`` Do n't look at her as if we were talking about her , '' she whispered softly ; -- `` that is Elsie Venner . '' 
`` What do you want of me , Elsie Venner ? '' 
`` Where did you get that flower , Elsie ? '' 
`` Where it grew , '' said Elsie Venner . 
The teacher could not refuse her . 
The girl 's finger-tips touched hers as she took it . 
Then , after a pause , -- `` Elsie made him come , I guess . 
It was hard to say what could have brought Elsie Venner to the party . 
Hardly anybody seemed to know her , and she seemed not at all disposed to make acquaintances . 
Here and there was one of the older girls from the Institute , but she appeared to have nothing in common with them . 
Even in the school-room , it may be remembered , she sat apart by her own choice , and now in the midst of the crowd she made a circle of isolation round herself . 
Drawing her arm out of her father 's , she stood against the wall , and looked , with a strange , cold glitter in her eyes , at the crowd which moved and babbled before her . 
The old Doctor came up to her by-and-by . 
`` Well , Elsie , I am quite surprised to find you here . 
`` It 's been dull at the mansion-house , '' she said , `` and I wanted to get out of it . 
The Doctor laughed good-naturedly , as if this were an amusing bit of pleasantry , -- but he lifted his head and dropped his eyes a little , so as to see her through his spectacles . 
She narrowed her lids slightly , as one often sees a sleepy cat narrow hers , -- somewhat as you may remember our famous Margaret used to , if you remember her at all , -- so that her eyes looked very small , but bright as the diamonds on her breast . 
Doctor Kittredge looked cloudy and worried while she was speaking , but forced a pleasant professional smile , as he said cheerily , and as if wishing to change the subject , -- `` Have a good dance this evening , Elsie . 
Presently , in one of the turns of the dance , he felt his eyes drawn to a figure he had not distinctly recognized , though he had dimly felt its presence , and saw that Elsie Venner was looking at him as if she saw nothing else but him . 
shouted the first violin , -- and Mr. Bernard found himself seized and whirled in a circle out of which he could not escape , and then forced to `` cross over , '' and then to `` dozy do , '' as the maestrohad it , -- and when , on getting back to his place , he looked for Elsie Venner , she was gone . 
Mr. Bernard had staid an hour or two , and left soon after he found that Elsie Venner and her father had disappeared . 
`` Elsie there ? 
She was , for an hour or so . 
I meant to have spoken to her , but she slipped away before I knew it . '' 
`` I thought she meant to go to the party , '' said Miss Darley . 
`` Did she look at you ? '' 
`` She did . 
`` And you did not speak to her ? '' 
I should have spoken to her , but she was gone when I looked for her . 
Is n't there an odd sort of fascination about her ? 
What does she come to this school for ? 
She seems to do pretty much as she likes about studying . '' 
`` It was a fancy of hers to come , and they let her have her way . 
I do n't know what there is about her , except that she seems to take my life out of me when she looks at me . 
I do n't like to ask other people about our girls . 
She says very little to anybody , and studies , or makes believe to study , almost what she likes . 
I do n't know what she is , '' -LRB- Miss Darley laid her hand , trembling , on the young master 's sleeve , -RRB- `` but I can tell when she is in the room without seeing or hearing her . 
Oh , Mr. Langdon , I am weak and nervous , and no doubt foolish , -- but -- if there were women now , as in the days of our Saviour , possessed of devils , I should think there was something not human looking out of Elsie Venner 's eyes ! '' 
Except this room , and the chamber where he slept , and the servants ' wing , the rest of the house was all Elsie 's . 
She was always a restless , wandering child from her early years , and would have her little bed moved from one chamber to another , -- flitting round as the fancy took her . 
Sometimes she would drag a mat and a pillow into one of the great empty rooms , and , wrapping herself in a shawl , coil up and go to sleep in a corner . 
Nothing frightened her ; the `` haunted '' chamber , with the torn hangings that flapped like wings when there was air stirring , was one of her favorite retreats . 
She had been a very hard creature to manage . 
Her father could influence , but not govern her . 
Elsie was alone in the room , dancing one of those wild Moorish fandangos , such as a matadorhot from the Plaza de Torosof Seville or Madrid might love to lie and gaze at . 
The dancing frenzy must have seized upon her while she was dressing ; for she was in her bodice , bare-armed , her hair floating unbound far below the waist of her barred or banded skirt . 
She had caught up her castanets , and rattled them as she danced with a kind of passionate fierceness , her lithe body undulating with flexuous grace , her diamond eyes glittering , her round arms wreathing and unwinding , alive and vibrant to the tips of the slender fingers . 
Some passion seemed to exhaust itself in this dancing paroxysm ; for all at once she reeled from the middle of the floor , and flung herself , as it were in a careless coil , upon a great tiger 's - skin which was spread out in one corner of the apartment . 
The old Doctor stood motionless , looking at her as she lay panting on the tawny , black-lined robe of the dead monster , which stretched out beneath her , its rude flattened outline recalling the Terror of the Jungle as he crouched for his fatal spring . 
In a few moments her head drooped upon her arm , and her glittering eyes closed , -- she was sleeping . 
He stood looking at her still , steadily , thoughtfully , tenderly . 
This boy had passed several of his early years at the Dudley mansion , the playmate of Elsie , being her cousin , two or three years older than herself , the son of Captain Richard Venner , a South American trader , who , as he changed his residence often , was glad to leave the boy in his brother 's charge . 
Such antecedents may have helped to make little Dick Venner a self-willed , capricious boy , and a rough playmate for Elsie . 
Elsie was the wilder of the two . 
Old Sophy , who used to watch them with those quick , animal-looking eyes of hers , -- she was said to be the granddaughter of a cannibal chief , and inherited the keen senses belonging to all creatures which are hunted as game , -- Old Sophy , who watched them in their play and their quarrels , always seemed to be more afraid for the boy than the girl . 
Elsie 's father , whose fault was to indulge her in everything , found that it would never do to let these children grow up together . 
Elsie was half pleased and half sorry to have him go ; the children had a kind of mingled liking and hate for each other , just such as is very common among relations . 
Sometimes she would seem to be fond of him , and the parent 's heart would yearn within him as she twined her supple arms about him ; and then some look she gave him , some half-articulated expression , would turn his cheek pale and almost make him shiver , and he would say kindly , `` Now go , Elsie , dear , '' and smile upon her as she went , and close and lock the door softly after her . 
`` A game little devil she was , sure enough ! '' 
Elsie professed to be pleased with the thought of having an adventurous young stranger , with stories to tell , an inmate of their quiet , not to say dull , family . 
Under almost any other circumstances , her father would have been unwilling to take a young fellow of whom he knew so little under his roof ; but this was his nephew , and anything that seemed like to amuse or please Elsie was agreeable to him . 
He had grown almost desperate , and felt as if any change in the current of her life and feelings might save her from some strange paroxysm of dangerous mental exaltation or sullen perversion of disposition , from which some fearful calamity might come to herself or others . 
He was so dark , partly from his descent , partly from long habits of exposure , that Elsie looked almost fair beside him . 
He had something of the family beauty which belonged to his cousin , but his eye had a fierce passion in it , very unlike the cold glitter of Elsie 's . 
Elsie was to his fancy . 
With Elsie , he was subdued and almost tender in his manner ; with the few visitors whom they saw , shy and silent , -- perhaps a little watchful , if any young man happened to be among them . 
He had tried making downright love to Elsie , with no great success as yet , in his own opinion . 
They were sitting alone in the study one day ; Elsie had round her neck that somewhat peculiar ornament , the golden torque , which she had worn to the great party . 
Dick was seized with a great passion for examining this curious chain , and , after some preliminary questions , was rash enough to lean towards her and put out his hand toward the neck that lay in the golden coil . 
She threw her head back , her eyes narrowing and her forehead drawing down so that Dick thought her head actually flattened itself . 
He started involuntarily ; for she looked so like the little girl who had struck him with those sharp flashing teeth , that the whole scene came back , and he felt the stroke again as if it had just been given , and the two white scars began to sting as they did after the old Doctor had burned them with that stick of gray caustic , which looked so like a slate pencil , and felt so much like the end of a red-hot poker . 
Thither drove also a sagacious-looking , middle-aged man , who entered his name as `` W. Thompson '' in the book at the office immediately after that of `` R. Venner . '' 
That must be the cousin of Elsie 's who wants to marry her , they say . 
He looked at Elsie , instinctively , involuntarily . 
She had another such flower on her breast . 
`` It 's all for Elsie 's sake , '' said Miss Thornton ; `` I feel quite sure of that . 
He never does anything that is not meant for her in some way . 
I suppose it amuses her to have her cousin about the house . 
Perhaps Dudley is right , if it pleases her to have a companion . 
What will happen , though , if he makes love to her ? 
Will Elsie be easily taken with such a fellow ? 
Elsie is not like anybody else . 
The girls who have seen most of her think she hates men , all but ` Dudley , ' as she calls her father . 
Some of them doubt whether she loves him . 
They doubt whether she can love anything human , except perhaps the old black woman who has taken care of her since she was a baby . 
The village people have the strangest stories about her : you know what they call her ? '' 
`` I remember her mother , '' he said , `` so well ! 
Elsie has something of her in her look , but those are not her mother 's eyes . 
They were dark , but soft , as in all I ever saw of her race . 
I do n't know what there is about Elsie 's , -- but do you know , my dear , I find myself curiously influenced by them ? 
I have had to face a good many sharp eyes and hard ones , -- murderers ' eyes and pirates ' , -- men who had to be watched in the bar , where they stood on trial , for fear they should spring on the prosecuting officers like tigers , -- but I never saw such eyes as Elsie 's ; and yet they have a kind of drawing virtue or power about them , -- I do n't know what else to call it : have you never observed this ? '' 
Why , of course , nobody could be with Elsie Venner and not observe it . 
There are a good many other strange things about her : did you ever notice how she dresses ? '' 
`` I suppose she dresses as she likes , and sends to the city for what she wants . 
`` You never noticed the colors and patterns of her dresses ? 
You never remarked anything curious about her ornaments ? 
Elsie Venner has a strange taste in dress , let me tell you . 
She sends for the oddest patterns of stuffs , and picks out the most curious things at the jeweller 's , whenever she goes to town with her father . 
They say the old Doctor tells him to let her have her way about all such matters . 
Afraid of her mind , if she is contradicted , I suppose . 
-- You 've heard about her going to school at that place , -- the ` Institoot , ' as those people call it ? 
They say she 's bright enough in her way , -- has studied at home , you know , with her father a good deal , -- knows some modern languages and Latin , I believe : at any rate , she would have it so , -- she must go to the ` Institoot . ' 
I wonder what they 'll make of Elsie , between them ! '' 
Elsie loved riding , -- and would go off with him on a gallop now and then . 
He was a master of all those strange Indian horseback-feats which shame the tricks of the circus-riders , and used to astonish and almost amuse her sometimes by disappearing from his saddle , like a phantom horseman , lying flat against the side of the bounding creature that bore him , as if he were a hunting leopard with his claws in the horse 's flank and flattening himself out against his heaving ribs . 
Elsie knew a little Spanish too , which she had learned from the young person who had taught her dancing , and Dick enlarged her vocabulary with a few soft phrases , and would sing her a song sometimes , touching the air upon an ancient-looking guitar they had found with the ghostly things in the garret , -- a quaint old instrument , marked E. M. on the back , and supposed to have belonged to a certain Elizabeth Mascarene , before mentioned in connection with a work of art , -- a fair , dowerless lady , who smiled and sung and faded away , unwedded , a hundred years ago , as dowerless ladies , not a few , are smiling and singing and fading now , -- God grant each of them His love , -- and one human heart as its interpreter ! 
As for school , Elsie went or stayed away as she liked . 
Sometimes , when they thought she was at her desk in the great school-room , she would be on The Mountain , -- alone always . 
Dick wanted to go with her , but she would never let him . 
Once , when she had followed the zigzag path a little way up , she looked back and caught a glimpse of him following her . 
She turned and passed him without a word , but giving him a look which seemed to make the scars on his wrist tingle , went to her room , where she locked herself up , and did not come out again till evening , -- Old Sophy having brought her food , and set it down , not speaking , but looking into her eyes inquiringly , like a dumb beast trying to feel out his master 's will in his face . 
Elsie 's pillow was unpressed that night , but she had not been missed by the household , -- for Dick knew enough to keep his own counsel . 
The next morning she avoided him and went off early to school . 
He heard a light breathing close to his ear , and , half turning , saw the face of Elsie Venner , looking motionless into the reptile 's eyes , which had shrunk and faded under the stronger enchantment of her own . 
The more common version of the trouble at the mansion-house was this : -- Elsie was not exactly in her right mind . 
Her temper was singular , her tastes were anomalous , her habits were lawless , her antipathies were many and intense , and she was liable to explosions of ungovernable anger . 
At nearly fifteen years old , when she was growing fast , and in an irritable state of mind and body , she had had a governess placed over her for whom she had conceived an aversion . 
It was whispered among a few who knew more of the family secrets than others , that , worried and exasperated by the presence and jealous oversight of this person , Elsie had attempted to get finally rid of her by unlawful means , such as young girls have been known to employ in their straits , and to which the sex at all ages has a certain instinctive tendency , in preference to more palpable instruments for the righting of its wrongs . 
Old Sophy had taken her master into a room apart , and said a few words to him which turned him as white as a sheet . 
It is proper to say , that , during the following days , the most thorough search was made in every nook and cranny of those parts of the house which Elsie chiefly haunted , but nothing was found which might be accused of having been the intentional cause of the probably accidental sudden illness of the governess . 
From this time forward her father was never easy . 
Should he keep her apart , or shut her up , for fear of risk to others , and so lose every chance of restoring her mind to its healthy tone by kindly influences and intercourse with wholesome natures ? 
There was no proof , only presumption , as to the agency of Elsie in the matter referred to . 
The old Doctor often came in , in the kindest , most natural sort of way , got into pleasant relations with Elsie by always treating her in the same easy manner as at the great party , encouraging all her harmless fancies , and rarely reminding her that he was a professional adviser , except when she came out of her own accord , as in the talk they had at the party , telling him of some wild trick she had been playing . 
`` Let her go to the girls ' school , by all means , '' said the Doctor , when she had begun to talk about it . 
So , when Cousin Richard came along , the Doctor , though he did not like his looks any too well , told her father to encourage his staying for a time . 
If she liked him , it was good ; if she only tolerated him , it was better than nothing . 
He thought Elsie rather liked having him about the house for a while . 
She was very capricious , -- acted as if she fancied him one day and disliked him the next . 
He did not know , -- but sometimes thought that this nephew of his might take a serious liking to Elsie . 
Elsie was naturally what they call a man-hater , and there was very little danger of any sudden passion springing up between two such young persons . 
Let him stay awhile ; it gives her something to think about . 
It was evident enough that they had an abundant income , from the way in which Elsie 's caprices were indulged . 
She had horses and carriages to suit herself ; she sent to the great city for everything she wanted in the way of dress . 
Even her diamonds -- and the young man knew something about these gems -- must be of considerable value ; and yet she wore them carelessly , as it pleased her fancy . 
He struck the balance , and came to the conclusion that he would fall in love with Elsie Venner . 
On the contrary , the moment Mr. Richard had made up his mind that he should fall in love with Elsie , he began to be more reserved with her , and to try to make friends in other quarters . 
She had nothing in the world to do but to watch Elsie ; she had nothing to care for but this girl and her father . 
She had never liked Dick too well ; for he used to make faces at her and tease her when he was a boy , and now he was a man there was something about him -- she could not tell what -- that made her suspicious of him . 
It was no small matter to get her over to his side . 
In the mean time the strange adventure on The Mountain had brought the young master into new relations with Elsie . 
She had led him out of danger ; perhaps saved him from death by the strange power she exerted . 
He was sure that he was led softly away from the place , and that it was Elsie who had led him . 
But between these recollections came a strange confusion ; and the more the master thought , the more he was perplexed to know whether she had waked him , sleeping , as he sat on the stone , from some frightful dream , such as may come in a very brief slumber , or whether she had bewitched him into a trance with those strange eyes of hers , or whether it was all true , and he must solve its problem as he best might . 
As Cousin Richard Venner , the person in question , passed them , he took the measure , so to speak , of Mr. Bernard , with a look so piercing , so exhausting , so practised , so profoundly suspicious , that the young master felt in an instant that he had an enemy in this handsome youth , -- an enemy , too , who was like to be subtle and dangerous . 
Mr. Bernard had made up his mind , that , come what might , enemy or no enemy , live or die , he would solve the mystery of Elsie Venner , sooner or later . 
Some rumors which had reached him about the supposed suitor of Elsie Venner , who was thought to be a desperate kind of fellow , and whom some believed to be an unscrupulous adventurer , added a curious , romantic kind of interest to the course of physiological and psychological inquiries he was about instituting . 
`` Do you know much about the Venner family ? '' 
-- `` What is there you notice out of the way about Elsie Venner ? '' 
`` She shuns all the other girls . 
Elsie would have been burned for a witch in old times . 
I have seen the girl look at Miss Darley when she had not the least idea of it , and all at once I would see her grow pale and moist , and sigh , and move round uneasily , and turn towards Elsie , and perhaps get up and go to her , or else have slight spasmodic movements that looked like hysterics ; -- do you believe in the evil eye , Doctor ? '' 
`` Mr. Langdon , '' the Doctor said , solemnly , `` there are strange things about Elsie Venner , -- very strange things . 
`` I have suspected , '' he said , -- `` I have had a kind of feeling -- that she -- Well , come , Doctor , -- I do n't know that there 's any use in disguising the matter , -- I have thought Elsie Venner had rather a fancy for somebody else , -- I mean myself . '' 
Do you find yourself disposed to take a special interest in Elsie , -- to fall in love with her , in a word ? 
`` Elsie interests me , '' said the young man , `` interests me strangely . 
There are other eyes on you beside Elsie Venner 's . 
Her name is Elsie V. , and she is the only daughter and heiress of an old family in this place . 
Philip , I do n't know what to say about this Elsie . 
There is something about her I have not fathomed . 
The old woman told the whole story of Elsie , of her birth , of her peculiarities of person and disposition , of the passionate fears and hopes with which her father had watched the course of her development . 
She recounted all her strange ways , from the hour when she first tried to crawl across the carpet , and her father 's look as she worked her way towards him . 
With the memory of Juliet 's nurse she told the story of her teething , and how , the woman to whose breast she had clung dying suddenly about that time , they had to struggle hard with the child before she would learn the accomplishment of feeding with a spoon . 
He wanted to marry our poor Elsie , and Elsie hated him , and sometimes she would look at him over her shoulder just as she used to look at that woman she hated ; and she , old Sophy , could n't sleep for thinking she should hear a scream from the white chamber some night and find him in spasms such as that woman came so near dying with . 
And then there was something about Elsie she did not know what to make of : she would sit and hang her head sometimes , and look as if she were dreaming ; and she brought home books they said a young gentleman up at the great school lent her : and once she heard her whisper in her sleep , and she talked as young girls do to themselves when they 're thinking about somebody they have a liking for and think nobody knows it . 
She finished her long story at last . 
He sat still even when she had done speaking , -- still , and lost in thought . 
Mr. Fairweather had been settled in the place only about ten years , and , if he had heard a strange hint now and then about Elsie , had never considered it as anything more than idle and ignorant , if not malicious , village-gossip . 
All that he fully understood was that this had been a perverse and unmanageable child , and that the extraordinary care which had been bestowed on her had been so far thrown away that she was a dangerous , self-willed girl , whom all feared and almost all shunned , as if she carried with her some malignant influence . 
He replied , therefore , after hearing the story , that Elsie had always given trouble . 
There seemed to be a kind of natural obliquity about her . 
Had sent her good books from the Sunday-school library . 
Remembered that she tore out the frontispiece of one of them , and kept it , and flung the book out of the window . 
It was a picture of Eve 's temptation ; and he recollected her saying that Eve was a good woman , -- and she 'd have done just so , if she 'd been there . 
But I really do n't know how to condemn this poor Elsie ; she may have impulses that act in her like instincts in the lower animals , and so not come under the bearing of our ordinary rules of judgment . '' 
Besides , this perversion itself may often be disease , bad habits transmitted , like drunkenness , or some hereditary misfortune , as with this Elsie we were talking about . '' 
He turned the conversation again upon Elsie , and endeavored to make her minister feel the importance of bringing every friendly influence to bear upon her at this critical period of her life . 
Therewas nobody , then , to counsel poor Elsie , except her father , who had learned to let her have her own way so as not to disturb such relations as they had together , and the old black woman , who had a real , though limited influence over the girl . 
There were particular times when Elsie was in such a mood that it must have been a bold person who would have intruded upon her with reproof or counsel . 
`` This is one of her days , '' old Sophy would say quietly to her father , and he would , as far as possible , leave her to herself . 
These days were more frequent , as old Sophy 's keen , concentrated watchfulness had taught her , at certain periods of the year . 
In winter , on the other hand , she was less excitable , and even at times heavy and as if chilled and dulled in her sensibilities . 
It was a strange , paroxysmal kind of life that belonged to her . 
All winter long she would be comparatively quiet , easy to manage , listless , slow in her motions ; her eye would lose something of its strange lustre ; and the old nurse would feel so little anxiety , that her whole expression and aspect would show the change , and people would say to her , `` Why , Sophy , how young you 're looking ! '' 
As the spring came on , Elsie would leave the fireside , have her tiger-skin spread in the empty southern chamber next the wall , and lie there basking for whole hours in the sunshine . 
As the season warmed , the light would kindle afresh in her eyes , and the old woman 's sleep would grow restless again , -- for she knew , that , so long as the glitter was fierce in the girl 's eyes , there was no trusting her impulses or movements . 
At last , when the veins of the summer were hot and swollen , and the juices of all the poison-plants and the blood of all the creatures that feed upon them had grown thick and strong , -- about the time when the second mowing was in hand , and the brown , wet-faced men were following up the scythes as they chased the falling waves of grass , -LRB- falling as the waves fall on sickle-curved beaches ; the foam-flowers dropping as the grass-flowers drop , -- with sharp semivowel consonantal sounds , -- frsh , -- for that is the way the sea talks , and leaves all pure vowel-sounds for the winds to breathe over it , and all mutes to the unyielding earth , -RRB- -- about this time of over-ripe midsummer , the life of Elsie seemed fullest of its malign and restless instincts . 
But Elsie was never so much given to roaming over The Mountain as at this season ; and as she had grown more absolute and uncontrollable , she was as like to take the night as the day for her rambles . 
At this season , too , all her peculiar tastes in dress and ornament came out in a more striking way than at other times . 
She was never so superb as then , and never so threatening in her scowling beauty . 
The barred skirts she always fancied showed sharply beneath her diaphanous muslins ; the diamonds often glittered on her breast as if for her own pleasure rather than to dazzle others ; the asp-like bracelet hardly left her arm . 
She was never seen without some necklace , -- either the golden cord she wore at the great party , or a chain of mosaics , or simply a ring of golden scales . 
Some said that Elsie always slept in a necklace , and that when she died she was to be buried in one . 
Nobody watched Elsie with a more searching eye than her cousin , Dick Venner . 
He had kept more out of her way of late , it is true , but there was not a movement she made which he did not carefully observe just so far as he could without exciting her suspicion . 
It was plain enough to him that the road to fortune was before him , and that the first thing was to marry Elsie . 
What course he should take with her , or with others interested , after marrying her , need not be decided in a hurry . 
The people employed about the house and farmlands had little to do with Elsie , except to obey her without questioning her commands . 
Only one life between Elsie and her fortune , -- and lives are so uncertain ! 
In short , he must have the property , and Elsie Venner , as she was to go with it , -- and then , if he found it convenient and agreeable to lead a virtuous life , he would settle down and raise children and vegetables ; but if he found it inconvenient and disagreeable , so much the worse for those who made it so . 
One thing Mr. Richard could not conceal from himself : Elsie had some new cause of indifference , at least , if not of aversion to him . 
What makes you think she 's in love with him ? 
Met her walking with him . 
Do n't like her looks and ways ; -- she 's thinking about something , anyhow . 
Where does she get those books she is reading so often ? 
If I could have ten minutes ' peep into her chamber now , I would find out where she got them , and what mischief she was up to . '' 
At that instant , as if some tributary demon had heard his wish , a shape which could be none but Elsie 's flitted through a gleam of moonlight into the shadow of the trees . 
She was setting out on one of her midnight rambles . 
The chamber he slept in was over the room which Elsie chiefly occupied at this season . 
There was no great risk of his being seen or heard , if he ventured down-stairs to her apartment . 
He stole carefully down the stair , and arrived safely at the door of Elsie 's room . 
Then he threw the loose end out of the window so that it should hang by the open casement of Elsie 's room . 
By this he let himself down opposite her window , and with a slight effort swung himself inside the room . 
Elsie 's room was almost as peculiar as her dress and ornaments . 
Crows ' nests , which are never found but in the tall trees , commonly enough in the forks of ancient hemlocks , eggs of rare birds , which must have taken a quick eye and a hard climb to find and get hold of , mosses and ferns of unusual aspect , and quaint monstrosities of vegetable growth , such as Nature delights in , showed that Elsie had her tastes and fancies like any naturalist or poet . 
Nature , when left to her own freaks in the forest , is grotesque and fanciful to the verge of license , and beyond it . 
But to Nature 's tricks with boughs and roots and smaller vegetable growths there is no end . 
Her fancy is infinite , and her humor not always refined . 
There is a perpetual reminiscence of animal life in her rude caricatures , which sometimes actually reach the point of imitating the complete human figure , as in that extraordinary specimen which nobody will believe to be genuine , except the men of science , and of which the discreet reader may have a glimpse by application in the proper quarter . 
Elsie had gathered so many of these sculpture-like monstrosities , that one might have thought she had robbed old Sophy 's grandfather of his fetishes . 
They helped to give her room a kind of enchanted look , as if a witch had her home in it . 
An envelope was on the table with Elsie 's name written in a similar hand ; but the envelope was empty , and he could not find the note it contained . 
Elsie had been reasonably careful . 
She had locked up her papers , whatever they might be . 
There was a clasp-Bible among her books . 
Dick wondered if she ever unclasped it . 
There was a book of hymns ; it had her name in it , and looked as if it might have been often read ; -- what the diablohad Elsie to do with hymns ? 
As soon as Dick had satisfied himself that the young schoolmaster was his rival in Elsie 's good graces , his whole thoughts concentrated themselves more than ever on accomplishing his great design of securing her for himself . 
He must come into closer relations with her , so as to withdraw her thoughts from this fellow , and to find out more exactly what was the state of her affections , if she had any . 
So he began to court her company again , to propose riding with her , to sing to her , to join her whenever she was strolling about the grounds , to make himself agreeable , according to the ordinary understanding of that phrase , in every way which seemed to promise a chance for succeeding in that amiable effort . 
Whether Elsie saw into his object or not was more than he could tell . 
His idea was , after having conciliated the good-will of all about her as far as possible , to make himself first a habit and then a necessity with the girl , -- not to spring any trap of a declaration upon her until tolerance had grown into such a degree of inclination as her nature was like to admit . 
Had Elsie been like other girls , her father might have been less willing to entertain a young fellow like Dick as an inmate ; but he had long outgrown all the slighter apprehensions which he might have had in common with all parents , and followed rather than led the imperious instincts of his daughter . 
He had been so long in the habit of looking at Elsie as outside of all common influences and exceptional in the law of her nature , that it was difficult for him to think of her as a girl to be fallen in love with . 
But in this case there were special reasons , in addition to the common family delusion , -- reasons which seemed to make it impossible that she should attract a suitor . 
Who would dareto marry Elsie ? 
No , let her have the pleasure , if it was one , at any rate the wholesome excitement , of companionship ; it might save her from lapsing into melancholy or a worse form of madness . 
Dudley Venner had a kind of superstition , too , that , if Elsie could only outlive three septenaries , twenty-one years , so that , according to the prevalent idea , her whole frame would have been thrice made over , counting from her birth , she would revert to the natural standard of health of mind and feelings from which she had been so long perverted . 
The thought of any other motive than love being sufficient to induce Richard to become her suitor had not occurred to him . 
He had often thought whether , in case of Elsie 's dying or being necessarily doomed to seclusion , he might not adopt this nephew and make him his heir ; but it had not occurred to him that Richard might wish to become his son-in-law for the sake of his property . 
Some were of opinion that the great mistake was in not `` breaking her will '' when she was a little child . 
The father of Elsie Venner knew his duties and his difficulties too well to trouble himself about anything others might think or say . 
So soon as he found that he could not govern his child , he gave his life up to following her and protecting her as far as he could . 
He became accustomed to all Elsie 's strange looks and ways . 
Old Sophy dressed her with ruffles round her neck , and hunted up the red coral branch with silver bells which the little toothless Dudleys had bitten upon for a hundred years . 
By an infinite effort , her father forced himself to become the companion of this child , for whom he had such a mingled feeling , but whose presence was always a trial to him and often a terror . 
Elsie grew up with a kind of filial feeling for him , such as her nature was capable of . 
Commands , threats , punishments , were out of the question with her ; the mere physical effects of crossing her will betrayed themselves in such changes of expression and manner that it would have been senseless to attempt to govern her in any such way . 
Leaving her mainly to herself , she could be to some extent indirectly influenced , -- not otherwise . 
She called her father `` Dudley , '' as if he had been her brother . 
What wonder , therefore , that ignorant and shallow persons laid the blame on her father of those peculiarities which were freely talked about , -- of those darker tendencies which were hinted of in whispers ? 
It was understood between Dudley Venner and old Doctor Kittredge that Elsie was a subject of occasional medical observation , on account of certain mental peculiarities which might end in a permanent affection of her reason . 
But Dudley Venner had studied Elsie 's case in the light of all the books he could find which might do anything towards explaining it . 
So it was he came to cherish those two fancies before alluded to : that the ominous birth-mark she had carried from infancy might fade and become obliterated , and that the age of complete maturity might be signalized by an entire change in her physical and mental state . 
But he was singularly unsuspicious , and his natural kindness was an additional motive to the wish for introducing some variety into the routine of Elsie 's life . 
But it was an encouragement to try him again , and the consequence had been that he had received a number of notes inviting him to various smaller entertainments , which , as neither he nor Elsie had any fancy for them , he had politely declined . 
After much consideration the list reduced itself to the following names : Mr. Richard Venner and Mrs. Blanche Creamer , the lady at whose house she had met him , -- mansion-house breed , -- but will come , -- soft on Dick ; Dudley Venner , -- take care of him herself ; Elsie , -- Dick will see to her , -- wo n't it fidget the Creamer woman to see him round her ? 
In this case there was room for doubt , -- mainly as to whether Elsie would take a fancy to come or not . 
If she should come , her father would certainly be with her . 
Dick had promised , and thought he could bring Elsie . 
The others she felt sure of , -- all but the old Doctor , -- he might have some horrid patient or other to visit ; tell him Elsie Venner 's going to be there , -- he always likes to have an eye on her , they say , -- oh , he 'd come fast enough , without any more coaxing . 
It was odd , but she was afraid of Elsie . 
She felt as if she should be safe enough , if the old Doctor were there to see to the girl ; and then she should have leisure to devote herself more freely to the young lady 's father , for whom all her sympathies were in a state of lively excitement . 
It was all right now ; -- Blanche was married and so forth ; Letty was a child ; Elsie was his daughter ; Helen Darley was a nice , worthy drudge , -- poor thing ! 
`` Here 's a note for us , Elsie , '' said her father , as they sat round the breakfast-table . 
It was one of `` Elsie 's days , '' as Old Sophy called them . 
I suppose you do n't care about going , Elsie ? '' 
Elsie looked up in her father 's face with an expression which he knew but too well . 
She was just in the state which the plain sort of people call `` contrary , '' when they have to deal with it in animals . 
She would insist on going to that tea-party ; he knew it just as well before she spoke as after she had spoken . 
If Dick had said he wanted to go and her father had seconded his wishes , she would have insisted on staying at home . 
It was no great matter , her father said to himself , after all ; very likely it would amuse her ; the Widow was a lively woman enough , -- perhaps a little comme il ne faut passocially , compared with the Thorntons and some other families ; but what did he care for these petty village distinctions ? 
Elsie spoke . 
At the leftof the Hostess , Bernard Langdon , next him Letty Forrester , next Letty Mr. Richard Venner , next him Elsie , and so to the Reverend Doctor again . 
Dick would amuse himself with his cousin Elsie . 
Elsie 's father ! 
She looked into his dark eyes , as she listened to him , to see if they had any glimmer of that peculiar light , diamond-bright , but cold and still , which she knew so well in Elsie 's . 
Never was there more tenderness , it seemed to her , than in the whole look and expression of Elsie 's father . 
Knowing what Elsie must be to him , how hard she must make any parent 's life , Helen could not but be struck with the interest Mr. Dudley Venner showed in her as his daughter 's instructress . 
Elsie meantime had been silent , with that singular , still , watchful look which those who knew her well had learned to fear . 
Her head just a little inclined on one side , perfectly motionless for whole minutes , her eyes seeming to grow small and bright , as always when she was under her evil influence , she was looking obliquely at the young girl on the other side of her cousin Dick and next to Bernard Langdon . 
As for Dick himself , she seemed to be paying very little attention to him . 
Sometimes her eyes would wander off to Mr. Bernard , and their expression , as old Dr. Kittredge , who watched her for a while pretty keenly , noticed , would change perceptibly . 
One would have said that she looked with a kind of dull hatred at the girl , but with a half-relenting reproachful anger at Mr. Bernard . 
Miss Letty Forrester , at whom Elsie had been looking from time to time in this fixed way , was conscious meanwhile of some unusual influence . 
First it was a feeling of constraint , -- then , as it were , a diminished power over the muscles , as if an invisible elastic cobweb were spinning round her , -- then a tendency to turn away from Mr. Bernard , who was making himself very agreeable , and look straight into those eyes which would not leave her , and which seemed to be drawing her towards them , while at the same time they chilled the blood in all her veins . 
Mr. Bernard saw this influence coming over her . 
All at once he noticed that she sighed , and that some little points of moisture began to glisten on her forehead . 
But she did not grow pale perceptibly ; she had no involuntary or hysteric movements ; she still listened to him and smiled naturally enough . 
Perhaps she was only nervous at being stared at . 
At any rate , she was coming under some unpleasant influence or other , and Mr. Bernard had seen enough of the strange impression Elsie sometimes produced to wish this young girl to be relieved from it , whatever it was . 
He turned toward Elsie and looked at her in such a way as to draw her eyes upon him . 
At one instant he thought he could not sit where he was ; he must go and speak to Elsie . 
But he was determined to look her down , and he believed he could do it , for he had seen her countenance change more than once when he had caught her gaze steadily fixed on him . 
Presently she changed color slightly , -- lifted her head , which was inclined a little to one side , -- shut and opened her eyes two or three times , as if they had been pained or wearied , -- and turned away baffled , and shamed , as it would seem , and shorn for the time of her singular and formidable or at least evil-natured power of swaying the impulses of those around her . 
Of course the school-master had been trying to make Elsie jealous , and had succeeded . 
Estates like the Dudley property were not to be had every day , and no doubt the Yankee usher was willing to take some pains to make sure of Elsie . 
Does n't Elsie look savage ? 
Dick involuntarily moved his chair a little away from her , and thought he felt a pricking in the small white scars on his wrist . 
But dark as the Widow looked in her half-concealed pet , she was but as a pale shadow , compared to Elsie in her silent concentration of shame and anger . 
Elsie had got away by herself , and was taken up in studying the stereoscopic Laocoön . 
He was on the point of expressing himself very frankly to the Doctor , with that benevolent smile on his face which had sometimes come near giving offence to the readers of the `` Vinegar '' edition , but he saw that the physician 's attention had been arrested by Elsie . 
He looked in the same direction himself , and could not help being struck by her attitude and expression . 
There was something singularly graceful in the curves of her neck and the rest of her figure , but she was so perfectly still that it seemed as if she were hardly breathing . 
He had often noticed their brilliancy , but now it seemed to him that they appeared dull , and the look on her features was as of some passion which had missed its stroke . 
Mr. Bernard 's companion seemed unconscious that she was the object of this attention , and was listening to the young master as if he had succeeded in making himself very agreeable . 
The school-master meant to make Elsie jealous , -- and he had done it . 
That 's it : get her savage first , and then come wheedling round her , -- a sure trick , if he is n't headed off somehow . 
But Dick saw well enough that he had better let Elsie alone just now , and thought the best way of killing the evening would be to amuse himself in a little lively talk with Mrs. Blanche Creamer , and incidentally to show Elsie that he could make himself acceptable to other women , if not to herself . 
The Doctor presently went up to Elsie , determined to engage her in conversation and get her out of her thoughts , which he saw , by her look , were dangerous . 
At ten o'clock the Reverend Doctor called Miss Letty , who had no idea it was so late ; Mr. Bernard gave his arm to Helen ; Mr. Richard saw to Mrs. Blanche Creamer ; the Doctor gave Elsie a cautioning look , and went off alone , thoughtful ; Dudley Venner and his daughter got into their carriage and were whirled away . 
The idea had fully taken possession of his mind that a deep intrigue was going on which would end by bringing Elsie and the school-master into relations fatal to all his own hopes . 
If anything should happen to Elsie , it would be the most natural thing in the world that his uncle should adopt him , his nephew and only near relation , as his heir . 
It was in the probable growing relation between Elsie and the school-master . 
He could also very probably learn some facts about Elsie : whether the young man was in the habit of attending her on her way home from school ; whether she stayed about the school-room after the other girls had gone ; and any incidental matters of interest which might present themselves . 
For some days after this he followed Elsie at a long distance behind , to watch her until she got to the school-house . 
One day he saw Mr. Bernard join her : a mere accident , very probably , for it was only once this happened . 
She came on her homeward way alone , -- quite apart from the groups of girls who strolled out of the school-house yard in company . 
Sometimes she was behind them all , -- which was suggestive . 
Could she have stayed to meet the school-master ? 
If he could have smuggled himself into the school , he would have liked to watch her there , and see if there was not some understanding between her and the master which betrayed itself by look or word . 
Dick had a hideous , gnawing suspicion that somewhere in these deep shades the school-master might meet Elsie , whose evening wanderings he knew so well . 
Since the tea-party at the Widow Rowens 's , Elsie had been more fitful and moody than ever . 
It was the working of her jealousy against that young school-girl to whom the master had devoted himself for the sake of piquing the heiress of the Dudley mansion . 
Poor Elsie ! 
She never sang nor played . 
She never shaped her inner life in words : such utterance was as much denied to her nature as common articulate speech to the deaf mute . 
Watch her well by day and by night , Old Sophy ! 
watch her well ! 
or the long line of her honored name may close in shame , and the stately mansion of the Dudleys remain a hissing and a reproach till its roof is buried in its cellar ! 
It 's the young Missis , Doctor , -- it 's our Elsie , -- it 's the baby , as we use ' t ' call her , -- don ' you remember , Doctor ? 
Seventeen year ago , 'n' her poor mother cryin ' for her , -- ` Where is she ? 
where is she ? 
Let me see her ! ' 
-- 'n' how I run up-stairs , -- I could run then , -- 'n' got the coral necklace 'n' put it round her little neck , 'n' then showed her to her mother , -- 'n' how her mother looked at her , 'n' looked , 'n' then put out her poor thin fingers 'n' lifted the necklace , -- 'n' fell right back on her piller , as white as though she was laid out to bury ? '' 
`` Well , how has Elsie seemed of late ? '' 
Then she looked up at the Doctor so steadily and searchingly that the diamond eyes of Elsie herself could hardly have pierced more deeply . 
Dick wan 's to marry our Elsie , -- that 's what he wan 's ; 'n' he don ' love her , Doctor , -- he hates her , Doctor , as bad as I hate him ! 
He wan 's to marry our Elsie , 'n' live here in the big house , 'n' have nothin ' to do but jes ' lay still 'n' watch Massa Venner 'n' see how long ' t 'll take him to die , 'n' ' f he don ' die fas ' ` nuff , help him some way t ' die fasser ! 
Th ' minister , he come down 'n' prayed 'n' talked good , -- he 's a good man , that Doctor Honeywood , 'n' I tol ' him all ` bout our Elsie , -- but he didn ' tell nobody what to do to stop all what I been dreamin ' about happenin ' . 
`` Doctor , nobody mus 'n' never marry our Elsie 's long 's she lives ! 
Nobody mus 'n' never live with Elsie but Ol' Sophy ; 'n' Ol' Sophy wo n't never die 's long 's Elsie 's alive to be took care of . 
But I 's feared , Doctor , I 's greatly feared Elsie wan ' to marry somebody . 
The ' 's a young gen ` l 'm 'n up at that school where she go , -- so some of 'em tells me , -- 'n' she loves t ' see him 'n' talk wi ' him , 'n' she talks about him when she 's asleep sometimes . 
If she do , he die , certain ! '' 
`` If she has a fancy for the young man up at the school there , '' the Doctor said , `` I should n't think there would be much danger from Dick . '' 
`` Doctor , nobody know nothin ' ` bout Elsie but Ol' Sophy . 
If she ca 'n' marry one man ` cos she love him , she marry another man ` cos she hate him . '' 
`` Marry a man because she hates him , Sophy ? 
`` Who tol ' you Elsie was a woman , Doctor ? '' 
The old woman could not know much about Elsie that he did not know ; but what strange superstition had got into her head , he was puzzled to guess . 
He had better follow Sophy 's lead and find out what she meant . 
`` I should call Elsie a woman , and a very handsome one , '' he said . 
`` You do n't mean that she has any mark about her , except -- you know -- under the necklace ? '' 
`` I didn ' say she had nothin ' -- but jes ' that -- you know . 
My beauty have anything ugly ? 
She 's the beautifullest-shaped lady that ever had a shinin ' silk gown drawed over her shoulders . 
On ' y she a 'n' t like no other woman in none of her ways . 
He 's a very nice sort of young man , handsome , too , and I do n't much wonder Elsie takes to him . 
Tell me , Sophy , what do you think would happen , if he should chance to fall in love with Elsie , and she with him , and he should marry her ? '' 
`` But surely , Sophy , you a 'n' t afraid to have Dick marry her , if she would have him for any reason , are you ? 
Sophy answered , `` nobody can take care of hisself that live wi ' Elsie ! 
Nobody never in all this worl ' mus ' live wi ' Elsie but Ol' Sophy , I tell you . 
He wan 's to marry our Elsie so 's to live in the big house 'n' get all the money 'n' all the silver things 'n' all the chists full o ' linen 'n' beautiful clothes ! 
An ' he hates Elsie ` cos she don ' like him . 
But if he marry Elsie , she 'll make him die some wrong way or other , 'n' they 'll take her 'n' hang her , or he 'll get mad with her 'n' choke her . 
Dick means to have Elsie . 
If he ca 'n' get her , he never let nobody else have her . 
`` I should like to see him , Doctor , -- I should like to see the pooty gen ` l 'm 'n that my poor Elsie loves . 
She mus 'n' never marry nobody , -- but , oh , Doctor , I should like to see him , 'n' jes ' think a little how it would ha ' been , if the Lord hadn ' been so hard on Elsie . '' 
`` Oh , Massa Venner , he good man , but he don ' know nothin ' ` bout Elsie , as Ol' Sophy do . 
I keep close by her ; I help her when she go to bed , 'n' set by her sometime when she ` sleep ; I come to her in th ' mornin ' 'n' help her put on her things . '' 
-- Then , in a whisper , -- `` Doctor , Elsie lets Ol' Sophy take off that necklace for her . 
What you think she do , ' f anybody else tech it ? '' 
but not with her han 's , Doctor ! '' 
`` But you have n't told me , Sophy , what Mr. Dudley Venner thinks of his nephew , nor whether he has any notion that Dick wants to marry Elsie . '' 
He sort o ' broken-hearted , you know , -- sort o ' giv ' up , -- don ' know what to do wi ' Elsie , ` xcep ' say ` Yes , yes . ' 
One time I thought Massa Venner b ` lieve Dick was goin ' to take to Elsie ; but now he don ' seem to take much notice ; -- he kin ' o ' stupid-like ` bout sech things . 
I don ' think Massa Venner never been jes ' herself sence Elsie 's born . 
You men-folks don ' know nothin ' ` bout these young gals ; 'n' ' f you knowed all the young gals that ever lived , y ' wouldn ' know nothin ' ` bout our Elsie . '' 
I kin ' o ' think he don ' care for nothin ' in this world ` xcep ' jes ' t ' do what Elsie wan 's him to . 
The fus ' year after young Madam die he do nothin ' but jes ' set at the window 'n' look out at her grave , 'n' then come up 'n' look at the baby 's neck 'n' say , ` It 's fadin ' , Sophy , a 'n' t it ? ' 
I think he 's got religion , Doctor ; but he a 'n' t so bright about what 's goin ' on , 'n' I don ' believe he never suspec ' nothin ' till somethin' happens ; -- for the ' 's somethin' goin ' to happen , Doctor , if the Las ' Day doesn ' come to stop it ; 'n' you mus ' tell us what to do , 'n' save my poor Elsie , my baby that the Lord hasn ' took care of like all his other childer . '' 
He had failed as yet in getting any positive evidence that there was any relation between Elsie and the school-master other than such as might exist unsuspected and unblamed between a teacher and his pupil . 
And in the mean while he followed Elsie 's tastes as closely as he could , determined to make some impression upon her , -- to become a habit , a convenience , a necessity , -- whatever might aid him in the attainment of the one end which was now the aim of his life . 
It was to humor one of her tastes already known to the reader , that he said to her one morning , -- `` Come , Elsie , take your castanets , and let us have a dance . '' 
He had struck the right vein in the girl 's fancy , for she was in the mood for this exercise , and very willingly led the way into one of the more empty apartments . 
What there was in this particular kind of dance which excited her it might not be easy to guess ; but those who looked in with the old Doctor , on a former occasion , and saw her , will remember that she was strangely carried away by it , and became almost fearful in the vehemence of her passion . 
The sound of the castanets seemed to make her alive all over . 
Dick knew well enough what the exhibition would be , and was almost afraid of her at these moments ; for it was like the dancing mania of Eastern devotees , more than the ordinary light amusement of joyous youth , -- a convulsion of the body and the mind , rather than a series of voluntary modulated motions . 
Elsie rattled out the triple measure of a saraband . 
Her eyes began to glitter more brilliantly , and her shape to undulate in freer curves . 
Presently she noticed that Dick 's look was fixed upon her necklace . 
His face betrayed his curiosity ; he was intent on solving the question , why she always wore something about her neck . 
The chain of mosaics she had on at that moment displaced itself at every step , and he was peering with malignant , searching eagerness to see if an unsunned ring of fairer hue than the rest of the surface , or any less easily explained peculiarity , were hidden by her ornaments . 
She stopped suddenly , caught the chain of mosaics and settled it hastily in its place , flung down her castanets , drew herself back , and stood looking at him , with her head a little on one side , and her eyes narrowing in the way he had known so long and well . 
Elsie did not answer , but kept her eyes on him , full of malicious light . 
`` You would n't act so , if you were dancing with Mr. Langdon , -- would you , Elsie ? '' 
It was with some effort that he looked steadily at her to see the effect of his question . 
Elsie colored , -- not much , but still perceptibly . 
Dick could not remember that he had ever seen her show this mark of emotion before , in all his experience of her fitful changes of mood . 
It had a singular depth of significance , therefore , for him ; he knew how hardly her color came . 
Come , Elsie , you 've got the Dudley blood in your veins , and it does n't do for you to call this poor , sneaking school-master a gentleman ! '' 
Elsie 's bosom was heaving , the faint flush on her cheek was becoming a vivid glow . 
Elsie Venner loved Bernard Langdon . 
Elsie made no answer , but glided out of the room and slid away to her own apartment . 
She bolted the door and drew her curtains close . 
Then she threw herself on the floor , and fell into a dull , slow ache of passion , without tears , without words , almost without thoughts . 
So she remained , perhaps , for a half-hour , at the end of which time it seemed that her passion had become a sullen purpose . 
One of these represented the lifting of the brazen serpent . 
She took a hair-pin from one of her braids , and , insinuating its points under the edge of the tile , raised it from its place . 
A small leaden box lay under the tile , which she opened , and , taking from it a little white powder , which she folded in a scrap of paper , replaced the box and the tile over it . 
Whether Dick had by any means got a knowledge of this proceeding , or whether he only suspected some unmentionable design on her part , there is no sufficient means of determining . 
At any rate , when they met , an hour or two after these occurrences , he could not help noticing how easily she seemed to have got over her excitement . 
It was not Elsie 's way to come out of a fit of anger so easily as that . 
She had contrived some way of letting off her spite ; that was certain . 
Dick was pretty cunning , as Old Sophy had said , and , whether or not he had any means of knowing Elsie 's private intentions , watched her closely , and was on his guard against accidents . 
On coming to the dinnertable , that day , he complained of headache , took but little food , and refused the cup of coffee which Elsie offered him , saying that it did not agree with him when he had these attacks . 
Not only had this school-keeping wretch come between him and the scheme by which he was to secure his future fortune , but his image had so infected his cousin 's mind that she was ready to try on him some of those tricks which , as he had heard hinted in the village , she had once before put in practice upon a person who had become odious to her . 
Its occurrence would at once change the course of Elsie 's feelings , providing her with something to think of besides mischief , and remove the accursed obstacle which was thwarting all his own projects . 
He noticed that Elsie seemed a little nervous while she was rinsing some of the teacups before their removal . 
Elsie , no doubt , showed a kind of attraction towards him , as did perhaps some others ; but he had been perfectly discreet , and no father or brother or lover had any just cause of quarrel with him . 
To be sure , that dark young man at the Dudley mansion-house looked as if he were his enemy , when he had met him ; but certainly there was nothing in their relations to each other , or in his own to Elsie , that would be like to stir such malice in his mind as would lead him to play any of his wild Southern tricks at his , Mr. Bernard 's , expense . 
There is a little hymn-book I should like to have you give to Elsie from me ; -- it may be a kind of comfort to the poor girl . '' 
`` What 's the matter with your shoulder , Venner ? '' 
He imagined that there was a kind of friendly feeling between them , and he feared some crisis would be provoked in his daughter 's mental condition by the discovery . 
Everybody knew what had happened , excepting Elsie . 
Her father had charged them all to say nothing about it to her ; he would tell her , when she came down . 
He heard her step at last , -- a light , gliding step , -- so light that her coming was often unheard , except by those who perceived the faint rustle that went with it . 
She was paler than common this morning , as she came into her father 's study . 
After a few words of salutation , he said quietly , -- `` Elsie , my dear , your cousin Richard has left us . '' 
She grew still paler , as she asked , -- `` Is he dead ? '' 
Dudley Venner started to see the expression with which Elsie put this question . 
`` He is living , -- but dead to us from this day forward , '' said her father . 
He proceeded to tell her , in a general way , the story he had just heard from Abel . 
When he told of Dick 's attempt on the young school-master , -LRB- `` You know Mr. Langdon very well , Elsie , -- a perfectly inoffensive young man , as I understand , '' -RRB- Elsie turned her face away and slid along by the wall to the window which looked out on the little grass-plot with the white stone standing in it . 
Her father could not see her face , but he knew by her movements that her dangerous mood was on her . 
When she heard the sequel of the story , the discomfiture and capture of Dick , she turned round for an instant , with a look of contempt and of something like triumph upon her face . 
Her father saw that her cousin had become odious to her . 
He knew well , by every change of her countenance , by her movements , by every varying curve of her graceful figure , the transitions from passion to repose , from fierce excitement to the dull languor which often succeeded her threatening paroxysms . 
Elsie uttered a faint cry ; these were her special favorites , and often fed from her hand . 
She threw open the long window , sprang out , caught up the white fan-tail , and held it to her bosom . 
The bird stretched himself out , and then lay still , with open eyes , lifeless . 
She looked at him a moment , and , sliding in through the open window and through the study , sought her own apartment , where she locked herself in , and began to sob and moan like those that weep . 
But the gracious solace of tears seemed to be denied her , and her grief , like her anger , was a dull ache , longing , like that , to finish itself with a fierce paroxysm , but wanting its natural outlet . 
This seemingly trifling incident of the death of her favorite appeared to change all the current of her thought . 
Whether it were the sight of the dying bird , or the thought that her own agency might have been concerned in it , or some deeper grief , which took this occasion to declare itself , -- some dark remorse or hopeless longing , -- whatever it might be , there was an unwonted tumult in her soul . 
To whom should she go in her vague misery ? 
Only to Him who knows all His creatures ' sorrows , and listens to the faintest human cry . 
She knelt , as she had been taught to kneel from her childhood , and tried to pray . 
But her thoughts refused to flow in the language of supplication . 
She could not plead for herself as other women plead in their hours of anguish . 
Partly from restlessness , partly from an attraction she hardly avowed to herself , she followed her usual habit and strolled listlessly along to the school . 
Later , in the course of the forenoon , Elsie Venner came and took her place . 
The girls all stared at her , -- naturally enough ; for it was hardly to have been expected that she would show herself , after such an event in the household to which she belonged . 
Her expression was somewhat peculiar , and , of course , was attributed to the shock her feelings had undergone on hearing of the crime attempted by her cousin and daily companion . 
When she was looking on her book , or on any indifferent object , her countenance betrayed some inward disturbance , which knitted her dark brows , and seemed to throw a deeper shadow over her features . 
But , from time to time , she would lift her eyes toward Mr. Bernard , and let them rest upon him , without a thought , seemingly , that she herself was the subject of observation or remark . 
The deep instincts of womanhood were striving to grope their way to the surface of her being through all the alien influences which overlaid them . 
She could be secret and cunning in working out any of her dangerous impulses , but she did not know how to mask the unwonted feeling which fixed her eyes and her thoughts upon the only person who had ever reached the spring of her hidden sympathies . 
The girls all looked at Elsie , whenever they could steal a glance unperceived , and many of them were struck with this singular expression her features wore . 
One of these girls was more strongly arrested by Elsie 's look than the others . 
In the recess , as it was called , or interval of suspended studies in the middle of the forenoon , this girl carried her autograph-book , -- for she had one of those indispensable appendages of the boarding-school miss of every degree , -- and asked Elsie to write her name in it . 
Elsie took the pen and wrote , in her sharp Italian hand , Elsie Venner , Infelix . 
It was a remembrance , doubtless , of the forlorn queen of the `` Æneid '' ; but its coming to her thought in this way confirmed the sensitive school-girl in her fears for Elsie , and she let fall a tear upon the page before she closed it . 
Of course , the keen and practised observation of Helen Darley could not fail to notice the change of Elsie 's manner and expression . 
She had long seen that she was attracted to the young master , and had thought , as the old Doctor did , that any impression which acted upon her affections might be the means of awakening a new life in her singularly isolated nature . 
She knew , too , the simply human , not masculine , interest which Mr. Bernard took in Elsie ; he had been frank with Helen , and more than satisfied her that with all the pity and sympathy which overflowed his soul , when he thought of the stricken girl , there mingled not one drop of such love as a youth may feel for a maiden . 
It may help the reader to gain some understanding of the anomalous nature of Elsie Venner , if we look with Helen into Mr. Bernard 's opinions and feelings with reference to her , as they had shaped themselves in his consciousness at the period of which we are speaking . 
When Helen had said , that , if they were living in times when human beings were subject to possession , she should have thought there was something not human about Elsie , it struck an unsuspected vein of thought in his own mind , which he hated to put in words , but which was continually trying to articulate itself among the dumb thoughts which lie under the perpetual stream of mental whispers . 
It was with something of this finer perception , perhaps with some degree of imaginative exaltation , that he set himself to solving the problem of Elsie 's influence to attract and repel those around her . 
It would be needless to repeat the particular suggestions which had come into his mind , as they must probably have come into that of the reader who has noted the singularities of Elsie 's tastes and personal traits . 
`` Did you remark Elsie 's ways this forenoon ? '' 
What about Elsie ? '' 
`` Bernard , her liking for you is growing into a passion . 
I told you , you remember , that Rosa would have to leave us ; we barely missed a scene , I think , if not a whole tragedy , by her going at the right moment . 
But Elsie is infinitely more dangerous to herself and others . 
Mr. Bernard had never told Helen the story of the flower in his Virgil , or that other adventure which he would have felt awkwardly to refer to ; but it had been perfectly understood between them that Elsie showed in her own singular way a well-marked partiality for the young master . 
What if you or I had inherited all the tendencies that were born with his cousin Elsie ? '' 
Handwriting was disguised ; looked a little like Elsie Venner 's , but not characteristic enough to make it certain . 
It would be a new thing , if she had asked public prayers for herself , and a very favorable indication of a change in her singular moral nature . 
It was just possible Elsie might have sent that note . 
Nobody could foretell her actions . 
It would be well to see the girl and find out whether any unusual impression had been produced on her mind by the recent occurrence or by any other cause . 
He saw plainly enough that a generous and liberally cultivated nature might find a refuge and congenial souls in either of these two persuasions , but he objected to some points of the formal creed of the older church , and especially to the mechanism which renders it hard to get free from its outworn and offensive formulæ , -- remembering how Archbishop Tillotson wished in vain that it could be `` well rid of '' the Athanasian Creed . 
Elsie was very uncertain in her feeling about going to church . 
In summer , she loved rather to stroll over The Mountain , on Sundays . 
There was even a story , that she had one of the caves before mentioned fitted up as an oratory , and that she had her own wild way of worshipping the God whom she sought in the dark chasms of the dreaded cliffs . 
Mere fables , doubtless ; but they showed the common belief , that Elsie , with all her strange and dangerous elements of character , had yet strong religious feeling mingled with them . 
The hymn-book which Dick had found , in his midnight invasion of her chamber , opened to favorite hymns , especially some of the Methodist and Quietist character . 
Many had noticed , that certain tunes , as sung by the choir , seemed to impress her deeply ; and some said , that at such times her whole expression would change , and her stormy look would soften so as to remind them of her poor , sweet mother . 
On the Sunday morning after the talk recorded in the last chapter , Elsie made herself ready to go to meeting . 
She was dressed much as usual , excepting that she wore a thick veil , turned aside , but ready to conceal her features . 
It was natural enough that she should not wish to be looked in the face by curious persons who would be staring to see what effect the occurrence of the past week had had on her spirits . 
Her father attended her willingly ; and they took their seats in the pew , somewhat to the surprise of many , who had hardly expected to see them , after so humiliating a family development as the attempted crime of their kinsman had just been furnishing for the astonishment of the public . 
Elsie sat quietly through the first part of the service , which was conducted in the cold , mechanical way to be expected . 
Her face was hidden by her veil ; but her father knew her state of feeling , as well by her movements and attitudes as by the expression of her features . 
Elsie alone remained standing until her father touched her . 
Then she sat down , lifted her veil , and looked at him with a blank , sad look , as if she had suffered some pain or wrong , but could not give any name or expression to her vague trouble . 
She did not tremble any longer , but remained ominously still , as if she had been frozen where she sat . 
-- Elsie sat , statue-like , through the sermon . 
There was nothing to be said in such cases , for Elsie could never talk of her griefs . 
An hour , or a day , or a week of brooding , with perhaps a sudden flash of violence : this was the way in which the impressions which make other women weep , and tell their griefs by word or letter , showed their effects in her mind and acts . 
No one saw just where she went , -- indeed , no one knew its forest-recesses and rocky fastnesses as she did . 
She was gone until late at night ; and when Old Sophy , who had watched for her , bound up her long hair for her sleep , it was damp with the cold dews . 
`` It 's what poor Ol' Sophy 's got for her Elsie , '' the old woman answered . 
Elsie looked her in the face , but did not answer in words . 
This was the nearest approach to sympathetic relations that Elsie ever had : a kind of dumb intercourse of feeling , such as one sees in the eyes of brute mothers looking on their young . 
For three days Elsie did not return to the school . 
Much of the time she was among the woods and rocks . 
It was not very singular that Elsie should be lingering in her old haunts , from which the change of season must soon drive her . 
As much as looks could tell Elsie had told her . 
She had said in words , to be sure , that she could not love . 
Something warped and thwarted the emotion which would have been love in another , no doubt ; but that such an emotion was striving with her against all malign influences which interfered with it the old woman had a perfect certainty in her own mind . 
At the end of three days , Elsie braided her long , glossy , black hair , and shot a golden arrow through it . 
She dressed herself with more than usual care , and came down in the morning superb in her stormy beauty . 
The brooding paroxysm was over , or at least her passion had changed its phase . 
Her father saw it with great relief ; he had always many fears for her in her hours and days of gloom , but , for reasons before assigned , had felt that she must be trusted to herself , without appealing to actual restraint , or any other supervision than such as Old Sophy could exercise without offence . 
All the girls had their eyes on her . 
The girls all looked at Elsie with a new thought ; for she was more sumptuously arrayed than perhaps ever before at the school ; and they said to themselves that she had come meaning to draw the young master 's eyes upon her . 
Elsie was not literary enough for such a scholar : so thought Miss Charlotte Ann Wood , the young poetess . 
Elsie had none of the still , wicked light in her eyes , that morning . 
She looked gentle , but dreamy ; played with her books ; did not trouble herself with any of the exercises , -- which in itself was not very remarkable , as she was always allowed , under some pretext or other , to have her own way . 
The girls went out , but she lingered to the last . 
She then came up to Mr. Bernard , with a book in her hand , as if to ask a question . 
`` Will you walk towards my home with me to-day ? '' 
But there was nothing to be done but to assure her that it would give him great pleasure . 
`` I have no friend , '' Elsie said , all at once . 
Look into them , will you ? '' 
She turned her face toward him . 
`` Beautiful eyes , Elsie , '' he said , -- `` sometimes very piercing , -- but soft now , and looking as if there were something beneath them that friendship might draw out . 
I am your friend , Elsie . 
said Elsie Venner . 
`` Elsie , '' he said , presently , `` I so long to be of some use to you , to have your confidence and sympathy , that I must not let you say or do anything to put us in false relations . 
I do love you , Elsie , as a suffering sister with sorrows of her own , -- as one whom I would save at the risk of my happiness and life , -- as one who needs a true friend more than any of all the young girls I have known . 
Give me your hand , dear Elsie , and trust me that I will be as true a friend to you as if we were children of the same mother . '' 
Elsie gave him her hand mechanically . 
He pressed it gently , looked at her with a face full of grave kindness and sad interest , then softly relinquished it . 
It was all over with poor Elsie . 
Mr. Bernard left her at the gate of the mansion-house , and returned with sad forebodings . 
Elsie went at once to her own room , and did not come from it at the usual hours . 
At last Old Sophy began to be alarmed about her , went to her apartment , and , finding the door unlocked , entered cautiously . 
She found Elsie lying on her bed , her brows strongly contracted , her eyes dull , her whole look that of great suffering . 
Her first thought was that she had been doing herself a harm by some deadly means or other . 
But Elsie saw her fear , and reassured her . 
`` No , '' she said , `` there is nothing wrong , such as you are thinking of ; I am not dying . 
He was in Elsie 's room almost before she knew he was in the house . 
He came to her bedside in such a natural , quiet way , that it seemed as if he were only a friend who had dropped in for a moment to say a pleasant word . 
Yet he was very uneasy about Elsie until he had seen her ; he never knew what might happen to her or those about her , and came prepared for the worst . 
Elsie nodded , without speaking . 
The Doctor took her hand , -- whether with professional views , or only in a friendly way , it would have been hard to tell . 
So he sat a few minutes , looking at her all the time with a kind of fatherly interest , but with it all noting how she lay , how she breathed , her color , her expression , all that teaches the practised eye so much without a single question being asked . 
He saw she was in suffering , and said presently , -- `` You have pain somewhere ; where is it ? '' 
She put her hand to her head . 
As she was not disposed to talk , he watched her for a while , questioned Old Sophy shrewdly a few minutes , and so made up his mind as to the probable cause of disturbance and the proper remedies to be used . 
He ordered some remedies which he thought would relieve Elsie , and left her , saying he would call the next day , hoping to find her better . 
But the next day came , and the next , and still Elsie was on her bed , -- feverish , restless , wakeful , silent . 
At night she tossed about and wandered , and it became at length apparent that there was a settled attack , something like what they called formerly , a `` nervous fever . '' 
On the fourth day she was more restless than common . 
One of the women of the house came in to help to take care of her ; but she showed an aversion to her presence . 
`` Send me Helen Darley , '' she said , at last . 
The caprices of sick people were never to be despised , least of all of such persons as Elsie , when rendered irritable and exacting by pain and weakness . 
`` What 's the matter with Elsie Venner ? '' 
`` A mild feverish attack , I should call it in anybody else ; but she has a peculiar constitution , and I never feel so safe about her as I should about most people . '' 
He announced the result of his inquiries to Helen , who had received a brief note in the mean time from a poor relation of Elsie 's mother , then at the mansion-house , informing her of the critical situation of Elsie and of her urgent desire that Helen should be with her . 
She had a kind of terror of Elsie ; and the thought of having charge of her , of being alone with her , of coming under the full influence of those diamond eyes , -- if , indeed , their light were not dimmed by suffering and weariness , -- was one she shrank from . 
But what could she do ? 
said Elsie , when she heard , with her fine sense quickened by the irritability of sickness , a light footfall on the stair , with a cadence unlike that of any inmate of the house . 
`` It 's a strange woman 's step , '' said Old Sophy , who , with her exclusive love for Elsie , was naturally disposed to jealousy of a new-comer . 
Elsie motioned her to sit in the place she had pointed to , and Helen at that moment entered the room . 
She sat with Elsie most of the time , by day and by night , soothing her , and trying to enter into her confidence and affections , if it should prove that this strange creature was really capable of truly sympathetic emotions . 
What was this unexplained something which came between her soul and that of every other human being with whom she was in relations ? 
She took the opportunity one evening when Elsie was lying asleep and they were both sitting at some distance from her bed . 
`` Tell me , Sophy , '' she said , `` was Elsie always as shy as she seems to be now , in talking with those to whom she is friendly ? '' 
`` How old is Elsie ? '' 
`` How long ago did her mother die ? '' 
Then she whispered , almost inaudibly , -- for her voice appeared to fail her , -- `` What did her mother die of , Sophy ? '' 
She looked round at Elsie , who lay sleeping , as if she might be listening . 
Then she drew Helen towards her and led her softly out of the room . 
`` Don ' never speak in this house ` bout what Elsie 's mother died of ! '' 
Oh , God has made Ugly Things wi ' death in their mouths , Miss Darlin ' , an ' He knows what they 're for ; but my poor Elsie ! 
-- to have her blood changed in her before -- It was in July Mistress got her death , but she liv ' till three week after my poor Elsie was born . '' 
All the unaccountable looks and tastes and ways of Elsie came back to her in the light of an ante-natal impression which had mingled an alien element in her nature . 
She knew the secret of the fascination which looked out of her cold , glittering eyes . 
She knew the significance of the strange repulsion which she felt in her own intimate consciousness underlying the inexplicable attraction which drew her towards the young girl in spite of this repugnance . 
She began to look with new feelings on the contradictions in her moral nature , -- the longing for sympathy , as shown by her wishing for Helen 's company , and the impossibility of passing beyond the cold circle of isolation within which she had her being . 
The fearful truth of that instinctive feeling of hers , that there was something not human looking out of Elsie 's eyes , came upon her with a sudden flash of penetrating conviction . 
One made her a woman , with all a woman 's powers and longings . 
Presently she heard a step behind her , and Elsie 's father came up and joined her . 
Since his introduction to Helen at the distinguished tea-party given by the Widow Rowens , and before her coming to sit with Elsie , Mr. Dudley Venner had in the most accidental way in the world met her on several occasions : once after church , when she happened to be caught in a slight shower and he insisted on holding his umbrella over her on her way home ; -- once at a small party at one of the mansion-houses , where the quick-eyed lady of the house had a wonderful knack of bringing people together who liked to see each other ; -- perhaps at other times and places ; but of this there is no certain evidence . 
They naturally spoke of Elsie , her illness , and the aspect it had taken . 
But Helen noticed in all that Dudley Venner said about his daughter a morbid sensitiveness , as it seemed to her , an aversion to saying much about her physical condition or her peculiarities , -- a wish to feel and speak as a parent should , and yet a shrinking , as if there were something about Elsie which he could not bear to dwell upon . 
She thought she saw through all this , and she could interpret it all charitably . 
But it won ' be my poor Elsie 's weddin ' , 'n' Ol' Sophy won ' be there . '' 
When Helen prayed in the silence of her soul that evening , it was not that Elsie 's life might be spared . 
What could life be to her but a perpetual anguish , and to those about her an everpresent terror ? 
Might she but be so influenced by divine grace , that what in her was most truly human , most purely woman-like , should overcome the dark , cold , unmentionable instinct which had pervaded her being like a subtile poison : that was all she could ask , and the rest she left to a higher wisdom and tenderer love than her own . 
WhenHelen returned to Elsie 's bedside , it was with a new and still deeper feeling of sympathy , such as the story told by Old Sophy might well awaken . 
She understood , as never before , the singular fascination and as singular repulsion which she had long felt in Elsie 's presence . 
It had not been without a great effort that she had forced herself to become the almost constant attendant of the sick girl ; and now she was learning , but not for the first time , the blessed truth which so many good women have found out for themselves , that the hardest duty bravely performed soon becomes a habit , and tends in due time to transform itself into a pleasure . 
Such late flowers as they could lay their hands upon served to fill it , and with many kindly messages they sent it to Miss Elsie Venner at the Dudley mansion-house . 
Elsie was sitting up in her bed when it came , languid , but tranquil , and Helen was by her , as usual , holding her hand , which was strangely cold , Helen thought , for one who was said to have some kind of fever . 
Old Sophy was delighted to see that it pleased Elsie , and laid it on the bed before her . 
Elsie began looking at the flowers and taking them from the basket , that she might see the leaves . 
All at once she appeared to be agitated ; she looked at the basket , -- then around , as if there were some fearful presence about her which she was searching for with her eager glances . 
She took out the flowers , one by one , her breathing growing hurried , her eyes staring , her hands trembling , -- till , as she came near the bottom of the basket , she flung out all the rest with a hasty movement , looked upon the olive-purple leaflets as if paralyzed for a moment , shrunk up , as it were , into herself in a curdling terror , dashed the basket from her , and fell back senseless , with a faint cry which chilled the blood of the startled listeners at her bedside . 
said Old Sophy , as she hastened to her mistress 's pillow . 
`` It 's the leaves of the tree that was always death to her , -- take it away ! 
The poor old woman began chafing Elsie 's hands , and Helen to try to rouse her with hartshorn , while a third frightened attendant gathered up the flowers and the basket and carried them out of the apartment . 
With all the kindness and indulgence her father had bestowed upon her , Elsie had never felt that he loved her . 
There was nothing in the world he would not do for Elsie . 
He had sacrificed his whole life to her . 
His very seeming carelessness about restraining her was all calculated ; he knew that restraint would produce nothing but utter alienation . 
Just so far as she allowed him , he shared her studies , her few pleasures , her thoughts ; but she was essentially solitary and uncommunicative . 
A nature like Elsie 's had necessarily to be studied by itself , and to be followed in its laws where it could not be led . 
Old Sophy spoke for both , as she said , in a low voice , -- `` It 's her mother 's look , -- it 's her mother 's own face right over again , -- she never look ' so before , -- the Lord 's hand is on her ! 
When Elsie woke and lifted her languid eyes upon her father 's face , she saw in it a tenderness , a depth of affection , such as she remembered at rare moments of her childhood , when she had won him to her by some unusual gleam of sunshine in her fitful temper . 
`` Elsie , dear , '' he said , `` we were thinking how much your expression was sometimes like that of your sweet mother . 
The tender look and tone , the yearning of the daughter 's heart for the mother she had never seen , save only with the unfixed , undistinguishing eyes of earliest infancy , perhaps the underthought that she might soon rejoin her in another state of being , -- all came upon her with a sudden overflow of feeling which broke through all the barriers between her heart and her eyes , and Elsie wept . 
It seemed to her father as if the malign influence -- evil spirit it might almost be called -- which had pervaded her being , had at last been driven forth or exorcised , and that these tears were at once the sign and the pledge of her redeemed nature . 
But now she was to be soothed , and not excited . 
After her tears she slept again , and the look her face wore was peaceful as never before . 
Old Sophy met the Doctor at the door and told him all the circumstances connected with the extraordinary attack from which Elsie had suffered . 
It was the purple leaves , she said . 
She remembered that Dick once brought home a branch of a tree with some of the same leaves on it , and Elsie screamed and almost fainted then . 
She , Sophy , had asked her , after she had got quiet , what it was in the leaves that made her feel so bad . 
Elsie could n't tell her , -- did n't like to speak about it , -- shuddered whenever Sophy mentioned it . 
Sophy brought it to him , -- for he had not yet entered Elsie 's apartment . 
He went directly to Elsie 's room . 
He spoke with her as usual , made some slight alteration in his prescriptions , and left the room with a kind , cheerful look . 
He met her father on the stairs . 
`` Yes , '' her father answered , -- `` oh , yes ! 
`` Walk out with me into the garden , '' the Doctor said , `` and I will tell you all I know and all I think about this great mystery of Elsie 's life . '' 
They walked out together , and the Doctor began : -- `` She has lived a double being , as it were , -- the consequence of the blight which fell upon her in the dim period before consciousness . 
You can see what she might have been but for this . 
You know that for these eighteen years her whole existence has taken its character from that influence which we need not name . 
There is hardly any pulse at Elsie 's wrist ; no stimulants seem to rouse her ; and it looks as if life were slowly retreating inwards , so that by-and-by she will sleep as those who lie down in the cold and never wake . '' 
Strange as it may seem , her father heard all this not without deep sorrow , and such marks of it as his thoughtful and tranquil nature , long schooled by suffering , claimed or permitted , but with a resignation itself the measure of his past trials . 
It seemed as if Elsie had forgotten the last scene with him . 
Might it be that pride had come in , and she had sent for him only to show how superior she had grown to the weakness which had betrayed her into that extraordinary request , so contrary to the instincts and usages of her sex ? 
Or was it that the singular change which had come over her had involved her passionate fancy for him and swept it away with her other habits of thought and feeling ? 
Or could it be that she felt that all earthly interests were becoming of little account to her , and wished to place herself right with one to whom she had displayed a wayward movement of her unbalanced imagination ? 
She welcomed Mr. Bernard as quietly as she had received Helen Darley . 
He colored at the recollection of that last scene , when he came into her presence ; but she smiled with perfect tranquillity . 
She did not speak to him of any apprehension ; but he saw that she looked upon herself as doomed . 
So friendly , yet so calm did she seem through all their interview , that Mr. Bernard could only look back upon her manifestation of feeling towards him on their walk from the school as a vagary of a mind laboring under some unnatural excitement , and wholly at variance with the true character of Elsie Venner as he saw her before him in her subdued , yet singular beauty . 
He looked with almost scientific closeness of observation into the diamond eyes ; but that peculiar light which he knew so well was not there . 
She was the same in one sense as on that first day when he had seen her coiling and uncoiling her golden chain ; yet how different in every aspect which revealed her state of mind and emotion ! 
Something of tenderness there was , perhaps , in her tone towards him ; she would not have sent for him , had she not felt more than an ordinary interest in him . 
But through the whole of his visit she never lost her gracious self-possession . 
The Dudley race might well be proud of the last of its daughters , as she lay dying , but unconquered by the feeling of the present or the fear of the future . 
As for Mr. Bernard , he found it very hard to look upon her , and listen to her unmoved . 
Give her this from your scholar and friend Elsie . '' 
`` I have had a very pleasant visit from Mr. Langdon , '' Elsie said . 
TheReverend Chauncy Fairweather , hearing that his parishioner 's daughter , Elsie , was very ill , could do nothing less than come to the mansion-house and tender such consolations as he was master of . 
He thought that company of every sort might be injurious in her weak state . 
However , all these things had better be arranged to suit her wants ; if she would like to talk with a clergyman , she had a great deal better see one as often as she liked , and run the risk of the excitement , than have a hidden wish for such a visit and perhaps find herself too weak to see him by-and-by . 
And besides this spiritual longing , we should never forget that `` On some fond breast the parting soul relies , '' The reader must pardon this digression , which introduces the visit of the Reverend Chauncy Fairweather to Elsie Venner . 
It was mentioned to her that he would like to call and see how she was , and she consented , -- not with much apparent interest , for she had reasons of her own for not feeling any very deep conviction of his sympathy for persons in sorrow . 
But he came , and worked the conversation round to religion , and confused her with his hybrid notions , half made up of what he had been believing and teaching all his life , and half of the new doctrines which he had veneered upon the surface of his old belief . 
He got so far as to make a prayer with her , -- a cool well-guarded prayer , which compromised his faith as little as possible , and which , if devotion were a game played against Providence , might have been considered a cautious and sagacious move . 
When he had gone , Elsie called Old Sophy to her . 
`` Sophy , '' she said , `` do n't let them send that cold-hearted man to me any more . 
The cold minister had frozen Elsie until she felt as if nobody cared for her or would regret her , -- and her question had betrayed this momentary feeling . 
don ' talk so , darlin ' ! '' 
Such scenes were just what were most dangerous , in the state in which Elsie was lying : but that is one of the ways in which an affectionate friend sometimes unconsciously wears out the life which a hired nurse , thinking of nothing but her regular duties and her wages , would have spared from all emotional fatigue . 
The change which had come over Elsie 's disposition was itself the cause of new excitements . 
How was it possible that her father could keep away from her , now that she was coming back to the nature and the very look of her mother , the bride of his youth ? 
How was it possible to refuse her , when she said to Old Sophy , that she should like to have her minister come in and sit by her , even though his presence might perhaps prove a new source of excitement ? 
But the Reverend Doctor did come and sit by her , and spoke such soothing words to her , words of such peace and consolation , that from that hour she was tranquil as never before . 
It was enough that the Reverend Doctor knew all Elsie 's history . 
He could not judge her by any formula , like those which have been moulded by past ages out of their ignorance . 
He did not talk with her as if she were an outside sinner , worse than himself . 
After this there was little change in Elsie , except that her heart beat more feebly every day , -- so that the old Doctor himself , with all his experience , could see nothing to account for the gradual failing of the powers of life , and yet could find no remedy which seemed to arrest its progress in the smallest degree . 
Elsie was hardly allowed to move her hand or to speak above a whisper . 
-- Her father came in to sit with her in the evening . 
He had never talked so freely with her as during the hour he had passed at her bedside , telling her little circumstances of her mother 's life , living over with her all that was pleasant in the past , and trying to encourage her with some cheerful gleams of hope for the future . 
A faint smile played over her face , but she did not answer his encouraging suggestions . 
The hour came for him to leave her with those who watched by her . 
`` Good-night , my dear child , '' he said , and , stooping down , kissed her cheek . 
Elsie rose by a sudden effort , threw her arms round his neck , kissed him , and said , `` Good-night , my dear father ! '' 
The suddenness of her movement had taken him by surprise , or he would have checked so dangerous an effort . 
It was too late now . 
Her arms slid away from him like lifeless weights , -- her head fell back upon her pillow , -- a long sigh breathed through her lips . 
Elsie 's dead ! 
`` Elsie 's dead ! '' 
`` Eighteen year ago I laid two gold eagles on her mother 's eyes , -- he would n't have anything but gold touch her eye-lids , -- and now Elsie 's to be straightened , -- the Lord have mercy on her poor sinful soul ! '' 
The time came when Elsie was to be laid by her mother in the small square marked by the white stone . 
It was not unwillingly that the Reverend Chauncy Fairweather had relinquished the duty of conducting the service to the Reverend Doctor Honeywood , in accordance with Elsie 's request . 
Any good old Roman Catholic priest , born and bred to his faith and his business , would have found a loophole into some kind of heaven for her , by virtue of his doctrine of `` invincible ignorance , '' or other special proviso ; but a recent convert can not enter into the working conditions of his new creed . 
And in this poor Elsie 's history he could read nothing which the tears of the recording angel might not wash away . 
So many wished to look upon Elsie 's face once more , that her father would not deny them ; nay , he was pleased that those who remembered her living should see her in the still beauty of death . 
`` He has taken away the mark that was on her ; she 's fit to meet his holy angels now ! '' 
So Elsie lay for hours in the great room , in a kind of state , with flowers all about her , -- her black hair braided as in life , -- her brows smooth , as if they had never known the scowl of passion , -- and on her lips the faint smile with which she had uttered her last `` Good-night . '' 
The young girls from the school looked at her , one after another , and passed on , sobbing , carrying in their hearts the picture that would be with them all their days . 
Then all at once rose the clear sound of the girls ' voices , in the sweet , sad melody of a funeral hymn , -- one of those which Elsie had marked , as if prophetically , among her own favorites . 
And so they laid her in the earth , and showered down flowers upon her , and filled her grave , and covered it with green sods . 
Mr. Bernard looked upon it , as he came close to the place where Elsie was laid , and read the inscription , -- CATALINA WIFE TO DUDLEY VENNER DIED OCTOBER 13TH 1840 AGED XX YEARS . 
At night she was restless , and would get up and wander to Elsie 's apartment and look for her and call her by name . 
At other times she would lie awake and listen to the wind and the rain , -- sometimes with such a wild look upon her face , and with such sudden starts and exclamations , that it seemed as if she heard spirit-voices and were answering the whispers of unseen visitants . 
With all this were mingled hints of her old superstition , -- forebodings of something fearful about to happen , -- perhaps the great final catastrophe of all things , according to the prediction current in the kitchens of Rockland . 
All day long she and the humble relative of Elsie 's mother , who had appeared as poor relations are wont to in the great crises of life , were busy in arranging the disordered house , and looking over the various objects which Elsie 's singular tastes had brought together , to dispose of them as her father might direct . 
`` I 've seen Elsie into th ' ground , 'n' I a 'n' t goin ' away to come back 'n' fin ' Massa Venner buried under th ' rocks . 
The old black woman had been her companion in all the kind offices of which she had been the ministering angel to Elsie . 
He was engaged in a mental calculation as to the amount of the deduction he should make under the head of `` demage to the institootion , '' -- this depending somewhat on that of the `` pecooniary compensation '' she might have received for her services as the friend of Elsie Venner . 
Elsie had been a perpetual source of anxiety to him , but still she had been a companion . 
He could not mourn for her ; for he felt that she was safer with her mother , in that world where there are no more sorrows and dangers , than she could have been with him . 
But as he sat at his window and looked at the three mounds , the loneliness of the great house made it seem more like the sepulchre than these narrow dwellings where his beloved and her daughter lay close to each other , side by side , -- Catalina , the bride of his youth , and Elsie , the child whom he had nurtured , with poor Old Sophy , who had followed them like a black shadow , at their feet , under the same soft turf , sprinkled with the brown autumnal leaves . 
It was the golden bracelet , -- the parting-gift of Elsie Venner . 
