Her cares now over , she stands drying her hands on a roller-towel in the kitchen , while her only daughter , the gentle Mary , stands in the doorway with the afternoon sun streaming in spots of flickering golden light on her smooth pale-brown hair , -- a petitefigure in a full stuff petticoat and white short gown , she stands reaching up one hand and cooing to something among the apple-blossoms , -- and now a Java dove comes whirring down and settles on her finger , -- and we , that have seen pictures , think , as we look on her girlish face , with its lines of statuesque beauty , on the tremulous , halfinfantine expression of her lovely mouth , and the general air of simplicity and purity , of some old pictures of the girlhood of the Virgin . 
do n't fool with that bird , -- it 's high time we were dressed and ready , '' -- and Mary , blushing , as it would seem , even to her hair , gave a little toss , and sent the bird , like a silver fluttering cloud , up among the rosy apple-blossoms . 
And now she and her mother have gone to their respective little bedrooms for the adjustment of their toilettes ; and while the door is shut and nobody hears us , we shall talk to you about Mary . 
There was something in Mary , however , which divided her as by an appreciable line from ordinary girls of her age . 
From her father she had inherited a deep and thoughtful nature , predisposed to moral and religious exaltation . 
Had she been born in Italy , under the dissolving influences of that sunny dreamy clime , beneath the shadow of cathedrals , and where pictured saints and angels smiled in clouds of painting from every arch and altar , she might , like fair St. Catherine of Siena , have seen beatific visions in the sunset skies , and a silver dove descending upon her as she prayed ; but , unfolding in the clear , keen , cold New England clime , and nurtured in its abstract and positive theologies , her religious faculties took other forms . 
But , in truth , Mary was only a recast in feminine form of her father 's nature . 
The elixir of the spirit that sparkled within her was of that quality of which the souls of poets and artists are made ; but the keen New England air crystalizes emotions into ideas , and restricts many a poetic soul to the necessity of expressing itself only in practical living . 
It was easy enough for Mary to believe in self - renunciation , for she was one with a born vocation for martyrdom ; and so , when the idea was put to her of suffering eternal pains for the glory of God and the good of being in general , she responded to it with a sort of sublime thrill , such as it is given to some natures to feel in view of uttermost sacrifice . 
But when she looked around on the warm , living faces of friends , acquaintances and neighbors , viewing them as possible candidates for dooms so fearfully different , she sometimes felt the walls of her faith closing round her as an iron shroud , -- she wondered that the sun could shine so brightly , that lowers could flaunt such dazzling colors , that sweet airs could breathe , and little children play , and youth love and hope , and a thousand intoxicating influences combine to cheat the victims from the thought that their next step might be into an abyss of horrors without end . 
The blood of youth and hope was saddened by this great sorrow , which lay ever on her heart , -- and her life , unknown to herself , was a sweet tune in the minor key ; it was only in prayer , or deeds of love and charity , or in rapt contemplation of that beautiful millennial day , which her spiritual guide most delighted to speak of , that the tone of her feelings ever rose to the height of joy . 
Among Mary 's young associates was one who had been as a brother to her childhood . 
He was her mother 's cousin 's son , -- and so , by a sort of family immunity , had always a free access to her mother 's house . 
Mary 's mother , now that Mary was grown up to woman 's estate , looked with a severe eye on her cousin . 
She warned her daughter against too free an association with him , -- and so -- We all know what comes to pass when girls are constantly warned not to think of a man . 
The most conscientious and obedient little person in the world , Mary resolved to be very careful . 
She never would think of James , except , of course , in her prayers ; but as these were constant , it may easily be seen it was not easy to forget him . 
All that was so often told her of his carelessness , his trifling , his contempt of orthodox opinions , and his startling and bold expressions , only wrote his name deeper in her heart , -- for was not his soul in peril ? 
Could she look in his frank , joyous face and listen to his thoughtless laugh , and then think that a fall from mast-head , or one night 's storm , might -- Ah , with what images her faith filled the blank ! 
Could she believe all this and forget him ? 
A quiet,maiden-like place was Mary 's little room . 
The bed and low window were draped in spotless white , with fringes of Mary 's own knotting . 
Yet it is to be confessed , this occasional raid of the romantic into Mary 's balanced and well-ordered mind was soon energetically put to rout , and the book , as we have said , remained on her table under protest , -- protected by being her father 's gift to her mother during their days of courtship . 
Here in this little retreat Mary spent those few hours which her exacting conscience would allow her to spare from her busy-fingered household-life here she read and wrote and thought and prayed : -- and here she stands now , arraying herself for the tea company that afternoon . 
Mary 's toilette , therefore , was sooner made than those of Newport belles of the present day ; it simply consisted in changing her ordinary `` short gown and petticoat '' for another of somewhat nicer materials , -- a skirt of India chintz and a striped jacconet short-gown . 
Her hair was of the kind which always lies like satin ; but , nevertheless , girls never think their toilette complete unless the smoothest hair has been shaken down and rearranged . 
A few moments , however , served to braid its shining folds and dispose them in their simple knot on the back of the head ; and having given a final stroke to each side with her little dimpled hands , she sat down a moment at the window , thoughtfully watching where the afternoon sun was creeping through the slats of the fence in long lines of gold among the tall , tremulous orchard-grass , and unconsciously she began warbling , in a low , gurgling voice , the words of a familiar hymn , whose grave earnestness accorded well with the general tone of her life and education : -- There was a swish and rustle in the orchard-grass , and a tramp of elastic steps ; then the branches were brushed aside , and a young man suddenly emerged from the trees a little behind Mary . 
He introduced the colloquy by stepping deliberately behind Mary , putting his arms round her neck , and kissing her . 
said Mary , starting up , and blushing . 
said the young man , leaning his elbow on the window-seat and looking at her with an air of comic determined frankness , which yet had in it such wholesome honesty that it was scarcely possible to be angry . 
`` The fact is , Mary , '' he added , with a sudden earnest darkening of the face , `` I wo n't stand this nonsense any longer . 
Aunt Kate always comes between us and says , ` Here , Mary , you take my arm . ' 
What does she think I go to meeting for , and almost break my jaws keeping down the gapes ? 
`` I aminterested in one or two good things , Mary , -- principally in you , who are the best I know of . 
Besides , '' he said quickly , and scanning her face attentively to see the effect of his words , `` do n't you think there is more merit in my sitting out all these meetings , when they bore me so confoundedly , than there is in your and Aunt Katy 's doing it , who really seem to find something to like in them ? 
`` In every nation , he that feareth God and worketh righteousness is accepted of Him , '' said Mary ; `` and if there are better Christians than we are among the Mahometans , I am sure I 'm glad of it . 
`` Well , Mary , you have got into that harbor , through all the sandbars and rocks and crooked channels ; and now do you think it right to leave a fellow beating about outside , and not go out to help him in ? 
There was a solemnity and pathos in Mary 's manner which checked the conversation . 
Her eyes filled with tears , her face kindled with a sad earnestness , and James thought , as he looked , of a picture he had once seen in a European cathedral , where the youthful Mother of Sorrows is represented , James had thought he loved Mary ; he had admired her remarkable beauty , he had been proud of a certain right in her before that of other young men , her associates ; he had thought of her as the keeper of his home ; he had wished to appropriate her wholly to himself ; -- but in all this there had been , after all , only the thought of what she was to be to him ; and , for this poor measure of what he called love , she was ready to offer , an infinite sacrifice . 
After a moment 's pause , he spoke in a low and altered voice : -- `` Mary , I am a sinner . 
Your mother is quite right , Mary ; you are too good for me ; I am no mate for you . 
`` Now , Mary , I beg your pardon , but I ca n't make head or tail of a word Dr. Hopkins says . 
Why , Mary , you are a living gospel . 
`` Mary , I 'm going to confess my sins . 
`` Well , now , Mary , all this seems mean to me , -- mean , to try and trick and snare you , who are so much too good for me . 
Only , Mary , just give me your little Bible , and I 'll promise to read it all through soberly , and see what it all comes to . 
And pray for me ; and if , while I 'm gone , a good man comes who loves you , and is worthy of you , why , take him , Mary , -- that 's my advice . '' 
Mary , you girls and women do n't know the world you live in ; you ought to be pure and good ; you are not tempted as we are . 
I do n't mean you , Mary , for you are different from most ; but if you would do what you could , you might save us . 
-- But it 's no use talking , Mary . 
If Mary had spoken all that welled up in her little heart at that moment , she might have said too much ; but duty had its habitual seal upon her lips . 
She took the little Bible from her table and gave it with a trembling hand , and James turned to go . 
`` Mary , '' he said , `` we are cousins ; I may never come back ; you might kiss me this once . '' 
Atthe call of her mother , Mary hurried into the `` best room , '' with a strange discomposure of spirit she had never felt before . 
From childhood , her love for James had been so deep , equable , and intense , that it had never disturbed her with thrills and yearnings ; it had grown up in sisterly calmness , and , quietly expanding , had taken possession of her whole nature , without her once dreaming of its power . 
But this last interview seemed to have struck some great nerve of her being , -- and calm as she usually was , from habit , principle , and good health , she shivered and trembled , as she heard his retreating footsteps , and saw the orchard-grass fly back from under his feet . 
It was as if each step trod on a nerve , -- as if the very sound of the rustling grass was stirring something living and sensitive in her soul . 
And , strangest of all , a vague impression of guilt hovered over her . 
She did not ask him there ; she had not spoken love to him ; no , she had only talked to him of his soul , and how she would give hers for his , -- oh , so willingly ! 
`` There is the Deacon 's wife , mother , '' said Mary , turning confusedly , and darting to the entry-door . 
There , dear , '' -LRB- to Mary , -RRB- `` do n't trouble yourself about my bonnet ; it a 'n' t my Sunday one , but I thought ` twould do . 
Deacon was saying , if ever she was called , she 'd be a Martha , and not a Mary ; but then she 's dreadful opposed to the doctrines . 
Somehow they seem to rile her all up ; and she was a-tellin ' me yesterday , when she was a-hangin ' out clothes , that she uever should get reconciled to Decrees and ` Lection , 'cause she ca n't see , if things is certain , how folks is to help 'em selves . 
And now Mrs. Katy , giving a look at the old clock , told Mary it was time to set the tea-table ; and forthwith there was a gentle movement of expectancy . 
Mary spins better now than I ever did . 
Mary , hand out those napkins . '' 
And so Mary 's napkins passed from hand to hand . 
`` Well , well , '' said Mrs. Twitchel to Mary , `` it 's easy to see that yourlinen-chest will be pretty full by the time hecomes along ; wo n't it , Miss Jones ? '' 
Mary was vexed to feel the blood boil up in her cheeks in a most unexpected and provoking way at the suggestion ; whereat Mrs. Twitchel nodded knowingly at Mrs. Jones , and whispered something in a mysterious aside , to which plump Mrs. Jones answered , -- `` Why , do tell ! 
Now there 's your Mary , Miss Scudder , -- why , there a 'n' t nothin ' she ca n't do ; but law , I was down to Miss Skinner 's , last week , a-watchin ' with her , and re ` lly it ` most broke my heart to see her . 
I tell Mary , -- ` Always do up your work in the forenoon . ' 
`` There 's another thing I always tell Mary , '' said Mrs. Katy , impressively . 
When Mary and I do all ourselves , we can calculate everything to a minute ; and we get our time to sew and read and spin and visit , and live just as we want to . '' 
said Mrs. Katy , when Mary , returning from the kitchen , announced the important fact , that the tea-kettle was boiling . 
And now Mrs. Katy says , `` Mary , dear , knock at the Doctor 's door and tell him that tea is ready . '' 
A man of gigantic proportions , over six feet in height , and built every way with an amplitude corresponding to his height , he bent over his writing , so absorbed that he did not hear the gentle sound of Mary 's entrance . 
`` If you please , Sir , '' said Mary , standing in his way , `` would you not like to put on your coat and wig ? '' 
And Mary , sure that he was now on the right track , went back to the tea-room with the announcement that the Doctor was coming . 
We will not relate , either , too minutely , how Mary changed color and grew pale and red in quick succession , when Mr. Simeon Brown incidentally remarked , that the `` Monsoon '' was going to set sail that very afternoon , for her three-years ' voyage . 
There was a little path through the orchard out to a small elevation in the pasture lot behind , whence the sea was distinctly visible , and Mary had often used her low-silled window as a door when she wanted to pass out thither ; so now she stepped out , and , gathering her skirts back from the dewy grass , walked thoughtfully along the path and gained the hill . 
Newport harbor lay stretched out in the distance , with the rising moon casting a long , wavering track of silver upon it ; and vessels , like silver-winged moths , were turning and shifting slowly to and fro upon it , and one stately ship in full sail passing fairly out under her white canvas , graceful as some grand , snowy bird . 
Mary 's beating heart told her that therewas passing away from her one who carried a portion of her existence with him . 
She sat down under a lonely tree that stood there , and , resting her elbow on her knee , followed the ship with silent prayers , as it passed , like a graceful cloudy dream , out of her sight . 
Then she thoughtfully retraced her way to her chamber ; and as she was entering , observed in the now clearer moonlight what she had not seen before , -- something white , like a letter , lying on the floor . 
Immediately she struck a light , and there , sure enough , it was , -- a letter in James 's handsome , dashing hand ; and the little puss , before she knew what she was about , actually kissed it , with a fervor which would much have astonished the writer , could he at that moment have been clairvoyant . 
But Mary felt as one who finds , in the emptiness after a friend 's death , an unexpected message or memento ; and all alone in the white , calm stillness of her little room her heart took sudden possession of her . 
She opened the letter with trembling hands , and read what of course we shall let you read . 
It is only in your presence , Mary , that I feel that I am bad and low and shallow and mean , because you represent to me a sphere higher and holier than any in which I have ever moved , and stir up a sort of sighing and longing in my heart to come towards it . 
In all countries , in all temptations , Mary , your image has stood between me and low , gross vice . 
And sometimes , Mary , when I have seen girls that , had they been cared for by good pious mothers , might have been like you , I have felt as if I could cry for them . 
`` No , I have not been bad , Mary , as the world calls badness . 
There is a Maker and a Ruler , doubtless ; but then , Mary , all this invisible world of religion is unreal to me . 
But then he and you have something in you that I call religion , -- something that makes you good.When I see a man working away on an entirely honest , unworldly , disinterested pattern , as he does , and when I see you , Mary , as I said before , I should like at least to beas you are , whether I can believe as you do or not . 
Oh , Mary , some better man must win you ; I never shall and never can ; but then you must not quite forget me ; you must be my friend , my saint . 
`` So , dear Mary , good-by ! 
Pray still for your naughty , loving Mary read this letter and re-read it , with more pain than pleasure . 
It was without one particle of gratified vanity , with even a throb of pain , that she read such exalted praises of herself from one blind to the glories of a far higher loveliness . 
Yet was she at that moment , unknown to herself , one of the great company scattered through earth who are priests unto God , -- ministering between the Divine One , who has unveiled himself unto them , and those who as yet stand in the outer courts of the great sanctuary of truth and holiness . 
Mary took from a drawer a small pocket-book , from which dropped a lock of black hair , -- a glossy curl , which seemed to have a sort of wicked , wilful life in every shining ring , just as she had often seen it shake naughtily on the owner 's head . 
She felt a strange tenderness towards the little wilful thing , and , as she leaned over it , made in her heart a thousand fond apologies for every fault and error . 
She was standing thus when Mrs. Scudder entered the room to see if her daughter had yet retired . 
`` What are you doing there , Mary ? '' 
she said , as her eye fell on the letter . 
Mary felt herself grow pale ; it was the first time in her whole life that her mother had asked her a question that she was not from the heart ready to answer . 
Her loyalty to her only parent had gone on even-handed with that she gave to her God ; she felt , somehow , that the revelations of that afternoon had opened a gulf between them , and the consciousness overpowered her . 
Her child was the core of her heart , the apple of her eye ; and intense love is always near neighbor to anger ; there was , therefore , an involuntary flash from her eye and a heightening of her color , as she said , -- `` Mary , are you concealing anything from your mother ? '' 
In that moment , Mary had grown calm again . 
The wonted serene , balanced nature had found its habitual poise , and she looked up innocently , though with tears in her large , blue eyes , and said , -- `` No , mother , -- I have nothing that I do not mean to tell you fully . 
Mrs. Katy sat down with a flushed cheek and a discomposed air ; but Mary seemed actually to bear her down by the candid clearness of the large , blue eye which she turned on her , as she stood perfectly collected , with her deadly pale face and a brilliant spot burning on each cheek . 
`` Mother , -- everybody has things at times which they would like to say to some one person alone , '' said Mary . 
Mary shrank from showing this letter , from the natural sense of honor which makes us feel it indelicate to expose to an unsympathizing eye the confidential outpourings of another heart ; and then she felt quite sure that there was no such intercessor for James in her mother 's heart as in her own . 
But over all this reluctance rose the determined force of duty ; and she handed the letter in silence to her mother . 
After reading it with the most tiresome , torturing slowness , she rose , and laying it on the table under Mary 's eye , and pressing down her finger on two lines in the letter , said , `` Mary , have you told James that you loved him ? '' 
`` But , Mary , this that he speaks of is something different . 
`` I mean , if only one of us two could go to heaven , I had rather it should be him than me , '' said Mary . 
`` I think , '' she added , `` that Jane Spencer would make him an excellent wife '' Mary was astonished at a strange , new pain that shot through her at these words . 
She drew in her breath and turned herself uneasily , as one who had literally felt a keen dividing blade piercing between soul and spirit . 
Till this moment , she had never been conscious of herself ; but the shaft had torn the veil . 
She covered her face with her hands ; the hot blood flushed scarlet over neck and brow ; at last , with a beseeching look , she threw herself into her mother 's arms . 
Mary , your father was a wonderful man ; he was one of the sort that the world knows not of ; -- sometime I must show you his letters . 
`` He certainly is an unbeliever , Mary , by his own confession ; -- but then God is a Sovereign and hath mercy on whom he will . 
`` Yes , all that is true ; but yet , Mary , when one has but one little ewe lamb in the world , one is jealous of it . 
She had , too , a real kindness for the young man , whom she regarded as a well-meaning , wilful youngster ; but that heshould touch her saint , her Mary , that heshould take from her the daughter who was her all , really embittered her heart towards him . 
Just so , ever since the good man had lived at Mrs. Scudder 's , and had the gentle Mary for his catechumen , a richer life seemed to have colored his thoughts , -- his mind seemed to work with a pleasure as never before . 
He never thought , this good old soul , whether Mary were beautiful or not ; he never even knew that he looked at her ; nor did he know why it was that the truths of his theology , when uttered by her tongue , had such a wondrous beauty as he never felt before . 
He did not know why it was , that , when she silently sat by him , copying tangled manuscript for the press , as she sometimes did , his whole study seemed so full of some divine influence , as if , like St. Dorothea , she had worn in her bosom , invisibly , the celestial roses of paradise . 
On Sunday mornings , when Mary came out of her little room , in clean white dress , with her singing-book and psalm-book in her hands , her deep eyes solemn from recent prayer , he thought of that fair and mystical bride , the Lamb 's wife , whose union with her Divine Redeemer in a future millennial age was a frequent and favorite subject of his musings ; yet he knew not that this celestial bride , clothed in fine linen , clean and white , veiled in humility and meekness , bore in his mind those earthly features . 
Her Mary , she pondered , was no common girl . 
When Mary , therefore , at quite an early age , in all the bloom of her youthful beauty , arose , according to the simple and impressive New England rite , to consecrate herself publicly to a religious life , and to join the company of professing Christians , she was regarded with a species of deference amounting even to awe . 
Had it not been for the childlike , unconscious simplicity of her manners , the young people of her age would have shrunk away from her , as from one entirely out of their line of thought and feeling ; but a certain natural and innocent playfulness and amiable self-forgetfulness made her a general favorite . 
She felt kindly to the youth ; she wished him well ; but as to giving him her Mary ! 
-- how fortunate that Mary had been prevented in any way from committing herself with him ! 
-- how encourageing that the only man in those parts , in the least fitted to appreciate her , seemed so greatly pleased and absorbed in her society ! 
-- how easily might Mary 's dutiful reverence be changed to a warmer sentiment , when she should find that so great a man could descend from his lofty thoughts to think of her ! 
We do assure you , right reverend Sir , and you , most discreet Madam , that it is not going to prove anything else ; and you will find , if you will follow us , that there is as much romance burning under the snow-banks of cold Puritan preciseness as if Dr. Hopkins had been brought up to attend operas instead of metaphysical preaching , and Mary had been nourished on Byron 's poetry instead of `` Edwards on the Affections . '' 
The innocent credulities , the subtle deceptions , that were quietly at work under the grave , white curls of the Doctor 's wig , were exactly of the kind which have beguiled man in all ages , when near the sovereign presence of her who is born for his destiny ; -- and as for Mary , what did it avail her that she could say the Assembly 's Catechism from end to end without tripping , and that every habit of her life beat time to practical realities , steadily as the parlor clock ? 
What Mary loved so passionately , that which came between her and God in every prayer , was not the gay , young , dashing sailor , -- sudden in anger , imprudent of speech , and , though generous in heart , yet worldly in plans and schemings , -- but her own ideal of a grand and noble man , -- such a man as she thought he might become . 
He stood glorified before her , an image of the strength that overcomes things physical , of the power of command which controls men and circumstances , of the courage which disdains fear , of the honor which can not lie , of constancy which knows no shadow of turning , of tenderness which protects the weak , and , lastly , of religious loyalty which should lay the golden crown of its perfected manhood at the feet of a Sovereign Lord and Redeemer . 
This was the man she loved , and with this regal mantle of glories she invested the person called James Marvyn ; and all that she saw and felt to be wanting she prayed for with the faith of a believing woman . 
Nor was she wrong ; -- for , as to every leaf and every flower there is an ideal to which the growth of the plant is constantly urging , so is there an ideal to every human being , -- a perfect form in which it might appear , were every defect removed and every characteristic excellence stimulated to the highest point . 
At this very moment , while the crimson wings of morning were casting delicate reflections on tree , and bush , and rock , they were also reddening innumerable waves round a ship that sailed alone , with a wide horizon stretching like an eternity around it ; and in the advancing morning stood a young man thoughtfully looking off into the ocean , with a book in his hand , -- James Marvyn , -- as truly and heartily a creature of this material world as Mary was of the invisible and heavenly . 
But it is not often that all the current of a life is reversed in one hour ; and now , as James stood on the ship 's deck , with life passing around him , and everything drawing upon the strings of old habits , Mary and her religion recurred to his mind as some fair , sweet , inexplicable vision . 
Where she stood he saw ; but how hewas ever to get there seemed as incomprehensible as how a mortal man should pillow his form on sunset clouds . 
It is six o'clock , -- the hired men and oxen are gone , -- the breakfast-table stands before the open kitchen-door , snowy with its fresh cloth , the old silver coffee-pot steaming up a refreshing perfume , -- and the Doctor sits on one side , sipping his coffee and looking across the table at Mary , who is innocently pleased at the kindly beaming in his placid blue eyes , -- and Aunt Katy Scudder discourses of housekeeping , and fancies something must have disturbed the rising of the cream , as it is not so thick and yellow as wont . 
Now the Doctor , it is to be confessed , was apt to fall into a way of looking at people such as pertains to philosophers and scholars generally , that is , as if he were looking through them into the infinite , -- in which case his gaze became so earnest and intent that it would quite embarrass an uninitiated person ; but Mary , being used to this style of contemplation , was only quietly amused , and waited till some great thought should loom up before his mental vision , -- in which case she hoped to hear from him . 
This remark , made without the slightest personal intention , called a curious smile into Mrs. Scudder 's face , which was reflected in a slight blush from Mary 's , when the crack of a whip and the rattling of wagon-wheels disturbed the conversation and drew all eyes to the door . 
said Mary . 
she said , turning to Mary , `` why ye looks like a new rose , ebery bit ! 
Missy Marvyn she sent down , an ' says , would you an ' de Doctor an ' Miss Mary please come to tea dis arternoon . '' 
`` Thank your mistress , Candace , '' said Mrs. Scudder ; `` Mary and I will come , -- and the Doctor , perhaps , '' looking at the good man , who had relapsed into meditation , and was eating his breakfast without taking note of anything going on . 
`` It will be time enough to tell him of it , '' she said to Mary , `` when we have to wake him up to dress ; so we wo n't disturb him now . '' 
To Mary the prospect of the visit was a pleasant one , for reasons which she scarce gave a definite form to . 
Added to this , a very tender and silent friendship subsisted between Mrs. Marvyn and Mary ; in which , besides similarity of mind and intellectual pursuits , there was a deep , unspoken element of sympathy . 
Candace watched the light in Mary 's eyes with the instinctive shrewdness by which her race seem to divine the thoughts and feelings of their superiors , and chuckled to herself internally . 
Without ever having been made a confidanteby any party , or having a word said to or before her , still the whole position of affairs was as clear to her as if she had seen it on a map . 
She had appreciated at once Mrs. Scudder 's coolness , James 's devotion , and Mary 's perplexity , -- and inly resolved , that , if the little maiden did not think of James in his absence , it should not be her fault . 
`` Laws , Miss Scudder , '' she said , `` I 's right glad you 's comin ' ; 'cause you has n't seen how we 's kind o ' splendified since Massa Jim come home . 
My faith 's strong , -- real clare , ` tell ye , '' she added , with the triumphant laugh which usually chorused her conversation , and turning to the Doctor , who , aroused by her loud and vigorous strain , was attending with interest to her . 
And as the Doctor spoke , he straightened himself to the full dignity of his height , his face kindling with an unconscious majesty , and , as he turned , his eye fell on Mary , who was standing with her slender figure dilated , her large blue eye wide and bright , in a sort of trance of solemn feeling , half smiles , half tears , -- and the strong , heroic man started , to see this answer to his higher soul in the sweet , tremulous mirror of womanhood . 
He took both her outstretched hands , looked down into her face with a look full of admiration , and a sort of naïve wonder , -- then , as if her inspired silence had been a voice to him , he laid his hand on her head , and said , -- `` God bless you , child ! 
`` Mary , '' said Mrs. Scudder , laying her hand on her daughter 's arm , `` the Doctor loves you ! '' 
`` I know he does , mother , '' said Mary , innocently ; `` and I love him , -- dearly ! 
Mary 's eye was as calm as a June sky , and she began , composedly , gathering up the teacups . 
`` Seems to me , '' said Mary , `` that is like an Apostle . 
`` And I , for another , '' said Mary . 
Mrs. Scudder herself drove , sitting on a seat in front , while the Doctor , apparelled in the most faultless style , with white wrist-ruffles , plaited shirt-bosom , immaculate wig , and well-brushed coat , sat by Mary 's side , serenely unconscious how many feminine cares had gone to his getting-up . 
He did not know of the privy consultations , the sewings , stitchings , and starchings , the ironings , the brushings , the foldings and unfoldings and timely arrangements , that gave such dignity and respectability to his outer man , any more than the serene moon rising tranquilly behind a purple mountain-top troubles her calm head with treatises on astronomy ; it is enough for her to shine , -- she thinks not how or why . 
Mrs. Marvyn had drawn Mary 's hand gently under her arm and taken her to her own sleeping-room , as it was her general habit to do , that she might show her the last book she had been reading , and pour into her ear the thoughts that had been kindled up by it . 
Mrs. Marvyn and Mary , who had glided in and joined the circle , looked interested ; and a slight flush rose and overspread the thin cheeks of Mr. Marvyn , and his blue eyes deepened in a moment with a thoughtful shadow , as he looked inquiringly at the Doctor , who proceeded : -- `` My mind labors with this subject of the enslaving of the Africans , Mr. Marvyn . 
Willour little Mary really fall in love with the Doctor ? 
`` Now , really , '' says the Rev. Mrs. Q. , looking up from her bundle of Sewing-Society work , `` you are notgoing to let Mary marry the Doctor ? '' 
`` Is it possible , '' says Dr. Theophrastus , who is himself a stanch Hopkinsian divine , and who is at present recovering from his last grand effort on Natural and Moral Ability , -- `` is it possible that you are going to let Mary forget that poor young man and marry Dr. Hopkins ? 
Add to all this , that our valiant hero is now on the straight road to bring him into that situation most likely to engage the warm partisanship of a true woman , -- namely , that of a man unjustly abused for right-doing , -- and one may see that it is ten to one our Mary may fall in love with him yet before she knows it . 
If it were not for this mysterious selfness-and-sameness which makes this wild , wandering , uncanonical sailor , James Marvyn , so intimate and internal , -- if his thread were not knit up with the thread of her life , -- were it not for the old habit of feeling for him , thinking for him , praying for him , hoping for him , fearing for him , which -- wo is us ! 
-- is the unfortunate habit of womankind , -- if it were not for that fatal something which neither judgment , nor wishes , nor reason , nor common sense shows any great skill in unravelling , -- we are quite sure that Mary would be in love with the Doctor within the next six months ; as it is , we leave you all to infer from your own heart and consciousness what his chances are . 
Accordingly , early one morning , after all domestic duties had been fulfilled , and the clock , loudly ticking through the empty rooms , told that all needful bustle had died down to silence , Mrs. Katy , Mary , and Miss Prissy Diamond , the dress-maker , might have been observed sitting in solemn senate around the camphor-wood trunk , before spoken of , and which exhaled vague foreign and Indian perfumes of silk and sandal-wood . 
`` I have always told Mary , '' she continued , `` that , though our hearts ought not to be set on these things , yet they had their importance . '' 
`` Mr. Scudder chose it for me , himself , at the silk-factory in Lyons , '' said Mrs. Scudder , with pardonable pride , `` and I want it tried on to Mary . '' 
`` I was up to Miss Marvyn 's , a-working , last week , '' she said , as she threw the dress over Mary 's head , `` and she said that James expected to make his fortune in that voyage , and come home and settle down . '' 
Mary 's fair head emerged from the rustling folds of the brocade , her cheeks crimson as one of the moss-roses , -- while her mother 's face assumed a severe gravity , as she remarked that she believed James had been much pleased with Jane Spencer , and that , for her part , she should be very glad , when he came home , if he could marry such a steady , sensible girl , and settle down to a useful , Christian life . 
I did n't think Mary was so near what you were , when you were a girl , Miss Scudder . 
`` Now , I was a-thinking , '' she added , `` that it would be an excellent way to trim Mary 's sleeves , -- three rows of lace , with a sprig to each row . '' 
All this while , our Mary , with her white short-gown and blue stuff-petticoat , her shining pale brown hair and serious large blue eyes , sat innocently looking first at her mother , then at Miss Prissy , and then at the finery . 
We do not claim for her any superhuman exemption from girlish feelings . 
She was innocently dazzled with the vision of courtly halls and princely splendors , and thought Mrs. Adams 's descriptions almost a perfect realization of things she had read in `` Sir Charles Grandison . '' 
`` I wonder what James wouldthink , '' passed through her head ; for Mary had never changed a ribbon , or altered the braid of her hair , or pinned a flower in her bosom , that she had not quickly seen the effect of the change mirrored in those dark eyes . 
It was a pity , of course , now she had found out that she ought not to think about him , that so many thought-strings were twisted round him . 
So while Miss Prissy turned over her papers , and read out of others extracts about Lord Caermarthen and Sir Clement Cotterel Dormer and the Princess Royal and Princess Augusta , in black and silver , with a silver netting upon the coat , and a head stuck full of diamond pins , -- and Lady Salisbury and Lady Talbot and the Duchess of Devonshire , and scarlet satin sacks and diamonds and ostrich-plumes , and the King 's kissing Mrs. Adams , -- little Mary 's blue eyes grew larger and larger , seeing far off on the salt green sea , and her ears heard only the ripple and murmur of those waters that carried her heart away , -- till , by-and-by , Miss Prissy gave her a smart little tap , which awakened her to the fact that she was wanted again to try on the dress which Miss Prissy 's nimble fingers had basted . 
So passed the day , -- Miss Prissy busily chattering , clipping , basting , -- Mary patiently trying on to an unheard-of extent , -- and Mrs. Scudder 's neat room whipped into a perfect froth and foam of gauze , lace , artificial flowers , linings , and other aids , accessories , and abetments . 
Well , let us proceed to tell how the eventful evening drew on , -- how Mary , by Miss Prissy 's care , stood at last in a long-waisted gown flowered with rose-buds and violets , opening in front to display a white satin skirt trimmed with lace and flowers , -- how her little feet were put into high-heeled shoes , and a little jaunty cap with a wreath of moss-rose-buds was fastened over her shining hair , -- and how Miss Prissy , delighted , turned her round and round , and then declared that she must go and get the Doctor to look at her . 
She knew he must be a man of taste , he talked so beautifully about the Millennium ; and so , bursting into his study , she actually chattered him back into the visible world , and , leading the blushing Mary to the door , asked him , point-blank , if he ever saw anything prettier . 
Miss Prissy reiterated for the twentieth time , as Mary left the room . 
The Doctor , looking after her musingly , said to himself , -- ``` The king 's daughter is all glorious within ; her clothing is of wrought gold ; she shall be brought unto the king in raiment of needle-work . ' '' 
To Mary 's inexperienced eye it seemed like an enchanted dream , -- a realization of all she had dreamed of grand and high society . 
She had her little triumph of an evening ; for everybody asked who that beautiful girl was , and more than one gallant of the old Newport first families felt himself adorned and distinguished to walk with her on his arm . 
We have the image in our mind of Mary as she stood with her little hat and wreath of rose-buds , her fluttering ribbons and rich brocade , as it were a picture framed in the door-way , with her back to the illuminated garden , and her calm , innocent face regarding with a pleased wonder the unaccustomed gayeties within . 
Her dress , which , under Miss Prissy 's forming hand , had been made to assume that appearance of style and fashion which more particularly characterized the mode of those times , formed a singular , but not unpleasing contrast to the sort of dewy freshness of air and mien which was characteristic of her style of beauty . 
The feeling of being in a circle to which she did not belong , where her presence was in a manner an accident , and where she felt none of the responsibilities which come from being a component part of a society , gave to her a quiet , disengaged air , which produced all the effect of the perfect ease of high breeding . 
While she stands there , there comes out of the door of the bridal reception-room a gentleman with a stylishly-dressed lady on either arm , with whom he seems wholly absorbed . 
he said , suddenly pausing in conversation , as his eye accidentally fell upon Mary . 
The consequence was , that in a few moments Mary was startled from her calm speculations by the voice of Mrs. Wilcox , saying at her elbow , in a formal tone , -- `` Miss Scudder , I have the honor to present to your acquaintance Colonel Burr , of the United States Senate . '' 
But , although Mary was a blushing and sensitive person , she was not what is commonly called a diffident girl ; -- her nerves had that healthy , steady poise which gave her presence of mind in the most unwonted circumstances . 
The first few sentences addressed to her by her new companion were in a tone and style altogether different from any in which she had ever been approached , -- different from the dashing frankness of her sailor lover , and from the rustic gallantry of her other admirers . 
That indescribable mixture of ease and deference , guided by refined tact , which shows the practised , high-bred man of the world , made its impression on her immediately , as a breeze on the chords of a wind-harp . 
She felt herself pleasantly swayed and breathed upon ; -- it was as if an atmosphere were around her in which she felt a perfect ease and freedom , an assurance that her lightest word might launch forth safely , as a tiny boat , on the smooth , glassy mirror of her listener 's pleased attention . 
`` Newport has a great deal of beautiful scenery , '' said Mary . 
Mary had been told of her beauty since her childhood , notwithstanding her mother had essayed all that transparent , respectable hoaxing by which discreet mothers endeavor to blind their daughters to the real facts of such cases ; but , in her own calm , balanced mind , she had accepted what she was so often told , as a quiet verity ; and therefore she neither fluttered nor blushed on this occasion , but regarded the speaker with a pleased attention , as one who was saying obliging things . 
`` I suppose they do , '' said Mary . 
`` No , I do not , '' said Mary ; `` these people generally do not visit us . '' 
`` You are very kind to think so , '' replied Mary ; `` but even if it were to be so , I should not see my way clear to be often in such scenes as this . '' 
Her companion looked at her with a glance a little doubtful and amused , and said , `` And pray , why not ? 
`` Because , '' said Mary , `` I should be afraid they would take too much time and thought , and lead me to forget the great object of life . '' 
The simple gravity with which this was said , as if quite assured of the sympathy of her auditor , appeared to give him a secret amusement . 
Mary answered reverentially , in those words then familiar from infancy to every Puritan child , `` To glorify God , and enjoy Him forever . '' 
he said , looking straight into her eyes with that penetrating glance with which he was accustomed to take the gauge of every one with whom he conversed . 
said Mary , looking back , calm and firm , into the sparkling , restless depths of his eyes . 
Had the strain of feeling which now awoke in him come over him elsewhere , he would have shut down some spring in his mind , and excluded it in a moment ; but , talking with a beautiful creature whom he wished to please , he gave way at once to the emotion ; -- real tears stood in his fine eyes , and he raised Mary 's hand to his lips , and kissed it , saying , -- `` Thank you , my beautiful child , for so good a thought . 
`` Oh , I trust not , '' said Mary , earnestly touched and wrought upon , more than she herself knew , by the beautiful eyes , the modulated voice , the charm of manner , which seemed to enfold her like an Italian summer . 
`` I think , Sir , '' said Mary , modestly , `` that you forget the great provision made for our weakness . '' 
`` They that wait on the Lordshall renew their strength , '' she replied , gently . 
He looked at her , as she spoke these words , with a pleased , artistic perception of the contrast between her worldly attire and the simple , religious earnestness of her words . 
He saw that Mary looked embarrassed and pained at this banter , and therefore added , with a delicate shading of earnestness , -- `` In truth , my fair young friend , I hope you willsometimes pray for me . 
`` Indeed I will , '' said Mary , fervently , -- her little heart full , tears in her eyes , her breath coming quick , -- and she added , with a deepening color , `` I am sure , Mr. Burr , that there should be a covenant blessing for you , if for any one , for you are the son of a holy ancestry . '' 
Mary replied in the affirmative , -- her eyes resting the while with pleased admiration on the graceful , animated face and diamond-bright eyes which seemed looking her through . 
-- and as he spoke , he offered her his other arm . 
The lady swept a proud curtsy backward , bridled her beautiful neck , and signed for them to pass her . 
`` I am waiting here for a friend , '' she said . 
`` Whatever is your will is mine , '' replied Burr , bowing with proud humility , and passing on with Mary to the supper-room . 
He was perfectly adroit in playing off one woman against another , and it struck him with a pleasant sense of oddity , how perfectly unconscious his sweet and saintly neighbor was of the position in which she was supposed to stand by her rival ; and poor Mary , all this while , in her simplicity , really thought that she had seen traces of what she would have called the `` strivings of the spirit '' in his soul . 
With Mary it was a living form , -- as were all her words ; for in nothing was the Puritan education more marked than in the earnest realityand truthfulness which it gave to language ; and even now , as she stands by his side , her large blue eye is occasionally fixed in dreamy reverie as she thinks what a triumph of Divine grace it would be , if these inward movings of her companion 's mind shouldlead him , as all the pious of New England hoped , to follow in the footsteps of President Edwards , and forms wishes that she could see him some time when she could talk to him undisturbed . 
She was too humble and too modest fully to accept the delicious flattery which he had breathed , in implying that her hand had had power to unseal the fountains of good in his soul ; but still it thrilled through all the sensitive strings of her nature a tremulous flutter of suggestion . 
She had read instances of striking and wonderful conversions from words dropped by children and women , -- and suppose some such thing should happen to her ! 
and that this so charming and distinguished and powerful being should be called into the fold of Christ 's Church by her means ! 
`` Oh , he is not an infidel , '' said Mary ; `` he is far from it , though I think his mind is a little darkened on some points . '' 
`` A little , '' said Mary blushing ; `` and it seems to me that his mind is perplexed somewhat in regard to the doings of the unregenerate , -- I fear that it has rather proved a stumbling-block in his way ; but he showed somuch feeling ! 
`` His mother was a most godly woman , Mary , '' said the Doctor . 
`` She was called from her youth , and her beautiful person became a temple for the indwelling of the Holy Spirit . 
`` I hope he willcall and talk with you , '' said Mary , earnestly ; `` what a blessing to the world , if such talents as his could become wholly consecrated ! '' 
He stole softly up behind her and whispered something in her ear . 
In a moment she turned on him a face glowing with anger , and drew back haughtily ; but Burr remarked the glitter of tears , not quite dried even by the angry flush of her eyes . 
He spoke in French , and she replied in the same smooth accents , -- `` It was not for her to dispute Monsieur 's right to amuse himself . '' 
Burr drew nearer , and spoke in those persuasive , pleading tones which he had ever at command , and in that language whose very structure in its delicate tutoiementgives such opportunity for gliding on through shade after shade of intimacy and tenderness , till gradually the haughty fire of the eyes was quenched in tears , and , in the sudden revulsion of a strong , impulsive nature , she said what she called words of friendship , but which carried with them all the warmth of that sacred fire which is given to woman to light and warm the temple of home , and which sears and scars when kindled for any other shrine . 
And yet this woman was the wife of his friend and associate ! 
`` Andnow , Mary , '' said Mrs. Scudder , at five o'clock the next morning , `` to-day , you know , is the Doctor 's fast ; so we wo n't get any regular dinner , and it will be a good time to do up all our little odd jobs . 
and how do you do , Mary ? 
I saw who was a-waitin ' on Miss Mary . 
`` I hope Mary has been brought up to feel that . '' 
`` Oh , of course , '' said Miss Prissy , `` it 's just like a fading flower ; all is to be good and useful , -- and that 's what she is . 
I told 'em that her beauty was the least part of her ; though I must say , that dress did fit like a biscuit , -- if 't was my own fitting . 
When the audience streamed out , crowding the broad aisle , Mary descended from the singers , and stood with her psalm-book in hand , waiting at the door to be joined by her mother and the Doctor . 
She overheard many hard words from people who , an evening or two before , had smiled so graciously upon them . 
It was therefore with no little determination of manner that she advanced and took the Doctor 's arm , as if anxious to associate herself with his well-earned unpopularity , -- and just at this moment she caught the eye and smile of Colonel Burr , as he bowed gracefully , yet not without a suggestion of something sarcastic in his eye . 
Well , our little Mary is not without this luxury , and to its sacred precincts we will give you this morning a ticket of admission . 
Yes , there were all these things , and many more which we will not stay to recount , but bring you to the boudoir which Mary has constructed for herself around the dormer-window which looks into the whispering old apple-tree . 
These , Mrs. Katy Scudder had often instructed Mary , were brought from the Indies by her great-great-grandfather , and were her grandmother 's wedding-curtains , -- the grandmother who had blue eyes like hers and was just about her height . 
The next spread was spun and woven by Mrs. Katy 's beloved Aunt Eunice , -- a mythical personage , of whom Mary gathered vague accounts that she was disappointed in love , and that this very article was part of a bridal outfit , prepared in vain , against the return of one from sea , who never came back , -- and she heard of how she sat wearily and patiently at her work , this poor Aunt Eunice , month after month , starting every time she heard the gate shut , every time she heard the tramp of a horse 's hoof , every time she heard the news of a sail in sight , -- her color , meanwhile , fading and fading as life and hope bled away at an inward wound , -- till at last she found comfort and reunion beyond the veil . 
The dusky picture of which we have spoken hung against the rough wall in one place , and in another appeared an old engraved head of one of the Madonnas of Leonardo da Vinci , a picture which to Mary had a mysterious interest , from the fact of its having been cast on shore after a furious storm , and found like a waif lying in the seaweed ; and Mrs. Marvyn , who had deciphered the signature , had not ceased exploring till she found for her , in an Encyclopædia , a life of that wonderful man , whose greatness enlarges our ideas of what is possible to humanity , -- and Mary pondering thereon , felt the seaworn picture as a constant vague inspiration . 
This one week has been a critical one to our Mary ; -- in it , she has made the great discovery , that she loves ; and she has made her first step into the gay world ; and now she comes back to her retirement to think the whole over by herself . 
`` Well , really , Mary , how do you do , to be sure ? 
`` Do you think , '' said Mary , `` that there are a great many made angry ? '' 
-- But you see , Mary , '' said Miss Prissy , sinking her voice again to a solemn whisper , `` I never was clearon that point ; it always did seem to me a dreadful high place to come to , and it did n't seem to be given to me ; but I thought , perhaps , if it wasnecessary , it would be given , you know , -- for the Lord always has been so good to me that I 've faith to believe that , and so I just say , ` The Lord is my shepherd , I shall not want ' '' ; -- and Miss Prissy hastily whisked a little drop out of her blue eye with her handkerchief . 
Why , they say Colonel Burr is struck dead in love with our Mary ; and you know his wife 's dead , and he 's a widower ; and they do say that he 'll get to be the next President . 
Well , Mary must be careful , if she do n't want to be carried off ; for they do say that there ca n't any woman resist him , that sees enough of him . 
`` But she 's a married woman , '' said Mary ; `` it ca n't be possible . '' 
Mrs. Scudder 's first movement , in common with all middle-aged gentlewomen , was to put her hand to her head and reflect that she had not on her best cap ; and Mary looked down at her dimpled hands , which were blue from the contact with mixed yarn she had just been spinning . 
It was just in the midst of this that Mary and her mother entered . 
And soon Colonel Burr , with one on either arm , was to be seen on the top of the hill beyond the house , -- the very one from which Mary , the week before , had seen the retreating sail we all wot of . 
Hence , though her companion contrived , with the adroitness of a practised man of gallantry , to direct his words and looks as constantly to her as if they had been in a tête-a-tête , and although nothing could be more graceful , more delicately flattering , more engaging , still the little heart kept equal poise ; for where a true love has once bolted the door , a false one serenades in vain under the window . 
Some fine , instinctive perceptions of the real character of the man beside her seemed to have dawned on Mary 's mind in the conversation of the morning ; -- she had felt the covert and subtle irony that lurked beneath his polished smile , felt the utter want of faith or sympathy in what she and her revered friend deemed holiest , and therefore there was a calm dignity in her manner of receiving his attentions which rather piqued and stimulated his curiosity . 
He was interested in the spinning , in the weaving , -- and in fact , nobody knows how it was done , but , before the afternoon shadows had turned , he was sitting in the cracked arm-chair of Mary 's garret-boudoir , gravely giving judgment on several specimens of her spinning , which Mrs. Scudder had presented to his notice . 
With that ease with which he could at will glide into the character of the superior and elder brother , he had , without seeming to ask questions , drawn from Mary an account of her reading , her studies , her acquaintances . 
he said to her , with easy negligence . 
Mary colored deeply , and then , as one who recollects one 's self , answered , gravely , -- `` No , Mr. Burr , I know no language but my own . '' 
`` I should be delighted to learn , '' said Mary , `` but have no opportunity . '' 
`` Yes , '' said Mrs. Scudder , -- `` Mary has always had a taste for study , and would be glad to improve in any way . '' 
`` Mrs. Marvyn will , perhaps , join me , '' said Mary . 
`` My little Mary to-day was in a mood of ` sweet austere composure ' quite becoming to her style of beauty ; her naïve nonchalanceat times is rather stimulating . 
What a contrast between her and la belle Française ! 
Thenext morning , before the early dews had yet dried off the grass , Mary started to go and see her friend Mrs. Marvyn . 
As Mary approached the house , she heard loud sounds of discussion from the open kitchen-door , and , looking in , saw a rather original scene acting . 
At this juncture , Mary 's fair face appearing at the door put a stop to the discussion . 
`` Bress you , Miss Mary ! 
Candace , who was about the size of a puncheon , was fond of this familiar manner of representing her mode of ascending the stairs ; but Mary , suppressing a smile , said , `` Oh , no , Candace ! 
And before Candace could stop her , Mary 's light foot was on the top step of the staircase that led up from the kitchen . 
Her large brown eyes had an eager joy in them when Mary entered ; but they seemed to calm down again , and she received her only with that placid , sincere air which was her habit . 
Mary began eagerly detailing to her all that had interested her since they last met : -- the party , -- her acquaintance with Burr , -- his visit to the cottage , -- his inquiries into her education and reading , -- and , finally , the proposal , that they should study French together . 
said Mary , with an air of timid surprise . 
Ever since the last conversation with her mother on the subject of James , Mary had felt a sort of guilty constraint when any one spoke of him ; -- instead of answering frankly , as she once did , when anything brought his name up , she fell at once into a grave , embarrassed silence . 
Mrs. Marvyn had known all the story of her son 's love , and to no other woman would she have been willing to resign him ; but her love to Mary was so deep , that she thought of his union with her more as gaining a daughter than as losing a son . 
She would not speak of the subject ; she knew the feelings of Mary 's mother ; and the name of James fell so often from her lips , simply because it was so ever-present in her heart that it could not be helped . 
Before Mary left , it was arranged that they should study together , and that the lessons should be given alternately at each other 's houses ; and with this understanding they parted . 
The Doctor patiently smoothed back and rearranged , while opposite to him sat Mary , bending over some copying she was doing for him . 
One stray sunbeam fell on her light brown hair , tinging it to gold ; her long , drooping lashes lay over the wax-like pink of her cheeks , as she wrote on . 
`` Mary , '' said the Doctor , pushing the papers from him . 
`` Sir , '' she answered , looking up , the blood just perceptibly rising in her cheeks . 
So Mary understood it , and it was with a deepening flush she answered gently , `` No , Sir . '' 
`` I am sorry , '' said Mary , apologetically ; `` but I do not see how I canhave ; I never could . '' 
Poor Mary was truth itself , and this question distressed her ; she must answer the truth . 
The fact was , that it had never come into her blessed little heart to tremble , for she was one of those children of the bride-chamber who can not mourn because the bridegroom is ever with them ; but then , when she saw the man for whom her reverence was almost like that for her God thus distrustful , thus lowly , she could not but feel that her too calm repose might , after all , be the shallow , treacherous calm of an ignorant , ill-grounded spirit , and therefore , with a deep blush and a faltering voice , she said , -- `` Indeed , I am afraid something must be wrong with me . 
Mary , on the contrary , had the blessed gift of womanhood , -- that vivid life in the soul and sentiment which resists the chills of analysis , as a healthful human heart resists cold ; yet still , all humbly , she thought this perhaps was a defect in herself , and therefore , having confessed , in a depreciating tone , her habits of unanalyzed faith and love , she added , -- `` But , my dear Sir , you are my best friend . 
said Mary , with a tremulous , sorrowful expression on her face , -- `` against my Heavenly Father ? '' 
Her face flushed , and faded ; her eyes kindled eagerly , as if she had something to say , and then grew misty with tears . 
At last she said , -- `` Thank you , my dear , faithful friend ! 
Mary went into her own little room , and sat leaning for a long time with her elbow on the window-seat , watching the pale shells of the apple-blossoms as they sailed and fluttered downward into the grass , and listened to a chippering conversation in which the birds in the nest above were settling up their small housekeeping accounts for the day . 
After awhile , she took her pen and wrote the following , which the Doctor found the next morning lying on his study-table : -- `` My dear , honored friend , -- How can I sufficiently thank you for your faithfulness with me ? 
Mary thought , when she came in , that she had never seen anything so splendid . 
She was dressed in a black velvet riding-habit , buttoned to the throat with coral ; her riding-hat drooped with its long plumes so as to cast a shadow over her animated face , out of which her dark eyes shone like jewels , and her pomegranate cheeks glowed with the rich shaded radiance of one of Rembrandt 's pictures . 
Something quaint and foreign , something poetic and strange , marked each turn of her figure , each article of her dress , down to the sculptured hand on which glittered singular and costly rings , -- and the riding-glove , embroidered with seed-pearls , that fell carelessly beside her on the floor . 
Burr watched Mary with a keen eye , to see if she were dazzled and overawed . 
All the slumbering poetry within her seemed to awaken at the presence of her beautiful neighbor , -- as when one , for the first time , stands before the great revelations of Art . 
Mary 's cheek glowed , her eyes seemed to grow deep with the enthusiasm of admiration , and , after a few moments , it seemed as if her delicate face and figure reflected the glowing loveliness of her visitor , just as the virgin snows of the Alps become incarnadine as they stand opposite the glorious radiance of a sunset sky . 
Madame de Frontignac was accustomed to the effect of her charms ; but there was so much love in the admiration now directed towards her , that her own warm nature was touched , and she threw out the glow of her feelings with a magnetic power . 
Mary never felt the cold , habitual reserve of her education so suddenly melt , never felt herself so naturally falling into language of confidence and endearment with a stranger ; and as her face , so delicate and spiritual , grew bright with love , Madame de Frontignac thought she had never seen anything so beautiful , and , stretching out her hands towards her , she exclaimed , in her own language , -- `` Mais , mon Dieu ! 
Mary 's deep blush , at her ignorance of the language in which her visitor spoke , recalled her to herself ; -- she laughed a clear , silvery laugh , and laid her jewelled little hand on Mary 's with a caressing movement . 
`` Heshall not teach you French , ma toute belle , '' she said , indicating the Abbé , by a pretty , wilful gesture ; `` Iwill teach you ; -- and you shall teach me English . 
she said . 
There was something inexpressibly pretty and quaint in the childish lisp with which she pronounced English . 
Mary was completely won over . 
She could have fallen into the arms of this wondrously beautiful fairy princess , expecting to be carried away by her to Dream-land . 
He smiled quietly when he saw the effect Madame de Frontignac produced on Mary . 
Madame de Frontignac was enthusiastic in Mary 's praise . 
`` Cependant , '' she said , leaning back , thoughtfully , after having exhausted herself in superlatives , -- `` cependant elle est dévote , -- et à dix-neuf comment cela se peut il ? '' 
The thought of Mary 's saintly face and tender eyes rose before her as the moon rises on the eyes of some hot and fevered invalid , inspiring vague yearnings after an unknown , unattainable peace . 
Could some friendly power have made her at that time clairvoyant and shown her the realityof the man whom she was seeing through the prismatic glass of her own enkindled ideality ! 
Could she have seen the calculating quietness in which , during the intervals of a restless and sleepless ambition , he played upon her heart-strings , as one uses a musical instrument to beguile a passing hour , -- how his only embarrassment was the fear that the feelings he was pleased to excite might become too warm and too strong , while as yet his relations to her husband were such as to make it dangerous to arouse his jealousy ! 
Madame de Frontignac seemed to conceive for Mary one of those passionate attachments which women often conceive for anything fair and sympathizing , at those periods when their whole inner being is made vital by the approaches of a grand passion . 
It took only a few visits to make her as familiar as a child at the cottage ; and the whole air of the Faubourg St. Germain seemed to melt away from her , as , with the pliability peculiar to her nation , she blended herself with the quiet pursuits of the family . 
Sometimes , in simple straw hat and white wrapper , she would lie down in the grass under the apple-trees , or join Mary in an expedition to the barn for hen 's eggs , or a run along the sea-beach for shells ; and her childish eagerness and delight on these occasions used to arouse the unqualified astonishment of Mrs. Katy Scudder . 
He read me a beautiful story from the ` Odyssey , ' about how Penelope cheated her lovers with her spinning , while she was waiting for her husband to come home ; -- hewas gone to sea , Mary , -- her truelove , -- you understand . '' 
She turned on Mary a wicked glance , so full of intelligence that the snowdrop grew red as the inside of a sea-shell . 
she said to Mary , one day , as they sat together in the grass under the apple-trees . 
said Mary , with a startled and guilty look . 
said the fairy princess , whimsically mimicking her accent . 
she said , laying her hand playfully on Mary 's heart . 
she said , gravely , and almost sorrowfully , `` if you love him , wait for him , -- do n't marry another!It is dreadful not to have one 's heart go with one 's duty . '' 
`` I shall never marry anybody , '' said Mary . 
said the lady , imitating her accents in tones much like those of a bobolink . 
But , ma chère , '' she added , in a low tone , `` do n't you ever marry that good man in there ; priests should not marry . '' 
`` Ours are not priests , -- they are ministers , '' said Mary . 
said the lady , shaking her head gravely ; `` she sees he loves little Mary . '' 
-- ah , yes ; and by-and-by comes the mamma , and she takes this little hand , and she says , ` Come , Mary ! ' 
and then she gives it to him ; and then the poor jeune homme , when he comes back , finds not a bird in his poor little nest . 
she said , throwing herself back in the grass till the clover-heads and buttercups closed over her . 
-- `` I do assure you , dear Mary , Virginie knows.So lock up her words in your little heart ; you will want them some day . '' 
A thought seemed to cross Mary 's mind , as she turned to Madame de Frontignac , and said , earnestly , -- `` If a good man were my husband , I would never think of another , -- I would n't let myself . '' 
Mary said , after a moment 's blush , -- `` I can try ! '' 
But to try all one 's life , -- oh , Mary , that is too hard ! 
This conversation occurred just before Madame de Frontignac started for Philadelphia , whither her husband had been summoned as an agent in some of the ambitious intrigues of Burr . 
It was with a sigh of regret that she parted from her friends at the cottage . 
She made them a hasty good-bye call , -- alighting from a splendid barouche with two white horses , and filling their simple best-room with the light of her presence for a last half-hour . 
When she bade good-bye to Mary , she folded her warmly to her heart , and her long lashes drooped heavily with tears . 
After her absence , the lessons were still pursued with the gentle , quiet little Abbé , who seemed the most patient and assiduous of teachers ; but , in both houses , there was that vague ennui , that sense of want , which follows the fading of one of life 's beautiful dreams ! 
We bid her adieu for a season ; -- we may see her again . 
A year had passed since the June afternoon when first we showed you Mary standing under the spotty shadows of the tree , with the white dove on her hand , -- a year in which not many outward changes have been made in the relations of the actors of our story . 
Mary calmly spun and read and thought ; now and then composing with care very English-French letters , to be sent to Philadelphia to Madame de Frontignac , and receiving short missives of very French-English in return . 
The cautions of Madame , in regard to the Doctor , had not rippled the current of their calm , confiding intercourse ; and the Doctor , so very satisfied and happy in her constant society and affection , scarcely as yet meditated distinctly that he needed to draw her more closely to himself . 
If he had a passage to read , a page to be copied , a thought to express , was she not ever there , gentle , patient , unselfish ? 
and scarce by the absence of a day did she let him perceive that his need of her was becoming so absolute that his hold on her must needs be made permanent . 
Somehow she never thought without a certain heart-sinking of Mary 's look and tone the night she spoke with her about James ; she had an awful presentiment that that tone of voice belonged to the things that can not be shaken . 
But yet , Mary seemed so even , so quiet , her delicate form filled out and rounded so beautifully , and she sang so cheerfully at her work , and , above all , she was so entirely silent about James , that Mrs. Scudder had hope . 
Poor Mary 's little nest was along the sedgy margin of the sea-shore , where grow the tufts of golden rod , where wave the reeds , where crimson , green , and purple seaweeds float up , like torn fringes of Nereid vestures , and gold and silver shells lie on the wet wrinkles of the sands . 
The sea had become to her like a friend , with its ever-varying monotony . 
Somehow she loved this old , fresh , blue , babbling , restless giant , who had carried away her heart 's love to hide him in some far-off palmy island , such as she had often heard him tell of in his sea-romances . 
Sometimes she would wander out for an afternoon 's stroll on the rocks , and pause by the great Spouting Cave , now famous to Newport dilettanti , but then a sacred and impressive solitude . 
Mary often sat and listened to this hollow noise , and watched the ever-rising columns of spray as they reddened with the transpiercing beams of the afternoon sun ; and thence her eye travelled far , far off over the shimmering starry blue , where sails looked no bigger than miller 's wings ; and it seemed sometimes as if a door were opening by which her soul might go out into some eternity , -- some abyss , so wide and deep , that fathomless lines of thought could not sound it . 
She was no longer a girl in a mortal body , but an infinite spirit , the adoring companion of Infinite Beauty and Infinite Love . 
Towards evening , one afternoon in the latter part of June , Mary returned from one of these lonely walks by the sea , and entered the kitchen . 
From the half-closed door of her mother 's bedroom , which stood ajar , she heard the chipper of Miss Prissy 's voice . 
She stayed her light footsteps , and the words that fell on her ear were these : -- `` Miss Marvyn fainted dead away ; -- she stood it till it came to that ; but then she just clapped both hands together , as if she 'd been shot , and fell right forward on the floor in a faint ! '' 
There was a quick , intense whirl of thoughts in Mary 's mind , and then came one of those awful moments when the powers of life seem to make a dead pause and all things stand still ; and then all seemed to fail under her , and the life to sink down , down , down , till nothing was but one dim , vague , miserable consciousness . 
Mrs. Scudder and Miss Prissy were sitting , talking earnestly , on the foot of the bed , when the door opened noiselessly , and Mary glided to them like a spirit , -- no color in cheek or lip , -- her blue eyes wide with calm horror ; and laying her little hand , with a nervous grasp , on Miss Prissy 's arm , she said , -- `` Tell me , -- what is it ? 
`` I shall tryto be still , mother , '' said Mary with a piteous , hopeless voice , like the bleat of a dying lamb ; `` but I did not think he coulddie ! 
They laid her on her mother 's bed , -- the first and last resting-place of broken hearts , -- and the mother sat down by her in silence . 
The Doctor entered the room where Mary was lying with closed eyes . 
Those few moments seemed to have done the work of years , -- so pale , and faded , and sunken she looked ; nothing but the painful flutter of the eyelids and lips showed that she yet breathed . 
Mary rose early and was about her morning work . 
Her education was that of the soldier , who must know himself no more , whom no personal pain must swerve from the slightest minutiæ of duty . 
So she was there , at her usual hour , dressed with the same cool neatness , her brown hair parted in satin bands , and only the colorless cheek and lip differing from the Mary of yesterday . 
Mary never thought of such a thing as self-indulgence ; -- this daughter of the Puritans had her seed within her . 
Mary , therefore , opened the kitchen-door at dawn , and , after standing one moment to breathe the freshness , began spreading the cloth for an early breakfast . 
`` Mary , my dear , '' she said , `` the eggs are giving out ; had n't you better run to the barn and get a few ? '' 
Mary went into the barn , stopped a moment , and took out a handful of corn to throw to her hens , who had a habit of running towards her and cocking an expectant eye to her little hand , whenever she appeared . 
All came at once flying towards her , -- speckled , white , and gleamy with hues between of tawny orange-gold , -- the cocks , magnificent with the blade-like waving of their tails , -- and , as they chattered and cackled and pressed and crowded about her , pecking the corn , even where it lodged in the edge of her little shoes , she said , `` Poor things , I am glad they enjoy it ! '' 
-- and even this one little act of love to the ignorant fellowship below her carried away some of the choking pain which seemed all the while suffocating her heart . 
Then , climbing into the hay , she sought the nest and filled her little basket with eggs , warm , translucent , pinky-white in their freshness . 
She felt , for a moment , the customary animation in surveying her new treasures ; but suddenly , like a vision rising before her , came a remembrance of once when she and James were children together and had been seeking eggs just there . 
He flashed before her eyes , the bright boy with the long black lashes , the dimpled cheeks , the merry eyes , just as he stood and threw the hay over her when they tumbled and laughed together , -- and she sat down with a sick faintness , and then turned and walked wearily in . 
Maryreturned to the house with her basket of warm , fresh eggs , which she set down mournfully upon the table . 
In her heart there was one conscious want and yearning , and that was to go to the friends of him she had lost , -- to go to his mother . 
Her dove came fluttering down out of the tree , and settled on her hand , and began asking in his dumb way to be noticed . 
Mary stroked his white feathers , and bent her head down over them , till they were wet with tears . 
she said . 
Then suddenly putting it gently from her , and going near and throwing her arms around her mother 's neck , -- `` Mother , '' she said , `` I want to go up to Cousin Ellen 's . '' 
-LRB- This was the familiar name by which she always called Mrs. Marvyn . -RRB- 
The breakfast for the hired men was soon arranged on the table , and Mary sat down to preside while her mother was going on with her baking , -- introducing various loaves of white and brown bread into the capacious oven by means of a long iron shovel , and discoursing at intervals with Solomon , with regard to the different farming operations which he had in hand for the day . 
Solomon was a tall , large-boned man , brawny and angular ; with a face tanned by the sun , and graven with those considerate lines which New England so early writes on the faces of her sons . 
Amaziah was one of those uncouth overgrown boys of eighteen whose physical bulk appears to have so suddenly developed that the soul has more matter than she has learned to recognize , so that the hapless individual is always awkwardly conscious of too much limb ; and in Amaziah 's case , this consciousness grew particularly distressing when Mary was in the room . 
He liked to have her there , he said , -- `` but , somehow , she was so white and pretty , she made him feel sort o ' awful-like . '' 
Mary did not answer . 
She could not grow any paler than she was before ; a dreadful curiosity came over her , but her lips could frame no question . 
Here Mary 's paleness became livid ; she made a hasty motion to rise from the table , and Solomon trod on the foot of the narrator . 
`` You seem to forget that friends and relations has feelin 's , '' he said , as Mary hastily went into her own room . 
At eight o'clock all the morning toils were over , the wide kitchen cool and still , and the one-horse wagon standing at the door , into which climbed Mary , her mother , and the Doctor ; for , though invested with no spiritual authority , and charged with no ritual or form for hours of affliction , the religion of New England always expects her minister as a first visitor in every house of mourning . 
This conversation fell on the soul of Mary like the sound of clods falling on a coffin to the ear of one buried alive ; -- she heard it with a dull , smothering sense of suffocation . 
-- and about one , too , for whom she could have given her own soul ? 
At this moment she felt how idle is the mere hope or promise of personal salvation made to one who has passed beyond the life of self , and struck deep the roots of his existence in others . 
She did not utter a word ; -- how could she ? 
A doubt , -- the faintest shadow of a doubt , -- in such a case , falls on the soul with the weight of mountain certainty ; and in that short ride she felt what an infinite pain may be locked in one small , silent breast . 
She said not a word , but pointed with her finger towards the inner room ; but as Mary lifted up her faded , weary face to hers , her whole soul seemed to heave towards her like a billow , and she took her up in her arms and broke forth into sobbing , and , carrying her in , as if she had been a child , set her down in the inner room and sat down beside her . 
Mrs. Marvyn started as if a sword had pierced her , passed her arm round Mary 's waist , with a strong , nervous clasp , unlike her usual calm self , and said , -- `` Stay with me , daughter , to-day ! 
`` Mary can stay as long as you wish , cousin , '' said Mrs. Scudder ; `` we have nothing to call her home . '' 
said Mrs. Marvyn to Mary opening an adjoining door into her bedroom , and drawing her in with a sort of suppressed vehemence , -- `` I want you ! 
`` Perhaps she will feel more freedom with Mary , '' said the Doctor . 
After a few moments more of conference , Mrs. Scudder and the Doctor departed , leaving Mary alone in the house of mourning . 
Mary was by nature of the class who never reason abstractly , whose intellections all begin in the heart , which sends them colored with its warm life-tint to the brain . 
Her perceptions of the same subjects were as different from Mrs. Marvyn 's as his who revels only in color from his who is busy with the dry details of mere outline . 
Mrs. Marvyn had never , in all the course of their intimacy , opened her mouth to Mary on the subject of religion . 
When Mrs. Marvyn had drawn Mary with her into her room , she seemed like a person almost in frenzy . 
`` Mary , '' she said , `` I ca n't help it , -- do n't mind what I say , but I must speak or die ! 
Mary , I can not , will not , be resigned ! 
`` But , Mary , think what a moment life is ! 
-- Mary ! 
Pale , aghast , horror-stricken , Mary stood dumb , as one who in the dark and storm sees by the sudden glare of lightning a chasm yawning under foot . 
It was amazement and dimness of anguish ; -- the dreadful words struck on the very centre where her soul rested . 
She felt as if the point of a wedge were being driven between her life and her life 's life , -- between her and her God . 
She clasped her hands instinctively on her bosom , as if to hold there some cherished image , and said , in a piercing voice of supplication , `` MyGod ! 
Mary was alarmed , -- the ecstacy of despair was just verging on insanity . 
She rushed out and called Mr. Marvyn . 
she said . 
These words were uttered in a shriek that went through Mary 's heart like an arrow . 
`` Honey , '' said Candace , mysteriously , after she had drawn Mary out of the room , `` do n't ye go for to troublin ' yer mind wid dis yer . 
Mary remained many days at the white house , because , to the invalid , no step , no voice , no hand was like hers . 
We see her there now , as she sits in the glimmering by the bed-curtains , -- her head a little drooped , as droops a snowdrop over a grave ; -- one ray of light from a round hole in the closed shutters falls on her smooth-parted hair , her small hands are clasped on her knees , her mouth has lines of sad compression , and in her eyes are infinite questionings . 
Marvyn began to amend , Mary returned to the home cottage , and resumed the details of her industrious and quiet life . 
Between her and her two best friends had faller a curtain of silence . 
The subject that filled all her thoughts could not be named between them . 
The Doctor often looked at her pale cheeks and drooping form with a face of honest sorrow , and heaved deep sighs as she passed ; but he did not find any power within himself by which he could approach her . 
When he would speak , and she turned her sad , patient eyes so gently on him , the words went back again to his heart , and there , taking a second thought , spread upward wing in prayer . 
For hours Mary sat in her room with James 's last letter spread out before her . 
How anxiously had she studied every word and phrase in it , weighing them to see if the hope of eternal life were in them ! 
How she dwelt on those last promises ! 
Would no angel tell her ? 
-- she had read of such things ; -- perhaps -- Ah , in that perhaps lies a world of anguish ! 
The soul fatigues itself with efforts which come and go in waves ; and when with laborious care she has adjusted all things in the light of hope , back flows the tide , and sweeps all away . 
Mary sat at her window in evening hours , and watched the slanting sunbeams through the green blades of grass , and thought one year ago he stood there , with his well-knit , manly form , his bright eye , his buoyant hope , his victorious mastery of life ! 
Was his heart as sick , longing for her , as hers for him ? 
If he were among the lost , in what age of eternity could she ever be blessed ? 
She had been taught that the agonies of the lost would be forever in sight of the saints , without abating in the least their eternal joys ; nay , that they would find in it increasing motives to praise and adoration . 
Once only , with Mary , she alluded to the conversation which had passed between them ; -- it was one day when they were together , spinning , in the north upper room that looked out upon the sea . 
Mrs. Marvyn watched it a few moments , -- the gay creature , so full of exultant life , -- and then smothered down an inward groan , and Mary thought she heard her saying , `` Thy will be done ! '' 
`` Mary , '' she said , gently , `` I hope you will forget all I said to you that dreadful day . 
Mary , I begin to think that it is not best to stretch our minds with reasonings where we are so limited , where we can know so little . 
Mary , I feel that I must love more , to give up one of my children to suffer , than to consent to suffer myself . 
So , Mary , I try Candace 's way , -- I look at Christ , -- I pray to Him . 
Mary kept all things and pondered them in her heart . 
She could speak to no one , -- not to her mother , nor to her spiritual guide ; for had she not passed to a region beyond theirs ? 
Then came the fulness of mysterious communion given to the pure in heart , -- that advent of the Comforter in the soul , teaching all things and bringing all things to remembrance ; and Mary moved in a world transfigured by a celestial radiance . 
Her face , so long mournfully calm , like some chiselled statue of Patience , now wore a radiance , as when one places a light behind some alabaster screen sculptured with mysterious and holy emblems , and words of strange sweetness broke from her , as if one should hear snatches of music from a door suddenly opened in heaven . 
Something wise and strong and sacred gave an involuntary impression of awe in her looks and words ; -- it was not the childlike loveliness of early days , looking with dovelike , ignorant eyes on sin and sorrow ; but the victorious sweetness of that great multitude who have come out of great tribulation , having washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb . 
In her eyes there was that nameless depth that one sees with awe in the Sistine Madonna , -- eyes that have measured infinite sorrow and looked through it to an infinite peace . 
`` Mary was always a silent girl , '' said Mrs. Scudder , `` and not given to speaking of her own feelings ; indeed , until she gave you an account of her spiritual state , on joining the church , I never knew what her exercises were . 
I never knew the time when she did not seem to love God more than anything else . 
`` I have observed of late , '' said Mrs. Scudder , `` that , in our praying circles , Mary seemed much carried out of herself , and often as if she would speak , and with difficulty holding herself back . 
I have not urged her , because I thought it best to wait till she should feel full liberty . '' 
`` Therein you do rightly , Madam , '' said the Doctor ; `` but I am persuaded you will hear from her yet . '' 
Miss Prissy came rushing homeward , to hold a private congratulatory talk with the Doctor and Mrs. Scudder , while Mary was tranquilly setting the tea-table and cutting bread for supper . 
`` To see her now , certainly , '' said Miss Prissy , `` moving round so thoughtful , not forgetting anything , and doing everything so calm , you would n't ` a ' thought it could be her that spoke those blessed words and made that prayer ! 
Oh , Miss Scudder , her afflictions have been sanctified to her ! 
-- and really , when I see her going on so , I feel she ca n't be long for us . 
`` She is a precious gift , '' said the Doctor ; `` let us thank the Lord for his grace through her . 
She has evidently had a manifestation of the Beloved , and feedeth among the lilies -LRB- Canticles , vi . 
3 -RRB- ; and we will not question the Lord 's further dispensations concerning her . '' 
Did you see the Doctor 's face when we was talking to him about Mary ? 
It 's my belief that that blessed man worships the ground she treads on . 
I do n't mean worships , either , -- 'cause that would be wicked , and he 's too good a man to make a graven image of anything , -- but it 's clear to see that there a 'n' t anybody in the world like Mary to him . 
I always did think so ; but I used to think Mary was such a little poppet -- that she 'd do better for -- Well , you know , I thought about some younger man ; -- but , laws , now I see how she rises up to be ahead of every body , and is so kind of solemn-like . 
Just at this moment Mary 's clear voice at the door announced that tea was on the table . 
In this mood she now approached Mrs. Scudder , and , holding up her hand on the door-side to prevent consequences , if , after all , she should be betrayed into a loud word , she said , `` I thought I 'd just say , Miss Scudder , that , in case Mary should -- the Doctor , -- in case , you know , there should be a -- in the house , you mustjust contrive it so as to give me a month 's notice , so that I could give you a whole fortnight to fix her up as such a good man 's -- ought to be . 
I saw the Doctor look at Mary that night I dressed her for the wedding-party . 
Little thought Mary of any of the speculations that busied the friendly head of Miss Prissy , or that lay in the provident forecastings of her prudent mother . 
It was so with Mary : the thousand fibres that bind youth and womanhood to earthly love and life were all in her as still as the grave , and only the spiritual and divine part of her being was active . 
Her hopes , desires , and aspirations were all such as she could have had in greater perfection as a disembodied spirit than as a mortal woman . 
No veiled nun , with her shrouded forehead and downcast eyes , ever moved about a convent with a spirit more utterly divided from the world than Mary moved about her daily employments . 
Her care about the details of life seemed more than ever minute ; she was always anticipating her mother in every direction , and striving by a thousand gentle preveniences to save her from fatigue and care ; there was even a tenderness about her ministrations , as if the daughter had changed feelings and places with the mother . 
Well , I must say , I never saw such a good man ; he is the only man I ever saw good enough for our Mary . '' 
Another spring came round , and brought its roses , and the apple-trees blossomed for the third time since the commencement of our story ; and the robins had rebuilt their nest , and began to lay their blue eggs in it ; and Mary still walked her calm course , as a sanctified priestess of the great worship of sorrow . 
Many were the hearts now dependent on her , the spiritual histories , the threads of which were held in her loving hand , -- many the souls burdened with sins , or oppressed with sorrow , who found in her bosom at once confessional and sanctuary . 
So many sought her prayers , that her hours of intercession were full , and often needed to be lengthened to embrace all for whom she would plead . 
United to the good Doctor by a constant friendship and fellowship , she had gradually grown accustomed to the more and more intimate manner in which he regarded her , -- which had risen from a simple `` dear child , '' and `` dear Mary , '' to `` dear friend , '' and at last `` dearest of all friends , '' which he frequently called her , encouraged by the calm , confiding sweetness of those still , blue eyes , and that gentle smile , which came without one varying flutter of the pulse or the rising of the slightest flush on the marble cheek . 
Dear little Mary , I am sad , very sad ; -- the days seem all of them too long ; and every morning I look out of my window and wonder why I was born . 
`` But I am very selfish , dear little Mary , to think only of myself , when I know how you must suffer . 
Mary was spinning in her garret-boudoir , and Mrs. Scudder was at that moment at a little distance from the house , sprinkling some linen , which was laid out to bleach on the green turf of the clothes-yard . 
Madame de Frontignac sent away the carriage , and ran up the stairway , pursuing the sound of Mary 's spinning-wheel , mingled with her song ; and in a moment , throwing aside the curtain , she seized Mary in her arms , and kissed her on either cheek , laughing and crying both at once . 
It 's a good while since we spun together , mimi!Ah , Mary , darling , little do we know what we spin ! 
Madame de Frontignac spoke with tears in her own eyes , passing her hand caressingly over the fair cheeks . 
`` And you have grown pale , too , dear Madame , '' said Mary , looking up , and struck with the change in the once brilliant face . 
At home I wear rouge ; that makes all right ; -- but I do n't put it on for you , Mary ; you see me just as I am . '' 
Mary could not but notice the want of that brilliant color and roundness in the cheek , which once made so glowing a picture ; the eyes seemed larger and tremulous with a pathetic depth , and around them those bluish circles that speak of languor and pain . 
Still , changed as she was , Madame de Frontignac seemed only more strikingly interesting and fascinating than ever . 
Still she had those thousand pretty movements , those nameless graces of manner , those wavering shades of expression , that irresistibly enchained the eye and the imagination , -- true Frenchwoman as she was , always in one rainbow shimmer of fancy and feeling , like one of those cloud-spotted April days which give you flowers and rain , sun and shadow , and snatches of bird-singing , all at once . 
`` I have sent away my carriage , Mary , and come to stay with you . 
she said , coaxingly , with her arms round Mary 's neck ; `` if you do n't , tant pis!for I am the bad penny you English speak of , -- you can not get me off . '' 
`` I am sure , dear friend , '' said Mary , earnestly , `` we do n't want to put you off . '' 
But you , my poor Mary , your cheeks are very white ; poor little heart you suffer ! '' 
`` No , '' said Mary ; `` I do not suffer now . 
There was something sadly sublime in the manner in which this was said , -- and something so sacred in the expression of Mary 's face that Madame de Frontignac crossed herself , as she had been wont before a shrine ; and then said , `` Sweet Mary , pray for me ; I am not at peace ; I can not get the victory over sorrow . '' 
said Mary , -- `` you , so beautiful , so rich , so admired , whom everybody must love ? 
But you must sit down there , '' she said , placing Mary on a low seat in the garret-window ; `` and Virginie will sit here , '' she said , drawing a bundle of uncarded wool towards her , and sitting down at Mary 's feet . 
`` Dear Madame , '' said Mary , `` let me get you a better seat . '' 
`` No , no , mignonne , this is best ; I want to lay my head in your lap '' ; -- and she took off her riding-hat with its streaming plume , and tossed it carelessly from her , and laid her head down on Mary 's lap . 
Do you know , '' she said , raising her head with a sudden brightening of cheek and eye , `` do you know that there are two mesto this person ? 
`` Dear Virginie , '' said Mary , `` how I love you ! '' 
`` Do you Mary , -- bien sûr?You are my good angel ! 
Oh , Mary , darling , I have been very foolish and very miserable , and sometimes tempted to be very , very bad ! 
Mary 's eyes questioned her companion with an expression of eager sympathy , somewhat blended with curiosity . 
You see , dear Mary , my dear angel mamma died when I was very little , and I was sent to be educated at the Sacré Cœur in Paris I was very happy and very good in those days ; the sisters loved me , and I loved them ; and I used to be so pious , and loved God dearly . 
`` Well , Mary , when we came to Philadelphia , I heard everybody speaking of Colonel Burr , and what a fascinating man he was ; and I thought it would be a pretty thing to have him in my train , -- and so I did all I could to charm him . 
Mary , he was stronger than I was . 
Monsieur de Frontignac was as much charmed with him as I was ; he often told me that he was his best friend , -- that he was his hero , his model man ; and I thought , -- oh , Mary , you would wonder to hear me say what I thought ! 
Oh , Mary , it was as if the earth had opened under me ! 
Oh , Mary , I dare not tell you half what he told me , -- dreadful things that make me shiver when I think of them ! 
Oh , Mary , we never know how we love till we try to unlove ! 
Oh , Mary , I found I was mistaken in him , -- all , all , wholly ! '' 
Madame de Frontignac laid her forehead on Mary 's knee , and her long chestnut hair drooped down over her face . 
Madame de Frontignac paused a moment , and then said , rising with sudden energy , -- `` Mary , that man never loved me ; he can not love ; he does not know what love is . 
Mary 's enchanted eye followed the beautiful narrator , as she enacted before her this poetry and tragedy of real life , so much beyond what dramatic art can ever furnish . 
Her eyes grew splendid in their depth and brilliancy ; sometimes they were full of tears , and sometimes they flashed out like lightnings ; her whole form seemed to be a plastic vehicle which translated every emotion of her soul ; and Mary sat and looked at her with the intense absorption that one gives to the highest and deepest in Art or Nature . 
she said at last , suddenly stopping , and drooping in every limb . 
`` Mary , I have lived on this dream so long ! 
`` I think , Mary , '' she added , pointing to the nest in the tree , `` I see my life in many things . 
said Mary ; `` would you , if you could ? '' 
Dear Mary , you must have suffered , too , -- for you loved really , -- I saw it ; -- when we feel a thing ourselves , we can see very quick the same in others ; -- and it was a dreadful blow to come so all at once . '' 
`` Yes , it was , '' said Mary ; `` I thought I must die ; but Christ has given me peace . '' 
There was a little pause in the conversation and then Virginie raised her head and spoke in a sprightlier tone . 
Poor Virginie wants something to hold to her heart ; let me have you , '' she said , throwing her arms round Mary . 
said Mary . 
Mary , I have many thoughts that I dare not tell to any one , lately , -- but I can not help feeling that some are real Christians who are not in the True Church . 
This was a new view of the subject to Mary , who had grown up with the familiar idea that the Romish Church was Babylon and Antichrist , and who , during the conversation , had been revolving the same surmises with regard to her friend . 
She turned her grave , blue eyes on Madame de Frontignac with a somewhat surprised look , which melted into a half-smile . 
But you , dear Mary , you love Jesus as your life . 
`` All are one who love Christ , '' said Mary ; `` we are one in Him . '' 
`` I should not dare to tell the Abbé , '' said Madame de Frontignac ; and Mary queried in her heart , whether Dr. Hopkins would feel satisfied that she could bring this wanderer to the fold of Christ without undertaking to batter down the walls of her creed ; and yet , there they were , the Catholic and the Puritan , each strong in her respective faith , yet melting together in that embrace of love and sorrow , joined in the great communion of suffering . 
Mary took up her Testament , and read the fourteenth chapter of John : -- `` Let not your heart be troubled ; ye believe in God , believe also in me . 
Mary read on through the chapter , -- through the next wonderful prayer ; her face grew solemnly transparent , as of an angel ; for her soul was lifted from earth by the words , and walked with Christ far above all things , over that starry pavement where each footstep is on a world . 
Virginie rose at last , and kissed Mary on the forehead . 
`` That is a beautiful book , '' she said , `` and to read it all by one 's self must be lovely . 
`` Sweet saint , '' she added , `` let me stay with you ; you shall read to me every day . 
`` Yes , indeed , '' said Mary , with a cheek brighter than it had been for many a day ; her heart feeling a throb of more real human pleasure than for long months . 
`` Why , do you really want to stay here with us , '' said Mary , `` in this little house ? '' 
said Virginie , mimicking her voice with a start of her old playfulness ; -- `` do n'tI really ? 
`` I should love to have you dearly , '' said Mary , warmly ; `` but you would soon be dull for want of society here . '' 
said the lady , -- who , with the mobility of her nation , had already recovered some of the saucy mocking grace that was habitual to her , as she began teasing Mary with a thousand little childish motions . 
Mary looked at her with inquiring eyes . 
`` I mean , Mary , -- I mean , that , when hecomes back to Philadelphia , he thinks he shall find me there ; he thought I should stay while my husband was gone ; and when he finds I am gone , he may come to Newport ; and I never want to see him again without you ; -- you must let me stay with you . '' 
`` Have you told him , '' said Mary , `` what you think ? '' 
`` I wrote to him , Mary , -- but , oh , I ca n't trust my heart ! 
`` But now you know his unworthiness , his baseness , '' said Mary , `` I should think it would break all his power . '' 
Ah , Mary , we can not unlove in a minute ; love is a great while dying . 
I should like to cover it from all the world , -- even from you , Mary , since I see it makes you dislike him ; it hurts me to hear any one else blame him . 
No , -- Mary , you must keep your blue eyes upon me , or I shall be gone . '' 
At this moment Mrs. Scudder 's voice was heard , calling Mary below . 
`` Go down now , darling , and tell mamma ; make a good little talk to her , ma reine!Ah , you are queen here ! 
But then she was a Catholic , -- con.But the Doctor and Mary might convert her , -- pro.And then Mary wanted her , -- pro.And she was a pretty , bewitching , lovable creature , -- pro . 
-- The proshad it ; and it was agreed that Madame de Frontignac should be installed as proprietress of the spare chamber , and she sat down to the tea-table that evening in the great kitchen . 
Mary could not but laugh ; and as she laughed , more color rose in her waxen cheeks than for many days before . 
`` Oh , I have ever so many now , '' said Mary , running into her room , and coming back with a little bag . 
Suddenly Mary put her hand to her heart as if she had been struck with something ; and Madame de Frontignac heard her say , in a low voice of sudden pain , `` Oh , dear ! '' 
she said , looking up quickly . 
`` Nothing , '' said Mary , turning her head . 
Madame de Frontignac looked down , and saw among the sea-treasures a necklace of Venetian shells , that she knew never grew on the shores of Newport . 
She held it up . 
`` Ah , I see , '' she said . 
Ah , ma pauvrette , '' she said , clasping Mary in her arms , `` thy sorrow meets thee everywhere ! 
said Mary , weeping . 
He gave me this , '' she added , `` when he came home from his first voyage to the Mediterranean . 
It is all one , '' she added ; `` there will be a prayer for every shell , though you do not count them . 
That evening , before going to bed , Mrs. Scudder came into Mary 's room . 
Her manner was grave and tender ; her eyes had tears in them ; and although her usual habits were not caressing , she came to Mary and put her arms around her and kissed her . 
It was an unusual manner , and Mary 's gentle eyes seemed to ask the reason of it . 
`` My daughter , '' said her mother , `` I have just had a long and very interesting talk with our dear good friend , the Doctor ; ah , Mary , very few people know how good he is ! '' 
`` True , mother , '' said Mary , warmly ; `` he is the best , the noblest , and yet the humblest man in the world . '' 
said her mother . 
`` Very dearly , '' said Mary . 
`` Mary , he has asked me , this evening , if you would be willing to be his wife . '' 
said Mary , in the tone of one confused with a new and strange thought . 
There was a long pause , -- Mary standing , just as she had been interrupted , in her night toilette , with her long , light hair streaming down over her white dress , and the comb held mechanically in her hand . 
She sat down after a moment , and , clasping her hands over her knees , fixed her eyes intently on the floor ; and there fell between the two a silence so profound , that the tickings of the clock in the next room seemed to knock upon the door . 
`` Well , Mary , '' she said at last . 
Mary gave a great sigh , like that of a sleeper awakening from a dream , and , looking at her mother , said , -- `` Do you suppose he really lovesme , mother ? '' 
`` Indeed he does , Mary , as much as man ever loved woman ! '' 
said Mary , relapsing into thoughtfulness . 
said her mother . 
said Mary , throwing herself passionately forward , and bursting into sobs ; `` yes , there is no one else now that I love better , -- no one ! 
Mary was not one , either , to yield long to emotion of any kind . 
Her rigid education had taught her to look upon all such outbursts as a species of weakness , and she struggled for composure , and soon seemed entirely calm . 
`` If he really loves me , mother , it would give him great pain if I refused , '' said Mary thoughtfully . 
`` Certainly it would ; and , Mary , you have allowed him to act as a very near friend for a long time ; and it is quite natural that he should have hopes that you loved him . '' 
said her mother ; `` I do n't understand you . '' 
`` I wish he did not want to marry me , mother , '' said Mary , after a pause . 
`` All girls feel so , Mary , at first ; it is very natural . '' 
Mrs. Scudder 's heart smote her when she thought of her own early love , -- that great love that asked no questions , -- that had no doubts , no fears , no hesitations , -- nothing but one great , outsweeping impulse , which swallowed her life in that of another . 
She was silent ; and after a moment , she said , -- `` I was of a different disposition from you , Mary . 
And besides , Mary , there never was a man like your father . '' 
`` I am sure , Mary , if you could have heard how he spoke , you would be sure you could make him happy . 
And you know , Mary , he has a great many discouragements and trials ; -- people do n't appreciate him ; his efforts to do good are misunderstood and misconstrued ; they look down on him , and despise him , and tell all sorts of evil things about him ; and sometimes he gets quite discouraged . '' 
`` Yes , mother , I will marry him , '' said Mary ; -- `` yes , I will . '' 
said Mary , with a faint smile ; `` I shall make you happier then ? '' 
`` Mother , I ought to be very glad I can do it , '' said Mary ; `` and I trust I am . 
Mrs. Scudderkissed her daughter , and left her . 
After a moment 's thought , Mary gathered the long silky folds of hair around her head , and knotted them for the night . 
Then leaning forward on her toilet-table , she folded her hands together , and stood regarding the reflection of herself in the mirror . 
The sad , blue eyes that gazed into Mary 's had that look of calm initiation , of melancholy comprehension , peculiar to eyes made clairvoyant by `` great and critical '' sorrow . 
They seemed to say to her , `` Fulfil thy mission ; life is made for sacrifice ; the flower must fall before fruit can perfect itself . '' 
A vague shuddering of mystery gave intensity to her reverie . 
It seemed as if those mirror-depths were another world ; she heard the far-off dashing of sea-green waves ; she felt a yearning impulse towards that dear soul gone out into the infinite unknown . 
Her word just passed had in her eyes all the sacred force of the most solemnly attested vow ; and she felt as if that vow had shut some till then open door between her and him ; she had a kind of shadowy sense of a throbbing and yearning nature that seemed to call on her , -- that seemed surging towards her with an imperative , protesting force that shook her heart to its depths . 
Mary even , for a moment , fancied that a voice called her name , and started , shivering . 
Then the habits of her positive and sensible education returned at once , and she came out of her reverie as one breaks from a dream , and lifted all these sad thoughts with one heavy sigh from her breast ; and opening her Bible , she read : `` They that trust in the Lord shall be as Mount Zion , which can not be removed , but abideth forever . 
Then she kneeled by her bedside , and offered her whole life a sacrifice to the loving God who had offered his life a sacrifice for her . 
She prayed for grace to be true to her promise , -- to be faithful to the new relation she had accepted . 
She prayed that all vain regrets for the past might be taken away , and that her soul might vibrate without discord in unison with the will of Eternal Love . 
So praying , she rose calm , and with that clearness of spirit which follows an act of uttermost self-sacrifice ; and so calmly she laid down and slept , with her two hands crossed upon her breast , her head slightly turned on the pillow , her cheek pale as marble , and her long dark lashes lying drooping , with a sweet expression , as if under that mystic veil of sleep the soul were seeing things forbidden to the waking eye . 
Meanwhile Mrs. Scudder had left Mary 's room , and entered the Doctor 's study , holding a candle in her hand . 
She therefore measured the man with her woman 's and mother 's eye , and said , with a little stateliness , -- `` My dear Sir , I come to tell you the result of my conversation with Mary . '' 
Mrs. Scudder 's womanly dignity was appeased ; she reached out her hand , cheerfully , and said , -- `` She has accepted . '' 
In a few moments he returned to Mrs. Scudder , and said , -- `` I trust , dear Madam , that this very dear friend may never have reason to think me ungrateful for her wonderful goodness ; and whatever sins my evil heart may lead me into , I hopeI may never fall so low as to forget the underserved mercy of this hour . 
Betweenthree and four the next morning , the robin in the nest above Mary 's window stretched out his left wing , opened one eye , and gave a short and rather drowsy chirp , which broke up his night 's rest and restored him to the full consciousness that he was a bird with wings and feathers , with a large apple-tree to live in , and all heaven for an estate , -- and so , on these fortunate premises , he broke into a gush of singing , clear and loud , which Mary , without waking , heard in her slumbers . 
Scarcely conscious , she lay in that dim clairvoyant state , when the half-sleep of the outward senses permits a delicious dewy clearness of the soul , that perfect ethereal rest and freshness of faculties , comparable only to what we imagine of the spiritual state , -- season of celestial enchantment , in which the heavy weight `` of all this unintelligible world '' drops off , and the soul , divinely charmed , nestles like a wind-tossed bird in the protecting bosom of the One All-Perfect , All-Beautiful . 
It was in such hours as these that Mary 's deadly fears for the soul of her beloved had passed all away , -- passed out of her , -- as if some warm , healing nature of tenderest vitality had drawn out of her heart all pain and coldness , and warmed it with the breath of an eternal summer . 
So , while the purple shadows spread their gauzy veils inwoven with fire along the sky , and the gloom of the sea broke out here and there into lines of light , and thousands of birds were answering to each other from apple-tree and meadow-grass , and top of jagged rock , or trooping in bands hither and thither , like angels on loving messages , Mary lay there with the flickering light through the leaves fluttering over her face , and the glow of dawn warming the snow-white draperies of the bed and giving a tender rose-hue to the calm cheek . 
She lay half-conscious , smiling the while , as one who sleeps while the heart waketh , and who hears in dreams the voice of the One Eternally Beautiful and Beloved . 
`` Mary , dear ! '' 
Love in Puritan families was often like latent caloric , -- an all-pervading force , that affected no visible thermometer , shown chiefly by a noble silent confidence , a ready helpfulness , but seldom outbreathed in caresses ; yet natures like Mary 's always craved these outward demonstrations , and leaned towards them as a trailing vine sways to the nearest support . 
It was delightful for once fully to feel how much her mother loved her , as well as to know it . 
`` I live and breathe in you , Mary ! '' 
Mary held her mother silently to her breast , her heart shining through her face with a quiet radiance . 
Mary began dressing herself in a state of calm exaltation . 
`` Well , Mary , he is in his study , at his morning devotions . '' 
Suddenly the door opened , and Mary entered , in her simple white short-gown and skirt , her eyes calmly radiant , and her whole manner having something serious and celestial . 
She came directly towards him and put out both her little hands , with a smile half childlike , half angelic ; and the Doctor bowed his head and covered his face with his hands . 
`` Dear friend , '' said Mary , kneeling and taking his hands , `` if you want me , I am come . 
`` Who is she that looketh forth as the morning , fair as the moon , clear as the sun ? 
My dove , my undefiled , is but one ; she is the only one of her mother . 
She was startled to see the Doctor entering all-radiant , leading in Mary by the hand , and looking as if he thought she were some dream-miracle which might dissolve under his eyes , unless he kept fast hold of her . 
Madame de Frontignac knew they were affianced , and regarded Mary with attention . 
The calm , sweet , elevated expression of her face struck her ; it struck her also that thatwas not the light of any earthly love , -- that it had no thrill , no blush , no tremor , but only the calmness of a soul that knows itself no more ; and she sighed involuntarily She looked at the Doctor , and seemed to study attentively a face which happiness made this morning as genial and attractive as it was generally strong and fine . 
`` Eh bien , ma chère , '' said Madame , after breakfast , drawing Mary into her little room , -- `` c'est donc fini ? '' 
`` Yes , '' said Mary , cheerfully . 
said Madame , passing her arm around her . 
But , Mary , it is like a marriage with the altar , like taking the veil , is it not ? '' 
`` No , '' said Mary ; `` it is not taking the veil ; it is beginning a cheerful , reasonable life with a kind , noble friend , who will always love me truly , and whom I hope to make as happy as he deserves . '' 
`` I think well of him , my little cat , '' said Madame , reflectively ; but she stopped something she was going to say , and kissed Mary 's forehead . 
After a moment 's pause , she added , `` One must have love or refuge , Mary ; -- this is thy refuge , child ; thou wilt have peace in it . '' 
She sighed again . 
`` Enfin , '' she said , resuming her gay tone , `` what shall be la toilette de noces?Thou shalt have Virginie 's pearls , my fair one , and look like a sea-born Venus . 
And in a few moments she had Mary 's long hair down , and was chattering like a blackbird , wreathing the pearls in and out , and saying a thousand pretty little nothings , -- weaving grace and poetry upon the straight thread of Puritan life . 
Many a rustic Venus of the foam , as she splashed her dimpled elbows in the rainbow-tinted froth , talked of what should be done for the forthcoming solemnities , and wondered what Mary would have on when she was married , and whether she -LRB- the Venus -RRB- should get an invitation to the wedding , and whether Ethan would go , -- not , of course , that she cared in the least whether he did or not . 
Well , I thought I could curl in with you , Mary , ` most anywhere . '' 
`` That 's right , Miss Prissy , '' said Mary ; `` you shall be welcome to half my bed any time . '' 
`` Well , I knew you would say so , Mary ; I never saw the thing you would not give away one half of , since you was that high , '' said Miss Prissy , -- illustrating her words by placing her hand about two feet from the floor . 
Just at this moment , Madame de Frontignac entered and asked Mary to come into her room and give her advice as to a piece of embroidery . 
When she was gone out , Miss Prissy looked after her and sunk her voice once more to the confidential whisper which we before described . 
`` I have heard strange stories about that French woman , '' she said ; `` but as she is here with you and Mary , I suppose there can not be any truth in them . 
I suppose she is a Roman Catholic , and worships pictures and stone images ; but then , after all , she has got an immortal soul , and I ca n't help hoping Mary 's influence may be blest to her . 
They say , when she speaks French , she swears every few minutes ; and if that is the way she was brought up , may-be she is n't accountable . 
`` Mary has not said much about her state of mind , '' said Mrs. Scudder ; `` but something of deep interest has passed between them . 
Mary is such an uncommon child , that I trust everything to her . '' 
We will not dwell further on the particulars of this evening , -- nor describe how Madame de Frontignac reconnoitred Miss Prissy with keen , amused eyes , -- nor how Miss Prissy assured Mary , in the confidential solitude of her chamber , that her fingers just itched to get hold of that trimming on Madame de Frog -- something 's dress , because she was pretty nigh sure she could make some just like it , for she never saw any trimming she could not make . 
The robin that lived in the apple-tree was fairly outgeneralled the next morning ; for Miss Prissy was up before him , tripping about the chamber on the points of her toes , knocking down all the movable things in the room , in her efforts to be still , so as not to wake Mary ; and it was not until she had finally upset the stand by the bed , with the candlestick , snuffers , and Bible on it , that Mary opened her eyes . 
`` Why , I am trying to be still , Mary , so as not to wake you up ; and it seems to me as if everything was possessed , to tumble down so . 
`` But , Miss Prissy , '' said Mary , sitting up in bed , `` you are all dressed ; where are you going ? '' 
`` Well , to tell the truth , Mary , I am just one of those people that ca n't sleep when they have got responsibility on their minds ; and I have been lying awake more than an hour here , thinking about that quilt . 
`` Mary , '' she added , with sudden energy , `` If I had the least drop of oil in a teacup , and a bit of quill , I 'd stop that door making such a noise . '' 
`` I do n't know where you could find any at this time , '' said Mary . 
The result of her carefulness was very soon announced to Mary by a protracted sound resembling the mewing of a hoarse cat , accompanied by sundry audible grunts from Miss Prissy , terminating in a grand finale of clatter , occasioned by her knocking down all the pieces of the quiltingframe that stood in the corner of the room , with a concussion that roused everybody in the house . 
She was answered by two streams of laughter , -- one from Mary , sitting up in bed , and the other from Miss Prissy , holding her sides , as she sat dissolved in merriment on the sanded floor . 
she said , dropping her curtsy on the door-step ; `` good-mornin ' , Miss Mary ! 
Now , ' says I , ` Cato , de ole Doctor 's gwine to be married , an ' dis yer 's his quiltin ' - cake , -- an ' Miss Mary , she 's gwine to be married , an ' dis yer 's herquiltin ' - cake . 
Now , I say , Candace , all Miss Scudder and Mary have to do is to give everything up to us , and we 'll put it through straight . '' 
`` Ye see , '' she said , `` I 's feelin ` sall de while for Miss Marvyn ; 'cause , ye see , she was expectin ' , ef eber Mary was married , -- well -- dat ` twould be to somebody else , ye know . '' 
But den , folks as is used to seein ' sech tings knows de look ob a sperit outo ' de body from de look ob a sperit inde body , jest as easy as you can tell Mary from de Doctor . '' 
she said to Mary , as she stood looking after her . 
`` No , '' answered Mary , innocently . 
`` Why was n't she ? '' 
`` 'Cause neber was a man could run fast enough to cotch her , '' said Candace ; and then her portly person shook with the impulse of her own wit . 
Mary , I must say , '' she added , in an aside , `` I think that Madame de Frongenac is the sweetest dressing and appearing creature I ever saw ; she do n't dress up nor put on airs , but she seems to see in a minute how things ought to go ; and if it 's only a bit of grass , or leaf , or wild vine , that she puts in her hair , why , it seems to come just right . 
I should like to make her a dress , for I know she would understand my fit ; do speak to her , Mary , in case she should want a dress fitted here , to let me try it . '' 
As Mary had been the chosen confidante of the progress of this affair , she was quietly amused at the demonstration . 
`` You 'd better take care , Cerinthy Ann , '' said her mother ; `` they say that ` those who sing before breakfast will cry before supper . ' 
Girls talk about getting married , '' she said , relapsing into a gentle didactic melancholy , `` without realizing its awful responsibilities . '' 
Mary sat as placid and disengaged as the new moon , and listened to the chatter of old and young with the easy quietness of a young heart that has early outlived life , and looks on everything in the world from some gentle , restful eminence far on towards a better home . 
She smiled at everybody 's word , had a quick eye for everybody 's wants , and was ready with thimble , scissors , or thread , whenever any one needed them ; but once , when there was a pause in the conversation , she and Mrs. Marvyn were both discovered to have stolen away . 
They were seated on the bed in Mary 's little room , with their arms around each other , communing in low and gentle tones . 
`` Mary , my dear child , '' said her friend , `` this event is very pleasant to me , because it places you permanently near me . 
`` You might be sure , '' said Mary , `` I never would have married , except that my mother 's happiness and the happiness of so good a friend seemed to depend on it . 
You will always be as a mother to me , '' she added , laying her head on her friend 's shoulder . 
If you feel really , truly happy , -- if you can enter on this life without any misgivings -- '' `` I can , '' said Mary , firmly . 
At this instant , very strangely , the string which confined a wreath of sea-shells around her glass , having been long undermined by moths , suddenly broke and fell down , scattering the shells upon the floor . 
said Mary , gathering the shells up tenderly ; `` wherever he is , I shall never cease to love him . 
Mrs. Marvyn clasped Mary closer to her , with tears in her eyes . 
`` I 'll tell you what , Mary ; it must have been the moths did that , '' said Miss Prissy , who had been standing , unobserved , at the door for a moment back ; `` moths will eat away strings just so . 
Mary and Mrs. Marvyn gave a hasty glance at themselves in the glass , to be assured of their good keeping , and went into the great kitchen , where a long table stood exhibiting all that plenitude of provision which the immortal description of Washington Irving has saved us the trouble of recapitulating in detail . 
When Mary made her appearance , there was a moment 's pause , till she was conducted to the side of the Doctor ; when , raising his hand , he invoked a grace upon the loaded board . 
A dayor two after , Madame de Frontignac and Mary went out to gather shells and seaweed on the beach . 
Madame de Frontignac and Mary had brought a little basket with them , which they were filling with shells and sea-mosses . 
She ran , and shouted , and exclaimed , and wondered at each new marvel thrown out upon the shore , with the abandonof a little child . 
Mary could not but wonder whether this indeed were she whose strong words had pierced and wrung her sympathies the other night , and whether a deep life-wound could lie bleeding under those brilliant eyes and that infantine exuberance of gayety ; yet , surely , all that which seemed so strong , so true , so real could not be gone so soon , -- and it could not be so soon consoled . 
Mary wondered at her , as the Anglo-Saxon constitution , with its strong , firm intensity , its singleness of nature , wonders at the mobile , many-sided existence of warmer races , whose versatility of emotion on the surface is not incompatible with the most intense persistency lower down . 
Mary 's was one of those indulgent and tolerant natures which seem to form the most favorable base for the play of other minds , rather than to be itself salient , -- and something about her tender calmness always seemed to provoke the spirit of frolic in her friend . 
She would laugh at her , kiss her , gambol round her , dress her hair with fantastic coiffures , and call her all sorts of fanciful and poetic names in French or English , -- while Mary surveyed her with a pleased and innocent surprise , as a revelation of character altogether new and different from anything to which she had been hitherto accustomed . 
She was to her a living pantomime , and brought into her unembellished life the charms of opera and theatre and romance . 
Mary 's eyes fixed themselves , as they were apt to do , in a mournful reverie , on the infinite expanse of waters , which was now broken and chopped into a thousand incoming waves by the fresh afternoon breeze . 
Madame de Frontignac noticed the expression , and began to play with her as if she had been a child . 
She pulled the comb from her hair , and let down its long silky waves upon her shoulders . 
`` Now , '' said she , `` let us make a Miranda of thee . 
Where is the girl so angelic as not to feel a slight curiosity to know how she shall look in a new and strange costume ? 
Mary bent over the rock , where a little pool of water lay in a brown hollow above the fluctuations of the tide , dark and still , like a mirror , -- and saw a fair face , with a white shell above the forehead and drooping wreaths of green seaweed in the silken hair ; and a faint blush and smile rose on the cheek , giving the last finish to the picture . 
She turned quickly , and her eye was caught by something that Mary did not see ; she only saw the smile fade suddenly from Madame de Frontignac 's cheek , and her lips grow deadly white , while her heart beat so that Mary could discern its flutterings under her black silk bodice . 
Mary started with a guilty blush , like a child detected in an unseemly frolic , and put her hand to her head to take off the unwonted adornments . 
`` Let me protest , in the name of the Graces , '' said Burr , who by that time stood with easy calmness at her side ; and as he spoke , he stayed her hand with that gentle air of authority which made it the natural impulse of most people to obey him . 
Mary was taken by surprise , and discomposed as every one is who finds himself masquerading in attire foreign to his usual habits and character ; and therefore , when she would persist in taking it to pieces , Burr found sufficient to alleviate the embarrassment of Madame de Frontignac 's utter silence in a playful run of protestations and compliments . 
`` I think , Mary , '' said Madame de Frontignac , `` that we had better be returning to the house . '' 
Mary rose to go ; Madame de Frontignac offered her arm . 
Mary looked a few paces ahead , and saw , a little before them , a fresh afternoon breeze driving the rising tide high on to the side of the rocks , at whose foot their course had lain . 
`` I think , '' said Mary , `` that we should try the rocks . '' 
`` Very well , '' said Burr ; and placing his gloved hand on a fragment of rock somewhat above their heads , he swung himself up to it with an easy agility ; from this he stretched himself down as far as possible towards them , and , extending his hand , directed Mary , who stood foremost , to set her foot on a slight projection , and give him both her hands ; she did so , and he seemed to draw her up as easily as if she had been a feather . 
He placed her by him on a shelf of rock , and turned again to Madame de Frontignac ; she folded her arms and turned resolutely away towards the sea . 
Just at that moment a coming wave broke at her feet . 
she responded , without turning her head . 
exclaimed Mary , kneeling and stretching her arms over the rock ; but another voice called Virginie , in a tone which went to her heart . 
She turned and saw those dark eyes full of tears . 
he said , with that voice which she never could resist . 
She put her cold , trembling hands into his , and he drew her up and placed her safely beside Mary . 
Madame de Frontignac made no reply ; but curtsied with a stately grace , turned and went into her little room , whither Mary , after a few minutes , followed her . 
She found her thrown upon the bed , her face buried in the pillow , her breast heaving as if she were sobbing ; but when , at Mary 's entrance , she raised her head , her eyes were bright and dry . 
`` It is just as I told you , Mary , -- that man holds me . 
`` But , '' said Mary , `` love is founded on respect and esteem ; and when that is gone '' -- `` Why , then , '' said Madame , `` we are very sorry , -- but we love yet . 
The word struck home to Mary 's consciousness , -- but she sat down and took her friend in her arms with an air self-controlled , serious , rational . 
`` I think not , '' said Mary , resolutely ; `` and furthermore , I shall say to him , that , while Madame de Frontignac is at the cottage , it will not be agreeable for us to receive calls from him . '' 
`` Mary , ma chère , you astonish me ! '' 
`` My dear friend , '' said Mary , `` it is the only way . 
And she rose up with flashing eye and glowing cheek , looking as her father looked when he protested against the slave-trade . 
`` Thou art my Saint Catharine , '' said Virginie , rising up , excited by Mary 's enthusiam , `` and hast the sword as well as the palm ; but , dear saint , do n't think so very , very badly of him ; -- he has a noble nature ; he has the angel in him . '' 
`` The greater his sin , '' said Mary ; `` he sins against light and love . '' 
Oh , Mary , if you had only seen how he looked at me when he put out his hands on the rocks ! 
said Mary ; `` I do not think he is quite a fiend ; no one could look at those cheeks , dear Virginie , and not feel sad , that saw you a few months ago . '' 
she said , rising and looking at herself in the mirror . 
-- and Virginie stroked her own chestnut head , as if she had been pitying another , and began humming a little Norman air with a refrain that sounded like the murmur of a brook over the stones . 
The more Mary was touched by these little poetic ways , which ran just on an even line between the gay and the pathetic , the more indignant she grew with the man that had brought all this sorrow . 
She felt a saintly vindictiveness , and a determination to place herself as an adamantine shield between him and her friend . 
Besides , Mary had at heart the true Puritan seed of heroism , -- never absent from the souls of true New England women . 
Her essentially Hebrew education , trained in daily converse with the words of prophets and seers , and with the modes of thought of a people essentially grave and heroic , predisposed her to a kind of exaltation , which , in times of great trial , might rise to the heights of the religious-sublime , in which the impulse of self-devotion took a form essentially commanding . 
The very intensity of the repression under which her faculties had developed seemed , as it were , to produce a surplus of hidden strength , which came out in exigencies . 
Her reading , though restricted to a few volumes , had been of the kind that vitalized and stimulated a poetic nature , and laid up in its chambers vigorous words and trenchant phrases , for the use of an excited feeling , -- so that eloquence came to her as a native gift . 
She realized , in short , in her higher hours , the last touch with which Milton finishes his portrait of an ideal woman : -- The next morning , Colonel Burr called at the cottage . 
Mary was spinning in the garret , and Madame de Frontignac was reeling yarn , when Mrs. Scudder brought this announcement . 
`` Mother , '' said Mary , `` I wish to see Mr. Burr alone . 
When she was gone down , Mary stood a moment reflecting ; Madame de Frontignac looked eager and agitated . 
`` Remember and notice all he says , and just how he looks , Mary , so as to tell me ; and be sure and say that I thank him for his kindness yesterday . 
`` Certainly , '' said Mary ; `` but no man could have done less . '' 
but , Mary , not every man could have done it ashe did . 
Now do n't be too hard on him , Mary ; -- I have said dreadful things to him ; I am afraid I have been too severe . 
said Mary , kissing the pale cheek , and feeling the cold little hands that trembled in hers . 
and Madame de Frontignac pushed her playfully forward . 
Mary entered the room where Burr was seated , and wished him good-morning , in a serious and placid manner , in which there was not the slightest trace of embarrassment or discomposure . 
Burr gave a start of well-bred surprise , and Mary added , -- `` Madame de Frontignac has made me familiar with the history of your acquaintance with her ; and you will therefore understand what I mean , Mr. Burr , when I say , that , during the time of her stay with us , we should prefer not to receive calls from you . '' 
`` I intend it shall have , Sir , '' said Mary , tranquilly ; `` half the misery in the world comes of want of courage to speak and to hear the truth plainly and in a spirit of love . '' 
`` Mr. Burr , '' said Mary , walking up to him , and looking him full in the eyes , with an energy that for the moment bore down his practised air of easy superiority , `` I wish to speak to you for a moment , as one immortal soul should to another , without any of those false glosses and deceits which men call ceremony and good manners . 
-- Mr. Burr , you know that you have taken the very life out of her . 
You have stolen all the love she had to give , -- all that she had to make a happy home ; and you can never give her anything in return , without endangering her purity and her soul , -- and you knew you could not . 
and Mary threw herself passionately down into a chair , and broke into an agony of uncontrolled sobbing . 
In a few moments Mary rose with renewed calmness and dignity , and , approaching him , said , -- `` Before I wish you good-morning , Mr. Burr , I must ask pardon for the liberty I have taken in speaking so very plainly . '' 
`` The only kindness you can now do her , '' said Mary , `` is to leave her . 
said Mary , the color rising in her cheeks . 
Burr looked at her with that smile that always drew out the confidence of every heart . 
`` Mr. Burr , '' she said , `` you will pardon me , but I can not help saying this : You have , I am told , wholly renounced the Christian faith of your fathers , and build your whole life on quite another foundation . 
Mary looked at him wistfully ; he smiled and bowed , -- all himself again ; and stopping at the door , he said , with a proud humility , -- `` Do me the favor to present my devoted regard to your friend ; believe me , that hereafter you shall have less reason to complain of me . '' 
It must not be wondered at , therefore , if our simple-hearted , loving Mary strangely found all her indignation against him gone , and herself little disposed to criticize the impassioned tenderness with which Madame de Frontignac still regarded him . 
It is but fair , then , to take their lives as the practical workings of their respective ethical creeds Weowe our readers a digression at this point , while we return for a few moments to say a little more of the fortunes of Madame de Frontignac , whom we left waiting with impatience for the termination of the conversation between Mary and Burr . 
`` Enfin , chère Sybille , '' said Madame de Frontignac , when Mary came out of the room , with her cheeks glowing and her eye flashing with a still unsubdued light , `` te voilà encore!What did he say , mimi ? 
`` Yes , '' said Mary , `` he asked for you . '' 
`` A good deal so , I thought , '' said Mary . 
`` Oh , '' said Mary , `` I am the worst person in the world ; in fact , I can not remember anything that I have said ; but I told him that he must leave you , and never see you any more . '' 
Madame de Frontignac sat down on the side of the bed with such a look of utter despair as went to Mary 's heart . 
`` You have your husband , '' said Mary . 
`` Not every kind of love , '' said Mary , `` but some kinds . 
`` Oh , Mary ! '' 
`` More than that , '' said Mary ; `` I believe , that , if you go on patiently in the way of duty , and pray daily to God , He will at last take out of your heart this painful love , and give you a true and healthy one . 
I like to feel thee in my arms , '' she said , putting her arms around Mary , and resting her head upon her shoulder . 
Thus Mary soothed her friend ; but every few days this soothing had to be done over , as long as Burr remained in Newport . 
When he was finally gone , she grew more calm . 
The simple , homely ways of the cottage , the healthful routine of daily domestic toils , into which she delighted to enter , brought refreshment to her spirit . 
That fine tact and exquisite social sympathy , which distinguish the French above other nations , caused her at once to enter into the spirit of the life in which she moved ; so that she no longer shocked any one 's religious feelings by acts forbidden by the Puritan idea of Sunday , or failed in any of the exterior proprieties of religious life . 
She also read and studied with avidity the English Bible , which came to her with the novelty of a wholly new book in a new language ; nor was she without a certain artistic appreciation of the austere precision and gravity of the religious life by which she was surrounded . 
`` It is sublime , but a little glaciale , like the Alps , '' she sometimes said to Mary and Mrs. Marvyn , when speaking of it ; `` but then , '' she added , playfully , `` there are the flowers , -- les roses des Alpes , -- and the air is very strengthening , and it is near to heaven , -- faut avouer . '' 
We have shown how she appeared to the eye of New England life ; it may not be uninteresting to give a letter to one of her friends , which showed how the same appeared to her . 
It was not a friend with whom she felt on such terms , that her intimacy with Burr would appear at all in the correspondence . 
Mary stood by the side of the table , her pretty head bent reflectively downward , her cheek just resting upon the tip of one of her fingers , as she stood looking thoughtfully throughthe brocades at something deeper that seemed to lie under them ; and when the Doctor was required to give judgment on the articles , it was observed by the matrons that his large blue eyes were resting upon Mary , with an expression that almost glorified his face ; and it was not until his elbow was repeatedly shaken by Miss Prissy , that he gave a sudden start , and fixed his attention , as was requested , upon the silks . 
`` This is the one , '' he said , with an air of decision ; and then he looked at Mary , and smiled , and a murmur of universal approbation broke out . 
`` Il a de la délicatesse , '' said Madame de Frontignac , who had been watching this scene with bright , amused eyes , -- while a chorus of loud acclamations , in which Miss Prissy 's voice took the lead , conveyed to the innocent-minded Doctor the idea , that in some mysterious way he had distinguished himself in the eyes of his feminine friends ; whereat he retired to his study slightly marvelling , but on the whole well pleased , as men generally are when they do better than they expect ; and Miss Prissy , turning out all profaner persons from the apartment , held a solemn consultation , to which only Mary , Mrs. Scudder , and Madame de Frontignac were admitted . 
For it is to be observed that the latter had risen daily and hourly in Miss Prissy 's esteem , since her entrance into the cottage ; and she declared , that , if she only would give her a few hints , she did n't believe but that she could make that dress look just like a Paris one ; and rather intimated that in such a case she might almost be ready to resign all mortal ambitions . 
The afternoon of this day , just at that cool hour when the clock ticks so quietly in a New England kitchen , and everything is so clean and put away that there seems to be nothing to do in the house , Mary sat quietly down in her room to hem a ruffle . 
And Mary , quite well pleased with the placid and orderly stillness which reigned through the house , sat pleasantly murmuring a little tune to her sewing , when suddenly the trip of a very brisk foot was heard in the kitchen , and Miss Cerinthy Ann Twitchel made her appearance at the door , her healthy glowing cheek wearing a still brighter color from the exercise of a three-mile walk in a July day . 
`` Why , Cerinthy , '' said Mary , `` how glad I am to see you ! '' 
She had always , however , cherished an unbounded veneration for Mary , and had made her the confidante of most of her important secrets . 
It soon became very evident that she had come with one on her mind now . 
she said , after sitting awhile , twirling her bonnet-strings with the air of one who has something to say and does n't know exactly how to begin upon it . 
Mary cheerfully gathered up her thread , scissors , and ruffling , and the two stepped over the window-sill , and soon found themselves seated cozily under the boughs of a large apple-tree , whose descending branches , meeting the tops of the high grass all around , formed a seclusion as perfect as heart could desire . 
Cerinthy began by passionately demolishing several heads of clover , remarking , as she did so , that she `` did n't see , for her part , how Mary could keep so calm when things were coming so near . '' 
And as Mary answered to this only with a quiet smile , she broke out again : -- `` I do n't see , for my part , how a young girl couldmarry a minister , anyhow ; but then I think you are just cut out for it . 
`` I do n't know , '' said Mary , innocently . 
`` Well , I suppose everybody would hold up their hands ; and yet , if I dosay it myself , '' -- she added , coloring , -- `` there are not many girls who could make a better minister 's wife than I could , if I had a mind to try . '' 
`` That I am sure of , '' said Mary , warmly . 
`` Now , Mary , there is that creature.Well , you know , he wo n't take ` No ' for an answer . 
`` Suppose , then , you try ` Yes , ' '' said Mary , rather archly . 
`` Why , yes , '' said Mary , looking at Cerinthy , deliberately ; `` on the whole , I think you do . '' 
I think he is a thousand times too good for me . 
Why , you have no idea , Mary , how I haveplagued him . 
`` Well , '' said Mary , mildly , `` do you think you really love him ? '' 
I tell you , Mary , he talks beautifully , too , sometimes . '' 
After a few moments , she resumed : -- `` The fact is , Mary , that man needssomebody to take care of him ; for he never thinks of himself . 
said Mary . 
Mary looked up , and remarked the shining black hair , the long dark lashes lying down over the glowing cheek , where two arch dimples were nestling , and said , quietly , -- `` Probably he is a man of taste , Cerinthy ; I advise you to leave the matter entirely to his judgment . '' 
`` You do n't , really , Mary ! '' 
`` I think not , materially , '' said Mary . 
said Mary . 
As she turned to go , she looked really pretty . 
Her long lashes were wet with a twinkling moisture , like meadow-grass after a shower ; and there was a softened , childlike expression stealing over the careless gayety of her face . 
Mary put her arms round her with a gentle caressing movement , which the other returned with a hearty embrace . 
`` Look here now , Mary , '' said Cerinthy ; `` your folks are all gone . 
`` Yes , I will , '' said Mary ; `` wait a minute , till I get my bonnet . '' 
Mary was , besides , one of the most seductive little confidantes in the world . 
She was so pure from selfishness , so heartily and innocently interested in what another was telling her , that people in talking with her found the subject constantly increasing in interest , -- although , if they really had been called upon afterwards to state the exact portion in words which she added to the conversation , they would have been surprised to find it so small . 
In fact , before Cerinthy Ann had quite finished her confessions , they were more than a mile from the cottage , and Mary began to think of returning , saying that her mother would wonder where she was , when she came home . 
Mary , as she walked homeward with this dreamy light around her , moved with a slower step than when borne along by the vigorous arm and determined motion of her young friend . 
It is said that a musical sound uttered with decision by one instrument always makes the corresponding chord of another vibrate ; and Mary felt , as she left her positive but warm-hearted friend , a plaintive vibration of something in her own self , of which she was conscious her calm friendship for her future husband had no part She fell into one of those reveries which she thought she had forever forbidden to herself , and there rose before her mind the picture of a marriage-ceremony , -- but the eyes of the bridegroom were dark , and his curls were clustering in raven ringlets , and her hand throbbed in his as it had never throbbed in any other . 
It was just as she was coming out of a little grove of cedars , where the high land overlooks the sea , and the dream which came to her overcame her with a vague and yearning sense of pain . 
Suddenly she heard footsteps behind her , and some one said , `` Mary ! '' 
It was spoken in a choked voice , as one speaks in the crises of a great emotion ; and she turned and saw those very eyes , that very hair , yes , and the cold little hand throbbed with that very throb in that strong , living , manly hand ; and , whether in the body or out of the body God knoweth , she felt herself borne in those arms , and words that spoke themselves in her inner heart , words profaned by being repeated , were on her ear . 
`` You will allow me , Mary , the right of a future husband , to watch over your life and health . '' 
Then came back the visible world , -- recollection , consciousness , and the great battle of duty , -- and Mary drew away a little , and said , -- `` Oh , James , you are too late ! 
He drew back from her . 
`` Mary , are you married ? '' 
`` Before God , I am , '' she said . 
`` But , Mary , you do not love him . 
said James , holding her off from him , and looking at her with an agonized eagerness . 
`` But , '' said James , eagerly , `` you know , Mary , you neverwould have given it , if you had known that I was living . '' 
`` But , Mary , did you not get my letter ? '' 
said Mary , who was conscious this moment only of a dizzy instinct to turn the conversation from where she felt too weak to bear it . 
said Mary . 
said Mary . 
James helped her into the house , and they parted . 
Mary went into her little room , and threw herself upon the bed , weak , weary , yet happy , -- for deep and high above all other feelings was the great relief that hewas living still . 
After a little while she heard the rattling of the wagon , and then the quick patter of Miss Prissy 's feet , and her mother 's considerate tones , and the Doctor 's grave voice , -- and quite unexpectedly to herself , she was shocked to find herself turning with an inward shudder from the idea of meeting him . 
she thought , -- `` how ungrateful ! '' 
-- and she prayed that God would give her strength to check the first rising of such feelings . 
Then there was her mother , so ignorant and innocent , busy putting away baskets of things that she had bought in provision for the wedding-ceremony . 
Mary almost felt as if she had a guilty secret . 
But when she looked back upon the last two hours , she felt no wish to take them back again . 
she thought God must have given them to her as a keepsake to remind her of His love , and to strengthen her in the way of duty . 
Some will , perhaps , think it an unnatural thing that Mary should have regarded her pledge to the Doctor as of so absolute and binding force ; but they must remember the rigidity of her education . 
Self-denial and self-sacrifice had been the daily bread of her life . 
Every prayer , hymn , and sermon , from her childhood , had warned her to distrust her inclinations , and regard her feelings as traitors . 
In particular had she been brought up to regard the sacredness of a promise with a superstitious tenacity ; and in this case the promise involved so deeply the happiness of a friend whom she had loved and revered all her life , that she never thought of any way of escape from it . 
She had been taught that there was no feeling so strong but that it might be immediately repressed at the call of duty ; and if the thought arose to her of this great love to another , she immediately answered it by saying , `` How would it have been if I had been married ? 
Mrs. Scudder came into her room with a candle in her hand , and Mary , accustomed to read the expression of her mother 's face , saw at a glance a visible discomposure there . 
She held the light so that it shone upon Mary 's face . 
she said . 
said Mary , stretching out her hands towards her , `` I know it . 
said her mother , with astonishment . 
Mary looked at her mother with incredulous blue eyes . 
The idea that feelings which made her hold her breath when she thought of them could be so summarily disposed of ! 
She turned her face wearily to the wall , with a deep sigh , and said , -- `` After all , mother , it is mercy enough and comfort enough to think that he is living . 
`` That is true also , mother , '' said Mary . 
Mary assented . 
said Mary , rising up with animation ; `` he mentioned having sent me one . '' 
`` Oh , mother , I think I shall be more composed when I know all that is in it , '' said Mary , still stretching out her hand . 
`` Well , my daughter , you are the best judge , '' said Mrs. Scudder ; and she set down the candle on the table , and left Mary alone . 
I tell you , Mary , that one man alone on the great ocean of life feels himself a very weak thing . 
`` I began now to live a new life , -- a life in which I felt myself coming into sympathy with you ; for , Mary , when I began to read the Gospels , I took knowledge of you , that you had been with Jesus . 
`` And now , Mary , I am coming home again , quite another man from what I went out , -- with a whole new world of thought and feeling in my heart , and a new purpose , by which , please God , I mean to shape my life . 
Mary rose , after reading this letter , rapt into a divine state of exaltation , -- the pure joy , in contemplating an infinite good to another , in which the question of self was utterly forgotten . 
He was , then , what she had always hoped and prayed he would be , and she pressed the thought triumphantly to her heart . 
Her prayers that night were aspirations and praises , and she felt how possible it might be so to appropriate the good and the joy and the nobleness of others as to have in them an eternal and satisfying treasure . 
And with this came the dearer thought , that she , in her weakness and solitude , had been permitted to put her hand to the beginning of a work so noble . 
And so , having prayed , she lay down to that sleep which God giveth to his beloved . 
We will not say that our dear little Mary rose in this condition next morning , -- for , although she had the headache , she had one of those natures in which , somehow or other , the combative element seems to be left out , so that no one ever knew her to speak a fretful word . 
But still , as we have observed , she had the headache and the depression , -- and there came the slow , creeping sense of waking up , through all her heart and soul , of a thousand , thousand things that could be said only to one person , and that person one that it would be temptation and danger to say them to . 
She came out of her room to her morning work with a face resolved and calm , but expressive of languor , with slight signs of some inward struggle . 
Madame de Frontignac , who had already heard the intelligence , threw two or three of her bright glances upon her at breakfast , and at once divined how the matter stood . 
She was of a nature so delicately sensitive to the most refined shades of honor , that she apprehended at once that there must be a conflict , -- though , judging by her own impulsive nature , she made no doubt that all would at once go down before the mighty force of reawakened love . 
After breakfast she would insist upon following Mary about through all her avocations . 
She possessed herself of a towel , and would wipe the teacups and saucers , while Mary washed . 
She clinked the glasses , and rattled the cups and spoons , and stepped about as briskly as if she had two or three breezes to carry her train , and chattered half English and half French , for the sake of bringing into Mary 's cheek the shy , slow dimples that she liked to watch . 
But still Mrs. Scudder was around , with an air as provident and forbidding as that of a sitting hen who watches her nest ; nor was it till after all things had been cleared away in the house , and Mary had gone up into her little attic to spin , that the longsought opportunity came of diving to the bottom of this mystery . 
she said , embracing her . 
`` Yes , I am very happy , '' said Mary , with calm gravity . 
said Madame de Frontignac , mimicking her manner . 
`` I only saw him a little while , '' said Mary , `` and I felt a great deal more than I saw . 
`` But I think , '' said Madame de Frontignac , seating Mary , as was her wont , and sitting down at her feet , -- `` I think you are a little tristeabout this . 
`` You do not think , '' said Mary , speaking seriously , `` that I shall break my promise given before God to this good man ? '' 
`` But I promisedhim , '' said Mary . 
Madame de Frontignac threw up her hands with an expression of vexation . 
`` I do not believe , '' said Mary , `` in any earthly power that can dispense us from solemn obligations which we have assumed before God , and on which we have suffered others to build the most precious hopes . 
said Madame de Frontignac , who , with the airy frailty of her race never lost her appreciation of the fine points of anything that went on under her eyes . 
But , nevertheless , she was inwardly resolved , that , picturesque as this `` sublime of duty '' was , it must not be allowed to pass beyond the limits of a fine art , and so she recommenced . 
`` Mais c'est absurde.This beautiful young man , with his black eyes , and his curls , -- a real hero , -- a Theseus , Mary , -- just come home from killing a Minotaur , -- and loves you with his whole heart , -- and this dreadful promise ! 
`` Perhaps he would , '' said Mary , `` if I should ask him ; but that would be equivalent to a breach of it . 
`` You are an angel of delicacy , my child ; c'est admirable!but , after all , Mary , this is not well . 
`` But I love the Doctor , '' said Mary , evasively . 
`` I should hope that God would help me to feel right , '' said Mary . 
Poor Mary 's conscience was fairly posed . 
This appeal struck upon her sense of right as having its grounds . 
She felt inexpressibly confused and distressed . 
she said . 
she said between her teeth , and then looked up , startled and guilty , to see if Mary had heard her . 
`` I can not , '' said Mary , -- `` I can not go against my conscience , and my mother , and my best friend . '' 
A vague suspicion of something French had haunted her during her dairy-work , and she resolved to come and put a stop to the interview , by telling Mary that Miss Prissy wanted her to come and be measured for the skirt of her dress . 
She was inwardly resolved that there should be no more such for the present , and kept Mary employed about various matters relating to the dresses , so scrupulously that there was no opportunity for anything more of the sort that day . 
In the evening James Marvyn came down , and was welcomed with the greatest demonstrations of joy by all but Mary , who sat distant and embarrassed , after the first salutations had passed . 
Miss Prissy , indeed , had had her heart somewhat touched , as good little women 's hearts are apt to be by a true love-story , and had hinted something of her feelings to Mrs. Scudder , in a manner which brought such a severe rejoinder as quite humbled and abashed her , so that she coweringly took refuge under her former declaration , that , `` to be sure , there could n't be any man in the world better worthyof Mary than the Doctor , '' while still at her heart she was possessed with that troublesome preference for unworthy people which stands in the way of so many excellent things . 
But she went on vigorously sewing on the wedding-dress , and pursing up her small mouth into the most perfect and guarded expression of non committal ; though she said afterwards , `` it went to her heart to see how that poor young man did look , sitting there just as noble and as handsome as a picture . 
She did n't see , for herpart , how anybody 's heart couldstand it ; though , to be sure , as Miss Scudder said , the poor Doctor ought to be thought about , dear blessed man ! 
Mrs. Scudder was immovable in her motherly kindness , sitting there , smiling and chatting with him , but never stirring from her place by Mary . 
Madame de Frontignac was out of all patience , and determined , in her small way , to do something to discompose the fixed state of things . 
So , retreating to her room , she contrived , in very desperation , to upset and break a water-pitcher , shrieking violently in French and English at the deluge which came upon the sanded floor and the little piece of carpet by the bedside . 
then and there was hurrying to and fro , '' while Mary sat quiet as a statue , bending over her sewing , and James , knowing that it must be now or never , was , like a flash , in the empty chair by her side , with his black moustache very near to the bent brown head . 
`` Mary , '' he said , `` you mustlet me see you once more . 
I do n't put this to your inclination , Mary , -- I know it would be of no use , -- I put it to your conscience . '' 
said Mary . 
`` Now , '' he said to Mary , `` let me propose one thing . 
I am quite sure of that , Mary . 
`` I think it is , '' said Mary , looking gravely and deeply thoughtful . 
If you tell him , or if I tell him , or your mother , -- who is the proper person , -- and he chooses to hold you to your promise , then , Mary , I have no more to say . 
Mary hastily said , -- `` Wait , James , -- let me think , -- to-morrow is the Sabbath-day . 
And when Miss Prissy returned into the best room , James was sitting at one window and Mary at another , -- he making remarks , in a style of most admirable commonplace , on a copy of Milton 's `` Paradise Lost , '' which he had picked up in the confusion of the moment , and which , at the time Mrs. Katy Scudder entered , he was declaring to be a most excellent book , -- a really , truly , valuable work . 
Mrs. Scudder looked keenly from one to the other , and saw that Mary 's cheek was glowing like the deepest heart of a pink shell , while , in all other respects , she was as cold and calm . 
On the whole , she felt satisfied that no mischief had been done . 
As to James , she had felt truly sympathetic with his mother , and with Mary , in the dreadful hour when they supposed him lost ; and had it not been for the great perplexity occasioned by his return , she would have received him , as a relative , with open arms . 
But now she felt it her duty to be on the defensive , -- an attitude not the most favorable for cherishing pleasing associations in regard to another . 
She had read the letter giving an account of his spiritual experience with very sincere pleasure , as a good woman should , but not without an internal perception how very much it endangered her favorite plans . 
When Mary , however , had calmly reiterated her determination , she felt sure of her ; for had she ever known her to say a thing she did not do ? 
The uneasiness she felt at present was not the doubt of her daughter 's steadiness , but the fear that she might have been unsuitably harassed or annoyed . 
It was the Sabbath-day , -- the last Sabbath in Mary 's maiden life , if her promises and plans were fulfilled . 
Mary dressed herself in white , -- her hands trembling with unusual agitation , her sensitive nature divided between two opposing consciences and two opposing affections . 
Her devoted filial love toward the Doctor made her feel the keenest sensitiveness at the thought of giving him pain . 
At the same time , the questions which James had proposed to her had raised serious doubts in her mind whether it was altogether right to suffer him blindly to enter into this union . 
So , after she was all prepared , she bolted the door of her chamber , and , opening her Bible , read , `` If any of you lack wisdom , let him ask of God , that giveth to all men liberally , and upbraideth not , and it shall be given him '' ; and then , kneeling down by the bedside , she asked that God would give her some immediate light in her present perplexity . 
So praying , her mind grew calm and steady , and she rose up at the sound of the bell , which marked that it was time to set forward for church . 
Everybody noticed , as she came into church that morning , how beautiful Mary Scudder looked . 
It was no longer the beauty of the carved statue , the pale alabaster shrine , the sainted virgin , but a warm , bright , living light , that spoke of some summer breath breathing within her soul . 
When she took her place in the singers ' seat , she knew , without turning her head , that hewas in his old place , not far from her side ; and those whose eyes followed her to the gallery marvelled at her face there , -- `` her pure and eloquent blood Spoke in her cheeks , and so distinctly wrought That you might almost say her body thought ; '' for a thousand delicate nerves were becoming vital once more , -- the holy mystery of womanhood had wrought within her . 
And Mary , while her voice rose over the waves of the treble , and trembled with a pathetic richness , felt , to her inmost heart , the deep accord of that other voice which rose to meet hers , so wildly melancholy , as if the soul in that manly breast had come to meet her soul in the disembodied , shadowy verity of eternity . 
And as Mary sang , she felt sublimely upborne with the idea that life is but a moment and love is immortal , and seemed , in a shadowy trance , to feel herself and him past this mortal fane , far over on the shores of that other life , ascending with Christ , all-glorified , all tears wiped away , and with full permission to love and to be loved forever . 
And as she sang , the Doctor looked upward , and marvelled at the light in her eyes and the rich bloom on her cheek ; for where she stood , a sunbeam , streaming aslant through the dusty panes of the window , touched her head with a kind of glory , and the thought he then received outbreathed itself in the yet more fervent adoration of his prayer . 
But be that as it may , certain it is , that Candace , who on this morning in church sat where she could see Mary and James in the singers ' seat , had certain thoughts planted in her mind which bore fruit afterwards in a solemn and select consultation held with Miss Prissy at the end of the horse-shed by the meeting-house , during the intermission between the morning and afternoon services . 
`` If you please , it 's about you and Mary ! '' 
`` I do n't know how you would view such a matter , '' said Miss Prissy ; `` but the fact is , that James Marvyn and Mary always did love each other , ever since they were children . '' 
I mean that James Marvyn wanted to marry Mary , and that she was -- well -- she was n't engaged to him , but '' -- `` Madam ! '' 
Doctor , I hope you 'll excuse me ; but there the fact is , -- I 've said it out , -- the fact is , they wa 'n' t engaged ; but that Mary loved him ever since he was a boy , as she never will and never can love any man again in this world , is what I am just as sure of as that I 'm standing here ; and I 've felt you ought to know it ; 'cause I 'm quite sure , that , if he 'd been alive , she 'd never given the promise she has , -- the promise that she means to keep , if her heart breaks , and his too . 
During all this latter speech the Doctor was standing with his back to Miss Prissy , and his face to the window , just as he did some time before , when Mrs. Scudder came to tell him of Mary 's consent . 
He made a gesture backward , without speaking , that she should leave the apartment ; and Miss Prissy left , with a guilty kind of feeling , as if she had been striking a knife into her pastor , and , rushing distractedly across the entry into Mary 's little bedroom , she bolted the door , threw herself on the bed , and began to cry . 
she said to herself . 
`` He 's a very strong , hearty man , '' she soliloquized , `` so I hope it wo n't put him in a consumption ; -- men do go into a consumption about such things sometimes . 
Just at this moment Miss Prissy heard a gentle tap at the door , and started , as if it had been a ghost , -- not being able to rid herself of the impression , that , somehow , she had committed a great crime , for which retribution was knocking at the door . 
It was Mary , who said , in her sweetest and most natural tones , `` Miss Prissy , the Doctor would like to see you . '' 
Mary was much astonished at the frightened , discomposed manner with which Miss Prissy received this announcement , and said , -- `` I 'm afraid I 've waked you up out of sleep . 
Miss Prissy did n't , either ; but she reflected afterwards that she might as well get through with it at once ; and therefore , smoothing her tumbled cap-border , she went to the Doctor 's study . 
This time he was quite composed , and received her with a mournful gravity , and requested her to be seated . 
He rose , and opened the door for her to pass out , -- and Miss Prissy , overawed by the stately gravity of his manner , went out in silence . 
He slept little that night ; but when he came to breakfast , all noticed an unusual gentleness and benignity of manner , and Mary , she knew not why , saw tears rising in his eyes when he looked at her . 
Meanwhile James Marvyn entered the cottage , prompt to remind Mary of her promise that she would talk with him again this morning . 
`` The Doctor wishes to see you and Mary a moment , together . '' 
`` You all know , '' he said , turning toward Mary , who sat very near him , `` the near and dear relation in which I have been expected to stand towards this friend . 
`` I have just discovered , '' he added , looking kindly upon Mary , `` that there is a great cross and burden which must come , either on this dear child or on myself , through no fault of either of us , but through God 's good providence ; and therefore let me bear it . 
`` Mary , my dear child , '' he said , `` I will be to thee as a father , but I will not force thy heart . '' 
At this moment , Mary , by a sudden , impulsive movement , threw her arms around his neck and kissed him , and lay sobbing on his shoulder . 
she said , -- `` I will marry you , as I said ! '' 
And he lifted her from his shoulder , and placed her gently in the arms of the young man , who , overawed and overcome , pressed her silently to his heart . 
You see , he came home a week before the wedding was to be , and Mary , she was so conscientious she thought ` twa 'n' t right to break off with the Doctor , and so she was for going right on with it ; and Mrs. Scudder , she was for going on more yet ; and the poor young man , he could n't get a word in edgeways , and there would n't anybody tell the Doctor a word about it , and there 't was drifting along , and both on 'em feeling dreadful , and so I thought to myself , ` I 'll just take my life in my hand , like Queen Esther , and go in and tell the Doctor all about it . ' 
`` Well , Tuesday night , I and Madame de Frontignac , we dressed Mary ourselves , and , I tell you , the dress fitted as if it was grown on her ; and Madame de Frontignac , she dressed her hair ; and she had on a wreath of lilies of the valley , and a gauze veil that came a ` most down to her feet , and came all around her like a cloud , and you could see her white shining dress through it every time she moved , and she looked just as white as a snow-berry ; but there were two little pink spots that kept coming and going in her cheeks , that kind of lightened up when she smiled , and then faded down again . 
And pretty soon Mrs. Marvyn came in the room , and when she saw Mary , her brown eyes kind of danced , and she lifted up both hands , to see how beautiful she looked . 
Mary grew rather white , as if she was going to faint ; but Jim Marvyn stood up just as firm , and looked as proud and handsome as a prince , and he kind of looked down at her , -- 'cause , you know , he is a great deal taller , -- kind of wondering , as if he wanted to know if it was really so . 
Then Cerinthy Ann , she pulled off Mary 's glove pretty quick ; but that poor beau of hers , he made such work of James 's that he had to pull it off himself , after all , and Cerinthy Ann , she liked to have laughed out loud . 
And so when the Doctor told them to join hands , Jim took hold of Mary 's hand as if he did n't mean to let go very soon , and so they were married . 
`` I was the first one that kissed the bride after Mrs. Scudder , -- I got that promise out of Mary when I was making the dress . 
`` That French lady looked lovely , dressed in pale pink silk , with long pink wreaths of flowers in her hair ; and she came up and kissed Mary , and said something to her in French . 
`` And after a while old Candace came up , and Mary kissed her ; and then Candace put her arms round Jim 's neck , and gave him a real hearty smack , so that everybody laughed . 
And then the coach came up to the door , and Mrs. Scudder , she wrapped Mary up , kissing her , and crying over her , while Mrs. Marvyn stood stretching her arms out of the coach after her . 
In regard to his feelings for Mary , he made the sacrifice of himself to her happiness so wholly and thoroughly that there was not a moment of weak hesitation , -- no going back over the past , -- no vain regret . 
His diary records the event only in these very calm and temperate words : -- `` It was a trial to me , -- a very greattrial ; but as she did not deceive me , I shall never lose my friendship for her . '' 
The Doctor was always a welcome inmate in the house of Mary and James , as a friend revered and dear . 
Shortly after Mary 's marriage , Madame de Frontignac sailed with her husband for home , where they lived in a very retired way on a large estate in the South of France . 
An intimate correspondence was kept up between her and Mary for many years , from which we shall give our readers a few extracts . 
Her first letter is dated shortly after her return to France . 
For , after all , Mary , I have lost nothing that ever was mine , -- only my foolish heart has grown to something that it should not , and bleeds at being torn away . 
I know that man , Mary , -- and I know , that , sinful as he may be before Infinite Purity , he is not so much more sinful than all the other men of his time . 
