`` Matilda , take a candle , and show her her room , '' said she . 
Miss Matilda , a strapping hoiden , of about fourteen , with a short frock and trousers , shrugged her shoulders , and made a sligh grimace , but took a candle and proceeded before me , up the back stairs , a long , steep , double flight , and through a long , narrow passage , to a small , but tolerably comfortable room . 
Miss Murray , otherwise Rosalie , was about sixteen when I came , and decidedly a very pretty girl ; and in two years longer , as time more completely devloped her form , and added grace to her carriage and deportment , she was was positively beautiful ; and that in no common degree . 
There was no member of it in whom I regretted this sad want of principle so much as Miss Murray herself ; not only because she had taken a fancy to me , but because there was so much of what was pleasant and pre-possessing in herself , that , in spite of her failings , I really liked her -- when she did not rouse my indignation , or ruffle my temper by too great a display of her faults , which however . 
I would fain persuade myself , were rather the effect of her education than her disposition : she had never been perfectly taught the distinction between right and wrong ; she had , like her brothers and sisters , been suffered from infancy , to tyrannize over nurses , governesses , and servants ; she had not been taught to moderate her desires , to control her temper or bridle her will , or to sacrifice her own pleasure for the good of others ; her temper being naturally good , she was never violent or morose , but from constant indulgence and habitual scorn of reason , she was often testy and capricious ; her mind had never been cultivated : her intellect at best was somewhat shallow ; she possessed considerable vivacity , some quickness of perception , and some talent for music and the acquisition of languages , but till fifteen , she had troubled herself to acquire nothing ; -- then the love of display had roused her faculties ; and induced her to apply herself , but only to the more showy accomplishments ; and when I came , it was the same -- everything was neglected but French , German , music , singing , dancing , fancy-work , and a little drawing -- such drawing as might produce the greatest show with the smallest labour , and the principal parts of which were generally done by me . 
For music and singing , besides my occasional instruction , she had the attendance of the best master the country afforded ; and in them , as well as in dancing , she certainly attained great proficiency , To music , indeed , she devoted too much of her time , as , governess though I was I frequently told her : but her mother thought that if she liked it , she could not give too much time to the acquisition of so attractive an accomplishment . 
Of fancy-work I knew nothing but what I gathered from my pupil and my own observation ; but no sooner was I initiated , than she made me useful in twenty different ways : all the tedious parts of her work were shifted onto my shoulders ; such as , stretching the frames , stitching in the canvass , sorting the wools and silks , putting in the grounds , counting the stitches , rectifying mistakes , and finishing the pieces she was tired of . 
At sixteen , Miss Murray was something of a romp , yet not more so than is natural and allowable for a girl of that age ; but at seventeen , that propensity , like all other things , began to give way to the ruling passion , and soon was swallowed up in the all absorbing ambition , to attract and dazzle the other sex . 
Miss Matilda Murray was a veritable hoyden , of whom little need be said . 
She was about two years and a half younger than her sister ; her features were larger , her complexion much darker . 
She might possibly make a handsome woman , but she was far too big-boned and awkward ever to be called a pretty girl , and , at present , she cared little about it . 
Rosalie knew all her charms , and thought them even greater than they were , and valued them more highly than she ought to have done had they been three times as great ; Matilda thought she was well enough , but cared little about the matter ; still less did she care about the cultivation of her mind , and the acquisition of ornamental accomplishments . 
The manner in which she learnet her lessons and practised her music was calculated to drive any governess to despair . 
Short and easy as her tasks were , if done at all , they were slurred over at any time , and in any way , but generally at the least convenient times , and in the way least beneficial to herself , and least satisfactory to me ; and the short half-hour of practising was horribly strummed thorugh ; she , meantime , unsparingly abusing me , either for interrupting her with corrections , or for not rectifying her mistakes before they were made , or something equally unreasonable . 
Once or twice , I ventured to remonstrate with her seriously for such irrational conduct ; but , on each of these occasions , I received such reprehensive expostulations from her mother , as convinced me that , if I wished to keep the situation , I must even let Miss Matilda go on in her own way . 
As an animal , Matilda was all right , full of life , vigour , and activity ; as an intelligent being , she was barbarously ignorant , indocile , careless , and irrational , and , consequently , very distressing to one who had the task of cultivating her understanding , reforming her manners , and aiding her to acquire those ornamental attainments which , unlike her sister , she despised as much as the rest : her mother was partly aware of her deficiencies , and gave me many a lecture as to how I should try to form her tastes , and endeavour to rouse and cherish her dormant vanity , and , by insinuating , skilful flattery , to win her attention to the desired objects -- which I would not do -- and how I should prepare and smooth the path of learning till she could glide along it without the least exertion to herself , which I could not , for nothing can be taught to any purpose without some little exertion on the part of the learner . 
`` It 's very odd , Miss Grey , that the carriage should always make you sick ; it never makes me , '' remarked Miss Matilda . 
Sometimes Matilda and John would determine `` to get all the plaguy business over before breakfast , '' and send the maid to call me up at half-past five , without any scruple or apology ; sometimes , I was told to be ready precisely at six , and , having dressed in a hurry , came down to an empty room , and after waiting a long time in suspense , discovered that they had changed their minds , and were still in bed ; or , perhaps , if it were a fine summer morning , Brown would come to tell me that the young ladies and gentlemen had taken a holiday , and were gone out ; and then , I was kept waiting for breakfast , till I was almost ready to faint ; they having fortified themselves with something before they went . 
At eighteen , Miss Murray was to emerge from the quiet obscurity of the school-room into the full blaze of the fashionable world -- as much of it , at least , as could be had out of London ; for her papa could not be persuaded to leave his rural pleasures and pursuits , even for a few weeks ' residence in town . 
She was to make her debut on the third of January , at a magnificent ball , which her mamma proposed to give to all the nobility and choice gentry of O -- and its neighbourhood for twenty miles round . 
Of course , she looked forward to it with the wildest impatience , and the most extravagant anticipations of delight . 
`` Miss Grey , '' said she , one evening , a month before the all important day , as I was perusing a long and extremely interesting letter of my sister 's which I had just glanced at , in the morning , to see that it contained no very bad news , and kept till now , unable before to find a quiet moment for reading it . 
I should be very sorry to receive a charming little lady-like note from any of them ; and I thought you were too much of a lady yourself , Miss Murray , to talk about the ` vulgarity ' of writing on a large sheet of paper . '' 
`` Now Miss Grey , '' exclaimed Miss Murray , immediately as I entered the school-room , after having taken off my out-door garments , upon returning from my four weeks ' recreation , `` Now shut the door , and sit down , and I 'll tell you all about the ball . '' 
shouted Miss Matilda . 
a fine blood mare -- '' `` Do be quiet Matilda ! 
`` I 'm sorry to hear , Miss Matilda , that you 've not got rid of that shocking habit yet . '' 
Rosalie remonstrated , and I thought I should have been torn in pieces between them ; but , Miss Matilda having the loudest voice , her sister at length , gave in , and suffered her to tell her story first : so I was doomed to hear a long account of her splendid mare , its breeding and pedigree , its paces , its action , its spirit , & c. , and of her own amazing skill and courage in riding it , concluding with an assertion that she could clear a five-barred gate `` like winking , '' that papa said she might hunt next time the hounds met , and mama had ordered a bright scarlet hunting-habit for her . 
`` Oh , Matilda ! 
exclaimed her sister . 
`` Well , '' answered she , no whit abashed , `` I know I could clear a five-barred gate , if I tried , and papa will say I may hunt , and mama will order the habit when I ask them . '' 
`` Well , now get along , '' replied Miss Murray ; `` and do , dear Matilda try to be a little more lady-like . 
and his jolly friends , '' said the young lady , vigorously cracking a hunting-whip , which she habitually carried in her hand . 
I was charming -- was n't I Matilda ? '' 
My lord was very complimentary too -- rather too much so in fact , and I thought proper to be a little haughty and repellent ; but I had the pleasure of seeing his nasty , cross wife ready to perish with spite and vexation -- '' `` Oh Miss Murray ! 
Then she returned to the ball , and gave me a further account of her deportment there , and at the several parties she had since attended , and further particulars respecting Sir Thomas Ashby and Messrs. Meltham , Green , and Hatfield , and the ineffaceable impression she had wrought upon each of them . 
`` I detest them all , '' replied she , shaking her bright ringlets in vivacious scorn . 
asked Miss Murray , on our return from church the Sunday after the re-commencement of my duties . 
`` I suppose you would have had him cast a glance into the squire 's pew , '' said I , laughing at the vehemence of her hostility . 
replied she , haughtily tossing her head ; then , after a moment 's reflection , she added -- `` Well , well ! 
Miss Murray ordered the carriage again , in the afternoon , for herself and her sister : she said it was too cold for them to enjoy themselves in the garden ; and , besides , she believed Harry Meltham would be at church . 
`` For , '' said she , smiling slyly at her own fair image in the glass , `` he has been a most exemplary attendant at church these last few Sundays . 
said Miss Murray , as we took our places in the carriage after service . 
repeated she in amazement . 
very much indeed , '' replied I ; for I had now discovered that it was Harry Meltham she meant , not Mr. Weston . 
`` You sha n't have him all to yourself , Rosalie , '' said Miss Matilda , at the close of this discussion ; `` I like him : I know he 'd make a nice , jolly companion for me . '' 
Well , you 're quite welcome to him , Matilda , '' replied her sister , in a tone of affected indifference . 
`` My dear Matilda ! 
`` I ca n't possibly prevent it , Miss Murray . '' 
`` And you 're quite mistaken , Matilda , in supposing that Harry Meltham admires you : I assure you he does nothing of the kind . '' 
Matilda was beginning an angry reply ; but happily , our journey was now at an end ; and the contention was cut short by the footman 's opening the carriage door , and letting down the steps for our descent . 
As I had now only one regular pupil -- though she contrived to give me as much trouble as three or four ordinary ones , and though her sister still took lessons in German and drawing -- I had considerably more time at my own disposal than I had ever been blessed with before , since I had taken upon me the governess 's yoke ; which time , I devoted , partly to correspondence with my friends , partly to reading , study , and the practice of music , singing , & c. , partly to wandering in the grounds or adjacent fields , with my pupils , if they wanted me , alone if they did not . 
Often , when they had no more agreeable occupation at hand , the Misses Murray would amuse themselves with visiting the poor cottagers on their father 's estate to receive their flattering homage , or to hear the old stories , or gossipping news of the garrulous old women ; or , perhaps , to enjoy the purer pleasure of making the poor people happy with their cheering presence , and their occasional gifts , so easily bestowed , so thankfully received . 
I made many and various attempts to deliver my pupils from these delusive notions without alarming their pride , which was easily offended and not soon appeased , but with little apparent result ; and I know not which was the more reprehensible of the two : Matilda was more rude and boisterous ; but from Rosalie 's womanly age and lady-like exterior better things were expected : yet she was as provokingly careless and inconsiderate as a giddy child of twelve . 
One bright day in the last week of February , I was walking in the park , enjoying the threefold luxury of solitude , a book , and pleasant weather , for Miss Matilda had set out on her daily ride , and Miss Murray was gone in the carriage with her mamma to pay some morning calls . 
I remembered then , with a species of exultation , that he had frequently been styled a vulgar brute by the amiable Miss Murray , because he sported a silver watch , and clothes not quite so bright and fresh as Mr. Hatfield 's . 
I had early formed my opinion of him , and , in spite of Miss Murray 's objurgations , was fully convinced that he was a man of strong sense , firm faith , and ardent piety , but thoughtful and stern : and when I found that , to his other good qualities , was added that of true benevolence , and gentle , considerate kindness , the discovery , perhaps , delighted me the more , as I had not been prepared to expect it . 
The next visit I payed to Nancy Brown , was in the second week in March , for , though I had many spare minutes during the day , I seldom could look upon an hour as entirely my own , since , where everything was left to the caprices of Miss Matilda and her sister , there could be no order or regularity , and whatever occupation I chose , when not actually busied about them , or their concerns , I had , as it were , to keep my loins girded , my shoes on my feet , and my staff in my hand : for , not to be immediately forth coming when called for , was regarded as a grave and inexcusable offence , not only by my pupils and their mother , but by the very servant who came in breathless haste to call me , exclaiming -- `` You 're to go to the school-room directly , mum -- the young ladies is WAITING !! '' 
But this time , I was pretty sure of an hour or two to myself , for Matilda was preparing for a long ride , and Rosalie was dressing for a dinner party at Lady Ashby 's : so I took the opportunity of repairing to the widow 's cottage , where I found her in some anxiety about her cat , which had been absent all day . 
I went on with my sewing as long as I could see ; and then bid Nancy good evening , checking her too lively gratitude by the undeniable assurance , that I had only done for her , what she would have done for me , if she had been in my place , and I in hers , and hastened back to Horton Lodge ; where having entered the school-room , I found the tea-table all in confusion , the tray flooded with slops , and Miss Matilda in a most ferocious humour . 
I bore her coarse reproaches with astonishing equanimity , even with cheerfulness ; for I was sensible that I had done more good to Nancy Brown , than harm to her ; and perhaps some other thoughts assisted to keep up my spirits , and impart a relish to the cup of cold , overdrawn tea , and a charm to the otherwise unsightly table , and -- I had almost said -- to Miss Matilda 's unamiable face . 
But she soon betook herself to the stables , and left me to the quiet enjoyment of my solitary meal . 
Miss Murray now always went twice to church , for she so loved admiration that she could not bear to lose a single opportunity of obtaining it ; and she was so sure of it , wherever she showed herself , that whether Harry Meltham and Mr. Green were there or not , there was certain to be somebody present , who would be not insensible to her charms , besides the rector , whose official capacity generally obliged him to attend . 
Usually , also , if the weather permitted , both she and her sister would walk home ; Matilda because she hated the confinement of the carriage ; she , because she disliked the privacy of it , and enjoyed the company that generally enlivened the first mile of the journey in walking from the church to Mr. Green 's parkgates , near which , commenced the private road to Horton Lodge , which lay in the opposite direction ; while the highway conducted , in a straight-forward course to the still more distant mansion of Sir Hugh Meltham . 
One such occasion I particularly well remember , it was a lovely afternoon about the close of March ; Mr. Green and his sisters had sent their carriage back empty , in order to enjoy the bright sunshine and balmy air in a sociable walk home along with their visiters , Captain Somebody and Lieutenant Somebody else -LRB- a couple of military fops , -RRB- and the Misses Murray , who of course , contrived to join them . 
And this , I thought , accounted for the shade of premature thoughtfulness that so frequently clouded his brow , and obtained for him the reputation of a morose and sullen disposition with the charitable Miss Murray and all her kin . 
`` Now come Miss Murray , do n't be foolish , '' said I attempting a good-natured laugh , `` you know such nonsense can make no impression on me . '' 
now Matilda , I 've found out why she 's so fond of going to Nancy Brown 's ! 
Soon after breakfast , Miss Matilda , having gallopped and blundered through a few unprofitable lessons , and vengeably thumped the piano for an hour , in a terrible humour with both me and it , because her mama would not give her a holiday , had betaken herself to her favorite places of resort , the yards the stables , and the dog-kennels : and Miss Murray , was gone forth to enjoy a quiet ramble with a new fashionable novel for her companion , leaving me in the school-room , hard at work upon a water-colour drawing I had promised to do for her , and which she insisted upon my finishing that day , At my feet lay a little rough terrier It was the property of Miss Matilda ; but she hated the animal , and intended to sell it , alleging that it was quite spoiled . 
It was really an excellent dog of its kind ; but she affirmed it was fit for nothing , and had not even the sense to know its own mistress . 
`` I think , ma'am Miss Murray is reading ; and Miss Matilda is amusing herself with her dogs . '' 
`` If you would try to amuse Miss Matilda yourself a little more , I think she would not be driven to seek amusement in the companionship of dogs and horses , and grooms , so such as she is ; and if you would be a little more cheerful and conversable with Miss Murray , she would not so often go wandering in the fields with a book in her hand . 
if you -- if any governess had but half a mother 's watchfulness -- half a mother 's anxious care , I should be saved this trouble ; and you would see at once the necessity of keeping your eye upon her , and making your company agreeable to -- Well go -- go ; there 's no time to be be lost , '' cried she , seeing that I had put away my drawing materials , and was waiting in the door-way for the conclusion of her address , According to her prognostications , I found Miss Murray in her favorite field just without the park ; and , unfortunately , not alone ; for the tall , stately figure of Mr. Hatfield was slowly sauntering by her side . 
Mr. Hatfield could not be driven away by so insignificant a person as I ; and to go and place myself on the other side of Miss Murray , and intrude my unwelcome presence upon her without noticing her companion , was a piece of rudeness I could not be guilty of : neither had I the courage to cry aloud from the top of the field that she was wanted elsewhere . 
So I took the intermediate course of walking slowly , but steadily towards them , resolving , if my approach failed to scare away the beau , to pass by and tell Miss Murray her mama wanted her . 
She certainly looked very charming as she strolled lingering along under the budding horse-chestnut trees that stretched their long arms over the park-palings , with her closed book in one hand , and in the other , a graceful sprig of myrtle which served her as a very pretty plaything ... her bright ringlets escaping profusely from her little bonnet , and gently stirred by the breeze , her fair cheek flushed with gratified vanity , her smiling blue eyes , now slyly glancing towards her admirer , now gazing downward at her myrtle sprig . 
But Snap , running before me , interrupted her in the midst of some half pert , half playful repartee , by catching hold of her dress and vehemently tugging thereat , till Mr. Hatfield , with his cane administered a resounding thwack upon the animal 's skull , and sent it yelping back to me , with a clamorous outcry that afforded the reverend gentleman great amusement ; but seeing me so near , he thought I suppose , he might as well be taking his departure ; and as I stooped to caress the dog , with ostentatious pity to shew my disapproval of his severity , I heard him say , `` When shall I see you again , Miss Murray ? '' 
`` At church , I suppose , '' replied she , `` unless your business chances to bring you here again , at the precise moment when I happen to be walking by . '' 
`` Is it really so Miss Murray ? 
`` To be sure she does ! 
She knows more against him than I do , I believe : she keeps it from me lest I should be discouraged ; not knowing how little I care about such things . 
Miss Murray , by her liberality , obtained literally the blessing of him that was ready to perish ; for though the half-crown could be of very little service to him , he was glad of it for the sake of his wife and children , so soon to be widowed and fatherless . 
While I was walking along , happy within , and pleased with all around , Miss Murray came hastening to meet me ; her buoyant step , flushed cheek , and radiant smiles shewing that she , too , was happy , in her own way . 
Running up to me , she put her arm in mine , and without waiting to recover breath , began -- `` Now Miss Grey , think yourself highly honoured , for I 'm come to tell you my news before I 've breathed a word of it to any one else . '' 
I ca n't tell you all about it now , for there 's Matilda , I see , in the park , and I must go and open my budget to her . 
After a silence of considerable duration , during which he struggled to be calm , and I to be grave -- for I felt a strong propensity to laugh -- which would have ruined all -- he said , with the ghost of a smile ; ` `` But tell me plainly , Miss Murray ; if I had the wealth of Sir Hugh Meltham , or the prospects of his eldest son , would you still refuse me ? 
There was he , suffering so unspeakably , and there was I , the pitiless cause of it all , so utterly impenetrable to all the artillery of his looks and words , so calmly cold and proud , he could not but feel some resentment ; and with singular bitterness he began , ``` I certainly did not expect this , Miss Murray . 
I will not suppose , Miss Murray , that you know how deeply you have injured me . 
If my presence is disagreeable to you , Miss Murray , ' he said , -LRB- for I was looking about me to show how little I cared for him , so he thought I was tired of him , I suppose , -RRB- ` If my presence is disagreeable to you , Miss Murray , you have only to promise me the favour I named , and I will relieve you at once . 
`` Well , well , she sha n't hear it then , '' said Miss Murray , somewhat snappishly . 
-- Here 's Matilda ; I 'll see what she and mamma have to say about it . '' 
She left me , offended at my want of sympathy , and thinking , no doubt , that I envied her . 
I was sorry for her ; I was amazed , disgusted at her heartless vanity ; I wondered why so much beauty should be given to those who made so bad a use of it , and denied to some who would make it a benefit to both themselves and others . 
There are , I suppose , some men as vain , as selfish , and as heartless as she is , and perhaps such women may be useful to punish them . 
`` Pity you were so cross to him , '' observed Matilda , to whom this lamentation was addressed . 
my beau must be an Adonis indeed , Matilda , the admired of all beholders , if I am to be contented with him alone . 
exclaimed Matilda , somewhat , contemptuously . 
Her sister was slightly offended ; but the event proved Matilda was right . 
He had been disappointed in his certain hope of obtaining not only a beautiful and , to him , highly attractive wife , but one whose rank and fortune might give brilliance to far inferior charms : he was likewise , no doubt , intensely mortified by his repulse , and deeply offended at the conduct of Miss Murray throughout . 
It would have given him no little consolation to have known how disappointed she was to find him apparently so little moved , and to see that he was able to refrain from casting a single glance at her throughout both the services , though , she declared , it showed he was thinking of her all the time , or his eyes would have fallen upon her , if it were only by chance ; but if they had so chanced to fall , she would have affirmed it was because they could not resist the attraction . 
It might have pleased him too , in some degree , to have seen how dull and dissatisfied she was throughout that week , -LRB- the greater part of it , at least , -RRB- for lack of her usual source of excitement ; and how often she regretted having `` used him up so soon , '' like a child that , having devoured its plumcake too hastily , sits sucking its fingers , and vainly lamenting its greediness . 
At length , I was called upon , one fine morning , to accompany her in a walk to the village . 
Ostensibly she went to get some shades of Berlin wool at a tolerably respectable shop that was chiefly supported by the ladies of the vicimity : really -- I trust there is no breech of charity in supposing , that she went with the idea of meeting either with the rector himself , or some other admirer by the way ; for as we went along , she kept wondering , `` what Hatfield would do or say if we met him , '' & c. , & c. , as we passed Mr. Green 's park-gates , she `` wondered whether he was at home -- great stupid blockhead ; '' as Lady Meltham 's carriage passed us she `` wondered what Mr. Harry was doing this fine day ; '' and then began to abuse his elder brother for being `` such a fool as to get married and go and live in London . '' 
Then , observing the prints of a horse 's feet on the somewhat miry road , she `` wondered whether it was a gentleman 's horse , '' and finally concluded it was , for the impressions were too small to have been made by a `` great , clumsy cart horse ; '' and then she `` wondered who the rider could be , '' and whether we should meet him coming back , for she was sure he had only passed that morning ; and lastly , when we entered the village and saw only a few of its humble inhabitants moving about , she `` wondered why the stupid people could n't keep in their houses ; she was sure she did n't want to see their ugly faces , and dirty , vulgar clothes -- it was n't for that she came to Horton ! '' 
On entering the shop , Miss Murray desired me to stand in the doorway while she transacted her business , and tell her if any one passed . 
As they stood parleying at the park-gates , attempting to persuade Miss Murray to come in , I wished Mr. Weston would go , that she might not see him with me when she turned round ; but , unfortunately , his business , which was to pay one more visit to poor Mark Wood , led him to pursue the same path as we did , till nearly the close of our journey . 
After a short pause in the conversation , Mr. Weston made some remark addressed particularly to me , as referring to something we had been talking of before ; but , before I could answer , Miss Murray replied to the observation and enlarged upon it : he rejoined ; and , from thence to the close of the interview , she engrossed him entirely to herself . 
It might be partly owing to my own stupidity , my want of tact and assurance ; but I felt myself wronged ; I trembled with apprehension ; and I listened with envy to her easy , rapid flow of utterance , and saw with anxiety the bright smile with which she looked into his face from time to time , for she was walking a little in advance for the purpose , -LRB- as I judged -RRB- of being seen as well as heard . 
If her conversation was light and trivial , it was amusing , and she was never at a loss for something to say , or for suitable words to express it in . 
There was nothing pert or flippant in her manner now , as when she walked with Mr. Hatfield ; there was only a gentle , playful kind of vivacity which I thought must be peculiarly pleasing to a man of Mr. Weston 's disposition and temperament . 
When he was gone she began to laugh , and muttered to herself . 
Miss Murray made several trivial observations as we passed up the park , to which , -LRB- in spite of my reluctance to let one glimpse of my feelings appear , -RRB- I could only answer by monosyllables . 
Whether she intended to torment me , or merely to amuse herself , I could not tell -- and did not much care ; but I thought of the poor man and his one lamb , and the rich man with his thousand flocks ; and I dreaded I knew not what for Mr. Weston , independently of my own blighted hopes . 
Almost immediately after the conclusion of the service , Miss Murray left the church . 
I wondered at her coming forth so hastily , for neither young Meltham nor Squire Green were there ; but I soon found it was to secure an interview with Mr. Weston as he came out , which he presently did , and , having saluted us both , would have passed on , but she detained him ; first with observations upon the disagreeable weather , and then with asking if he would be so kind as to come sometime to-morrow to see the granddaughter of the old woman who kept the porter 's lodge , for the girl was ill of a fever , and wished to see him . 
Here was a wonderful instance of consideration from the thoughtless Miss Murray . 
By this time the carriage was ready , and the footman was waiting , with an open umbrella , to escort Miss Murray through the church-yard . 
Miss Murray bent forwards , and looked out of the window as we were passing Mr. Weston . 
cried she throwing herself back again in the seat . 
I saw she was out of humour , and I derived a secret gratification from the fact ; not that she was vexed , but that she thought she had reason to be so . 
`` I mean to take up Mr. Weston instead of Mr. Hatfield , '' said my companion after a short pause , resuming something of her usual cheerfulnes . 
I was far too indignant to hazard a reply to her observation aloud ; and nothing more was said about Mr. Weston that day , by me or in my hearing . 
But next morning , soon after breakfast , Miss Murray came into the school-room where her sister was employed with me at her studies ... or rather her lessons , for studies they were not ... and said , `` Matilda , I want you to take a walk with me about eleven o'clock . '' 
Now , therefore , let us return to Miss Murray . 
She accompanied her mama to the ball on Tuesday ; of course , splendidly attired , and delighted with her prospects and her charms . 
Miss Murray only laughed at what I said ; and I soon found that her reluctance to an immediate union arose chiefly from a desire to do what execution she could among the young gentlemen of her acquaintance before she was incapacitated from further mischief of the kind . 
It was for this cause that , before confiding to me the secret of her engagement , she had extracted a promise that I would not mention a word on the subject to any one . 
And when I saw this , and when I beheld her plunge more recklessly than ever into the depths of heartless coquetry , I had no more pity for her . 
Meantime , young Meltham was pretty frequent in his visits to the house or transits past it ; and , judging by Matilda 's execrations and reproaches , her sister paid more attention to him than civility required -- in other words she carried on as animated a flirtation as the presence of her parents would admit . 
She made some attempts to bring Mr. Hatfield once more to her feet ; but finding them unsuccessful , she repaid his haughty indifference with still loftier scorn , and spoke of him with as much disdain and detestation as she had formerly done of his curate . 
But , amid all this , she never for a moment lost sight of Mr. Weston . 
She embraced every opportunity of meeting him , tried every art to fascinate him , and pursued him with as much perseverance as if she really loved him -- and no other , and the happiness of her life depended upon eliciting a return of affection . 
I could not even see him at church , for Miss Murray , under some trivial pretext , chose to take possession of that corner in the family pew , which had been mine ever since I came ; and , unless I had the presumption to station myself between Mr. and Mrs. Murray , I must sit with my back to the pulpit , which I accordingly did . 
`` And he asked if you were ill , Miss Grey , '' said Matilda ; `` but we told him you were quite well , only you did n't want to come to church -- so he 'll think you 're turned wicked . '' 
All chance meetings on week days were likewise carefully prevented ; for , lest I should go to see poor Nancy Brown or any other person , Miss Murray took good care to provide sufficient employment for all my leisure hours . 
There was always some drawing to finish , some music to copy , or some work to do , sufficient to incapacitate me from indulging in anything beyond a short walk about the grounds , however she or her sister might be occupied . 
`` And he asked after you again , '' said Matilda , in spite of her sister 's silent , but imperative intimation that she should hold her tongue . 
`` He did n't , Matilda -- what nonsense you 're talking ! '' 
`` I do n't think it would , '' replied Miss Murray , suddenly kindling up ; `` I 'm sure you have plenty of time to yourself now , when you have so little teaching to do . '' 
Only those who have felt the like can imagine my feelings , as I sat with an assumption of smiling indifference , listening to the accounts of those meetings and interviews with Mr. Weston , which they seemed to find such pleasure in describing to me , and hearing things asserted of him which , from the character of the man , I knew to be exaggerations and perversions of the truth , if not entirely false -- things derogatory to him , and flattering to them -- especially to Miss Murray -- which I burned to contradict , or , at least , to show my doubts about , but dared not , lest , in expressing my disbelief , I should display my interest too . 
Sunday however was approaching : I should see him then ; for now that Miss Murray was gone , I could have my old corner again -- I should see him ; and by look , speech , and manner I might judge whether the circumstance of her marriage had very much afflicted him . 
I walked home with Miss Matilda , but he did not join us . 
Matilda was now sadly at a loss for amusement , and wofully in want of a companion . 
Her brothers at school -- her sister married and gone -- she too young to be admitted into society , for which , from Rosalie 's example , she was in some degree beginning to acquire a taste -- a taste at least for , the company of certain classes of gentlemen -- at this dull time of the year -- no hunting going on ... no shooting even ... for , though she might not join in that , it was something to see her father or the gamekeeper go out with the dogs , and to talk with them , on their return , about the different birds they had bagged . 
Of course , she was not implicitly obeyed ; but indulgent as she had hitherto been , when once her spirit was roused , her temper was not so gentle as she required that of her governesses to be , and her will was not to be thwarted with impunity ; and after many a scene of contention between mother and daughter , many a violent outbreak which I was ashamed to witness , in which the father 's authority was often called in to confirm , with oaths and threats , the mother 's slighted prohibitions ... for even he could see that `` Tiffy , though she would have made a fine lad , was not quite what a young lady ought to be -- Matilda at length found that her easiest plan was to keep clear of the forbidden regions , unless she could now and then steal a visit without her watchful mother 's knowledge . 
Frequently , I was told to amuse Miss Matilda with other things , and to remind her of her mother 's precepts and prohibitions . 
However , as I have said , Matilda at length yielded , in some degree , to her mother 's authority -LRB- pity it had not been exerted before -RRB- , and being thus deprived of almost every source of amusement , there was nothing for it but to take long rides with the groom and long walks with the governess , and to visit the cottages and farm-houses on her father 's estate , to kill time in chatting with the old men and women that inhabited them . 
After a brief salutation to both , he asked Matilda if she had lately heard from her sister . 
`` Yes , '' replied she . 
She spoke the last word emphatically , and with a glance impertinently sly . 
I ventured to inquire , for Matilda had started off in pursuit of her dog that was chasing a leveret . 
Matilda now came panting back , with the lacerated body of the young hare in her hand . 
`` Was it your intention to kill that hare , or to save it , Miss Murray ? '' 
asked Mr. Weston , apparently puzzled at her gleeful countenance . 
`` I pretended to want to save it , '' she answered , honestly enough , `` as it was so glaringly out of season ; but I was better pleased to see it killed . 
However , you can both witness that I could n't help it ; Prince was determined to have her ; and he clutched her by the back , and killed her in a minute ! 
There was a quiet sarcasm in the tone of his reply which was not lost upon her ; she shrugged her shoulders , and , turning away with a significant `` Humph ! '' 
cried Matilda . 
He came suddenly upon me as I was crossing a field in returning from a visit to Nancy Brown , which I had taken the opportunity of paying while Matilda Murray was riding her matchless mare . 
`` Will you regret to part with Miss Murray ... your sole remaining pupil and companion ? '' 
`` I dare say I shall in some degree -- it was not without sorrow I parted with her sister . '' 
`` Well , Miss Matilda is quite as good ... better in one respect . '' 
`` She 's honest . '' 
`` I should not call her dishonests ; but it must be confessed , she 's a little artful . '' 
`` Artful is she ? 
-- I saw she was giddy and vain -- and now , '' he added , after a pause , `` I can well believe she was artful too , but so excessively so as to assume an aspect of extreme simplicity and unguarded openness . 
the time ebbed away ; one week followed another , and , excepting one distant glimpse , and two transient meetings -- during which scarcely anything was said -- while I was walking with Miss Matilda , I saw nothing of him -- except , of course , at church . 
In the church-yard , Matilda was pounced upon by the two Misses Green . 
They had many inquiries to make about her sister , and I know not what besides . 
I walked along with Miss Murray , turning aside my face and neglecting to notice several successive remarks , till she bawled out I was either deaf or stupid , and then , -LRB- having recovered my self-possession -RRB- as one awakened from a fit of abstraction , I suddenly looked up and asked what she had been saying . 
he always speaks impressively ; and at that moment , there were the Greens and Miss Matilda Murray just before , and other people passing by , and he was obliged to stand close beside you , and to speak very low , unless he wished everybody to hear what he said , which -- though it was nothing at all particular -- of course , he would rather not . '' 
Early in June , I received a letter from Lady Ashby , late Miss Murray . 
She had written to me twice or thrice before , from the different stages of her bridal tour , always in good spirits , and professing to be very happy . 
I wondered every time that she had not forgotten me in the midst of so much gaiety and variety of scene . 
At length however , there was a pause ; and it seemed she had forgotten me , for upwards of seven months passed away , and no letter . 
Of course , I did not break my heart about that , though I often wondered how she was getting on ; and when this last epistle so unexpectedly arrived , I was glad enough to receive it . 
It was dated from Ashby Park where she was come to settle down at last , having previously divided her time between the Continent and the Metropolis . 
She made many apologies for having neglected me so long , assured me she had not forgotten me , and had often intended to write , & c. , & c. , but always been prevented by something . 
She acknowledged that she had been leading a very dissipated life , and I should think her very wicked and very thoughtless , but notwithstanding that , she thought a great deal , and among other things , that she should vastly like to see me . 
So I began with asking after Mr. and Mrs. Murray , and Miss Matilda and the young gentlemen . 
I was told that papa had got the gout which made him very ferocious , and that he would not give up his choice wines , and his substantial dinners and suppers , and had quarrelled with his physician , because the latter had dared to say , that no medicine could cure him while he lived so freely ; that mamma and the rest were well : Matilda was still wild and reckless , but she had got a fashionable governess , and was considerably improved in her manners , and soon to be introduced to the world ; and that John and Charles , -LRB- now at home for the holidays , -RRB- were , by all accounts , `` fine , bold , unruly , mischievous boys . '' 
Mr. Green is heart-broken , you know , '' replied she , with a languid smile ; `` he has n't got over his disappointment yet , and never will , I suppose . 
`` Oh , they 're jogging on as usual , I suppose ; but I know very little about any of them -- except Harry , '' said she , blushing slightly , and smiling again ; `` I saw a great deal of him while we were in London ; for , as soon as he heard we were there , he came up under pretence of visiting his brother , and either followed me , like a shadow , wherever I went , or met me , like a reflection , at every turn . 
And she bit her lip , and frowned vindictively upon the fair domain she had once so coveted to call her own . 
Again , she brightened up , and answered gaily -- `` Oh ! 
`` I know nothing about him , '' replied she , yawning -- `` except that he went about a month ago -- I never asked where , '' -LRB- I would have asked whether it was to a living or merely another curacy , but thought it better not , -RRB- `` and the people made a great rout about his leaving , '' continued she , `` much to Mr. Hatfield 's displeasure , for Hatfield did n't like him , because he had too much influence with the common people , and because he was not sufficiently tractable and submissive to him -- and for some other unpardonable sins , I do n't know what . 
She then turned to give her orders to the footman who had been standing bolt upright within the door for the last half minute , and had heard the latter part of her animadversions , and , of course , made his own reflections upon them , notwithstanding the inflexible , wooden countenance he thought proper to preserve in the drawing-room . 
On my remarking afterwards that he must have heard her , she replied , `` Oh , no matter ! 
So saying , she ran off to make her hasty toilet , leaving me to pilot my way back to my sitting-room , where , in due time , I was served with a cup of tea ; and , after that , I sat musing on Lady Ashby 's past and present condition ; and on what little information I had obtained respecting Mr. Weston , and the small chance there was of ever seeing or hearing anything more of him throughout my quiet , drab-colour life , which , henceforth , seemed to offer no alternative between positive rainy days , and days of dull , grey clouds without downfall . 
`` And do you detest him Miss Murray ? '' 
Oh , I would give ten thousand worlds to be Miss Murray again ! 
