The present charge , and the chance of future trouble brought upon him by this adventure , occasioned some dissatisfaction ; but the beauty and seeming innocence of Adeline , united with the pleadings of humanity in her favour , and he determined to protect her . 
The tumult of emotions which had passed in the bosom of Adeline , began now to subside ; terror was softened into anxiety , and despair into grief . 
The sympathy so evident in the manners of her companions , particularly in those of Madame La Motte , soothed her heart and encouraged her to hope for better days . 
Adeline derived comfort from the looks of Madame La Motte , who gazed frequently and attentively at her , and thought she had seldom seen a countenance so interesting , or a form so striking . 
The languor of sorrow threw a melancholy grace upon her features , that appealed immediately to the heart ; and there was a penetrating sweetness in her blue eyes , which indicated an intelligent and amiable mind . 
The terrors of La Motte began to subside , and the griefs of Adeline to soften . 
The fresh breeze of the morning animated the spirits of Adeline , whose mind was delicately sensible to the beauties of nature . 
As she viewed the flowery luxuriance of the turf , and the tender green of the trees , or caught , between the opening banks , a glimpse of the varied landscape , rich with wood , and fading into blue and distant mountains , her heart expanded in momentary joy . 
With Adeline the charms of external nature were heightened by those of novelty : she had seldom seen the grandeur of an extensive prospect , or the magnificence of a wide horizon -- and not often the picturesque beauties of more confined scenery . 
Her mind had not lost by long oppression that elastic energy , which resists calamity ; else , however susceptible might have been her original taste , the beauties of nature would no longer have charmed her thus easily even to temporary repose . 
Adeline appeared more tranquil than she had yet been , and La Motte now asked for an explanation of the scene he had witnessed on the preceding night . 
The inquiry renewed all her distress , and with tears she entreated for the present to be spared on the subject . 
La Motte pressed it no farther , but he observed that for the greater part of the day she seemed to remember it in melancholy and dejection . 
Adeline endeavoured to smile , but the languor of grief was now heightened by indisposition . 
The violent agitation of mind , and fatigue of body , which she had suffered for the last twenty-four hours , had overpowered her strength , and , when La Motte led her back to the carriage , her whole frame trembled with illness . 
But she uttered no complaint , and , having long observed the dejection of her companions , she made a feeble effort to enliven them . 
As soon as beds could be prepared , Adeline withdrew to her chamber , accompanied by Madame La Motte , whose concern for the fair stranger made her exert every effort to soothe and console her . 
Adeline wept in silence , and taking the hand of Madame , pressed it to her bosom . 
After some momentary silence , she renewed her assurances of kindness , and entreated Adeline to confide in her friendship ; but she carefully avoided any mention of the subject , which had before so much affected her . 
Adeline at length found words to express her sense of this goodness , which she did in a manner so natural and sincere , that Madame , finding herself much affected , took leave of her for the night . 
Every thing was prepared for his departure , and the breakfast had been waiting some time , but Adeline did not appear . 
Madame La Motte went to her chamber , and found her sunk in a disturbed slumber . 
Her breathing was short and irregular -- she frequently started , or sighed , and sometimes she muttered an incoherent sentence . 
While Madame gazed with concern upon her languid countenance , she awoke , and , looking up , gave her hand to Madame La Motte , who found it burning with fever . 
She had passed a restless night , and , as she now attempted to rise , her head , which beat with intense pain , grew giddy , her strength failed , and she sunk back . 
Madame was much alarmed , being at once convinced that it was impossible she could travel , and that a delay might prove fatal to her husband . 
She went to inform him of the truth , and his distress may be more easily imagined than described . 
He saw all the inconvenience and danger of delay , yet he could not so far divest himself of humanity , as to abandon Adeline to the care , or rather , to the neglect of strangers . 
He sent immediately for a physician , who pronounced her to be in a high fever , and said , a removal in her present state must be fatal . 
Adeline 's fever continued to increase during the whole day , and at night , when the physician took his leave , he told La Motte , the event would very soon be decided . 
The beauty and innocence of Adeline had overcome the disadvantageous circumstances under which she had been introduced to him , and he now gave less consideration to the inconvenience she might hereafter occasion him , than to the hope of her recovery . 
Madame La Motte watched over her with tender anxiety , and observed with admiration , her patient sweetness and mild resignation . 
Adeline amply repaid her , though she thought she could not . 
`` Young as I am , '' she would say , `` and deserted by those upon whom I have a claim for protection , I can remember no connection to make me regret life so much , as that I hoped to form with you . 
The sweetness of her manners so much attracted Madame La Motte , that she watched the crisis of her disorder , with a solicitude which precluded every other interest . 
Adeline passed a very disturbed night , and , when the physician appeared in the morning , he gave orders that she should be indulged with whatever she liked , and answered the inquiries of La Motte with a frankness that left him nothing to hope . 
In the mean time , his patient , after drinking profusely of some mild liquids , fell asleep , in which she continued for several hours , and so profound was her repose , that her breath alone gave sign of existence . 
She awoke free from fever , and with no other disorder than weakness , which , in a few days , she overcame so well , as to be able to set out with La Motte for B -- , a village out of the great road , which he thought it prudent to quit . 
The balmy freshness of the air , which breathed the first pure essence of vegetation ; and the gentle warmth of the sun , whose beams vivified every hue of nature , and opened every floweret of spring , revived Adeline , and inspired her with life and health . 
As she inhaled the breeze , her strength seemed to return , and , as her eyes wandered through the romantic glades that opened into the forest , her heart was gladdened with complacent delight : but when from these objects she turned her regard upon Monsieur and Madame La Motte , to whose tender attentions she owed her life , and in whose looks she now read esteem and kindness , her bosom glowed with sweet affections , and she experienced a force of gratitude which might be called sublime . 
The present scene recalled to Adeline a remembrance of the late terrific circumstances , and her mind responded but too easily to the apprehension of new misfortunes . 
Adeline , who had hitherto remained in silence , now uttered an exclamation of mingled admiration and fear . 
A kind of pleasing dread thrilled her bosom , and filled all her soul . 
Tears started into her eyes : -- she wished , yet feared , to go on ; -- she hung upon the arm of La Motte , and looked at him with a sort of hesitating interrogation . 
`` Let us quit this spot , '' said she , `` any evil is preferable to the feeling , which now oppresses me . 
Thus compelled to acquiesce , she traversed the hall with trembling steps . 
Adeline with a smile , inquired of La Motte , if he believed in spirits . 
La Motte remaining silent , Adeline said , `` Were I inclined to superstition '' -- she was interrupted by a return of the noise , which had been lately heard . 
A new subject of apprehension seized La Motte : -- the noise might proceed from banditti , and he hesitated whether it would be safe to proceed . 
When he unclosed the door , the dismal aspect of the place revived the apprehensions of Madame La Motte , and extorted from Adeline an inquiry whither they were going . 
Adeline approached a large window that formed a kind of recess raised by one step over the level of the floor ; she observed to La Motte that the whole floor was inlaid with Mosaic work ; which drew from him a remark , that the style of this apartment was not strictly Gothic . 
Apprehension gradually gave way to confidence , for they now found themselves in something like a human habitation , and they had leisure to laugh at their late terrors ; but , as the blast shook the doors , Adeline often started , and threw a fearful glance around . 
Adeline felt the forlornness of her condition with energy ; she reflected upon the past with astonishment , and anticipated the future with fear . 
She found herself wholly dependent upon strangers , with no other claim than what distress demands from the common sympathy of kindred beings ; sighs swelled her heart , and the frequent tear started to her eye ; but she checked it , ere it betrayed on her cheek the sorrow , which she thought it would be ungrateful to reveal . 
Adeline slept , but uneasy dreams fleeted before her fancy , and she awoke at an early hour : the recollection of her sorrows arose upon her mind , and yielding to their pressure , her tears flowed silently and fast . 
That she might indulge them without restraint , she went to a window that looked upon an open part of the forest ; all was gloom and silence ; she stood for some time viewing the shadowy scene . 
Adeline 's heart swelled too with gratitude and adoration . 
The scene before her soothed her mind , and exalted her thoughts to the great Author of Nature ; she uttered an involuntary prayer : `` Father of good , who made this glorious scene ! 
Thus confiding in the benevolence of God , she wiped the tears from her eyes , while the sweet union of conscience and reflection rewarded her trust ; and her mind , losing the feelings which had lately oppressed it , became tranquil and composed . 
Adeline listened in silent anxiety to the discourse , and waited the issue of Peter 's report . 
Adeline , who never suffered any good to pass unnoticed , because it came attended with evil , forgot for a while the desolation of the abbey in the beauty of the adjacent scenery . 
The pleasantness of the shades soothed her heart , and the varied features of the landscape amused her fancy ; she almost thought she could be contented to live here . 
Already she began to feel an interest in the concerns of her companions , and for Madame La Motte she felt more ; it was the warm emotion of gratitude and affection . 
The fortitude of Madame La Motte now entirely forsook her , and she wept bitterly . 
Adeline 's heart was as mournful as Madame 's , but she rallied her drooping spirits , and gave the first instance of her kindness by endeavouring to revive those of her friend . 
They now reached the abbey , where Peter was received with great joy ; but the hopes of his mistress and Adeline were repressed , when they learned that he returned , without having executed his commission , and heard his account of the town . 
La Motte 's orders to Peter were heard with almost equal concern by Madame and Adeline ; but the latter concealed her uneasiness , and used all her efforts to overcome that of her friend . 
The sweetness of her behaviour , and the air of satisfaction she assumed , sensibly affected Madame , and discovered to her a source of comfort , which she had hitherto overlooked . 
The affectionate attentions of her young friend promised to console her for the want of other society , and her conversation to enliven the hours which might otherwise be passed in painful regret . 
The observations and general behaviour of Adeline already bespoke a good understanding and an amiable heart , but she had yet more -- she had genius . 
She was now in her nineteenth year ; her figure of the middling size , and turned to the most exquisite proportion ; her hair was dark auburn , her eyes blue , and whether they sparkled with intelligence , or melted with tenderness , they were equally attractive : her form had the airy lightness of a nymph , and , when she smiled , her countenance might have been drawn for the younger sister of Hebe : the captivations of her beauty were heightened by the grace and simplicity of her manners , and confirmed by the intrinsic value of a heart `` That might be shrin 'd in crystal , And have all its movements scann 'd . '' 
`` There is scarcely any condition so bad , '' said Adeline , `` but we may one time or other wish we had not quitted it . 
`` You speak , my dear , '' replied Madame La Motte , `` like one , whose spirits have not been often depressed by misfortune , -LRB- Adeline sighed -RRB- and whose hopes are , therefore , vigorous . '' 
I once , like you , Adeline , could extract comfort from most situations . '' 
`` And may now , my dear Sir , '' said Adeline . 
On the following morning , Peter again set out for the little town of Auboine , and the hours of his absence were again spent by Madame La Motte and Adeline in much anxiety and some hope , for the intelligence he might bring concerning the abbey might yet release them from the plans of La Motte . 
Adeline had no retrospect of past delight to give emphasis to present calamity -- no weeping friends -- no dear regretted objects to point the edge of sorrow , and throw a sickly hue upon her future prospects : she knew not yet the pangs of disappointed hope , or the acuter sting of self-accusation ; she had no misery , but what patience could assuage , or fortitude overcome . 
These , however , being insufficient for the accommodation of the family , a room above stairs was prepared for Adeline : it was the chamber that opened immediately from the tower , and she preferred it to those beyond , because it was less distant from the family , and the windows fronting an avenue of the forest , afforded a more extensive prospect . 
The first night that Adeline retired hither , she slept little : the solitary air of the place affected her spirits ; the more so , perhaps , because she had , with friendly consideration , endeavoured to support them in the presence of Madame La Motte . 
She remembered the narrative of Peter , several circumstances of which had impressed her imagination in spite of her reason , and she found it difficult wholly to subdue apprehension . 
At one time , terror so strongly seized her mind , that she had even opened the door with an intention of calling Madame La Motte ; but , listening for a moment on the stairs of the tower , every thing seemed still ; at length , she heard the voice of La Motte speaking cheerfully , and the absurdity of her fears struck her forcibly ; she blushed that she had for a moment submitted to them , and returned to her chamber wondering at herself . 
At these moments , Adeline , with a sweetness almost irresistible , endeavoured to enliven his spirits , and to withdraw him from himself . 
Seldom she succeeded , but when she did the grateful looks of Madame La Motte , and the benevolent feelings of her own bosom , realized the chearfulness she had at at first only assumed . 
Adeline 's mind had the happy art , or , perhaps , it were more just to say , the happy nature , of accommodating itself to her situation . 
Her present condition , though forlorn , was not devoid of comfort , and this comfort was confirmed by her virtues . 
So much she won upon the affections of her protectors , that Madame La Motte loved her as her child , and La Motte himself , though a man little susceptible of tenderness , could not be insensible to her solicitudes . 
Whenever he relaxed from the sullenness of misery , it was at the influence of Adeline . 
The forest , which at first seemed to her a frightful solitude , had lost its terrific aspect ; and that edifice , whose half demolished walls and gloomy desolation had struck her mind with the force of melancholy and dismay , was now beheld as a domestic asylum , and a safe refuge from the storms of power . 
She was a sensible and highly accomplished woman , and it became her chief delight to form the rising graces of Adeline , who had , as has been already shown , a sweetness of disposition , which made her quick to repay instruction with improvement , and indulgence with love . 
Never was Adeline so pleased as when she anticipated her wishes , and never so diligent as when she was employed in her business . 
The little affairs of the houshold she overlooked and managed with such admirable exactness , that Madame La Motte had neither anxiety , nor care , concerning them . 
And Adeline formed for herself in this barren situation , many amusements , that occasionally banished the remembrance of her misfortunes . 
La Motte 's books were her chief consolation . 
With one of these she would frequently ramble into the forest , where the river , winding through a glade , diffused coolness , and with its murmuring accents , invited repose : there she would seat herself , and , resigned to the illusions of the page , pass many hours in oblivion of sorrow . 
Here too , when her mind was tranquilized by the surrounding scenery , she wooed the gentle muse , and indulged in ideal happiness . 
The delight of these moments she commemorated in the following address Madame La Motte had frequently expressed curiosity concerning the events of Adeline 's life , and by what circumstances she had been thrown into a situation so perilous and mysterious as that in which La Motte had found her . 
Adeline had given a brief account of the manner in which she had been brought thither , but had always with tears intreated to be spared for that time from a particular relation of her history . 
Her spirits were not then equal to retrospection , but now that they were soothed by quiet , and strengthened by confidence , she one day gave Madame La Motte the following narration . 
I am the only child , said Adeline , of Louis de St. Pierre , a chevalier of reputable family , but of small fortune , who for many years resided at Paris . 
These words melted the heart of Adeline ; she kissed the hand which Madame held out , and remained a few minutes silent . 
At length she said , `` May I deserve this goodness ! 
Adeline ceased to speak ; Madame La Motte remained silent . 
There were some circumstances in Adeline 's narrative , which raised all her curiosity . 
She asked if Adeline believed her father to be a party in this mysterious affair . 
Adeline , though it was impossible to doubt that he had been principally and materially concerned in some part of it , thought , or said she thought , he was innocent of any intention against her life . 
Here the inquiry ended ; and Adeline confessed she had pursued it , till her mind shrunk from all farther research . 
Adeline felt her spirits relieved by the disclosure she had made to Madame La Motte ; and the latter acknowledged the value of the confidence , by an increase of affectionate attentions . 
In this pleasure Adeline warmly participated ; and she might justly have congratulated herself , as one cause of his restoration ; her cheerfulness and delicate attention had effected what Madame La Motte 's greater anxiety had failed to accomplish . 
La Motte did not seem regardless of her amiable disposition , and sometimes thanked her in a manner more earnest than was usual with him . 
She , in her turn , considered him as her only protector , and now felt towards him the affection of a daughter . 
The time she had spent in this peaceful retirement had softened the remembrance of past events , and restored her mind to its natural tone : and when memory brought back to her view her former short and romantic expectations of happiness , though she gave a sigh to the rapturous illusion , she less lamented the disappointment , than rejoiced in her present security and comfort . 
No such circumstances appeared to her , and she did not long hesitate to decide , that Adeline was the object of her husband 's attachment . 
Her beauty out of the question , who else , indeed , could it be in a spot thus secluded from the world ? 
The same cause destroyed , almost at the same moment , her only remaining comfort ; and , when she wept that she could no longer look for happiness in the affection of La Motte , she wept also , that she could no longer seek solace in the friendship of Adeline . 
She had too great an esteem for her to doubt at first , the integrity of her conduct , but , in spite of reason , her heart no longer expanded to her with its usual warmth of kindness . 
She shrunk from her confidence ; and , as the secret broodings of jealousy cherished her suspicions , she became less kind to her , even in manner . 
Adeline , observing the change , at first attributed it to accident , and afterwards to a temporary displeasure , arising from some little inadvertency in her conduct . 
She , therefore , increased her assiduities ; but , perceiving , contrary to all expectation , that her efforts to please failed of their usual consequence , and that the reserve of Madame 's manner rather increased than abated , she became seriously uneasy , and resolved to seek an explanation . 
Adeline , however , too much interested in the event to yield to delicate scruples , pressed the subject so closely , that Madame , at first agitated and confused , at length invented some idle excuse , and laughed off the affair . 
She now saw the necessity of subduing all appearance of reserve towards Adeline ; and though her art could not conquer the prejudices of passion , it taught her to assume , with tolerable success , the aspect of kindness . 
Adeline was deceived , and was again at peace . 
Indeed , confidence in the sincerity and goodness of others was her weakness . 
But the pangs of stifled jealousy struck deeper to the heart of Madame La Motte , and she resolved , at all events , to obtain some certainty upon the subject of her suspicions . 
She now condescended to a meanness , which she had before despised , and ordered Peter to watch the steps of his master , in order to discover , if possible , the place of his visitation ! 
So much did passion win upon her judgement , by time and indulgence , that she sometimes ventured even to doubt the integrity of Adeline , and afterwards proceeded to believe it possible that the object of La Motte 's rambles might be an assignation with her . 
What suggested this conjecture was , that Adeline frequently took long walks alone in the forest , and sometimes was absent from the abbey for many hours . 
This circumstance , which Madame La Motte had at first attributed to Adeline 's fondness for the picturesque beauties of nature , now operated forcibly upon her imagination , and she could view it in no other light , than as affording an opportunity for secret conversation with her husband . 
Her impatience thus heightened by delay , and her passion stimulated by difficulty , Madame La Motte now resolved to apply to her husband for an explanation of his conduct . 
After some consideration , concerning the manner most likely to succeed with him , she went to La Motte , but when she entered the room where he sat , forgetting all her concerted address , she fell at his feet , and was , for some moments , lost in tears . 
Surprized at her attitude and distress , he inquired the occasion of it , and was answered , that it was caused by his own conduct . 
Having uttered these words , he quitted the room , leaving Madame La Motte lost in surprize , but somewhat relieved from the pressure of her former suspicions . 
Still , however , she pursued Adeline with an eye of scrutiny ; and the mask of kindness would sometimes fall off , and discover the features of distrust . 
Adeline , without exactly knowing why , felt less at ease and less happy in her presence than formerly ; her spirits drooped , and she would often , when alone , weep at the forlornness of her condition . 
Formerly , her remembrance of past sufferings was lost in the friendship of Madame La Motte ; now , though her behaviour was too guarded to betray any striking instance of unkindness , there was something in her manner which chilled the hopes of Adeline , unable as she was to analyse it . 
But a circumstance , which soon occurred , suspended , for a while , the jealousy of Madame La Motte , and roused her husband from his state of gloomy stupefaction . 
La Motte , extremely shocked at Peter 's intelligence , made no other reply than by cursing his folly , and immediately went in search of Madame , who was walking with Adeline on the banks of the river . 
He then informed her of what Peter had related , and bade her prepare to quit the abbey . 
A flood of tears came to the relief of Madame La Motte , and she hung upon Adeline 's arm , silent and trembling . 
Adeline , though she had no comfort to bestow , endeavoured to command her feelings and appear composed . 
Adeline does not weep , yet her state is as wretched as your own , for I know not how long I shall be able to protect her . '' 
Notwithstanding her terror , this reproof touched the pride of Madame La Motte , who dried her tears , but disdained to reply , and looked at Adeline with a strong expression of displeasure . 
As they moved silently toward the abbey , Adeline asked La Motte if he was sure they were the king 's officers , who inquired for him . 
La Motte now took the light and led the way ; Madame followed , and then Adeline . 
La Motte now passed the chest in haste ; and Madame La Motte and Adeline were too much engrossed by their own thoughts , to give minute attention to external circumstances . 
When they reached the cells , Madame La Motte wept at the necessity which condemned her to a spot so dismal . 
`` Alas , '' said she , `` are we , indeed , thus reduced ! 
Madame La Motte was silent , and Adeline , forgetting her late unkindness , endeavoured as much as she could to console her ; while her heart was sinking with the misfortunes , which she could not but anticipate , she appeared composed , and even cheerful . 
She attended Madame La Motte with the most watchful solicitude , and felt so thankful that La Motte was no secreted within this recess , that she almost lost her perception of its glooms and inconveniences . 
This she artlessly expressed to him , who could not be insensible to the tenderness it discovered . 
The effusions of gratitude she mistook for those of tenderness . 
Tears swelled into her eyes as she spoke these words . 
Adeline wished to relieve her ; but delicacy kept her silent . 
He approached , and taking her hand , `` You must allow for the perturbation of my mind , '' said he , `` I did not mean to afflict you thus . 
Madame La Motte acknowledged the justice of his words , and her mind being relieved by the little apology he had made , she became tolerably cheerful . 
Adeline 's thoughts were too busy to suffer her to repose , and when she believed her companions were sunk in slumbers , she indulged the sorrow which reflection brought . 
She also looked forward to the future with the most mournful apprehension . 
She surveyed it and shuddered ! 
The distresses too of Monsieur and Madame La Motte , whom she loved with the most lively affection , formed no inconsiderable part of her 's . 
Sometimes she looked back to her father ; but in him she only saw an enemy , from whom she must fly : this remembrance heightened her sorrow ; yet it was not the recollection of the suffering he had occasioned her , by which she was so much afflicted , as by the sense of his unkindness : she wept bitterly . 
At length , with that artless piety , which innocence only knows , she addressed the Supreme Being , and resigned herself to his care . 
Her mind then gradually became peaceful and re-assured , and soon after she sunk to repose . 
Madame La Motte and Adeline , in the utmost terror , inquired what had happened . 
The sounds did not seem to approach , but Madame La Motte , unable to command her terror , shrieked aloud : this redoubled the distress of La Motte . 
Adeline stood pale and still as death , supporting Madame La Motte , whom , with difficulty , she prevented from fainting . 
`` Stay , '' said she , `` for my sake , stay ; do not leave me thus , nor throw yourself voluntarily into destruction ! '' 
`` Surely , Sir , '' said Adeline , `` you are too precipitate ; this despair is useless , as it is ill-founded . 
The words of Adeline stilled the tumult of his mind : the agitation of terror subsided ; and reason beamed a feeble ray upon his hopes . 
Adeline observed in her countenance the agitation of her mind , and , surmounting the fears , which had hitherto kept her silent , she offered herself to go . 
`` They will be less likely to offend me , '' said she , `` than a man . '' 
Shame would not suffer La Motte to accept her offer ; and Madame , touched by the magnanimity of her conduct , felt a momentary renewal of all her former kindness . 
Adeline pressed her proposal so warmly , and seemed so much in earnest , that La Motte began to hesitate . 
`` You , Sir , '' said she , `` once preserved me from the most imminent danger , and your kindness has since protected me . 
Madame La Motte could scarcely refrain from tears as Adeline spoke ; and La Motte , sighing deeply , said , `` Well , be it so ; go , Adeline , and from this moment consider me as your debtor . '' 
Adeline stayed not to reply , but taking a light , quitted the cells , La Motte following to raise the trap-door , and cautioning her to look , if possible , into every apartment , before she entered it . 
When she was gone , Madame La Motte 's admiration of her conduct began to yield to other emotions . 
`` It must be a sentiment more powerful than gratitude , '' thought she , `` that could teach Adeline to subdue her fears . 
What , but Love , could influence her to a conduct so generous ! '' 
Madame La Motte , when she found it impossible to account for Adeline 's conduct , without alledging some interested motives for it , however her suspicions might agree with the practice of the world , had surely forgotten how much she once admired the purity and disinterestedness of her young friend . 
Adeline , mean while , ascended to the chambers : the cheerful beams of the sun played once more upon her sight , and re-animated her spirits ; she walked lightly through the apartments , nor stopped till she came to the stairs of the tower . 
Here she stood for some time , but no sounds met her ear , save the sighing of the wind among the trees , and , at length , she descended . 
She passed the apartments below , without seeing any person ; and the little furniture that remained , seemed to stand exactly as she had left it . 
She now ventured to look out from the tower : the only animate objects , that appeared , were the deer , quietly grazing under the shade of the woods . 
Her favourite little fawn distinguished Adeline , and came bounding towards her with strong marks of joy . 
She was somewhat alarmed left the animal , being observed , should betray her , and walked swiftly away through the cloisters . 
She opened the door that led to the great hall of the abbey , but the passage was so gloomy and dark , that she feared to enter it , and started back . 
It was necessary , however , that she should examine farther , particularly on the opposite side of the ruin , of which she had hitherto had no view : but her fears returned when she recollected how far it would lead her from her only place of refuge , and how difficult it would be to retreat . 
She hesitated what to do ; but when she recollected her obligations to La Motte , and considered this as , perhaps , her only opportunity of doing him a service , she determined to proceed . 
As these thoughts passed rapidly over her mind , she raised her innocent looks to heaven , and breathed a silent prayer . 
With trembling steps she proceeded over fragments of the ruin , looking anxiously around , and often starting as the breeze rustled among the trees , mistaking it for the whisperings of men . 
She came to the lawn which fronted the fabric , but no person was to be seen , and her spirits revived . 
The great door of the hall she now endeavoured to open , but suddenly remembering that it was fastened by La Motte 's orders , she proceeded to the north end of the abbey , and , having surveyed the prospect around , as far as the thick foliage of the trees would permit , without perceiving any person , she turned her steps to the tower from which she had issued . 
Adeline was now light of heart , and returned with impatience to inform La Motte of his security . 
In the cloisters she was again met by her little favourite , and stopped for a moment to caress it . 
The fawn seemed sensible to the sound of her voice , and discovered new joy ; but while she spoke , it suddenly started from her hand , and looking up , she perceived the door of the passage , leading to the great hall , open , and a man in the habit of a soldier issue forth . 
With the swiftness of an arrow she fled along the cloisters , nor once ventured to look back ; but a voice called to her to stop , and she heard steps advancing quick in pursuit . 
Before she could reach the tower , her breath failed her , and she leaned against a pillar of the ruin , pale and exhausted . 
The man came up , and gazing at her with a strong expression of surprize and curiosity , he assumed a gentle manner , assured her she had nothing to fear , and inquired if she belonged to La Motte : observing that she still looked terrified and remained silent , he repeated his assurances and his question . 
Adeline trembled so excessively , that it was with difficulty she could support herself -- she hesitated , and knew not what to reply . 
Her manner seemed to confirm the suspicions of the stranger , and her consciousness of this increased her embarrassment : he took advantage of it to press her farther . 
Adeline , at length , replied , that `` La Motte had some time since resided at the abbey . '' 
`` And does still , Madam , '' said the stranger ; `` lead me to where he may be found -- I must see him , and '' -- `` Never , Sir , '' replied Adeline , `` and I solemnly assure you , it will be in vain to search for him . '' 
Without waiting Adeline 's reply , he sprung to the door of the tower . 
She now thought it would betray a consciousness of the truth of his conjecture to follow him , and resolved to remain below . 
But , upon farther consideration , it occurred to her , that he might steal silently into the closet , and possibly surprize La Motte at the door of the trap . 
She , therefore , hastened after him , that her voice might prevent the danger she apprehended . 
He was already in the second chamber , when she overtook him ; she immediately began to speak aloud . 
This room he searched with the most scrupulous care , but finding no private door , or other outlet , he proceeded to the closet : then it was , that it required all her fortitude to conceal her agitation . 
He was turning to quit the closet , when , who can paint the distress of Adeline , upon seeing the trap-door gently raised , and La Motte himself appeared . 
The astonishment of Adeline , for a moment , surpassed even her former distress ; but a remembrance darted across her mind , which explained the present scene , and before La Motte could exclaim , `` My son ! '' 
she knew the stranger as such . 
`` That is a nice distinction , '' said Adeline . 
Adeline , removed from the apprehension of those evils , with which the late situation of La Motte had threatened her , and from the depression which her interest in his occasioned her , now experienced , a more than usual complacency of mind . 
She thought too that she observed in Madame La Motte a renewal of her former kindness , and this circumstance awakened all her gratitude , and imparted to her a pleasure as lively as it was innocent . 
The satisfaction with which the presence of her son inspired Madame La Motte , Adeline mistook for kindness to herself , and she exerted her whole attention in an endeavour to become worthy of it . 
He returned frequently to his haunt in the forest -- the same mysterious sadness tinctured his manner and revived the anxiety of Madame La Motte , who was resolved to acquaint her son with this subject of distress , and solicit his assistance to penetrate its source . 
Her jealousy of Adeline , however , she could not communicate , though it again tormented her , and taught her to misconstrue with wonderful ingenuity every look and word of La Motte , and often to mistake the artless expressions of Adeline 's gratitude and regard for those of warmer tenderness . 
Adeline had formerly accustomed herself to long walks in the forest , and the design Madame had formed of watching her steps , had been frustrated by the late circumstances , and was now entirely overcome by her sense of its difficulty and danger . 
To employ Peter in the affair , would be to acquaint him with her fears , and to follow her herself , would most probably betray her scheme , by making Adeline aware of her jealousy . 
Being thus restrained by pride and delicacy , she was obliged to endure the pangs of uncertainty concerning the greatest part of her suspicions . 
To Louis , however , she related the mysterious change in his father 's temper . 
He listened to her account with very earnest attention , and the surprize and concern impressed upon his countenance spoke how much his heart was interested . 
He now inquired concerning Adeline , and listened to her little history , of which his mother gave a brief relation , with great apparent interest . 
She perceived that the beauty of Adeline had already fascinated his imagination , and she feared that her amiable manners would soon impress his heart . 
Had her first fondness for Adeline continued , she would still have looked with displeasure upon their attachment , as an obstacle to the promotion and the fortune she hoped to see one day enjoyed by her son . 
On these she rested all her future hopes of prosperity , and regarded the matrimonial alliance which he might form as the only means of extricating his family from their present difficulties . 
She , therefore , touched lightly upon Adeline 's merit , joined coolly with Louis in compassionating her misfortunes , and with her censure of the father 's conduct , mixed an implied suspicion of that of Adeline 's . 
The means she employed to repress the passions of her son , had a contrary effect . 
The indifference , which she repressed towards Adeline , increased his pity for her destitute condition , and the tenderness , with which she affected to judge the father , heightened his honest indignation at his character . 
On entering what was now used as a parlour , he was much surprised to find him quietly seated there with Madame La Motte and Adeline , and conversing as if he had been returned some time . 
Meanwhile , a perception of the growing partiality of Louis co-operated with the canker of suspicion , to destroy in Madame La Motte that affection which pity and esteem had formerly excited for Adeline . 
Her unkindness was now too obvious to escape the notice of her to whom it was directed , and , being noticed , it occasioned an anguish which Adeline found it very difficult to endure . 
With the warmth and candour of youth , she sought an explanation of this change of behaviour , and an opportunity of exculpating herself from any intention of provoking it . 
But this Madame La Motte artfully evaded , while at the same time she threw out hints , that involved Adeline in deeper perplexity , and served to make her present affliction more intolerable . 
`` I have lost that affection , '' she would say , `` which was my all . 
Thus distressed , she would frequently leave the parlour , and , retiring to her chamber , would yield to a despondency , which she had never known till now . 
One morning , being unable to sleep , she arose at a very early hour . 
The beauty of the hour invited her to walk , and she went forth into the forest to taste the sweets of morning . 
The carols of new-waked birds saluted her as she passed , and the fresh gale came scented with the breath of flowers , whose tints glowed more vivid through the dew drops that hung on then leaves . 
She wandered on without noticing the distance , and , following the windings of the river , came to a dewy glade , whose woods , sweeping down to the very edge of the water , formed a scene so sweetly romantic , that she seated herself at the foot of a tree , to contemplate its beauty . 
These images insensibly soothed her sorrow , and inspired her with that soft and pleasing melancholy , so dear to the feeling mind . 
For some time she sat lost in a reverie , while the flowers that grew on the banks beside her seemed to smile in new life , and drew from her a comparison with her own condition . 
She mused and sighed , and then , in a voice , whose charming melody was modulated by the tenderness of her heart , she sung the following words : A distant echo lengthened out her tones , and she sat listening to the soft response , till repeating the last stanza of the Sonnet , she was answered by a voice almost as tender , and less distant . 
She looked round in surprise , and saw a young man in a hunter 's dress , leaning against a tree , and gazing on her with that deep attention , which marks an enraptured mind . 
A thousand apprehensions shot athwart her busy thought ; and she now first remembered her distance from the abbey . 
She rose in haste to be gone , when the stranger respectfully advanced ; but , observing her timid looks and retiring steps , he paused . 
She pursued her way towards the abbey ; and , though many reasons made her anxious to know whether she was followed , delicacy forbade her to look back . 
When she reached the abbey , finding the family was not yet assembled to breakfast , she retired to her chamber , where her whole thoughts were employed in conjectures concerning the stranger ; believing that she was interested on this point , no farther than as it concerned the safety of La Motte , she indulged , without scruple , the remembrance of that dignified air and manner which so much distinguished the youth she had seen . 
After revolving the circumstance more deeply , she believed it impossible that a person of his appearance should be engaged in a stratagem to betray a fellow creature ; and though she was destitute of a single circumstance that might assist her surmises of who he was , or what was his business in an unfrequented forest , she rejected , unconsciously , every suspicion injurious to his character . 
Upon farther deliberation , therefore , she resolved not to mention this little circumstance to La Motte ; well knowing , that though his danger might be imaginary , his apprehensions would be real , and would renew all the sufferings and perplexity , from which he was but just released . 
She resolved , however , to refrain , for some time , walking in the forest . 
When she came down to breakfast , she observed Madame La Motte to be more than usually reserved . 
La Motte entered the room soon after her , and made some trifling observations on the weather ; and , having endeavoured to support an effort at cheerfulness , sunk into his usual melancholy . 
Adeline watched the countenance of Madame with anxiety ; and when there appeared in it a gleam of kindness , it was as sunshine to her soul : but she very seldom suffered Adeline thus to flatter herself . 
Her conversation was restrained , and often pointed at something more than could be understood . 
The entrance of Louis was a very seasonable relief to Adeline , who almost feared to trust her voice with a sentence , lest its trembling accents should betray her uneasiness . 
`` This charming morning drew you early from your chamber , '' said Louis , addressing Adeline . 
`` I was alone , Madam , '' replied Adeline . 
returned Adeline , a tear , spite of her efforts , starting to her eye , `` there are now few subjects of pleasure left for them . '' 
Madame La Motte 's conscience acknowledged the rebuke and she blushed . 
`` Well , '' resumed she , after a short pause , `` that is not your situation , Adeline ; '' looking earnestly at La Motte . 
Adeline , whose innocence protected her from suspicion , did not regard this circumstance ; but , smiling through her tears , said , she rejoiced to hear her say so . 
During this conversation , La Motte had remained absorbed in his own thoughts ; and Louis , unable to guess at what it pointed , looked alternately at his mother and Adeline for an explanation . 
The latter he regarded with an expression so full of tender compassion , that it revealed at once to Madame La Motte the sentiments of his soul ; and she immediately replied to the last words of Adeline with a very serious air ; `` A friend is only estimable when our conduct deserves one ; the friendship that survives the merit of its object , is a disgrace , instead of an honour , to both parties . '' 
The manner and emphasis with which she delivered these words , again alarmed Adeline , who mildly said , `` she hoped she should never deserve such censure . '' 
Madame was silent ; but Adeline was so much shocked by what had already passed , that tears sprung from her eyes , and she hid her face with her handkerchief . 
`` Adeline may give you her own account , '' said Madam La Motte . 
`` I have not deserved this , '' said Adeline , rising , `` but since my presence is displeasing , I will retire . '' 
She moved toward the door , when Louis , who was pacing the room in apparent agitation , gently took her hand , saying , `` Here is some unhappy mistake , '' and would have led her to the seat ; but her spirits were too much depressed to endure longer restraint ; and , withdrawing her hand , `` Suffer me to go ; '' said she , `` if there is any mistake , I am unable to explain it . '' 
Saying this , she quitted the room . 
Louis followed her with his eyes to the door ; when , turning to his mother , `` Surely , Madam , '' said he , `` you are to blame : my life on it , she deserves your warmest tenderness . '' 
`` You are very eloquent in her cause , Sir , '' said Madame , `` may I presume to ask what has interested you thus in her favour ? '' 
`` Her own amiable manners , '' rejoined Louis , `` which no one can observe without esteeming them . '' 
`` You have , no doubt , good reasons for this assertion , and I perceive , by your admiration of this artless innocent , she has succeeded in her design of entrapping your heart . '' 
`` Without designing it , she has won my admiration , which would not have been the case , had she been capable of the conduct you mention . '' 
`` Adeline has omitted some household duty I suppose , and an offence so heinous deserves severe punishment , no doubt ; but let me be no more disturbed with your petty quarrels ; if you must be tyrannical , Madam , indulge your humour in private . '' 
She had heard of Adeline 's walk ; and La Motte having gone forth into the forest at an early hour , her imagination , heated by the broodings of jealousy suggested that they had appointed a meeting . 
This was confirmed to her by the entrance of Adeline , quickly followed by La Motte ; and her perceptions thus jaundiced by passion , neither the presence of her son , nor her usual attention to good manners , had been able to restrain her emotions . 
The behaviour of Adeline , in the late scene , she considered as a refined piece of art ; and the indifference of La Motte asaffected . 
And so ingenious was she `` to twist the true cause the `` wrong way . '' 
Adeline had retired to her chamber to weep . 
When her first agitations were subsided , she took an ample view of her conduct ; and perceiving nothing of which she could accuse herself , she became more satisfied ; deriving her best comfort from the integrity of her intentions . 
Adeline passed the greatest part of the day alone in her chamber , where , having examined her conduct , she endeavoured to fortify her heart against the unmerited displeasure of Madame La Motte . 
She loved her , and had relied on her friendship , which , notwithstanding the conduct of Madame , still appeared valuable to her . 
It was true , she had not deserved to lose it , but Madame was so averse to explanation , that there was little probability of recovering it , however ill-founded might be the cause of her dislike . 
At length , she reasoned , or rather , perhaps , persuaded herself into tolerable composure ; for to resign a real good with contentment , is less an effort of reason than of temper . 
For many hours she busied herself upon a piece of work , which she had undertaken for Madame La Motte ; and this she did , without the least intention of conciliating her favour , but because she felt there was something in thus repaying unkindness , which was suitable to her own temper , her sentiments , and her pride . 
Of this species was that of Adeline . 
In this employment and in reading Adeline passed as much of the day as possible . 
From books , indeed , she had constantly derived her chief information and amusement : those belonging to La Motte were few , but well chosen ; and Adeline could find pleasure in reading them more than once . 
When her mind was discomposed by the behaviour of Madame La Motte , or by a retrospection of her early misfortunes , a book was the opiate that lulled it to repose . 
La Motte had several of the best English poets , a language which Adeline had learned in the convent ; their beauties , therefore , she was capable of tasting , and they often inspired her with enthusiastic delight . 
At the decline of day , she quitted her chamber to enjoy the sweet evening hour , but strayed no farther than an avenue near the abbey , which fronted the west . 
She read a little , but , finding it impossible any longer to abstract her attention from the scene around , she closed the book , and yielded to the sweet complacent melancholy which the hour inspired . 
As she mused , she recollected and repeated the following stanzas : On her return to the abbey she was joined by Louis , who , after some conversation , said , `` I am much grieved by the scene to which I was witness this morning , and have longed for an opportunity of telling you so . 
Adeline thanked him for this friendly offer , which she felt more sensibly than she chose to express . 
`` I am unconscious , '' said she , `` of any offence that may have deserved Madame La Motte 's displeasure , and am , therefore , totally unable to account for it . 
`` By no means , '' replied Adeline , Madame La Motte 's displeasure has given me inexpressible concern ; but to compel her to an explanation , would only increase this displeasure , instead of removing it . 
He spoke this with an accent so tender , that Adeline , for the first time , perceived the sentiments of his heart . 
A mind more fraught with vanity than her 's would have taught her long ago to regard the attentions of Louis , as the result of something more than well-bred gallantry . 
She did not appear to notice his last words , but remained silent , and involuntarily quickened her pace . 
Near a month elapsed without any remarkable occurrence : the melancholy of La Motte suffered little abatement ; and the behaviour of Madame to Adeline , though somewhat softened , was still far from kind . 
Louis , by numberless little attentions , testified his growing affection for Adeline , who continued to treat them as passing civilities . 
Once , in the pauses of the wind , he thought he heard distinct voices ; but he was not long left to conjecture , for the renewed knocking at the gate again appalled him ; and regardless of the terrors of Madame La Motte and Adeline , he ran to try his last chance of concealment , by means of the trap-door . 
Adeline had fainted , and Madame La Motte was calling loudly for assistance , when Peter entered with lights , and discovered the hall filled with men , and his young mistress senseless upon the floor . 
A chevalier now advanced , and soliciting pardon of Madame for the rudeness of his conduct , was attempting an apology , when perceiving Adeline , he hastened to raise her from the ground , but Louis , who now returned , caught her in his arms , and desired the stranger not to interfere . 
His softened aspect and insinuating manners , while , regardless of himself , he seemed attentive only to the condition of Adeline , gradually dissipated the apprehensions of Madame La Motte , and subdued the sudden resentment of Louis . 
Upon Adeline , who was yet insensible , he gazed with an eager admiration , which seemed to absorb all the faculties of his mind . 
She was , indeed , an object not to be contemplated with indifference . 
Her beauty , touched with the languid delicacy of illness , gained from sentiment what it lost in bloom . 
The negligence of her dress , loosened for the purpose of freer respiration , discovered those glowing charms , which her auburn tresses , that fell in profusion over her bosom , shaded , but could not conceal . 
There now entered another stranger , a young Chevalier , who , having spoken hastily to the elder , joined the general groupe that surrounded Adeline . 
What rendered it at present more interesting , was the compassion he seemed to feel for Adeline , who now revived and saw him , the first object that met her eyes , bending over her in silent anxiety . 
On perceiving him , a blush of quick surprize passed over her cheek , for she knew him to be the stranger she had seen in the forest . 
Her countenance instantly changed to the paleness of terror , when she observed the room crowded with people . 
Louis now supported her into another apartment , where the two Chevaliers , who followed her , again apologized for the alarm they had occasioned . 
She started : `` Be not alarmed , Madam , you are safe and welcome . 
Madame La Motte expressed her gratitude for this condescension , and Louis declared his sense of the politeness of the Marquis de Montalt , for that was the name of the noble stranger . 
The noble deportment of the strangers , the splendour of their apparel , and , above all , this speech dissipated every remaining doubt of Madame 's , and she was giving orders for refreshments to be set before them , when La Motte , who had listened , and was now convinced he had nothing to fear , entered the apartment . 
The Marquis looked back and stopped , but still hesitating whether to proceed ; the supplications of Adeline , who was now returned , added to those of La Motte , determined him , and he sat down . 
They now moved towards the door , and she retreated with precipitation to the apartment where she had left Adeline , with Louis and the young Chevalier . 
Meanwhile , the Marquis , seating himself by Adeline , directed to her his whole attention , except when sudden fits of absence came over is mind and suspended him in silence : at these times the young Chevalier addressed Adeline , who , with diffidence and some agitation , shrunk from the observance of both . 
A look from her husband made her tremble for the consequence . 
Her offer was , however , politely declined , the Marquis being evidently as impatient to be gone , as his tenant appeared distressed by his presence . 
This belief , which seemed to prove how unjustly she had suspected Adeline , brought with it a pang of self-accusation . 
Adeline seemed to feel her full share of uneasiness . 
She had observed the behaviour of La Motte the preceding night with much surprize , and the happy confidence she had hitherto reposed in him , was shaken . 
She feared also , lest the exigency of his circumstances should precipitate him again into the world , and that he would be either unable or unwilling to afford her a shelter beneath his roof . 
In these intervals , Louis attempted by whispers to obtain some information from his father , but La Motte always returned to the table , where the presence of Adeline prevented farther discourse . 
Adeline retired into their usual working room with Madame La Motte , who affected an air of cheerfulness , and even of kindness . 
Feeling the necessity of offering some reason for the striking agitation of La Motte , and of preventing the surprize , which the unexpected appearance of the Marquis would occasion Adeline , if she was left to connect it with his behaviour of the preceding night , she mentioned that the Marquis and La Motte had long been known to each other , and that this unexpected meeting , after an absence of many years , and under circumstances so altered and humiliating , on the part of the latter , had occasioned him much painful emotion . 
This account did not bring conviction to the mind of Adeline , for it seemed inadequate to the degree of emotion , the Marquis and La Motte had mutually betrayed . 
Her surprize was excited , and her curiosity awakened by the words , which were meant to delude them both . 
But she forbore to express her thoughts . 
Madame proceeding with her plan , said , `` The Marquis was now expected , and she hoped whatever differences remained , would be perfectly adjusted . '' 
Adeline blushed , and endeavouring to reply , her lips faltered . 
Conscious of this agitation , and of the observance of Madame La Motte , her confusion increased , and her endeavours to suppress served only to heighten it . 
Still she tried to renew the discourse , and still she found it impossible to collect her thoughts . 
Shocked lest Madame should apprehend the sentiment , which had till this moment been concealed almost from herself , her colour fled , she fixed her eyes on the ground , and , for some time , found it difficult to respire . 
Madame La Motte inquired if she was ill , when Adeline , glad of the excuse , withdrew to the indulgence of her own thoughts , which were now wholly engrossed by the expectation of seeing again the young Chevalier , who had accompanied the Marquis . 
As she looked from her room , she saw the Marquis on horseback , with several attendants , advancing at a distance , and she hastened to apprize Madame La Motte of his approach . 
Madame understood it was Adeline he meant , and having answered his inquiry , and slightly said that she was not related to them , Adeline , upon some indication of the Marquis 's wish , was sent for . 
She entered the room with a modest blush and a timid air , which seemed to engage all his attention . 
His compliments she received with a sweet grace , but , when the younger Chevalier approached , the warmth of his manner rendered her 's involuntarily more reserved , and she scarcely dared to raise her eyes from the ground , lest they should encounter his . 
In the mean time , the young stranger , whom the Marquis addressed by the name of Theodore , remained at the abbey with Madame La Motte and Adeline . 
The former , with all her address , could scarcely conceal her agitation during this interval . 
She moved involuntarily to the door , whenever she heard a footstep , and several times she went to the hall door , in order to look into the forest , but as often returned , checked by disappointment . 
Theodore seemed to address as much of his attention to Adeline , as politeness would allow him to withdraw from Madame La Motte . 
His manners so gentle , yet dignified , insensibly subdued her timidity , and banished her reserve . 
Her conversation no longer suffered a painful constraint , but gradually disclosed the beauties of her mind , and seemed to produce a mutual confidence . 
A similarity of sentiment soon appeared , and Theodore , by the impatient pleasure which animated his countenance , seemed frequently to anticipate the thought of Adeline . 
To them the absence of the Marquis was short , though long to Madame La Motte , whose countenance brightened , when she heard the trampling of horses at the gate . 
Theodore took leave of Adeline , who , as well as La Motte and Madame , attended them to the gates , with an expression of tender regret , and , often as he went , looked back upon the abbey , till the intervening branches intirely excluded it from his view . 
The transient glow of pleasure diffused over the cheek of Adeline disappeared with the young stranger , and she sighed as she turned into the hall . 
The image of Thedoore pursued her to her chamber ; she recollected with exactness every particular of his late conversation -- his sentiments so congenial with her own -- his manners so engaging -- his countenance so animated -- so ingenuous and so noble , in which manly dignity was blended with the sweetness of benevolence -- these , and every other grace , she recollected , and a soft melancholy stole upon her heart . 
`` I shall see him no more , '' said she . 
A sigh , that followed , told her more of her heart than she wished to know . 
She blushed , and sighed again , and then suddenly recollecting herself , she endeavoured to divert her thoughts to a different subject . 
La Motte 's connection with the Marquis for some time engaged her attention , but , unable to develope the mystery that attended it , she sought a refuge from her own reflections in the more pleasing ones to be derived from books . 
The arrival of the Marquis had dissipated the jealous fears of Madame La Motte , and she awoke to a sense of her cruelty towards Adeline . 
Adeline was at first surprized , but she felt too much pleasure at the change to be scrupulous in inquiring its cause . 
But , notwithstanding the satisfaction which Adeline received from the revival of Madame La Motte 's kindness , her thoughts frequently recurred to the peculiar and forlorn circumstances of her condition . 
She could not help feeling less confidence than she had formerly done in the friendship of Madame La Motte , whose character now appeared less amiable than her imagination had represented it , and seemed strongly tinctured with caprice . 
Her thoughts often dwelt upon the strange introduction of the Marquis at the abbey , and on the mutual emotions and apparent dislike of La Motte and himself ; and , under these circumstances , it equally excited her surprize that La Motte should chuse , and that the Marquis should permit him , to remain in his territory . 
Her mind returned the oftener , perhaps , to this subject , because it was connected with Theodore ; but it returned unconscious of the idea which attracted it . 
She attributed the interest she felt in the affair to her anxiety for the welfare of La Motte , and for her own future destination , which was now so deeply involved in his . 
Sometimes , indeed , she caught herself busy in conjecture as to the degree of relationship in which Theodore stood to the Marquis , but she immediately checked her thoughts , and severely blamed herself for having suffered them to stray to an object , which she perceived was too dangerous to her peace . 
A Few days after the occurrence related in the preceding chapter , as Adeline was alone in her chamber , she was roused from a reverie by a trampling of horses near the gate , and , on looking from the casement , she saw the Marquis de Montalt enter the abbey . 
This circumstance surprized her , and an emotion , whose cause she did not trouble herself to inquire for , made her instantly retreat from the window . 
The same cause , however , led her thither again as hastily , but the object of her search did not appear , and she was in no haste to retire . 
As she stood musing and disappointed , the Marquis came out with La Motte , and , immediately looking up , saw Adeline and bowed . 
She returned his compliment respectfully , and withdrew from the window , vexed at having been seen there . 
Adeline observed him with particular attention and concern ; she perceived that he was always more melancholy after an interview with the Marquis , and was now surprized to hear that the latter had appointed to dine the next day at the abbey . 
At this instant , Adeline recollected the anecdotes she had formerly heard concerning the abbey , and they threw a shadow over the brightness of that excellence , which La Motte now celebrated . 
Adeline , however , ventured to inquire , whether it was the present Marquis of whom those injurious reports had been raised ? 
La Motte answered her with a smile of ridicule ; `` Stories of ghosts and hobgoblins have always been admired and cherished by the vulgar , '' said he . 
`` You mistake me , Sir , '' said she , `` it was not concerning supernatural agency that I would inquire : I alluded to a different part of the report , which hinted , that some person had been confined here , by order of the Marquis , who was said to have died unfairly . 
Your good sense , Adeline , I think , will teach you the merit of disbelief . '' 
Adeline blushed and was silent ; but La Motte 's defence of the Marquis appeared much warmer and more diffuse than was consistent with his own disposition , or required by the occasion . 
His former conversation with Louis occurred to her , and she was the more surprised at what passed at present . 
She looked forward to the morrow with a mixture of pain and pleasure ; the expectation of seeing again the young Chevalier occupying her thoughts , and agitating them with a various emotion : now she feared his presence , and now she doubted whether he would come . 
At length she observed this , and blushed to find how much he engaged her attention . 
The morrow arrived -- the Marquis came -- but he came alone ; and the sunshine of Adeline 's mind was clouded , though she was able to wear her usual air of cheerfulness . 
Adeline listened , till the cheerfulness , which she had at first only assumed , became real . 
The address of the Marquis was so insinuating and affable , that her reserve insensibly gave way before it , and her natural vivacity resumed its long lost empire . 
`` I shall sometimes visit you , '' continued he , `` and I lament that I can not at present invite Madame La Motte , and her fair friend to my chateau , but it is undergoing some repairs , which make it but an uncomfortable residence . '' 
`` And seems to have an excellent heart , '' she resumed . 
Adeline 's spirits , no longer supported by the animated conversation of the Marquis , sunk into languor , and , when he departed , she walked pensively into the forest . 
She followed a little romantic path that wound along the margin of the stream , and was overhung with deep shades . 
The tranquillity of the scene , which autumn now touched with her sweetest tints , softened her mind to a tender kind of melancholy , and she suffered a tear , which , she knew not wherefore , had stolen into her eye , to tremble there unchecked . 
She came to a little lonely recess , formed by high trees ; the wind sighed mournfully among the branches , and as it waved their lofty heads scattered their leaves to the ground . 
She seated herself on a bank beneath , and indulged the melancholy reflections that pressed on her mind . 
said she ; `` I should , perhaps , by constant contemplation , be enabled to meet them with fortitude . 
She was interrupted by a rustling among the fallen leaves ; she turned her head , and perceiving the Marquis 's young friend , arose to depart . 
The confusion of Adeline 's thoughts could scarcely permit her to reply ; she trembled and gently withdrew her hand , which he had taken , while he spoke . 
Adeline , raising her eyes , saw him gazing upon her with intense and eager anxiety , and her looks were again fixed upon the ground . 
`` We are not at all related , '' said Adeline ; `` but the service he has done me I can never repay , and I hope my gratitude will teach me never to forget it . '' 
Adeline started . 
Adeline stopped , and , looking earnestly at him , begged he would explain himself . 
She suspected that some mischief threatened La Motte ; and Theodore continuing silent , she repeated her request . 
`` If La Motte is concerned in this danger , '' said she , `` let me entreat you to acquaint him with it immediately . 
`` Excellent Adeline ! '' 
Adeline felt confused at being thus seen with the Chevalier , and was hastening to join La Motte , but Theodore detained her , and entreated a moment 's attention . 
Adeline shuddered at the idea of making an appointment ; she hesitated , and at length entreated Theodore not to delay till to-morrow an explanation , which appeared to be so important , but to follow La Motte and inform him of his danger immediately . 
`` It is not with La Motte I would speak , '' replied Theodore ; `` I know of no danger that threatens him -- but he approaches , be quick , lovely Adeline , and promise to meet me . '' 
`` I do promise , '' said Adeline , with a faltering voice ; `` I will come to the spot where you found me this evening , an hour earlier to-morrow . '' 
Saying this , she withdrew her trembling hand , which Theodore had pressed to his lips in token of acknowledgement , and he immediately disappeared . 
La Motte now approached Adeline , who , fearing that he had seen Theodore , was in some confusion . 
She rejoiced to find his mistake , and suffered him to remain in it . 
They walked pensively towards the abbey , where Adeline , too much occupied by her own thoughts to bear company , retired to her chamber . 
She ruminated upon the words of Theodore , and , the more she considered them , the more she was perplexed . 
Sometimes she blamed herself for having made an appointment , doubting whether he had not solicited it for the purpose of pleading a passion ; and now delicacy checked this thought , and made her vexed that she had presumed upon having inspired one . 
She recollected the serious earnestness of his voice and manner , when he entreated her to meet him ; and as they convinced her of the importance of the subject , she shuddered at a danger , which she could not comprehend , looking forward to the morrow with anxious impatience . 
Sometimes too a remembrance of the tender interest he had expressed for her welfare , and of his correspondent look and air , would steal across her memory , awakening a pleasing emotion and a latent hope that she was not indifferent to him . 
From reflections like these she was roused by a summons to supper : the repast was a melancholy one , it being the last evening of Louis 's stay at the abbey . 
Adeline , who esteemed him , regretted his departure , while his eyes were often bent on her with a look , which seemed to express that he was about to leave the object of his affection . 
She endeavoured by her cheerfulness to re-animate the whole party , and especially Madame La Motte , who frequently shed tears . 
`` We shall soon meet again , '' said Adeline , `` I trust , in happier circumstances . '' 
The countenance of Louis brightened at her words , `` Do you wish it ? '' 
`` Most certainly I do , '' she replied . 
Adeline , willing to change the discourse , asked , to what part of France he was going . 
The approaching departure of her son occupied the thoughts of Madame La Motte , and she appeared at breakfast with eyes swoln with weeping . 
When breakfast was over , Adeline retired for a while , that she might not interrupt , by her presence , their last conversation . 
As she walked on the lawn before the abbey she returned in thought to the occurrence of yesterday evening , and her impatience for the appointed interview increased . 
She was soon joined by Louis . 
He then expressed his concern at leaving her , and though he had hitherto armed himself with resolution to forbear a direct avowal of an attachment , which must be fruitless , his heart now yielded to the force of passion , and he told what Adeline every moment feared to hear . 
`` This declaration , '' said Adeline , endeavouring to overcome the agitation it excited , `` gives me inexpressible concern . '' 
Say that you do not hate me -- Say '' -- `` That I do most readily say , '' replied Adeline , in a tremulous voice ; `` if it will give you pleasure to be assured of my esteem and friendship -- receive this assurance : -- as the son of my best benefactors , you are entitled to '' -- `` Name not benefits , '' said Louis , `` your merits outrun them all : and suffer me to hope for a sentiment less cool than that of friendship , as well as to believe that I do not owe your approbation of me to the actions of others . 
I have long borne my passion in silence , because I foresaw the difficulties that would attend it , nay , I have even dared to endeavour to overcome it : I have dared to believe it possible , forgive the supposition , that I could forget you -- and '' -- `` You distress me , '' interrupted Adeline ; `` this is a conversation which I ought not to hear . 
While he spoke , Adeline 's favourite fawn came bounding towards her . 
When he recovered his voice , he said , `` Adeline ! 
`` I shall not require such a monitor to remind me of you , '' said Adeline with a smile ; `` your excellent parents and your own merits have sufficient claim upon my remembrance . 
Adeline , farewell ! 
`` Farewell , '' said Adeline , who was affected by his distress -- `` farewell ! 
-- He sighed deeply , and pressed her hand ; when La Motte , winding round another projection of the ruin , again appeared : Adeline left them together , and withdrew to her chamber , oppressed by the scene . 
Louis 's passion and her esteem were too sincere not to inspire her with a strong degree of pity for his unhappy attachment . 
She remained in her chamber till he had quitted the abbey , unwilling to subject him or herself to the pain of a formal parting . 
As evening and the hour of appointment drew nigh , Adeline 's impatience increased ; yet , when the time arrived , her resolution failed , and she faltered from her purpose . 
There was something of indelicacy and dissimulation in an appointed interview , on her part , that shocked her . 
She recollected the tenderness of Theodore 's manner , and several little circumstances which seemed to indicate that his heart was not unconcerned in the event . 
Again she was inclined to doubt , whether he had not obtained her consent to this meeting upon some groundless suspicion ; and she almost determined not to go : yet it was possible Theodore 's assertion might be sincere , and her danger real ; the chance of this made her delicate scruples appear ridiculous ; she wondered that she had for a moment suffered them to weigh against so serious an interest , and , blaming herself for the delay they had occasioned , hastened to the place of appointment . 
The little path , which led to this spot , was silent and solitary , and when she reached the recess , Theodore had not arrived . 
A transient pride made her unwilling he should find that she was more punctual to his appointment than himself ; and she turned from the recess into a track , which wound among the trees to the right . 
Having walked some way , without seeing any person , or hearing a footstep , she returned ; but he was not come , and she again left the place . 
A second time she came back , and Theodore was still absent . 
Recollecting the time at which she had quitted the abbey , she grew uneasy , and calculated that the hour appointed was now much exceeded . 
She was offended and perplexed ; but she seated herself on the turf , and was resolved to wait the event . 
After remaining here till the fall of twilight in fruitless expectation , her pride became more alarmed ; she feared that he had discovered something of the partiality he had inspired , and believing that he now treated her with purposed neglect , she quitted the place with disgust and self-accusation . 
When these emotions subsided , and reason resumed its influence , she blushed for what she termed this childish effervescence of self-love . 
She recollected , as if for the first time , these words of Theodore : `` I fear you are deceived , and that some danger is near you . '' 
Her judgement now acquitted the offender , and she saw only the friend . 
The import of these words , whose truth she no longer doubted , again alarmed her . 
Why did he trouble himself to come from the chateau , on purpose to hint her danger , if he did not wish to preserve her ? 
And if he wished to preserve her , what but necessity could have withheld him from the appointment ? 
These reflections decided her at once . 
She resolved to repair on the following day at the same hour to the recess , whither the interest , which she believed him to take in her fate , would no doubt conduct him in the hope of meeting her . 
That some evil hovered over her she could not disbelieve , but what it might be , she was unable to guess . 
Monsieur and Madame La Motte were her friends , and who else , removed , as she now thought herself , beyond the reach of her father , could injure her ? 
But why did Theodore say she was deceived ? 
She found it impossible to extricate herself from the labyrinth of conjecture , but endeavoured to command her anxiety till the following evening . 
In the mean time she engaged herself in efforts to amuse Madame La Motte , who required some relief , after the departure of her son . 
Thus oppressed by her own cares and interested by those of Madame La Motte , Adeline retired to rest . 
She soon lost her recollection , but it was only to fall into harrassed slumbers , such as but too often haunt the couch of the unhappy . 
At length her perturbed fancy suggested the following dream . 
She thought she was in a large old chamber belonging to the abbey , more ancient and desolate , though in part furnished , than any she had yet seen . 
While she stood musing and surveying the apartment , she heard a low voice call her , and , looking towards the place whence it came , she perceived by the dim light of a lamp a figure stretched on a bed that lay on the floor . 
The voice called again , and , approaching the bed , she distinctly saw the features of a man who appeared to be dying . 
A ghastly paleness overspread his countenance , yet there was an expression of mildness and dignity in it , which strongly interested her . 
While she looked on him , his features changed and seemed convulsed in the agonies of death . 
The spectacle shocked her , and she started back , but he suddenly stretched forth his hand , and seizing her 's , grasped it with violence : she struggled in terror to disengage herself , and again looking on his face , saw a man , who appeared to be about thirty , with the same features , but in full health , and of a most benign countenance . 
He smiled tenderly upon her and moved his lips , as if to speak , when the floor of the chamber suddenly opened and he sunk from her view . 
The effort she made to save herself from following awoke her . 
-- This dream had so strongly impressed her fancy , that it was some time before she could overcome the terror it occasioned , or even be perfectly convinced she was in her own apartment . 
At length , however , she composed herself to sleep ; again she fell into a dream . 
She thought she was bewildered in some winding passages of the abbey ; that it was almost dark , and that she wandered about a considerable time , without being able to find a door . 
Suddenly she heard a bell toll from above , and soon after a confusion of distant voices . 
She redoubled her efforts to extricate herself . 
Presently all was still , and , at length , wearied with the search , she sat down on a step that crossed the passage . 
She had not been long here , when she saw a light glimmer at a distance on the walls , but a turn in the passage , which was very long , prevented her seeing from what it proceeded . 
It continued to glimmer faintly for some time and then grew stronger , when she saw a man enter the passage , habited in a long black cloak , like those usually worn by attendants at funerals , and bearing a torch . 
He called to her to follow him , and led her through a long passage to the foot of a staircase . 
Here she feared to proceed , and was running back , when the man suddenly turned to pursue her , and with the terror , which this occasioned , she awoke . 
Shocked by these visions , and more so by their seeming connection , which now struck her , she endeavoured to continue awake , left their terrific images should again haunt her mind : after some time , however , her harrassed spirits again sunk into slumber , though not to repose . 
She now thought herself in a large old gallery , and saw at one end of it a chamber door standing a little open and a light within : she went towards it , and perceived the man she had before seen , standing at the door and beckoning her towards him . 
With the inconsistency so common in dreams she no longer endeavoured to avoid him , but advancing , followed him into a suite of very ancient apartments , hung with black , and lighted up as if for a funeral . 
Still he led her on , till she found herself in the same chamber she remembered to have seen in her former dream : a coffin , covered with a pall , stood at the farther end of the room ; some lights , and several persons surrounded it , who appeared to be in great distress . 
Suddenly , she thought these persons were all gone , and that she was left alone ; that she went up to the coffin , and while she gazed upon it , she heard a voice speak , as if from within , but saw nobody . 
The man she had before seen , soon after stood by the coffin , and , lifting the pall , she saw beneath it a dead person , whom she thought to be the dying Chevalier she had seen in her former dream : his features were sunk in death , but they were yet serene . 
While she looked at him , a stream of blood gushed from his side , and descending to the floor , the whole chamber was overflowed ; at the same time some words were uttered in the voice she heard before ; but the horror of the scene so entirely overcame her , that she started and awoke . 
When she had recovered her recollection , she raised herself in the bed , to be convinced it was a dream she had witnessed , and the agitation of her spirits was so great , that she feared to be alone , and almost determined to call Annette . 
When Adeline appeared at breakfast , her harrassed and languid countenance struck Madame La Motte , who inquired if she was ill ; Adeline , forcing a smile upon her features , said she had not rested well , for that she had had very disturbed dreams : she was about to describe them , but a strong and involuntary impulse prevented her . 
At the same time , La Motte ridiculed her concern so unmercifully , that she was almost ashamed to have mentioned it , and tried to overcome the remembrance of its cause . 
After breakfast , she endeavoured to employ her thoughts by conversing with Madame La Motte ; but they were really engaged by the incidents of the last two days ; the circumstance of her dreams , and her conjectures concerning the information to be communicated to her by Theodore . 
They had thus sat for some time , when a sound of voices arose from the great gate of the abbey ; and , on going to the casement , Adeline saw the Marquis and his attendants on the lawn below . 
The portal of the abbey concealed several people from her view , and among these it was possible might be Theodore , who had not yet appeared : she continued to look for him with great anxiety , till the Marquis entered the hall with La Motte , and some other persons , soon after which Madame went to receive him , and Adeline retired to her own apartment . 
A message from La Motte , however , soon called her to join the party , where she vainly hoped to find Theodore . 
The Marquis arose as she approached , and , having paid her some general compliments , the conversation took a very lively turn . 
Adeline , finding it impossible to counterfeit cheerfulness , while her heart was sinking with anxiety and disappointment , took little part in it : Theodore was not once named . 
She would have asked concerning him , had it been possible to inquire with propriety ; but she was obliged to content herself with hoping , first , that he would arrive before dinner , and then before the departure of the Marquis . 
The evening was now approaching , and she was condemned to remain in the presence of the Marquis , apparently listening to a conversation , which , in truth , she scarcely heard , while the opportunity was , perhaps , escaping that would decide her fate . 
She was suddenly relieved from this state of torture , and thrown into one , if possible , still more distressing . 
The shock of this intelligence overpowered the long-agitated spirits of Adeline ; the blood forsook her cheeks , and a sudden faintness came over her , from which she recovered only to a consciousness of having discovered her emotion , and the danger of relapsing into a second fit . 
She retired to her chamber , where , being once more alone , her oppressed heart found relief from tears , in which she freely indulged . 
Ideas crowded so fast upon her mind , that it was long ere she could arrange them so as to produce any thing like reasoning . 
She endeavoured to account for the abrupt departure of Theodore . 
`` Is it possible , '' said she , `` that he should take an interest in my welfare , and yet leave me exposed to the full force of a danger , which he himself foresaw ? 
She was awakened from thoughts like these by a peal of distant thunder , and now perceived that the gloominess of evening was deepened by the coming storm ; it rolled onward , and soon after the lightning began to flash along the chamber . 
Adeline was superior to the affectation of fear , and was not apt to be terrified ; but she now felt it unpleasant to be alone , and , hoping that the Marquis might have left the abbey , she went down to the sitting room ; but the threatening aspect of the Heavens had hitherto detained him , and now the evening tempest made him rejoice that he had not quitted a shelter . 
La Motte pressed his guest to take a bed at the abbey , and he , at length , consented ; a circumstance , which threw Madame La Motte into some perplexity , as to the accommodation to be afforded him ; after some time , she arranged the affair to her satisfaction ; resigning her own apartment to the Marquis , and that of Louis to two of his superior attendants ; Adeline , it was farther settled , should give up her room to Monsieur and Madame La Motte , and remove to an inner chamber , where a small bed , usually occupied by Annette , was placed for her . 
At supper , the Marquis was less gay than usual ; he frequently addressed Adeline , and his look and manner seemed to express the tender interest , which her indisposition , for she still appeared pale and languid , had excited . 
Adeline , as usual , made an effort to forget her anxiety , and appear happy ; but the veil of assumed cheerfulness was too thin to conceal the features of sorrow ; and her feeble smiles only added a peculiar softness to her air . 
The Marquis conversed with her on a variety of subjects , and displayed an elegant mind . 
The observations of Adeline , which , when called upon , she gave with reluctant modesty , in words at once simple and forceful , seemed to excite his admiration , which he sometimes betrayed by an inadvertent expression . 
Adeline retired early to her room , which adjoined on one side to Madame La Motte 's , and on the other to the closet formerly mentioned . 
It was spacious and lofty , and what little furniture it contained was falling to decay ; but , perhaps , the present tone of her spirits might contribute more than these circumstances to give that air of melancholy , which seemed to reign in it . 
She was unwilling to go to bed , left the dreams that had lately pursued her should return ; and determined to sit up till she found herself oppressed by sleep , when it was probable her rest would be profound . 
She placed the light on a small table , and , taking a book , continued to read for above an hour , till her mind refused any longer to abstract itself from its own cares , and she sat for some time leaning pensively on her arm . 
The wind was high , and as it whistled through the desolate apartment , and shook the feeble doors , she often started , and sometimes even thought she heard sighs between the pauses of the gust ; but she checked these illusions , which the hour of the night and her own melancholy imagination conspired to raise . 
As she sat musing , her eyes fixed on the opposite wall , she perceived the arras , with which the room was hung , wave backwards and forwards ; she continued to observe it for some minutes , and then rose to examine it farther . 
It was moved by the wind ; and she blushed at the momentary fear it had excited : but she observed that the tapestry was more strongly agitated in one particular place than elsewhere , and a noise that seemed something more than that of the wind issued thence . 
The old bedstead , which La Motte had found in this apartment , had been removed to accommodate Adeline , and it was behind the place where this had stood , that the wind seemed to rush with particular force : curiosity prompted her to examine still farther ; she felt about the tapestry , and perceiving the wall behind shake under her hand , she lifted the arras , and discovered a small door , whose loosened hinges admitted the wind , and occasioned the noise she had heard . 
The door was held only by a bolt , having undrawn which , and brought the light , she descended by a few steps into another chamber : she instantly remembered her dreams . 
The chamber was not much like that in which she had seen the dying Chevalier , and afterwards the bier ; but it gave her a confused remembrance of one through which she had passed . 
Holding up the light to examine it more fully , she was convinced by its structure that it was part of the ancient foundation . 
She observed a door on the opposite side of the apartment ; and after some moments of hesitation , gained courage , and determined to pursue the inquiry . 
`` A mystery seems to hang over these chambers , '' said she , `` which it is , perhaps , my lot to develope ; I will , at least , see to what that door leads . '' 
She stepped forward , and having unclosed it , proceeded with faltering steps along a suite of apartments , resembling the first in style and condition , and terminating in one exactly like that where her dream had represented the dying person ; the remembrance struck so forcibly upon her imagination , that she was in danger of fainting ; and looking round the room , almost expected to see the phantom of her dream . 
Unable to quit the place , she sat down on some old lumber to recover herself , while her spirits were nearly overcome by a superstitious dread , such as she had never felt before . 
She wondered to what part of the abbey these chambers belonged , and that they had so long escaped detection . 
When she was sufficiently composed to consider the direction of the rooms , and the situation of the abbey , there appeared not a doubt that they formed an interior part of the original building . 
As these reflections passed over her mind , a sudden gleam of moonlight fell upon some object without the casement . 
Being now sufficiently composed to wish to pursue the inquiry ; and believing this object might afford her some means of learning the situation of these rooms , she combated her remaining terrors , and , in order to distinguish it more clearly , removed the light to an outer chamber ; but before she could return , a heavy cloud was driven over the face of the moon , and all without was perfectly dark : she stood for some moments waiting a returning gleam , but the obscurity continued . 
As she went softly back for the light , her foot stumbled over something on the floor , and while she stooped to examine it , the moon again shone , so that she could distinguish , through the casement , the eastern towers of the abbey . 
This discovery confirmed her former conjectures concerning the interior situation of these apartments . 
The obscurity of the place prevented her discovering what it was that had impeded her steps , but having brought the light forward , she perceived on the floor an old dagger : with a trembling hand she took it up , and upon a closer view perceived , that it was spotted and stained with rust . 
Shocked and surprised , she looked round the room for some object that might confirm or destroy the dreadful suspicion which now rushed upon her mind ; but she saw only a great chair , with broken arms , that stood in one corner of the room , and a table in a condition equally shattered , except that in another part lay a confused heap of things , which appeared to be old lumber . 
She went up to it , and perceived a broken bedstead , with some decayed remnants of furniture , covered with dust and cobwebs , and which seemed , indeed , as if they had not been moved for many years . 
Desirous , however , of examining farther , she attempted to raise what appeared to have been part of the bedstead , but it slipped from her hand , and , rolling to the floor , brought with it some of the remaining lumber . 
Adeline started aside and saved herself , and when the noise it made had ceased , she heard a small rustling sound , and as she was about to leave the chamber , saw something falling gently among the lumber . 
Adeline took it up , and on opening it perceived an handwriting . 
She attempted to read it , but the part of the manuscript she looked at was so much obliterated , that she found this difficult , though what few words were legible impressed her with curiosity and terror , and induced her to return with it immediately to her chamber . 
Having reached her own room , she fastened the private door , and let the arras fall over it as before . 
The stillness of the hour , interrupted only at intervals by the hollow sighings of the blast , heightened the solemnity of Adeline 's feelings . 
She wished she was not alone , and before she proceeded to look into the manuscript , listened whether Madame La Motte was not in her chamber : not the least sound was heard , and she gently opened the door . 
The profound silence within almost convinced her that no person was there ; but willing to be farther satisfied , she brought the light and found the room empty . 
The lateness of the hour made her wonder that Madame La Motte was not in her chamber , and she proceeded to the top of the tower stairs , to hearken if any person was stirring . 
She heard the sound of voices from below , and , amongst the rest , that of La Motte speaking in his usual tone . 
Being now satisfied that all was well , she turned towards her room , when she heard the Marquis pronounce her name with very unusual emphasis . 
She paused . 
Adeline trembled so excessively , that she could scarcely support herself : she wished to return to her chamber ; yet she was too much interested in the words she had heard , not to be anxious to have them more fully explained . 
Adeline remembered the hints of Theodore , and determined , if possible , to be relieved from the terrible suspense she now suffered . 
She stole softly down a few steps , that she might catch the accents of the speakers , but they were so low , that she could only now and then distinguish a few words . 
Adeline shuddered at the mention of her father , a new terror seized her , and with increasing eagerness she endeavoured to distinguish their words , but for some time found this to be impossible . 
-- She heard La Motte rise , and , believing it was to leave the room , she hurried up the steps , and having reached her chamber , sunk almost lifeless in a chair . 
It was her father only of whom she thought . 
She doubted not that he had pursued and discovered her retreat , and , though this conduct appeared very inconsistent with his former behaviour in abandoning her to strangers , her fears suggested that it would terminate in some new cruelty . 
She did not hesitate to pronounce this the danger of which Theodore had warned her ; but it was impossible to surmise how he had gained his knowledge of it , or how he had become sufficiently acquainted with her story , except through La Motte , her apparent friend and protector , whom she was thus , though unwillingly , led to suspect of treachery . 
Why , indeed , should La Motte conceal from her only his knowledge of her father 's intention , unless he designed to deliver her into his hands ? 
Yet it was long ere she could bring herself to believe this conclusion possible . 
The words of Theodore , which told her he was fearful she was deceived , confirmed this most painful apprehension of La Motte , with another yet more distressing , that Madame La Motte was also united against her . 
This thought , for a moment , subdued terror and left her only grief ; she wept bitterly . 
cried she . 
Adeline determined to throw herself at the feet of La Motte , on the following morning , and implore his pity and protection . 
Her mind was now too much agitated , by her own interests , to permit her to examine the manuscripts , and she sat musing in her chair , till she heard the steps of Madame La Motte , when she retired to bed . 
La Motte soon after came up to his chamber , and Adeline , the mild , persecuted Adeline , who had now passed two days of torturing anxiety , and one night of terrific visions , endeavoured to compose her mind to sleep . 
In the present state of her spirits , she quickly caught alarm , and she had scarcely fallen into a slumber , when she was roused by a loud and uncommon noise . 
She listened , and thought the sound came from the apartments below , but in a few minutes there was a hasty knocking at the door of La Motte 's chamber . 
La Motte , who had just fallen asleep , was not easily to be roused , but the knocking increased with such violence , that Adeline , extremely terrified , arose and went to the door that opened from her chamber into his , with a design to call him . 
She was stopped by the voice of the Marquis , which she now clearly distinguished at the door . 
He called to La Motte to rise immediately , and Madame La Motte endeavoured at the same time to rouse her husband , who , at length , awoke in much alarm , and soon after , joining the Marquis , they went down stairs together . 
Adeline now dressed herself , as well as her trembling hands would permit , and went into the adjoining chamber , where she found Madame La Motte extremely surprized and terrified . 
Adeline , who had retired from the chamber , on the approach of La Motte , looked out from her window on hearing the trampling of horses . 
Unable to distinguish who the persons were , she was alarmed at observing such a party about the abbey at that hour , and , calling to inform La Motte of the circumstance , was made acquainted with what had passed . 
At length she retired to her bed , and her slumbers were this night undisturbed by dreams . 
When she arose in the morning , she observed La Motte walking alone in the avenue below , and she hastened to seize the opportunity which now offered of pleading her cause . 
She approached him with faltering steps , while the paleness and timidity of her countenance discovered the disorder of her mind . 
Her first words , without entering upon any explanation , implored , his compassion . 
La Motte stopped , and , looking earnestly in her face , inquired whether any part of his conduct towards her merited the suspicion which her request implied . 
Adeline for a moment blushed that she had doubted his integrity , but the words she had overheard returned to her memory . 
`` Your behaviour , Sir , '' said she , `` I acknowledge to have been kind and generous , beyond what I had a right to expect , but '' -- and she paused . 
She knew not how to mention what she blushed to believe . 
La Motte continued to gaze on her in silent expectation , and at length desired her to proceed and explain her meaning . 
She entreated that he would protect her from her father . 
`` Yes , Sir , '' replied Adeline ; `` I am not ignorant that he has discovered my retreat . 
La Motte stood fixed in thought , and Adeline continued her endeavours to interest his pity . 
The question confused Adeline , who blushed to acknowledge that she had overheard his discourse , and disdained to invent , or utter a falsity : at length she confessed the truth . 
The countenance of La Motte instantly changed to a savage fierceness , and , sharply rebuking her for a conduct , to which she had been rather tempted by chance , than prompted by design , he inquired what she had overheard , that could so much alarm her . 
She faithfully repeated the substance of the incoherent sentences that had met her ear ; while she spoke , he regarded her with a fixed attention . 
She now perceived , what the fervor of her fears had not permitted her to observe before , that the words , unconnectedly as she heard them , imported little , and that her imagination had filled up the void in the sentences , so as to suggest the evil apprehended . 
Notwithstanding this , her fears were little abated . 
Adeline , for some time , could speak only by her tears . 
At length , with a fortitude which despair had roused , she said , `` I resign myself to the will of Heaven ! '' 
La Motte gazed on her in silence , and a strong emotion appeared in his countenance . 
He forbore , however , to renew the discourse , and withdrew to the abbey , leaving Adeline in the avenue , absorbed in grief . 
A summons to breakfast hastened her to the parlour , where she passed the morning in conversation with Madame La Motte , to whom she told all her apprehensions , and expressed all her sorrow . 
Pity and superficial consolation was all that Madame La Motte could offer , though apparently much affected by Adeline 's discourse . 
Thus the hours passed heavily away , while the anxiety of Adeline continued to increase , and the moment of her fate seemed fast approaching . 
Dinner was scarcely over , when Adeline was surprized to see the Marquis arrive . 
The remembrance of the conversation she had overheard , at first gave Adeline some confusion , and withdrew her mind from a sense of the evils to be apprehended from her father . 
The Marquis , who was , as usual , attentive to Adeline , seemed affected by her apparent indisposition , and expressed much concern for that dejection of spirits , which , notwithstanding every effort , her manner betrayed . 
When Madame La Motte withdrew , Adeline would have followed her , but the Marquis entreated a few moment 's attention , and led her back to her seat . 
Adeline knew too well what would be the purport of the Marquis 's discourse , and his words soon increased the confusion which her fears had occasioned . 
While he was declaring the ardour of his passion in such terms , as but too often make vehemence pass for sincerity , Adeline , to whom this declaration , if honourable , was distressing , and if dishonourable , was shocking , interrupted him and thanked him for the offer of a distinction , which , with a modest , but determined air , she said she must refuse . 
She rose to withdraw . 
`` Stay , too lovely Adeline ! '' 
Adeline continued to move towards the door , when the Marquis threw himself at her feet , and , seizing her hand , impressed it with kisses . 
She struggled to disengage herself . 
`` Hear me , charming Adeline ! 
Do not drive me to despair by ill-judged rigour , or , because '' -- `` My Lord , '' interrupted Adeline , with an air of ineffable dignity , and still affecting to believe his proposal honourable , `` I am sensible of the generosity of your conduct , and also flattered by the distinction you offer me . 
She again attempted to go , but the Marquis prevented her , and , after some hesitation , again urged his suit , though in terms that would no longer allow her to misunderstand him . 
Tears swelled into her eyes , but she endeavoured to check them , and with a look , in which grief and indignation seemed to struggle for pre-eminence , she said , `` My Lord , this is unworthy of reply , let me pass . '' 
For a moment , he was awed by the dignity of her manner , and he threw himself at her feet to implore forgiveness . 
But she waved her hand in silence and hurried from the room . 
When she reached her chamber , she locked the door , and , sinking into a chair , yielded to the sorrow that pressed at her heart . 
And it was not the least of her sorrow , to suspect that La Motte was unworthy of her confidence ; for it was almost impossible that he could be ignorant of the real designs of the Marquis . 
Madame La Motte , she believed , was imposed upon by a specious pretence of honourable attachment ; and thus was she spared the pang which a doubt of her integrity would have added . 
She threw a trembling glance upon the prospect around her . 
On one side was her father , whose cruelty had already been too plainly manifested ; and on the other , the Marquis pursuing her with insult and vicious passion . 
She resolved to acquaint Madame La Motte with the purport of the late conversation , and , in the hope of her protection and sympathy , she wiped away her tears , and was leaving the room just as Madame La Motte entered it . 
While Adeline related what had passed , her friend wept , and appeared to suffer great agitation . 
She endeavoured to comfort her , and promised to use her influence in persuading La Motte to prohibit the addresses of the Marquis . 
said Adeline , `` how hard is the task you assign me ! 
Adeline sighed . 
`` I obey you , Madam , '' said she ; `` it is my duty to do so ; but I may be pardoned for saying -- it is with extreme reluctance . '' 
Madame La Motte promised to go immediately to her husband , and Adeline departed , though not convinced of her safety , yet somewhat more at ease . 
She soon after saw the Marquis depart , and , as there now appeared to be no obstacle to the return of Madame La Motte , she expected her with extreme impatience . 
After thus waiting near an hour in her chamber , she was at length summoned to the parlour , and there found Monsieur La Motte alone . 
He arose upon her entrance , and for some minutes paced the room in silence . 
He then seated himself , and addressed her : `` What you have mentioned to Madame La Motte , '' said he , `` would give me much concern , did I consider the behaviour of the Marquis in a light so serious as she does . 
I know that young ladies are apt to misconstrue the unmeaning gallantry of fashionable manners , and you , Adeline , can never be too cautious in distinguishing between a levity of this kind , and a more serious address . '' 
Adeline was surprized and offended that La Motte should think so lightly both of her understanding and disposition as his speech implied . 
`` Is it possible , Sir , '' said she , `` that you have been apprized of the Marquis 's conduct ? '' 
Adeline thought the term rudeness a harsh one , as La Motte applied it , but she forebore from any expression of displeasure . 
`` I could have wished , Sir , '' said she , `` for the privilege of retiring whenever the Marquis appeared ; but since you believe this conduct would affect your interest , I ought to submit . '' 
The word friend , as it stood connected with the Marquis , sounded dissonantly to Adeline 's ear ; she hesitated and looked at La Motte . 
`` As your friend , Sir , '' said she ; `` I will endeavour to '' -- treat him as mine , she would have said , but she found it impossible to finish the sentence . 
She entreated his protection from the power of her father . 
`` Quit this abbey , '' said Adeline , and seek an asylum in Switzerland or Germany ; you will then be freed from farther obligation to the Marquis and from the persecution you dread . 
My regard for you , Adeline , has exposed me to this ; had I resigned you to his will , I should have remained secure . '' 
Adeline was so much affected by this instance of La Motte 's kindness , which she could not doubt , that she was unable to express her sense of it . 
When she could speak , she uttered her gratitude in the most lively terms . 
replied Adeline , weeping at the idea of ingratitude . 
said Adeline with surprize . 
`` Name one that I shall refuse , '' said Adeline with energy . 
Adeline blushed and fixed her eyes on the ground . 
This unjust sarcasm brought tears to her eyes . 
`` Since your safety , Sir , depends upon my conduct , '' said she , resign me to my father . 
No , Adeline , though you are ready to sacrifice yourself to my safety . 
`` I will endeavour to obey you , Sir , '' said Adeline . 
Adeline passed the evening in melancholy thoughts , and retired , as soon as possible , to her chamber , eager to seek in sleep a refuge from sorrow . 
The ms. found by Adeline , the preceding night , had several times occurred to her recollection in the course of the day , but she had then been either too much interested by the events of the moment , or too apprehensive of interruption , to attempt a perusal of it . 
She now took it from the drawer in which it had been deposited , and , intending only to look cursorily over the few first pages , sat down with it by her bed side . 
She opened it with an eagerness of inquiry , which the discoloured and almost obliterated ink but slowly gratified . 
nerve my heart to '' -- Adeline 's light was now expiring in the socket , and the paleness of the ink , so feebly shone upon , baffled her efforts to discriminate the letters : it was impossible to procure a light from below , without discovering that she was yet up ; a circumstance , which would excite surprize and lead to explanations , such as she did not wish to enter upon . 
Thus compelled to suspend the inquiry , which so many attendant circumstances had rendered awfully interesting , she retired to her humble bed . 
What she had read of the MS. awakened a dreadful interest in the fate of the writer , and called up terrific images to her mind . 
-- said she , and she shuddered and closed her eyes . 
At length , she heard Madame La Motte enter her chamber , and the phantoms of fear beginning to dissipate , left her to repose . 
In the morning , she was awakened by Madame La Motte , and found , to her disappointment , that she had slept so much beyond her usual time , as to be unable to renew the perusal of the MS. -- La Motte appeared uncommonly gloomy , and Madame wore an air of melancholy , which Adeline attributed to the concern she felt for her . 
Breakfast was scarcely over , when the sound of horses feet announced the arrival of a stranger ; and Adeline , from the oriel recess of the hall , saw the Marquis alight . 
She retreated with precipitation , and , forgetting the request of La Motte , was hastening to her chamber ; but the Marquis was already in the hall , and seeing her leaving it , turned to La Motte with a look of inquiry . 
La Motte called her back , and by a frown too intelligent , reminded her of her promise . 
She summoned all her spirits to her aid , but advanced , notwithstanding , in visible emotion , while the Marquis addressed her as usual , the same easy gaiety playing upon his countenance and directing his manner . 
Adeline was surprized and shocked at this careless confidence , which , however , by awakening her pride , communicated to her an air of dignity that abashed him . 
At length arising , he begged Adeline would favour him with a few moments conversation . 
Monsieur and Madame La Motte were now leaving the room , when Adeline , turning to the Marquis , told him , `` she would not hear any conversation , except in the presence of her friends . '' 
But she said it in vain , for they were gone ; and La Motte , as he withdrew , expressed by his looks how much an attempt to follow would displease him . 
She sat for some time in silence , and trembling expectation . 
After this specimen of common place verbosity , which the Marquis seemed to consider as a prelude to triumph , he attempted to impress a kiss upon the hand of Adeline , who , withdrawing it hastily , said , `` You are already , my Lord , acquainted with my sentiments upon this subject , and it is almost unnecessary for me now to repeat , that I can not accept the honour you offer me . '' 
`` Explain yourself , lovely Adeline ! 
`` Most true , Sir , '' said Adeline , `` and you do well to remind me of this , since , after having heard your former proposal , I can listen for a moment to any other . '' 
She rose to quit the room . 
The Marquis , though with evident confusion , was going to reply ; but Adeline would not be detained , and retired to her chamber . 
Destitute as she was , her heart revolted from the proposal of the Marquis , and she determined never to accept it . 
To her dislike of his general disposition , and the aversion excited by his late offer , was added , indeed , the influence of a prior attachment , and of a remembrance , which she found it impossible to erase from her heart . 
The Marquis stayed to dine , and , in consideration of La Motte , Adeline appeared at table , where the former gazed upon her with such frequent and silent earnestness , that her distress became insupportable , and when the cloth was drawn , she instantly retired . 
Madame La Motte soon followed , and it was not till evening that she had an opportunity of returning to the MS. When Monsieur and Madame La Motte were in their chamber , and all was still , she drew forth the narrative , and , trimming her lamp , sat down to read as follows : `` The ruffians unbound me from my horse , and led me through the hall up the spiral staircase of the abbey : resistance was useless , but I looked around in the hope of seeing some person less obdurate than the men who brought me hither ; some one who might be sensible to pity , and capable , at least , of civil treatment . 
With much difficulty Adeline made out the following lines : `` Three days have now passed in solitude and silence : the horrors of death are ever before my eyes , let me endeavour to prepare for the dreadful change ! 
Adeline paused . 
Here the wretched writer appealed directly to her heart ; he spoke in the energy of truth , and , by a strong illusion of fancy , it seemed as if his past sufferings were at this moment present . 
She was for some time unable to proceed , and sat in musing sorrow . 
`` In these very apartments , '' said she , `` this poor sufferer was confined -- here he '' -- Adeline started , and thought she heard a sound ; but the stillness of night was undisturbed . 
-- `` In these very chambers , '' said she , `` these lines were written -- these lines , from which he then derived a comfort in believing they would hereafter be read by some pitying eye : this time is now come . 
Her imagination was now strongly impressed , and to her distempered senses the suggestions of a bewildered mind appeared with the force of reality . 
Again she started and listened , and thought she heard `` Here `` distinctly repeated by a whisper immediately behind her . 
Perhaps , these are the last lines I shall ever write '' Adeline paused , while her tears fell fast . 
she exclaimed , `` and was there no pitying soul to save thee ! 
While she sat musing , her fancy , which now wandered in the regions of terror , gradually subdued reason . 
There was a glass before her upon the table , and she feared to raise her looks towards it , lest some other face than her own should meet her eyes : other dreadful ideas , and strange images of fantastic thought now crossed her mind . 
A hollow sigh seemed to pass near her . 
cried she , and threw a fearful glance round the room ; `` this is surely something more than fancy . '' 
Her fears so far overcame her , that she was several times upon the point of calling up part of the family , but unwillingness to disturb them , and a dread of ridicule , withheld her . 
She was also afraid to move and almost to breathe . 
As she listened to the wind , that murmured at the casements of her lonely chamber , she again thought she heard a sigh . 
Her imagination refused any longer the controul of reason , and , turning her eyes , a figure , whose exact form she could not distinguish , appeared to pass along an obscure part of the chamber : a dreadful chillness came over her , and she sat fixed in her chair . 
At length a deep sigh somewhat relieved her oppressed spirits , and her senses seemed to return . 
All remaining quiet , after some time she began to question whether her fancy had not deceived her , and she so far conquered her terror as to desist from calling Madame La Motte : her mind was , however , so much disturbed , that she did not venture to trust herself that night again with the MS. ; but , having spent some time in prayer , and in endeavouring to compose her spirits , she retired to bed . 
When she awoke in the morning , the cheerful sun-beams played upon the casements , and dispelled the illusions of darkness : her mind , soothed and invigorated by sleep , rejected the mystic and turbulent promptings of imagination . 
She arose refreshed and thankful ; but , upon going down to breakfast , this transient gleam of peace fled upon the appearance of the Marquis , whose frequent visits at the abbey , after what had passed , not only displeased , but alarmed her . 
She saw that he was determined to persevere in addressing her , and the boldness and insensibility of this conduct , while it excited her indignation , increased her disgust . 
In pity to La Motte , she endeavoured to conceal these emotions , though she now thought that he required too much from her complaisance , and began seriously to consider how she might avoid the necessity of continuing it . 
The Marquis behaved to her with the most respectful attention ; but Adeline was silent and reserved , and seized the first opportunity of withdrawing . 
As she passed up the spiral staircase , Peter entered the hall below , and , seeing Adeline , he stopped and looked earnestly at her : she did not observe him , but he called her softly , and she then saw him make a signal as if he had something to communicate . 
She proceeded to her chamber , ruminating upon this signal , and the cautious manner in which Peter had given it . 
But her thoughts soon returned to their wonted subjects . 
Three days were now passed , and she heard no intelligence of her father ; she began to hope that he had relented from the violent measures hinted at by La Motte , and that he meant to pursue a milder plan : but when she considered his character , this appeared improbable , and she relapsed into her former fears . 
Her residence at the abbey was now become painful , from the perseverance of the Marquis , and the conduct which La Motte obliged her to adopt ; yet she could not think without dread of quitting it to return to her father . 
The image of Theodore often intruded upon her busy thoughts , and brought with it a pang , which his strange departure occasioned . 
She had a confused notion , that his fate was somehow connected with her own ; and her struggles to prevent the remembrance of him , served only to shew how much her heart was his . 
To divert her thoughts from these subjects , and gratify the curiosity so strongly excited on the preceding night , she now took up the MS. but was hindered from opening it by the entrance of Madame La Motte , who came to tell her the Marquis was gone . 
They passed their morning together in work and general conversation ; La Motte not appearing till dinner , when he said little , and Adeline less . 
She asked him , however , if he had heard from her father ? 
Adeline was shocked , yet she was able to reply with becoming firmness . 
I speak to you as a friend , Adeline , and desire you will endeavour to listen to me without prejudice . 
I know not which circumstance most excites my surprize , that a man of his rank and consequence should solicit a marriage with a person without fortune , or ostensible connections ; or that a person so circumstanced should even for a moment reject the advantages thus offered her . 
You weep , Adeline , let me hope that you are convinced of the absurdity of this conduct , and will no longer trifle with your good fortune . 
The anguish which this speech excited , suppressed her utterance , and she continued to weep . 
At length she said , Suffer me , Sir , to go back to my father ; I should , indeed , make an ill return for the kindness you mention , could I wish to stay , after what you now tell me ; and to accept the Marquis , I feel to be impossible . '' 
The remembrance of Theodore arose to her mind , and she wept aloud . 
`` Pardon me , '' said Adeline , `` a marriage with the Marquis would be splendid , but never happy . 
The conversation related in the last chapter was interrupted by the entrance of Peter , who , as he left the room , looked significantly at Adeline and almost beckoned . 
She was anxious to know what he meant , and soon after went into the hall , where she found him loitering . 
The moment he saw her , he made a sign of silence and beckoned her into the recess . 
said Adeline . 
-- Adeline begged him to explain what he meant . 
Adeline entreated he would be quick . 
`` For God 's sake , said Adeline , speak quickly , or we shall be interrupted . '' 
said Adeline . 
-- Adeline was much alarmed by Peter 's words , and hurried to the cloisters . 
`` Pray do speak to the purpose , '' said Adeline impatiently , `` what is this danger which you say threatens me ? 
`` Or rather you are resolved not to tell me , '' said Adeline ; `` for you have made no progress towards it . 
So saying , he hurried into the abbey , leaving Adeline in a state of alarm , curiosity , and vexation . 
She walked out into the forest , ruminating upon Peter 's words , and endeavouring to guess to what they alluded ; there Madame La Motte joined her , and they conversed on various topics till they reached the abbey . 
Adeline watched in vain through that day for an opportunity of speaking with Peter . 
While he waited at supper , she occasionally observed his countenance with great anxiety , hoping it might afford her some degree of intelligence on the subject of her fears . 
When she retired , Madame La Motte accompanied her to her chamber , and continued to converse with her for a considerable time , so that she had no means of obtaining an interview with Peter . 
-- Madame La Motte appeared to labour under some great affliction , and when Adeline , noticing this , entreated to know the cause of her dejection , tears started into her eyes , and she abruptly left the room . 
This behaviour of Madame La Motte concurred with Peter 's discourse , to alarm Adeline , who sat pensively upon her bed , given up to reflection , till she was roused by the sound of a clock which stood in the room below , and which now struck twelve . 
She was preparing for rest , when she recollected the MS. and was unable to conclude the night without reading it . 
The first words she could distinguish were the following : Again I return to this poor consolation -- again I have been permitted to see another day . 
-- Here the MS. was again illegible , and for several pages Adeline could only make out disjointed sentences . 
Adeline shuddered . 
She feared to read the coming sentence , yet curiosity prompted her to proceed . 
Still she paused : an unaccountable dread came over her . 
`` Some horrid deed has been done here , '' said she ; `` the reports of the peasants are true . 
The idea shrilled her with horror . 
She recollected the dagger which had impeded her steps in the secret chamber , and this circumstance served to confirm her most terrible conjectures . 
She wished to examine it , but it lay in one of these chambers , and she feared to go in quest of it . 
she exclaimed , `` could no friend rescue thee from destruction ! 
She stopped , and thought she heard a sigh , such as , on the preceding night , had passed along the chamber . 
Her blood was chilled and she sat motionless . 
The lonely situation of her room , remote from the rest of the family , -LRB- for she was now in her old apartment , from which Madame La Motte had removed -RRB- who were almost beyond call , struck so forcibly upon her imagination , that she with difficulty preserved herself from fainting . 
She sat for a considerable time , but all was still . 
When she was somewhat recovered , her first design was to alarm the family ; but farther reflection again withheld her . 
She endeavoured to compose her spirits , and addressed a short prayer to that Being who had hitherto protected her in every danger . 
While she was thus employed , her mind gradually became elevated and re-assured ; a sublime complacency filled her heart , and she sat down once more to pursue the narrative . 
-- He had told me I should not be permitted to live long , not more than three days , and bade me chuse whether I would die by poison or the sword . 
Adeline could not go on . 
All the circumstances that seemed to corroborate the fate of this unhappy man , crowded upon her mind . 
The reports concerning the abbey -- the dreams , which had forerun her discovery of the private apartments -- the singular manner in which she had found the MS. and the apparition , which she now believed she had really seen . 
She blamed herself for having not yet mentioned the discovery of the manuscript and chambers to La Motte , and resolved to delay the disclosure no longer than the following morning . 
The immediate cares that had occupied her mind , and a fear of losing the manuscript before she had read it , had hitherto kept her silent . 
Such a combination of circumstances she believed could only be produced by some supernatural power , operating for the retribution of the guilty . 
These reflections filled her mind with a degree of awe , which the loneliness of the large old chamber in which she sat , and the hour of the night , soon heightened into terror . 
She had never been superstitious , but circumstances so uncommon had hitherto conspired in this affair , that she could not believe them accidental . 
Her imagination , wrought upon by these reflections , again became sensible to every impression , she feared to look round , lest she should again see some dreadful phantom , and she almost fancied she heard voices swell in the storm , which now shook the fabric . 
Still she tried to command her feelings so as to avoid disturbing the family , but they became so painful , that even the dread of La Motte 's ridicule had hardly power to prevent her quitting the chamber . 
Her mind was now in such a state , that she found it impossible to pursue the story in the MS. though , to avoid the tortures of suspense , she had attempted it . 
She laid it down again , and tried to argue herself into composure . 
said she , `` I am at least innocent , and I shall not be punished for the crime of another . '' 
The violent gust of wind that now rushed through the whole suit of apartments , shook the door that led from her late bedchamber to the private rooms so forcibly , that Adeline , unable to remain longer in doubt , ran to see from whence the noise issued . 
The arras , which concealed the door , was violently agitated , and she stood for a moment observing it in indescribable terror , till believing it was swayed by the wind , she made a sudden effort to overcome her feelings , and was stooping to raise it . 
At that instant , she thought she heard a voice . 
She stopped and listened , but every thing was still ; yet apprehension so far overcame her , that she had no power , either to examine , or to leave the chambers . 
In a few moments the voice returned , she was now convinced she had not been deceived , for , though low , she heard it distinctly , and was almost sure it repeated her own name . 
So much was her fancy affected , that she even thought it was the same voice she had heard in her dreams . 
This conviction entirely subdued the small remains of her courage , and , sinking into a chair , she lost all recollection . 
How long she remained in this state she knew not , but when she recovered , she exerted all her strength , and reached the winding staircase , where she called aloud . 
No one heard her , and she hastened , as fast as her feebleness would permit , to the chamber of Madame La Motte . 
She tapped gently at the door , and was answered by Madame , who was alarmed at being awakened at so unusual an hour , and believed that some danger threatened her husband . 
When she understood that it was Adeline , and that she was unwell , she quickly came to her relief . 
The terror that was yet visible in Adeline 's countenance excited her inquiries , and the occasion of it was explained to her . 
Madame was so much discomposed by the relation that she called La Motte from his bed , who , more angry at being disturbed than interested for the agitation he witnessed , reproved Adeline for suffering her fancies to overcome her reason . 
She now mentioned the discovery she had made of the inner chambers and the manuscript , circumstances , which roused the attention of La Motte so much , that he desired to see the MS. and resolved to go immediately to the apartments described by Adeline . 
Madame La Motte endeavoured to dissuade him from his purpose ; but La Motte , with whom opposition had always an effect contrary to the one designed , and who wished to throw father ridicule upon the terrors of Adeline , persisted in his intention . 
He called to Peter to attend with a light , and insisted that Madame La Motte and Adeline should accompany him ; Madame La Motte desired to be excused , and Adeline , at first , declared she could not go ; but he would be obeyed . 
Adeline presented the MS. and pointed to the arras which concealed the door : La Motte lifted the arras , and opened the door ; but Madame La Motte and Adeline entreated to go no farther -- again he called to them to follow . 
La Motte , for reasons best known to himself , attempted to ridicule the discovery and fears of Adeline , till she , with a seriousness that checked him , entreated he would desist . 
He was silent , and soon after , Adeline , encouraged by the return of day-light , ventured to her chamber , and , for some hours , experienced the blessing of undisturbed repose . 
On the following day , Adeline 's first care was to obtain an interview with Peter , whom she had some hopes of seeing as she went down stairs ; he , however , did not appear , and she proceeded to the sitting room , where she found La Motte , apparently much disturbed . 
Adeline asked him if he had looked at the MS. `` I have run my eye over it , '' said he , `` but it is so much obscured by time that it can scarcely be decyphered . 
Adeline thought La Motte did not chuse to be convinced , and she , therefore , forbore reply . 
During breakfast , she often looked at Peter , -LRB- who waited -RRB- with anxious inquiry ; and , from his countenance , was still more assured , that he had something of importance to communicate . 
In the hope of some conversation with him , she left the room as soon as possible , and repaired to her favourite avenue , where she had not long remained when he appeared . 
`` Frighted me , '' said Adeline ; `` how was you concerned in that ? '' 
He then informed her , that when he thought Monsieur and Madame La Motte were asleep , he had stole to her chamber door , with an intention of giving her the sequel of what he had begun in the morning ; that he had called several times as loudly as he dared , but receiving no answer , he believed she was asleep , or did not chuse to speak with him , and he had , therefore , left the door . 
This account of the voice she had heard relieved Adeline 's spirits ; she was even surprised that she did not know it , till remembering the perturbation of her mind for some time preceding , this surprise disappeared . 
She entreated Peter to be brief in explaining the danger with which she was threatened . 
`` Be it so ; '' said Adeline , `` only remember that we may be observed . '' 
Adeline looked displeased . 
`` You trifle , '' said she , `` if you have any thing to tell , say it quickly ; I am in haste . '' 
Adeline turned pale -- she comprehended a part of the truth , and eagerly entreated him to proceed . 
`` No , '' said Adeline , in a tremulous accent , and scarcely able to support herself , `` pray proceed . '' 
said Adeline . 
exclaimed Adeline . 
`` You need not repeat any more of this conversation , '' said Adeline ; `` but tell me the result of what you heard from the parlour . '' 
Monsieur La Motte then told the Marquis , if he would return to the abbey upon such a night , meaning this very night , Ma'amselle , every thing should be prepared according to his wishes ; Adeline shall then be yours , my Lord , said he , -- you are already acquainted with her chamber . '' 
At these words , Adeline clasped her hands and raised her eyes to Heaven in silent despair . 
-- `` Why , as for that matter , says I '' -- Adeline , interrupting him , inquired if he had heard any thing farther . 
`` She was not present at this conversation then ? '' 
said Adeline . 
`` No , Ma'amselle , but my master has told her of it , I warrant . '' 
Adeline was almost as much shocked by this apparent perfidy of Madame La Motte , as by a knowledge of the destruction that threatened her . 
After musing a few moments in extreme agitation , `` Peter , '' said she , `` you have a good heart , and feel a just indignation at your master 's treachery -- will you assist me to escape ? '' 
replied Adeline , in extreme emotion , `` we fly from enemies ; strangers may prove friends : assist me but to escape from this forest , and you will claim my eternal gratitude : I have no fears beyond it . '' 
said Adeline with eagerness . 
`` Regard not that , '' said Adeline , `` if I was once beyond this forest , I would then endeavour to take care of myself , and repay you for your kindness . '' 
Adeline agreed to the truth of all this , and was somewhat surprized at Peter 's sagacity . 
She inquired if he knew of any place in the neighbourhood of the abbey , where she could remain concealed till he came with a horse . 
Adeline , remembering the last night , was somewhat startled at this intelligence ; but a sense of her present danger pressed again upon her mind , and overcame every other apprehension . 
said she , `` if it will conceal me , I shall not hesitate to go . '' 
Adeline , having looked round , without perceiving any person near , directed Peter to lead her to the tomb : they pursued the path , till turning into a gloomy romantic part of the forest , almost impervious to the rays of the sun , they came to the spot whither Louis had formerly traced his father . 
The stillness and solemnity of the scene struck awe upon the heart of Adeline , who paused and surveyed it for some time in silence . 
At length , Peter led her into the interior part of the ruin , to which they descended by several steps . 
`` I hope not , '' said Adeline . 
`` That 's more than can be said for all that lies buried at the abbey though , and '' -- Adeline interrupted him ; `` Hark ! 
surely , I hear a noise ; '' said she , `` Heaven protect us from discovery ! '' 
said Adeline -- `` I scarcely know myself , '' said Peter , for I never was so far before ; but the place seems quiet enough . '' 
Adeline sighed as she surveyed it . 
`` This is a frightful spot , '' said she , `` but if it will afford me a shelter , it is a palace . 
They re-ascended to the forest , and Adeline , fearful of observation , directed Peter to run first to the abbey , and invent some excuse for his absence , if he had been missed . 
When she was again alone , she yielded to a flood of tears , and indulged the excess of her distress . 
She saw herself without friends , without relations , destitute , forlorn , and abandoned to the worst of evils . 
Betrayed by the very persons , to whose comfort she had so long administered , whom she had loved as her protectors , and revered as her parents ! 
These reflections touched her heart with the most afflicting sensations , and the sense of her immediate danger was for a while absorbed in the grief occasioned by a discovery of such guilt in others . 
At length she roused all her fortitude , and turning towards the abbey , endeavoured to await with patience the hour of evening , and to sustain an appearance of composure in the presence of Monsieur and Madame La Motte . 
For the present she wished to avoid seeing either of them , doubting her ability to disguise her emotions : having reached the abbey , she , therefore , passed on to her chamber . 
Here she endeavoured to direct her attention to indifferent subjects , but in vain ; the danger of her situation , and the severe disappointment she had received , in the character of those whom she had so much esteemed , and even loved , pressed hard upon her thoughts . 
The behaviour of Madame La Motte in thus , by concealment , conspiring to her destruction , particularly shocked her . 
said she ; `` what a picture did `` it draw of the goodness of the world ! 
She now endeavoured to extenuate the conduct of Madame La Motte , by attributing it to a fear of her husband . 
`` She dare not oppose his will , '' said she , `` else she would warn me of my danger , and assist me to escape from it . 
Adeline was somewhat comforted by this thought . 
The benevolence of her heart taught her , in this instance , to sophisticate . 
She perceived not , that by ascribing the conduct of Madame La Motte to terror , she only softened the degree of her guilt , imputing it to a motive less depraved , but not less selfish . 
She remained in her chamber till summoned to dinner , when , drying her tears , she descended with faltering steps and a palpitating heart to the parlour . 
When she saw La Motte , in spite of all her efforts , she trembled and grew pale : she could not behold , even with apparent indifference , the man who she knew had destined her to destruction . 
He observed her emotion , and inquiring if she was ill , she saw the danger to which her agitation exposed her . 
Fearful lest La Motte should suspect its true cause , she rallied all her spirits , and , with a look of complacency , answered she was well . 
During dinner she preserved a degree of composure , that effectually concealed the varied anguish of her heart . 
When she looked at La Motte , terror and indignation were her predominant feelings ; but when she regarded Madame La Motte , it was otherwise ; gratitude for her former tenderness had long been confirmed into affection , and her heart now swelled with the bitterness of grief and disappointment . 
Madame La Motte , fearful that in the carelessness of the present moment he might betray himself , withdrew with Adeline to another room . 
Adeline recollected the happy hours she once passed with her , when confidence banished reserve , and sympathy and esteem dictated the sentiments of friendship : now those hours were gone for ever ; she could no longer unbosom her griefs to Madame La Motte ; no longer even esteem her . 
Yet , notwithstanding all the danger to which she was exposed by the criminal silence of the latter , she could not converse with her , consciously for the last time , without feeling a degree of sorrow , which wisdom may call weakness , but to which benevolence will allow a softer name . 
Madame La Motte , in her conversation , appeared to labour under an almost equal oppression with Adeline : her thoughts were abstracted from the subject of discourse , and there were long and frequent intervals of silence . 
Adeline more than once caught her gazing with a look of tenderness upon her , and saw her eyes fill with tears . 
By this circumstance she was so much affected , that she was several times upon the point of throwing herself at her feet , and imploring her pity and protection . 
Cooler reflection shewed her the extravagance and danger of this conduct : she suppressed her emotions , but they at length compelled her to withdraw from the presence of Madame La Motte . 
Adeline anxiously watched from her chamber window the sun set behind the distant hills , and the time of her departure draw nigh : it set with uncommon splendour , and threw a fiery gleam athwart the woods , and upon some scattered fragments of the ruins , which she could not gaze upon with indifference . 
`` Never , probably , again shall I see the sun sink below those hills , '' said she , `` or illumine this scene ! 
She wept to the thought . 
`` A few hours , '' resumed Adeline , `` and the Marquis will arrive -- a few hours , and this abbey will be a scene of confusion and tumult : every eye will be in search of me , every recess will be explored . '' 
These reflections inspired her with new terror , and increased her impatience to be gone . 
Twilight gradually came on , and she now thought it sufficiently dark to venture forth ; but , before she went , she kneeled down and addressed herself to Heaven . 
She implored support and protection , and committed herself to the care of the God of mercies . 
Having done this , she quitted her chamber , and passed with cautious steps down the winding staircase . 
No person appeared , and she proceeded through the door of the tower into the forest . 
She looked around ; the gloom of the evening obscured every object . 
With a trembling heart she sought the path pointed out by Peter , which led to the tomb ; having found it , she passed along forlorn and terrified . 
Often did she start as the breeze shook the light leaves of the trees , or as the bat fli -LSB- t -RSB- ted by , gamboling in the twilight ; and often , as she looked back towards the abbey , thought she distinguished , amid the deepening gloom , the figures of men Having proceeded some way , she suddenly heard the feet of horses , and soon after a sound of voices , among which she distinguished that of the Marquis : they seemed to come from the quarter she was approaching , and evidently advanced . 
Terror for some minutes arrested her steps ; she stood in a state of dreadful hesitation : to proceed was to run into the hands of the Marquis ; to return was to fall into the power of La Motte . 
Adeline had a short cessation of terror . 
She now understood that the Marquis had passed this spot only in his way to the abbey , and she hastened to secrete herself in the ruin . 
At length , after much difficulty , she reached it , the deep shades almost concealing it from her search . 
She paused at the entrance , awed by the solemnity that reigned within , and the utter darkness of the place ; at length she determined to watch without till Peter should arrive . 
`` If any person approaches , '' said she , `` I can hear them before they can see me , and I can then secrete myself in the cell . '' 
She leaned against a fragment of the tomb in trembling expectation , and , as she listened , no found broke the silence of the hour . 
The state of her mind can only be imagined , by considering that upon the present time turned the crisis of her fate . 
`` They have now , '' thought she , `` discovered my flight ; even now they are seeking me in every part of the abbey . 
The power of imagination almost overcame her . 
While she yet looked around , she saw lights moving at a distance ; sometimes they glimmered between the trees , and sometimes they totally disappeared . 
They seemed to be in a direction with the abbey ; and she now remembered , that in the morning she had seen a part of the fabric through an opening in the forest . 
She had , therefore , no doubt that the lights she saw proceeded from people in search of her ; who , she feared , not finding her at the abbey , might direct their steps towards the tomb . 
Her place of refuge now seemed too near her enemies to be safe , and she would have fled to a more distant part of the forest , but recollected that Peter would not know where to find her . 
While these thoughts passed over her mind , she heard distant voices in the wind , and was hastening to conceal herself in the cell , when she observed the lights suddenly disappear . 
All was soon after hushed in silence and darkness , yet she endeavoured to find the way to the cell . 
She remembered the situation of the outer door and of the passage , and having passed these she unclosed the door of the cell . 
She trembled violently , but entered ; and , having felt about the walls , at length seated herself on a projection of stone . 
She here again addressed herself to Heaven , and endeavoured to re-animate her spirits till Peter should arrive . 
Her spirits sunk , she feared some part of their plan was discovered , or interrupted , and that he was detained by La Motte . 
This conviction operated sometimes so strongly upon her fears , as to urge her to quit the cell alone , and seek in flight her only chance of escape . 
While this design was fluctuating in her mind , she distinguished through the grate above a clattering of hoofs . 
In the succeeding moment she heard three strokes of a whip ; her heart beat , and for some moments her agitation was such , that she made no effort to quit the cell . 
The strokes were repeated : she now roused her spirits , and , stepping forward , ascended to the forest . 
She called `` Peter ; '' for the deep gloom would not permit her to distinguish either man or horse . 
She was quickly answered , `` Hush ! 
Adeline 's heart revived at every step they took . 
She inquired what had passed at the abbey , and how he had contrived to get away . 
They looked back , and no lights appearing , Adeline 's terror subsided . 
She inquired again what had passed at the abbey , when her flight was discovered . 
`` You may speak without fear of being heard , '' said she , `` we are gone beyond their reach I hope . '' 
`` Speak louder , '' said Adeline , `` I can not hear you . '' 
interrupted Adeline , What voice is this ? 
Adeline , not doubting he was the Marquis 's servant , attempted to leap to the ground , but the man , dismounting , bound her to the horse . 
One feeble ray of hope at length beamed upon her mind : she endeavoured to soften the man to pity , and pleaded with all the genuine eloquence of distress ; but he understood his interest too well to yield even for a moment to the compassion , which , in spite of himself , her artless supplication inspired . 
She now resigned herself to despair , and , in passive silence , submitted to her fate . 
The man believed this a safe situation , and Adeline was now too careless of life to attempt convincing him of his error . 
The storm was violent and long , but as soon as it abated they set off on full gallop , and having continued to travel for about two hours , they came to the borders of the forest , and , soon after , to a high lonely wall , which Adeline could just distinguish by the moon-light , which now streamed through the parting clouds . 
Here they stopped ; the man dismounted , and having opened a small door in the wall , he unbound Adeline , who shrieked , though involuntarily and in vain , as he took her from the horse . 
He led her on ; they came to another door ; it opened and disclosed a magnificent saloon , splendidly illuminated , and fitted up in the most airy and elegant taste . 
Adeline was astonished , and inquired where she was , but the man refused to answer her questions , and , having desired her to take some refreshment , left her . 
She walked to the windows , from which a gleam of moon-light discovered to her an extensive garden , where groves and lawns , and water glittering in the moon-beam , composed a scenery of varied and romantic beauty . 
said she : `` Is this a charm to lure me to destruction ? '' 
She endeavoured , with a hope of escaping ; to open the windows , but they were all fastened ; she next attempted several doors , and found them also secured . 
Perceiving all chance of escape was removed , she remained for some time given up to sorrow and reflection ; but was at length drawn from her reverie by the notes of soft music , breathing such dulcet and entrancing sounds , as suspended grief , and waked the soul to tenderness and pensive pleasure . 
Adeline listened in surprize , and insensibly became soothed and interested ; a tender melancholy stole upon her heart , and subdued every harsher feeling : but the moment the strain ceased , the enchantment dissolved , and she returned to a sense of her situation . 
Again the music sounded -- `` music such as charmeth sleep '' -- and again she gradually yielded to its sweet magic . 
It sunk by degrees , and touched a few simple notes with pathetic softness , when the measure was suddenly changed , and in a gay and airy melody Adeline distinguished the following words : The music ceased , but the sound still vibrated on her imagination , and she was sunk in the pleasing languor they had inspired , when the door opened , and the Marquis de Montalt appeared . 
He approached the sofa where Adeline sat , and addressed her , but she heard not his voice -- she had fainted . 
He endeavoured to recover her , and at length succeeded ; but when she unclosed her eyes , and again beheld him , she relapsed into a state of insensibility , and having in vain tried various methods to restore her , he was obliged to call assistance . 
Two young women entered , and , when she began to revive , he left them to prepare her for his re-appearance . 
When Adeline perceived that the Marquis was gone , and that she was in the care of women , her spirits gradually returned ; she looked at her attendants , and was surprised to see so much elegance and beauty . 
Some endeavour she made to interest their pity , but they seemed wholly insensible to her distress , and began to talk of the Marquis in terms of the highest admiration . 
They assured her it would be her own fault if she was not happy , and advised her to appear so in his presence . 
It was with the utmost difficulty that Adeline forebore to express the disdain which was rising to her lips , and that she listened to their discourse in silence . 
But she saw the inconvenience and fruitlessness of opposition , and she commanded her feelings . 
Adeline beheld him with a kind of mute despair , while he approached and took her hand , which she hastily withdrew , and turning from him with a look of unutterable distress , burst into tears . 
He was for some time silent , and appeared softened by her anguish . 
But again approaching , and addressing her in a gentle voice , he entreated her pardon for the step , which despair , and , as he called it , love had prompted . 
She was too much absorbed in grief to reply , till he solicited a return of his love , when her sorrow yielded to indignation , and she reproached him with his conduct . 
He pleaded that he had long loved and sought her upon honourable terms , and his offer of those terms he began to repeat , but , raising his eyes towards Adeline , he saw in her looks the contempt which he was conscious he deserved . 
For a moment he was confused , and seemed to understand both that his plan was discovered and his person despised ; but soon resuming his usual command of feature , he again pressed his suit , and solicited her love . 
A little reflection shewed Adeline the danger of exasperating his pride , by an avowal of the contempt which his pretended offer of marriage excited ; and she thought it not improper , upon an occasion in which the honour and peace of her life was concerned , to yield somewhat to the policy of dissimulation . 
She saw that her only chance of escaping his designs depended upon delaying them , and she now wished him to believe her ignorant that the Marchioness was living , and that his offers were delusive . 
He observed her pause , and , in the eagerness to turn her hesitation to his advantage , renewed his proposal with increased vehemence . 
-- `` To-morrow shall unite us , lovely Adeline ; tomorrow you shall consent to become the Marchioness de Montalt . 
-- Adeline shuddered : `` If you wish I should esteem you , my Lord , endeavour , if possible , to make me forget by what means I came into your power ; if your views are , indeed , honourable , prove them so by releasing me from my confinement . '' 
`` Can you then wish , lovely Adeline , to fly from him who adores you ? '' 
No , charming Adeline , let me at least have the pleasure of beholding you , till the bonds of the church shall remove every obstacle to my love . 
To-morrow '' -- Adeline saw the danger to which she was now exposed , and interrupted him . 
Thus did Adeline , to whom the arts and the practice of dissimulation were hitherto equally unknown , condescend to make use of them in disguising her indignation and contempt . 
But though these arts were adopted only for the purpose of self-preservation , she used them with reluctance , and almost with abhorrence ; for her mind was habitually impregnated with the love of virtue , in thought , word , and action , and , while her end in using them was certainly good , she scarcely thought that end could justify the means . 
`` My first wish is to go hence , '' said Adeline ; `` I entreat , I conjure you , my Lord , no longer to detain me . 
Adeline had now forgot her policy : tears prevented her from proceeding , and she turned away her face to hide her emotion . 
Adeline , you do me wrong , '' said the Marquis , rising from his seat , and seizing her hand ; `` I love , I adore you ; yet you doubt my passion , and are insensible to my vows . 
She disengaged her hand , and in silent anguish walked to a distant part of the saloon ; deep sighs burst from her heart , and , almost fainting , she leaned on a window-frame for support . 
The Marquis followed her ; `` Why thus obstinately persist in refusing to be happy ? '' 
Adeline could answer only by tears ; she despaired of softening his heart to pity , and feared to exasperate his pride by disdain . 
He now led her , and she suffered him , to a seat near the banquet , at which he pressed her to partake of a variety of confectionaries , particularly of some liquors , of which he himself drank freely : Adeline accepted only of a peach . 
And now the Marquis , who interpreted her silence into a secret compliance with his proposal , resumed all his gaiety and spirit , while the long and ardent regards he bestowed on Adeline , overcame her with confusion and indignation . 
In the midst of the banquet , soft music again sounded the most tender and impassioned airs ; but its effect on Adeline was now lost , her mind being too much embarrassed and distressed by the presence of the Marquis , to admit even the soothings of harmony . 
Adeline received it with contempt and displeasure , and the Marquis , perceiving its effect , presently made a sign for another composition , which , adding the force of poetry to the charms of music , might withdraw her mind from the present scene , and enchant it in sweet delirium . 
When the voice ceased , a mournful strain , played with exquisite expression , sounded from a distant horn ; sometimes the notes floated on the air in soft undulations -- now they swelled into full and sweeping melody , and now died faintly into silence : when again they rose and trembled in sounds so sweetly tender , as drew tears from Adeline , and exclamations of rapture from the Marquis ; he threw his arm round her , and would have pressed her towards him , but she liberated herself from his embrace , and with a look , on which was impressed the firm dignity of virtue , yet touched with sorrow , she awed him to forbearance . 
Soon , however , he recovered his confidence , and began to plead his love ; when Adeline , no longer animated by the spirit she had lately shewn , and sinking beneath the languor and fatigue which the various and violent agitations of her mind produced , entreated he would leave her to repose . 
The paleness of her countenance , and the tremulous tone of her voice , were too expressive to be misunderstood ; and the Marquis , bidding her remember to-morrow , with some hesitation , withdrew . 
The moment she was alone , she yielded to the bursting anguish of her heart , and was so absorbed in grief , that it was some time before she perceived she was in the presence of the young women , who had lately attended her , and had entered the saloon soon after the Marquis quitted it : they came to conduct her to her chamber . 
She followed them for some time in silence , till , prompted by desperation , she again endeavoured to awaken their compassion : but again the praises of the Marquis were repeated , and perceiving that all attempts to interest them in her favour were in vain , she dismissed them . 
She secured the door through which they had departed , and then , in the languid hope of discovering some means of escape , she surveyed her chamber . 
Adeline threw a transient look upon these various objects , and proceeded to examine the windows , which descended to the floor , and opened into balconies towards the garden she had seen from the saloon . 
They were now fastened , and her efforts to move them were ineffectual ; at length she gave up the attempt . 
A door next attracted her notice , which she found was not fastened ; it opened upon a dressing closet , to which she descended by a few steps : two windows appeared , she hastened towards them ; one refused to yield , but her heart beat with sudden joy when the other opened to her touch . 
In the transport of the moment , she forgot that its distance from the ground might yet deny the escape she meditated . 
She returned to lock the door of the closet , to prevent a surprize , which , however , was unnecessary , that of the bedroom being already secured . 
She now looked out from the window ; the garden lay before her , and she perceived that the window , which descended to the floor , was so near the ground , that she might jump from it with ease : almost in the moment she perceived this , she sprang forward and alighted safely in an extensive garden , resembling more an English pleasure ground , than a series of French parterres . 
Thence she had little doubt of escaping , either by some broken fence , or low part of the wall ; she tripped lightly along , for hope played round her heart . 
The clouds of the late storm were now dispersed , and the moon-light , which slept on the lawns and spangled the flowerets , yet heavy with rain-drops , afforded her a distinct view of the surrounding scenery : she followed the direction of the high wall that adjoined the chateau , till it was concealed from her sight by a thick wilderness , so entangled with boughs and obscured by darkness , that she feared , to enter , and turned aside into a walk on the right ; it conducted her to the margin of a lake overhung with lofty trees . 
The moon-beams dancing upon the waters , that with gentle undulation played along the shore , exhibited a scene of tranquil beauty , which would have soothed an heart less agitated than was that of Adeline : she sighed as she transiently surveyed it , and passed hastily on in search of the garden wall , from which she had now strayed a considerable way . 
`` Fear nothing , lovely Adeline , '' said he , `` fear nothing : you are in the arms of a friend , who will encounter any hazard for your sake ; who will protect you with his life . '' 
Adeline was going to reply , when voices were heard among the trees , and Theodore , supporting her with his arm , hurried her along the avenue : they continued their flight till Adeline , panting for breath , could go no farther . 
He , however , concealed his apprehensions from Adeline , and endeavoured to soothe and support her spirits . 
At length they reached the wall , and Theodore was leading her towards a low part of it , near which stood the carriage , when again they heard voices in the air . 
Adeline 's spirits and strength were nearly exhausted , but she made a last effort to proceed , and she now saw the ladder at some distance by which Theodore had descended to the garden . 
He held the ladder while she ascended ; the top of the wall was broad and level , and Adeline , having reached it , remained there till Theodore followed and drew the ladder to the other side . 
Theodore feared to call , lest his voice should betray him ; he , therefore , put Adeline into the carriage , and went himself in search of the postillion , whom he found asleep under a tree at some distance ; having awakened him , they returned to the vehicle , which soon drove furiously away . 
Adeline did not yet dare to believe herself safe , but , after proceeding a considerable time without interruption , joy burst upon her heart , and she thanked her deliverer in terms of the warmest gratitude . 
The sympathy expressed in the tone of his voice and manner , proved that his happiness , on this occasion , almost equalled her own . 
As reflection gradually stole upon her mind , anxiety superseded joy : in the tumult of the late moments , she thought only of escape , but the circumstances of her present situation now appeared to her , and she became silent and pensive : she had no friends to whom she could fly , and was going with a young Chevalier , almost a stranger to her , she knew not whither . 
She remembered how often she had been deceived and betrayed where she trusted most , and her spirits sunk : she remembered also the former attention which Theodore had shewn her , and dreaded lest his conduct might be prompted by a selfish passion . 
She saw this to be possible , but she disdained to believe it probable , and felt that nothing could give her greater pain than to doubt the integrity of Theodore . 
He interrupted her reverie , by recurring to her late situation at the abbey . 
Adeline said , `` She had been much alarmed by the hints he had given her , and by his failing to afford farther information , concerning the subject of her danger ; and '' -- She checked the sentence that hung upon her lips , for she perceived that she was unwarily betraying the interest he held in her heart . 
Without waiting her reply , he proceeded to inform her , that the Marquis had , by some inexplicable means , learned or suspected the subject of their last conversation , and , perceiving his designs were in danger of being counteracted , had taken effectual means to prevent her obtaining farther intelligence of them . 
Adeline immediately recollected that Theodore and herself had been seen in the forest by La Motte , who had , no doubt , suspected their growing intimacy , and had taken care to inform the Marquis how likely he was to find a rival in his friend . 
Theodore having ceased to speak , `` I know not how words can express my sense of the obligations I owe you , '' said Adeline , `` or my gratitude for your generosity . '' 
Adeline was silent . 
Adeline was still silent . 
Adeline felt surprized that he should doubt her esteem for him , after the signal and generous service he had rendered her ; but she was not yet acquainted with the timidity of love . 
`` Do you then , '' said she , in a tremulous voice , believe me ungrateful ? 
Theodore immediately took her hand and pressed it to his lips in silence . 
Theodore entreated Adeline to alight and take some refreshment , and to this she at length consented . 
Having taken some slight refreshment , Theodore and Adeline returned to the carriage . 
When he first saw Adeline , her loveliness made a deep impression on his heart : there was a sentiment in her beauty , which his mind immediately acknowledged , and the effect of which , her manners and conversation had afterwards confirmed . 
Her charms appeared to him like those since so finely described by an English poet : A knowledge of her destitute condition , and of the dangers with which she was environed , had awakened in his heart the tenderest touch of pity , and assisted the change of admiration into love . 
The distress he suffered , when compelled to leave her exposed to these dangers , without being able to warn her of them , can only be imagined . 
During his residence with his regiment , his mind was the constant prey of terrors , which he saw no means of combating , but by returning to the neighbourhood of the abbey , where he might obtain early intelligence of the Marquis 's schemes , and be ready to give his assistance to Adeline . 
The progress of the Marquis 's plan he had observed , with trembling anxiety , till the night that was to decide the fate of Adeline and himself roused all his mind to action , and involved him in a tumult of hope and fear -- horror and expectation . 
Never , till the present hour , had he ventured to believe she was in safety . 
It was impossible he could sit by the side of his beloved Adeline , and receive assurances of her gratitude and esteem , without venturing to hope for her love . 
He congratulated himself as her preserver , and anticipated scenes of happiness when she should be under the protection of his family . 
When a shadow of fear would sometimes return , or when he recollected , with compunction , the circumstances under which he had left his regiment , stationed , as it was , upon the frontiers , and in a time of war , he looked at Adeline , and her countenance , with instantaneous magic , beamed peace upon his heart . 
But Adeline had a subject of anxiety from which Theodore was exempt ; the prospect of her future days was involved in darkness and uncertainty . 
Again she was going to claim the bounty of strangers -- again going to encounter the uncertainty of their kindness ; exposed to the hardships of dependance , or to the difficulty of earning a precarious livelihood . 
These anticipations obscured the joy occasioned by her escape , and by the affection which the conduct and avowal of Theodore had exhibited . 
The delicacy of his behaviour , in forbearing to take advantage of her present situation to plead his love , increased her esteem , and flattered her pride . 
Adeline was lost in meditation upon subjects like these , when the postillion stopped the carriage ; and pointing to part of a road , which wound down the side of a hill they had passed , said there were several horsemen in pursuit ! 
In the mean while Theodore endeavoured to re-animate Adeline , who was sinking with terror , and who now thought , if she could only escape from the Marquis , she could defy the future . 
For his sake Adeline endeavoured to disguise her emotions . 
Adeline appeared to be comforted by the hope this reflection suggested , and Theodore again looked back , but the windings of the road closed his view , and the rattling of the wheels overcame every other sound . 
The postillion sat off , `` Fear nothing , my adored Adeline , '' said he , `` you are now safe ; I will part with you but with life . '' 
Adeline sighed , not for herself only , but for the danger to which Theodore might be exposed . 
As Theodore lifted Adeline from the chaise , he again entreated her to dismiss her apprehensions , and spoke with a tenderness , to which she could reply only by a smile that ill concealed her anxiety . 
After ordering refreshments , he went out to speak with the landlord , but had scarcely left the room , when Adeline observed a party of horsemen enter the inn-yard , and she had no doubt these were the persons from whom they fled . 
The faces of two of them only were turned towards her , but she thought the figure of one of the others not unlike that of the Marquis . 
Her heart was chilled , and for some moments the powers of reason forsook her . 
Her first design was to seek concealment ; but while she considered the means one of the horsemen looked up to the window near which she stood , and speaking to his companions , they entered the inn . 
To quit the room , without being observed , was impossible ; to remain there , alone and unprotected as she was , would almost be equally dangerous . 
She paced the room in an agony of terror , often secretly calling on Theodore , and often wondering he did not return . 
A loud and tumultuous sound of voices now arose from a distant part of the house , and she soon distinguished the words of the disputants . 
The next minute Adeline heard the voice of Theodore in reply . 
He sprang forwards towards the room where Adeline remained , and while a serjeant and corporal followed him to the door , the two soldiers went out into the yard of the inn , to watch the windows of the apartment . 
With an eager hand he unclosed the door , but Adeline hastened not to meet him , for she had fainted almost at the beginning of the dispute . 
Theodore called loudly for assistance , and the mistress of the inn soon appeared with her stock of remedies , which were administered in vain to Adeline , who remained insensible , and by breathing alone gave signs of her existence . 
Saying this , they would have forced him from the inanimate form of Adeline , over whom he hung in unutterable anguish , when fiercely turning upon them , he drew his sword , and swore no power on earth should force him away before the lady recovered . 
The blood gushed furiously from the wound ; Theodore , staggering to a chair , sunk into it , just as the remainder of the party entered the room , and Adeline unclosed her eyes to see him ghastly pale , and covered with blood . 
She uttered an involuntary scream , and exclaiming , `` they have murdered him , '' nearly relapsed . 
At the sound of her voice he raised his head , and smiling held out his hand to her . 
She hastened towards him , and gave her hand . 
said she , with a look of agony . 
Adeline , who had hitherto stood in trembling anxiety , could now no longer be silent . 
`` Since the surgeon , '' said she , `` has declared it his opinion , that this gentleman can not be removed in his present condition , without endangering his life , you will remember , that if he dies , yours will probably answer it . '' 
Theodore heard this sentence with composure , but Adeline could with difficulty conceal the anguish of her heart : she roused all her fortitude to suppress the tears that struggled in her eyes ; and though she wished to interest the humanity , or to awaken the fears of the men , in behalf of their unfortunate prisoner , she dared not to trust her voice with utterance . 
From this internal struggle she was relieved by the compassion of the people who filled the room , and becoming clamorous in the cause of Theodore , declared the officers would be guilty of murder if they removed him . 
A faint sickness seized the heart of Adeline , and she leaned for support against Theodore 's chair , whose concern for himself was for a while suspended in his anxiety for her . 
He supported her with his arm , and forcing a smile , said in a low voice , which she only could hear , `` This is a misrepresentation ; I doubt not , when the affair is inquired into , it will be settled without any serious consequences . '' 
Adeline knew these words were uttered only to console her , and therefore did not give much credit to them , though Theodore continued to give her similar assurances of his safety . 
Adeline 's joy at this circumstance overcame for a moment the sense of her misfortunes , and of her situation . 
She waited in an adjoining room the sentence of the surgeon , who was now engaged in examining the wound ; and though the accident would in any other circumstances have severely afflicted her , she now lamented it the more , because she considered herself as the cause of it , and because the misfortune , by illustrating more fully the affection of her lover , drew him closer to her heart , and seemed , therefore , to sharpen the poignancy of her affliction . 
The dreadful assertion that Theodore , should he recover , would be punished with death , she scarcely dared to consider , but endeavoured to believe that it was no more than a cruel exaggeration of his antagonist . 
Upon the whole , Theodore 's present danger , together with the attendant circumstances , awakened all her tenderness , and discovered to her the true state of her affections . 
The graceful form , the noble , intelligent countenance , and the engaging manners which she had at first admired in Theodore , became afterwards more interesting by that strength of thought , and elegance of sentiment , exhibited in his conversation . 
His conduct , since her escape , had excited her warmest gratitude , and the danger which he had now encountered in her behalf , called forth her tenderness , and heightened it into love . 
The veil was removed from her heart , and she saw , for the first time , its genuine emotions . 
The surgeon at length came out of Theodore 's chamber into the room where Adeline was waiting to speak with him . 
She inquired concerning the state of his wound . 
The question vexed and embarrassed her , and , without answering it , she repeated her inquiry . 
`` Perhaps , Madam , you are more nearly related , '' pursued the surgeon , seeming also to disregard her question , `` perhaps you are his wife . '' 
Adeline blushed , and was about to reply , but he continued his speech . 
Adeline assuming a very reserved air , said , `` Now , Sir , that you have concluded your compliment , you will , perhaps , attend to my question ; I have inquired how you left your patient . '' 
The surgeon opened his snuff-box and presented it to Adeline . 
she exclaimed in a faint voice , `` Die ! '' 
`` Do not be alarmed , Madam , '' resumed the surgeon , observing her grow pale , `` do not be alarmed . 
But if , on the other hand , -- '' `` I beseech you , Sir , to speak intelligibly , '' interrupted Adeline , `` and not to trifle with my anxiety . 
Adeline remained for some moments in the room , in an excess of sorrow , which she found it impossible to restrain , and then drying her tears , and endeavouring to compose her countenance , she went to inquire for the mistress of the inn , to whom she sent a waiter . 
After expecting her in vain for some time , she rang the bell , and sent another message somewhat more pressing . 
Still the hostess did not appear , and Adeline , at length , went herself down stairs , where she found her , surrounded by a number of people , relating , with a loud voice and various gesticulations , the particulars of the late accident . 
Perceiving Adeline , she called out , `` Oh ! 
here is Mademoiselle herself , '' and the eyes of the assembly were immediately turned upon her . 
Adeline , whom the crowd prevented from approaching the hostess , now beckoned her , and was going to withdraw , but the landlady , eager in the pursuit of her story , disregarded the signal . 
In vain did Adeline endeavour to catch her eye ; it glanced every where but upon her , who was unwilling to attract the farther notice of the crowd by calling out . 
Adeline now spoke to a man who stood near , and desiring he would tell the hostess she wished to speak with her , left the place . 
Adeline inquired whether there was any other medical person in the town than the surgeon whom she had seen . 
Adeline interrupted her to ask some questions concerning Theodore , whom the hostess had attended to his chamber . 
She inquired how he had borne the dressing of the wound , and whether he appeared to be easier after the operation ; questions to which the hostess gave no very satisfactory answers . 
The distress visible in Adeline 's countenance , seemed to excite the compassion of the landlady , who now endeavoured to console her in the best manner she was able . 
She advised her to send for her friends , and offered to procure a messenger . 
Adeline sighed and said it was unnecessary . 
Adeline begged she would be silent , and , desiring that every proper attention might be given , she promised her a reward for her trouble , and requested pen and ink immediately . 
Adeline was obliged to repeat her request for pen and ink , before the loquacious hostess would quit the room . 
The thought of sending for Theodore 's friends had , in the tumult of the late scenes , never occurred to her , and she was now somewhat consoled by the prospect of comfort which it opened for him . 
When the pen and ink were brought , she wrote the following note to Theodore . 
In a short time after she had sent the note , she received a message from Theodore , entreating most respectfully , but earnestly , to see her for a few minutes . 
She immediately went to his chamber , and found her worst apprehensions confirmed , by the languor expressed in his countenance , while the shock she received , together with her struggle to disguise her emotions , almost overcame her . 
`` I thank you for this goodness , '' said he , extending his hand , which she received , and , sitting down by the bed , burst into a flood of tears . 
When her agitation had somewhat subsided , and , removing her handkerchief from her eyes , she again looked on Theodore , a smile of the tenderest love expressed his sense of the interest she took in his welfare , and administered a temporary relief to her heart . 
`` Forgive this weakness , '' said she ; `` my spirits have of late been so variously agitated '' -- Theodore interrupted her -- `` These tears are most flattering to my heart . 
But , for my sake , endeavour to support yourself : I doubt not I shall soon be better ; the surgeon '' -- `` I do not like him , '' said Adeline , `` but tell me how you find yourself ? '' 
He assured her that he was now much easier than he had yet been , and mentioning her kind note , he led to the subject , on account of which he had solicited to see her . 
`` My family , '' said he , `` reside at a great distance from hence , and I well know their affection is such , that , were they informed of my situation , no consideration , however reasonable , could prevent their coming to my assistance ; but before they can arrive , their presence will probably be unnecessary , '' -LRB- Adeline looked earnestly at him -RRB- `` I should probably be well , '' pursued he , smiling , `` before a letter could reach them ; it would , therefore , occasion them unnecessary pain , and , moreover , a fruitless journey . 
For your sake , Adeline , I could wish they were here , but a few days will more fully shew the consequences of my wound : let us wait , at least , till then , and be directed by circumstances . '' 
Adeline forbore to press the subject farther , and turned to one more immediately interesting . 
`` I much wish , '' said she , `` that you had a more able surgeon ; you know the geography of the province better than I do ; are we in the neighbourhood of any town likely to afford you other advice ? '' 
But why , my beloved Adeline , do you give way to this anxiety ? 
O Adeline ! 
-- She assured him she would endeavour to be , at least , tranquil , and fearing the conversation , if prolonged , would be prejudicial to him , she left him to repose . 
As she turned out of the gallery , she met the hostess , upon whom certain words of Adeline had operated as a talisman , transforming neglect and impertinence into officious civility . 
She came to inquire whether the gentleman above stairs had every thing that he liked , for she was sure it was her endeavour that he should . 
Adeline was extremely shocked at this imprudent conduct of the surgeon , and dismissed the landlady , after ordering a slight dinner . 
Towards evening the surgeon again made his appearance , and , having passed some time with his patient , returned to the parlour , according to the desire of Adeline , to inform her of his condition . 
He answered Adeline 's inquiries with great solemnity . 
-- Adeline , who had been compelled to listen to this long story , sighed at the conclusion of it . 
Adeline shuddered at the infallibility of his judgement , and made no reply . 
-- `` It was , indeed , very shocking , '' said Adeline . 
-- `` Undoubtedly , Sir , '' said Adeline . 
`` He lives in the obscurity he deserves , no doubt , '' said Adeline . 
During his narrative , Adeline had been considering by what means she could discover the name of the physician , for the instance that had been produced to prove his ignorance , and the infallibility of his opponent , had completely settled her opinion concerning them both . 
She now , more than ever , wished to deliver Theodore from the hands of the surgeon , and was musing on the possibility , when he , with so much self-security , developed the means . 
She asked him a few more questions , concerning the state of Theodore 's wound , and was told it was much as it had been , but that some degree of fever had come on . 
`` You do not approve , then , of the method , which I have somewhere heard of , '' said Adeline , `` of attending to nature in these cases . '' 
Adeline was fatigued by this discourse , and impatient to impart to Theodore her discovery of a physician , but the surgeon seemed by no means disposed to leave her , and was expatiating upon various topics , with new instances of his surprising sagacity , when the waiter brought a message that some person desired to see him . 
He was , however , engaged upon too agreeable a topic to be easily prevailed upon to quit it , and it was not till after a second message was brought that he made his bow to Adeline and left the room . 
The moment he was gone she sent a note to Theodore , entreating his permission to call in the assistance of the physician . 
Adeline immediately inquired for a messenger , but recollecting that the residence of the physician was still a secret , she applied to the hostess , who being really ignorant of it , or pretending to be so , gave her no information . 
What farther inquiries she made were equally ineffectual , and she passed some hours in extreme distress , while the disorder of Theodore rather increased than abated . 
When supper appeared , she asked the boy who waited , if he knew a physician of the name of Lafance , in the neighbourhood . 
-- Adeline inquired farther , and received very satisfactory answers . 
But the town was at some leagues distance , and the delay this circumstance must occasion again alarmed her ; she , however , ordered a messenger to be immediately dispatched , and , having sent again to inquire concerning Theodore , retired to her chamber for the night . 
The continued fatigue she had suffered for the last fourteen hours overcame anxiety , and her harrassed spirits sunk to repose . 
She slept till late in the morning , and was then awakened by the landlady , who came to inform her , that Theodore was much worse , and to inquire what should be done . 
Adeline , finding that the physician was not arrived , immediately arose , and hastened to inquire farther concerning Theodore . 
After asking some farther questions concerning Theodore , the answers to which rather increased than diminished her alarm , Adeline endeavoured to compose her spirits , and await in patience the arrival of the physician . 
She was now more sensible than ever of the forlornness of her own condition , and of the danger of Theodore 's , and earnestly wished that his friends could be informed of his situation ; a wish which could not be gratified , for Theodore , who alone could acquaint her with their place of residence , was deprived of recollection . 
When the surgeon arrived and perceived the situation of his patient , he expressed no surprize ; but having asked some questions , and given a few general directions , he went down to Adeline . 
After paying her his usual compliments , he suddenly assumed an air of importance , `` I am sorry , Madam , '' said he , `` that it is my office to communicate disagreeable intelligence , but I wish you to be prepared for the event , which , I fear , is approaching . '' 
Adeline comprehended his meaning , and though she had hitherto given little faith to his judgement , she could not hear him hint at the immediate danger of Theodore without yielding to the influence of fear . 
She entreated him to acquaint her with all he apprehended ; and he then proceeded to say , that Theodore was , as he had foreseen , much worse this morning than he had been the preceding night ; and the disorder having now affected his head , there was every reason to fear it would prove fatal in a few hours . 
Adeline listened to this sentence with a dreadful calmness , and gave no utterance to grief , either by words or tears . 
Adeline made an effort to speak , but in vain , and the surgeon now called loudly for a glass of water ; she drank it , and a deep sigh that she uttered , seemed somewhat to relieve her oppressed heart : tears succeeded . 
In the mean time , the surgeon perceiving she was better , though not well enough to listen to his conversation , took his leave , and promised to return in an hour . 
The physician was not yet arrived , and Adeline awaited his appearance with a mixture of fear and anxious hope . 
About noon he came , and having been informed of the accident by which the fever was produced , and of the treatment which the surgeon had given it , he ascended to Theodore 's chamber : in a quarter of an hour he returned to the room where Adeline expected him . 
inquired Adeline . 
He had scarcely , at Adeline 's request , recommended a surgeon , instead of the one at present employed , when the latter gentleman entered the room , and , perceiving the physician , threw a glance of mingled surprize and anger at Adeline , who retired with him to another apartment , where she dismissed him with a politeness , which he did not deign to return , and which he certainly did not deserve . 
The physician now gave Adeline reason to hope for a favourable issue , and every precaution was taken to prevent his being disturbed . 
He awoke perfectly sensible and free from fever , and his first words inquired for Adeline , who soon learned that he was out of danger . 
In a few days he was sufficiently recovered to be removed from his chamber to a room adjoining , where Adeline met him with a joy , which she found it impossible to repress ; and the observance of this lighted up his countenance with pleasure : indeed Adeline , sensible to the attachment he had so nobly testified , and softened by the danger he had encountered , no longer attempted to disguise the tenderness of her esteem , and was at length brought to confess the interest his first appearance had impressed upon her heart . 
After an hour of affecting conversation , in which the happiness of a young and mutual attachment occupied all their minds , and excluded every idea not in unison with delight , they returned to a sense of their present embarrassments : Adeline recollected that Theodore was arrested for disobedience of orders , and deserting his post ; and Theodore , that he must shortly be torn away from Adeline , who wound be left exposed to all the evils from which he had so lately rescued her . 
This thought overwhelmed his heart with anguish ; and , after a long pause , he ventured to propose , what his wishes had often suggested , a marriage with Adeline before he departed from the village : this was the only means of preventing , perhaps , an eternal separation ; and though he saw the many dangerous inconveniences to which she would be exposed , by a marriage with a man circumstanced like himself , yet these appeared so unequal to those she would otherwise be left to encounter alone , that his reason could no longer scruple to adopt what his affection had suggested . 
Adeline was , for some time , too much agitated to reply ; and though she had little to oppose to the arguments and pleadings of Theodore ; though she had no friends to control , and no contrariety of interests to perplex her , she could not bring herself to consent thus hastily to a marriage with a man , of whom she had little knowledge , and to whose family and connections she had no sort of introduction . 
At length , she entreated he would drop the subject , and the conversation for the remainder of the day was more general , yet still interesting . 
Adeline had enjoyed few opportunities of reading , but the books to which she had access , operating upon a mind eager for knowledge , and upon a taste peculiarly sensible of the beautiful and the elegant , had impressed all their excellencies upon her understanding . 
In the evening , one of the officers , who , upon the representation of the serjeant , was sent by the persons employed to prosecute military criminals , arrived at the village , and entering the apartment of Theodore , from which Adeline immediately withdrew , informed him , with an air of infinite importance , that he should set out on the following day for head-quarters . 
But his thoughts soon fled from his own danger to that of Adeline , and , in the consideration of this , all his fortitude forsook him : he could not support the idea of leaving her exposed to the evils he foreboded , nor , indeed , of a separation so sudden as that which now threatened him ; and when she again entered the room , he renewed his solicitations for a speedy marriage , with all the arguments that tenderness and ingenuity could suggest . 
Adeline , when she learned that he was to depart on the morrow , felt as if bereaved of her last comfort . 
All the horrors of his situation arose to her mind , and she turned from him in unutterable anguish . 
Considering her silence as a favourable presage , he repeated his entreaties that she would consent to be his , and thus give him a surety that their separation should not be eternal . 
Adeline sighed deeply to these words : `` And who can know that our separation will not be eternal , '' said she , `` even if I could consent to the marriage you propose ? 
Ah , Adeline ! 
replied Adeline ; `` and can you think so lightly of me as to believe I would profess a regard , which I do not feel ? 
`` Forgive me , Adeline , forgive the doubts and inconsistencies I have betrayed : let the anxieties of love , and the emergency of my circumstances , plead for me . '' 
Adeline , smiling faintly through her tears , held out her hand , which he seized and pressed to his lips . 
`` I am thinking how I may avoid a situation so deplorable , '' said Adeline . 
`` All this I have considered , '' said Adeline , `` and am prepared to encounter it , rather than enter into an engagement , which , at this time , can be productive only of misery to us both . '' 
`` Ah , Adeline ! 
But you , Adeline , you look with complacency upon a circumstance which tortures me with despair . '' 
Adeline , who had long strove to support her spirits in his presence , while she adhered to a resolution which reason suggested , but which the pleadings of her heart powerfully opposed , was unable longer to command her distress , and burst into tears . 
He drew his chair towards her , and , taking her hand , again entreated her pardon , and endeavoured in the tenderest accents to soothe and comfort her . 
Forgive me , Adeline ; say but you forgive me , and , whatever may be the pain of this separation , I will no longer oppose it . '' 
`` You have given me some pain , '' said Adeline , `` but you have not offended me . '' 
-- She then mentioned some farther particulars concerning the convent . 
Theodore endeavoured to conceal the distress which the approaching separation occasioned him , and to consult with her on these plans with composure . 
His judgement by degrees prevailed over his passions , and he now perceived that the plan she suggested would afford her best chance of security . 
He considered , what in the first agitation of his mind had escaped him , that he might be condemned upon the charges brought against him , and that his death , should they have been married , would not only deprive her of her protector , but leave her more immediately exposed to the designs of the Marquis , who would , doubtless , attend his trial . 
Astonished that he had not noticed this before , and shocked at the unwariness by which he might have betrayed her into so dangerous a situation , he became at once reconciled to the idea of leaving her in a convent . 
He could have wished to place her in the asylum of his own family , but the circumstances under which she must be introduced were so awkward and painful , and , above all , the distance at which they resided , would render a journey so highly dangerous for her , that he forbore to propose it . 
He entreated only that she would allow him to write to her ; but recollecting that his letters might be a means of betraying the place of her residence to the Marquis , he checked himself : `` I must deny myself even this melancholy pleasure , '' said he , `` lest my letters should discover your abode ; yet how shall I be able to endure the impatience and uncertainty to which prudence condemns me ! 
Adeline sat , overcome by the description which Theodore had given of his approaching situation , and by the consideration that she might remain in the most terrible suspense concerning his fate . 
She saw him in a prison -- pale -- emaciated , and in chains : -- she saw all the vengeance of the Marquis descending upon him ; and this for his noble exertions in her cause . 
Theodore , alarmed by the placid despair expressed in her countenance , threw himself into a chair by her 's , and , taking her hand , attempted to speak comfort to her , but the words faltered on his lips , and he could only bathe her hand with tears . 
He had flown to support Adeline , who was sinking with terror , when the door opened , and the Marquis , followed by the officers and several servants , entered . 
Fury flashed from his eyes , as they glanced upon Theodore , who hung over Adeline with a look of fearful solicitude -- `` Seize that traitor , '' said he , turning to the officers ; `` why have you `` suffered him to remain here so long ? '' 
Adeline shrieked , held faster by Theodore 's arm , and entreated the men not to part them . 
`` Dread every thing from my vengeance , '' said the Marquis to Theodore , as he caught the hand of Adeline , who had lost all power of resistance , and was scarcely sensible of what passed ; `` dread every thing from my vengeance ; you know you have deserved it . '' 
-- Theodore , exclaiming , `` Oh Adeline ! 
`` was now forced out of the room ; while Adeline , whose torpid senses were roused by his voice and his last looks , fell at the feet of the Marquis , and with tears of agony implored compassion for Theodore : but her pleadings for his rival served only to irritate the pride and exasperate the hatred of the Marquis . 
He denounced vengeance on his head , and imprecations too dreadful for the spirits of Adeline , whom he compelled to rise ; and then , endeavouring to stifle the emotions of rage , which the presence of Theodore had excited , he began to address her with his usual expressions of admiration . 
The wretched Adeline , who , regardless of what he said , still continued to plead for her unhappy lover , was at length alarmed by the returning rage which the countenance of the Marquis expressed , and , exerting all her remaining strength , she sprung from his grasp towards the door of the room ; but he seized her hand before she could reach it , and , regardless of her shrieks , bringing her back to her chair , was going to speak , when voices were heard in the passage , and immediately the landlord and his wife , whom Adeline 's cries had alarmed , entered the apartment . 
The Marquis , turning furiously to them , demanded what they wanted ; but not waiting for their answer , he bade them attend him , and quitting the room , she heard the door locked upon her . 
Adeline now ran to the windows , which were unfastened , and opened into the inn-yard . 
She called aloud for help , but no person appeared ; and the windows were so high , that it was impossible to escape unassisted . 
She walked about the room in an agony of terror and distress , now stopping to listen , and fancying she heard voices disputing below , and now quickening her steps , as suspense increased the agitation of her mind . 
She had continued in this state for near half an hour , when she suddenly heard a violent noise in the lower part of the house , which increased till all was uproar and confusion . 
She called , but received no answer . 
It immediately occurred to her , that Theodore , having heard her screams , had attempted to come to her assistance , and that the bustle had been occasioned by the opposition of the officers . 
Knowing their fierceness and cruelty , she was seized with dreadful apprehensions for the life of Theodore . 
A confused uproar of voices now sounded from below , and the screams of women convinced her there was fighting ; she even thought she heard the clashing of swords ; the image of Theodore , dying by the hands of the Marquis , now rose to her imagination , and the terrors of suspense became almost insupportable . 
She made a desperate effort to force the door , and again called for help , but her trembling hands were powerless , and every person in the house seemed to be too much engaged even to hear her . 
A loud shriek now pierced her ears , and , amidst the tumult that followed , she clearly distinguished deep groans . 
This confirmation of her fears deprived her of all her remaining spirits , and growing faint , she sunk almost lifeless into a chair near the door . 
The uproar gradually subsided till all was still , but nobody returned to her . 
Soon after she heard voices in the yard , but she had no power to walk across the room , even to ask the questions she wished , yet feared , to have answered . 
`` For God 's sake , '' said Adeline , `` tell me what has happened ? 
Adeline tried to escape by the door , but the hostess , pushing her aside , locked it , and went down stairs . 
Adeline 's distress now entirely overcame her , and she sat motionless , and scarcely conscious that she existed , till roused by a sound of footsteps near the door , which was again opened , and three men , whom she knew to be the Marquis 's servants , entered . 
Adeline , partly disdaining to take any notice of this artful story , and partly from her desire to know the particulars of what had happened , contented herself with repeating her inquiries ; to which one of the spectators at last replied , that the gentleman was desperately wounded . 
The Marquis 's people would now have hurried her into the chaise , but she sunk lifeless in their arms , and her condition so interested the humanity of the spectators , that , notwithstanding their belief of what had been said , they opposed the effort made to carry her , senseless as she was , into the carriage . 
She was at length taken into a room , and , by proper applications , restored to her senses . 
There she so earnestly besought an explanation of what had happened , that the hostess acquainted her with some particulars of the late rencounter . 
-- `` It is the Marquis then who is wounded , '' said Adeline ; `` the other gentleman is not hurt ? '' 
Adeline , for a moment , forgot all her misfortunes and all her danger in thankfulness for the immediate escape of Theodore ; and she was proceeding to make some farther inquiries concerning him , when the Marquis 's servants entered the room , and declared they could wait no longer . 
Adeline , now awakened to a sense of the evils with which she was threatened , endeavoured to win the pity of the hostess , who , however , was , or affected to be , convinced of the truth of the Marquis 's story , and , therefore , insensible to all she could urge . 
Again she addressed his servants , but in vain ; they would neither suffer her to remain longer at the inn , or inform her whither she was going ; but , in the presence of several persons , already prejudiced by the injurious assertions of the hostess , Adeline was hurried into the chaise , and her conductors mounting their horses , the whole party was very soon beyond the village . 
Thus ended Adeline 's share of an adventure , begun with a prospect not only of security , but of happiness ; an adventure , which had attached her more closely to Theodore , and shewn him to be more worthy of her love ; but which , at the same time , had distressed her by new disappointment , produced the imprisonment of her generous and now-adored lover , and delivered both himself and her into the power of a rival , irritated by delay , contempt , and opposition . 
The surgeon of the place , having examined the Marquis 's wound , gave him an immediate opinion upon it , and ordered that he should be put to bed : but the Marquis , ill as he was , had scarcely any other apprehension than that of losing Adeline , and declared he should be able to begin his journey in a few hours . 
This man , the convenient confidant of all his intrigues , had been the chief instrument in assisting his designs concerning Adeline , and was indeed the very person who had brought her to the Marquis 's villa on the borders of the forest . 
To him the Marquis gave his farther directions concerning her ; and , foreseeing the inconvenience , as well as the danger of detaining her at the inn , he had ordered him , with several other servants , to carry her away immediately in a hired carriage . 
The reproaches and continued opposition of Theodore , the favoured lover of Adeline , exasperated his pride , and roused all his malice . 
When he had discovered Adeline 's escape from the villa , his surprize at first equalled his disappointment ; and , after exhausting the paroxysms of his rage upon his domestics , he dispatched them all different ways in pursuit of her , going himself to the abbey , in the faint hope , that , destitute as she was of other succour , she might have fled thither . 
La Motte , however , being as much surprized as himself , and as ignorant of the route which Adeline had taken , he returned to the villa , impatient of intelligence , and found some of his servants arrived , without any news of Adeline , and those who came afterwards were as successless as the first . 
This information , confirming a suspicion which had frequently occurred to him , that Theodore had been by some means , or other , instrumental in the escape of Adeline , all his other passions became , for a time , subservient to his revenge , and he gave orders for the immediate pursuit and apprehension of Theodore : but Theodore , in the mean time , had been overtaken and secured . 
It was in consequence of having formerly observed the growing partiality between him and Adeline , and of intelligence received from La Motte , who had noticed their interview in the forest , that the Marquis had resolved to remove a rival so dangerous to his love , and so likely to be informed of his designs . 
He had therefore told Theodore , in a manner as plausible as he could , that it would be necessary for him to join the regiment ; a notice which affected him only as it related to Adeline , and which seemed the less extraordinary , as he had already been at the villa a much longer time than was usual with the officers invited by the Marquis . 
From the men who had apprehended Theodore , the Marquis received the information , which had enabled him to pursue and recover Adeline ; but , though he had now effected this , he was internally a prey to the corrosive effects of disappointed passion and exasperated pride . 
While he was in this state , he heard the voice of the innocent Adeline imploring protection ; but her cries excited in him neither pity or remorse ; and when , soon after , the carriage drove away , and he was certain both that she was secured , and Theodore was wretched , he seemed to feel some cessation of mental pain . 
What indignation he might feel towards the Marquis , was at this time secondary to his anxiety for Adeline . 
His captivity was painful , as it prevented his seeking a just and honourable revenge ; but it was dreadful , as it withheld him from attempting the rescue of her whom he loved more than life . 
When he heard the wheels of the carriage that contained her drive off , he felt an agony of despair which almost overcame his reason . 
He had hoped , by aggravating his danger , to obtain some advantages , both for Adeline and Theodore , but the plan had quite a contrary effect ; for the apprehension of death , so dreadful to the guilty mind of the Marquis , instead of awakening penitence , increased his desire of vengeance against the man , who had brought him to such a situation . 
He determined to have Adeline conveyed , where Theodore , should he by any accident escape , could never obtain her ; and thus to secure to himself , at least , some means of revenge . 
For himself he felt little ; it was for his family , and for Adeline he suffered . 
He inquired what route she had taken , and though he had no prospect of deriving advantage from the information , desired the physician to assist him in obtaining it ; but the landlord and his wife either were , or affected to be , ignorant of the matter , and it was in vain to apply to any other person . 
The whole party immediately set off , and the unhappy Theodore was left to the remembrance of his past hopes and sufferings , to his anxiety for the fate of Adeline , the contemplation of his present wretchedness , and the apprehension of what might be reserved for him in future . 
For himself , indeed , he saw nothing but destruction , and was only relieved from total despair , by a feeble hope that she , whom he loved better than himself , might one time enjoy that happiness , of which he did not venture to look for a participation . 
Meanwhile the persecuted Adeline continued to travel , with little interruption , all night . 
Her mind suffered such a tumult of grief , regret , despair , and terror , that she could not be said to think . 
The Marquis 's valet , who had placed himself in the chaise with her , at first seemed inclined to talk , but her inattention soon silenced him , and left her to the indulgence of her own misery . 
They seemed to travel through obscure lanes and bye-ways , along which the carriage drove as furiously as the darkness would permit : when the dawn appeared , she perceived herself on the borders of a forest , and renewed her entreaties to know whither she was going . 
The man replied , he had no orders to tell , but she would soon see . 
Adeline , who had hitherto supposed they were carrying her to the villa , now began to doubt it ; and as every place appeared less terrible to her imagination than that , her despair began to abate , and she thought only of the devoted Theodore , whom she knew to be the victim of malice and revenge . 
They now entered upon the forest , and it occurred to her that she was going to the abbey ; for though she had no remembrance of the scenery , through which she passed , it was not the less probable that this was the forest of Fontangville , whose boundaries were by much too extensive to have come within the circle of her former walks . 
This conjecture revived a terror , little inferior to that occasioned by the idea of going to the villa , for at the abbey she would be equally in the power of the Marquis , and also in that of her cruel enemy , La Motte . 
Her mind revolted at the picture her fancy drew , and as the carriage moved under the shades , she threw from the window a look of eager inquiry for some object which might confirm , or destroy her present surmise : she did not long look , before an opening in the forest shewed her the distant towers of the abbey -- `` I am , indeed , lost then ! '' 
said she , bursting into tears . 
When he saw Adeline , he looked surprized and made an effort to speak , but the chaise now drove up to the abbey , where , at the door of the hall , La Motte himself appeared . 
As he advanced to take her from the carriage , an universal trembling seized her ; it was with the utmost difficulty she supported herself , and for some moments she neither observed his countenance , nor heard his voice . 
He offered his arm to assist her into the abbey , which she at first refused , but having tottered a few paces , was obliged to accept ; they then entered the vaulted room , where , sinking into a chair , a flood of tears came to her relief . 
When Adeline was sufficiently recovered to notice external objects , she observed his countenance , and there read the tumult of his soul , while he was struggling to assume a firmness , which his better feelings opposed . 
La Motte now took her hand , and would have led her from the room , but she stopped , and , with a kind of desperate courage , made an effort to engage him to pity , and to save her . 
He interrupted her ; `` It is not in my power , '' said he , in a voice of emotion ; `` I am not master of myself , or my conduct ; inquire no farther -- it is sufficient for you to know that I pity you ; more I can not do . '' 
He gave her no time to reply , but , taking her hand , led her to the stairs of the tower , and from thence to the chamber she had formerly occupied . 
Adeline made an effort to speak , but he hurried from the room , seemingly ashamed of the part he had undertaken , and unwilling to trust himself with her tears . 
She heard the door of the chamber locked , and then , looking towards the windows , perceived they were secured : the door that led to the other apartments was also fastened . 
Such preparation for security shocked her , and , hopeless as she had long believed herself , she now perceived her mind sink deeper in despair . 
When the tears she shed had somewhat relieved her , and her thoughts could turn from the subjects of her immediate concern , she was thankful for the total seclusion allotted her , since it would spare her the pain she must feel in the presence of Monsieur and Madame La Motte , and allow the unrestrained indulgence of her own sorrow and reflection ; reflection which , however distressing , was preferable to the agony inflicted on the mind , when agitated by care and fear , it is obliged to assume an appearance of tranquillity . 
In about a quarter of an hour , her chamber door was unlocked , and Annette appeared with refreshments and books : she expressed satisfaction at seeing Adeline again , but seemed fearful of speaking , knowing , probably , that it was contrary to the orders of La Motte , who , she said , was waiting at the bottom of the stairs . 
When Annette was gone , Adeline took some refreshment , which was indeed necessary ; for she had tasted nothing since she left the inn . 
She was pleased , but not surprized , that Madame La Motte did not appear , who , it was evident , shunned her from a consciousness of her own ungenerous conduct , a consciousness , which offered some presumption , that she was still not wholly unfriendly to her . 
She reflected upon the words of La Motte , `` I am not master of myself , or my conduct , '' and though they afforded her no hope , she derived some comfort , poor as it was , from the belief that he pitied her . 
After some time spent in miserable reflection and various conjectures , her long-agitated spirits seemed to demand repose , and she laid down to sleep . 
Adeline slept quietly for several hours , and awoke with a mind refreshed and tranquillized . 
To prolong this temporary peace , and to prevent , therefore , the intrusion of her own thoughts , she examined the books La Motte had sent her : among these she found some that in happier times had elevated her mind and interested her heart ; their effect was now weakened , they were still , however , able to soften for a time the sense of her misfortunes . 
But this Lethean medicine to a wounded mind was but a temporary blessing ; the entrance of La Motte dissolved the illusions of the page , and awakened her to a sense of her own situation . 
Again she endeavoured to read , but his appearance had broken the enchantment -- bitter reflection returned to her mind , and brought with it the image of Theodore -- of Theodore lost to her for ever ! 
Instead of employing his mind upon the means of saving Adeline from destruction , and himself from being instrumental to it , he endeavoured only to lull the pangs of conscience and to persuade himself into a belief that he must proceed in the course he had begun . 
The honour of Adeline and the quiet of his own conscience he consented to barter for a few years of existence . 
He was ignorant of the present illness of the Marquis , or he would have perceived that there was a chance of escaping the threatened punishment at a price less enormous than infamy , and he would , perhaps , have endeavoured to save Adeline and himself by flight . 
Adeline , as he expected , had neither inclination nor opportunity to mention it , and thus La Motte remained ignorant of the circumstance , which might have preserved him from farther guilt and Adeline from misery . 
Most unwillingly had La Motte made his wife acquainted with the action , which had made him absolutely dependent upon the will of the Marquis , but the perturbation of his mind partly betrayed him : frequently in his sleep he muttered incoherent sentences , and frequently would start from his slumber and call , in passionate exclamation , upon Adeline . 
She hinted her suspicions to La Motte , who reproved her for having entertained them , but his manner , instead of repressing , increased her fears for Adeline ; fears , which the conduct of the Marquis soon confirmed . 
On the night that he slept at the abbey , it had occurred to her , that whatever scheme was in agitation would now most probably be discussed , and anxiety for Adeline made her stoop to a meanness , which , in other circumstances , would have been despicable . 
She quitted her room , and , concealing herself in an apartment adjoining that in which she had left the Marquis and her husband , listened to their discourse . 
It turned upon the subject she had expected , and disclosed to her the full extent of their designs . 
Terrified for Adeline , and shocked at the guilty weakness of La Motte , she was for some time incapable of thinking , or determining how to proceed . 
She knew her husband to be under great obligation to the Marquis , whose territory thus afforded him a shelter from the world , and that it was in the power of the former to betray him into the hands of his enemies . 
She believed also that the Marquis would do this , if provoked , yet she thought , upon such an occasion , La Motte might find some way of appeasing the Marquis , without subjecting himself to dishonour . 
After some farther reflection , her mind became more composed , and she returned to her chamber , where La Motte soon followed . 
Her spirits , however , were not now in a state to encounter either his displeasure , or his opposition , which she had too much reason to expect , whenever she should mention the subject of her concern , and she , therefore , resolved not to notice it till the morrow . 
On the morrow , she told La Motte all he had uttered in his dreams , and mentioned other circumstances , which convinced him it was in vain any longer to deny the truth of her apprehensions . 
His wife then represented to him how possible it was to avoid the infamy , into which he was about to plunge , by quitting the territories of the Marquis , and pleaded so warmly for Adeline , that La Motte , in sullen silence , appeared to meditate upon the plan . 
La Motte meditated how to break this to his wife , for he perceived that there was no other method of counteracting her virtuous compassion for Adeline , and the dangerous consequences to be expected from it , than by opposing it with terror for his safety , and this could be done only by shewing her the full extent of the evils that must attend the resentment of the Marquis . 
At length , finding it impossible to mention particulars , he told her that , on account of an affair , which no entreaties should ever induce him to explain , his life was in the power of the Marquis . 
`` You see the alternative , '' said he , `` take your choice of evils , and , if you can , tell Adeline of her danger , and sacrifice my life to save her from a situation , which many would be ambitious to obtain . '' 
-- Madame La Motte , condemned to the horrible alternative of permitting the seduction of innocence , or of dooming her husband to destruction , suffered a distraction of thought , which defied all controul . 
Perceiving , however , that an opposition to the designs of the Marquis would ruin La Motte and avail Adeline little , she determined to yield and endure in silence . 
At the time when Adeline was planning her escape from the abbey , the significant looks of Peter had led La Motte to suspect the truth and to observe them more closely . 
Circumstances so unusual left him not a doubt that Adeline had discovered her danger , and was concerting with Peter some means of escape . 
The menace intimidated Peter , and , supposing that all chance of assisting Adeline was gone , he made a circumstantial confession , and promised to forbear acquainting Adeline with the discovery of the scheme . 
In this promise he was seconded by inclination , for he feared to meet the displeasure , which Adeline , believing he had betrayed her , might express . 
On the evening of the day , on which Adeline 's intended escape was discovered , the Marquis designed to come to the abbey , and it had been agreed that he should then take Adeline to his villa . 
La Motte had immediately perceived the advantage of permitting Adeline to repair , in the belief of being undiscovered , to the tomb . 
It would prevent much disturbance and opposition , and spare himself the pain he must feel in her presence , when she should know that he had betrayed her . 
A servant of the Marquis might go , at the appointed hour , to the tomb , and wrapt in the disguise of night , might take her quietly thence in the character of Peter . 
Thus , without resistance , she would be carried to the villa , nor discover her mistake till it was too late to prevent its consequence . 
When the Marquis did arrive , La Motte , who was not so much intoxicated by the wine he had drank , as to forget his prudence , informed him of what had happened and what he had planned , and the Marquis approving it , his servant was made acquainted with the signal , which afterwards betrayed Adeline to his power . 
A deep consciousness of the unworthy neutrality she had observed in Adeline 's concerns , made Madame La Motte anxiously avoid seeing her now that she was again in the abbey . 
Adeline understood this conduct , and she rejoiced that she was spared the anguish of meeting her as an enemy , whom she had once considered as a friend . 
The perilous situation of Theodore was almost the constant subject of her thoughts . 
Often did she breathe an agonizing wish for his safety , and often look round the sphere of possibility in search of hope : but hope had almost left the horizon of her prospect , and when it did appear , it sprung only from the death of the Marquis , whose vengeance threatened most certain destruction . 
One moment he believed himself dying , another he could scarcely be prevented from attempting to follow Adeline to the abbey . 
At length the servant , who had carried off Adeline , returned , and the Marquis having ordered him into his chamber , asked so many questions in a breath , that the man knew not which to answer . 
He , however , broke the the seal , and found it to be a note of inquiry , written by Adeline to Theodore during his illness , and which , from some accident she had been prevented from sending him . 
The tender solicitude it expressed for his recovery stung the soul of the Marquis , and drew from him a comparison of her feelings on the illness of his rival and that of himself . 
`` She could be solicitous for his recovery , '' said he , `` but for mine , she only dreads it . '' 
He repeated this injunction , that Adeline should be strictly guarded , and renewed his promises of reward for the future services of La Motte . 
La Motte , to whom each succeeding day had brought new surprize and perplexity concerning the absence of the Marquis , received this notice with uneasiness , for he had begun to hope that the Marquis had altered his intentions concerning Adeline , being either engaged in some new adventure , or obliged to visit his estates in some distant province : he would have been willing thus to have got rid of an affair , which was to reflect so much dishonour on himself . 
Adeline passed these days in a state of suspense , which was now cheered by hope , and now darkened by despair . 
This delay , so much exceeding her expectation , seemed to prove that the illness of the Marquis was dangerous ; and when she looked forward to the consequences of his recovery , she could not be sorry that it was so . 
So odious was the idea of him to her mind , that she would not suffer her lips to pronounce his name , nor make the inquiry of Annette , which was of such consequence to her peace . 
It was about a week after the receipt of the Marquis 's letter , that Adeline one day saw from her window a party of horsemen enter the avenue , and knew them to be the Marquis and his attendants . 
She retired from the window in a state of mind not to be described , and , sinking into a chair , was for some time scarcely conscious of the objects around her . 
When she had recovered from the first terror , which his appearance excited , she again tottered to the window ; the party was not in sight , but she heard the trampling of horses , and knew that the Marquis had wound round to the great gate of the abbey . 
She addressed herself to Heaven for support and protection , and her mind being now somewhat composed , sat down to wait the event . 
La Motte received the Marquis with expressions of surprize at his long absence , and the latter , merely saying he had been detained by illness , proceeded to inquire for Adeline . 
He was told she was in her chamber , from whence she might be summoned if he wished to see her . 
The Marquis hesitated , and at length excused himself , but desired she might be strictly watched . 
`` Perhaps , my Lord , '' said La Motte smiling , `` Adeline 's obstinacy has been too powerful for your passion ; you seem less interested concerning her than formerly . '' 
by no means , '' replied the Marquis ; `` she interests me , if possible , more than ever ; so much , indeed , that I can not have her too closely guarded ; and I , therefore , beg La Motte , that you will suffer no body to attend her , but when you can observe them yourself . 
Is the room where she is confined sufficiently secure ? '' 
La Motte assured him it was ; but at the same time expressed his wish that she was removed to the villa . 
`` If by any means , '' said he , `` she should contrive to escape , I know what I must expect from your displeasure ; and this reflection keeps my mind in continual anxiety . '' 
`` This removal can not be at present , '' said the Marquis ; `` she is safer here , and you do wrong to disturb yourself with any apprehension of her escape , if her chamber is really so secure , as you represent it . '' 
`` I do not suspect you of any , '' said the Marquis ; `` guard her carefully , and trust me , she will not escape . 
The Marquis , after remaining about half an hour in conversation with La Motte , left the abbey , and Adeline saw him depart with a mixture of surprize and thankfulness that almost overcame her . 
She had waited in momentary expectation of being summoned to appear , and had been endeavouring to arm herself with resolution to support his presence . 
She had listened to every voice that sounded from below , and at every step that crossed the passage , her heart had palpitated with dread , lest it should be La Motte coming to lead her to the Marquis . 
This state of suffering had been prolonged almost beyond her power of enduring it , when she heard voices under her window , and rising , saw the Marquis ride away . 
After giving way to the joy and thankfulness that swelled her heart , she endeavoured to account for this circumstance , which , considering what had passed , was certainly very strange . 
It appeared , indeed , wholly inexplicable , and , after much fruitless inquiry , she quitted the subject , endeavouring to persuade herself that it could only portend good . 
The time of La Motte 's usual visitation now drew near , and Adeline expected it in the trembling hope of hearing that the Marquis had ceased his persecution ; but he was , as usual , sullen and silent , and it was not till he was about to quit the room , that Adeline had the courage to inquire , when the Marquis was expected again ? 
La Motte , opening the door to depart , replied , `` On the following day , '' and Adeline , whom fear and delicacy embarrassed , saw she could obtain no intelligence of Theodore but by a direct question ; she looked earnestly , as if she would have spoke , and he stopped , but she blushed and was still silent , till upon his again attempting to leave the room , she faintly called him back . 
`` I would ask , '' said she , `` after that unfortunate chevalier who has incurred the resentment of the Marquis by endeavouring to serve me . 
`` Since I must feel resentment towards those who injure me , '' said Adeline , `` I may surely be allowed to be grateful towards those who serve me . 
Indignation , grief , and fear , struggled in the bosom of Adeline ; she disdained to give La Motte an opportunity of again pronouncing the name of Theodore ; yet the uncertainty under which she laboured , urged her to inquire , whether the Marquis had heard of him since he left Caux ? 
Adeline had neither power nor inclination to inquire farther , and La Motte quitting the chamber , she was left to the misery he had renewed . 
Though this information contained no new circumstance of misfortune , -LRB- for she now heard confirmed what she had always expected -RRB- a weight of new sorrow seemed to fall upon her heart , and she perceived that she had unconsciously cherished a latent hope of Theodore 's escape before he reached the place of his destination . 
All hope was now , however , gone ; he was suffering the miseries of a prison , and the tortures of apprehension both for his own life and her safety . 
She pictured to herself the dark damp dungeon where he lay , loaded with chains , and pale with sickness and grief ; she heard him , in a voice that thrilled her heart , call upon her name , and raise his eyes to Heaven in silent supplication : she saw the anguish of his countenance , the tears that fell slowly on his cheek , and remembering , at the same time , the generous conduct that had brought him to this abyss of misery , and that it was for her sake he suffered , grief resolved itself into despair , her tears ceased to flow , and she sunk silently into a state of dreadful torpor . 
`` I think , La Motte , '' said he , `` I have given you sufficient proof that I can be grateful : the services you have already rendered me with respect to Adeline have not been unrewarded . '' 
Your farther views respecting her I am ready to assist . '' 
-- Adeline '' -- the Marquis hesitated . 
-- `` Adeline , '' rejoined La Motte , eager to anticipate his wishes , `` has beauty worthy of your pursuit . 
She has inspired a passion of which she ought to be proud , and , at any rate , she shall soon be yours . 
Her charms are worthy of '' -- `` Yes , yes , '' interrupted the Marquis ; `` but '' -- he paused . 
-- `` But they have given you too much trouble in the pursuit , '' said La Motte ; `` and to be sure , my Lord , it must be confessed they have ; but this trouble is all over -- you may now consider her as your own . '' 
-- Beauty such as Adeline 's '' -- `` Watch her closely , '' interrupted the Marquis , `` and on no account suffer her to leave her apartment . 
Where is she now ? '' 
`` Confined in her chamber . '' 
Come thither about twelve -- I will be there to conduct you to her chamber . 
Remember , then , my Lord , that to-night '' -- `` Adeline dies ! '' 
`` Why should you wish the death of Adeline -- of Adeline whom so lately you loved ? '' 
`` Make no inquiries for my motive , '' said the Marquis ; `` but it is as certain as that I live that she you name must die . 
When he considered the innocence and the helplessness of Adeline , her orphan state , her former affectionate conduct , and her confidence in his protection , his heart melted with compassion for the distress he had already occasioned her , and shrunk in terror from the deed he was urged to commit . 
Adeline , mean while , in the solitude of her prison , gave way to the despair which her condition inspired . 
She tried to arrange her thoughts , and to argue herself into some degree of resignation ; but reflection , by representing the past , and reason , by anticipating the future , brought before her mind the full picture of her misfortunes , and she sunk in despondency . 
Of Theodore , who , by a conduct so noble , had testified his attachment and involved himself in ruin , she thought with a degree of anguish infinitely superior to any she had felt upon any other occasion . 
That the very exertions which had deserved all her gratitude , and awakened all her tenderness , should be the cause of his destruction , was a circumstance so much beyond the ordinary bounds of misery , that her fortitude sunk at once before it . 
The idea of Theodore suffering -- Theodore dying -- was for ever present to her imagination , and frequently excluding the sense of her own danger , made her conscious only of his . 
Sometimes the hope he had given her of being able to vindicate his conduct , or at least to obtain a pardon , would return ; but it was like the faint beam of an April morn , transient and cheerless . 
She knew that the Marquis , stung with jealousy , and exasperated to revenge , would pursue him with unrelenting malice . 
Her distress was considerably heightened by reflecting that no intelligence of him could reach her at the Abbey , and that she must remain she knew not how long in the most dreadful suspence concerning his fate . 
From the Abbey she saw no possibility of escaping . 
She was a prisoner in a chamber inclosed at every avenue : she had no opportunity of conversing with any person who could afford her even a chance of relief ; and she saw herself condemned to await in passive silence the impending destiny , infinitely more dreadful to her imagination than death itself . 
Thus circumstanced , she yielded to the pressure of her misfortunes , and would sit for hours motionless and given up to thought . 
she would frequently exclaim , `` you can not hear my voice , you can not fly to help me ; yourself a prisoner and in chains . '' 
The swelling anguish of her heart would subdue her utterance -- tears bathed her cheeks -- and she became insensible to every thing but the misery of Theodore . 
On this evening her mind had been remarkably tranquil ; and as she watched from her window , with a still and melancholy pleasure , the setting sun , the fading splendour of the western horizon , and the gradual approach of twilight , her thoughts bore her back to the time when , in happier circumstances , she had watched the same appearances . 
She recollected also the evening of her temporary escape from the Abbey , when from this same window she had viewed the declining sun -- how anxiously she had awaited the fall of twilight -- how much she had endeavoured to anticipate the events of her future life -- with what trembling fear she had descended from the tower and ventured into the forest . 
His hand shook so violently , when he attempted to unlock the door of Adeline 's chamber , that he was obliged to set the lamp on the ground , and apply both his hands . 
The noise he made with the key induced him to suppose he must have awakened her ; but when he opened the door , and perceived the stillness that reigned within , he was convinced she was asleep . 
When he approached the bed he heard her gently breathe , and soon after sigh -- and he stopped ; but silence returning , he again advanced , and then heard her sing in her sleep . 
As he listened he distinguished some notes of a melancholy little air which , in her happier days , she had often sung to him . 
The low and mournful accent in which she now uttered them expressed too well the tone of her mind . 
La Motte now stepped hastily towards the bed , when , breathing a deep sigh , she was again silent . 
He undrew the curtain , and saw her laying in a profound sleep , her cheek yet wet with tears , resting upon her arm . 
He stood a moment looking at her ; and as he viewed her innocent and lovely countenance , pale in grief , the light of the lamp , which shone strong upon her eyes , awoke her , and , perceiving a man , she uttered a scream . 
Her recollection returning , she knew him to be La Motte , and it instantly recurring to her that the Marquis was at hand , she raised herself in bed , and implored pity and protection . 
La Motte stood looking eagerly at her , but without replying . 
The wildness of his looks and the gloomy silence he preserved increased her alarm , and with tears of terror she renewed her supplication . 
`` You once saved me from destruction , '' cried she ; `` O save me now ! 
Adeline immediately arose and endeavoured to dress , but her thoughts were so bewildered that she scarcely knew what she did , and her whole frame so violently agitated that it was with the utmost difficulty she preserved herself from fainting . 
She threw her clothes hastily on , and then sat down to await the return of La Motte . 
A considerable time elapsed , yet he did not appear , and , having in vain endeavoured to compose her spirits , the pain of suspence at length became so insupportable , that she opened the door of her chamber , and went to the top of the staircase to listen . 
She thought she heard voices below ; but , considering that if the Marquis was there her appearance could only increase her danger , she checked the step she had almost involuntarily taken to descend . 
Still she listened , and still thought she distinguished voices . 
Soon after she heard a door shut , and then footsteps , and she hastened back to her chamber . 
When again she thought she heard a murmur of voices below , and also passing steps , and at length her anxiety not suffering her to remain in her room , she moved through the passage that communicated with the spiral staircase ; but all was now still . 
He looked up , and seeing Adeline in the gallery , beckoned her to descend . 
She hesitated and looked towards her chamber ; but La Motte now approached the stairs , and , with faultering steps , she went to meet him . 
`` I fear the Marquis may see me , '' said she , whispering ; `` where is he ? '' 
La Motte took her hand , and led her on , assuring her she had nothing to fear from the Marquis . 
The wildness of his looks , however , and the trembling of his hand , seemed to contradict this assurance , and she inquired whither he was leading her . 
New terror seized her . 
She could scarcely believe that La Motte , who had hitherto conspired with the Marquis , and had so closely confined her , should now himself undertake her escape , and she at this moment felt a dreadful presentiment , which it was impossible to account for , that he was leading her out to murder her in the forest . 
Again shrinking back , she supplicated his mercy . 
He assured her he meant only to protect her , and desired she would not waste time . 
There was something in his manner that spoke sincerity , and she suffered him to conduct her to a side door that opened into the forest , where she could just distinguish through the gloom a man on horseback . 
This brought to her remembrance the night in which she had quitted the tomb , when trusting to the person who appeared she had been carried to the Marquis 's villa . 
La Motte called , and was answered by Peter , whose voice somewhat re-assured Adeline . 
He then told her that the Marquis would return to the Abbey on the following morning , and that this could be her only opportunity of escaping his designs ; that she might rely upon his -LRB- La Motte 's -RRB- word , that Peter had orders to carry her wherever she chose ; but as he knew the Marquis would be indefatigable in search of her , he advised her by all means to leave the kingdom , which she might do with Peter , who was a native of Savoy , and would convey her to the house of his sister . 
`` To save you , Adeline , I have risked my life ; do not increase my danger and your own by any unnecessary discoveries . 
Adeline could no longer doubt his sincerity , and her transports of joy and gratitude would scarcely permit her to thank him . 
She wished to have bid Madame La Motte farewell , and indeed earnestly requested it ; but he again told her she had no time to lose , and , having wrapped her in a large cloak , he lifted her upon the horse . 
She bade him adieu with tears of gratitude , and Peter set off as fast as the darkness would permit . 
Adeline , not chusing to reproach him with the treachery of which she feared he had been formerly guilty , thanked him for his good wishes , and said she hoped they should be more fortunate ; but Peter , in his usual strain of eloquence , proceeded to undeceive her in this point , and to acquaint her with every circumstance which his memory , and it was naturally a strong one , could furnish . 
Peter expressed such an artless interest in her welfare , and such a concern for her disappointment , that she could no longer doubt his faithfulness ; and this conviction not only strengthened her confidence in the present undertaking , but made her listen to his conversation with kindness and pleasure . 
`` Possibly not , '' said Adeline : `` I am thankful to Monsieur La Motte that we have more certain means of procuring conveniences . 
Adeline resolved to go with him to Savoy . 
La Motte , who knew the character and designs of the Marquis , had advised her to leave the kingdom , and had told her , what her fears would have suggested , that the Marquis would be indefatigable in search of her . 
His motive for this advice must be a desire of serving her ; why else , when she was already in his power , should he remove her to another place , and even furnish her with money for the expences of a journey ? 
At Leloncourt , where Peter said he was well known , she would be most likely to meet with protection and comfort , even should his sister be dead ; and its distance and solitary situation were circumstances that pleased her . 
They travelled for several hours in darkness and silence , and it was not till they emerged from the forest that Adeline saw the morning light streak the eastern clouds . 
The sight cheered and revived her ; and as she travelled silently along her mind revolved the events of the past night , and meditated plans for the future . 
The present kindness of La Motte appeared so very different from his former conduct that it astonished and perplexed her , and she could only account for it by attributing it to one of those sudden impulses of humanity which sometimes operate even upon the most depraved hearts . 
But when she recollected his former words , `` that he was not master of himself , '' she could scarcely believe that mere pity could induce him to break the bonds which had hitherto so strongly held him , and then , considering the altered conduct of the Marquis , she was inclined to think that she owed her liberty to some change in his sentiments towards her ; yet the advice La Motte had given her to quit the kingdom , and the money with which he had supplied her for that purpose , seemed to contradict this opinion , and involved her again in doubt . 
As soon as Peter thought the horse sufficiently rested , they again set forward , and from the rich plains of the Lyonnois Adeline , for the first time , caught a view of the distant alps , whose majestic heads , seeming to prop the vault of heaven , filled her mind with sublime emotions . 
In a few hours they reached the vale , in which stands the city of Lyons , whose beautiful environs , studded with villas , and rich with cultivation , withdrew Adeline from the melancholy contemplation of her own circumstances , and her more painful anxiety for Theodore . 
When they reached that busy city , her first care was to inquire concerning the passage of the Rhone ; but she forbore to make these inquiries of the people of the inn , considering that if the Marquis should trace her thither they might enable him to pursue her route . 
She , therefore , sent Peter to the quays to hire a boat , while she herself took a slight repast , it being her intention to embark immediately . 
Having taken some refreshment , she ordered him to conduct her to the vessel . 
A new and striking scene presented itself to Adeline , who looked with surprise upon the river gay with vessels , and the quay crowded with busy faces , and felt the contrast which the cheerful objects around bore to herself -- to her an orphan , desolate , helpless , and flying from persecution and her country . 
She spoke with the master of the boat , and having sent Peter back to the inn for the horse , -LRB- La Motte 's gift to Peter in lieu of some arrears of wages -RRB- they embarked . 
As they slowly passed up the Rhone , whose steep banks , crowned with mountains , exhibited the most various , wild , and romantic scenery , Adeline sat in pensive reverie . 
The novelty of the scene through which she floated , now frowning with savage grandeur , and now smiling in fertility , and gay with towns and villages , soothed her mind , and her sorrow gradually softened into a gentle and not unpleasing melancholy . 
She had seated herself at the head of the boat , where she watched its sides cleave the swift stream , and listened to the dashing of the waters . 
The weather was fine , and Adeline , regardless of the dews that now fell , remained in the open air , observing the objects darken round her , the gay tints of the horizon fade away , and the stars gradually appear , trembling upon the lucid mirror of the waters . 
Adeline sat lost in thought : the forlornness of her circumstances came heightened to her imagination . 
She saw herself surrounded by the darkness and stillness of night , in a strange place , far distant from any friends , going she scarcely knew whither , under the guidance of strangers , and pursued , perhaps , by an inveterate enemy . 
She pictured to herself the rage of the Marquis now that he had discovered her flight , and though she knew it very unlikely he should follow her by water , for which reason she had chosen that manner of travelling , she trembled at the portrait her fancy drew . 
Her thoughts then wandered to the plan she should adopt after reaching Savoy ; and much as her experience had prejudiced her against the manners of a convent , she saw no place more likely to afford her a proper asylum . 
At length she retired to the little cabin for a few hours repose . 
She awoke with the dawn , and her mind being too much disturbed to sleep again , she rose and watched the gradual approach of day . 
As she mused , she expressed the feelings of the moment in the following When Adeline left the Abbey , La Motte had remained for some time at the gate , listening to the steps of the horse that carried her , till the sound was lost in distance ; he then turned into the hall with a lightness of heart to which he had long been a stranger . 
The satisfaction of having thus preserved her , as he hoped , from the designs of the Marquis , overcame for a while all sense of the danger in which this step must involve him . 
There was only one horse ; but he considered whether it would be best to set off immediately for Auboine , where a carriage might be procured to convey his family and his moveables from the Abbey , or quietly to await the arrival of the Marquis , and endeavour to impose upon him by a forged story of Adeline 's escape . 
By remaining at the Abbey it would appear that he was unconscious of deserving the Marquis 's resentment , and though he could not expect to impress a belief upon him that his orders had been executed , he might make it appear that Peter only had been accessary to the escape of Adeline ; an account which would seem the more probable from Peter 's having been formerly detected in a similar scheme . 
When the Marquis did arrive , and was informed of Adeline 's flight , the strong workings of his soul , which appeared in his countenance , for a while alarmed and terrified La Motte . 
He cursed himself and her in terms of such coarseness and vehemence as La Motte was astonished to hear from a man whose manners were generally amiable , whatever might be the violence and criminality of his passions . 
To invent and express these terms seemed to give him not only relief , but delight ; yet he appeared more shocked at the circumstance of her escape than exasperated at the carelessness of La Motte and recollecting at length that he wasted time , he left the Abbey , and dispatched several of his servants in pursuit of her . 
When he was gone , La Motte , believing his story had succeeded , returned to the pleasure of considering that he had done his duty , and to the hope that Adeline was now beyond the reach of pursuit . 
`` I am not to be imposed upon , '' said he , `` by such a superficial story as you have invented ; you know your life is in my hands ; tell me instantly where you have secreted Adeline , or I will charge you with the crime you have committed against me ; but , upon your disclosing the place of her concealment , I will dismiss the officers , and , if you wish it , assist you to leave the kingdom . 
La Motte attempted to appease the Marquis , and affirmed that Adeline was really fled he knew not whither . 
They entered the room and seized La Motte , whom terror now deprived of all power of resistance , could resistance have availed him , and in the perturbation of his mind he informed the Marquis that Adeline had taken the road to Lyons . 
This discovery , however , was made too late to serve himself ; the Marquis seized the advantage it offered , but the charge had been given , and , with the anguish of knowing that he had exposed Adeline to danger , without benefiting himself , La Motte submitted in silence to his fate . 
Scarcely allowing him time to collect what little effects might easily be carried with him , the officers conveyed him from the Abbey ; but the Marquis , in consideration of the extreme distress of Madame La Motte , directed one of his servants to procure a carriage from Auboine that she might follow her husband . 
The Marquis , in the mean time , now acquainted with the route Adeline had taken , sent forward his faithful valet to trace her to her place of concealment , and return immediately with inteligence to the villa . 
Adeline , mean while , and Peter proceeded on their voyage , without any accident , and landed in Savoy , where Peter placed her upon the horse , and himself walked beside her . 
When he came within sight of his native mountains , his extravagant joy burst forth into frequent exclamations , and he would often ask Adeline if she had ever seen such hills in France . 
Adeline , lost in admiration of the astonishing and tremendous scenery around her , assented very warmly to the truth of Peter 's assertion , which encouraged him to expatiate more largely upon the advantages of his country ; its disadvantages he totally forgot ; and though he gave away his last sous to the children of the peasantry that run barefooted by the side of the horse , he spoke of nothing but the happiness and content of the inhabitants . 
Adeline , who now began to feel the effects of long anxiety and fatigue , much wished to arrive at the end of her journey , and inquired impatiently of Peter concerning it . 
Her spirits , thus weakened , the gloomy grandeur of the scenes which had so lately awakened emotions of delightful sublimity , now awed her into terror ; she trembled at the sound of the torrents rolling among the clifts and thundering in the vale below , and shrunk from the view of the precipices , which sometimes overhung the road , and at others appeared beneath it . 
Fatigued as she was , she frequently dismounted to climb on foot the steep slinty road , which she feared to travel on horseback . 
The day was closing when they drew near a small village at the foot of the Savoy Alps , and the sun , in all his evening splendour , now sinking behind their summits , threw a farewell gleam athwart the landscape , so soft and glowing as drew from Adeline , languid as she was , an exclamation of rapture . 
The romantic situation of the village next attracted her notice . 
Adeline listened with a melancholy pleasure to these artless expressions of Peter , who , in retracing the scenes of his former days , seemed to live them over again . 
As they passed on , so many of his old friends flocked round him , that Adeline became quite weary of the delay . 
On seeing Adeline , she seemed surprised , but assisted her to alight , and conducting her into a small but neat cottage , received her with a warmth of ready kindness which would have graced a better situation . 
Adeline desired to speak with her alone , for the room was now crowded with Peter 's friends , and then acquanting her with such particulars of her circumstances as it was necessary to communicate , desired to know if she could be accommodated with lodging in the cottage . 
Adeline , who had been long struggling with fatigue and indisposition , now yielded to their pressure . 
She said she was , indeed , ill ; but hoped that rest would restore her , and desired a bed might be immediately prepared . 
As she leaned forward over the bed , and with a smile of mingled tenderness and joy inquired of her patient how she did , Adeline gazed in silent admiration upon the most interesting female countenance she had ever seen , in which the expression of sweetness , united with lively sense and refinement , was chastened by simplicity . 
Adeline at length recollected herself sufficiently to thank her kind inquirer , and begged to know to whom she was obliged , and where she was ? 
In a few minutes she returned with an elderly lady , who , approaching the bed with an air of tender interest , asked concerning the state of Adeline ; to which the latter replied , as well as the agitation of her spirits would permit , and repeated her desire of knowing to whom she was so greatly obliged . 
Adeline gratefully smiled , and bowed her head in silent assent . 
The lady now quitted the room for a medicine ; having given which to Adeline , the curtain was closed , and she was left to repose . 
But her thoughts were too busy to suffer her to profit by the opportunity . 
She contemplated the past , and viewed the present , and , when she compared them , the contrast struck her with astonishment . 
Yet she looked forward to the future with a trembling anxiety , that threatened to retard her recovery , and which , when she remembered the words of her generous benefactress , she endeavoured to suppress . 
Had she better known the disposition of the persons in whose house she now was , her anxiety , as far as it regarded herself , must in a great measure have been done away ; for La Luc , its owner , was one of those rare characters to whom misfortune seldom looks in vain , and whose native goodness , confirmed by principle , is uniform and unassuming in its acts . 
They put on their hats and followed the good woman to the cottage , where , in a very small , close room , on a miserable bed , lay Adeline , pale , emaciated , and unconscious of all around her . 
Madame La Luc now inquired into the particulars of Adeline 's story , and heard as much as Peter knew of it , being only that his late master found her in a very distressed situation , and that he had himself brought her from the Abbey to save her from a French Marquis . 
The simplicity of Peter 's manner would not suffer her to question his veracity , though some of the circumstances he related excited all her surprise , and awakened all her pity . 
Madame told him where she had been , and related the history of Adeline and her present condition . 
On the following morning Adeline , wrapped in blankets , and sheltered as much as possible from the air , was brought to the chateau , where the good La Luc desired she might have every attention paid her , and where Clara watched over her with unceasing anxiety and tenderness . 
The reader will find that his virtues and his friendship to Adeline deserved this notice . 
Adeline , assisted by a fine constitution , and the kind attentions of her new friends , was in a little more than a week so much recovered as to leave her chamber . 
She was introduced to La Luc , whom she met with tears of gratitude , and thanked for his goodness in a manner so warm , yet so artless , as interested him still more in her favour . 
During the progress of her recovery , the sweetness of her behaviour had entirely won the heart of Clara , and greatly interested that of her aunt , whose reports of Adeline , together with the praises bestowed by Clara , had excited both esteem and curiosity in the breast of La Luc ; and he now met her with an expression of benignity which spoke peace and comfort to her heart . 
These circumstances were repeated to La Luc , who , ever sensible to the sufferings of others , was particularly interested by the singular misfortunes of Adeline . 
Near a fortnight had elapsed since her removal to the chateau , when one morning La Luc desired to speak with her alone . 
She followed him into his study , and then in a manner the most delicate he told her , that , as he found she was so unfortunate in her father , he desired she would henceforth consider him as her parent , and his house as her home . 
The strong emotions of surprise and gratitude for some time kept Adeline silent . 
Adeline wiped away the tears which his goodness had excited , and was going to speak ; but La Luc pressed her hand , and , turning away to conceal his emotion , walked out of the room . 
Adeline was now considered as a part of the family , and in the parental kindness of La Luc , the sisterly affection of Clara , and the steady and uniform regard of Madame , she would have been happy as she was thankful , had not unceasing anxiety for the fate of Theodore , of whom in this solitude she was less likely than ever to hear , corroded her heart , and embittered every moment of reflection . 
Adeline found that no species of writing had power so effectually to withdraw her mind from the contemplation of its own misery as the higher kinds of poetry , and in these her taste soon taught her to distinguish the superiority of the English from that of the French . 
She frequently took a volume of Shakespear or Milton , and , having gained some wild eminence , would seat herself beneath the pines , whose low murmurs soothed her heart , and conspired with the visions of the poet to lull her to forgetfulness of grief . 
One evening , when Clara was engaged at home , Adeline wandered alone to a favourite spot among the rocks that bordered the lake . 
Adeline gazed on the scene with a kind of still rapture , and watched the sun sinking amid a crimson glow , which tinted the bosom of the lake and the snowy heads of the distant alps . 
was now heightened by the tones of a French horn , and , looking on the lake , she perceived at some distance a pleasure boat . 
As it was a spectacle rather uncommon in this solitude , she concluded the boat contained a party of foreigners come to view the wonderful scenery of the country , or perhaps of Genevois , who chose to amuse themselves on a lake as grand , though much less extensive , than their own ; and the latter conjecture was probably just . 
As she listened to the mellow and enchanting tones of the horn , which gradually sunk away in distance , the scene appeared more lovely than before , and finding it impossible to forbear attempting to paint in language what was so beautiful in reality , she composed the following . 
La Luc observing how much Adeline was charmed with the features of the country , and desirous of amusing her melancholy , which , notwithstanding her efforts , was often too apparent , wished to shew her other scenes than those to which her walks were circumscribed . 
He proposed a party on horseback to take a nearer view of the Glaciers ; to attempt their ascent was a difficulty and fatigue to which neither La Luc , in his present state of health , nor Adeline , were equal . 
She had not been accustomed to ride single , and the mountainous road they were to pass made the experiment rather dangerous ; but she concealed her fears , and they were not sufficient to make her wish to forego an enjoyment such as was now offered her . 
It is unnecessary to describe the high enthusiasm of Adeline , the more complacent pleasure of La Luc , and the transports of Clara , as the scenes of this romantic country shifted to their eyes . 
Adeline felt a sweet complacency , such as she had long been a stranger to . 
Looking at La Luc , she perceived a tear stealing down his cheek , while the elevation of his mind was strongly expressed on his countenance . 
`` The stillness and total seclusion of this scene , '' said Adeline , `` those stupendous mountains , the gloomy grandeur of these woods , together with that monument of faded glory on which the hand of time is so emphatically impressed , diffuse a sacred enthusiasm over the mind , and awaken sensations truly sublime . '' 
-- La Luc smiled at the romantic simplicity of the idea ; but Adeline sighed deeply to the image of felicity , and of Theodore , which it recalled , and turned away to conceal her tears . 
The emotions of Adeline , as she contemplated in various points of view the astonishing objects around her , surpassed all expression ; and the feelings of the whole party were too strong to admit of conversation . 
`` It seems , '' said Adeline , `` as if we were walking over the ruins of the world , and were the only persons who had survived the wreck . 
Could she have been sheltered from its fury , Adeline almost wished to have witnessed the tremendous effect of a thunder storm in these regions . 
The compassion expressed in his countenance , while he inquired how she did , revived her spirits , and she was endeavouring to thank him for his kindness when La Luc and Adeline came up . 
The terror impressed on her father 's features was perceived by Clara ; languid as she was , she tried to raise herself , and said , with a faint smile , which betrayed , instead of disguising , her sufferings , `` Dear Sir , I am not hurt . '' 
But La Luc , to whom terror had suggested the utmost possible evil , now rejoiced to hear her speak ; he recalled some presence of mind , and while Adeline applied her salts , he chafed her temples . 
When she revived she told him how much she was obliged to the stranger . 
Clara was assisted to her chamber by Adeline , and Madame La Luc undertook to examine the wounds . 
Madame having bathed Clara 's bruises , and given her a cordial of incomparable efficacy , left her , and Adeline watched in the chamber of her friend till she retired to her own for the night . 
Repose had so much restored Clara , that when Adeline , anxious to know how she did , went early in the morning to her chamber , she found her already risen , and ready to attend the family at breakfast . 
Clara and Adeline loved to pass the evenings in this hall , where they had acquired the first rudiments of astronomy , and from which they had a wide view of the heavens . 
In the habitation of La Luc he met with the hospitality , the frankness , and the simplicity , so characteristic of the country : in his venerable host he saw the strength of philosophy united with the finest tenderness of humanity -- a philosophy which taught him to correct his feelings , not to annihilate them ; in Clara , the bloom of beauty , with the most perfect simplicity of heart ; and in Adeline all the charms of elegance and grace , with a genius deserving of the highest culture . 
Adeline and Clara , whom the care of Madame had restored to her usual health , were generally of the party . 
As he said this , Adeline , who had for some time observed , with much alarm , La Luc 's declining health , looked mournfully on his languid countenance , and uttered a secret prayer that he might live to receive the visit of M. Verneuil . 
Madame was the only person who did not lament his departure , she saw that the efforts of her brother to entertain his guest were more than his present state of health would admit of , and she rejoiced in the quiet that would now return to him . 
It was settled that Clara and Adeline , whose health La Luc thought required change of air and scene , should accompany him , attended by the faithful Peter . 
Having mounted his horse , and Clara and Adeline being ready , they took a last leave of Madame La Luc , and quitted the chateau . 
As they advanced the scenery became still more diversified ; and at length , between the receding heights , Adeline caught a glimpse of the distant waters of the Mediterranean , fading into the blue and cloudless horizon . 
She had never till now seen the ocean ; and this transient view of it roused her imagination , and made her watch impatiently for a nearer prospect . 
Such a sweep of sea and land , so varied with the gay , the magnificient , and the awful , would have fixed any eye in admiration : -- for Adeline and Clara novelty and enthusiasm added their charms to the prospect . 
In this blooming region Adeline observed that the countenances of the peasants , meagre and discontented , formed a melancholy contrast to the face of the country , and she lamented again the effects of an arbitrary government , where the bounties of nature , which were designed for all , are monopolized by a few , and the many are suffered to starve tantalized by surrounding plenty . 
On the following morning Adeline rose at an early hour , eager to indulge the new and sublime emotion with which a view of the ocean inspired her , and walked with Clara toward the hills that afforded a more extensive prospect . 
Adeline , as they returned home through a romantic glen , when her senses were no longer absorbed in the contemplation of this grand scenery , and when its images floated on her memory , only , in softened colours , repeated the following lines : La Luc in his walks met with some sensible and agreeable companions , who like himself came to Nice in search of health . 
The description which La Luc had given of this foreigner had excited the curiosity of Clara ; and the sympathy which the unfortunate feel for each other called forth the commiseration of Adeline ; for that he was unfortunate she could not doubt . 
Adeline was for a moment impelled to follow , but delicacy checked her steps , she knew how painful the presence of a stranger often is to a wounded mind , and forbore to intrude herself on his notice for the sake of only satisfying an idle curiosity . 
She turned therefore , into another path ; but the delicacy which now prevented the meeting , accident in a few days defeated , and La Luc introduced the stranger . 
Adeline received him with a soft smile , but endeavoured to restrain the expression of pity which her features had involuntarily assumed ; she wished him not to know that she observed he was unhappy . 
After this interview he no longer rejected the invitations of La Luc , but made him frequent visits , and often accompanied Adeline and Clara in their rambles . 
Adeline too derived from the similarity of their taste , and his intelligent conversation , a degree of satisfaction which contributed , with the compassion his dejection inspired , to win her confidence , and she conversed with an easy frankness rather unusual to her . 
When Adeline or Clara played , he would sit in deep reverie , and lost to every object around him , except when he fixed his eyes in mournful gaze on Adeline , and a sigh would sometimes escape him . 
One evening Adeline having excused herself from accompanying La Luc and Clara in a visit to a neighbouring family , she retired to the terrace of the garden , which overlooked the sea , and as she viewed the tranquil splendour of the setting sun , and his glories reflected on the polished surface of the waves , she touched the strings of the lute in softest harmony , her voice accompanying it with words which she had one day written after having read that rich effusion of Shakespeare 's genius , `` A Midsummer Night 's Dream . '' 
Adeline ceased to sing when she immediately heard repeated in a low voice , `` To mortal sprite such dulcet sound , Such blissful hours , were never known ! '' 
and turning her eyes whence it came , she saw M. Amand . 
She blushed and laid down the lute , which he instantly took up , and with a tremulous hand drew forth tones `` That might create a soul under the ribs of Death . '' 
Adeline , without seeming to observe his agitation , rose and leaned upon the wall , below which a group of fishermen were busily employed in drawing a net . 
Adeline was silent . 
`` The lute , '' he resumed , was her favourite instrument , and when you touched it with such melancholy expression , I saw her very image before me . 
she is gone , and never to return ! 
And you , Adeline -- you '' -- He checked his speech ; and Adeline , turning on him a look of mournful regard , observed a wildness in his eyes which alarmed her . 
`` These recollections are too painful , '' said she , in a gentle voice ; let us return to the house ; M. La Luc is probably come home . '' 
-- Adeline interrupted him . 
He stood with his hands clasped , and seemed not to hear her . 
She took up the lute to go , and passed her fingers lightly over the chords . 
said she , smiling , and standing in an attitude to depart -- `` I entreat you to play again the air I heard just now , '' said M. Amand , in a hurried voice . 
-- `` Certainly ; '' and she immediately began to play . 
He continued to weep silently till the song concluded , and it was some time before he recovered voice enough to say , `` Adeline , I can not thank you for this goodness . 
-- Adeline gave the required promise ; and M. Amand , pressing her hand , with a melancholy smile , hurried from the garden , and she saw him no more that night . 
The air , which failed to restore her venerable friend , revived Adeline , and the variety and novelty of the surrounding scenes amused her mind , though , since they could not obliterate the memory of past , or suppress the pang of present affection , they were ineffectual to dissipate the sick languor of melancholy . 
Company , by compelling her to withdraw her attention from the subject of her sorrow , afforded her a transient relief , but the violence of the exertion generally nerally left her more depressed . 
It was in the stillness of solitude , in the tranquil observance of beautiful nature , that her mind recovered its tone , and indulging the pensive inclination now become habitual to it , was soothed and fortified . 
Of all the grand objects which nature had exhibited , the ocean inspired her with the most sublime admiration She loved to wander alone on its shores , and , when she could escape so long from the duties or the forms of society , she would sit for hours on the beach watching the rolling waves , and listening to their dying murmur , till her softened fancy recalled long lost scenes , and restored the image of Theodore , when tears of despondency too often followed those of pity and regret . 
To these solitary indulgences generally succeeded calmness , and what Adeline endeavoured to believe was resignation . 
She usually rose early , and walked down to the shore to enjoy , in the cool and silent hours of the morning , the cheering beauty of nature , and inhale the pure sea-breeze . 
The blue sea , the brilliant sky , the distant fishing boats , with their white sails , and the voices of the fishermen borne at intervals on the air , were circumstances which reanimated her spirits , and in one of her rambles , yielding to that taste for poetry which had seldom forsaken her , she repeated the following lines : During several days succeeding that on which M. Amand had disclosed the cause of his melancholy , he did not visit La Luc . 
At length Adeline met him in one of her solitary rambles on the shore . 
He was pale and dejected , and seemed much agitated when he observed her ; she therefore endeavoured to avoid him , but he advanced with quickened steps and accosted her . 
He said it was his intention to leave Nice in a few days . 
Adeline tried to encourage him to hope much from time and change of place . 
`` Time will blunt the sharpest edge of sorrow , '' said she ; `` I know it from experience . '' 
Yet while she spoke , the tears in her eyes contradicted the assertion of her lips . 
`` You have been unhappy , Adeline ! 
The desponding air with which he spoke renewed her apprehension of a scene similar to the one she had lately witnessed , and she changed the subject , but he soon returned to it . 
Adeline faintly smiled . 
There is a comfort in the pity of the good such as nothing else can impart ; this must plead my excuse ; may you , Adeline , never want it . 
those tears -- '' Adeline hastily dried them . 
Adeline retired to her chamber , oppressed by her own sorrows and those of her amiable friend . 
During this interval he had not sufficient resolution to deny himself the frequent conversation of Adeline , though her presence , by reminding him of his lost wife , gave him more pain than comfort . 
When he assisted Adeline on board , his heart was too full to suffer him to say farewell ; but he stood long on the beach pursuing with his eyes her course over the waters , and waving his hand , till tears dimmed his sight . 
The breeze wafted the vessel gently from the coast , and Adeline saw herself surrounded by the undulating waves of the ocean . 
She sighed as she gazed , and her eyes filled with tears . 
`` So vanished my prospect of happiness , '' said she ; `` and my future view is like the waste of waters that surround me . '' 
Her heart was full , and she retired from observation to a remote part of the deck , where she indulged her tears as she watched the vessel cut its way through the liquid glass . 
The water was so transparent that she saw the sun-beams playing at a considerable depth , and fish of various colours glance athwart the current . 
Adeline gazed with an emotion the most sub ` ime , on the boundless expanse of waters that spread on all sides : she seemed as if launched into a new world ; the grandeur and immensity of the view astonished and overpowered her : for a moment she doubted the truth of the compass , and believed it to be almost impossible for the vessel to find its way over the pathless waters to any shore . 
And when she considered that a plank alone separated her from death , a sensation of unmixed terror superceded that of sublimity , and she hastily turned her eyes from the prospect , and her thoughts from the subject . 
Towards evening the captain , to avoid the danger of encountering a Barbary corsair , steered for the French coast , and Adeline distinguished in the gleam of the setting sun the shores of Provence , feathered with wood and green with pasturage . 
The pilot at the helm , guiding the tall vessel through the sounding waters , and one solitary sailor , leaning with crossed arms against the mast , and now and then singing parts of a mournful ditty , were all of the crew , except Adeline , that remained upon deck -- and Adeline silently watched the declining sun , which threw a saffron glow upon the waves , and on the sails , gently swelling in the breeze that was now dying away . 
She sketched the picture , but it was with a faint pencil . 
Adeline 's mind was in unison with the tranquillity of the hour : lulled by the waves , she resigned herself to a still melancholy , and sat lost in reverie . 
The present moment brought to her recollection her voyage up the Rhone , when seeking refuge from the terrors of the Marquis de Montalt , she so anxiously endeavoured to anticipate her future destiny . 
She then , as now , had watched the fall of evening and the fading prospect , and she remembered what a desolate feeling had accompanied the impression which those objects made . 
She had then no friends -- no asylum -- no certainty of escaping the pursuit of her enemy . 
Now she had found affectionate friends -- a secure retreat -- and was delivered from the terrors she then suffered -- but still she was unhappy . 
The remembrance of Theodore -- of Theodore who had loved her so truly , who had encountered and suffered so much for her sake , and of whose fate she was now as ignorant as when she traversed the Rhone , was an incessant pang to her heart . 
She seemed to be more remote than ever from the possibility of hearing of him . 
Sometimes a faint hope crossed her that he had escaped the malice of his persecutor ; but when she considered the inveteracy and power of the latter , and the heinous light in which the law regards an assault upon a superior officer , even this poor hope vanished , and left her to tears and anguish , such as this reverie , which began with a sensation of only gentle melancholy , now led to . 
She continued to muse till the moon arose from the bosom of the ocean , and shed her trembling lustre upon the waves , diffusing peace , and making silence more solemn ; beaming a soft light on the white fails , and throwing upon the waters the tall shadow of the vessel , which now seemed to glide along unopposed by any current . 
Her tears had somewhat relieved the anguish of her mind , and she again reposed in placid melancholy , when a strain of such tender and entrancing sweetness stole on the silence of the hour , that it seemed more like celestial than mortal music -- so soft , so soothing , it sunk upon her ear , that it recalled her from misery to hope and love . 
She wept again -- but these were tears which she would not have exchanged for mirth and joy . 
She looked round , but perceived neither ship or boat ; and as the undulating sounds swelled on the distant air , she thought they came from the shore . 
The links of the air thus broken , it was music rather than melody that she caught , till , the pilot gradually steering nearer the coast , she distinguished the notes of a song familiar to her ear . 
She endeavoured to recollect where she had heard it , but in vain ; yet her heart beat almost unconsciously with a something resembling hope . 
Still she listened , till the breeze again stole the sounds . 
With regret she now perceived that the vessel was moving from them , and at length they trembled faintly on the waves , sunk away at distance , and were heard no more . 
She remained upon the deck a considerable time , unwilling to relinquish the expectation of hearing them again , and their sweetness still vibrating on her fancy , and at length retired to the cabin oppressed by a degree of disappointment which the occasion did not appear to justify . 
Adeline and Clara , who anxiously watched his looks , rejoiced in their amendment ; and the fond wishes of the latter already anticipated his perfect recovery . 
The expectations of Adeline had been too often checked by disappointment to permit her now to indulge an equal degree of hope with that of her friend , yet she confided much in the effect of this voyage . 
In the evening the beauty of the hour , and the desire of exploring new scenes , invited Adeline to walk . 
Adeline took her way to the woods that rose from the margin of the sea , and climbed the wild eminence on which they hung . 
Often as she went she turned her eyes to catch between the dark foliage the blue waters of the bay , the white sail that flitted by , and the trembling gleam of the setting sun . 
When she reached the summit , and looked down over the dark tops of the woods on the wide and various prospect , she was seized with a kind of still rapture impossible to be expressed , and stood unconscious of the flight of time , till the sun had left the scene , and twilight threw its solemn shade upon the mountains . 
Adeline , resigning herself to the luxury of sweet and tender emotions , repeated the following lines : Adeline quitted the heights , and followed a narrow path that wound to the beach below : her mind was now particularly sensible to fine impressions , and the sweet notes of the nightingale amid the stillness of the woods again awakened her enthusiasm . 
The spreading dusk at length reminded Adeline of her distance from the inn , and that she had her way to find through a wild and lonely wood : she bade adieu to the syren that had so long detained her , and pursued the path with quick steps . 
Having followed it for some time , she became bewildered among the thickets , and the increasing darkness did not allow her to judge of the direction she was in . 
Her apprehensions heightened her difficulties : she thought she distinguished the voices of men at some little distance , and she increased her speed till the found herself on the sea sands over which the woods impended . 
Her breath was now exhausted -- she paused a moment to recover herself , and fearfully listened but instead of the voices of men , she heard faintly swelling in the breeze the notes of mournful music . 
-- Her heart , ever sensible to the impressions of melody , melted with the tones , and her fears were for a moment lulled in sweet enchantment . 
Surprise was soon mingled with delight when , as the sounds advanced , she distinguished the tone of that instrument , and the melody of that well known air , she had heard a few preceding evenings from the shores of Provence . 
But she had no time for conjecture -- footsteps approached , and she renewed her speed . 
She was now emerged from the darkness of the woods , and the moon , which shone bright , exhibited along the level sands the town and port in the distance . 
The steps that had followed now came up with her , and she perceived two men , but they passed in conversation without noticing her , and as they passed she was certain she recollected the voice of him who was then speaking . 
Its tones were so familiar to her ear , that she was surprised at the imperfect memory which did not suffer her to be assured by whom they were uttered . 
Another step now followed , and a rude voice called to her to stop . 
As she hastily turned her eyes she saw imperfectly by the moonlight a man in a sailor 's habit pursuing , while he renewed the call . 
Impelled by terror , she fled along the sands , but her steps were short and trembling -- those of her pursuer 's strong and quick . 
She had just strength sufficient to reach the men who had before passed her , and to implore their protection , when her pursuer came up with them , but suddenly turned into the woods on the lest , and disappeared . 
She had no breath to answer the inquiries of the strangers who supported her , till a sudden exclamation , and the sound of her own name , drew her eyes attentively upon the person who uttered them , and in the rays which shone strong upon his features , she distinguished M. Verneuil ! 
Adeline had now no doubt that it was the flute of M. Verneuil , and which had so often delighted her at Leloncourt , that she had heard on the sea . 
When they reached the inn they found La Luc under great anxiety for Adeline , in search of whom he had sent several people . 
Anxiety yielded to surprize and pleasure , when he perceived her with M. Verneuil , whose eyes beamed with unusual animation on seeing Clara . 
The woods that Adeline had traversed formed a part of his domain , which extended almost to the inn ; but he insisted that his carriage should take his guests to the chateau , and departed to give orders for their reception . 
The presence of M. Verneuil , and the kindness of his friend , gave to La Luc an unusual flow of spirits ; he conversed with a degree of vigour and liveliness to which he had long been unaccustomed , and the smile of satisfaction that Clara gave to Adeline expressed how much she thought he was already benefited by the voyage . 
Adeline answered her look with a smile of less confidence , for she attributed his present animation to a more temporary cause . 
About half an hour after the departure of M. Mauron , a boy who served as waiter brought a message from a chevalier then at the inn , requesting permission to speak with Adeline . 
The man who had pursued her along the sands instantly occurred to her , and she scarcely doubted that the stranger was some person belonging to the Marquis de Montalt , perhaps the Marquis himself , though that he should have discovered her accidentally , in so obscure a place , and so immediately upon her arrival , seemed very improbable . 
With trembling lips , and a countenance pale as death , she inquired the name of the chevalier . 
La Luc asked what sort of a person he was ; but the boy , who understood little of the art of describing , gave such a confused account of him , that Adeline could only learn he was not large , but of the middle stature . 
This circumstance , however , convincing her it was not the Marquis de Montalt who desired to see her , she asked whether it would be agreeable to La Luc to have the stranger admitted . 
Adeline sat in trembling expectation till the door opened , and Louis de la Motte entered the room . 
He advanced with an embarrassed and melancholy air , though his countenance had been enlightened with a momentary pleasure when he first beheld Adeline -- Adeline , who was still the idol of his heart . 
After the first salutations were over , all apprehensions of the Marquis being now dissipated , she inquired when Louis had seen Monsieur and Madame La Motte . 
He looked as if he wished to be informed with whom Adeline now was ; but as this was a subject upon which it was impossible she could speak in the presence of La Luc , she led the conversation to general topics , after having said that Monsieur and Madame La Motte were well when she left them . 
Louis spoke little , and often looked anxiously at Adeline , while his mind seemed labouring under strong oppression . 
She observed this , and recollecting the declaration he had made her on the morning of his departure from the Abbey , she attributed his present embarrassment to the effect of a passion yet unsubdued , and did not appear to notice it . 
After he had sat near a quarter of an hour , under a struggle of feelings which he could neither conquer or conceal , he rose to leave the room , and as he passed Adeline , said , in a low voice , `` Do permit me to speak with you alone for five minutes . '' 
She hesitated in some confusion , and then saying there were none but friends present , begged he would be seated . 
He said this with a look that surprized her ; and having ordered candles in another room , she went thither . 
-- `` I am , '' said Adeline ; `` M. la Motte has informed you '' -- `` No , '' replied Louis , with a deep sigh , `` not my father . '' 
Could you know , lovely Adeline , what I have suffered ! '' 
-- `` I understood you had something of importance to say , Sir , '' said Adeline ; `` you must excuse me if I remind you that I have not many moments to spare . '' 
, said Adeline , with quickness . 
`` I entreat you to keep me no longer in suspence , '' said Adeline , who had a wild idea that it was Theodore he would speak of . 
-- I conjure you tell me the worst at once , '' said she , in a voice of agony . 
faintly articulated Adeline , `` he lives then ! '' 
cried Adeline , trembling violently ; `` If he is living you can not tell me worse than my fears suggest ; I entreat you , therefore , not to hesitate . '' 
`` I have long feared so , Sir , '' said Adeline , in a voice of forced composure ; `` you have something more terrible than this to relate , and I again intreat you will explain yourself . '' 
At this confirmation of her fears a death-like paleness diffused itself over the countenance of Adeline ; she sat motionless , and attempted to sigh , but seemed almost suffocated . 
Terrified at her situation , and expecting to see her faint , Louis would have supported her , but with her hand she waved him from her , and was unable to speak . 
He now called for assistance , and La Luc and Clara , with M. Verneuil , informed of Adeline 's indisposition , were quickly by her side . 
At the sound of their voices she looked up , and seemed to recollect herself , when uttering a heavy sigh she burst into tears . 
La Luc rejoiced to see her weep , encouraged her tears , which , after some time , relieved her , and when she was able to speak , she desired to go back to La Luc 's parlour . 
Louis attended her thither ; when she was better he would have withdrawn , but La Luc begged he would stay . 
-- `` This gentleman , '' said Adeline , who had now recollected her dissipated thoughts , `` is the son of the M. La Motte , whom you may have heard me mention . '' 
-- Louis seemed shocked to be declared the son of a man that had once acted so unworthily towards Adeline , who , instantly perceiving the pain her words occasioned , endeavoured to soften their effect by saying that La Motte had saved her from imminent danger , and had afforded her an asylum for many months . 
Adeline sat in a state of dreadful solitude to know the particulars of Theodore 's situation , yet could not acquire courage to renew the subject in the presence of La Luc ; she ventured , however , to ask Louis if his own regiment was quartered in the town . 
`` We are lately come from thence , '' said Adeline ; `` may I ask to what part of Savoy you are going ? '' 
said Adeline , in some surprize . 
-- `` I do indeed , '' said Adeline . 
exclaimed Adeline -- `` is it possible that Theodore Peyrou is a relation of M. La Luc ! '' 
said Adeline , in a trembling voice , `` your son ! '' 
-- The astonishment and anguish depictured on her countenance increased the apprehensions of this unfortunate father , and he renewed his question . 
But Adeline was totally unable to answer him ; and the distress of Louis , on thus unexpectedly discovering the father of his unhappy friend , and knowing that it was his task to disclose the fate of his son , deprived him for some time of all power of utterance , and La Luc and Clara , whose fears were every instant heightened by this dreadful silence , continued to repeat their questions . 
At length a sense of the approaching sufferings of the good La Luc overcoming every other feeling , Adeline recovered strength of mind sufficient to try to soften the intelligence Louis had to communicate , and to conduct Clara to another room . 
Here she collected resolution to tell her , and with much tender consideration , the circumstances of her brother 's situation , concealing only her knowledge of his sentence being already pronounced . 
This relation necessarily included the mention of their attachment , and in the friend of her heart Clara discovered the innocent cause of her brother 's destruction . 
Adeline also learned the occasion of that circumstance which had contributed to keep her ignorant of Theodore 's relationship to La Luc ; she was told the former had taken the name of Peyrou , with an estate which had been left him about a year before by a relation of his mother 's upon that condition . 
In the few and interrupted interviews which had been allowed them at Caux , Theodore had mentioned his family to Adeline only in general terms , and thus , when they were so suddenly separated , had , without designing it , left her in ignorance of his father 's name and place of residence . 
The sacredness and delicacy of Adeline 's grief , which had never permitted her to mention the subject of it even to Clara , had since contributed to deceive her . 
The distress of Clara , on learning the situation of her brother , could endure no restraint ; Adeline , who had commanded her feelings so as to impart this intelligence with tolerable composure , only by a strong effort of mind , was now almost overwhelmed by her own and Clara 's accumulated suffering . 
We now return to the Marquis de Montalt , who having seen La Motte safely lodged in the prison of D -- y , and learning the trial would not come on immediately , had returned to his villa on the borders of the forest , where he expected to hear news of Adeline . 
It had been his intention to follow his servants to Lyons ; but he now determined to wait a few days for letters , and he had little doubt that Adeline , since her flight had been so quickly purfued , would be overtaken , and probably before she could reach that city . 
In this expectation he had been miserably disappointed ; for his servants informed him , that though they traced her thither , they had neither been able to follow her route beyond , nor to discover her at Lyons . 
This escape she probably owed to having embarked on the Rhone , for it does not appear that the Marquis 's people thought of seeking her on the course of that river . 
Theodore at length communicated the chief subject of his concern to Louis , who discovered , with inexpressible grief , that it was Adeline whom the Marquis had thus cruelly persecuted , and Adeline for whose sake the generous Theodore was about to suffer . 
He eagerly inquired where Adeline then resided . 
The Marquis was , however , already set off for Paris , where he had been summoned to appear at the approaching trial of La Motte ; and Louis , yet ignorant of the late transactions at the Abbey , returned to the prison , where he endeavoured to forget that Theodore was the favoured rival of his love , and to remember him only as the defender of Adeline . 
The letters of Theodore had indeed been intercepted by order of the Marquis , who , in the hope of discovering the asylum of Adeline , had opened and afterwards deroyed them . 
Louis , who , during the journey , proved the goodness of his disposition by the delicate attentions he paid this unhappy party , concealed his observation of the decline of La Luc , and , to support Adeline 's spirits , endeavoured to convince her that her apprehensions on this subject were groundless . 
Her spirits did indeed require support , for she was now within a few miles of the town that contained Theodore ; and while her increasing perturbation almost overcome her , she yet tried to appear composed . 
When the carriage entered the town , she cast a timid and anxious glance from the window in search of the prison ; but having passed through several streets without perceiving any building which corresponded with her idea of that she looked for , the coach stopped at the inn . 
Louis pressed his hand without speaking , and hastened back for Adeline and Clara , who were already in the passage . 
Adeline and Clara united in entreating that he would compose himself , and take some refreshment , and Louis urging the necessity of preparing Theodore for the interview , prevailed with him to delay it till his son should be informed of his arrival , and immediately quitted the inn for the prison of his friend . 
Clara on the bosom of Adeline , who set in calm but deep distress , yielded to the violence of her grief . 
Adeline wept with her friend for some time in silence ; and then attempted to persuade her that La Luc was not so ill as she apprehended . 
Adeline knowing that La Luc 's distress would be heightened by the observance of his daughter 's , and that indulgence would only encrease its poignancy , endeavoured to rouse her to an exertion of fortitude by urging the necessity of commanding her emotion in the presence of her father . 
His voice was again interrupted by sobs ; and Louis , who had been fearful of acquainting him at the same time of the arrival of La Luc , and the discovery of Adeline , now judged it proper to administer the cordial of this latter intelligence . 
When his first emotions subsided , `` I will not repine , '' said he ; `` since I know that Adeline is preserved , and that I shall once more see my father , I will endeavour to die with resignation . '' 
He enquired if La Luc was there in the prison ; and was told he was at the inn with Clara and Adeline . 
`` Adeline ! 
Is Adeline there too ! 
I must never see her more : this is no place for Adeline . '' 
Again he relapsed into an agony of distress -- and again repeated a thousand questions concerning Adeline , till he was reminded by Louis that his father was impatient to see him -- when , shocked that he had so long detained his friend , he entreated him to conduct La Luc to the prison , and endeavoured to recollect fortitude for the approaching interview . 
When Louis returned to the inn La Luc was still in his chamber , and Clara quitting the room to call him , Adeline seized with trembling impatience the opportunity to enquire more particularly concerning Theodore , than the chose to do in the presence of his unhappy sister . 
Lewis represented him to be much more tranquil than he really was : Adeline was somewhat soothed by the account ; and her tears , hitherto restrained , flowed silently and fast , till La Luc appeared . 
Stay with your friend , my dear ; she has need of consolation . '' 
When La Luc was gone , Adeline , unable longer to struggle against the force of grief , retired to her chamber and her bed . 
But the appearance of resignation which Theodore attained always vanished when he reflected that he was going to leave his father a prey to grief , and his beloved Adeline for ever . 
When La Luc was about to depart he again mentioned her . 
`` Afflicting as an interview must be in our present circumstances , '' said he , I can not bear the thought of quitting the world without seeing her once again ; yet I know not how to ask her to encounter , for my sake , the misery of a parting scene . 
Tell her that my thoughts never , for a moment , leave her ; that '' -- La Luc interrupted , and assured him , that since he so much wished it , he should see her , though a meeting could serve only to heighten the mutual anguish of a final separation . 
She added , what did not contribute to raise his spirits , that Adeline was so much indisposed by her grief for the situation of Theodore , and the sufferings of La Luc , that she dreaded the consequence . 
It has been seen that the passion of young La Motte had suffered no abatement from time or absence ; on the contrary , the persecution and the dangers which had pursued Adeline awakened all his tenderness , and drew her nearer to his heart . 
When he had discovered that Theodore loved her , and was beloved again , he experienced all the anguish of jealousy and disappointment ; for though she had forbade him to hope , he found it too painful an effort to obey her , and had secretly cherished the flame which he ought to have stisled . 
The attachment which Theodore had testified towards Adeline even endeared him to Louis , when he had recovered from the first shock of disappointment , and that conquest over jealousy which originated in principle , and was pursued with difficulty , became afterwards his pride and his glory . 
When , however , he again saw Adeline -- saw her in the mild dignity of sorrow more interesting than ever -- saw her , though sinking beneath its pressure , yet tender and solicitous to soften the afflictions of those around her -- it was with the utmost difficulty he preserved his resolution , and forbore to express the sentiments she inspired . 
When he farther considered that her acute sufferings arose from the strength of her affection , he more than ever wished himself the object of a heart capable of so tender a regard , and Theodore in prison and in chains was a momentary object of envy . 
In the morning , when La Luc arose from short and disturbed slumbers , he found Louis , Clara , and Adeline , whom indisposition could not prevent from paying him this testimony of respect and affection , assembled in the parlour of the inn to see him depart . 
-- Adeline immediately retired to her chamber which she was too ill to quit that day . 
Of quick and inflammable passions , he had observed the beauty of Adeline with an eye of no common regard , and he resolved to spare the life of La Motte upon no other condition than the sacrifice of this unfortunate girl . 
La Motte had neither resolution or virtue sufficient to reject the terms -- the jewels were restored , and he consented to betray the innocent Adeline . 
But as he was too well acquainted with her heart to believe that she would easily be won to the practice of vice , and as he still felt a degree of pity and tenderness for her , he endeavoured to prevail on the Marquis to forbear precipitate measures , and to attempt gradually to undermine her principles by seducing her affections . 
He approved and adopted this plan : the failure of his first scheme induced him to employ the strategems he afterwards pursued , and thus to multiply the misfortunes of Adeline . 
To this purpose he mentioned the circumstance of the latter having attempted to persuade his client to the murder of Adeline : he farther urged that the Marquis had lived in habits of intimacy with La Motte for several months immediately preceding his arrest , and that it was not till he had disappointed the designs of his accuser , by conveying beyond his reach the unhappy object of his vengeance , that the Marquis had thought proper to charge La Motte with the crime for which he stood indicted . 
To this nothing was replied on the part of the Marquis ; for as his conduct on this point had been subservient to his designs on Adeline , he could not justify it but by exposing schemes which would betray the darkness of his character , and invalidate his cause . 
Adeline , mean while , continued at Vaceau in a state of anxiety too powerful for her long-agitated frame , and the illness in consequence of this , confined her almost wholly to her chamber . 
Sometimes she ventured to flatter herself with a hope that the journy of La Luc would be successful : but these short and illusive intervals of comfort served only to heighten , by contrast , the despondency that succeeded , and in the alternate extremes of feeling the experienced a state more torturing than that produced either by the sharp sting of unexpected calamity , or the sullen pain of settled despair . 
When she was well enough she came down to the parlour to converse with Louis , who brought her frequent accounts of Theodore , and who passed every moment he could snatch from the duty of his profession in endeavours to support and console his afflicted friends . 
Adeline and Theodore , both looked to him for the little comfort allotted them , for he brought them intelligence of each other , and whenever he appeared a transient melancholy kind of pleasure played round their hearts . 
To Adeline he spoke chiefly of the fortitude and resignation of his friend , not however forgetting to mention the tender affection he constantly expressed for her . 
Accustomed to derive her sole consolation from the presence of Louis , and to observe his unwearied friendship towards him whom she so truly loved , she found her esteem for him ripen into gratitude , and her regard daily increase . 
Adeline was at her chamber window when the carriage drew up to the inn ; she saw him alight , and with feeble steps , supported by Peter , enter the house . 
From the languor of his air she drew no favourable omen , and , almost sinking under the violence of her emotion , she went to meet him . 
Clara was already with her father when Adeline entered the room . 
She approached him , but , dreading to receive from his lips a confirmation of the misfortune his countenance seemed to indicate , she looked expressively at him and sat down , unable to speak the question she would have asked . 
He held out his hand to her in silence , sunk back in his chair , and seemed to be fainting under oppression of heart . 
His manner confirmed all her fears ; at this dreadful conviction her senses failed her , and she sat motionless and stupified . 
Adeline was the first who recovered sufficient recollection to notice the extreme languor of La Luc , and attend to his support . 
She ordered him refreshments , and entreated he would retire to his bed and suffer her to send for a phycian ; adding , that the fatigue he had suffered made repose absolutely necessary . 
Louis endeavoured to persuade him to defer his visit till the morning , and Adeline and Clara joined their entreaties with his , but La Luc determined to go that night . 
Adeline ! 
-- Adeline looked impatient , and attempted to speak . 
When he withdrew , Adeline told Louis , what was indeed unnecessary , the event of La Luc 's journey . 
`` I own , '' continued she , `` that I had sometimes suffered myself to hope , and I now feel this calamity with double force . 
The change was so obvious , that Louis could not deny it , but he endeavoured to sooth her apprehension by ascribing this alteration , in a great measure , to the temporary fatigue of travelling . 
Adeline declared her resolution of accompanying La Luc to take leave of Theodore in the morning . 
`` I know not how I shall support the interview , '' said she ; `` but to see him once more is a duty I owe both to him and myself . 
Theodore received it with more composure than he had expected ; but he asked , with impatience , why he did not see his father and Adeline , and on being informed that indisposition withheld them , his imagination seized on the worst possibility , and suggested that his father was dead . 
It was a considerable time before Louis could convince him of the contrary , and that Adeline was not dangerously ill ; when , however , he was assured that he should see them in the morning , he became more tranquil . 
While they waited for Adeline he spoke little , and seemed struggling to attain the fortitude necessary to support him through the approaching scene . 
Adeline not appearing , he at length sent to hasten her , and was told she had been ill , but was recovering . 
She had indeed passed a night of such agitation , that her frame had sunk under it , and she was now endeavouring to recover strength and composure sufficient to sustain her in this dreadful hour . 
Every moment that brought her nearer to it had increased her emotion , and the apprehension of being prevented seeing Theodore had alone enabled her to struggle against the united pressure of illness and grief . 
She now , with Clara , joined La Luc , who advanced as they entered the room , and took a hand of each in silence . 
Louis supported Adeline when she alighted , she was scarcely able to walk , and with trembling steps she followed La Luc , whom the keeper led towards that part of the prison where his son was confined . 
As the warder unlocked the door , the harsh grating of the key shocked Adeline but in the next moment she was in the presence of Theodore , who sprung to meet her , and caught her in his arms before she sunk to the ground . 
As her head reclined on his shoulder , he again viewed that countenance so dear to him , which had so often lighted rapture in his heart , and which though pale and inanimate as it now was , awakened him to momentary delight . 
When at length she unclosed her eyes , she fixed them in long and mournful gaze upon Theodore , who pressing her to his heart could answer her only with a smile of mingled tenderness and despair ; the tears he endeavoured to restrain trembled in his eyes , and he forgot for a time every thing but Adeline . 
La Luc , who had seated himself at the foot of the bed , seemed unconscious of what passed around him , and entirely absorbed in his own grief ; but Clara , as she clapsed the hand of her brother , and hung weeping on his arm , expressed aloud all the anguish of her heart , and at length recalled the attention of Adeline , who in a voice scarcely audible entreated she would spare her father . 
Her words roused Theodore , and supporting Adeline to a chair , he turned to La Luc . 
Adeline breathed a heavy sigh , and continued to weep . 
`` Be comforted , my love , we part but for a time , '' said Theodore as he kissed the tears from her cheek ; and uniting her hand with that of his father 's , he earnestly recommended her to his protection . 
`` Receive her , '' added he , as the most precious legacy I can bequeath ; consider her as your child . 
She will console you when I am gone , she will more than supply the loss of your son . '' 
La Luc assured him that he did now , and should continue to , regard Adeline as his daughter . 
Theodore gazed , with a distracted countenance , alternately on his father , on Clara , and on Adeline , whom he pressed to his throbbing heart , and their tears flowed together . 
Yet once again -- once more , '' continued he , pressing her cheek , but it was insensible and cold as marble . 
Adeline raised her head , and perceiving who entered , it again sunk on the bosom of Theodore . 
`` We must go , '' said he : `` Adeline , my love , exert yourself -- Clara -- my children , let us depart . 
Adeline raised her head , and , trembling between hope and fear , looked at Louis as if she would have searched his soul . 
He smiled cheerfully upon her . 
she exclaimed , suddenly re-animated -- `` He lives ! 
-- She said no more , but ran to La Luc , who sunk fainting in his chair , while Theodore and Clara with one voice called on Louis to relieve them from the tortures of suspence . 
Adeline forbore to express this , but Clara without scruple lamented the possibility that her brother might yet be taken from them , and all their joy be turned to sorrow . 
A look from Adeline checked her . 
When they were sufficiently composed , he informed them that the contents of Madame De la Motte 's letter obliged him to set out for Paris immediately ; and that the intelligence he had to communicate intimately concerned Adeline , who would undoubtedly judge it necessary to go thither also as soon as her health would permit . 
On the following day the warder complied with his request , and the surprise of La Motte may be imagined when , in the stronger light of his apartment , he distinguished the countenance of the man from whose hands he had formerly received Adeline . 
When she was gone , he told De la Motte that he understood he was confined at the suit of the Marquis de Montalt . 
La Motte listened to this relation in astonishment ; when he knew that Adeline was the daughter of the Marquis , and remembered the crime to which he had once devoted her , his frame thrilled with horror . 
He now took up the story , and added an account of what had passed at the Abbey between the Marquis and himself concerning a design of the former upon the life of Adeline ; and urged , as a proof of the present prosecution originating in malice , that it had commenced immediately after he had effected her escape from the Marquis . 
He concluded , however , with saying , that as the Marquis had immediately sent his people in pursuit of her , it was possible she might yet have fallen a victim to his vengeance . 
The court suspended the sentence of the latter , ordered that the Marquis should be put under immediate arrest , and that Adeline the -LRB- name given by her foster mother -RRB- , and Jean d'Aunoy should be sought for . 
The Marquis was accordingly seized at the suit of the crown , and put under confinement till Adeline should appear , or proof could be obtained that she died by his order , and till d'Aunoy should confirm or destroy the evidence of De la Motte . 
Madame , who at length obtained intelligence of her son 's residence from the town where he was formerly stationed , had acquainted him with his father 's situation , and the proceedings of the trial ; and as she believed that Adeline , if she had been so fortunate as to escape the Marquis 's pursuit , was still in Savoy , she desired Louis would obtain leave of absence , and bring her to Paris , where her immediate presence was requisite to substantiate the evidence , and probably to save the life of La Motte . 
On the receipt of her letter , which happened on the morning appointed for the execution of Theodore , Louis went immediately to the commanding officer to petition for a respite till the king 's further pleasure should be known . 
On learning the purpose of Madame de la Motte 's letter , Adeline saw the necessity of her immediate departure for Paris . 
The life of La Motte , who had more than saved her 's , the life , perhaps , of her beloved Theodore , depended on the testimony she should give . 
And she who had so lately been sinking under the influence of illness and despair , who could scarcely raise her languid head , or speak but in the faintest accents , now reanimated with hope , and invigorated by a sense of the importance of the business before her , prepared to perform a rapid journey of some hundred miles . 
Theodore tenderly intreated that she would so far consider her health as to delay this journey for a few days ; but with a smile of enchanting tenderness she assured him , that she was now too happy to be ill , and that the same cause which would confirm her happiness would confirm her health . 
So strong was the effect of hope upon her mind now , that it succeeded to the misery of despair , that it overcame the shock she suffered on believing herself a daughter of the Marquis , and every other painful reflection . 
She did not even foresee the obstacle that circumstance might produce to her union with Theodore , should he at last be permitted to live . 
It was settled that she should set off for Paris in a few hours with Louis , and attended by Peter . 
When the time of her departure arrived the spirits of Adeline again forsook her , and the illusions of joy disappeared . 
She no longer beheld Theodore as one respited from death , but took leave of him with a mournful pre-sentiment that she should see him no more . 
So strongly was this presage impressed upon her mind , that it was long before she could summons resolution to bid him farewel ; and when she had done so , and even left the apartment , she returned to take of him a last look . 
As she was once more quitting the room , her melancholy imagination represented Theodore at the place of execution , pale and convulsed in death ; she again turned her lingering eyes upon him ; but fancy affected her sense , for she thought as she now gazed that his countenance changed , and assumed a ghastly hue . 
All her resolution vanished , and such was the anguish of her heart , that she resolved to defer her journey till the morrow , though she must by this means lose the protection of Louis , whose impatience to meet his father would not suffer the delay . 
The triumph of passion , however , was transient ; soothed by the indulgence she promised herself , her grief subsided , reason resumed its influence ; she again saw the necessity of her immediate departure , and recollected sufficient resolution to submit . 
La Luc would have accompanied her for the purpose of again soliciting the King in behalf of his son , had not the extreme weakness and lassitude to which he was reduced made travelling impracticable . 
At length , Adeline , with a heavy heart , quitted Theodore , notwithstanding his entreaties , that she would not undertake the journey in her present weak state , and was accompanied by Clara and La Luc to the inn . 
Should a pardon be granted to Theodore La Luc designed to fetch Adeline from Paris ; but should this be refused , she was to return with Peter . 
He bade her adieu with a father 's kindness , which she repaid with a filial affection , and in her last words conjured him to attend to the recovery of his health : the languid smile he assumed seemed to express that her solicitude was vain , and that he thought his health past recovery . 
Thus Adeline quitted the friends so justly dear to her , and so lately found , for Paris , where she was a stranger , almost without protection , and compelled to meet a father , who had pursued her with the utmost cruelty , in a public court of justice . 
The carriage in leaving Vaceau passed by the prison ; she threw an eager look towards it as she passed ; its heavy black walls , and narrow-grated windows , seemed to frown upon her hopes -- but Theodore was there , and leaning from the window , she continued to gaze upon it till an abrupt turning in the street concealed it from her view . 
She then sunk back in the carriage , and yielding to the melancholy of her heart , wept in silence . 
He , however , severely repented that he had indulged the hasty spirit of revenge which had urged him to the prosecution of La Motte , and had thus unexpectedly involved him in a situation dangerous -- if not fatal -- since if Adeline could not be found he would be concluded guilty of her death . 
La Motte mean while awaited with trembling impatience the arrival of his son , when he should be relieved , in some degree , from his uncertainty concerning Adeline . 
On his appearance he rested his only hope of life , since the evidence against him would lose much of its validity from the confirmation she would give of the bad character of his prosecutor ; and if the Parliament even condemned La Motte , the clemency of the King might yet operate in his favour . 
Adeline arrived at Paris after a journey of several days , during which she was chiefly supported by the delicate attentions of Louis , whom she pitied and esteemed , though she could not love . 
She was immediately visited at the hotel by Madame La Motte : the meeting was affecting on both sides . 
A sense of her past conduct excited in the latter an embarrassment which the delicacy and goodness of Adeline would willingly have spared her ; but the pardon solicited was given with so much sincerity , that Madame gradually became composed and re-assured . 
This forgiveness , however , could not have been thus easily granted , had Adeline believed her former conduct was voluntary ; a conviction of the restraint and terror under which Madame had acted , alone induced her to excuse the past . 
In this first meeting they forbore dwelling on particular subjects ; Madame La Motte proposed that Adeline should remove from the hotel to her lodgings near the Chatelet , and Adeline , for whom a residence at a public hotel was very improper , gladly accepted the offer . 
Madame there gave her a circumstantial account of La Motte 's situation , and concluded with saying , that as the sentence of her husband had been suspended till some certainty could be obtained concerning the late criminal designs of the Marquis , and as Adeline could confirm the chief part of La Motte 's testimony , it was probable that now she was arrived the Court would proceed immediately . 
She now learnt the full extent of her obligation to La Motte ; for she was till now ignorant that when he sent her from the forest he saved her from death . 
Her horror of the Marquis , whom she could not bear to consider as her father , and her gratitude to her deliverer , redoubled , and she became impatient to give the testimony so necessary to the hopes of her preserver . 
Madame then said , she believed it was not too late to gain admittance that night to the Chatelet ; and as she knew how anxiously her husband wished to see Adeline , she entreated her consent to go thither . 
Adeline , though much harassed and fatigued , complied . 
When Louis returned from M. Nemour 's , his father 's advocate , whom he had hastened to inform of her arrival , they all set out for the Chatelet . 
The view of the prison into which they were now admitted so forcibly recalled to Adeline 's mind the situation of Theodore , that she with difficulty supported herself to the apartment of La Motte . 
When he saw her a gleam of joy passed over his countenance ; but again relapsing into despondency , he looked mournfully at her , and then at Louis , and groaned deeply . 
Adeline , in whom all remembrance of his former cruelty was lost in his subsequent kindness , expressed her thankfulness for the life he had preserved , and her anxiety to serve him , in warm and repeated terms . 
But her gratitude evidently distressed him ; instead of reconciling him to himself , it seemed to awaken a remembrance of the guilty designs he had once assisted , and to strike the pangs of conscience deeper in his heart . 
Endeavouring to conceal his emotions , he entered on the subject of his present danger , and informed Adeline what testimony would be required of her on the trial . 
After above an hour 's conversation with La Motte , she returned to the lodgings of Madame , where , languid and ill , she withdrew to her chamber , and tried to obliviate her anxieties in sleep . 
The Parliament which conducted the trial re-assembled in a few days after the arrival of Adeline , and the two remaining witnesses of the Marquis , on whom he now rested his cause against , La Motte , appeared . 
She was led trembling into the Court , where almost the first object that met her eyes was the Marquis de Montalt , whom she now beheld with an emotion entirely new to her , and which was strongly tinctured with horror . 
When du Bosse saw her he immediately swore to her identity ; his testimony was confirmed by her manner ; for on perceiving him she grew pale , and a universal tremor seized her . 
Adeline , when called upon , gave her little narrative with clearness and precision ; and Peter , who had conveyed her from the Abbey , supported the testimony she offered . 
He was re-conducted to prison ; but Adeline , who , extremely shocked by his sentence , was much indisposed , received orders to remain in the Court during the examination of d'Aunoy . 
He was confronted with Adeline and with du Bosse , and ordered to confess all he knew concerning this mysterious affair , or to undergo the torture . 
On hearing this Adeline grew faint ; she remembered the MS. she had found , together with the extraordinary circumstances that had attended the discovery ; every nerve thrilled with horror , and raising her eyes she saw the countenance of the Marquis overspread with the livid paleness of guilt . 
She endeavoured , however , to arrest her fleeting spirits while the man proceeded in his confession . 
Adeline , no longer able to struggle with the tumult of emotions that now rushed upon her heart , uttered a deep sigh and fainted away . 
She was carried from the Court , and , when the confusion occasioned by this circumstance subsided , Jean d'Aunoy went on . 
He related , that on the death of his wife , Adeline was placed in a convent , from whence she was afterwards removed to another , where the Marquis had destined her to receive the vows . 
That her determined rejection of them had occasioned him to resolve upon her death , and that she had accordingly been removed to the house on the heath . 
D'Aunoy added , that by the Marquis 's order he had misled du Bosse with a false story of her birth . 
Having after some time discovered that his comrades had deceived him concerning her death , d'Aunoy separated from them in enmity ; but they unanimously determined to conceal her escape from the Marquis that they might enjoy the recompence of their supposed crime . 
Some months subsequent to this period , however , d'Aunoy received a letter from the Marquis , charging him with the truth , and promising him a large reward if he would confess where he had placed Adeline . 
In consequence of this letter he acknowledged that she had been given into the hands of a stranger ; but who he was , or where he lived , was not known . 
The late Marquis de Montalt , the father of Adeline , received from his ancestors a patrimony very inadequate to support the splendour of his rank ; but he had married the heiress of an illustrious family , whose fortune amply supplied the deficiency of his own . 
But though terror was roused for a transient moment , neither pity or repentance succeeded , since when the discovery of Adeline 's birth excited apprehension for his own life , he did not hesitate to repeat the crime , and would again have stained his soul with human blood . 
This discovery was effected by means of a seal , bearing the arms of her mother 's family , which was impressed on the note his servant had found , and had delivered to him at Caux . 
Knowing that his life must pay the forfeiture of his crime , should Adeline ever obtain a knowledge of her birth , and not daring again to confide in the secrecy of a man who had once deceived him , he resolved , after some deliberation , on her death . 
He immediately set out for the Abbey , and gave those directions concerning her which terror for his own safety , still more than a desire of retaining her estates , suggested . 
As the history of the seal which revealed the birth of Adeline is rather remarkable , it may not be amiss to mention , that it was stolen from the Marquis , together with a gold watch , by Jean d'Aunoy : the watch was soon disposed of , but the seal had been kept as a pretty trinket by his wife , and at her death went with Adeline among her cloths to the convent . 
Adeline had carefully preserved it , because it had once belonged to the woman whom she believed to have been her mother . 
We now return to the course of the narrative , and to Adeline , who was carried from the court to the lodging of Madame De la Motte . 
Madame was , however , at the Chatalet with her husband , suffering all the distress which the sentence pronounced against him might be supposed to inflict . 
The feeble frame of Adeline , so long harassed by grief and fatigue , almost sunk under the agitation which the discovery of her birth excited . 
Her feelings on this occasion were too complex to be analysed . 
From an orphan , subsisting on the bounty of others , without family , with few friends , and pursued by a cruel and powerful enemy , she saw herself suddenly transformed to the daughter of an illustrious house , and the heiress of immense wealth . 
On the return of Madame La Motte Adeline endeavoured , as usual , to suppress her own emotions , that she might sooth the affliction of her friend . 
She related what had passed in the courts after the departure of La Motte , and thus excited , even in the sorrowful heart of Madame , a momentary gleam of satisfaction . 
Adeline determined to recover , if possible , the manuscript . 
On inquiry she learned that La Motte , in the confusion of his departure , had left it among other things at the Abbey . 
This circumstance much distressed her , the more so because she believed its appearance might be of importance on the approaching trial : she determined , however , if she should recover her rights , to have the manuscript sought for . 
After a silent and melancholy supper they separated for the night , and Adeline , in the solitude of her chamber , had leisure to meditate on the discoveries of this eventful day . 
The sufferings of her dead father , such as she had read them recorded by his own hand , pressed most forcibly to her thoughts . 
The narrative had formerly so much affected her heart , and interested her imagination , that her memory now faithfully reflected each particular circumstance there disclosed . 
But when she considered that she had been in the very chamber where her parent had suffered , where even his life had been sacrificed , and that she had probably seen the very dagger , seen it stained with rust , the rust of blood ! 
by which he had fallen , the anguish and horror of her mind defied all control . 
On the following day Adeline received orders to prepare for the prosecution of the Marquis de Montalt , which was to commence as soon as the requisite witnesses could be collected . 
Among these were the Abbess of the Convent , who had received her from the hands of d'Aunoy ; Madame La Motte , who was present when Du Bosse compelled her husband to receive Adeline ; and Peter , who had not only been witness to this circumstance , but who had conveyed her from the Abbey that she might escape the designs of the Marquis . 
When La Motte was informed of the discovery of Adeline 's birth , and that her father had been murdered at the Abbey of St. Clair , he instantly remembered , and mentioned to his wife , the skeleton he found in the stone room leading to the subterranean cells . 
Madame , however , determined not to shock Adeline with the mention of this circumstance till it should be necessary to declare it on the trial . 
As the time of this trial drew near the distress and agitation of Adeline increased . 
Though justice demanded the life of the murderer , and though the tenderness and pity which the idea of her father called forth urged her to avenge his death , she could not , without horror , consider herself as the instrument of dispensing that justice which would deprive a fellow being of existence ; and there were times when she wished the secret of her birth had never been revealed . 
If this sensibility was , in her peculiar circumstances , a weakness , it was at least an amiable one , and as such deserves to be reverenced . 
The accounts she received from Vaceau of the health of M. La Luc did not contribute to tranquillize her mind . 
The symptoms described by Clara seemed to say that he was in the last stage of a consumption , and the grief of Theodore and herself on this occasion was expressed in her letters with the lively eloquence so natural to her . 
Adeline loved and revered La Luc for his own worth , and for the parental tenderness he had shewed her , but he was still dearer to her as the father of Theodore , and her concern for his declining state was not inferior to that of his children . 
It was increased by the reflection that she had probably been the means of shortening his life , for she too well knew that the distress occasioned him by the situation in which it had been her misfortune to involve Theodore , had shattered his frame to its present infirmity . 
When she looked round on the condition of her friends , her heart was almost overwhelmed with the prospect ; it seemed as if she was destined to involve all those most dear to her in calamity . 
With respect to La Motte , whatever were his vices , and whatever the designs in which he had formerly engaged against her , she forgot them all in the service he had finally rendered her , and considered it to be as much her duty , as she felt it to be her inclination , to intercede in his behalf . 
This , however , in her present situation , she could not do with any hope of success ; but if the suit , upon which depended the establishment of her rank , her fortune , and consequently her influence , should be decided in her favour , she determined to throw herself at the king 's feet , and , when she pleaded the cause of Theodore , ask the life of La Motte . 
A few days preceding that of the trial Adeline was informed a stranger desired to speak with her , and on going to the room where he was she found M. Vernueil . 
Her countenance expressed both surprize and satisfaction at this unexpected meeting , and she inquired , though with little expectation of an affirmative , if he had heard of M. La Luc . 
Adeline could scarcely refrain from tears at the recollection these words revived of the calamities which had occasiond this lamented change . 
M. Verneuil delivered her a packet from Clara ; as he presented it he said , `` Beside this introduction to your notice , I have a claim of a different kind , which I am proud to assert , and which will perhaps justify the permission I ask of speaking upon your affairs . '' 
-- Adeline bowed , and M. Verneuil , with a countenance expressive of the most tender solicitude , added that he had heard of the late proceeding of the parliament of Paris , and of the discoveries that so intimately concerned her . 
Adeline rose hastily and advanced towards M. Verneuil ; surprize and satisfaction re-animated her features . 
said she in a sweet and tremulous voice , `` and one whom I can welcome as a friend ? '' 
Tears trembled in her eyes ; and she received M. Verneuil 's embrace in silence . 
It was some time before her emotion would permit her to speak . 
To Adeline , who from her earliest infancy had been abandoned to strangers , a forlorn and helpless orphan ; who had never till lately known a relation , and who then found one in the person of an inveterate enemy , to her this discovery was as delightful as unexpected . 
But after struggling for some time with the various emotions that pressed upon her heart , she begged M. Verneuil permission to withdraw till she could recover composure . 
He would have taken leave , but she entreated him not to go . 
The interest which M. Verneuil took in the concerns of La Luc , which was strengthened by his increasing regard for Clara , had drawn him to Vaceau , where he was informed of the family and peculiar circumstances of Adeline . 
Adeline in a short time returned , and could then bear to converse on the subject of her family . 
M. Verneuil offered her his support and assistance , if they should be found necessary . 
Adeline 's countenance changed ; she received the picture eagerly , gazed on it for a long time in silence , and her eyes filled with tears . 
It was not the resemblance she studied , but the countenance -- the mild and beautiful countenance of her parent , whose blue eyes , full of tender sweetness , seemed bent upon her 's ; while a soft smile played on her lips ; Adeline pressed the picture to her 's , and again gazed in silent reverie . 
At length , with a deep sigh , she said , `` This surely was my mother . 
This reflection quite overcame her , and she burst into tears . 
M. Verneuil did not interrupt her grief but took her hand and sat by her without speaking till she became more composed . 
Again kissing the picture , she held it out to him with a hesitating look . 
`` No , '' said he , `` it is already with its true owner . '' 
She thanked him with a smile of ineffable sweetness , and after some conversation on the subject of the approaching trial , on which occasion she requested M. Verneuil would support her by his presence , he withdrew , having begged leave to repeat his visit on the following day . 
Adeline now opened her packet , and saw once more the well-know characters of Theodore ; for a moment she felt as if in his presence , and the conscious blush overspread her cheek ; with a trembling hand she broke the seal , and read the tenderest assurances and solicitudes of his love ; she often paused that she might prolong the sweet emotions which these assurances awakened , but while tears of tenderness stood trembling on her eyelids , the bitter recollection of his situation would return , and they fell in anguish on her bosom . 
He congratulated her , and with peculiar delicacy , on the prospects of life which were opening to her ; said every thing that might tend to animate and support her , but avoid dwelling on his own circumstances , except by expressing his sense of the zeal and kindness of his commanding officer , and adding , that he did not despair of finally obtaining a pardon . 
This hope , though but faintly expressed , and written evidently for the purpose of consoling Adeline , did not entirely fail of the desired effect . 
She yielded to its enchanting influence , and forgot for a while the many subjects of care and anxiety which surrounded her . 
Theodore said little of his father 's health ; what he did say was by no means so discouraging as the accounts of Clara , who , less anxious to conceal a truth that must give pain to Adeline , expressed , without reserve , all her apprehension and concern . 
Adeline , accompanied by M. Verneuil and Madame la Motte , appeared as the prosecutor of the Marquis de Montalt ; and d'Aunoy , du Bosse , Louis de la Motte , and several other persons , as witness in her cause . 
When she appeared before the tribunal , Adeline 's emotion surpassed all the arts of disguise , but adding to the natural dignity of her air an expression of soft timidity , and to her downcast eyes a sweet confusion , it rendered her an object still more interesting ; and she attracted the universal pity and admiration of the assembly . 
When she ventured to raise her eyes , she perceived that the Marquis was not yet in the court , and while she awaited his appearance in trembling expectation , a confused murmuring rose in a distant part of the hall . 
Her spirits now almost forsook her ; the certainty of seeing immediately , and consciously , the murderer of her father chilled her with horror , and she was with difficulty preserved from fainting . 
Several of the members arose , some left the hall , the whole place exhibited a scene of disorder , and a report at length reached Adeline that the Marquis de Montalt was dying . 
A considerable time elapsed in uncertainty ; but the confusion continued ; the Marquis did not appear ; and at Adeline 's request M. Verneuil went in quest of more positive information . 
In the last hours of life , while tortured with the remembrance of his crime , he resolved to make all the atonement that remained for him , and having swallowed the potion , he immediately sent for a confessor to take a full confession of his guilt , and two notaries , and thus established Adeline beyond dispute in the rights of her birth ; and also bequeathed her a considerable legacy . 
In consequence of these depositions she was soon after formally acknowledged as the daughter and heiress of Henry Marquis de Montalt , and the rich estates of her father were restored to her . 
She immediately threw herself at the feet of the king in behalf of Theodore and of La Motte . 
The character of the former , the cause in which he had risked his life , and the occasion of the late Marquis 's enmity towards him , were circumstances so notorious , and so forcible , that it is more than probable the monarch would have granted his pardon to a pleader less irresistible than was Adeline de Montalt . 
Theodore La Luc not only received an ample pardon , but in consideration of his gallant conduct towards Adeline , he was soon after raised to a post of considerable rank in the army . 
For La Motte , who had been condemned for the robbery on full evidence , and who had been also charged with the crime which had formerly compelled him to quit Paris , a pardon could not be obtained ; but at the earnest supplication of Adeline , and in consideration of the service he had finally rendered her , his sentence was softened from death to banishment . 
This indulgence , however , would have availed him little , had not the noble generosity of Adeline silenced other prosecutions that were preparing against him , and bestowed on him a sum more than sufficient to support his family in a foreign country . 
The passion which Louis had so long owned for Adeline was raised almost to adoration by her late conduct ; but he now relinquished even the faint hope which he had hitherto almost unconsciously cherished , and , since the life which was granted to Theodore rendered this sacrifice necessary , he could not repine . 
On the eve of his departure La Motte and his family took a very affecting leave of Adeline ; he left Paris for England , where it was his design to settle ; and Louis , who was eager to fly from her enchantments , set out on the same day for his regiment . 
Adeline remained some time at Paris to settle her affairs , where she was introduced by M. V -- to the few and distant relations that remained of her family . 
Amand , who had so much engaged her pity and esteem at Nice . 
The lady , whose death he lamented , was of the family of de Montalt ; and the resemblance which he had traced between her features and those of Adeline , her cousin , was something more than the effect of fancy . 
The death of his elder brother had abruptly recalled him from Italy ; but Adeline had the satisfaction to observe , that the heavy melancholy which formerly oppressed him , had yielded to a sort of placid resignation , and that his countenance was often enlivened by a transient gleam of cheerfulness . 
There they were deposited with the solemn funeral pomp becoming his rank : Adeline attended as chief mourner ; and this last duty paid to the memory of her parent , she became more tranquil and resigned . 
The MS. that recorded his sufferings had been found at the Abbey , and delivered to her by M. V -- , and she preserved it with the pious enthusiasm so sacred a relique deserved . 
On her return to Paris , Theodore La Luc , who was come from Montpelier , awaited her arrival . 
The happiness of this meeting was clouded by the account he brought of his father , whose extreme danger had alone withheld him from hastening the moment he obtained his liberty to thank Adeline for the life she had preserved . 
She now received him as the friend to whom she was indebted for her preservation , and as the lover who deserved , and possessed , her tenderest affection . 
The contrast which memory drew of the past with the present , frequently drew tears of tenderness and gratitude to their eyes , and the sweet smile which seemed struggling to dispel from the countenance of Adeline those gems of sorrow , penetrated the heart of Theodore , and brought to his recollection a little song which in other circumstances he had formerly sung to her . 
He took up a lute that lay on the table , and touching the dulcet chords , accompanied it with the following words : Her affection for Theodore had induced Adeline to reject several suitors which her goodness , beauty , and wealth , had already attracted , and whom , though infinitely his superiors in point of fortune , were many of them inferior to him in family , and all of them in merit . 
The various and tumultuous emotions which the late events had called forth in the bosom of Adeline were now subsided ; but the memory of her father still tinctured her mind with a melancholy that time only could subdue ; and she refused to listen to the supplications of Theodore till the period she had prescribed for her mourning should be expired . 
The necessity of re-joining his regiment obliged him to leave Paris within the fortnight after his arrival ; but he carried with him assurance of receiving her hand soon after she should lay aside her sable habit , and departed therefore with tolerable composure . 
M. La Luc 's very precarious state was a source of incessant disquietude to Adeline , and she determined to accompany M. V -- , who was now the declared lover of Clara , to Montpelier , whither La Luc had immediately gone on the liberation of his son . 
The restoration of his happiness and the climate of Montpelier did all for the health of La Luc that his most anxious friends could wish , and he was at length so far recovered as to visit Adeline at her estate of St. Maur . 
Adeline , in the society of friends so beloved , lost the impression of that melancholy which the fate of her parent had occasioned ; she recovered all her natural vivacity ; and when she threw off the mourning habit which filial piety had required her to assume , she gave her hand to Theodore . 
`` Long , very long , may you be spared to bless your children , '' replied Adeline . 
Theodore and Adeline , who could not support the thought of a separation , endeavoured to persuade him to give up his chateau , and to reside with them in France ; but he was held by many ties to Leloncourt . 
Since La Luc would not reside in France , Theodore and Adeline , to whom the splendid gaieties that courted them at Paris were very inferior temptations to the sweet domestic pleasures and refined society which Leloncourt would afford , determined to accompany La Luc and Mon. and Madame Verneuil abroad . 
Adeline arranged her affairs so as to render her residence in France unnecessary ; and having bade an affectionate adieu to the Count and Countess D -- , and to M. Amand , who had recovered a tolerable degree of cheerfulness , she departed with her friends for Savoy . 
After a long and pleasant journey they came once more within view of the Swiss mountains , the sight of which revived a thousand interesting recollections in the mind of Adeline . 
She remembered the circumstances and the sensations under which she had first seen them -- when an orphan , flying from persecution to seek shelter among strangers , and lost to the only person on earth whom she loved -- she remembered this , and the contrast of the present moment struck with all its force upon her heart . 
The countenance of Clara brightened into smiles of the most animated delight as she drew near the beloved scenes of her infant pleasures ; and Theodore , often looking from the windows , caught with patriotic enthusiasm the magnificent and changing scenery which the receding mountains successively disclosed . 
Adeline continued to gaze upon each well-known object , and again reflecting on the vicissitudes of grief and joy , and the surprising change of fortune which she had experienced since last she saw them , her heart dilated with gratitude and complacent delight . 
She looked at Theodore , whom in these very scenes she had lamented as lost to her for ever ; who , when found again , was about to be torn from her by an ignominious death , but who now sat by her side her secure and happy husband , the pride of his family and herself ; and while the sensibility of her heart flowed in tears from her eyes , a smile of ineffable tenderness told him all she felt . 
He gently pressed her hand , and answered her with a look of love . 
Peter flew , and , while chairs and tables were placing , Clara ran for her favourite lute , the lute which had formerly afforded her such delight , and which Adeline had often touched with a melancholy expression . 
The rural pipe and tabor were placed , at Clara 's request , under the shade of her beloved acacias on the margin of the lake ; the merry notes of music sounded , Adeline led off the dance , and the mountains answered only to the strains of mirth and melody . 
Here , contemning the splendour of false happiness , and possessing the pure and rational delights of a love refined into the most tender friendship , surrounded by the friends so dear to them , and visited by a select and enlightened society -- here , in the very bosom of felicity , lived Theodore and Adeline La Luc . 
He still loved Adeline , but it was with the placid tenderness of friendship , and when , at the earnest invitation of Theodore , he visited the villa , he beheld their happiness with a satisfaction unalloyed by any emotions of envy . 
He afterwards married a lady of some fortune at Geneva , and resigning his commission in the French service , settled on the borders of the lake , and increased the social delights of Theodore and Adeline . 
