Onthe delightful margin of the Merrimac , in one of the most pleasant and beautiful situations , which that fertile and healthful part of America affords , lived Mrs. Williams , the virtuous relict of a respectable clergyman . 
She had two daughters , lovely and promising as ever parent could boast . 
Mrs. Williams 's circumstances were easy . 
She possessed a little patrimony , to which she retired , after her husband 's decease ; but a desire of preserving this for her children , and a wish to promote their advantage and enlarge their society , induced her to open a Boarding School . 
As she had an eye , no less to the social pleasure , than to the pecuniary profit of the undertaking , she admitted only seven , at a time , to the privilege of her tuition . 
To cultivate the expanding flowers , and to prune the juvenile eccentricities , which were diffeminated among these tender plants ; or , to speak without a figure , to extend and purify their ideas , to elevate and refine their affections , to govern and direct their passions , required an eye , watchful , and a hand , skilful as those of the judicious Mrs. Williams . 
While her judgment and prudence aided the useful acquisitions of the mind , a sprightly fancy and a cheerful disposition , regulated by experience and discretion , qualified her to enter , at once , with becoming dignity and condescending ease , into all their concerns ; to participate their pleasures ; while , with candour and mildness , she reproved their errors , detected their follies , and facilitated their amendment . 
As the young ladies had finished their school education , before Mrs. Williams received them to her mansion , her instructions were more especially designed to polish the mental part , to call forth the dormant virtues , to unite and arrange the charms of person and mind , to inspire a due sense of decorum and propriety , and to instil such principles of piety , morality , benevolence , prudence and economy , as might be useful through life . 
Every part of it was employed to some valuable purpose ; `` for idleness , '' Mrs. Williams observed , `` is the rust of the mind . '' 
Whatever tended to enlarge , inform , improve , or amuse , she supposed worthy their attention . 
She particularly endeavoured to domesticate them ; to turn their thoughts to the beneficial and necessary qualifications of private life ; often inculcating , that `` Nothing lovelier can be found in woman , Than to study household good ; '' and labouring to convince them of the utter insignificance and uselessness of that part of the sex , who are `` Bred only and completed to the taste Of lustful appetence ; to sing , to dance , To dress , and troll the tongue , and roll the eye . '' 
Early rising she recommended , both by precept and example . 
This , she said , would not only promote their health , but render them mistresses of many hours , which must otherwise be lost in enervating sloth and inaction . 
`` And should we , '' continued she , `` who have so much cause for exertion , thus sacrifice the best part of our time ? '' 
Another laudable practice of Mrs. Williams , was perfect regularity in the government of her pupils , and in the arrangement of their daily exercises . 
`` When , '' said she , `` we observe the order of the natural world , and admire the consistency and harmony of every part , we may hence derive a lesson , for the regulation of our conduct , in the sphere assigned to us . '' 
On these occasions , Mrs. Williams suspended the authority of the matron , that , by accustoming her pupils to familiarity in her presence , they might be free from restraint ; and , feeling perfectly easy and unawed , appear in their genuine characters . 
By this mean she had an opportunity of observing any indecorum of behaviour , or wrong bias ; which she kept in mind , till a proper time to mention , and remonstrate against it ; a method , the salutary effects of which were visible in the daily improvement of her pupils . 
The breakfast table removed , each took her needle-work , except one , who read some amusing and instructive book , for the benefit and entertainment of the rest . 
The subject was selected by Mrs. Williams , who conferred the reading upon them in rotation . 
Having resumed their occupations , the reader of the day produced some piece of her own composition , either in prose , or verse , according to her inclination , as a specimen of her genius and improvement . 
This being submitted to Mrs. Williams 's inspection , and the candid perusal and criticism of her companions ; and the subject canvassed with great freedom of opinion , they withdrew from the tasks of the day to seek that relaxation and amusement , which each preferred . 
With one voice , they most affectionately assured Mrs. Williams , that it should be their daily study to profit by her lessons ; and withdrew . 
Beingassembled , this afternoon , Mrs. Williams thus resumed her discourse . 
He , however , possessed neither leisure nor abilities `` to teach the young idea how to shoot ; '' but thought it sufficient that he gave her every advantage , which could be derived from the various schools , to which she was consigned . 
She had a brilliant fancy , and a fondness for books , which , properly directed , might have proved of great use to her . 
But , having no better principles instilled into her mind , she indulged herself in the unlimited reading of novels , and every light publication which a circulating library could furnish . 
Herpupils having taken their places , Mrs. Williams proceeded . 
`` I shallnow , '' said Mrs. Williams , `` endeavour to sketch out for you the plan of conduct , which I think will be most conducive to your honor and happiness while in a single state . 
`` Dress '' continued Mrs. Williams to her re-assembled and attentive pupils , `` is an important article of female economy . 
THE hour of departure having arrived , on Monday morning , Mrs. Williams assembled with her pupils ; when the regret , visibly depicted on every countenance , was variously expressed . 
The tear of grateful regard stole silently down the bloomy cheeks of some : others betrayed their sensibility by audible sobs , which they could not repress and all united in testifying the sense they entertained of the advantages they had received from Mrs. Williams 's tuition , the happiness they had enjoyed in each other 's society , and their determination to remember her counsels , cultivate continued friendship among themselves , and endeavour to be worthy of her 's . 
Mrs. Williams then took an affectionate leave of each one , and left them with her daughters . 
The residence of Mrs. Williams they denominated Harmony-Grove , which it ever after retained , and by which it is designated in the following selection of their letters . 
But , I trust , this alteration of appearance will have no tendency to alienate those sentiments from my heart , which I imbibed under the tuition of Mrs. Williams . 
Mrs. Williams used to say , that the dress was indicative of the mind . 
Mrs. Williams 's instructions were very seasonably interposed to impress my mind with a sense of virtue and propriety . 
Yet I find the gaiety of the town adapted to my taste ; nor does even Mrs. Williams condemn the enjoyment of its pleasures . 
I am , & c. Fromyour recommendation of Mrs. Chapone 's letters ; and , what is still more , from the character given them by Mrs. Williams , I was anxious to possess the book ; but , not being able to procure it here , my clerical brother , who was fortunately going to Boston , bought and presented it to me . 
This , Mrs. Williams used to say , is owing to the want of self-knowledge ; which , if once possessed , will enable us properly to estimate our own characters , and to ascertain with precision wherein we are defective , as well as wherein we excel . 
Mrs. Williams regulated my taste ; and , by directing and maturing my judgment , taught me to make it a source of refined and substantial pleasure . 
