`` Maude ! '' 
There was feeling -- passion -- every thing , now , in his cold gray eye , but quickly recovering his composure , he said calmly : `` Maude , Matty -- Maude , is that your child 's name ? '' 
`` How should I , '' he replied , `` when in your letters you have always called her daughter?But has she no other name ? 
She surely was not baptised Maude ? '' 
`` Maude ! '' 
Nothing loth to join Janet , whose company was preferable to that of the stranger , Maude left the room , while Dr. Kennedy , turning to Mrs. Remington , said : `` She is not at all like you , my dear . '' 
Dr. Kennedy could talk for hours of `` the late Mrs. Kennedy , '' accompanying his words with long-drawn sighs , and enumerating her many virtues , all of which he expected to be improved upon by her successor ; but he could not bear to hear the name of Harry Remington spoken by one who was to be his wife , and he at once changed the subject of Maude 's looks to her name , which he learned was really Matilda.She had been called Maude , Matty said , after one who was once a very dear friend both of herself and her husband . 
`` But you call your daughter Nellie , '' suggested the little widow , and in her soft , blue eye there shone a mischievous twinkle , as if she fancied she had beaten him with his own argument . 
But if she thought to convince that most unreasonable man , she was mistaken . 
But , seriously , Mattie , darling '' -- and he drew her to his side , with an uncommon show of fondness -- `` I can not call your daughter Maude ; I do not like the name , and it is a maxim of mine , that if a person dislikes a name , 't is an easy matter to dislike the one who bears it . '' 
Accordingly , when at last Maude returned to the parlor , with her dress changed , her curls arranged , and her dimpled cheeks shining with the sudsin which they had been washed , she was prepared to say Matildaor whatever else pleased his capricious fancy . 
`` Little girl , '' he said , extending his hand toward her , `` little girl , come here . 
`` Maude , daughter ! '' 
`` I wont be Matilda -- I 'm Maude , '' and her large black eyes flashed defiantly upon him . 
Maude had taken a dislike to the stranger , and as he persisted in calling her Matilda , she persisted in refusing to answer , until at last , hearing Janet pass through the hall , she ran out to her , sure of finding comfort and sympathy there . 
`` I am afraid I have suffered Maude to have her own way too much , and for the future I must be more strict with her , '' said Mrs. Remington , apologetically ; while the Doctor replied , `` I think , myself , a little wholesome discipline would not be amiss . 
`` Yes ; '' returned Mrs. Remington , `` Janet came to live with my mother when I was a little girl no larger than Maude . 
Since my marriage she has lived with me , and I would not part with her for any thing . '' 
`` He loves me , I know , '' she thought , `` though his manner of showing it is so different from Harry , but I shall become accustomed to that after a while , and be very , very happy , '' and comforted with this assurance she fell asleep , encircling within her arms the little Maude , whose name had awakened bitter memories in the heart of him who in an adjoining chamber battled with thoughts of the dark past , which now , on the eve of his second marriage passed in sad review before his mind . 
Not the slightest hint had she received that she was not to follow them in a few weeks , and when at parting little Maude clung to her skirts , beseeching her to go , she comforted the child by telling her what she would bring her in the autumn , when she came . 
The seat in front of them was turned back and occupied by Maude , who busied herself awhile in watching the fence and the trees , which she said were `` running so fast toward Janet and home ! '' 
Then her dark eyes would scan curiously the faces of Dr. Kennedy and her mother , resting upon the latter with a puzzled expression , as if she could not exactly understand it . 
The doctor persisted in calling her Matilda , and as she resolutely persisted in refusing to answer to that name , it seemed quite improbable that they would ever talk much together . 
Occasionally , it is true , he made her some advances , by playfully offering her his hand , but she would not touch it , and after a time , standing upon the seat and turning round , she found more agreeable society in the company of two school-boys who sat directly behind her . 
A jolt of the cars caused Maude to lay her chubby hand upon the shoulder of the elder boy , who , being very fond of children , caught it within his own , and in this way made her acquaintance . 
To him she was very communicative , and in a short time he learned that `` her name was Maude Remington , that the pretty lady in brown was her mother , and that the naughty manwas not her father , and never would be , for Janet said so . '' 
`` I like youand you , '' was Maude 's childlike answer , as she pointed a finger at each . 
`` But , '' persisted her questioner , `` you like my cousin the best . 
Maude hesitated a moment , then laying a hand on either side of the speaker 's face , and looking intently into his eyes , she answered , `` You do n't look as if you meant for certain , and he does ! '' 
Had Maude Remington been twenty instead of five , she could not better have defined the difference between those two young lads , and in after-years she had sad cause for remembering words which seemed almost prophetic . 
No wonder , then , that when toward morning Maude , who missed her soft , nice bed , began to cry for Janet and for home , the mother too burst forth in tears and choking sobs , which could not be controlled . 
`` Hush , Matty -- do n't , '' and the disturbed doctor shook her very gently ; `` it will soon be daylight , and 't is a max '' -- here he stopped , for he had no maxim suited to that occasion , and , in a most unenviable frame of mind , he frowned at the crying Maude , and tried to soothe his weeping wife , until at last , as the face of the latter was covered , and the former grew more noisy and unmanageable , he administered a fatherly rebuke in the shape of a boxed ear , which had no other effect than the eliciting from the child the outcry , `` Let me be , old doctor , you ! '' 
At that moment Matty lifted up her head , but as Maude was no tale-bearer , and the doctor hardly dared to tell her that he had thus early taken upon himself the government of her child , she never knew exactly what it was which made Maude 's ear so red or her liege lord 's face so dark . 
muttered the darkey , showing his teeth from ear to ear , and coaxing Maude away from her mother , he took her to a restaurant , where he literally crammed her with gingerbread , raisins , and candy , bidding her eat all she wanted at once , for it would be a long time maybe ere she 'd have another chance ! 
John left the room , and a moment after a little tiny creature came tripping to the door , where she stopped suddenly , and throwing back her curls , gazed curiously , first at Mrs. Kennedy , and then at Maude , whose large black eyes fastened themselves upon her with a gaze quite as curious and eager as her own . 
She was more than a year older than Maude , but much smaller in size , and her face seemed to have been fashioned after a beautiful waxen doll , so brilliant was her complexion , and so regular her features . 
She was naturally affectionate and amiable , too , when suffered to have her own way . 
Neither was she at all inclined to be timid , and when her father , taking her hand in his , bade her speak to her new mother , she went unhesitatingly to the lady , and climbing into her lap , sat there very quietly so long as Mrs. Kennedy permitted her to play with her rings , pull her collar , and take out her side-combs , for she had laid aside her bonnet ; but when at last her little sharp eyes ferreted out a watch , which she insisted upon having `` all to herself , '' a liberty which Mrs. Kennedy refused to grant , she began to pout , and , sliding from her new mother 's lap , walked up to Maude , whose acquaintance she made by asking if she had a pink silk dress ? 
`` No , but I guess Janet will bring me one , '' answered Maude , whose eyes never for an instant left the face of her step-sister . 
She was an enthusiastic admirer of beauty , and Nellie had made an impression upon her at once ; so , when the latter said , `` What makes you look at me so funny ? '' 
she answered , `` Because you are so pretty . '' 
This made a place for her at once in the heart of the vain little Nellie , who asked her to go up stairs and see the pink silk dress which `` Aunt Kelsey had given her . '' 
Here spying John , who was going with the oxen to the meadow , she ran away , followed by Maude , between whom and herself there was for the present a most amicable understanding . 
Comforted with these thoughts , she fell asleep , resting quietly until , just as the sun had set and it was growing dark within the room , Maude came rushing in , her dress all wet , her face flushed , and her eyes red with tears . 
She and Nellie had quarreled -- nay , actually fought ; Nellie telling Maude she was blacker than a nigger , and pushing her into the brook , while Maude , in return , had pulled out a handful of the young lady 's hair , for which her step-father had shaken her soundly , and sent her to her mother , whom she begged `` to go home , and not stay in that old house where the folks were ugly , and the rooms not a bit pretty . '' 
Mrs. Kennedy 's heart was already full , and drawing Maude to her side , the two homesick children mingled their tears together , until a heavy footstep upon the stairs announced the approach of Dr. Kennedy . 
Not a word did he say of his late adventure with Maude , and his manner was very kind toward his weary wife , who , with his hand upon her aching forehead , and his voice in her ear , telling her how sorry he was that she was sick , forgot that she had been unhappy . 
`` Whatever else he may do , '' she thought , `` he certainly loves me , '' and after a fashion he did perhaps love her . 
She was a pretty little creature , and her playful , coquettish ways had pleased him at first sight . 
Maude , too , was a favorite with John , both on account of her color , which he greatly admired , and because , poor , ignorant creature though he was , he saw in her the germ of the noble girl , who , in the coming years , was to bear uncomplainingly a burden of care from which the selfish Nellie would unhesitatingly turn away . 
Toward Maude the doctor had ever manifested a feeling of aversion , both because of her name , and because she had compelled him to yield when his mind was fully made up to do otherwise . 
She had resolutely refused to be called Matilda , and as it was necessary for him sometimes to address her , he called her first , `` You girl , '' then `` Mat , '' and finally arrived at `` Maude , '' speaking it always spitefully , as if provoked that he had once in his life been conquered . 
With the management of her he seldom interfered , for that scratch had given him a timely lesson , and as he did not like to be unnecessarily troubled , he left both Maude and Nellie to his wife , who suffered the latter to do nearly as she pleased , and thus escaped many of the annoyances to which step-mothers are usually subject . 
Although exceedingly selfish , Nellie was affectionate in her disposition , and when Maude did not cross her path the two were on the best of terms . 
Disturbances there were , however -- quarrels and fights , in the latter of which , Maude , being the stronger of the two , always came off victor ; but these did not last long , and had her husband been to her what he ought , Mrs. Kennedy 's life would not have been as dreary as it was . 
she exclaimed , turning away in disgust ; while Maude approached on tip-toe , and kneeling by the cradle side , kissed the unconscious sleeper , whispering as she did so , `` Ilove you , poor little brother . '' 
Darling Maude -- blessed Maude -- in all your after life , you proved the truth of those low spoken words , `` I love you , poor little brother . '' 
It was late in the afternoon when she reached her brother 's house , from which Nellie came running out to meet her , accompanied by Maude . 
`` They are ma 's , and she 's got a baby up-stairs , '' answered Maude , and the lady 's hand rested for an instant on the little curly head , for strange as it may seem , she esteemed more highly a woman who owned a piano and handsome table , than she did one whose worldly possessions were more limited . 
After making some changes in her dress , she went up to the sick-room , and as Mattie was asleep , she had ample time to examine her face , and also to inspect the room , which showed in some one a refined and delicate taste . 
`` She must be more of a lady than I supposed , '' she thought , and when at last , her sister-in-law awoke , she greeted her kindly , and during her visit , which lasted nearly two weeks , she exerted herself to be agreeable , succeeding so far that Mattie parted from her at last with genuine regret . 
With Maude and her baby , who bore the name of Louis , she found her greatest comfort . 
Louis had a most beautiful face , and in his soft , brown eyes there was a `` look like the angels , '' as Maude once said to her mother , who seldom spoke of him without a sigh , for on her mind a terrible fear was fastening itself . 
asked Maude , one evening when she saw how long it took him to cross the room . 
persisted Maude . 
`` Maude , '' said Mrs. Kennedy , drawing her daughter to her side , `` I must tell somebody or my heart will burst , '' and laying her head upon the table , she wept aloud . 
`` Do n't try ma , Loui ' good , '' lisped the infant on the floor , while Mrs. Kennedy , drying at last her tears , told to the wondering Maude that Louis was not like other children -- that he would probably never have the use of his feet -- that a bunch was growing on his back -- and he in time would be '' -- she could not say deformed , and so she said at last , `` he 'll be forever lame . '' 
Poor little Maude ! 
Very wonderfully the child looked up into her eyes , and raising his waxen hand , he wiped her tears away , saying , as he did so , `` Loui ' love Maude . '' 
With a choking sob Maude kissed her baby brother , then going back to her mother , whose head still lay upon the table , she whispered , `` We will love poor Louis all the more , you and I. '' Blessed Maude , we say again , for these were no idle words , and the clinging , tender love with which she cherished her unfortunate brother , ought to have shamed the heartless man , who , when he heard of his affliction , refused to be comforted , and almost cursed the day when his only son was born . 
At that moment , Maude drew Louis into the room and taking the child in his arms , the doctor examined him for himself , wondering he had never observed before how small and seemingly destitute of life were his lower limbs . 
The bunch upon the back , though slight as yet , was really there , and Mattie , when questioned , said it had been there for weeks , but she did not tell of it , for she hoped it would go away . 
`` It will stay until his dying day , '' he muttered , as he ordered Maude to take the child away . 
he exclaimed , when he was alone with his wife , and then , as he dared not blame the Almighty , he charged it to her until at last his thoughts took another channel -- `` Maude had dropped him -- he knew she had , and Mattie was to blame for letting her handle him so much , when she knew 't was a maxim of his that children should not take care of children . '' 
The next morning he asked Maude to draw him to the church-yard where `` his other mother , '' as he called her , was buried . 
Maude complied , and when they were there , placed him at his request upon the ground , where stretching himself out at his full length , he said : `` Look , Maude , wo n't mine be a little grave ? '' 
then , ere she could answer , the strange question , he continued , `` I want to die so bad ; and if you leave me lying here in the long grass maybe God 's angel will take me up to Heaven . 
cried Maude , and as well as he could , for the tears he shed , Louis told her what he meant . 
What is a cripple , Maude ? 
In an instant Maude knelt by his side -- his head was pillowed on her bosom , and in the silent graveyard , with the quiet dead around them , she spoke blessed words of comfort to her brother , telling him what a cripple was , and that because he bore that name he was dearer far to her . 
`` Your father will love you , too , '' she said , `` when he learns how good you are . 
He loves Nellie , and -- '' Ere she could say more , she was interrupted by Louis , on whose mind another truth had dawned , and who now said , `` but he do n't love you as he does Nellie . 
Folding him still closer in her arms , and kissing his fair , white brow , Maude answered : `` Your father , Louis , is not mine -- for mine is dead , and his grave is far away . 
asked Louis , his eyes still fixed upon her face as if he would read the truth . 
Every feeling of Maude Remington 's heart answered , `` No , '' to that question , but she could not say so to the boy , and she replied , `` Not as I could love my own father -- neither does he love me , for I am not his child . '' 
This explanation was not then wholly clear to Louis , but he understood that there was a barrier between his father and Maude , and this of itself was sufficient to draw him more closely to the latter , who , after that day , cherished him , if possible , more tenderly than she had done before , keeping him out of his father 's way , and cushioning his little crutches so they could not be heard , for she rightly guessed that the sound of them was hateful to the harsh man 's ears . 
Maude was far older than her years , and during the period of time over which we have passed so briefly , she had matured both in mind and body , until now at the age of twelve , she was a self-reliant little woman on whom her mother wholly depended for comfort and counsel . 
Maude 's position was now a trying one , for , when her mother became too ill to leave her room , and the doctor refused to hire extra help , saying , `` two great girls were help enough , '' it was necessary for her to go into the kitchen , where she vainly tried to conciliate old Hannah , who `` would n't mind a chit of a girl , and would n't fret herself either if things were not half done . '' 
From the first Nellie resolutely refused to work -- `` it would black her hands , '' she said , and as her father never remonstrated , she spent her time in reading , admiring her pretty face , and drumming upon the piano , which Maude , who was fonder even than Nellie of music , seldom found time to touch . 
One there was , however , who gave to Maude every possible assistance , and this was John . 
`` 'T is a long time since I 've heard from her , '' she said one day to Maude . 
`` Suppose you write to-morrow , and tell her I am sick -- tell her , too , that the sight of her would almost make me well , and maybe she will come , '' and on the sick woman 's face there was a joyous expression as she thought how pleasant it would be to see once more one who had breathed the air of her native hills -- had looked upon her Harry 's grave -- nay , had known her Harry when in life , and wept over him in death . 
Nellie , too , was unusually irritable , and venting her spite upon Hannah because there was nothing for dinner fit to eat , and upon Maude because the house was so desolate and dark , she crept away up stairs , and wrapping a shawl round her , sat down to a novel , pausing occasionally to frown at the rain which beat at the windows , or the wind as it roared dismally through the trees . 
While thus employed , she heard the sound of wheels , and looking up , saw standing before their gate a muddy wagon , from which a little , dumpy figure in black was alighting , carefully holding up her alpaca dress , and carrying in one hand a small box which seemed to be full of flowers . 
`` She must have come to stay a long time , '' thought Nellie , as she saw the piles of baggage which the driver was depositing upon the stoop . 
she continued , as she recalled all her aunts and cousins , and found that none of them answered the description of this woman , who knocked loudly at the door , and then walked in to shelter herself from the storm . 
`` The same , '' returned Nellie , thinking how unmercifully she would tease Maude should this prove to be any of her relations . 
asked Nellie , and the stranger answered : `` Yes , go and call Maude , but do n't tell her who I am . '' 
She forgot that Nellie did not herself know who she was , and sitting down upon her trunk , she waited while Nellie hurried to the kitchen , where , over a smoky fire , Maude was trying in vain to make a bit of nicely browned toast for her mother , who had expressed a wish for some thing good to eat . 
`` Here , Maude , '' called out Nellie , `` your grandmother or aunt has come , I guess , and wants to see you in the hall . '' 
`` It 's Janet , -- it 's Janet , I know , '' screamed Maude , and leaving her slice of bread to burn and blacken before the fire , she hurried away , while Nellie who had heard nothing of the letter sent the week before , wondered much who the `` witched old thing with the poking black bonnet could be . '' 
With a cry of delight , Maude wound her arms around the neck of her old nurse , whom she knew in a moment , though Janet had more difficulty in recognizing the little girl of other years , in the womanly looking maiden before her . 
Then looking intently in Maude 's face she continued . 
`` No , no , not handsome , Janet ; Nellie is the beauty of the house , '' and Maude shook her head mournfully , for on the subject of beauty , she was a little sensitive , her sister always pronouncing her `` a fright , '' and manifesting a most unamiable spirit if any one complimented her in the least . 
`` Come in here , '' said Maude , leading the way into the parlor , and drawing a chair close to Janet , she told all she deemed it necessary to tell . 
But the quick-witted Janet knew there was something more , and casting a scornful glance around the room , she said : `` You are a good girl , Maude ; but you ca n't deceive an old girl like me . 
After a little her mind came back from her lamented husband , and she gave Maude a most minute account of her tedious ride in a lumber-wagon from Canandaigua to Laurel Hill , for the stage had left when she reached the depot , and she was in too great a hurry to remain at the hotel until the next morning . 
she said at last , and Maude answered : `` Never mind him now ; let us see mother first , or rather let me see to her dinner , '' and she arose to leave the room . 
She 's had a good time waitin ' , but I 'll make amends by seein ' to her dinner , myself , '' and spite of Maude 's endeavors to keep her back , she followed on into the disorderly kitchen , from which Nellie had disappeared , and where old Hannah sat smoking her pipe as leisurely as if on the table there were not piles of unwashed dishes , to say nothing of the unswept floor and dirty hearth . 
`` Toast and tea , '' answered Maude , and casting a deprecating glance at the fire , Janet continued : `` You ca n't make any toast fit for a heathen to eat by that fire . 
`` Biled eggs will be good for her digester , and if I only had one dropped in water , '' she said , and quick as thought Maude brought her one , while Hannah growled again , `` Ole marster 'll raise de ruff , case he put 'em away to sell . '' 
Hannah 's first impulse was to snatch the jelly from Janet 's hand , but feeling intuitively that in the resolute Scotchwoman she had a mistress , and fearing lest Maude should betray her to the doctor , she exclaimed , `` If that aint the very stuff Miss Ruggles sent in for Miss Matty ! 
and shutting the cupboard door , she stood with her back against it lest Janet should discover sundry other delicacies hidden away for a like purpose . 
`` Mother has not had a feast like this -- and she 'll enjoy it so much , '' said Maude , as she started up the stairs followed by Janet , who , ere they reached the chamber , suddenly stopped , saying , `` I tell you what 't is , if she knows I 'm here she wo n't eat a mou ` ful , so you say nothin ' , and when she 's through I 'll come . '' 
This seemed reasonable to Maude , who , leaving Janet to look through a crevice in the door , entered alone into her mother 's presence . 
Mrs. Kennedy had waited long for Maude , and at last , weary with listening to the rain , which made her feel so desolate and sad , she fell asleep , as little Louis at her side had done before her ; but Maude 's cheering voice awoke her . 
`` Look , mother , '' she cried , `` see the nice dinner ! '' 
and her own eyes fairly danced as she placed the tray upon the table before her mother , who , scarcely less pleased , exclaimed , `` A boiled egg -- and jelly , too ! 
`` Eat first , and then I 'll tell you , '' answered Maude , propping her up with pillows , and setting the server in her lap . 
`` It tastes like old times -- like Janet , '' said the invalid , and from the room without , where Janet watched , there came a faint , choking sound , which Matty thought was the wind , and which Maude knew was Janet . 
Through the door she had caught sight of her mistress , whose white , wasted face wrung from her that cry . 
Stuffing her handkerchief into her mouth , she waited until toast , tea , egg , and all had disappeared , then , with the exclamation , `` She 's et 'em all up slick and clean , '' she walked into the room . 
To Nellie and to Maude she had spoken blessed words of comfort , commending to the latter as to a second mother the little Louis , who , trembling with fear , had hidden beneath the bedclothes , so that he could not see the white look upon her face . 
Maude , Nellie , Janet and John , had wept themselves sick , while in little Louis 's bosom there was a sense of desolation which kept him wakeful , even after Maude had cried herself to sleep . 
Underneath the willows , and by the side of Katy , was Mattie laid to rest , and then the desolate old house seemed doubly desolate -- Maude mourning truly for her mother , while the impulsive Nellie , too , wept bitterly , for one whom she had really loved . 
And now , leaving him a while to himself , we will pass on to a period when Maude herself shall become in reality the heroine of our story . 
Fouryears and a half have passed away since the dark November night when Matty Kennedy died , and in her home all things are not as they were then . 
and entering the room where Maude was sewing , she astonished the young girl by telling her what she had done . 
`` I have made you my heir , '' said she , tossing the deed of gift and the will into Maude 's lap . 
Maude was at first too much astonished to comprehend the meaning of what she heard , but she understood it at last , and then , with many tears , thanked the eccentric woman for what she had done , and asked the reason for this unexpected generosity . 
answered Janet , determined not to injure Maude 's feelings by letting her know how soon her mother had been forgotten . 
The latter part of this speech was made as Janet was leaving the room , consequently Maude did not hear it , neither would she have understood if she had . 
She knew her nurse was very peculiar , but she never dreamed it possible for her to fancy that Dr. Kennedy wished to make her his wife , and she was greatly puzzled to know why she had been so generous to her . 
I 've gin my property all to Maude ; half of it the day she 's eighteen , and the rest o n't is willed to her when I die , so you may as well let me alone , '' and feeling greatly flurried with what she verily believed to have been an offer , she walked away , leaving the doctor to think her the most inexplicable woman he ever saw . 
For several days Janet studied her face to see what was in it , `` which made every manin Christendom want her ! '' 
Meantime , the story that Maude was an heiress , circulated rapidly , and , as the lawyer kept his own counsel , and Maude , in accordance with Janet 's request , never told how much had been given her , the amount was doubled , nay , in some cases trebled , and she suddenly found herself a person of considerable importance , particularly in the estimation of Dr. Kennedy , who , aside from setting a high value upon money , fancied he saw a way by which he himself could reap some benefit from his step-daughter 's fortune . 
If Maude had money , she certainly ought to pay for her board , and so he said to her one day , prefacing his remarks with his stereotyped phrase , that `` 't was a maxim of his , that one person should not live upon another if they could help it . '' 
Since Janet 's last marriage , Maude had taken the entire management of affairs , and without her , there would have been but little comfort or order in a household whose only servant was old and lazy , and whose eldest daughter was far too proud to work . 
This Maude knew , and with a flush of indignation upon her cheek , she replied to her step-father : `` Very well , sir , I can pay for my board , if you like ; but boarders , you know , never trouble themselves with the affairs of the kitchen . '' 
He knew he could not well dispense with Maude 's services , and it had not before occurred to him that a housekeeper and boarder were two different persons . 
Maude was at this time nearly sixteen years of age , and during the next year she was to all intents and purposes the housekeeper , discharging faithfully every duty and still finding time to pursue her own studies and superintend the education of little Louis , to whom she was indeed a second mother . 
She was very fond of books , and while Janet was with them , she had with Nellie attended the seminary at Laurel Hill , where she stood high in all her classes , for learning was with her a delight , and when at last it seemed necessary for her to remain at home , she still devoted a portion of each day to her studies , reciting to a teacher who came regularly to the house , and whom she paid with her own money . 
This chamber to which Nellie referred , was Maude 's particular province . 
Here she reigned joint sovereign with Louis , who thus early evinced a degree of intellectuality wonderful in one so young , and who in some things excelled even Maude herself . 
Almost the entire day did Louis pass in what he termed Maude 's library , where , poring over books , or busy with his pencil , he whiled the hours away without a sigh for the green fields and shadowy woods , through which he could never hope to ramble . 
And Maude was very proud of her artist brother -- proud of the beautiful boy whose face seemed not to be of earth , so calm , so angel-like was its expression . 
For his sister Maude , Louis possessed a deep , undying love , which neither time nor misfortune could in any way abate . 
She was part and portion of himself -- his life -- his light -- his all in all -- and to his childlike imagination a purer , nobler being had never been created than his darling sister Maude . 
And well might Louis Kennedy love the self-sacrificing girl who devoted herself so wholly to him , and who well fulfilled her mother 's charge . 
Nellie , too , was well beloved , but he soon grew weary of her company , for she seldom talked of any thing save herself and the compliments which were given to her youthful beauty . 
She was very small , and the profusion of golden curls which fell about her neck and shoulders , gave her the appearance of being younger than she really was . 
Her features were almost painfully regular , her complexion dazzlingly brilliant , while her large blue eyes had in them a dreamy , languid expression exceedingly attractive to those who looked for nothing beyond -- no inner chamber where dwell the graces which make a woman what she ought to be . 
She would make a beautiful picture , he thought -- but for the noble , the good , the pure , he turned to the dark eyed Maude , who was as wholly unlike her step-sister as it was possible for her to be . 
Her complexion , too , was dark , but tinged with a beautiful red , which Nellie would gladly have transferred to her own paler cheek . 
It was around the mouth , however , the exquisitely shaped mouth , and white even teeth , that Maude 's principal beauty lay , and the bright smile which lit up her features when at all animated in conversation would have made a plain face handsome . 
Some there were who gave her the preference , saying there was far more of beauty in her clear , beautiful eyes and sunny smile , than in the dollish face of Nellie , who treated such remarks with the utmost scorn . 
Sheknew that she was beautiful . 
She had known it all her life -- for had she not been told so by her mirror , her father , her school-mates , her aunt Kelsey , and more than all by J. C. De Vere , the elegant young man whom she had met in Rochester , where she had spent the winter preceding the summer of which we now are writing , and which was four and one half years after Mattie 's death . 
Even the cosy little chamber which the kind-hearted Maude had fitted up for her with her own means , was pronounced heathenish and old-fashioned , while Maude herself was constantly taunted with being countryfiedand odd . 
`` I wish J. C. De Vere could see you now , '' she said one morning to her sister , who had donned her working dress , and with sleeves rolled up , and wide checked apron tied around her waist , was deep in the mysteries of bread making . 
`` I wish he could see her , too , '' said Louis , who had rolled his chair into the kitchen so that he could be with Maude . 
He ca n't endure the smell of cooking , and says he would never look twice at a lady whose hands were not as soft and white as -- well , as mine , '' and she glanced admiringly at the little snowy fingers , which were beating a tune upon the window-sill . 
By the way , Maude , if I had as much money at my command as you have , I 'd fix up the parlor a little . 
`` I dare say you would , and Maude , too , '' returned Nellie , adding , after a moment : `` And I should n't wonder if Maude just suited him , particularly if he finds her up to her elbows in dough . 
So , Maude , it is for your interest to improve the old castle a little . 
and she drew nearer to Maude , who made no direct reply . 
The three hundred and fifty dollars interest money which she had received the year before , had but little of it been expended on herself , though it had purchased many a comfort for the household , for Maude was generous , and freely gave what was her own to give . 
The parlor carpet troubled even her , but she would not pledge herself to buy another , until she had first tried her powers of persuasion upon the doctor , who , as she expected , refused outright . 
But on the subject of the carpet he was inexorable , and with tears of anger in her large blue eyes , Nellie gave up the contest , while Maude very quietly walked over to the store , and gave orders that a handsome three-ply carpet which she had heard her sister admire , should be sent home as soon as possible . 
`` You are a dear good girl after all , and I hope James DeVerewill fall in love with you , '' was Nellie 's exclamation as she saw a large roll deposited at their door , but not a stitch in the making of the carpet , did she volunteer to take . 
`` She should prick her fingers , or callous her hand , '' she said , `` and Mr. DeVere thought so much of a pretty hand . '' 
I 'd give a heap more for one of Miss Maude 's little fingers , red and rough as they be , than I would for both them soft , sickish feeling hands of yourn ; '' and John hastily disappeared from the room to escape the angry words , which he knew would follow his bold remark . 
Nellie was not a favorite at home , and no one humored her as much as Maude , who , on this occasion , almost out-did herself in her endeavors to please the exacting girl , and make the house as presentable as possible to the fashionable Mrs. Kelsey , and the still more fashionable J. C. DeVere . 
Maude , too , was a good deal excited , for one of her even temperament . 
She rather dreaded Mrs. Kelsey , whom she had seen but twice in her life , but for some reason , wholly inexplicable to herself , she felt a strange interest in the wonderful J. C. , of whom she had heard so much . 
`` Maude , '' called Louis , from the adjoining room , `` wear white . 
answered Nellie , feeling provoked that she had not advised the wearing of some color notas becoming to Maude as she knew white to be . 
Maude had the utmost confidence in Louis ' taste , and when fifteen minutes later , she stood before the mirror , her short , glossy curls clustering about her head , a bright bloom on her cheek , and a brighter smile upon her lip , she thought it was the dress which made her look so well , for it had never entered her mind that she was handsome . 
`` Wear your coral ear-rings , '' said Louis , who had wheeled himself into the room , and was watching her with all a fond brother 's pride . 
The ear-rings were a decided improvement , and the jealous Nellie , when she saw how neat and tasteful was her sister 's dress , began to cry , saying , `` she herself looked a fright , that she 'd nothing fit to wear , and if her father did not buy her something she 'd run away . '' 
This last was her usual threat when at all indignant , and as after giving vent to it she generally felt better , she soon dried her tears , saying , `` she was glad anyway that she had blue eyes , for J. C. could not endure black ones . '' 
`` Maybe Jamescan , '' was the quick rejoinder of Louis , who always defended Maude from Nellie 's envious attacks . 
Half an hour more and they would be there , and going through the rooms below , Nellie looked to see if every thing was in order , then returning to her chamber above , she waited impatiently until the sound of wheels was heard in the distance . 
Very prettily she led the way to the house , and after ushering her guests into the parlor , ran up stairs to Maude , bidding her to order supper at once , and telling her as a piece of important news , which she did not already know , that `` Aunt Kelsey , James , and J. C. had come . '' 
Of Maude 's existence he knew nothing , and when at last supper was announced , and he followed his cousin to the dining-room , he started in surprise , as his eye fell on the dark-eyed girl , who , with a heightened bloom upon her cheek , presided at the table with so much grace and dignity . 
Whether intentionally or not , we can not say , but Nellie failed to introduce her step-sister , and as Mrs. Kelsey was too much absorbed in looking at her pretty niece , and in talking to her brother , to notice the omission , Maude 's position would have been peculiarly embarrassing , but for the gentlemanly demeanor of James , who , always courteous , particularly to those whom he thought neglected , bowed politely , and made to her several remarks concerning the fineness of the day , and the delightful view which Laurel Hill commanded of the surrounding country . 
She was no menial , he knew , and looking in her bright , black eyes , he saw that she had far more mind than the dollish Nellie , who , as usual , was provoking J. C. to say all manner of foolish things . 
J. C. was sure he had n't ; but he did not contradict the little lady , whose manner plainly indicated that any attention paid by him to the said Maude , would be resented as an insult to herself . 
`` It must be Dr. Kennedy 's crippled boy , '' answered James , as Louis skipped across the floor on crutches , and climbed into the chair which Maude carefully held for him . 
Louis did not wish to eat with the strangers until somewhat acquainted , consequently he waited until they were gone , and then came to the table , where Maude stood by his side , carefully ministering to his wants , and assisting him into his chair when he was through . 
Then , pushing back her curls , and donning the check apron which Nellie so much abhorred , she removed the dishes herself , for old Hannah she knew was very tired , having done an unusual amount of work that day . 
and he pointed to Maude , who was finishing her domestic duties , by brushing the crumbs from the carpet . 
Nothing pleased John better than a chance to talk of Maude , and he replied : `` She came here twelve years ago this very month with that little blue-eyed mother of hern , who is lyin ' under them willers in the grave-yard . 
We could n't live without Miss Maude . 
She 's all the sunshine thar is about the lonesome old place . 
Why , she does everything , from takin ' care of her crippled half-brother to mendin ' t ` other ones gownd . '' 
J. C. was exceedingly good natured , and tossing his cigar into the grass , he replied , `` You do n't mean me , of course ; but tell us more of this Maude , who mops the floor and mends Nellie 's dresses . '' 
`` She do n't mop the floor , '' muttered John . 
`` This nigger would n't let her do that -- but she does mend Nellie 's gownds , which I would n't do , if I 's worth as much money as she is ! '' 
is Maude an heiress ? '' 
`` She ai n't nothin ' else , '' returned John , who proceeded to speak of Janet and her generous gift , the amount of which he greatly exaggerated . 
`` Those butter and cheese men do accumulate money fast , '' said J. C. , more to himself than to his companion , who laughingly replied , `` It would be funny if you should make this Maude my cousin instead of Nellie . 
Let me see -- cousin Nellie -- cousin Maude . 
I like the sound of the latter the best , though I am inclined to think she is altogether too good for a mercenary dog like you . '' 
No , give me la charmant Nellie , even though she can not mend her dress , and you are welcome to cousin Maude , the milkman 's heiress . '' 
At that moment Mrs. Kelsey and Nellie appeared upon the stoop , and as Maude was no longer visible , the young gentlemen returned to the parlor , where J. C. asked Nellie to favor him with some music . 
Nellie liked to play , for it showed her white hands to advantage , and seating herself at the piano , she said : `` I have learned a new song since I saw you , but Maude must sing the other part -- maybe , though , I can get along without her . '' 
This last was said because she did not care to have Maude in the parlor , and she had inadvertently spoken of her singing . 
The young men , however , were not as willing to excuse her , and Maude was accordingly sent for . 
She came readily , and performed her part without the least embarassment , although she more than once half paused to listen to the rich , full tones of James 's voice , for he was an unusually fine singer ; Maude had never heard any thing like it before , and when the song was ended , the bright , sparkling eyes which she turned upon him told of her delight quite as eloquently as words could have done . 
Maude glanced at her red hands , which J. C. would be sure to notice , then feeling ashamed to hesitate for a reason like this , she answered , `` Yes , sometimes , '' and taking her seat , she played several pieces , keeping admirable time , and giving to the music a grace and finish which Nellie had often tried in vain to imitate . 
`` She is merely playing at my request , '' said Mr. De Vere , `` but if it is distasteful to Miss Kennedy we will of course desist , '' and bending low he said a few words of commendation to Maude , whose heart thrilled to the gentle tones of his voice just as many another maiden 's had done before . 
Mr. De Vere was exceedingly agreeable , and so Maude found him to be , for feeling intuitively that she was somewhat slighted by the overbearing Nellie , he devoted himself to her entirely , talking first of books , then of music , and lastly of his home , which , without any apparent boasting , he described as a most beautiful spot . 
For a long time that night did Louis wait for his sister in his little bed , and when at last she came to give him her accustomed kiss , he pushed the thick curls from off her face and said , `` I never saw you look so happy , Maude . 
`` Which one , '' asked Maude . 
`` Yes , I know , '' returned Louis , `` but I mean the one with the voice.Forgive me , Maude , but I sat ever so long at the head of the stairs , listening as he talked . 
Maude could not well describe him . 
She only knew that he was taller than J. C. , and as she thought much finer looking , with deep blue eyes , dark brown hair , and a mouth just fitted to his voice . 
Farther than this , she could not tell . 
`` But you will see him in the morning , '' she said . 
Maude knew so too , and somewhat impatiently she waited for the morrow , when she could introduce her brother to her friend . 
The morrow came , but , as was frequently the case , Louis was suffering from a severe pain in his back , which kept him confined to his room , so that Mr. DeVere neither saw him at all nor Maude as much as he wished to do . 
He had been greatly interested in her , and when at dinner he heard that she would not be down , he was conscious of a feeling of disappointment . 
She was not present at supper either , but after it was over she joined him in the parlor , and , together with J. C. and Nellie , accompanied him to the grave-yard , where , seating herself upon her mother 's grave , she told him of that mother , and the desolation which crept into her heart when first she knew she was an orphan . 
From talking or her mother it was an easy matter to speak of her Vernon home , which she had never seen since she left it twelve years before , and then Mr. DeVere asked if she had met two boys in the cars on her way to Albany . 
At first Maude could not recall them , and when at last she did so , her recollections were so vague that Mr. DeVere felt another pang of disappointment , though wherefore he could not tell , unless indeed , he thought there would be something pleasant in being remembered twelve long years by a girl like Maude Remington . 
Not because the idea of making love to Maude was utterly distasteful , but because he fancied she might be annoyed , and over his features there came a shadow , which Maude did not fail to observe . 
`` He does not wish to be teased about me , '' she thought , and around the warm spot which the name of `` Cousin Maude '' had made within her heart , there crept a nameless chill -- a fear that she had been degraded in his eyes . 
`` I must go back to Louis , '' she said at last , and rising from her mother 's grave , she returned to the house , accompanied by Mr. DeVere , who walked by her side in silence , wondering if she really cared for J. C. 's untimely joke . 
`` James De Vere did not understand the female heart , and wishing to relieve Maude from all embarrassment in her future intercourse with himself , he said to her as they reached the door : `` My Cousin Maude must not mind what J. C. said , for she knows it is not so . '' 
`` Certainly not , '' was Maude 's answer , as she ran up stairs , hardly knowing whether she wished it were , or were not so . 
One thing , however , she knew . 
She liked to have him call her Cousin Maude ; and when Louis asked what Mr. De Vere had said beneath the willows , she told him of her new name , and asked if he did not like it . 
But on the morrow Louis was so much worse , that , in attending to him , Maude found but little time to spend with Mr. De Vere , who was to leave them that evening . 
When , however , the carriage which was to take him away , stood at the gate , she went down to bid him good-bye , and ask him to visit them again . 
Will my Cousin Maude answer me if I should sometime chance to write her , mere friendly , cousinly letters , of course ? '' 
This last he said because he mistook the deep flush on Maude 's cheek for an unwillingness to do any thing which looked at all like `` making love . '' 
`` I will write , '' was all Maude had a chance to say ere Nellie joined them , accompanied by J. C. , who had not yet terminated his visit at Laurel Hill , and as soon as his cousin left , he intended removing to the hotel , where he would be independent of Dr. Kennedy , and at the same time , devote himself to the daughter or step-daughter , just as he should feel inclined . 
At first Nellie accompanied them in these excursions ; but when one day her aunt , who still remained at Laurel Hill , pointed out to her a patch of sun burn and a dozen freckles -- the result of her out door exercise , she declared her intention of remaining at home thereafter -- a resolution not altogether unpleasant to J. C. , as by this means Maude was more frequently his companion . 
If our readers suppose that to a man of J. C. 's nature there was any thing particularly agreeable in thus devoting himself to a cripple boy , they are mistaken , for Louis Kennedy might have remained in doors for ever , had it not been for the sunny smile and look of gratitude which Maude Remington always gave to J. C. De Vere , when he came for or returned with her darling brother . 
Insensibly the domestic virtues and quiet ways of the black haired Maude were winning a strong hold upon J. C. 's affections , and still he had never seriously thought of making her his wife . 
He only knew that he liked her , that he felt very comfortable where she was , and very uncomfortable where she was not -- that the sound of her voice singing in the choir was the only music he heard on the Sabbath day , and though Nellie , in her character of soprano , ofttimes warbled like a bird , filling the old church with melody , he did not heed it , so intent was he in listening to the deeper , richer notes , of her who sang the alto , and whose fingers swept the organ keys with so much grace and beauty . 
And Maude ! 
within her bosom was there no interest awakened for one who thought so much of her ? 
She liked him , because he was so much more polite to her than she had expected him to be , and more than all , she liked him for his kindness to her brother , never dreaming that for her sake alone those kindly acts were done . 
Of James De Vere she often thought , repeating sometimes to herself the name of Cousin Maude , which had sounded so sweetly to her ear , when he had spoken it . 
His promise she remembered , too , and as often as the mail came in , bringing her no letter , she sighed involuntarily to think she was forgotten . 
Not forgotten , Maude , no , not forgotten , and when one afternoon , five weeks after James 's departure , J. C. , stood at her side , he had good reason for turning his eyes away from her truthful glance , for he knew of a secret wrong done to her that day . 
There had come to him that morning , a letter from James , containing a note for Maude , and the request that he would hand it to her . 
`` I should have written to her sooner , '' James wrote , `` but mother 's illness and an unusual amount of business prevented me from doing so . 
` Better late than never , ' is , however , a good motto at times , and I entrust the letter to you , because I would save her from any gossip which an open correspondence with me might create . '' 
He never dreamed it possible that she could tell him no ; he had been so flattered and admired by the city belles , and the only point which troubled him was what his fashionable friends would say when in place of the Nellie , whose name had been so long associated with his , he brought to them a Maude fresh from the rural districts , with naught in her disposition save goodness , purity , and truth . 
So perfectly secure was Nellie in J. C. 's admiration for herself , that she failed to see his growing preference for Maude , whom she frequently ridiculed in his presence , just because she thought he would laugh at it , and think her witty . 
But in this she was mistaken , for her ridicule raised Maude higher in his estimation , and he was glad when at last an opportunity occurred for him to declare his intentions . 
Nellie did not ask J. C. if he were going ; she expected it as a matter of course , just as she expected that Maude would stay at home to look after Louis and the house . 
and the angry tears glittered in Nellie 's blue eyes , when she heard the message he had sent her . 
Maude had finished her domestic duties , and in tasteful gingham morning-gown , with the whitest of linen collars upon her neck , she sat reading alone at the foot of the garden , beneath a tall cherry tree , where John had built her a rough seat of boards . 
This was her favorite resort , and here J. C. found her , so intent upon her book as not to observe his approach until he stood before her . 
She seemed surprised to see him , and made anxious inquiries concerning his headache , which he told her was much better . 
`` And even if it were not , '' said he , seating himself at her feet ; `` Even if it were not , the sight of you , looking so bright , so fresh and so neat , would dissipate it entirely , '' and his eyes , from which the saucy , wicked look was for the moment gone , rested admiringly upon her face . 
His manner was even more pointed than his words , and coloring crimson , Maude replied , `` You are disposed to be complimentary , Mr. De Vere . '' 
But you , Maude Remington , have brought me to my senses , and determined me to be a maninstead of a fool.Will you help me , Maude , in this resolution ? 
and seizing both her hands , he poured into her astonished ear his declaration of love , speaking so rapidly and so vehemently as almost to take her breath away , for she had never expected a scene like this . 
She had looked upon him as one who would undoubtedly be her sister 's husband , and the uniform kindness with which he had treated her , she attributed to his exceeding good nature ; but to be loved by him ; by J. C. De Vere , who had been sought after by the fairest ladies in the land , she could not believe it possible , and with mingled feelings of pleasure , pain and gratified vanity , she burst into tears . 
Very gently J. C. wiped her tears away , and sitting down beside her , he said , `` The first time I ever saw you , Maude , you told me ` I did not look as if I meant for certain , ' and you were right , for all my life has been a humbug ; but I mean ` for certain ' now . 
I love you , Maude , love you for the very virtues which I have so often affected to despise , and you must make me what J. C. De Vere ought to be . 
Will you , Maude ? 
To say Maude was not gratified that this man of fashion should prefer her to all the world , would be an untruth , but she could not then say `` Yes , '' for another , and a more melodious voice was still ringing in her ear , and she saw in fancy a taller , nobler form than that of him who was pressing her to answer . 
`` Not yet , Mr. De Vere , '' she said . 
`` 'T was only profession , Maude , '' he said , and then , still holding her closely to him , he frankly and ingenuously gave her a truthful history of his life up to the time of his first acquaintance with Nellie , of whom he spoke kindly , saying she pleased him better than most of his city friends , and as he began really to want a wife , he had followed her to Laurel Hill , fully intending to offer her the heart which , ere he was aware of it , was given to another . 
Wont you , Maude ? 
The mention of that name was unfortunate , and rising to her feet Maude replied : `` I cannotanswer you now , Mr. De Vere . 
He knew by her voice that she was in earnest , and kissing her hand he walked rapidly away , his love increasing in intensity with each step he took . 
Every one else had met his advances at least half-way , and Maude 's indecision made him feel more ardent than he otherwise might have been . 
`` What if she should refuse me ? '' 
`` What if she should say , No ? '' 
In a state of great perplexity Maude returned to the house , and seeking out her brother , the only person to whom she could go for counsel , she told him of the offer she had received , and asked him what he thought . 
`` If I refuse , she never need to know of it , '' answered Maude , and Louis continued : `` They say he is a great catch , and would n't it be nice to get him away from every body else . 
Maude 's heart beat rapidly , and the color on her cheek deepened to a brighter hue , as she replied , `` What made you think of him ? '' 
`` I do n't know , '' was Louis ' answer , `` only when he was here , I fancied you were pleased with him , and that he would suit you better than J. C. '' `` But he do n't like me , '' said Maude . 
`` He do n't like any woman well enough to make her his wife , '' and she sighed deeply as she thought of his broken promise , and the letter looked for so long . 
`` Maude , '' said Louis suddenly , `` men like J. C. De Vere sometimes marry for money , and maybe he thinks your fortune larger than it is . 
That Maude was more interested in J. C. De Vere than she supposed , was proved by the earnestness with which she defended him from all mercenary motives . 
`` He knows Nellie 's fortune is much larger than my own , '' she said , `` and by preferring me to her , he shows that money is not his motive . '' 
Still Louis 's suggestion troubled her , and by way of testing the matter , she sat down at once and wrote him a note , telling him frankly how much she had in her own name , and how much in expectancy . 
This note she sent to him by John , who , naturally quick-witted , read a portion of the truth in her tell-tale face , and giving a loud whistle in token of his approbation , he exclaimed , `` This nigger 'll never quit larfin ' if you gets him after all Miss Nellie 's nonsense , and I hopes you will , for he 's a heap better chap than I s ` posed , though I b ` lieve I like t ` other one the best ! '' 
Poor Maude ! 
Quite a handsome property if Maude could have it at once . 
I wonder if she 's healthy , this Mrs. Hopkins , '' soliloquized J. C. , until at last , a new idea entered his mind , and striking his fist upon the table , he exclaimed , `` Of course she will . 
and J. C. De Vere frowned wrathfully upon the little imaginary Hopkinses who were to share the milkman 's fortune with Maude . 
Just then a girlish figure was seen beneath the trees in Dr. Kennedy 's yard , and glancing at the white cape bonnet , J. C. knew that it was Maude , the sight of whom drove young Hopkinsand the willeffectually from his mind . 
Maude had returned to the house , and was sitting with her brother , when the young man was announced . 
`` It influences some men , '' answered Maude , `` and though you may like me '' -- `` Like you , Maude Remington , '' he exclaimed , `` Like is a feeble word . 
Will you , Maude ? '' 
But Maude felt that she must have time for sober , serious reflection ; J. C. was not indifferent to her , and the thought was very soothing that she who had never aspired to the honor had been chosen from all others to be his wife . 
`` Wait awhile , '' answered Maude , coming to his side and laying her hand upon his shoulder . 
There was another storm of words , and then , as Maude still seemed firm in her resolution to do nothing hastily , J. C. took his leave . 
`` Louis , '' said Maude , but ere Louis could reply , she had changed her mind , and determined not to tell him that James De Vere alone stood between her and the decision J. C. pleaded for so earnestly . 
So she said : `` Shall I marry J. C. De Vere ? '' 
Mrs. Kelsey and Nellie had returned from the Lake , and bidding her brother say nothing of what he had heard , Maude went down to meet them . 
she asked , `` though of course you have not seen him . '' 
Maude was about to speak , when Hannah , delighted with a chance to disturb Nellie , answered for her . 
`` It 's my opinion that headache was all a sham , for you had n't been gone an hour , afore he was over here in the garden with Maude , where he staid ever so long . 
Nellie had not sufficient discernment to read the truth of this assertion in Maude 's crimson cheeks , but Mrs. Kelsey had , and very sarcastically she said : `` Miss Remington , I think , might be better employed than in trying to supplant her sister . '' 
`` I have not tried to supplant her , madam , '' answered Maude , her look of embarrassment giving way to one of indignation at the unjust accusation . 
continued Mrs. Kelsey , who suddenly remembered several little incidents which had heretofore passed unheeded , and which , now that she recalled them to mind , proved that J. C. De Vere was interested in Maude . 
`` Mr. De Vere can answer for himself , and I refer you to him , '' was Maude 's reply , as she walked away . 
`` Maude had done something , '' she knew , `` and it would n't be a bit improper for a woman as old as aunt Kelsey to go over and see how Mr. De Vere was , particularly as by this means she might find out why he had been there so long with Maude . '' 
J. C. was sitting near the window , watching anxiously for a glimpse of Maude , when his visitor was announced . 
`` Oh , in lounging , generally , he answered , while she continued , `` Hannah says you spent the morning there , and also a part of the afternoon . 
I went to see Maude , '' J. C. replied somewhat stiffly , for he began to see the drift of her remarks . 
There had been a time when a remark like this from the fashionable Mrs. Kelsey would have banished any girl from J. C. 's mind , for he was rather dependent on the opinion of others , but it made no difference now , and , warming up in Maude 's defence , he replied , `` I assure you , madam , I have entertained serious thoughts toward Miss Remington , and have this day asked her to be my wife . '' 
`` Confound them all , I do n't care what they say , '' and J. C. drove his knife-blade into the pine table , while he gave his reasons for having chosen Maude in preference to Nellie , or any one else he had ever seen . 
It was the night when Maude usually rehearsed for the coming Sabbath , and soon after her interview with her sister , she had gone to the church where she sought to soothe her ruffled spirits , by playing a most plaintive air . 
The music was singularly soft and sweet , and the heart of J. C. DeVere trembled to the sound , for he knew it was Maude who played -- Maude , who outweighed the tempting bait which Mrs. Kelsey offered , and with a magnanimity quite astonishing to himself , he answered , `` Povertywith Maude , rather than riches with another ! '' 
I am glad that I for one dare break your chain , and marry whom I please , '' and feeling more amiably disposed toward J. C. DeVere , than he had felt for many a day , the young man started for the church , where to his great joy he found Maude alone . 
She was not surprised to see him , nay , she was half expecting him , and the flush which deepened on her cheek as he came to her side , showed that his presence was not unwelcome . 
Human nature is the same everywhere , and though Maude was perhaps as free from its weaknesses as almost any one , the fact that her lover was so greatly coveted by others , increased rather than diminished her regard for him , and when he told her what had passed between himself and Mrs. Kelsey , and urged her to give him a right to defend her against that haughty woman 's attacks by engaging herself to him at once , she was more willing to tell him Yes , than she had been in the morning . 
`` But he will stand between us , '' she said , `` he will shield me from her anger , '' and grateful for so potent a protector , she fell asleep , dreaming alas , not of J. C. , but of him who called her Cousin Maude , and whose cousin she really was to be . 
So he railed at the innocent Maude , and after exhausting all the maxims which would at all apply to that occasion , he suggested sending for Mr. De Vere , and demanding an explanation . 
I can , if necessary , intimate to my friends that she has refused J. C. , who , in a fit of pique , has offered himself to Maude , and that will save Nellie from all embarrassment . 
He will soon tire of his new choice , and then '' -- `` I wo n't have him if he does , '' gasped Nellie , interrupting her aunt -- `` I wo n't have any body who has first proposed to Maude . 
I wish she 'd never come here , and if pa had n't brought that woman '' -- `` Helen ! '' 
and the doctor 's voice was very stern , for time had not erased from his heart all love for the blue-eyed Matty , the gentle mother of the offending Maude , and more than all , the mother of his boy -- `` Helen , that womanwas my wife , and you must not speak disrespectfully of her . '' 
Nellie answered by a fresh burst of tears , for her own conscience smote her for having spoken thus lightly of one who had ever been kind to her . 
The next morning when Maude as usual went down to superintend the breakfast , she was surprised to hear from Hannah that Mrs. Kelsey was going that day to Rochester , and that Nellie was to accompany her . 
I suppose that t ` other chap ai n't none of your marryin ' sort , '' and unconscious of the twinge her last words had inflicted Hannah carried the coffee-urn to the dining-room , followed by Maude , who was greeted with dark faces and frowning looks . 
Scarcely a word was spoken during breakfast , and when after it was over , Maude offered to assist Nellie in packing her trunks , the latter answered decisively , `` You 've done enough , I think . '' 
He had come over to see the `` lioness and her cub , '' as he styled Mrs. Kelsey and her niece , whose coolness was amply atoned for by the bright , joyous glance of Maude , to whom he whispered softly , `` Wo n't we have glorious times when they are gone ! '' 
`` You 'll wait some time , if you wait for that , '' muttered J. C. , as he returned to the house in quest of Maude , with whom he had a long and most delightful interview , for old Hannah , in unusually good spirits , expressed her willingness to see to every thing , saying to her young mistress , `` You go along now , and court a spell . 
Old Hannah was waxing sentimental , and with a heightened bloom upon her cheeks , Maude left her to her memories of Crockettand the bobolinks , while she went back to her lover . 
J. C. was well skilled in the little , delicate acts which tend to win and keep a woman 's heart , and in listening to his protestations of love , Maude forgot all else , and abandoned herself to the belief that she was perfectly happy . 
Only once did her pulses quicken as they would not have done had her chosen husband been all that she could wish , and that was when he said to her , `` I wrote to Jameslast night , telling him of my engagement . 
Much did Maude wonder what James would say , and it was not long ere her curiosity was gratified ; for scarcely four days were passed , when J. C. brought to her an unsealed note , directed to `` Cousin Maude . '' 
Cherish her , my cousin , as she ought to be cherished , and bring her sometime to my home , which will never boast so fair a mistress . '' 
and turning Maude 's face to the light , he continued , `` Yes , there are tears on your eyelashes . 
`` Nothing , nothing , '' answered Maude , `` only I am soglad your relatives like me . '' 
J. C. was easily deceived , so was Maude -- and mutually believing that nothing was the matter , J. C. drummed on the piano , while Maude tore open the note which James had written to her . 
It seemed so strange to think hewrote it , and Maude trembled violently , while the little red spots came out all over her neck and face , as she glanced at the words , `` My dear Cousin Maude . '' 
It was a kind , affectionate note , and told how the writer would welcome and love her as his cousin , while , at the same time , it chided her for not having answered the letter sent some weeks before . 
Poor , poor Maude ! 
She did not feel the summer air upon her brow -- did not hear the discordant notes which J. C. made upon the piano , for her whole soul was centered on the words , `` sadly disappointed , '' `` love you as my cousin , '' and `` claim a share of you for myself . '' 
Only for a moment though , and then recovering her composure , she said aloud , `` What does he mean ? 
`` I know it , I know it , '' hastily spoke J. C. , and coming to her side , he handed her the soiled missive saying , `` It came a long time ago , and was mislaid among my papers , until this letter recalled it to my mind . 
There is nothing in it of any consequence , I dare say , and had it not been sealed , I might , perhaps , have read it , for as the doctor says , `` it 's a maxim of mine , that a wifeshould have no secrets from her husband , '' Hey , Maude ? '' 
and he caressed her burning cheek , as she read the note , which , had it been earlier received , might have changed her whole after life . 
And still it was not one half as affectionate in its tone as was the last , for it began with , `` Cousin Maude '' and ended with `` Yours respectfully , '' but she knew he had been true to his promise , and without a suspicion that J. C. , had deceived her , she placed the letters in her pocket , to be read again when she was alone , and could measure every word and sentiment . 
That afternoon when she went to her chamber to make some changes in her dress , she found herself standing before the mirror much longer than usual , examining minutely the face which James De Vere had called beautiful . 
`` He thought so , or he would not have said it , but it is false , '' she whispered , `` even J. C. , never called me handsome ; '' and taking out the note that day received , she read it again , wondering why the name `` Cousin Maude '' did not sound as pleasantly as when it first was breathed into her ear . 
That night as she sat with Louis in her room , she showed the letters to him , at the same time explaining the reason why one of them was not received before . 
and in Maude 's voice there was a world of sadness . 
Maude hardly knew whether she were pleased or not with Louis ' reasoning . 
It was true though , she said , and inasmuch as James did not care for her , and she did not care for James , she was very glad she was engaged to J. C. ! 
And with reassured confidence in herself , she sat down and wrote an answer to that note , a frank impulsive , Maude like answer , which , nevertheless , would convey to James De Vere no idea how large a share of that young girl 's thoughts were given to himself . 
The next day there came to Maude a letter bearing the Canada post mark , together with the unmistakable hand-writing of Janet Hopkins . 
Maude had not heard of her for some time , and very eagerly she read the letter , laughing immoderately , and giving vent to sudden exclamations of astonishment at its surprising intelligence . 
-- `` a livin ' mother to a child born out of due season , '' so the delighted creature wrote , `` and what was better than all , it was a girl , and the Sunday before was baptised as Maude Matilda Remington Blodgett Hopkins , there being no reason , '' she said , `` why she should n't give her child as many names as the Queen of England hitched on to hers , beside that it was not at all likely that she would ever have another , and so she had improved this opportunity , and named her daughter in honor of Maude , Matty , Harry and her first husband Joel . 
But , '' she wrote , `` I do n't know what you 'll say when I tell you that my old man and some others have made me believe that seein ' I 've an heir of my own flesh and blood , I ought to change that will of mine , so I 've made another , and if Maude Matildadies you 'll have it yet . 
Scarcely had Maude finished reading this letter when J. C. came in , and she handed it to him . 
Still his love for Maude was , as yet , stronger than his love for money , and he only laughed heartily at the string of names which Janet had given to her offspring , saying , `` it was a pity it had n't been a boy , so she could have called him Jedediah Cleishbotham . '' 
`` He does not care for my money , '' Maude thought , and her heart went out toward him more lovingly than it had ever done before , and her dark eyes filled with tears , when he told her , as he ere long did , that he must leave the next day and return to Rochester . 
Maude could not tell why it was , that his words affected her unpleasantly , for she knew he was not rich , and she felt that she should respect him more if he really did bestir himself , but still she did not like his manner when speaking of the will , and her heart was heavy all the day . 
He was not tired of Maude , but he was tired of the monotonous life at Laurel Hill , and when his agent 's snmmons came it found him ready to go . 
He had secured a wife , not Nellie , but Maude , and determining to do do every thing honorably , he , on the morning of his departure , went to the doctor , to whom he talked of Maude , expressing his wish to marry her . 
Very coldly the doctor answered that `` Maude could marry whom she pleased . 
`` She was a splendid creature , '' he said , and he asked if the doctor knew her . 
`` I saw her as a child of seventeen , and again as a woman of twenty-five . 
She is fortynow , '' was the doctor 's answer , as he walked away , wondering if the Maude Glendower of to-day were greatly changed from the Maude of fifteen years ago . 
To J. C. 's active mind , a new idea was presented , and seeking out the other Maude -- his Maude -- he told her of his suspicion . 
`` She 'll never marry the doctor , '' said Maude , laughing , as she thought of an elegant woman leaving the world of fashion , to be mistress of that house . 
Still the idea followed her , and when at last J. C. had bidden her adieu , and gone to his city home , she frequently found herself thinking of the beautiful Maude Glendower , whose name , it seemed to her , she had heard before , though when or where she could not tell . 
Maude was ceasing to be an object of perfect indifference to him . 
She was an engaged young lady , and as such , entitled to more respect than he was wont to pay her , and as the days wore on , he began to have serious thoughts of making her his confidant and counsellor in a matter which he would never have entrusted to Nellie . 
Accordingly , one afternoon , when he found her sitting upon the piazza , he said , first casting an anxious glance around , to make sure no one heard him : `` Maude , I wish to see you alone for a few minutes . '' 
Wonderingly Maude followed him into the parlor , where her astonishment was in no wise diminished by his shutting the blinds , dropping the curtains , and locking the door ! 
Maude began to tremble , and when he drew his chair close to her side , she started up , asking to what this was a preliminary . 
Maude , I am going -- that is , I have every reason to believe -- or rather , I should say perhaps -- well , anyway , there is a prospect of my being married , '' and by the time this crisis was reached , the perspiration was dropping fast from his forehead and chin . 
asked Maude . 
Then returning to his seat , he told her a strange story of a marvellously beautiful young girl , with Spanish fire in her lustrous eyes , and a satin gloss on her blue-black curls . 
Her name was Maude Glendower , and years ago she won his love , leading him on and on until at last he paid her the highest honor a man can pay a woman -- he offered her his heart , his hand , his name . 
But she refused him -- scornfully , contemptuously refused him , and he learned afterward that she had encouraged him for the sake of bringing another man to terms ! 
`` I hated her then , '' said he , `` hated this Maude Glendower , for her deception ; but I could not forget her , and after Katy died , I sought her again . 
My shirts are all worn out , my coat is rusty , and last Sunday I discovered a hole in my pantaloons '' -- `` Dr. Kennedy , '' exclaimed Maude , interrupting him , `` You surely do not intend to present yourself before the fastidious Miss Glendower , with those old shabby clothes . 
So Maude , between whom and himself there was for the time being quite an amicable understanding , packed them nicely in his trunk , while Hannah and Louis looked on wondering what it could mean . 
To him , it seemed like trampling on the little grave beneath the willows , and it required all Maude 's powers of persuasion to dry his tears , and soothe the pain which every child must feel , when first they know that the lost mother , whose memory they so fondly cherish , is to be succeeded by another . 
The aunt , who had been to her a mother , had died a few months before , and as her annuity ceased with her death , Maude was almost wholly destitute . 
The limited means she possessed would only suffice to pay her board for a short time , and in this dilemma she thought of her old lover , and wondered if he could again be won . 
He was rich , she had always heard , and as his wife , she could still enjoy the luxuries to which she had been accustomed . 
She knew his sister -- they had met in the saloons of Saratoga , and though it hurt her pride to do it , she at last signified her willingness to be again addressed . 
It was many weeks ere Dr. Kennedy conquered wholly his olden grudge , but conquered it he had , and she sat expecting him on the night when first we introduced her to our readers . 
He had arrived in Troy on the western train , and written her a note announcing his intention to visit her that evening . 
Yes , Maude is there . 
She has lived with me ever since her mother died . 
`` Is Maude like her mother ? '' 
`` Mattie was blue-eyed and fair , while Maude is dark , and resembles her father , they say . '' 
`` I sha n't like her , I know , '' the lady thought , `` but the other two , '' how her heart bounded at the thoughts of folding them to her bosom . 
Louis Kennedy , weeping that his mother was forgotten , had nothing to fear from Maude Glendower , for a child of Matty Remington was a sacred trust to her , and when as the doctor bade her good night , he said again , `` You will find a great contrast between your home and mine , '' she answered , `` I shall be contented if Maude and Louis are there . '' 
But Maude Glendower could do with him what Katy and Matty could not have done , and after his return to Laurel Hill , he was more than once closeted with Maude , to whom he confided his plan of improving the place , asking her if she thought the profits of next year 's crop of wheat and wool would meet the whole expense . 
Maude guessed at random that it would , and , as money in prospect seems not quite so valuable as money in hand , the doctor finally concluded to follow out Maude Glendower 's suggestions , and greatly to the surprise of the neighbors , the repairing process commenced . 
Very regularly he wrote to Maude -- kind , loving letters , which helped to cheer her solitary life . 
No one spoke of Maude to J. C. , for no one knew of her existence , and both Mrs. Kelsey and Nellie , whom he frequently met , scrupulously refrained from mentioning her name . 
At first he felt annoyed , and more than once was tempted to tell of his engagement , but as time wore on , and he became more and more interested in city gaieties , he thought less frequently of the dark-eyed Maude , who , with fewer sources of amusement , was each day thinking more and more of him . 
Still , he was sure he loved her , and one morning near the middle of November , when he received a letter from her saying , `` I am sometimes very lonely , and wish that you were here , '' he started up with his usual impetuosity , and ere he was fully aware of his own intentions , he found himself ticketed for Canandaigua , and the next morning Louis Kennedy , looking from his window , and watching the daily stage as it came slowly up the hill , screamed out , `` He 's come -- he 's come . '' 
A few moments more , and Maude was clasped in J. C. 's arms . 
Kissing her forehead , her cheek , and her lips , he held her off and looked to see if she had changed . 
She had , and he knew it . 
Happiness and contentment are more certain beautifiers than the most powerful cosmetics , and under the combined effects of both , Maude was greatly improved . 
She was happy in her engagement , happy in the increased respect it brought her from her friends , and happy , too , in the unusual kindness of her step-father . 
All this was manifest in her face , and for the first time in his life , J. C. told her she was beautiful . 
`` If you only had more manner , and your clothes were fashionably made , you would far excel the city-girls , '' he said , a compliment which to Maude seemed rather equivocal . 
When he was there before , he had not presumed to criticize her style of dress , but he did so now , quoting the city belles , until , half in earnest , half in jest , Maude said to him , `` If you think so much of fashion , you ought not to marry a country girl . '' 
Maude colored deeply , thinking for the first time in her life that possibly J. C. might be ashamed of her , but his affectionate caresses soon drove all unpleasant impressions from her mind , and the three days that he staid with her passed rapidly away . 
He did not mention the will , but he questioned her of the five thousand which was to be hers on her eighteenth birthday , and vaguely hinted that he might need it to set himself up in business . 
He had made no arrangements for the future , he said , there was time enough in the spring , and promising to be with her again during the holidays , he left her quite uncertain as to whether she were glad he had visited her or not . 
The next day she was greatly comforted by a long letter from James , who wrote occasionally , evincing so much interest in `` Cousin Maude , '' that he always succeeded in making her cry , though why she could not tell , for his letters gave her more real satisfaction than did those of J. C. , fraught as the latter were with protestations of constancy and love . 
Slowly dragged the weeks , and the holidays were at hand , when she received a message from J. C. , saying he could not possibly come as he had promised . 
No reason was given for this change in his plan , and with a sigh of disappointment , Maude turned to a letter from Nellie , received by the same mail . 
After dwelling at length upon the delightful time she was having in the city , Nellie spoke of a fancy ball , to be given by her aunt during Christmas week . 
Mr. DeVere was to be Ivanhoe , she said , and she to be Rowena . 
`` You do n't know , '' she wrote , `` how interested J. C. is in the party . 
Maude knew the reason now why J. C. could not possibly come , and the week she had anticipated so much , seemed dreary enough , notwithstanding it was enlivened by a box of oranges and figs from her betrothed , and a long , affectionate letter from James De Vere , who spoke of the next Christmas , saying he meant she should spend it at Hampton . 
I want my mother to know you , Maude . 
She will like you , I am sure , for she always thinks as I do . '' 
This letter was far more pleasing to Maude 's taste than were the oranges and figs , and Louis was suffered to monopolize the latter -- a privilege which he appreciated as children usually do . 
The partition between the parlor and the large square bed-room was removed ; folding-doors were made between ; the windows were cut down ; a carpet was bought to match the one which Maude had purchased the summer before ; and then , when all was done , the doctor was seized with a fit of the blues , because it had cost so much . 
Hitherto , Maude had been his confidant , keeping her trust so well that no one at Laurel Hill knew exactly what his intentions were , and , as was very natural , immediately after his return , he went to her for sympathy in his disappointment . 
In short , Maude was penniless , and J. C. De Vere in despair . 
She had written to him immediately , and he had come , suggesting nothing , offering no advice , and saying nothing at first , except that `` the man was mighty mean , and he had never liked his looks . '' 
`` We can defer our marriage , '' sobbed Maude , whose heart throbbed painfully with every word he uttered . 
You need not wed a penniless bride , '' and Maude hid her face in her hands , while she awaited the answer to her suggestion . 
J. C. De Vere did love Maude Remington better than any one he had ever seen , and though he caught eagerly at the marriage deferred , he was not then willing to give her up , and , with one of his impetuous bursts ; he exclaimed , `` I will notbe released , though it may be wise to postpone our bridal day for a time , say until Christmas next , when I hope to be established in business , '' and , touched by the suffering expression of her white face , he kissed her tears away , and told her how gladly he would work for her , painting `` love in a cottage , '' with nothing else there , until he really made himself believe that he could live on bread and water with Maude , provided she gave him the lion 's share ! 
J. C. 's great faults were selfishness , indolence , and love of money , and Maude 's loss affected him deeply ; still , there was no redress , and playfully bidding her `` not to cry for the milkman 's spilled milk , '' he left her on the very day when Dr. Kennedy returned . 
Maude knew J. C. was keenly disappointed ; that he was hardly aware what he was saying , and she wept for him rather than for the money . 
It had always been a maxim of his not to make that man her guardian ; but women would do every thing wrong , and then , as if his own trials were paramount to hers , he bored her with the story of his troubles , to which she simply answered , `` I am sorry ; '' and this was all the sympathy either gained from the other ! 
In the course of a few days , Maude received a long letter from James De Vere . 
He had heard from J. C. of hismisfortune , and very tenderly he strove to comfort her , touching at once upon the subject which he naturally supposed lay heaviest upon her heart . 
The marriage need not be postponed , he said : `` There was room in his house and a place in his own and his mother 's affections for their `` Cousin Maude . '' 
She could live there as well as not . 
`` At all events , dear Maude , you need not dim the brightness of your eyes by tears , for all will yet be well . 
`` Noble man , '' was Maude 's exclamation , as she finished reading the letter , and if at that moment the two cousins rose up in contrast before her mind , who can blame her for awarding the preference to him who had penned those lines , and who thus kindly strove to remove from her pathway every obstacle to her happiness . 
Generous , kind and self-denying , he found his chief pleasure in doing others good , and he had written both to Maude and J. C. just as the great kindness of his heart had prompted him to write . 
He did not then know that he loved Maude Remington , for he had never fully analyzed the nature of his feelings toward her . 
He knew he admired her very much , and when he wrote the note J. C. withheld , he said to himself , `` If she answers this , I shall write again -- and again , and maybe '' -- he did not exactly know what lay beyond the maybe , so he added , `` we shall be very good friends . '' 
But not a volume in all those crowded shelves had power to interest him then , and with a strange disquiet , he wandered from room to room , until at last as the sun went down , he laid his throbbing temples upon his pillow , and in his feverish dreams , saw again the dark-eyed Maude sitting on her mother 's grave , her face upturned to him , and on her lip the smile that formed her greatest beauty . 
The next morning the headache was gone , and with a steady hand he wrote to his cousin and Maude , congratulations which he believed sincere . 
That J. C. was not worthy of the maiden he greatly feared , and he resolved to have a care of the young man , and try to make him what Maude 's husband ought to be , and when he heard of her misfortune , he stepped forward with his generous offer , which J. C. instantly refused . 
Thus he wrote to James , who mused long upon the words , `` A few months will make no difference , '' thinking within himself , `` If I were like other men , and was about to marry Maude , a few months would make a good deal of difference , but every one to their mind . '' 
`` Maude ! '' 
Maude 's eyes filled with tears , for J. C. 's conduct was not wholly satisfactory to her . 
She remembered his loud protestations of utter disregard for her money , and she could not help thinking how little his theory and practice accorded . 
He had not been to see her since his flying visit in March , and though he had written several times , his letters had contained little else save complaints against their `` confounded luck . '' 
She could not tell this to James DeVere , and she replied , `` He is very busy now , I believe , in trying to make some business arrangement with the lawyer in whose office he formerly studied . '' 
`` I am glad he has roused himself at last , '' answered James , `` he would not accept my offer , for which I am sorry , as I was anticipating much happiness in having my Cousin Maude at Hampton during the summer . 
`` No , '' said Maude , hesitatingly , `` or that is I have serious thoughts of teaching school , as I do not like to be dependent on Dr. Kennedy . 
James De Vere had once taught school for a few weeks , by way of experiment , and now as he recalled the heated room , the stiffling atmosphere , the constant care , and more than all , the noisy shout of triumph which greeted his ear on that memorable morning , when he found himself fastened out , and knew his rule was at an end , he shuddered at the thought of Maude 's being exposed to similar indignities , and used all his powers of eloquence to dissuade her from her plan . 
Maude was frank , open-hearted and impulsive , and emboldened by James ' kind , brotherly manner , she gave in a most childlike way , her reason for wishing to teach . 
`` If I am married next winter , '' she said , `` my wardrobe will need replenishing , for J. C. , would surely be ashamed to take me as I am , and I have now no means of my own for purchasing any thing . '' 
May I , Maude ? 
And if you do not like to stay with Dr. Kennedy , come to Hampton this summer and live with us , will you , Maude ? 
I want you there so much , '' and in the musical tones of his voice there was a deep pathos which brought the tears in torrents from Maude 's eyes , while she declined the generous offer she could not accept . 
Just then Dr. Kennedy appeared , he was ready to go , he said , and bidding Mr. De Vere good bye , Maude was soon on her way home , her spirits lighter and her heart happier for that chance meeting at the Hotel . 
One week later Mr. De Vere wrote to her , saying that if she still wished to teach , she could have the school at Hampton . 
He had seen the trustees , had agreed upon the price , and had even selected her a boarding place near by . 
This letter Maude took at once to her brother , from whom she had hitherto withheld her intention to teach , as she did not wish to pain him unnecessarily with the dread of a separation , which might never be . 
Deeply had he sympathized with her in her misfortune , whispering to her that two-thirds of his own inheritance should be hers . 
You wo n't be old , Maude , only twenty-seven , and I shall be proud when the people say that beautiful woman with eyes like stars is the crippled artist 's sister ! '' 
`` Maude will never marry him , I hope , '' he thought , and when she brought to him the letter from James De Vere , the noble little fellow conquered his own feelings , and with a hopeful heart as to the result of that summer 's teaching , he bade her go . 
So it was all arranged , and the next letter which went from Maude to J. C. carried the intelligence that his betrothed was going `` to turn country school-ma ` am , and teach the Hampton brats their A B C 's , '' so at last he said to Mrs. Kelsey and her niece , between whom and himself there was a perfectly good understanding , and to whom he talked of his future prospects without reserve . 
He was now a regular visitor at her house , and , lest he should suspect her design , she spoke often and respectfully of Maude , whose cause she seemed to have espoused , and when he came to her with the news of her teaching , she sympathized with him at once . 
`` It would be very mortifying , '' she said , `` to marry a district school-mistress , though there was some comfort in knowing that his friends were as yet ignorant of the engagement . '' 
Sixhappy weeks Maude had been a teacher , and though she knew J. C. did not approve her plan , she was more than repaid for his displeasure by the words of encouragement which James always had in store for her . 
Many times had she been to the handsome home of the De Vere 's , and the lady-mother , whom she at first so much dreaded to meet , had more than once stroked her silken curls , calling her `` my child , '' as tenderly as if she did indeed bear that relation to her . 
Gradually , James De Vere had learned how dear to him was the dark-eyed girl he called his `` Cousin Maude . '' 
Maude , too , was waking up , and the school-house witnessed more than one fierce struggle between her duty and her inclinations ; for , with woman 's tact , she knew that she was not indifferent to James De Vere ; but she was plighted to another , and if he bade her keep her word , she would do so , e ` en though it broke her heart . 
Maude saw them as they passed the school-house in the village omnibus ; saw , too , how resolutely J. C 's head was turned away , as if afraid their eyes would meet . 
`` He wishes to show his resentment , but of course he 'll visit me ere he returns , '' she thought . 
And many times that day she cast her eyes in the direction of Hampton Park , as the DeVere residence was often called . 
But she looked in vain , and with a feeling of disappointment she dismissed her school , and glad to be alone , laid her head upon the desk , falling ere long asleep , for the day was warm , and she was very tired . 
So quietly she slept , that she did not hear the roll of wheels , nor the sound of merry voices , as the party from the city rode by on their way to the depot . 
Neither half an hour later , did she hear the hasty footstep which crossed the threshold of the door ; but when a hand was laid upon her shoulder , and a well-known voice bade her awake , she started up , and saw before her James DeVere . 
He had been to her boarding-place , he said , and not finding her there , had sought her in the school-house . 
she repeated . 
`` He 's a villain , '' thought James DeVere , but he answered simply , `` he had not time , and so wrote you instead , '' and sitting down beside her , he regarded her with a look in which pity , admiration , and love were all blended -- the former predominating at that moment , and causing him to lay his hand caressingly on her forehead , saying , as he did so , `` Your head aches , do n't it , Maude ? '' 
Maude 's heart was already full , and at this little act of sympathy , she burst into tears , while James , drawing her to his side , and resting her head upon his bosom , soothed her as he would have done had she been his only sister . 
He fancied that he knew the cause of her grief , and his heart swelled with indignation toward J. C. , who had that day shown himself unworthy of a girl like Maude . 
He had come to Hampton without any definite idea as to whether he should see her or not ere his return , but when , as the omnibus drew near the schoolhouse , and Maude was plainly visible through the open window , one of the ladies made some slighting remark concerning school-teachers generally , he determined not to hazard an interview , and quieted his conscience by thinking he would come out in a few days and make the matter right . 
`` Yes , a milkman 's heiress , '' said J. C. , with a slightly scornful emphasis on the name which he himself had given to Maude , at a time when a milkman 's money seemed as valuable to him as that of any other man . 
I can not see her to-day , but with your permission I will pen a few lines by way of explanation , '' and , glad to escape from the rebuking glance he knew he so much deserved , he stepped into his cousin 's library , where he wrote the note James gave to Maude . 
Under some circumstances it would have been a very unsatisfactory message , but with her changed feelings toward the writer , and James De Vere sitting at her side , she scarcely noticed how cold it was , and throwing it down , tore open Louis 's letter which had come in the evening mail . 
It was very brief , and hastily perusing its contents , Maude cast it from her with a cry of horror and disgust -- then catching it up , she moaned , `` Oh , must I go ! 
asked Mr. De Vere , and pointing to the lines , Maude bade him read . 
He did read , and as he read , his own cheek blanched , and he wound his arm closely round the maiden 's waist as if to keep her there , and thus save her from danger . 
`` Father is so sick , '' he wrote , `` and he says , tell Maude for humanity 's sake to come . '' 
If there was one disease more than another of which Maude stood in mortal fear , it was the smallpox , and her first impulse was , `` I will not go . '' 
But when she reflected that Louis , too , might take it , and need her care , her resolution changed , and moving away from her companion , she said firmly , `` I must go , for if any thing befall my brother , how can I answer to our mother for having betrayed my trust . 
Mr. DeVere was about to expostulate , but she prevented him by saying , `` Do not urge me to stay , but rather help me to go , for I must leave Hampton to-morrow . 
You will get some one to take my place , as I , of course , shall not return , and if I have it -- '' Here she paused , while the trembling of her body showed how terrible to her was the dread of the disease . 
`` Maude Remington , '' said Mr. DeVere , struck with admiration by her noble , self-sacrificing spirit , `` I will not bid you stay , for I know it would be useless , but if that which you so much fear comes upon you , if the face now so fair to look upon be marred and disfigured until not a lineament is left of the once beautiful girl , come back to me . 
As he spoke , he stretched his arms involuntarily toward her , and scarce knowing what she did , she went forward to the embrace . 
Very lovingly he folded her for a moment to his bosom , then turning her face to the fading sunlight which streamed through the dingy window , he looked at it wistfully and long , as if he would remember every feature . 
Pushing back the silken curls which clustered around her forehead , he kissed her twice , and then releasing her , said ; `` Forgive me , Maude , if I have taken more than a cousin 's liberty with you , I could not help it . '' 
Bewildered at his words and manner , Maude raised her eyes wonderingly to his , and looking into the shining orbs , he thought how soft , how beautiful they were , but little , little did he dream their light would e'er be quenched in midnight darkness . 
Awhile longer they talked together , Mr. De Vere promising to send a servant to take her home in the morning . 
Then , as the sun had set , and the night shadows were deepening in the room , they bade each other good-bye , and ere the next day 's sun was very high in the heavens , Maude was far on her way to Laurel Hill . 
Nellie had been home for a week or two , but at the first alarm she fled , rushing headlong through the hall and down the stairs , unmindful of the tremulous voice , which cried imploringly , `` Do n't leave me , daughter , to die alone ! '' 
Silent , desolate and forsaken the old house looked as Maude approached it , and she involuntarily held her breath as she stepped into the hall , whose close air seemed laden with infection . 
She experienced no difficulty in finding the sick room , where Louis ' cry of delight , John 's expression of joy , and the sick man 's whispered words , `` God bless you , Maude , '' more than recompensed her for the risk she had incurred . 
Gradually her fear subsided , particularly when she learned that it was in fact the varioloid . 
Had it been possible to remove her brother from danger , she would have done so , but it was too late now , and she suffered him to share her vigils , watching carefully for the first symptoms of the disease in him . 
In this manner nearly two weeks passed away , and the panic stricken villagers were beginning to breathe more freely , when it was told them one day that Maude and Louis were both smitten with the disease . 
Dr. Kennedy was by this time so much better , that Louis was taken to his apartment , where he ministered to him himself , while the heroic Maude was left to the care of John . 
Every thing he could do for her he did , but his heart sunk within him when he saw how fast her fever came on , and heard her , in her sleep , mourn for her mother , to hold her aching head . 
`` She must n't die , '' he said , and over his dark skin the tears rolled like rain , as raising his eyes to the ceiling , he cried imploringly , `` Will the good Father send some one to help ? '' 
The prayer of the weak African was heard ; and , ere the sun went down , a man of noble mien and noble heart stood at the maiden 's bedside , bathing her swollen face , pushing back her silken curls , counting her rapid pulses , and once , when she slept , kissing her parched lips , e ` en though he knew that with that kiss , he inhaled , perhaps , his death ! 
James De Vere had never , for a day , lost sight of Maude . 
Immediately after her return he had written to the physician , requesting a daily report , and when , at last , he learned that she was ill , and all alone , he came unhesitatingly , presenting a striking contrast to the timid J. C. , who had heard of her illness , and , at first , dared not open the letter which his cousin wrote , apprising him of Maude 's affliction But when he reflected that he could be re-vaccinated , and thus avert the dreaded evil , he broke the seal , and read , commenting as follows ; `` Jim isa splendid fellow , though I ca n't see why he takes so much interest in her . 
Of course she 'll be marked , and look like a fright . 
I 'd help her if I could , '' and , as the better nature of J. C. came over him , he added , mournfully : `` What if she should die ? '' 
But Maude did not die ; and at the expiration of ten days , she was so far out of danger , that James De Vere yielded to the importunity of his mother , who , in an agony of terror , besought him to return . 
When first he came to her bedside , Maude had begged of him to leave her , and not risk his life in her behalf ; but he silenced her objections then , and now when he bade her adieu , he would not listen to her protestations of gratitude . 
So saying , he turned away , feeling happier than he could well express , that Maude had not only escaped from death , but that there would be no marks left to tell how near the ravager had been . 
Scarcely had the door closed on him , when , emboldened by his last words to ask a question she greatly wished , yet dreaded to ask , Maude turned to John and said , `` Am I much pitted ? '' 
Rolling up his eyes , and wholly mistaking her meaning , John replied , `` I ai n't no great of a physiognomer , but when a thing is as plain as day , I can discern it as well as the next one , and if that ar ' chap hai n't pitiedyou , and done a heap more 'n that , I 'm mistaken . '' 
`` But , '' continued Maude , smiling at his simplicity , `` I mean shall I probably be scarred ? '' 
said Maude , `` is he disfigured ? '' 
Thus relieved of her immediate fears , Maude asked many questions concerning Louis , who she learned had not been very sick . 
`` You can see him afore long I reckon , '' said John , and in a few days she was able to join him in the sitting room below . 
As if to make amends for this she exerted herself to cleanse the house from every thing which could possibly inspire fear on the villagers , and by the last of August , there was scarce a trace left of the recent scourge , save the deep scar on the end of the doctor 's nose , one or two marks on Louis 's face , and a weakness of Maude 's eyes , which became at last a cause of serious alarm . 
But Maude 's eyes were not sore -- they were merely weak , while the pain in the eyeball was sometimes so intense as to wring from her a cry of suffering . 
Gradually there crept into her heart a horrid fear that her sight was growing dim , and often in the darkness of the night she wept most bitterly , praying that she might not be blind . 
`` Oh , Louis , '' she said to her brother one day , `` I would so much rather die than to be blind , and never see you any more -- never see the beautiful world I love so much . 
And so the other Maude was left to battle with the terrible fear which was strengthened every day . 
At length J. C. roused not so much by the touching letter which she wrote him , as by the uncertain hand-writing , came himself , bringing with him a physician , who carefully examined the soft black eyes , which could not now endure the light , then shaking his head , he said gravely , `` There is still some hope , but she must go to the city , where I can see her every day . '' 
That wet day had come at last -- not to him , but to another -- and without a moment 's hesitation , he counted out the ten golden eagles which his purse contained , and , going back to Maude , placed them in her hand , saying : `` Go to Rochester , Miss Maude . 
It was a noble act , and it shamed the paler faces who witnessed it , but they offered no remonstrance , though Maude did , refusing to accept it , until Louis said : `` Take it , sister -- take it , and when I 'm twenty-one I 'll give to him ten times ten golden eagles . '' 
The necessary arrangements were quickly made , and ere a week was passed , Maude found herself in Rochester , and an inmate of Mrs. Kelsey 's family ; for , touched with pity , that lady had offered to receive her , and during her brief stay , treated her with every possible attention . 
The denton the nose grew red a moment , and then the doctor , perfectly intoxicated with the beauty of his bride , answered , `` No , Maude , I married you . '' 
`` But , '' gasped the doctor , `` the one in the back parlor is bran new -- has scarcely been used at all , and it is a maxim of mine '' -- `` Your maximis good , undoubtedly , '' interrupted the lady , `` but the chambers all need recarpeting , and this will exactly fit Maude 's room , which I intend fixing beautifully before she returns . '' 
Here she shivered and coughed quite naturally , after which she returned to the charge , saying , `` her family were consumptive , and she could not endure the cold . '' 
One day he found her giving directions to two or three men who were papering , painting , and whitewashing Maude 's room , and then , as John remarked , he seemed more like himself than he had done before since his last marriage . 
`` If Maude is going to be blind , '' he said , `` it can make no difference with her how her chamber looks , and 't is a maxim of mine to let well enough alone . '' 
`` Why , I told you I was going to fit up Maude 's room . 
She is coming home in a week , you know , and I am preparing a surprise . 
I have ordered a few pieces of light furniture from the cabinet-maker 's , and I think her chamber would look nicely if the walls were only a little higher . 
`` Ki , aint him cotchin ' it good ? '' 
was John 's mental comment , as he daily watched the proceedings , and while Hannah pronounced him `` the hen-peck-ed-estman she had ever seen , '' the amused villagers knew that willhad met will , and been conquered ! 
Maude ` schamber was ready at last , and very inviting it looked with its coat of fresh paint , its cheerful paper , bright carpet , handsome bedstead , marble washstand , and mahogany bureau , on which were arranged various little articles for the toilet . 
Nellie 's last letter had been rather encouraging , and Maude herself had appended her name at its close . 
Though fading fast , the light was not yet quenched in Maude 's eyes , and very wistfully she scanned the face of the speaker , while her hands moved caressingly over each feature , as she said , `` I will love you , beautiful lady , though you can never be to me what my gentle mother was . '' 
Her step-mother 's evident preference for Maude had greatly offended the selfish Nellie , who coldly answered , `` Do n't trouble yourself , madam . 
Although unwilling , usually , to be led , Maude yielded now , and suffered herself to be conducted to the chamber where Louis watched for her coming . 
She could see enough to know there was a change , and clasping her companion 's hand , she said , `` I am surely indebted to you for this surprise . '' 
`` Maude , Maude ! '' 
and the tones of Louis ' voice trembled with joy , as stretching his arms toward her , he cried , `` You cansee . '' 
Guided more by the sound than by actual vision , Maude flew like lightning to his side , and kneeling before him , hid her face in his lap , while he bent fondly over her , beseeching her to say if she could see . 
I ca n't -- I ca n't , for who will care for poor , blind , helpless Maude ? '' 
`` She 's a beautiful woman , Maude , and a good one , I am sure , for she cried so hard over mother 's grave , and her voice was so gentle when , just as though she had known our mother , she said , `` Darling Matty , I willbe kind to your children . '' 
`` Ah , that I will -- I will , '' came faintly from the hall without , where Maude Glendower stood , her eyes riveted upon the upturned face of Maude , and her whole body swelling with emotion . 
A sad heritage had been bequeathed to her -- a crippled boy and a weak , blind girl -- but in some respects she was a noble woman , and as she gazed upon the two , she resolved that so long as she should live , so long should the helpless children of Matty Remington have a stead-fast friend . 
Hearing her husband 's voice below , she glided down the stairs , leaving Louis and Maude really alone . 
`` I have released him , '' answered Maude . 
`` I am nothing to him now , '' and very calmly she proceeded to tell him of the night when she had said to Mr. De Vere , `` My money is gone -- my sight is going too , and I give you back your troth , making you free to marry another , Nellie , if you choose . 
Though secretly pleased at her offering to give him up , J. C. made a show of resistance , but she had prevailed at last , and with the assurance that he should always esteem her highly , he consented to the breaking of the engagement , and the very next afternoon , rode out with Nellie Kennedy . 
`` He will marry her , I think , '' Maude said , as she finished narrating the circumstances , and looking into her calm , unruffled face , Louis felt sure that she had outlived her love for one who had proved himself as fickle as J. C. De Vere . 
`` He is , '' answered Maude . 
Awhile longer they conversed , and then they were summoned to supper , Mrs. Kennedy coming herself for Maude , who did not refuse to be assisted by her . 
`` The wind hurt my eyes -- they will be better to-morrow , '' she said , and , with her old sunny smile , she greeted her step-father , and then turned to Hannah and John , who had come in to see her . 
The morrow brought no improvement , neither the next day , nor the next , and as the world grew dim , there crept into her heart a sense of utter desolation , which neither the tender love of Maude Glendower , nor yet the untiring devotion of Louis , could in any degree dispel . 
Maude was awake , and advancing to her side , he bade her a `` Merry Christmas , '' playfully chiding her the while for having slept so late . 
A wild , started expression flashed over her face , as she said : `` Late , Louis ! 
Louis did not understand her , and he answered , `` Morning , yes . 
and Maude 's lips quivered with fear , as springing from her pillow , she whispered faintly , `` Lead me to the window . '' 
He complied with her request , watching her curiously , as she laid both hands in the warm sunshine , which bathed her fair , round arms , and shone upon her raven hair . 
She feltwhat she could not see , and Louis Kennedy ne'er forgot the agonized expression of the white , beautiful face , which turned toward him , as the wretched Maude moaned piteously , `` Yes , brother , 't is morning to you , but dark , dark night to me . 
She did not faint , she did not shriek , but she stood there rigid and immovable , her countenance giving fearful token of the terrible storm within . 
She was battling fiercely with her fate , and until twice repeated , she did not hear the childish voice which said to her pleadingly , `` Do n't look so , sister . 
`` Hope , '' she repeated bitterly , turning her sightless eyes toward him , `` There is no hope but death . '' 
`` Maude , '' and Louis 's voice was like a plaintive harp , so mournful was its tone , `` Maude , once in the very spot where mother is lying now , you said , because I was a cripple , you would love me all the more . 
I will be your light -- your eyes , and when James De Vere comes back '' -- `` No , no , no , '' moaned Maude , sinking upon the floor . 
`` Then give me back my sight , oh , give me back my sight , '' and Maude clasped her mother 's hands imploringly . 
Ere long she grew more calm , and suffered herself to be dressed as usual , but she would not admit any one to her room , neither on that day nor for many succeeding days . 
At length , however , this feeling wore away , and in the heartfelt sympathy of her family and friends , she found a slight balm for her grief . 
Even the Doctor was softened , and when Messrs. Beebe & Co. sent in a bill of ninety-five dollars for various articles of furniture , the frown upon his face gave way when his wife said to him , `` It was for Maude , you know , poor Maude ! '' 
`` Poor Maude ! '' 
seemed to be the sentiment of the whole household , and Nellie herself said it many a time , as with unwonted tenderness she caressed the unfortunate girl , fearing the while lest she had done her a wrong , for she did not then understand the nature of Maude 's feelings for J. C. DeVere , to whom Nellie was now engaged . 
He did not disguise his former love for Maude , neither did he pretend to have outlived it , but he said he could not wed a blind girl . 
And Nellie , forgetting her assertion that she would never marry one who had first proposed to Maude , was only too much pleased to answer Yes.And when J. C. insisted upon an early day , she named the fifth of March , her twentieth birthday . 
She was to be married at home , and as the preparations for the wedding would cause a great amount of bustle and confusion in the house , it seemed necessary that Maude should know the cause , and with a beating heart Nellie went to her one day to tell the news . 
Very composedly Maude listened to the story , and then as composedly replied , `` I am truly glad , and trust you will be happy . '' 
returned Maude . 
This answer was very quieting to Nellies conscience , and in unusually good spirits she abandoned herself to the excitement which usually precedes a wedding . 
Mattie 's piano had been removed to Maude 's chamber , and its place supplied by a new and costly instrument , which the crafty woman made her husband believe was intended by Mrs. Kelsey who selected it as a bridal present for her niece . 
The doctor probably thought so too , for he became comparatively submissive , though he visited often the sunken graves , where he found a mournful solace in reading `` Katy , wife of Dr. Kennedy , aged twenty-nine , '' -- `` Matty , second wife of Dr. Kennedy , aged thirty , '' and once he was absolutely guilty of wondering how the words `` Maude , third wife of Dr. Kennedy , aged 41 , '' would look . 
But he repented him of the wicked thought , and when on his return from his `` grave-yard musings , '' Maude , aged 41 asked him for the twenty dollars which she saw a man pay to him that morning , he gave it to her without a word . 
Maude Remington had secured a place in his affections which Nellie could not fill , and though he had no wish to marry her now , he tried to make himself believe that but for her misfortune , she should still have become his wife . 
`` Jimwould marry her , I dare say , even if she were blind as a bat , '' he said , `` but then he is able to support her , '' and reminded by this of an unanswered letter from his cousin , who was still in New Orleans , he sat down and wrote , telling him of Maude 's total blindness , and then , almost in the next sentence saying that his wedding was fixed for the fifth of March . 
Two weeks or more went by , and then there came an answer , fraught with sympathy for Maude , and full of commendation for J. C. , who `` had shown himself a man . '' 
Accompanying the letter was a box containing a most exquisite set of pearls for the bride , together with a diamond ring , on which was inscribed , `` Cousin Maude . '' 
`` Ai n't I in a deuced scrape , '' said J. C. , as he examined the beautiful ornaments , `` Nellie would be delighted with them , but she sha n't have them , they are not hers . 
I 'll write to Jim at once , and tell him the mistake , '' and seizing his pen , he dashed off a few lines , little guessing how much happiness they would carry to the far off city , where daily and nightly James De Vere fought manfully with the love that clung with a deathlike grasp to the girl J. C. had forsaken , the poor , blind , helpless Maude . 
Both Mrs. Kennedy and Nellie had urged Maude to be present at the ceremony , but she shrank from the gaze of strangers , and preferred remaining in her room , an arrangement quite satisfactory to J. C. , who did not care to meet her then . 
It seemed probable that some of the guests would go up to see her , and knowing this , Mrs. Kennedy had arranged her curls and dress with unusual care , saying to her as she kissed her pale cheek , `` You are far more beautiful than the bride . '' 
And Maude was beautiful . 
Recent suffering and nonexposure to the open air had imparted a delicacy to her complexion , which harmonized well with the mournful expression of her face , and the idea of touching helplessness which her presence inspired . 
Her long , fringed eyelashes rested upon her cheek , and her short , glossy curls were never more becomingly arranged than now , when stepping backward a pace or two , Mrs. Kennedy stopped a moment to admire her again , ere going below where her presence was already needed . 
The din of voices grew louder in the hall , there was a tread of many feet upon the stairs , succeeded by a solemn hush , and Maude , listening to every sound , knew that the man to whom she had been plighted , was giving to another his marriage vow . 
She had no love for J. C. De Vere , but as she sat there alone in her desolation , and thoughts of her sister 's happiness rose up in contrast to her own dark , hopeless lot , who shall blame her if she covered her face with her hands , and wept most bitterly . 
Poor Maude ! 
He was not expected at the wedding , but it would be a glad surprise , he knew , and he pressed untiringly on , thinking but one thought , and that , how he would comfort the poor , blind Maude . 
He did not know that even then her love belonged to him , but he could win it , perhaps , and then away to sunny France , where many a wonderful cure had been wrought , and might be wrought again . 
James De Vere -- the name was echoed from lip to lip , but did not penetrate the silent chamber where Maude sat weeping yet . 
A rapid glance through the rooms assured the young man that she was not there : and when the summons to supper was given , he went to Louis and asked him for his sister . 
said Mr. De Vere , and following his guide , he was soon opposite the door of Maude 's room . 
By this time they stood within the chamber , but so absorbed was Maude in her own grief , that she did not hear her brother , until he bent over her and whispered in her ear , `` Wake , sister , if you 're sleeping . 
She had no need to ask of him who had come . 
She knew intuitively , and starting up , her unclosed eyes flashed eagerly around the room , turning at last toward the door where she felt that he was standing . 
she said at last , as her listening ear caught no new sound . 
`` Here , Maude , here , '' and gliding to her side , Mr. De Vere wound his arm around her , and kissing her lips , called her by the name to which she was getting accustomed , and which never sounded so soothingly as when breathed by his melodious voice . 
`` My poor , blind Maude , '' was all he said , but by the clasp of his warm hand , by the tear she felt upon her cheek , and by his very silence she knew how deeply he sympathized with her . 
The interview between the two was short , for some of Maude 's acquaintance came up to see her , but it sufficed for Mr. De Vere to learn all that he cared particularly to know then . 
Maude did not love J. C. , whose marriage with another caused her no regret , and this knowledge made the future seem hopeful and bright . 
It was not the time to speak of that future to her , but he bade her take courage , hinting that his purse should never be closed until every possible means had been used for the restoration of her sight . 
What wonder then , if she dreamed that night that she could see again , and that the good angel by whose agency this blessing had been restored to her , was none other than James De Vere . 
J. C. and Nellie were gone , but ere they had left , the former sought an interview with Maude , whose placid brow he kissed tenderly , as he whispered in her ear : `` Fate decreed that you should not be my wife , but I have made you my sister , and , if I mistake not , another wishes to make you my cousin . '' 
asked James , and J. C. replied : `` I mean that Iand not you will have a Cousin Maude . 
`` I once called you my cousin , Maude , '' the deep-toned voice said , `` and I thought it the sweetest name I had ever heard , but there is a nearer , dearer name which I would give to you , even my wife -- Maude -- shall it be ? '' 
Maude knew he was in earnest , and was about to answer him , when along the hall there came the sound of little crutches , and over her face there flitted a shadow of pain . 
`` Let him decide , '' was Maude 's answer , as the crutches struck the soft carpet of the room . 
`` Louis , '' said Mr. De Vere , `` shall Maude go with me to Europe as my wife ? '' 
Maude could no longer refuse , and she half fancied she saw the flashing of the diamonds , when James placed upon her finger the ring , which bore the inscription of `` Cousin Maude . '' 
`` We will go in it , '' he said , `` my blind bird , Louis and I , '' and he parted lovingly the silken tresses of her to whom this new appellation was given . 
There was much in the future to anticipate , and much in the past which he wished to talk over ; so he stayed with her late that night , and on passing through the lower hall was greatly surprised to see Mrs. Kennedy still sitting in the parlor . 
She had divined the object and result of his visit , and the moment he was gone , she glided up the stairs to the room where Maude was quietly weeping for very joy . 
The story of the engagement was soon told , and winding her arm around Maude 's neck , Mrs. Kennedy said , `` I rejoice with you , daughter , in your happiness , but I shall be left so desolate when you and Louis are both gone . '' 
Just then her eye caught the ring upon Maude 's finger , and taking it in her hand , she admired its chaste beauty , and was calculating its probable cost , when glancing at the inside , she started suddenly , exclaiming , `` Cousin Maude '' -- that is my name -- the one by which he always called me . 
and as the throng of memories that name awakened came rushing over her , the impulsive woman folded the blind girl to her bosom , saying to her , `` My child , my child , you should have been ! '' 
`` I do not understand you , '' said Maude , and Mrs. Kennedy replied , `` It is not meet that we should part ere I tell you who and what I am . 
`` It seemed familiar to me when J. C. De Vere first told me of you , '' answered Maude , but I can not recall any particular time when I heard it spoken . 
Listen to me , Maude , while I tell you of the past . 
She loved me -- this little blue-eyed girl -- and when your brother first spoke to me , I seemed again to hear her voice whispering in my ear , ` I love you , beautiful Maude . '' ' 
I loved your father , Maude , and this was my great error . 
`` I know it -- I know it , '' returned Maude , `` he told me that when he first talked with me of you , but I did not suppose the dark-eyed student was my father . '' 
`` It was none other , '' said Mrs. Kennedy , `` and you can form some conception of my love for him , when I tell you that it has never died away , but is as fresh within my heart this night , as when I walked with him upon the College Green , and he called me ` Cousin Maude , ' for hegave me that name because of my fondness for Mattie , and he sealed it with a kiss . 
Mattie was present at that time , and had I not been blind , I should have seen how his whole soul was bound up in her , even while kissing me . 
I regarded her as a child , and so she was , but men sometimes love children , you know . 
When she was fifteen , she left New Haven . 
I , too , had ceased to be a school-girl , but I still remained in the city and wrote to her regularly , until at last , your father came to me , and with the light of a great joy shining all over his face , told me she was to be his bride on her sixteenth birthday . 
She would have written it herself , he said , only she was a bashful little creature , and would rather he should tell me . 
Mattie Reed was preferred to me , and while my Spanish blood boiled at the fancied indignity , I said many a harsh thing of her -- I called her designing , deceitful , and false ; and then in my frenzy quitted the room . 
Turn away , Maude , turn away ! 
and with a shudder Maude unwound the arm which so closely encircled her . 
`` No , Maude , no . 
My letter did not reach them until you had been baptized Matilda , which was the name of your mother and grandmother , but , to prove their goodness , they ever after called you Maude . '' 
`` In Vernon , I am sure I did , '' answered Maude , `` but I was then too young to receive a very vivid impression , and after we came here , mother , I fear , was too unhappy to talk much of the past . '' 
`` I understand it , '' answered Maude Glendower , and over her fine features there stole a hard , dark look , as she continued , `` I can see how one of her gentle nature would wither and die in this atmosphere , and forgive me , Maude , she never loved your father as I loved him , for had he called me wife , Ishould never have been here . 
asked Maude ; and the lady answered , `` For Louis 's sake and yours I came . 
She spoke bitterly , and Maude knew that Dr. Kennedy had more than met his equal in that woman of iron will . 
`` Maude -- Mrs. Kennedy , do you know what time it is ? '' 
Afterthe night of which we have written , the tie of affection between Mrs. Kennedy and the blind girl was stronger than before , and when the former said to her husband , `` Maude must have an outfit worthy of a rich man 's step-daughter , '' he knew by the tone of her voice that remonstrance was useless , and answered meekly , `` I will do what is right , but do n't be too extravagant , for Nellie 's clothes almost ruined me , and I had to pay for that piano yesterday . 
Then , touched perhaps by the submissive expression of his face , she added , `` As Maude is blind , she will not need as much as if she were going at once into society . 
Maude was a great favorite with John , and when he heard that she was going away forever , he went up to the woodshed chamber where no one could see him , and seating himself upon a pile of old shingles , which had been put there for kindling , he cried like a child . 
`` It 'll be mighty lonesome , knowin ' she 's gone for good , '' he said , `` for , though she 'll come back agin , she 'll be married , and when a gal is married , that 's the last on 'em . 
In short , John contemplated having his daguerreotype taken as a bridal present for Maude . 
When Mr. De Vere heard of John 's generosity to Maude in giving her the golden eagles , he promptly paid them back , adding five more as interest , and at the same time asking him if he would not like to accompany them to Europe . 
Mrs. Kennedy says Maude 's wardrobe will cost two hundred dollars . '' 
`` I shall attend to Maude 's wants myself , and if you are not able to bear Louis 's expenses , I will willingly do it for the sake of having him with his sister . 
Mr. De Vere remained firm in his intention to defray all Maude 's expenses , and he delegated to Mrs. Kennedy the privilege of purchasing whatever she thought was needful . 
Her selections were usually in good taste , and in listening to her enthusiastic praises , Maude enjoyed her new dresses almost as much as if she had really seen them . 
She could not see the sunlight of Spring streaming into the room , neither could she see the sunlight of love shining over the face of James De Vere , nor yet the earnest gaze of those who thought her so beautiful in her helplessness , but she could feel it all , and the long eyelashes resting on her cheek were wet with tears , when a warm kiss was pressed upon her lips , and a voice murmured in her ear , `` My wife -- my darling Maude . '' 
He could not even summon to his aid a maxim with which to season his farewell , and bidding a kind good-by to Maude , he sought the privacy of his chamber , where he could weep alone in his desolation . 
Hannah and John grieved to part with the travelers , but the latter was somewhat consoled by the gracious manner with which Maude had accepted his gift . 
`` I can not see it , '' she said , `` but when I open the casing , I shall know your kind , honest face is there , and it will bring me many pleasant memories of you . '' 
`` Heaven bless you , Miss Maude , '' answered John , struggling hard to keep back the tears he deemed it unmanly to shed . 
`` Heaven bless you , but if you keep talking so book-like and good , I 'll bust out a cryin ' , I know , for I 'm nothin ' but an old fool anyhow , '' and wringing her hand , he hurried off into the woodshed chamber , where he could give free vent to his grief . 
Through the harbor , down the bay , and out upon the sea , a noble vessel rides ; and as the evening wind comes dancing o'er the wave , it sweeps across the deck , kissing the cheek of a brown-eyed boy , and lifting the curls from the brow of one , whose face , upturned to the tall man at her side , seems almost angelic , so calm , so peaceful is its expression of perfect bliss . 
They knew it by the constant drooping of her eyelids , by the graceful motion of her hand as it groped in the air , and more than all , by the untiring watchfulness of the husband and brother who constantly hovered near . 
It seemed terrible that so fair a creature should be blind ; and like the throb of one great heart did the sympathy of that vessel 's crew go out toward the gentle Maude , who , in her new-born happiness , forgot almost the darkness of the world without , of if she thought of it , looked forward to a time when hope said that she should see again . 
So , leaving her upon the sea , speeding away to sunny France , we glance backward for a moment to the lonely house where Maude Glendower mourns for Harry 's child , and where the father thinks often of his boy , listening in vain for the sound which once was hateful to his ear , the sound of Louis 's crutches . 
And so the breeze blows gently o'er the bark thus followed by black John 's prayers -- the skies look brightly down upon it -- the blue waves ripple at its side , until at last it sails into its destined port ; and when the apple-blossoms are dropping from the trees , and old Hannah lays upon the grass to bleach the fanciful whitespread which her own hands have knit for Maude , there comes a letter to the lonely household , telling them that the feet of those they love , have reached the shores of the old world . 
But the crowd still professed their ignorance , and , pausing a moment , John said , with a deprecating manner : `` I 'll tell you the first word , and you 'll surely guess the rest : it 's ` Maude . ' 
`` No ear at all for music , '' he muttered , as he saw they were as mystified as ever , and in a loud , clear voice , he sang , `` Maude can-see-e ! 
Maude can-see-e !! '' 
asked one , and John replied , `` she writher own self to tell it , and sent her love to me ; think of dat -- sent her love to an old nigger ! '' 
The letter had come that afternoon , and , as John said , was written by Maude herself . 
The experiment had been performed weeks before , but she would wait until assurance was doubly sure , ere she sent home the joyful tidings . 
It was a wonderful cure , for the chance of success was small , but the efforts used in her behalf had succeeded , and she could see again . 
`` You do n't know , '' Maude wrote , `` how great a lion Louis is getting to be . 
Louis is perfect , but Maude -- oh ! 
I can scarce believe that she ever wore that expression of fierce despair . 
Since last we looked in upon her Maude Glendower had ruled with a high hand . 
She could not live without excitement , and rallying from her grief at parting with her child , she plunged at once into repairs , tearing down and building up , while her husband looked on in dismay . 
When they were about it , she said , they might as well have all the modern improvements , and water , both hot and cold , was accordingly carried to all the sleeping apartments , the fountain-head being a large spring , distant from the house nearly half a mile . 
Gas she could not have , though the doctor would hardly have been surprised had she ordered the laying of pipes from Rochester to Laurel Hill , so utterly reckless did she seem . 
John 's desire to see the fun was more than satisfied , as was also Hannah 's , and after the receipt of Maude 's letter , the latter determined to write herself , `` and let Miss De Vere know just how things was managed . '' 
In order to do this , it was necessary to employ an amanuensis , and she enlisted the services of the gardener , who wrote her exact language , a mixture of negro , Southern , and Yankee . 
After expressing her pleasure that Maude could see , and saying that she believed the new Missto be a good woman , but a mighty queer one , she continued : -- `` The doin 's here is wonderful , and you 'd hardly know the old place . 
This letter , which conveyed to Maude a tolerably correct idea of matters at home , will also show to the reader the state of feeling existing between J. C. and Nellie . 
They were an ill-assorted couple , utterly incapable of taking care of themselves , and when they heard from Mrs. Kelsey that she really contemplated a second marriage , they looked forward to the future with a kind of hopeless apathy , wholly at variance with the feelings of the beautiful , dark-eyed Maude , and the noble James De Vere . 
Their love for each other had increased each day , and their happiness seemed almost greater than they could bear on that memorable morn when the husband bent fondly over his young girl-wife , who laid a hand on each side of his face , and while the great tears rolled down her cheeks , whispered joyfully , `` I can see you , darling ; I can see ! '' 
Littlemore than two years have passed away since the September afternoon when the deep-toned bell rang out the merry tidings , `` Maude can see -- Maude can see , '' and again upon the billow another vessel rides . 
They had tarried for a long time in Italy , both for Louis 's sake , and because , after the recovery of her sight , Maude 's health had been delicate , and her husband would stay until it was fully re-established . 
And they were going home at last -- James , Louis , and Maude -- going to Hampton , where Mrs. De Vere waited so anxiously their coming . 
It was a happy meeting : and after the first joy of it was over , Maude inquired after the people at Laurel Hill . 
`` It is more than four months since we heard from them , '' she said , `` and then Mrs. Kennedy 's letter was very unsatisfactory . 
`` Our house -- our old home -- it shall not be ; '' and the tears glittered in Louis 's eyes , while , turning to Mrs. De Vere , Maude whispered softly , `` His wife has ruined him , but do n't let us talk of it before Louis . '' 
The lady nodded , and when at last they were alone , told all she knew of the affair . 
said Maude , and Mrs. De Vere replied , `` Pride and a dread of what you might say , prevented her writing it , I think . 
It made me cry when he pointed them out to me , saying so mournfully , ` This is Maude 's , this was Matty 's , and that was Katy 's once . '' ' 
Maude 's sympathies were roused , and , fatigued as she was , she started the next morning with her husband and brother for Laurel Hill . 
cried Maude , as they stopped before the gate . 
`` No , it must not be sold , '' returned Maude , while her husband smiled quietly upon them both , and said nothing . 
he said , bowing with great humility to Maude , of whom he stood a little in awe , so polished were her manners , and so elegant her appearance . 
Maude assured him that she could , and then observing how impatient Louis appeared , she asked for Dr. Kennedy . 
So , leaving her husband and brother below , Maude glided noiselessly up stairs to the low attic room , where , by an open window , gazing sorrowfully out upon the broad harvest-fields , soon to be no longer his , a seemingly old man sat . 
`` Maude -- Matty 's Maude -- my Maude ! '' 
What of Louis , Maude ? 
Tell me of my boy , '' and over the wrinkled face of the old man broke beautifully the father-love , giving place to the father-pride , as Maude told of Louis 's success , of the fame he won , and the money he had earned . 
Dr. Kennedy started quickly at that word , but ere he could repeat it , his ear caught a coming sound , and his eyes flashed eagerly as , grasping the arm of Maude , he whispered , `` It 's music , Maude -- it 's music -- do n't you hear it ? 
Silently Maude stole from the room , leaving them thus together , the father and his son . 
She had returned sooner than was anticipated , and , after joyfully greeting Maude , started in quest of Louis . 
`` Do n't let her in here , '' whispered the doctor , as he heard her on the stairs . 
Do n't let her in here ; she 'd be seized with a fit of repairs . 
Go to her ; she loves you , at least . '' 
Still , when alone with Mr. De Vere and Maude , she conversed freely of their misfortunes , and ere the day was over , they thoroughly understood the matter . 
After a day or two , Mr. De Vere and Maude returned to Hampton , leaving Louis with his father , who , in his society , grew better and happier each day . 
Hannah , who was growing old , went , from choice , to live with Maude , but John would not forsake his master . 
Nobody knew the kinksof the old place like himself , he said , and he accordingly staid , superintending the whole , and coming ere long to speak of it all as his.It was hisfarm , his oxen , his horses , his every thing , except the pump , which Hannah , in her letter to Maude , had designated as an injin.Upon this he looked a little askance . 
About the time of Maude 's blindness , she had removed to a town in the southern part of New York , and though she wrote apprising her young mistress of the change , she forgot entirely to say whereshe was going , consequently the family were ignorant of her place of residence , until accident revealed it to J. C. De Vere . 
It was but a few weeks preceding Maude 's return from Europe that he found himself compelled to spend a Sabbath in the quiet town of Fayette . 
Notwithstanding her firm conviction that Maude Matilda Remington Blodgettwas her last and only one , she was now the mother of a sturdy boy , which the meek man carried in his arms . 
At the time of Maude 's engagement with J. C. De Vere , she had written to know what J. C.was for , and Jedediah Cleishbothampleased her fancy as being unusual and odd . 
Indirectly she had heard that Maude was married to Mr. De Vere , and gone to Europe , and supposing it was of course J. C. she , on this occasion , startled her better half by declaring that her son should be baptized `` John Joel Jedediah Cleishbotham '' or nothing ! 
Janet was firm , and hunting up Maude 's letter , written more than three years before , she bade him write down the name , so as not to make a blunder . 
`` Then you ai n'tmarried to Maude after all , '' said the astonished Janet , as she proceeded to question him of the doctor 's family . 
Fayette , as she said , was an out of the way place , and after hearing from a man who met them in New York , that Maude and Louis were both gone to Europe , she gave Laurel Hill no further thought , and settled quietly down among the hills until her monotonous life was broken by the birth of a son , the John Joel , who , as she talked with J. C. , slept calmly in his crib . 
`` So you aint merried to her , '' she kept repeating , her anger at her husband 's treacherous memory fast decreasing . 
`` I kinder thought her losin ' my money might make a difference , but you 're jest as happy with Nellie , aint you ? '' 
`` Married life is just like a checker-board , and all on us has as much as we can do to swaller it at times , but you would of been happy with Maude , I know . '' 
And now , with one more glance at Maude , we bring our story to a close . 
Since forsaking the Episcopalians , he had seldom attended their service , but this morning , after his task is done , he will steal quietly across the common to the old stone church , where James De Vere and Maude sing together the glorious Easter Anthem . 
Maude formerly sang the alto , but in the old world her voice was trained to the higher notes , and to-day it will be heard in the choir where it has so long been missed . 
There is a heightened bloom upon Maude 's cheek , a softer lustre in her eye , while throughout the church there is a solemn hush , which the man of God seems loth to break . 
It had come at last , and with a gathering coldness at his heart he had read the decision , -- `` she would not be reconciled , '' and she bade him `` go his way alone and leave her to herself . '' 
`` It is well , '' he said ; `` I shall never trouble her again , '' -- and with a feeling of relief , as if a heavy load , a dread of coming evil , had been taken from his mind , he threw the letter upon the table , and leaning back in his cushioned chair , tried to fancy that the last few years of his life were blotted out . 
`` He was melancholy , '' she said ; `` there was something workin ' on his mind , and what it was she did n't know more 'n the dead -- though she knew as well as she wanted to , that he had been crossed in love , for what else would make so many of his hairs gray , and he not yet twenty-five ! '' 
