Here Stein , whose sharp eyes had been peering diligently into the carriage , caught sight of a bit of pink silk hood , and announced his discovery in the words : `` Ah , Miss Angie , you 're there , I see ! 
Some girls would have been frightened at seeing him so moved , but not Angie . 
She knew her power ; there was coquetry in her , and courage , so she took the offensive . 
she found time to say , as she passed him in the doorway . 
There was no time for an answer , -- a spoken answer at least , -- but he started , and glared fiercely at her , as a mastiff might do when struck . 
She answered him with a glance of scornful rebuke . 
As he sat with his chin resting on his knees , and listened to the breathing of some tired horses -LRB- his own among the rest -RRB- , who had spent their strength in that day 's race , and failed to win , the sum of his reflections was , `` Just such a poor beast am I. '' `` O Angie ! 
The welcome was sincere , and , if not wholly disinterested , Angie was too conscious of popularity to be very critical as to motives . 
`` I 've been waiting , Angie , to get you to tie this ribbon ! '' 
`` O Angie , I 'm so worried with my back hair ! '' 
`` Dear me , Angie , this carl sticks right out straight ! '' 
`` Could n't you put this pin in for me , so that it would stay put , Angie ? '' 
Such were the appeals to her skill and good nature that greeted her on every side , before she had time to throw off her own wrappings and take a look at herself in the mirror . 
A moment , and a glimpse , however , sufficed for Angie . 
All was right with her own toilet , and her magic fingers were ready to give the finishing touch to that of her companions . 
She could tie a knot , pin up a turban , or dress a head with flowers as skilfully as any milliner , and could reduce a crooked pin , a bent comb , or a refractory curl to obedience , as easily as she could set a fashion , coax her father , or subdue a lover . 
So she passed from one to another , exercising her fairy gifts , and receiving pay for her services in such little gratuities as , `` That 's right ! 
O Angie , if I only had your faculty ! '' 
And now and then the whispered assurance , `` Angie , you area beauty , and no mistake ! '' 
Not one of these New Jersey girls could compare with Angie . 
Still , somehow they all felt happier and better looking for her presence . 
She had the rare power of emitting pleasure while she absorbed admiration . 
Thus she was at once the belle of the district and the favorite of her own sex . 
The secret of this double success lay partly in the fact that Nature had endowed Angevine Cousin with qualities to which her associates had no pretension , and so had placed her beyond rivalry . 
Angie was not a native of New Jersey , but an exotic , and a rare one . 
Her mother , long since dead , was a New England woman , of strict Puritan birth and training ; but her father was a Frenchman , had passed most of his life in the atmosphere , if not the society , of the ancien régime , and maintained , even in his old age , something of the wit and the deportment of a true Parisian . 
Whether Angie 's character possessed the sterling virtues of her mother 's race as a background , experience had not yet proved ; but her exterior traits , personal accomplishments , all her superficial qualities , whether faults or graces , betrayed at once the paternal extraction . 
She had all that vivacity , good humor , and genius which the French comprehend under the general term `` esprit , '' and whoever escaped the attraction of her beauty , was sure to be captivated by her winning ways . 
Strictly speaking , Angie was not the handsomest girl of the neighborhood . 
Even Polly Stein -- herself a long-favored girl , of an unhealthy pallor -- could gratify her occasional spite against Angie , by insinuations upon her low forehead and brown skin . 
What was it then in Angie which defied the lines of beauty and the spite of Polly Stein ? 
But nature had endowed Angie by degrees , and made her perfect mistress of her own charms . 
There was nothing out of proportion in her face or figure , and her very attractions , whether innate or artificial , were so blended and toned down as never to offend the taste . 
Angie 's cost her nothing ; they were neither ringlets nor corkscrew curls ; they were neither twisted up in papers at night , nor signed with hot tongs by day ; the glossy black locks , which a single stroke of the brush could straighten , would be rolled into fashion again by the first breeze , or be massed in wavy folds by the moisture of the dew at nightfall . 
They could be likened to nothing but the soft drooping ears of the spaniel , and , thrown back from her forehead -LRB- Polly was right about her forehead , which was rather low -RRB- , they formed the richest of coronets . 
Angie was partial to scarlet , a color which suited her brunette complexion . 
She liked to mingle it with her dark hair , and when her dress was white , as on the present evening , the strong contrast had the effect of heightening and intensifying her bloom . 
In accordance with this taste , she now wore a broad silken sash or scarf of this brilliant color , enriched at each end by figures wrought in gold , and emblematic of some office or order -- the insignia , perhaps , of the ancient marquis , whom Mr. Cousin had served in his younger days . 
This showy bit of finery , a memento of his patron 's grandeur , which Angie had found in an old trunk , and coaxed from her father for this very occasion , was sported over one shoulder and carelessly knotted beneath her arm , its long fringed ends floating off , and relieving the scantiness of her dress , made extremely narrow , as was then the mode . 
Most girls would have been awed by the mere thought of thus shining in borrowed plumage ; but Angie had the courage of a marchioness in the matter of dress , and confident that this stray patent of nobility produced a becoming effect , she wore her honors with as assured an air as if `` to the manner born . '' 
Still Angie 's was exceptional , both in material and style . 
The others were of cambrie , with one or two coarse specimens of East Indian fabric ; Angie 's was a delicate muslin , wrought in sprigs at intervals , and with a deep flounce wrought throughout . 
One white dress is as becoming as another ; besides , Angie 's is only an old relic , -- her maternal grandmother 's wedding-gown , bleached up for the occasion . '' 
So much had nature and circumstances done for Angie . 
A motherless and petted child , she had grown up very much as the birds and the flowers grow ; she had ripened , without much interference or training from any body . 
It is safe , then , to attribute to Nature most of the qualities which distinguished her . 
What could be the reason that Angie -- and many another girl , for that matter , for it is a streak that runs in the blood of not a few of her sex -- treated every body well , except that person in the world who loved her best , and whom she in her heart loved best in return . 
Ever since Angie 's mother died , and Mr. Cousin , yearning for a more genial climate than that of New England , bought the land next to farmer Rawle 's , and brought his daughter , then six years old , to live in New Jersey , George Rawle had deified the child ; and ever since that infant period , Angie had been a most tyrannical and capricious little goddess . 
Was it not enough that he had always been her ready champion and protector ; that from the time when he led her by the hand to school , or climbed the highest trees , and carved her name on the topmost branch , to the period of riper affection , when their voices had mingled in the Sunday choir , and the strength of his manhood had been hers to lean upon ; that through all the days of boyish worship , youthful gallantry , and manly ardor , he had still been her willing slave ? 
Why need she put him to further test ? 
Why must she vex him by her whims , and torture him with doubts of her love ? 
Why must she now and then affect indifference to his presence , frown on his pretensions , and send him from her angry , that he might come back penitent ? 
To every other friend she was equal in her cordiality . 
She had her own way with them all , but she won it by affectionate arts . 
She teased and cajoled her father , she lorded it over the ancient negress , who otherwise ruled her father 's house ; but her wands of empire were wreathed with caresses and laughter . 
Geordie was more to her than all the rest , and she was all the world to Geordie . 
Must she then make herself hateful to him that he might love her the more ? 
O , no ; she was safe on that score . 
When she humbled Geordie he always hated himself , poor fellow ! 
-- he never hated her . 
The period when he was under the ban of Angie 's displeasure , real or imaginary , the hours succeeding those when he had been the victim of some caprice on her part , were precisely the seasons when he was sure to come in the way of temptation , and prove powerless to resist it . 
Had Angie reflected on the subject she might have found increasing causes of complaint in the nature of George 's pursuits and the dissipation of his time . 
She might have argued that true affection would never suffer him to linger in idleness , so long as poverty stood between him and the object of his love ; but the same prudent line of argument would have suggested to her whether she had not the power to check him in a course of follies , and spur him on to nobler enterprises . 
As it was , though sensitive to his danger , she seldom took him to taks on the highest grounds ; and though piqued at his inefficiency in the art of earning a livelihood , she gave no consistent encouragement to his industry . 
In the little sphere of their daily life , Angie was scarcely more preëminent than himself . 
Breaking vicious colts was not a very profitable business in those days , and had never been dreamed of as a profession ; still , it furnished exciting occupation , and was not without its reward , especially when a knot of rustics stood agape with astonishment , and Angie perhaps looked on , her little heart all in a flutter of fear , but nothing but triumph in her eyes . 
What satisfaction there was too in seeing her stroke the feathers of the wild ducks he brought to Mr. Cousin 's kitchen , measuring the young sportsman and his gun with ill-concealed pride , while she said , `` Poor things ! 
That Angie should laugh and George blush at such an effusion on Happy 's part , seems a reversal of the proprieties ; nevertheless , such was usually the result of any reference to a sentiment which the weaker party trifled with , while it reduced the bold hunter to more than girlish helplessness . 
Add to this those numerous minor freaks which kept him always on the rack in regard to what would please and win her , and Angie might almost be included in the catalogue of those who had combined to ruin him . 
But it was when smarting under the injustice of Baultie , and disheartened by Angie 's coldness , that he fell into bad company , then into debt , and finally into discredit . 
That he should fall in love with Angie , was a matter of course ; had he been a king 's son as well as an aristocrat , he could have done no less , so Geordie thought ; but that she should encourage his addresses , was a thing he had not bargained for . 
There had never been a time when he could have endured this patiently , and now , when he was at a disadvantage every way , Angie 's toleration of this showy stranger was gall and wormwood to him . 
What wonder , since every thing else had turned against him , that Angie had given her smiles to another , and with a look of scorn had annihilated him ? 
But for the present he sat crouched on the hay , in the dark stable , while his white-gloved rival stood at the foot of the stairs , waiting to lead Angie into the ball-room . 
There were a few exceptions , however , to this general rule ; Angie had the tact to loiter a moment at the foot of the stairs , the coquetry immediately to engross the captain , and the courage to enter the assembly-room leaning on his arm , at the very moment when their entrance was sure to command attention and produce an effect . 
`` Besides , the cap'n was took with Angie from the first . 
He never set eyes on her until last Sunday , and then did n't he stare well at the singing seats ! '' 
`` There 's others sits in the seats besides Angie , '' insinuated Polly , with a completely satisfied air . 
echoed Angie 's heart ; and , half in a triumph which she could not help wishing he might witness , half in an anxiety which she could not wholly suppress , she gave a quick glance at the right and left , looked over her shoulder with apparent carelessness , then , excited by chagrin at her lover 's absence , gave her hand with animation to the captain , and they went down the dance in fine style . 
So Angie and he went down the dance in triumph , he courting favor along the female line , and Angie , on her part , dispensing pleasant words and smiles in the opposite ranks , and both , at length , reaching the pantry door at the farther end of the kitchen , somewhat out of breath , but in high glee . 
Angie , meanwhile , manifested at once her good breeding and her good nature by exchanging a few kind words with Dame Stein , who , having brushed up her person a little , but having , as usual , too much business on her hands to be presentable , clung to her pantry , only now and then peering into the kitchen ball-room to see the dancing , -- a proceeding , of which Polly , when she reached that neighborhood , did not hesitate to express her disapprobation , in the words , -- `` Mother ! 
The chief motive for his exertions , indeed , was securing Angie for a partner . 
Still , although he danced with her so many times as to excite the remarks of the women and the envy of the men , he occasionally suffered himself to be satisfied with meeting her in the changes of the dance , or whispering adroit flatteries in her ear during the intervals . 
The reluctance , which he felt or feigned , to accept her proposition to introduce him to the other belles of the evening , was none the less flattering that he was at last over-persuaded ; for , while he stood faithfully opposite to Squire Runyan 's niece , or farmer Rycker 's Phebe , his dark , sparkling eyes were still pursuing Angie , and now and then catching a responsive glance . 
It was a noticeable fact , -- a proof , perhaps , of his quick appreciation of character , -- that when conversing with Polly he dropped the strain of compliment and deference which was so gratifying to Angie 's vanity , and , as if adapting himself to a lower level , assumed a tone of familiarity and jest which he would not have ventured on with her . 
It did not prevent her owing Angie a grudge for engrossing so large a share of the captain 's attention , but it prevented her believing that attention to be sincere on his part , and persuaded her that his relations with herself were , on the whole , more confidential . 
As to Angie , she gave herself up to excitement and gratified vanity without remorse , or much regard to consequences . 
Here was an opportunity to exercise her inherent ambition for conquest , and punish Geordie for his past neglect . 
Was Geordie to be left to the supposition that he was the only man whom she was capable of bringing to her feet ? 
Especially was he to be indulged in this belief at a time when , if ever , he had neglected her , had been self-engrossed , irritable , and out of spirits ? 
What right had any man to be depressed in the possession of her affections ? 
No ; it was enough that for half a dozen Christmas balls in succession she had been mated with a youth who seemed no nearer than ever to a position in which he could claim her hand . 
Lately , when she had seen him , he had been shamefaced and sullen . 
If he must be sulky in her presence , she would give him something to be sulky about . 
So she reasoned with herself ; but that her heart argued better than her head , might be guessed from her penetrating review , now and then of the entry , and other passages leading to the ball-room , and a slight start and quick glance of her eye whenever a tall shadow fell across the threshold of either doorway . 
In spite of herself , she was asking the same question which others have asked , and which it is time to answer , -- `` What has become of Geordie ? '' 
It may be supposed , therefore , that they were moved to astonishment and compassion when , on the company 's being ushered into the supper-room , the English stranger shivered , buttoned up that military coat of his , and looked in vain , first over one shoulder and then the other , to see if he could detect some snug retreat or sheltered corner in which he could ensconce himself and his partner -- the latter , of course , being Angie , as he had , early in the evening , engaged to escort her to supper . 
responded Angie , who would not have thought about it otherwise ; but who , seeing her genteel escort so horrified at the atmosphere , very naturally gave a genteel shiver too . 
Angie assured him his fears were groundless . 
She should not take cold -- at least , she did not thinkshe should . 
It had never occurred to her before that a frail constitution was a mark of refinement ; but now , there was something so flattering in the distinction made between her and her companions , that she voluntarily moved from the vicinity of a window , and though she declined the cloak , suffered the captain to untie the silken scarf which was fastened at her waist , and tenderly fold it around her bare neck and shoulders . 
He then approached the table with the view of securing places for himself and Angie upon one of the rough benches that surrounded it ; but , although there was a general disposition to exercise politeness towards him , which manifested itself by several voices exclaiming in a breath , `` Room here , cap'n ! 
he declined every offer of accommodation , and stepped back at length to report to Angie that those country cubs were crowding and pushing to such a degree that he could not think of exposing her to their rudeness . 
Angie joined mechanically in this laugh of derision . 
She would not have hurt her neighbors ' feelings openly for the world , but she could not resist a glow of satisfaction at the contrast which the captain must see between her manners and those of her country friends , to make him so confidential in his criticisms . 
Besides , there did seem something gross to her to-night in the way the people were eating . 
The conflict between pique and vanity , which was waging in her own breast , had quite robbed her of her usually healthy appetite . 
So Angie entered into the spirit of the proposal , and in a few minutes she and the captain were seated in front of the sitting-room fire , with a little table between them , while Stein , who had staid below to tend the bar , was , in compliance with Captain Josselyn 's suggestions , bringing choice little instalments from Dame Stein 's private larder , and hinting his congratulations to Angie upon her privileged lot . 
He carved the fowl in the most dainty fashion , dressed a few raw oysters in the shell , cut delicate slices from the roll , uncorked the wine himself , that no less skilful hands might disturb the dregs , and so gratified Angie 's naturally fastidious taste by the dexterous manner in which he served and presented the refreshment that , to her own surprise , her appetite revived , and she found herself making an excellent meal , and even sipping , now and then , the amber wine , which the gallant captain recommended as an antidote to the cold . 
Angie expressed the most näive delight at the proposition . 
The words were unintelligible to Angie , but the action was vehement and passionate , and the singer contrived to throw so much meaning into his voice , gestures , and expression , that Angie felt herself tremble and blush beneath the searching dark eye , which , somehow , she could neither meet nor escape , and which exercised a sort of magnetic effect upon her will . 
As Angie sat opposite to him , the object of his fascinations and gallantry , she felt the advantage he had over her in this as in other respects . 
She realized that he had confidence and courage , the former in view of his social position , the latter , of his superior years . 
These were traits Angie had never yet contended with in a lover , and they made her yielding , timid , childlike . 
So she sat listening like a charmed bird . 
If Angie and the captain had that claim to the sitting-room which belongs to first occupants , strollers on the platform outside , or loungers in the entry , had none the less the right to peep in at the windows or listen to the music . 
Angie sprung up , and stood opposite Geordie , angry , bewildered , mortified . 
She did not speak ; but the captain , coolly retaining his seat , and suffering his white hand to toy with the guitar strings , said `` Really ! '' 
some friend of yours , Miss Angie ? '' 
And he waved his hand , as if foregoing any right to take offence in consideration of its being Angie 's affair , and a matter quite beneath his own notice . 
he said , by way of a warning ; then turning his back on the stranger , he came between him and Angie , and faced her angrily . 
She was angry too . 
Her pride was irritated at George 's behavior , the whole responsibility of which the captain had thrown upon her . 
Before he could speak , accusingly or otherwise , she , as usual , took the offensive , saying , `` Ai n't you ashamed of yourself , Geordie ? '' 
`` Youare ashamed ofme , Angie . 
`` And that wo n't be yours , George Rawle , -- unless , '' she added , by way of qualification , -- `` unless you should become a very different man from what you are now . '' 
And Angie , worried and vexed , glanced anxiously in the direction of the captain . 
The captain 's coolness and George 's persistency exasperated Angie . 
She was determined to vindicate herself in the eyes of the former from any complicity in the misconduct of her country lover . 
`` You sha n't stand there questioning me , '' she said , accompanying her words with a positive motion of her head . 
She might well add this emphatic query , for either he was deaf , or what was equally incredible , had no intention to obey her . 
She turned away from him , but he again planted himself before her . 
She stopped short , and frowned . 
`` It is of no use , Angie , '' he said . 
The question and the manner were so ludicrous that Angie , though provoked at their sarcasm , could not resist a smile . 
Angie , '' -- and he grasped her arm , -- `` listen to me one minute , and tell me the truth , if you have one grain of pity left for an old friend . 
Angie felt it , and would either have expostulated with him or answered seriously , but for a diversion given to her feelings by a jeering suggestion from the captain that `` the reason '' seemed palpable . 
At this intimation she stopped short , looked distrustfully at George , and withdrew from his touch . 
`` I am at Miss Angie 's bidding . 
She has but to say the word , and I forbear to disturb the harmony that seems to exist between you ; '' and , as the captain stooped to pick up a bit of the golden wheat which had fallen from Angie 's hair , he caught her eye , and the smile on his face was full of irony . 
It was an even chance that minute whether poor Angie should laugh or cry . 
She had never felt so babyish and miserable , but , on the other hand , her pride had never before been so stung ; Nature craved the relief of tears , but with the consciousness of the captain 's eye upon her she resolved not to make a fool of herself , and so forced a laugh -- and a most hollow , unnatural laugh it was . 
They had much better have struck him , especially Angie . 
The remembrance of it was to rankle deep in Geordie 's soul , and in Angie 's own soul deeper yet . 
-- and his glance shot rapidly from Angie to the Captain , then fixed itself on her . 
-- and coming close to her , he whispered the last word hoarsely in her ear . 
Angie was frightened . 
She uttered a slight exclamation of horror , and looked up in George 's face with an anxious , bewildered expression . 
Perhaps there was a shade of sympathy in this upturned look which emboldened the youth , for he now caught her hand , -- `` You have to choose between us two , Angie , '' he hoarsely ejaculated , `` for it 's now or never . '' 
interrupted the captain , starting forward with impudent confidence in his right to act as umpire , and break up this scene the moment the young man , as he termed him , appeared to be going too far ; and drawing Angie 's arm through his , he led her a few steps towards the door , saying , in a protecting tone intended to reassure her , -- `` let me take you under my wing . 
George sprang forward , caught Angie 's disengaged hand , and contended for the possession . 
`` For Heaven 's sake do n't leave me so , Angie ? '' 
Angie looked helplessly from one to the other . 
Angie screamed , struggled to escape from them both , and looked around her as if in the hope of some timely interference . 
Her look and cry were responded to instantly , but in the last way she could ever have dreamed of . 
George dropped Angie 's hand involuntarily ; the captain would have retained her arm within his , but she proudly withdrew it , though maintaining her place close at his side . 
Baultie Rawle now turned to Angie with , `` What is your name , young woman ? '' 
`` Angevine Cousin , '' she answered , humbly . 
Angie , still humbly , signified a sort of assent . 
Perhaps Angie was not so convinced of this . 
At all events , at this crisis , she moved a step further from the captain , a step nearer to Geordie . 
As he spoke and bowed , he dropped his bit of wheat and stooped to reclaim it ; but Angie , too quick for him , snatched it from the floor , and holding it fast , drew still nearer to Geordie . 
Angie crept close to him . 
He burned with wrath -- so did she . 
That she should slight or ill use him herself , was one thing ; but that any body else should defame him , was quite another . 
I call Heaven to witness , '' -- and he raised his hand , as one does in taking an oath , -- `` and you , Mr. Military-man , '' to the captain , `` and , you too , Diedrich Stein , '' to Stein , who , with eager lips apart , had first stolen into the entry , and then into the room , and so had heard and seen all ; `` and -- '' he was going to include Angie , but something in her look forbade him , so he summed up his audience with , `` I call allof you to witness that this ungrateful boy has this night insulted and given the lie to his old uncle ; that he deserves my curse and shall have it . '' 
Angie 's face alone expressed real sympathy for either party . 
The blood had mounted to her temples , and her eye absolutely glared with anger , as she followed every look and word of Baultie Rawle . 
Forgetting every thing but her own dreadful anxiety , Angie pressed her face against the window-pane and saw him depart ; saw more than she had dreamed of seeing , or was likely soon to forget ; for , as he shot past the bar-room door , he had sufficient time and presence of mind to make a signal to a man who had been waiting for him there , -- the same shabby , bloated man , with the sore finger and greedy eye , whom Angie had seen in his company when she alighted from her father 's carryall that evening ; she also saw the man , in response to the signal , come out of the tavern and follow in the direction George had taken , -- and the man was Nicholas Bly . 
You would make one boulevard de Paris out of de leetle parloor of Monsieur Stein ; '' and the old Frenchman glanced at the tête-à-têtetable at which the captain and Angie had been supping , and rubbed his hands in high glee . 
`` You will catch one cold at dat window , ma chere , '' he said to Angie , who seemed to be looking out at the night . 
`` I 'm not cold , papa , '' said Angie , with difficulty commanding her voice , for the poor girl was crying . 
`` Certainly , '' replied the obliging antagonist , '' -- that is , unless Miss Cousin will honor me with her hand for another dance ; '' and he looked inquiringly at Angie . 
O , no , '' answered Angie , slightly turning her head . 
Then , wiping away the few tears she had shed , and smothering the many that were unwept , she ventured to approach her father , and say , `` I am tired , papa . 
The pleasure - loving little Frenchman lingered one moment , however , at the fire -- just long enough to replenish his glass , and while pledging his entertainer to give Angie the chance she desired , to slip away with only a hasty good night to Captain Josselyn . 
The captain loitered some time in the entry-way , with the intention of escorting her to the equipage , which was not long in making its appearance . 
So Angie contrived to run down stairs at a moment when his back was turned , and by the time he was again on the lookout , the tall carryall was swinging away from the door . 
`` Ah , Miss Angie , you leave us early ! '' 
Angie had no spirit for responding to Stein 's compliments . 
She was only too glad to lean back in the carriage and be left to her own thoughts . 
Angie gave one look , and , -- O strange contrariety of human nature ! 
-- in spite of all she had felt and suffered that night , owing partly , perhaps , to this very circumstance , she experienced a sudden thrill of mortification and chagrin as she caught sight of the gallant captain standing up in a country-dance that was just forming , courtly , self-possessed , handsome as ever , and apparently engrossed by the charms of Polly Stein . 
Perhaps the possibility of all this first flashed upon Angie 's mind on the night of the ball . 
Perhaps , long and well as she had known George Rawle , she had never realized the manhood there was in him until she saw it defied by another than herself . 
Only in the light of others ' contempt did she begin to appreciate the native forces thus trodden under foot , and to dread their rebound . 
Anxiety for George , however , was not the only emotion that sent Angie home from the ball early and dissatisfied . 
The sudden influx of womanly fear , which took possession of her at his abrupt departure , had brought her nervous excitement to a climax , and reduced her to the weakness of tears ; but a vague sense of anger , mortification , disappointment , and finally jealousy , all combined to chafe , irritate , and oppress her . 
Very tired she professed to be , and so went at once to bed . 
For Angie to plead fatigue after a few hours dancing was a mere pretence , and yet it may be doubted whether truth itself could have found a better expression for her state of mind . 
She was tired of herself , with whom she had been so well satisfied at the commencement of the evening ; tired of every body whom she had been disposed to like ; tired of every thing from which she had anticipated pleasure . 
To get away from the ball , reach home , escape her father 's prattle , turn the key of her door upon old Happy , and thus , in a figurative sense , upon the whole world , -- that was sufficient satisfaction and relief for the present . 
Exhausted by painful excitement , and experiencing that reaction which almost amounts to apathy , she mechanically took off her finery -- her last lively emotion for the night evincing itself in the little outburst of vexation with which she tossed lace , flowers , and muslin into a heap , and thrust them into a bureau drawer . 
It was altogether too cold in her room for any time to be wasted in listlessness or meditation , and the frosty weather having driven her to bed , nature and habit soon put her to sleep . 
Either a night 's rest or the influence of daylight exerted a happy effect , for morning found her with her accustomed life and energy restored ; and if her spirits were still depressed , there was nothing in her looks or movements to contradict a frequent assertion of the neighbors that Angie Cousin was `` a smart little piece . '' 
She was up as early as usual , and more than commonly active in her daily round of employments . 
It is true that , as she peered diligently into the corners of the sitting-room in search of dust , her brow was more contracted and anxious than the occasion seemed to warrant ; there was a thoughtful pensiveness in the manner with which , before washing the breakfast things , she stirred the hot dish-water with her little mop , and there was a most unlucky vehemence in the way in which she dashed the teapot against the closet shelf , and broke the nose off . 
Similar fluctuations of temper attended her through the morning . 
Now she stood at the window , gazing down the road as if she were expecting some one ; then walked to the fireplace , and seemed to find interest and excitement in heaping on wood and stirring up a great blaze ; then paused before a mirror , and surveyed her own features , without observing their dull and vacant expression . 
Angie 's active duties were accomplished , and she could not compose herself to any sedentary occupation . 
Mr. Cousin was pottering about at the barn in his queer French fashion , and Angie experienced an unusual sense of loneliness and desertion . 
None of the girls would come to see her and talk over the ball on such a dismal day , and she should n't want their company if they did come . 
At another time she could have put on her hood and run down , as was often her habit , to sit an hour with Mrs. Rawle , George 's mother . 
Let it be mentioned , in connection with this last circumstance , that Angie was not slovenly -- she was naturally the pink of neatness -- but they were sopoor , and she had but one other pair , and the only way to save them was to wear the old ones at home . 
she exclaimed , in something half way between a whisper and a shout , as she fled up the narrow stairs that led from the kitchen to her little bed-room , `` Captain Josselyn is coming ! 
Angie being , as we have said , a `` smart little piece , '' reappeared in an incredibly brief space of time , looking , in her dark bombazette dress and broad white frill , almost as pretty as she did at the ball . 
Mr. Cousin coming from the barn , had met the captain at the door , and accompanied him in , so the delay on her part was of no consequence . 
The latter paid his compliments to Angie with as much easy grace as if nothing unpleasant had occurred the previous evening . 
Indeed , he seemed to have forgotten every circumstance of that occasion except his own delight in her society ; and the only reference he made to the interruption of that enjoyment was , when he saw her give a glance at the guitar . 
`` You see I am persevering , Miss Angie , '' he said . 
Angie blushed , thanked him , and felt herself in a little flutter of pleasurable excitement . 
The condescension of the captain , and the surprise of his visit , were such antidotes to the vexation and chagrin she had been suffering through the long , dull day ! 
They all sat and chatted a while by the fireside , or rather Captain Josselyn and Mr. Cousin kept up an animated conversation ; the captain proving equally entertaining to both his listeners -- pleasing and flattering the old gentleman by deferring to his opinions , and making apt use of French phrases , and paying court to Angie by a tender devotion of manner , and glances of most unequivocal admiration . 
The latter , however , were so confident and presuming that Angie , despite a sense of elation at the conquest she had achieved , looked first to the right , then to the left , and frequently took shelter beneath her long eyelashes , in the endeavor to avoid those piercing eyes which , as the twilight wrapped every thing else in shadow , seemed to gain proportionately in their fixedness and intensity , and as they reflected the fire-glow , took a vivid topaz color , like crystal goblets of wine . 
Angie was an inexperienced , not a brazen , coquette , and had scarcely mettle enough to resist this military lover with the intoxicating eyes . 
So , restless and embarrassed , she was glad when Mr. Cousin called for a candle , and challenged his visitor to their game of piquet . 
This also gave her an opportunity to make some housewifely preparations for tea , which she did with native quickness and tact , moving about with that daintiness with which a girl moves when she is suspicious that a lover is watching her . 
Angie got out the best table-cloth from an old-fashioned press , but postponed spreading it on the table until Happy should bring in tea , because there was a very large darn in the worn damask , which she depended upon covering with the tray . 
Then she went to the cupboard and took down from an upper shelf her stock of plate ; a few little silver teaspoons -- three -- how fortunate that there were just three ! 
and it was their only one -- what should she do ? 
But before she could think further on the matter , she heard a sound which betokened still greater mischief and agony . 
It was well she stood within the closet door , out of sight of their visitor , otherwise he might have wondered at the agitation she manifested . 
Yes , but Angie could not be mistaken as to who it was that had lifted the latch with just that click . 
She listened breathlessly , teapot in hand ; then detected precisely the sound she had expected to hear next ! 
But she was a girl of good courage , especially in emergencies . 
By the time she had deliberately set down the teapot , and slowly withdrawn her hand from it , she had resolved what to do . 
She would confront him at once , treat him coolly , and dismiss him , if she could , ignorant of the captain 's visit . 
She was surprised that just now George should want to put himself in her way ! 
Only that morning she had felt that she would give all the world to see him for five minutes . 
Perhaps it was some excuse for her unreasonableness that she so dreaded another collision between the young men . 
`` Any how , '' was her conclusion , as she slid out of the sitting-room , `` I must get rid of him to-night , if I have to run to the ends of the earth to make it up with him to-morrow ! '' 
Ah , Angie , to-morrow ! 
Angie thought he would , as usual , approach her humbly , with that pleading look of his -- but , no ; he did not even turn round when she entered the kitchen . 
So she walked up , with a hesitating step , and stood beside him . 
Then he looked at her , but only as if to assure himself that it was she , for he did not speak , and the next instant he was staring into the fire again . 
Angie took a fork and turned the doughnuts one by one . 
George watched her as she did it . 
`` You 're wet , '' she said at length . 
`` So they be , Miss Angie ! '' 
The clattering of Happy 's rolling-pin and the hissing of the hot fat thus suddenly subsiding , the kitchen seemed fearfully still to Angie , who was getting nervous and impatient . 
At this he removed his arms from the mantel-piece , raised his head , and fixed his eyes full and steadily upon her . 
Such presumption in her shy lover would have amazed her , but for a something in his gaze which she , standing as she did then and there , could not quite appropriate to herself . 
The look did not seem to be meant for her , -- at least not for her ordinary self . 
It was as if , passing beyond , behind , within her , it comprehended all the past , summed up a life 's experience , and gauged its value . 
She felt this even before he spoke , but the impression was confirmed when he said , like a man soliloquizing , `` I have known you a great many years , Angie . 
Before she could answer , his eyes were turned away from her , and were wandering round the room . 
Probably the old wooden settle by the fireside , the clock ticking in one corner , the polished warming-pan , which was such a capital thing for popping corn , the worn turkey-wing , which served for a hearth-brush , the old cat rubbing her head against his leg , -- all were reminiscences of these good times ; for he looked from one to another with as much earnestness as if he were taking an inventory , and finally stooped down and stroked the cat 's back . 
Angie was perplexed by his conduct . 
He seemed so independent of her presence that she almost felt herself a supernumerary . 
Angie stammered a little as she answered , `` He 's -- he 's busy -- just now . '' 
Her reply was apparently a matter of indifference to the young man , for his only comment was , `` I saw his snuffbox there , -- it made me think of him , -- that 's all . 
Angie , standing by the fire , shivered . 
These were the mental queries that agitated her ; and the only answer , for a space that seemed interminable , was the sighing of the wind . 
At last , when he turned , it was to walk straight up to her , lay his hand on her head , and gently smooth her hair , -- a thing he had not dared to do before since the days when she was first old enough to put it up with a comb . 
This audacity -- evidently unconscious on his part -- awed her . 
`` Angie , '' he said , almost unintelligibly , -- and she looked up , fearing he was choking , but making a great effort , he went on with a firm voice , and she listened breathlessly , -- `` Angie , that old man lied last night . 
Angie trembled , and made an effort to interrupt him , but he did not notice her , and went on . 
Touched and grieved by his appeal to her sympathies , Angie had been ready to burst into tears , comfort him , and entreat his forgiveness ; but conscience-stricken at his last words , as well as mortified at his knowledge of a rival 's presence in the next room , she could only follow the direction of his eyes with a confused medley of sensations and a shamefaced countenance . 
Even in his depth of contrition and self-abandonment , he was getting the mastery of her . 
And so it was that she , the defiant , high-spirited coquette , who had kept him in fetters now fourteen years , offered no resistance , but stood still as a statue , while he first dismissed , and then , -- O , unthought of presumption ! 
-- bent down and kissed her . 
Since she first took womanly airs , and forbade him the liberty , he had never presumed on such an offence . 
On such occasions there was nothing for it but to submit to her dictation , at least when , as now , Angie had no heart for coaxing her into good humor . 
So she obeyed the old negress ' directions like an automaton , and helped her `` hurry up tea . '' 
But the elasticity was all gone out of Angie . 
She was no longer the blithe little coquette , the conscious beauty , the dainty housewife . 
George loved his mother better than any one in the world except Angie ; and he was the sun and centre of her life 's orbit ; but there was very little demonstration of affection between them . 
He always treated her with respect , and when about home , performed for her all those offices which demanded strength or involved exposure ; and she spent the greater part of her time and thoughts in motherly cares for his comfort ; but as to any more sentimental indication of their relationship it was unthought of , and unmissed on either side . 
Angie accompanied her . 
To kindle a fire , bathe , chafe , and as far as possible , restore Hannah Rawle 's frozen limbs , were the next tasks to which Margery and Angie applied themselves . 
asked Angie , who , kneeling on the floor beside Hannah , was fastening a bandage round one of her bleeding ankles . 
reiterated Angie , putting her question in a new form , and speaking louder , though in a much less steady voice than at first , while Margery , who was stirring the fire , held the tongs with a trembling hand , and listened for Hannah 's reply . 
Angie was silent ; she still knelt beside Hannah , but the poor girl 's hands refused their office ; she almost shrank from the cold limb to which she had been ministering ; the whole person of the woman who had so lately fought hand to hand with death , seemed invested with something forbidding and awful . 
For a moment Angie did not venture to touch her , or interrupt her prolonged cry . 
She soon interrupted herself , however , with the abrupt questions , `` Have they started ? 
Angie repeated an assurance already given , that her father and the stable-boy were on the alert ; that they were harnessing a horse when she left the house ; that before this time all the neighborhood was roused , and every possible effort being made in Baultie Rawle 's behalf . 
ventured Angie `` we 'll trust not . '' 
Margery , awed by Hannah 's stern expression of purpose , gazed at her in a sort of stupor ; Angie , on the contrary , instinctively stretched out her hand , and almost snatched at the boasted token of crime . 
Angie drew back a step -- there was a moment of silence -- then Margery renewed her whining entreaties and expostulations on the subject of her sister-in-law 's sufferings and exposure should she continue longer in her present position on the floor , and this time successfully , though it was evident that Hannah permitted herself to be assisted to bed rather with a view to Margery 's satisfaction than her own . 
Whether her senses were rendered more than ordinarily acute , or her suspicions sharpened by her terrible experience , the old woman still kept a jealous hold upon her memento of a night of horrors , giving Margery a smart repulse when she innocently suggested that the cold , damp thing would chill the whole bed , and watching Angie with as much distrust as if she had been a huge mothworm , whose only purpose in life was the acquisition of a woollen rag . 
For on the possession of a rag -- that rag -- all the faculties of Angie 's mind and body were concentrated . 
She watched , she waited , she listened , she hoped , she prayed ; prayed that the search on the mountain might be long delayed ; hoped that Hannah would fall asleep meanwhile ; listened to every breath she drew ; watched and waited her opportunity . 
There was an east window to the little bed-room , and the pale morning light was sufficient for Angie 's purpose . 
Angie carefully turned down the bed-clothes and applied her fingers to the object which the sleeping woman still hugged to her side . 
Slow , Angie ; steady . 
take care ; she stirs ! 
Angie retreats almost discouraged ; her chest heaves ; there is a rising in her throat which seems to stifle her . 
Still her eye is on the coveted rag ; her ear is strained ; her attitude keen and watchful . 
Quick , Angie ! 
She is unconscious of her loss -- a moment more , and she may wake and claim the thing you have pounced upon . 
But now Angie has it ; she has pulled it into shape ; she has held it up to the light -- and it is -- O heavens ! 
it isthe thing she feared . 
His mother had shaped it to her boy 's hand ; Angie herself had marked it with her lover 's name -- a murderer 's hand ! 
What is she doing ? 
Why is she tearing at it so frantically ? 
She dare not destroy it . 
It will surely be claimed at her hands , and her own act would bring suspicion on the house . 
But she can destroy its identity . 
With a crooked pin for her weapon , and horrid fear for her spur , she is tearing out the red letters , -- G. R. , -- copied from her own sampler , wrought by her own fingers less than a week ago , -- George himself looking on . 
Be careful , Angie ; a broken stitch may betray you and him . 
With one eye on her task and the other casting rapid glances at her sleeping tyrant , she pulls , picks , tears at the threads ; with a prudence , born of dread , she crouches on the floor , and spreads her apron on her lap , that not a shred of the fatal color may escape her . 
Your time is up , Angie ! 
she is feeling for it ! 
And she has it again . 
One frantic effort and the last red stitch is extracted , the mitten is flung within reach of the groping fingers ; they have closed over it , and the old woman wakens with a grunt of satisfaction at the security in which she still holds her prize , while Angie makes haste to empty the contents of her apron into the fire before Margery , whose step is already on the stairs , can reënter the kitchen . 
thought Angie , as , sinking down , like one crushed by some heavy weight , she listened to the ticking of the clock above her head , and felt as if each stroke were the stroke of doom . 
Margery and Angie trembled and shrank into corners , where they kept a sharp lookout , however , like two spies , as they were . 
continued he , suddenly addressing Angie , who had gradually crept close to his elbow , and whose agitation , for the first time , attracted his notice , `` how shaky you are on yer underpinnin ' , an ' yer face hai n't got no more color than a white pine board . 
With a strong effort at self-command , Angie followed him . 
`` George is n't about home , Mr. Van Hausen , '' she found voice to utter . 
We do n't expect him back at present , '' ventured Angie ; then added , in a hesitating tone , `` he and I have quarrelled . '' 
Then let me tell yer , '' he added to Angie , who looked wretched and penitent enough just then to have been spared the rebuke , `` that you 've done about the misfortinest thing that ever you was up ter . 
Van Hausen was soliloquizing , so he never heeded the fact that there was no response to his words on Angie 's part ; but while she stood stunned and torpid , like a mouse just released from a lion 's grip , he turned away and went ploughing through the snow , continuing to mutter to himself as he went . 
That `` scar ` t '' look seemed to convict her of participation in the dreadful secret , but on the other hand , after Van Hausen had gone , she became composed , and even went about her common household duties . 
Not once did Angie , who was keenly observant , catch her eye , -- not one syllable of information did she glean from her lips . 
Mute and downcast , she groped about the kitchen hearth , the woodshed , or her son 's attic chamber , -- not a glance of curiosity , not an exclamation of alarm , escaping her , -- stranger still , not a murmur , not even a sigh . 
Silence had set its seal upon her , and a stone statue could not have been more non-committal . 
Angie , who , stationed within hearing , had also been drinking in the news , darted forward and busied herself in collecting the fragments . 
Angie 's ear did not catch the exact purport of his words , but the epithet bestowed on her was intelligible enough , and she retreated instinctively from his vicinity . 
Angie moved off in the direction of the woodshed with the broken crockery in her apron . 
said Angie in an interrogative tone to Margery , and she put on her hood and commenced tying it . 
Margery answered by casting a shrinking glance towards the bed-room , as if she feared being left alone with its inmate , at the same time clinging to Angie 's hand , which she caught and held tight , veiling the action , however , beneath the folds of a shawl that hung over the girl 's arm . 
`` I 'll come back by and by , '' whispered Angie , at once putting a right interpretation upon the look and gesture . 
Margery , satisfied with this promise , released her hold , and Angie hastened home to dine with her father , or at least sit down with him to the Christmas dinner , which she knew both he and Happy would be disappointed if she were not there to share . 
It was a hard ordeal for Angie . 
He now talked volubly , speculated wildly , and plied Angie with questions , each one of which was to her an instrument of torture . 
The tough fowl , the last of his race , which , like Mr. Cousin 's other experiments in farming , had never thriven , was larded and interlarded with the melancholy particulars , which Mr. Cousin had gleaned ; and Happy 's pastry was seasoned with such minute details as could be extracted from Angie concerning the circumstances that had transpired at the cottage , -- subjects little favorable to Christmas cheer under any circumstances ! 
-- to Angie , a wretched foretaste of what Fate had in store for her . 
Burdened as she was with a weight of suffering , sin , and secrecy , she realized how hopeless would be any attempt to hide or flee from the poisoned shafts which the curiosity , the malice , and the gossip of the neighborhood would hourly inflict . 
Fortunately for her , no degree of agitation was a matter of surprise in a community where all were excited by rumors , fears , and exaggerations ; and for the inward pain , thathad so fastened its fang upon her , that , struggle as she might , it would not yield its prey ; and , so that she had strength given her not to betray , she was nerved to endure . 
And nobody suspected her , and she bore up . 
It was towards dusk , when Angie once more prepared to make her way through the snowdrifts to Margery 's cottage . 
Mr. Cousin , early broken of his rest , and wearied with the excitements of the day , had fallen asleep in his arm-chair , and Angie , before leaving , took the precaution to inform Happy that unless she came home before dark , it might be taken for granted that she meant to spend the night at Mrs. Rawle 's . 
Such were the questions which Angie asked herself as she drew near the window , pressed her face against its frosty panes , and followed Margery 's motions with an observant eye . 
Whether it was anxiety , fear , or simply curiosity which impelled Angie 's scrutiny , the result was apparently decisive , for , after a few minutes of earnest watching she withdrew a few steps from the window , and quietly waited until Margery 's supply of fuel was exhausted . 
Never mind me , I 'm alone , '' said Angie , soothingly , while Margery sank into a chair , speechless . 
`` You 've got a good fire , '' said Angie , with an attempt at her usual cheerful ease . 
`` I 'm glad of it , for I 'm cold and damp ; '' and throwing her shawl over the back of a chair , and placing herself on a low seat in the chimney-corner , she continued , pointing to the bed-room , -- `` Is she asleep ? '' 
If Angie had a doubt regarding the nature of Margery 's recent employment , here was an opportunity of solving it . 
Angie knew the corner in which the products of her industry were invariably stowed . 
Scarcely had Angie 's suspicion , however , the time to flash into certainty ; scarcely had the brass drawer handle ceased to click against its metallic plate as the drawer flew back into its place , when the front door of the cottage opened , and a visitor entered . 
Coming as he did from the direction of the road , and passing only a window whose shutter was closed and barred , Stein had not enjoyed the same opportunity that Angie had of surveying the premises before entering . 
said Angie , facing about briskly , and at the same time with a carelessness -LRB- if it were carelessness -RRB- very unusual to her , contriving to push the chair , over which her shawl hung , nearly into the fire . 
`` I hope I see you well to-night , Miss Angie , '' said the dingy little brown man , bowing low ; `` pretty well -- that is , -- of course -- considering -- '' with a series of pauses which were intended , like his words , to qualify the possibility of rude health under the present depressing circumstances -- then , stopping short , and with his nose elevated ; `` do n't I smell something ? 
Margery , terrified alike by her brother 's presence and his question looked distractedly wild ; but Angie had already provided for this emergency , and was sufficient for the occasion . 
was the girl 's quick response to Stein 's query ; and darting forward , she snatched from the embers one end of the woollen shawl , which , truly enough , was dangling where Angie had purposely thrust it , just over the bed of coals , -- a second burnt-offering laid on that fiery altar , and no vain one either ; for , as Hannah , wakened by the sound of voices , now started up with the cry , `` You 're all a-fire ! '' 
Angie , zealously smothering the flames , was able to satisfy her also with the assurance , `` My shawl 's been on fire , ma'am , but I 've put it out -- it 's of no consequence . '' 
Harsh rebukes these , for Angie ; she , so used to flattery , was getting blamed on all sides to-day . 
But such blame was praise to her ears . 
It proved the success of her ruse , and protected the achievement of Margery . 
Stein heard and winced a little , but as Margery and Angie were at too great a distance to have heard also , he prudently forbore taking any notice of the insinuation . 
`` I was only thinking , '' he went on , by way of explanation to Angie , to whom , reëntering the kitchen , he now addressed himself , `` that they might naturally feel a little lonely and shaky-like after last night ; but Mis ' Rawle 's got uncommon stout nerves , so between 'em I reckon they 'll do , especially with such excellent neighbors as they have at hand , '' -- and Stein , dressed now in his mask of obsequiousness , bowed and took his hat . 
If it had n't been for Miss Angie here , I do n't know what you 'd have done for the want of him . 
But , '' turning to Angie , and lapsing into his complimentary vein , `` one steady gal 's worth a dozen wild lads any day ; '' then , in an insinuating whisper , -- `` he is n't worthy of you , Miss Angie , never was ; but there 's a fine young fellow , of a considerable higher figure in life , that 'll be glad enough to cut him out in the good graces of our New Jarsey belle that we 're all so proud of . 
-- and with a flourish of the hand that would have become a supernumerary in a low comedy , he went his way out of the house , chuckling at his own skill in trimming his sails according as the wind chanced to set , and attributing Angie 's shamefaced looks to an affectation of modesty . 
Margery looked imploringly at Angie . 
Margery crept timidly into the bed-room , and , with some hesitation and difficulty , made known Angie 's intention to spend the night at the cottage . 
was the exclamation that next reached Angie 's ear . 
This was the last home-thrust , however , which Angie was to experience that night . 
As Margery did not attempt to defend her young neighbor 's forwardness , Hannah , satisfied with having given vent to her disgust at the intrusion , lay quite still , and offered no further interference . 
It required but a few moments to carry out Angie 's plan , and she and Margery were soon stretched side by side on their bed upon the kitchen floor . 
But Angie had felt the truth before . 
And she kept her own counsel . 
She swung into the house abruptly , and , with a noisy flourish , slammed the back door , by which she had entered , then spying Angie at the pantry cupboard , engaged in skimming a pan of milk , she wholly neglected , or forgot the original object of her visit , and planting herself at Angie 's elbow , began to watch , question , and tease her . 
asked Angie , with undisguised indifference . 
Upon this Polly feigned to make a great secret of the matter ; but after taking innumerable airs , and twitting Angie a while with her saucy tongue , she could not resist the desire to display her own superior knowledge of the captain 's movements , and so it came out at length that he had gone , on the morning of Sunday -LRB- Christmas day -RRB- , to the city , where he was engaged -LRB- as he had himself told Polly -RRB- to a grand dinner-party , at a fine house on the Battery , -- the owner being an old gentleman of tory prejudices , and a friend of some connection of the captain 's in London . 
`` That do n't promise very well for his country acquaintances , '' remarked Angie , dryly . 
Angie 's astonishment , not to say disgust , at this remark , was such that she ceased skimming the milk , -- a process which Polly 's entrance and conversation had marred , but not hitherto interrupted , -- and turning her head , gave Polly an earnest look , as if she were scrutinizing her thoughts . 
Polly , checking her laughter as suddenly as if she had been strangled , now whispered to Angie in a frightened tone , `` Is aunt Hannah in there ? 
`` She 's up , '' replied Angie , `` and sitting by the kitchen fire . 
was Hannah 's salutation to her niece . 
It was during the pause that succeeded , when Hannah was leaning back in her chair with a red spot flushing each cheek , and Polly was staring stupidly on the floor , that Angie came in from the pantry . 
She wore her hood and shawl , and brought the tea-kettle in her hand . 
And as Angie completed her arrangements at the fireplace , and quickly and capably swept up the hearth , the eyes of the observing old woman rested on her complacently . 
`` I 'll go at the same time , '' said Polly , starting eagerly as Angie moved towards the door . 
`` You 'd better stay a while in my place , '' suggested Angie , with an endeavor to evade her company . 
`` Take her ` long with you , for goodness ' sake , '' interposed Hannah , who detected the hesitation on Angie 's part . 
The matter was no longer optional with Angie , however ; Polly had already darted through the doorway , and was the first outside . 
was her exclamation , before Angie had closed the door behind them . 
`` I do n't see how you can bear to stay there , Angie ; I would n't be hired to . 
It makes her keen and cross , I suppose , '' remarked Angie . 
`` Good by ; I 'm going across the fields , '' said Angie , with a second effort to escape Polly 's society . 
`` The path 's better worn by the road , '' suggested Angie ; but it was of no avail ; Polly did not mind the deep snow -- liked it -- was determined to go the same way that Angie went . 
Angie moved on in advance , and walked as fast as she could . 
and Polly came alongside and linked her arm in Angie 's , disregarding the fact that the footpath across the fields was hardly wide enough for one . 
Angie trembled ; she was so afraid Polly meant to question her about George . 
Not that she had ever really thought of rivalling Angie in this quarter , but she liked to take advantage of an instance of pique between the lovers , to boast of her familiarity with George , insinuate her suspicions of his feelings and his preferences , and hint at the terms of cousinly confidence which had grown out of their close relationship . 
It had sometimes happened , in this way , that she had succeeded in exciting Angie 's curiosity , and by feigning a knowledge which she did not possess , had extracted from Angie confessions which the latter afterwards regretted ; for Polly , as a self-appointed meddler and go-between , always contrived to make mischief , and generally to widen the breach . 
It had long since become instinctive with Angie to avoid her interrogations and interference in all matters where George was concerned . 
How much more then when life and death were in the balance , and a word might betray , did she shrink from committing the scales of fate to such dangerous hands . 
But now she had agitated herself needlessly on this point . 
She could talk of nothing but the captain ; and though the captain was not a topic on which Angie could dwell without pain , it was a blessed relief from what she had anticipated . 
So she listened with patience and a tolerable show of interest while Polly dwelt on the trivial details connected with this distinguished guest at the tavern ; telling at what time he usually took his meals , at what time he breakfasted on the morning of his departure , what choice viands were served up for him by Polly 's own direction , and what compliments he paid to her while she was presiding at the coffee-pot , and entertaining him with the particulars of her uncle 's murder just brought to light . 
Polly told all this with such relish , a relish infinitely enhanced by the sting of jealousy she believed herself to he awakening in her hearer , that Angie was spared the necessity of encouraging her by a word . 
Even when there was a pause , Polly was so engaged with self-important airs and meditations on her own triumph , that she was content to let Angie proceed in mortified silence , and so they reached Mr. Cousin 's house long before this fruitful topic was exhausted . 
Angie stood with her hand on the door-latch waiting to bid Polly good-by ; but Polly did not stir , and kept on talking . 
At last Angie verged upon rudeness in her efforts to get excused and go into the house , interrupting Polly with , `` You can tell me the rest some other time ; it 's so cold standing here . 
The moment they entered the sitting room , Angie 's eye fell on a letter which lay upon the table , directed , as she saw at a glance , to herself . 
Every thing frightened Angie now , and instinctively her hand closed over the letter , but not before Polly also had spied it and recognized the handwriting . 
cried Polly ; and grasping Angie 's hand , she snatched the letter from under it , and held it up to the light . 
Angie 's eyes flashed with anger and repressed alarm . 
She made a motion to recover the letter ; but Polly , having convinced herself that it was really Angie 's property , flung it over her head , and turned to ask Happy , who was just looking in from the kitchen , by what messenger it had come . 
`` Your pa 's stable-boy fetched it , miss ; he says the gen ` l'man he driv to York giv it to him for Miss Angie . '' 
The utmost that her pertinacious cross-questioning could extract from the clumsy Mercury was to the effect that `` the letter to Miss Angie Cousin , an ' a shillin ' to pay fur carrvin ' it , was the only arrant , ` cept a dab o ' paper to Mr. Stein , tellin ' where to send the cap'n 's trunk , 'cause he was n't comin ' back no more . '' 
Meanwhile Angie , left to herself , meekly took her letter from the floor , broke the seal , stamped with what looked like a family crest , and read as follows : -- `` Adieu ! 
Adieu , then , my charmer , and let me hope you will sometimes remember , with a sigh of regret , Shame , indignation , disgust -- all the emotions which a proud girl can feel , who has been humbled , slighted , and scorned by a worthless and conceited lover , rose up together , and scourged poor Angie until her blood tingled in every vein . 
`` For this -- for this , '' thought she , as she dashed the letter on the table , `` I have bargained every thing -- all that life had promised , or sin and death could destroy . 
and she pressed her hand against her heart , which , in her intensity of contrition and agony , seemed as if it would burst . 
She had thrown herself into a chair in the farthest corner of the room ; her eyelids were convulsively strained together , as if she were striving to imprison her very soul in darkness . 
She could not shut out the remorseful and degrading images that were torturing her . 
Witnesses of a love that had been true to her from her childhood were thronging around her with sad , reproachful look . 
The ghastly countenance of the murdered man transfixed her with its stare . 
The poor fugitive from justice , his features stained with sin and distorted with despair , looked back at her accusingly . 
Ministers of vengeance shook their threatening fingers in the air , and the fiendish faces of demons mocked her with their laughter . 
The last all wore the features of the captain -- the varying expressions that had so captivated her a few days since only serving now to give variety to insult . 
The terrible events of the last two days had so pressed upon one another that until now Angie had almost forgotten the part the captain had played in the drama , at least had forgotten to reproach him . 
But now he had forced himself upon her remembrance , and with bitter upbraiding she exclaimed to herself , `` He has made a fool of me , the cold-hearted wretch ! 
Angie did not spare herself . 
If she cried out in her agony against him who had encouraged her heartlessness , it was not that she might shake off the burden of blame . 
From the first she had bowed herself to that burden . 
Thorough in her penitence , generous in her self-reproach , she would gladly have suffered all the ignominy , borne all the penalty . 
Humiliated to the dust , the one cry of her spirit was , `` On me , on me , let the retribution fall ! '' 
There was retribution enough in store for Angie ; the poor girl scarcely need claim more than her share ; but the hardest feature in her punishment was not the blasting of her own hopes . 
It was seeing the wide-spread desolation caused by the whirlwind , to which she , in the beginning , had lent breath . 
If Angie could have been at once struck out of the game of life , she would have submitted gladly . 
As it was , hers was to be a harder fate ; she was to live and look on . 
Nor was she even to be suffered to meditate undisturbed . 
Not for self , henceforth , was her life to be . 
In action and in sympathy she must , for the future , find her mission and her solace . 
She was roused from her wretched self-indulgence by a sudden , loud cry , accompanied by a deep heaving from some human breast near her , and succeeded by an outburst of vehement weeping . 
She looked up suddenly , and there , opposite to her , sat Polly , the captain 's letter open at her feet , and her whole frame convulsed with sobs . 
She had come back unheard by Angie , and taking advantage of the latter 's abstraction , had read the letter from beginning to end , -- a fact of which she seemed to feel no shame and attempted no concealment . 
Angie , not comprehending the scene at a first glance , and moved only by astonishment , started up , and ran to her , thinking from the noise she made , that she was hurt and in bodily pain ; but Polly pushed her back with evident spite , and kept on crying , not sentimentally nor hysterically , but with a loud blubbering cry , like that of a whipped school-boy . 
Angie looked down , saw the letter , and felt a momentary contempt for her visitor , which was not softened when Polly , observing Angie 's glance , sprang to her feet , and vented a portion of her rage by stamping on the letter , and then spurning it , or , more correctly , kicking it across the floor with her foot . 
Angie picked it up for the second time , folded it , and put it in her pocket . 
Ole Hap thought mebbe Miss Angie was a beatin ' yer ; same as ole missis down South used to beat dis yer nigger wench , but ebery body 's so ` cited and crazedlike , dis yer time , dat dey cries for little or nothin ' ; '' and Happy , apparently concluding that Polly 's case was of this kind , retreated into her kitchen and shut the door . 
Polly now dropped her arms upon the table and her head upon her arms , and began to gasp and choke , so that Angie was first frightened , and at length moved to pity ; for this grief , though coarse and childish in its expression , was , nevertheless , unmistakably real . 
`` Do n't cry so , Polly , '' she said at length , laying her hand kindly on Polly 's shoulder . 
suggested Angie , by way of consolation . 
In spite of Polly 's malice , which made itself evident in the earlier part of this remark , Angie , who was in no mood to care for her spite , much less retort , assented to the later proposition , selfish as it was , saying , in a sympathetic tone , `` Yes , it is a shame ! '' 
But Polly here contradicted herself by bursting into another passionate fit of crying , which Angie judged it best to wait the conclusion of in silence . 
Apparently , Polly considered her boasted courage a good thing to rest her cause upon , for , after a great effort , she succeeded in mastering her tears , gradually settling into the sulks , -- a mood in which she was scornfully indifferent to Angie 's offer of water to bathe her face , by this time extremely red and tear-stained . 
was her rude acknowledgment of the attention ; and jerking her shoulders from side to side to express her aversion to her hostess , she wiped her face with a soiled pocket-handkerchief , readjusted her bonnet and shawl , and flounced out of the house . 
Angie watched her go down the road , and unconsciously groaned aloud . 
Absurd as Polly 's pretensions might be , and degrading as was her manifestation of disappointment , Angie thus murmured to herself : `` Poor thing ! 
and Angie , the fountain of whose sympathies was stirred to its depth , groaned not merely for Polly , not merely for herself , but for a whole world lying in wickedness , and for a sorrow as world-wide as the sin . 
but Angie could not moralize . 
She could only feel . 
That she did feel this , and more , there could be no doubt , for she closed the drawer solemnly , as if it had been a tomb , and it was years before she ventured again to open it . 
She wandered about the house a while in the restlessness of despair , avoiding Happy Boose for fear of her inquisitive tongue , and not venturing down stairs until she heard her father come in . 
Then she went below , and entertained him as well as she could , making his tea as usual , and trying to appear collected and cheerful . 
She even played a game at draughts with the old Frenchman , and did not leave for the night until it was near his bed-time . 
asked Happy , as she followed her to the door . 
I thought , Miss Angie , when I see you giv ' him a walkin ' ticket , that we 'd be wishin ' him back bad nuff , ` fore long . '' 
`` No ; O no ; nobody 'll hurt me , '' replied Angie , peering into the darkness with terror , however , as she spoke . 
`` Law , Miss Angie , '' said Happy , `` I ai n't much feard o ' them villains , -- leastways would n't be ef massa wa n't so discouragin ' jes at bed-time ; but what with puttin ' the carvin ' knife where ' t 'll be handy , an ' fastenin ' up the winders with the kitchin forks , it seems as if he ` spected ' em , sure . 
I says my prayers ebery night , an ' I b ` lieve the Lord 'll take care o ' massa an ' ole Hap ; but once in a while , you know , Miss Angie , there 's ugly critturs roun ' that will rob and murder spite o ' any body . '' 
With which final intimation of a doubt the faithful Happy watched Angie 's plunge into the gloom , and continued listening in the door-way until she had had time to reach her destination , after which the old negress assisted Mr. Cousin in prudently fastening up the doors and windows , -- a precaution universally observed at Stein 's Plains ever since the event which had served to alarm the whole neighborhood . 
`` Wal , it seems Angie owned up to him the mornin ' arter Baultie 's affair , that she an ' Geordie 'd quarrelled the day before , an ' she had n't seen him since , an ' did n't expect to . 
O , Van Hausen never minces matters ; when he heerd o ' this thing he laid it all to her door , same 's I do -- same as every body will , allers . '' 
`` She 's got a great load to bear , then , '' remarked Rycker . 
Angie opened the door . 
He thanked her by laying his hand kindly on her head . 
How it awed her -- poor girl ! 
and added to her fright at seeing the dominie . 
He saluted them with his old-fashioned courtesy , and took a chair , which Angie placed for him between them . 
Standing with George 's mother pressed to her bosom , her form branced up to meet the shock , and a dilated eye that for the moment put fate at defiance , Angie awaited the next word . 
As he uttered the fatal words , -- before he uttered them even -- when they had merely framed themselves visibly on his lips , -- Angie 's arms were loosened from their embrace of Margery ; all the fibres of her body , so strained an instant before , suddenly slackened , and as if smitten by the thunderbolt , whose stroke she was deemed to merit , she sank down , down to the very floor , giving utterance to no sound -- simply sliding lower and lower , until her knees touched the hearth at Margery 's feet . 
Again the dominie shook his head , still anxiously measuring with his eye the mother 's power of endurance , as well as that of Angie , who had risen and stood beside Margery , rigid and calm . 
And so , by a few vehement queries , she extracted all that the minister knew , stabbing Margery and Angie with her eyes between whiles , and condemning them for what she thought their unnatural want of feeling . 
Angie went home to her father , Margery sank into a nonentity , Hannah ruled the house . 
There was no motive for Angie 's further continuance at the cottage , nor did Margery remonstrate , even by a look , when she said , `` I will carry our bed up stairs ; you will not mind sleeping with hernow -LRB- pointing to Hannah -RRB- ; I will go home to-night . '' 
Angie realized that the necessity for coöperation between herself and Margery was past ; that their suffering would be none the less mutual because endured apart , and that her only rightful place was home . 
Poor Angie ! 
A little while ago so bright , so beautiful , so gay a thing , it seems hard to consign her thus to a dreary tomb . 
For a while we must leave her then to solitude , darkness , and the undying worm . 
Angie , who had purposely delayed going home until after Van Hausen 's anxiously expected visit , but who dreaded to encounter him face to face , gazed tremblingly out from the corner of a dark passage in the cellar-way , where she had taken refuge on his entrance . 
Angie leaned forward from the cellar-way , in the rear of Dick 's chair ; -- with one shrinking eye on him , she strained the other in the direction of Margery . 
Angie , who had already heard too much , poor thing ! 
waited for no more ; but as soon as she had recovered from the shock Dick 's words had given her , and made sure that she was undiscovered , crept stealthily down the cellar stairs , and found her way out of the house by an ignominious passage , ordinarily used only by the rats , the frequency of whose presence in these quarters had secured and covered her retreat . 
cried Hannah , firing up , and becoming Angie 's champion at once , for she saw the drift of Dick 's argument , `` has a gal got to take up with whoever comes loafin ' round , fur fear the feller 'll drown himself ? 
He had not ridden many rods down the road when he overtook Angie , who had not yet gained the shelter of home . 
Fleeing , as she did , in secret , she had come away without shawl or hood , and had thrown her dress over her head as a protection from the keen winter wind . 
She looked forlorn enough making her way through the snow , for there had been a second storm , and the cross roads were almost impassable ; but her appearance became more wild and eerie still , as hearing his horse 's step she gave a quick glance behind her in the dusk and saw who was approaching . 
was her first thought ; and , crouching beneath the folds of her dress , she sprang aside into a deep drift . 
Instinctively she dropped the disguise which had so startled the horse , thus baring her head and shoulders to the piercing wind . 
she inwardly exclaimed , and looked up imploringly , her hands clasped together as if deprecating his anger , her hair streaming in the wind . 
He saw her , and he did not see her ; he grasped the whip , but it was only , as it proved , to strike the horse , and riding off at double speed , he left her there as unnoticed as if she had been a stone . 
And to a stone her heart seemed to turn at this neglect . 
He had used no violence -- he had only annihilated her with his scorn . 
It was no mistake , no mere suspicion on her part , for , as then , so again and again in the future -- he never seemed to see her -- let him encounter her where or when , and they often met , he never appeared to be in the least degree conscious of her presence . 
No malice nor disdain , experienced elsewhere , so stung her to the quick as the unpremeditated revenge that had grown naturally out of this strong man 's deep disgust . 
Long years of obloquy could not teach her more fully than she felt at this moment how utterly she had died to human favor , and thus to the world . 
No wonder that she hurried home to bury herself in that consecrated spot , -- all that is left to her on earth . 
Well for her too that the earth is the Lord 's -- the whole of it . 
In his care let her spirit await a resurrection , and may he have mercy on hersoul ! 
Let us see what these provisions of mercy have done for Angie . 
Old Happy Boose fell ill and died ; and in nursing the faithful servant and performing the household drudgery besides , Angie had little rest by night or day . 
She went through her tasks , indeed , like a machine -- but like a machine , she never faltered nor complained . 
That Angie was able thus automatically to pursue the round of every-day duty , her usefulness unimpaired by the terrible shocks she had sustained , only confirmed what was evidenced in the first stages of the conflict , that the necessity for action is the parent of self-control , and thus the preserver alike of reason and of health . 
But for the absolute demands that were made upon her that winter in her home , Angie 's excitable temperament might have become so wrought upon that her career would have ended in wasting disease or madness . 
As it was , God gave her earthly work to do , and her physical powers of endurance were brought out , and her senses maintained in their rightful equilibrium . 
Thus the hardening process commenced during the frosts of Christmas , and by spring she was inured to her lot . 
Only Heaven 's touch can heal this inner smart , and Angie 's remorse burned on . 
She had come too near to sin to escape its retribution . 
Great crimes had overshadowed her with their horror , and a vague sense of participation in them had taken possession of her , and would not be driven away . 
Conscience was ever pointing down the gulf in which a soul had perished , and accusing her of having hurried it on to its doom . 
True , the crime was his , but it was she who had sharpened the instrument for the deed ; she who had lit the fires of jealousy and desperation in which he had hardened himself for acts of violence and blood . 
True , she had only trifled with a loving heart , as thousands trifle daily , and never wake to any consciousness of wrong , far less of actual crime . 
Angie 's eyes were opened , and she saw what she had done , -- saw more than she had done , -- for imagination lent itself to memory and aggravated every offence . 
Volumes could never detail the windings of her mind as it roamed through all the passages of the past , rehearsing the devotion , the tenderness , the patience of years on George 's part ; the tyranny , the petulance , the caprice on hers ; and speculating as to their possible bearing on the young man 's character and destiny , her reflections always ending in a cold shudder as she recalled the ill-timed scorn , the bitter reproaches , the mocking laugh into which she had been betrayed on the night of the ball , and which had , as she felt assured , put the finishing stroke to the young man 's fate . 
But though time and toil were no antidote to this poisoned sting , which always lay in wait for her peace of mind , they in some degree controlled its action and modified its influence upon her outward life . 
The shock with which Angie had been thrust from the heights of vanity and self-satisfaction to the depths of conscious degradation and remorse , was an experience of the moral nature not unlike that which the unfortunate barber suffered in the flesh . 
As in his case , too , though her after condition was one of helplessness and torment , the wrench she had endured in the transformation proved but temporary . 
As day after day passed on , her first bewilderment and horror gave place to a dull and settled misery . 
She became accustomed to the thought of Geordie as lost , -- eternally lost ; of herself , as in the same hopeless state ; of the past , as a burden from which there was no escape , and of the future , as promising nothing but a continuation of pain . 
She whose moral mirror had heretofore reflected a gay figure , flaunting in holiday finery , recognized herself through the dirt and rags in which selfcontempt had clothed her ; she , who had danced through life with Hope for her partner , now sat down with Despair for her sole companion . 
And she became used to the Cinderella garb , -- used to the sad companionship , -- or if habit failed to inure her to them , hard work came to its assistance . 
The cold perspiration , the momentary palsy of the heart which sometimes stole over , or seized upon her in her hours of deep despondency , were sure to be speedily dispelled by the demand for her services here , there , and every where . 
In constant attendance upon her father , the household , and Happy Boose , she had little leisure to take the gauge of her own lot , real or imaginary , and even remorse found its best solace at the wash tub , the oven , the kitchen hearth , the mop and broom , and the sick bed of the old negress . 
If there was any virtue in the half-sullen submission , the enforced drudgery , the compelled self-contempt , which at present constituted the chief features of Angie 's life , it did not manifest itself outwardly . 
Whatever change there was in her was apparently a change for the worse . 
She still had a word of encouragement for old Hap , a constrained smile for her father , a helping hand to spare now and then for the two old women at the cottage ; but the grace , the beauty , the charm that hung around her former life had all been swept away by the blast , and no new virtues had yet blossomed in their place . 
It was winter with her yet , and her life was very desolate and bare , -- poor thing ! 
Her father scarcely noticed the change , neither did old Hap . 
The one was ailing , depressed , and nervous himself from the effect of recent events , -- what else could he expect from her ? 
-- and the other was dying , groaning her old life away in mortal pain ; and every other agony was but a dim reflection of her own . 
So engrossing were Angie 's duties , so utter her seclusion , that from Christmas time until spring she never went further from home than the Widow Rawle 's cottage , a daily visit to which , usually paid at sundown , was less a recreation than a religious rite , so painful were her associations with the place and its inmates . 
And in spite of the curiosity felt concerning her , the undertaker , who went some time in April to take the measure for Happy 's coffin , was the first among the village gossips who could boast of having had a glimpse of Angie since Geordie made away with himself . 
Most of the neighbors had kept aloof ; at first , `` from principle , '' they said , to show their opinion of her ; later , perhaps , from shame ; we will hope so , for shame 's sake . 
Old Hap 's case was of too hopeless a nature for his skill , and besides Hap had no faith in him , was skilled , as she affirmed , `` in yarbs , '' and chose to doctor herself . 
Spring-time , which brings back the birds , turns the grass green , and coaxes the flowers out into the sunshine ; Spring , which pays for all that winter costs , and settles up Nature 's account with man ; -- spring-time brought release to old Happy , and the price of all her pain was peace . 
But the winter of poor Angie 's life had not yet made a spring for her . 
All was cold , hard , dark in the soil of her stricken heart . 
No seed of hope had sprouted there , no ray of sunshine , melting the winter snow , had diffused its moisture through the dry crust that enshrouded her soul in gloom . 
What if his flock of sheep , imported from France , had dwindled down to a few pet lambs of Angie 's ? 
The general breaking up , thus looked forward to , could , of course , be nothing else than the unearthing of poor Angie , the only victim left to suffer from the coming chaos . 
With her last protector gone , it was but too evident that the poor refugee would at length be driven from her hiding-place , and compelled to face the light . 
It was known that the farm-boy had taken himself off weeks before , that the one-eyed horse had been seized by Jock the miller in payment for grain , and that the pig had gone to offset the butcher 's account ; it was even whispered that the farming tools had either been stolen or sold off the place , and that the old `` equipage , '' now sported by Farmer Rycker , had been bargained for with Angie for a song . 
But , no one knew -- no , they neverknew -- for even death and the funeral did not reveal that , -- how Angie had plotted and planned to keep starvation from the door ; how , when every thing else that could be disposed of was gone , she had made her way to New York and back on foot , and had obtained as the price of the three silver tea-spoons and her mother 's wedding-ring , money enough to purchase a few necessaries ; and how , when some weeks later the means were again wanting to obtain medicine for the sick man , she had cropped off her own beautiful hair -- every lock of it -- and sent it secretly to the wig-maker in Broadway , who made and dressed Mr. Cousin 's wigs , and who had once offered her a handsome sum for her jetty curls , little suspecting that the time would ever come when she would bring her mind to parting with them . 
Had they known all this at Stein 's Plains , there were kind-hearted people among them who would have been stirred to sympathy and action in behalf of Angie and her father . 
Angie had no tears to weep . 
She had shed them all . 
They had flowed like a beneficent shower , and left her strengthened and refreshed . 
Since she first came under the cloud she had never before felt its blessed rain , and it was only beside her dead father 's body that she knew the relief it brought . 
So Angie remained tearless while others wept . 
She kept herself aloof and alone . 
They stole glances at her at every opportunity ; she followed all their movements with a distrustful , suspicious stare , but spoke to nobody and nobody spoke to her . 
Her face was haggard , but flushed with excitement or the heat . 
She wore no mourning ; -- her cropped hair , clinging in little round curls to her temples , gave a conspicuous novelty to her appearance ; even her attitude was out of rule , for , instead of seating herself , she stood near the head of the coffin , as if jealous of her sole ownership in its contents , and now and then bending forward , brushed a fly from the dead face . 
was the indignant conclusion of a third , who was complacently wiping a tear from her own eye . 
It was the traits inherited from this heathen quarter -LRB- so said the critics -RRB- which had caused Angie to be guilty of such wicked levity . 
They had not thought all the sweet graces of her nature , when they were uppermost , such a bad inheritance ; perhaps the time would some day come when virtues , born of the Frenchman 's blood , would once more make his memory fragrant . 
`` He allers gave liberally at the donation meetin 's , '' suggested Briny 's sympathizing friend , the tearful female , who felt the death so much more than Angie , and who , though to a timid , retiring nature , ventured to come in feebly to Briny 's support . 
It was no stinted performance , occupying as it did nearly the space of an hour ; but as the earlier portion was a statement of facts , and intended for the audience generally , and the second of the nature of a warning , and aimed particularly at Angie , only the last and smaller portion could properly be deemed a prayer . 
The faithful , for whose lives he praised God , were so described as to include none but the sound believers of those very doctrines against whose narrowness and bigotry Mr. Cousin had always contended ; the hopes of salvation on which the dominie expatiated were so arbitrarily limited as to exclude all those whom poor Angie had ever loved from any share in the inheritance ; even the heaven , on whose coming glories he dwelt at length , produced the impression on one 's mind of a strong-walled fortress , built purposely to keep out the many , rather than of the Father 's house , wherein even a few were blessed . 
The audience generally were satisfied though , especially the more self-righteous among them , who , while congratulating themselves on their own security , rejoiced that the dominie had done his duty , and held out no delusive hopes to any one ; and as for Angie , it did not matter much . 
The directness of the minister 's charge , the style of expressions he employed , had indeed startled her , as the rustling of branches startles the poor beast that is conscious of the hunter 's pursuit , but beyond that his words left no impression . 
She was not in a condition to weigh their meaning . 
Angie had wept herself calm before the funeral hour arrived ; but she was in no way prepared for this sudden inroad upon half a year 's seclusion . 
From her vague sense of wonder at finding herself the object of so many eyes , she had gradually been passing through all the stages of bewilderment , awe , and terror , until her stock of self-control was well-nigh exhausted . 
When the prayer ceased , when the bearers took away the corpse , from the mere presence of which she had hitherto found support , and she was left with only a vacant space in front of her , her forced rigidity gave way . 
She made one bound forward , as if to reclaim the precious burden they were carrying out ; then , recollecting herself , cast a frantic glance at the circle of faces around her , and reading only curiosity in their steady gaze , felt perhaps for a moment as some snared wild creature might do on suddenly finding itself caged , and , flinging out her arms as if to grasp at some support , uttered a shrill , wailing cry . 
All drew back , many startled , some moved to pity ; they glanced anxiously at her and at one another , but no one came forward to offer help or comfort ; no one dared , perhaps , for there was something almost threatening in her look . 
he said , and made a motion to lead her away . 
She looked up into his face , as if to read there `` friend ? '' 
A tear stood on his eyelid , a genuine tear , shed for her , called forth by that orphan cry . 
She clung to him as a dove to the ark , and he led her away . 
The people followed , but they were behind her now , out of sight . 
She could weep without their knowledge ; and she did weep , for kindness had unlocked the fountain , and the refreshing tears flowed again . 
He guided her gently along the road-side and across the fields , remembering how blinded were her weeping eyes . 
It was not a long walk from the farm-house to the graveyard , and he did not venture to disturb her by a word . 
Still , when they stood at length by the open grave , his massive form interposed between her and the crowd , and his arm supporting her tenderly while she watched them lower the coffin , the fierce , wild , rebellious spirit was gone out of her and she was calm . 
He took her home by a circuitous path through the fields , thus avoiding the curious eyes of the neighbors who might be loitering along the road-side , watching for her return . 
She shook her head in the negative , and pointed towards Margery 's cottage . 
Angie thanked him by a look . 
A reluctant expression passed over her face . 
Her form shrank nervously -- she turned away her head . 
He had not been able to quite shut her out of the sacred places then , sinner though she was . 
He waited a while to see if she would not relent , but she gave no sign of yielding . 
She half turned towards him , saw enough of his face to read how much in earnest he was , and putting a strong constraint upon herself , answered promptly , `` Yes , I will come . '' 
he said , taking both her hands in his , approvingly . 
He was going now , but something moved him still further to add , laying a hand solemnly on her head , as he had once done , months before . 
The harsh outlines , the severe coloring of his theology , mattered not to Angie , so long as looking in childlike veneration to him , she beheld an earthly portraiture that aided her conception of the Highest . 
She asked not ; it was something -LRB- for the present it was enough for her -RRB- to love , to trust , to believe in him . 
He knew how to put a light appraisal on every thing that could possibly be made serviceable at the tavern ; and although Mr. Cousin 's floating debts must have been inconsiderable , and there were still articles of value on the place , it so happened that between Stein and an attorney who had the setting of the estate , nothing was left for Angie except the meagre furniture of her own room ; which was respected less from courtesy than from a vague notion these harpies had that it was an inheritance from her mother , and could not be meddled with . 
Hannah Rawle liked Angie ; she had detected her capability the first time she saw her put on the tea-kettle ; she recognized in her none of the faults of which she had been accused in the neighborhood . 
And Angie came -- the spell was never broken ; it lasted , with only slight interruptions -- to the end of their lives . 
Eventually it told greatly in Angie 's favor ; -- but at first the old women were pronounced the `` victims o ' that gal 's lyin ' arts , '' were abused for their indifference to Geordie 's misfortune , or , among the more charitably-disposed , were declared to be in their dotage . 
Only after time had made their relations familiar , and experience had proved them harmonious , did the public condescend to approve the arrangement which gave Angie and the two widows a home together . 
The first winter after Angie came to live with them was one of scarcely less privation and anxiety than she had lately endured in her own home . 
The next season things went better with them , and the event justified Hannah Rawle 's expectations from Angie . 
Angie kept bees , turkeys , and hens , and went regularly to the market town , where she exchanged the produce of poultry-yard , garden , and hive for family necessaries , or sometimes a little hard cash . 
A few sheep , which fed in their only bit of pasture-land by day , and were carefully folded by Angie every night , furnished the wool which kept Margery 's spinning-wheel going all the summer-day , and gave occupation to all their knitting-needles during the long winter evenings . 
Angie , scorned and pitied by the world as the breaker of an honest heart , and herself broken-hearted , meekly bearing this obloquy and shame , if so she might help to shield her dead lover from a more terrible name than that of a suicide . 
Although Angie 's repugnance to society was but partially overcome , it was chiefly through her that social relations were maintained between the inmates of the cottage and the world outside . 
But , as Angie went frequently to market , and purchased whatever was required from the country grocery-store , and , ever since the appeal made to her by the dominie , went regularly to church , it was inevitable that her former familiarity with the neighborhood should be to some degree resumed , or new and different relations be established on the basis of her altered character and circumstances . 
It was hard for poor Angie at first , however , and awkward and trying even for the best-intentioned of her neighbors . 
It was love and pity for poor Geordie , after all , which made them so bitter against her who had been , as they believed , his ruin . 
Had the cases been reversed , they would have remembered her with tenderness , and scorned and hated him as the destroyer . 
Nor did Angie expect or claim any more lenient treatment at their hands ; did they know all that she knew , they might shudder more at the thought of George ; but they would scarcely fear any the less the moral contagion of her presence . 
As one secretly tainted with disease secludes himself , from dread of polluting the surrounding atmosphere , so she shrank morbidly from the society to which she felt herself an alien . 
Her former associates had no need to flee from her ; she instinctively avoided them . 
So it happened that for several Sundays after she resumed her attendance at church , she went and came speechless , and unspoken to by any one . 
Several had intended to make a point of bowing to her ; a few , moved either by kindness or curiosity , had prepared something to say ; but she gave them no opportunity , slipping into her place after most of the congregation were assembled for the service , and at its close escaping in advance of her own sex , and gliding through the little crowd of men outside the porch without looking to right or left , her cold , reserved expression forbidding any one to address her . 
There was no embargo , however , upon the eyes and ears of the congregation ; and their tongues , when loosened for one another 's benefit , in the porch or on the homeward drive , were not slow in making their comments upon an object so open to gossip as Angie had become . 
`` Looks as yeared as a young calf , what with her pale face and them short curls o ' hern , '' responds the honest youth , who has had the reputation of `` gawking round after Angie '' all through his boyhood , but who scorns her now for poor Geordie 's sake . 
`` I allers said she 'd come out at the little end o ' the horn , '' remarks Dame Rycker , glancing complacently at Susan , who has just arrived at the great end , Joel having yesterday proposed . 
Such was the burden of the murmur through which Angie flitted , ghostlike , for half a dozen successive Sundays ; a manœuvre on her part which was instinctive , almost involuntary , disappointing not only those among her former friends , who , instigated perhaps by the dominie 's example at the funeral , had meant to have a neighborly chat with her , but disappointing the dominie , who looked vainly for her among the crowd gathered around the porch , disappointing even Angie herself , who yearned for a kind word from the good pastor , but still could not resist the impulse to escape from the church before he had time to reach the foot of the pulpit stairs . 
She had the refreshment of seeing his eye turn always in her direction when she took her seat , with a look that was benediction ; her single drop of dew for the week -- the only one . 
That alone repaid her for the effort she made in coming , but she thirsted for more . 
At last circumstances befriended her . 
For a while Angie 's exit was forbidden , and she found herself involved with the crowd , who were too busy pinning up dresses , covering bonnets with handkerchiefs , and otherwise preparing to meet the storm , to take much notice of her . 
Few lived farther from the church than Angie , but no one invited her to ride even any portion of the way . 
And Angie was about the guiltiest person they knew of just now , the most marked subject for avoidance . 
One or two , indeed , looked at her askance ; there was a whispered consultation near her ; but Angie , catching sound of her own name , did not await the result of the conference . 
She saw a gap in the crowd , darted through , and set out for home in spite of the rain , just before Dominie Van Zandt , for whom every body made way , gained the door , and looked anxiously up and down the road . 
She had no umbrella , and was thinly clad ; it was almost impossible to avoid the puddles ; in a few moments she must inevitably be drenched with the rain ; one wagon , driven carelessly past , nearly ran over her ; another bespattered her with mud . 
Angie has pride enough left to be more conscious of the neighbors ' wagons coming up behind than she is of the rain ; sensitiveness enough to feel the familiar eyes looking down upon her more acutely than she feels the cold east wind that is blowing . 
So she walks fast , and gets the more spattered and wet for doing so , and can not hope to outstrip the carriages after all . 
cries the old man , who has himself alighted , and whose broadcloth is exposed to the torrent , while he assists Angie into the vehicle with the gallantry of a century ago . 
How kindly he talks to her ! 
How careful he is not to notice that she is dripping at all points like a wet umbrella ! 
How fast he drives , so as to deposit his damp passenger at her home as quickly as possible ! 
`` I do n't run from you , sir , '' Angie answers , with emphasis . 
How this adroit hint that she might be of use wrought upon Angie , how she accepted the invitation , how it opened the door to that influence of the old couple , which was , henceforth , like summer showers to the dry ground of her life , belongs to that sacred history of friendship which can never be written . 
What the old couple were to Angie was best shown by the fruits of the renovation to which their kindness proved the life-spring . 
The most tangible of these fruits , and those which appealed most directly to the material mind of Hannah , were the profits of the needlework which the parson and his wife contrived , out of the poverty of the parsonage , to pay Angie liberally for doing , and the superfluities from the annual donation party which helped the inmates of the cottage to eke out a subsistence that first winter of their united experience . 
A less substantial but not less marked effect of the countenance bestowed on Angie at the parsonage was the growing charity for her which it excited in the neighborhood , as well as an increasing confidence on her part in the general good will . 
It never again happened that she was exposed to rain , snow , or sun-stroke for want of invitations to take a seat in somebody 's vehicle on Sundays , and on market-days the farmers , living farther up the cross-road , frequently offered her a place in their wagons either in going or returning . 
At first Angie was chary of accepting these hospitalities , but hers was not a nature to resist kindness or harbor suspicion . 
With the children especially , among whom she , like her father , or perhaps partly for his sake , had always been a prime favorite , her former relations were easily resumed ; their eager petition , `` Ride with us , Angie -- ride with us ? '' 
or their contentions for the place next her either in pew or wagon , were too coaxing to be resisted . 
was -LRB- the opening remark from the latter `` Yes ; but she looked real dragged out . '' 
`` And no wonder ; I think they 've imposed upon her up at Beck 's . 
She 's most killed herself nussin ' that baby . '' 
`` Law , she did n't seem to think it any hardship . 
She happened in there sort of by accident , just as the baby was taken bad with the snuffles . 
`` And left poor Angie to do all the tendin ' o ' that sick child ? '' 
She tended him handy-like , you see ; there 's nobody like her with chil ` ern . 
As for our Susin , -- wal , p ` raps , I ought not to say so , but she 's about the shiftlessest piece ever I did see . '' 
`` So Angie was the only one that could quiet that dyin ' child ! 
I declare , she 's jest like her dear old father . 
`` Why , '' said Miss Briny , `` you ought to have seen that little feller and her the night afore he died . 
It was a real touching sight , the way she 'd walk up and down with him by the hour , and he no light weight either ; and when he got kind of quiet , and she laid him on the bed , she could n't move an inch from him but he 'd scream out . 
Why , ' t wa n't half an hour afore he drew his last breath that Miss Beck see him a smilin ' at Angie and a twistin ' one of her curls round his little fat fingers . 
`` An ' she fixed him for the grave an ' all , so I 've heerd ! '' 
She did n't want any help she said . 
She washed and dressed him , and curled his hair as purty as could be ` fore his mother saw him again ; an ' he did look like a picter , for he wa n't wasted a mite . '' 
`` I do n't know what would ha ' become o ' poor Mis ' Stein if it had n't been for Angie , '' remarked Briny . 
`` 'T was winter time , you know , when she was taken down with her last sickness , and there was nobody to do a thing to make her comfortable . 
Stein had no more consideration for her than for an old churn that was past use . 
`` Wal , Angie was like a darter to her , '' resumed Miss Briny . 
`` She wa n't under any obligations in that quarter , and they say Hannah called her all the fools in the world for slavin ' herself over Mis ' Stein , when if Stein had n't been such a wretch of a miser he might ha ' hired somebody to nuss his wife . '' 
Angie used to watch there nights , to my certain knowledge , when she could hardly keep herself from freezin ' , and then used to run home in the mornin ' , and make some broth or cook up some little thing or other for Mis ' Stein 's breakfast . 
Stein never even thanked her , but she had the dyin ' woman 's blessin ' , if that 's any comfort , and the good word o ' the whole neighborhood . 
Angie 's face and figur ' may , as you say , be shadders of what the Lord meant 'em fur , but they 're kind o ' softened shadders to my thinkin ' , like things you see in the moonlight ; sorrer and sufferin ' have warred against the flesh , but they 've made on her a ministerin ' spirit , -- an ' that last 's a blessin ' to humanity , and no disappintment to the Lord , I reckon . '' 
That then was the calling to which Angie was called , and in its fulfilment , so far as she was faithful , she had already acquired a new popularity . 
They came only at wide intervals ; but the spirit of her life was nevertheless one of sympathy , and unconsciously made itself felt . 
Angie had been social by nature ; like her father , but experience now had let her down into the heart of things , and what others only knew of , she could feel . 
So henceforth her look , her voice , the touch of her helping hand , were not like the look , the voice , the touch of the uninitiated . 
God had poured on her the ordaining oil , and henceforth sorrow claimed her as its priest . 
It was long before she knew her office ; longer still before she gave herself to its fulfilment . 
The tear of pity was the first softening dew-drop to her rebel heart ; the friendliness , which afterwards flowed from the same source in a wider stream , evoked gentle emotions that had seemed crushed and dead ; kindness directed their growth and culture , and God 's love at last revivified the soul , which , buried in the deep grave of all its earthly hopes , had found therein a well of water , and was springing up into everlasting life . 
A little while ago , when Angie replenished the fire with damp wood , it met the smoke in the chimney , fought a battle with it , and drove it back in a cloud into her face . 
Twice it has blown the house door open , compelling her to bar it at last , and revealing , triumphantly , at the same time the great drifts of snow which it has heaped up against that side of the house , and which it threatens to heap up higher , for the snow is falling still . 
Each of the old women has her straight-backed chair , drawn to the accustomed side of the fireplace . 
Margery , more wasted and bent than ever , cowers down in her corner , listens tremblingly to the storm , glances timorously at her sister-in-law during the continuance of the blasts , and at every lull in the tempest suffers her eyes to rest upon Angie -LRB- who has drawn a low chair close beside her -RRB- , with that pleading , trusting look , which dumb animals bestow on their protectors . 
It is so instinctive with Angie to take her seat on Margery 's side of the fireplace , and on wintry nights like this to draw a little nearer yet to Geordie 's mother , she is so accustomed to feel herself the object of that appealing gaze , and has understood it so long and so well , that there being nothing new in her relations to Margery , and Hannah being asleep , she is as much lost and abstracted from her present surroundings as if quite unobserved and alone . 
Youth is beautiful , and Angie 's first flush of youth is past ; health is beautiful , and lately Angie 's frame , though still capable of much endurance , had shown signs of languor and debility ; happiness is beautiful , and Angie is not happy , -- patient and peaceful , but that is all . 
Angie 's beauty , too , had been preëminently of that order which is enhanced by , if not dependent on , good spirits , arch expressions , playful ways . 
Her features were never regular ; there was nothing mechanical in her smile ; none of her graces were of the statuesque type . 
Nature made her one of those jewels which has intrinsic lustre , but needs animation , motion , light to give it radiance ; she was not a pearl , which is best set off against a dark background . 
She was exactly calculated to play a brilliant part in society ; she would never make an artist 's saint , or a model nun . 
She is certainly out of her element , and Nature has a right to be disappointed in her , if not Heaven . 
I have shown a few of the ways in which Angie 's selfconquest made itself felt in her little sphere ; but look at her , as she sits in the fire-light , and what do you see ? 
Dear me , can that be Angie ? 
Why , I do n't believe I should have known her ! '' 
It is Angie , and the plain livery she wears is the badge by which you may often recognize them that have overcome . 
How calm she looks ! 
Whatever visions she sees in the embers now , they have no power to disturb her peace ; her face wears a sad expression , but her attitude is full of repose . 
She is not so calm as she seems , however . 
This composed attitude has become habitual with her ; and the visions , painful as they may be , are too familiar to startle her with their presence ; but her nerves are far from sound , for a stamping of feet outside the door , and a hand laid on the latch , cause her to give a convulsive start , not because the step and touch are strange , for , though unexpected , she knows them well ; but , perhaps , because the coming visitor is painfully associated with the subject of her meditation ; possibly because he is unwelcome to her at all times , or perchance merely on account of the sudden turn given to her thoughts . 
But the shock is for an instant only ; then she rises composedly to take down the bar and admit the visitor . 
cries Hannah , whose dull ears have echoed just enough sound to cause her to awaken from her nap , with a more perceptible start than Angie 's . 
Angie placed a chair in front of the fire for him . 
he muttered , abbreviating the customary salutation of society to the last degree , to save words , and , as usual , taking no notice whatever of Angie , who , accustomed to be thus overlooked by him , resumed her low chair with the meekness of one who is content to be despised . 
-- and Angie a creature wholly ignored , Van Hausen 's conversation with them usually consisted of a few commonplaces , uttered at intervals , and the long pauses between were neither felt to be oppressive nor ominous . 
Margery 's hand clutched Angie 's gown as with a death clutch ; but these two victims were otherwise still , and attracted no attention . 
`` Come here , Angie , and tell me what he says . '' 
Angie somehow tottered to her feet in obedience to this summons . 
Her clear voice was often Hannah 's eartrumpet . 
Angie dared not remonstrate with the trembling Margery . 
She was compelled to unwrench the withered hand , hastily and by force . 
The hand thus unloosed from its stronghold clasped its mate with an expression of despair , while anxious eyes followed Angie as if imploring her not to league herself with the betrayers . 
But she must play her part , however hard ; must report faithfully to Hannah every word of Van Hausen 's , though every word were a thunderbolt . 
The above information , for her benefit , was elicited , not in any connected form , but in detached phrases , uttered in successive jerks by Van Hausen , and communicated by Angie as by an echo ; -- a thing not supposed by its auditors to hear , think , or understand ; an unconscious reporter merely . 
Only Margery wondered at Angie . 
But Angie 's voice , like Nature 's , was simply obedient to law . 
What the obedience cost her no one but herself ever knew . 
Angie shuddered as she saw her thus gird herself for the onset . 
`` I shall start afore sunrise , '' was his answer , transmitted through Angie . 
Go she would , -- go before sunrise , in her brother 's pung and in spite of the weather , and she closed the catalogue of her plans with the words , `` Angie will go with me . '' 
Angie had stooped to pick up a brand from the hearth , which she let fall at this . 
A look of agony overspread her face , and she cried out , like one in terror , `` Not me ? 
Angie , to hide the action , suffered herself to be drawn to Margery 's side of the fireplace , and beneath the folds of her dress patted the withered hand in a soothing , caressing manner , as one pats a child . 
Angie , still patting the hand , seemed to say , `` There ! 
`` Wal , Han , '' screamed Dick , who , paying no attention to the question concerning Angie , -- taking a rude pleasure , perhaps , in interrupting it , -- had risen to go . 
Angie would gladly have sat up until morning . 
She had to make ready for an early breakfast , bring out her own and Hannah 's best , warm clothes for the journey , and hunt up bricks to heat in the ashes over night , to put into the bottom of the sleigh as a protection against frozen feet . 
She would gladly have made a pretence of business enough to occupy her until daylight , if it were only to keep near Margery , and now and then , on every trifling pretext , creep into the bed-room and secretly pat the hand that was seeking hers always . 
But the moment every thing absolutely necessary was done , Hannah ordered Angie off to bed , where she lay quaking , shivering , moaning , -- not with the cold , though her windowpanes were coated with ice , her breath frozen on the sheet , the wind coming in at many a crack , -- but because her tears , her prayers , the faith which had supported her through many a strait , -- nothing could save her now from a mortal dread of the morrow . 
It was no other than these last , for Van Hausen , Hannah Rawle , and Angie were already on their way to New York . 
Angie , clad in the close-fitting mandarin , and the little pink hood -LRB- faded pink it was now -RRB- , looked like a child beside her Amazonian companion . 
She shivered perceptibly ; her face wore the expression of one who is dragged forward against her will ; she had withdrawn instinctively from Hannah 's vicinity to the extremity of the plank which constituted the back seat of the pung , and , leaning over the side of the vehicle , watched the runner cut its track in the snow with as intense a gaze as if they were voyaging on the surface of a frozen sea , in which they might at any moment sink . 
This was better , perhaps , than utter exposure to the blast that swept across the bay ; but Hannah did not think it any inducement , as she said , for `` bundlin ' out an ' in agin ; '' so she and Angie kept their seats , and got chilled to the last degree short of freezing , while Van Hausen walked up and down in a contracted space , and thrashed his arms across his chest , by way of keeping up the circulation . 
Angie shrank from the city crowd , that aggregate of humanity , -- the world . 
The neighborhood of Stein 's Plains constituted the immediate orbit of her life ; but there was an outside world beyond that ; a wider sphere , a vaster public , destined to ring with the history of a great crime come to light . 
These faces , upturned in curiosity as she passed , were already questioning the inmates of the blue pung as to their errand hither ; these eager ears were awaiting the startling revelations of to-day ; these tongues seemed freshly sharpened for the universal hiss ; this sea of human faces was a sea just about to be lashed into fury by the tempest ; Angie felt herself launched upon it , and shuddered . 
If Angie shook with dread , Hannah shook no less with the cold . 
After all , Angie , trembling though she was , had to support the old woman as she tottered from the vehicle , and followed Van Hausen through the entrance gate and up the steps leading to an iron-barred door , at which he had already knocked loudly . 
The granite surface of the building , the grated window-frames from which icicles hung in pendants ; the hollow reverberation of Van Hausen 's knock as it went echoing through the stone corridors , all the sights and sounds which serve to make up the grim uniformity of a prison , acted upon Angie 's senses with scarcely less of chill and horror than if she were a criminal under sentence for life . 
This was the spot to which human society banished its lost and degraded members ; it was one of the instruments of its retaliation against crime ; it was the giant coadjutor of Angie 's companions in the business on which they had come . 
It almost annihilated poor Angie with its voice and frown . 
There was no fireplace , and the only seat which the room afforded was a wooden bench , on which Hannah suffered herself to be placed , Angie standing beside her , while Van Hausen unclasped the fastening of his cloak , raised his seal-skin cap from his forehead , set his whip up against the wall , and then looked about him . 
said the constable , addressing Hannah doubtless , but eying Angie . 
Angie answered for both , -- `` Very cold , sir . '' 
I 'll speak a good word for you , mum , '' and `` mum '' this time meant Angie herself . 
Her troubled face had conciliated this man , perhaps , or her modest manner , or some remnant of her beauty not quite overcast by pain . 
`` I 'll do the best I can for you , ma'am , if you 'll come with me , '' said the jailer , accosting Angie , in default of hearing on Hannah 's part , just as the constable had done . 
Angie signified to Hannah that they were to follow this individual . 
The old woman rose with effort , and moving as if on stilts , so numb and stiffened had her limbs become , tottered away , leaning heavily on Angie 's shoulder . 
`` You 're all right now , miss , '' whispered the constable , in his patronizing way , to Angie , as he was bowing them out of the room . 
Angie thanked him humbly for the assurance , adding that they should be very glad to go where there was a fire . 
Angie shuddered and shook her head . 
`` Perhaps she will , '' replied Angie , hesitatingly , and turning her face away so as to avoid as much as possible the keen eye of the detective . 
Good morning , miss , '' and hurrying to overtake Van Hausen , for whom Tracy was unbarring the front entrance , he accompanied him out of the building , while Hannah and Angie followed the lead of the jailer in the opposite direction . 
The walls were of rough plaster ; a plan of the prison was the only thing that relieved their bareness ; a plank-floor well sanded ; a high desk and three-legged stool ; a shallow box , filled with ashes , beneath the desk , intended , and evidently much used , as a spittoon ; a few rush-bottomed chairs , painted red ; and in the darkest corner a wide settle , on which an old rug , a horse-blanket , and some articles of coarse clothing , including a greasy hat , seemed to be carelessly huddled together , -- these things completed the picture of the room into which Hannah Rawle and Angie were ushered by special privilege and favor . 
She probably feared some such result herself , for her lips were agape with agitation , her breath came quick and short , and her eye was turned upon Angie with an expression of alarm . 
Angie started to her assistance . 
The former loosened the strings of her silk bag , -- the indispensable of those days , -- and produced a vial containing spirits of camphor , which she uncorked and applied to Hannah 's nostrils . 
`` If I only had some hot water to mix with it , I 'd give her a little of this to drink , '' cried Angie . 
A dose of diluted spirits of camphor , which Angie then administered , proved so efficacious that the tremor soon began to subside , the blue lips of the patient resumed their natural color , she became composed and breathed easily . 
she said imperatively to Angie , as soon as she could recover her speech . 
she added , with irritation , seeing that Angie , who had been supporting her head , still stood watching her progress towards recovery . 
Angie obeyed . 
After a while be gathered up the papers he had been examining and went out , pausing at the door an instant to inspect the room with a jailer 's eye , and see if all was right , especially the obscure corner where the settle was , which he peered into so scrutinizingly before satisfying himself of the safety of every thing , that the action attracted Angie 's attention , and after he had gone her eyes unconsciously continued to rest upon the dark pile of rags and clothing which was heaped up there . 
The jailer 's step had hardly ceased to echo through the long stone corridors when Angie was startled by a low , moaning sound , a sort of suppressed groan proceeding from the dim corner into which she was gazing . 
Angie held her breath and listened ; her eyes were strained and intent upon the movement . 
It almost seemed to her that she must be dreaming , and that the moan of pain and despair which she heard was an utterance wrung from her own aching heart . 
Any self-delusion on this subject , however , was but momentary , for almost before she could indulge in a conjecture concerning what had just met her eye and ear , a figure hitherto stretched out on the settle and asleep started into a sitting posture , with such spasmodic velocity and force , that Angie , as if actuated by an electric shock , sprang to her feet at the same instant . 
Angie , frightened no less by the ghostly voice than by the spectral object which she beheld opposite to her , stood still and made no reply . 
cried the sepulchral voice , and at the same time a great gaunt hand clutched eagerly at the air in the direction of Angie . 
The gesture was so threatening , the dread that this ghostly figure would rise and make a spring at her , so overmastered any lesser fear that Angie crept a little nearer . 
At the same time she gave a timid glance at Hannah , who , deaf and drowsing -LRB- for the camphor was exercising a soothing influence upon her -RRB- , saw and heard nothing . 
Even at this present crisis the fear of Hannah was instinctively uppermost with Angie . 
`` Hush , '' she said , in a persuasive tone , as she approached the fresh object of dread so unexpectedly revealed to her . 
Before Angie , creeping cautiously forward , had reached the settle , the figure , exhausted and faint , had fallen back like a dead weight and lay mute and rigid . 
Angie , breathing more freely as the form before her thus became powerless for harm , stood and gazed upon it . 
Add to this the unusual size of his frame , now a skeleton , trying every where , as it seemed , to force itself through the skin , the coarse clothes that , too large for his wasted body , were carelessly put on and hung loosely about him , the shirt gaping wide , and in the absence of every species of neckcloth , revealing a grisly throat and chest with sharp protruding breast-bone , the hair and beard of a satyr , and behind them the face of a ghost , an eye so sunken and hollow as to be almost lost , and yet burning with the fire of unquenchable violence and lust , -- and was it strange that Angie 's first sensation , when she saw him fall back lifeless was one of deliverance and relief ? 
-- that , unable to summon help against this wretch 's possible violence , she found her own strength in his weakness ? 
As he lay with his eyes closed , his consciousness gone , his form , just now writhing with excitement and vehemence , reduced to more than infant feebleness , all the woman in Angie was stirred ; the wretch of the last moment was the victim of this ; her terror was changed to pity ; he needed her ; not to help herself but him , was now her first impulse , and she applied herself to the task , not without an inward shrinking , but with no less zeal than she had employed a few moments before for Hannah 's restoration . 
murmured Angie , with thankfulness . 
she added pitifully , putting one hand beneath his head and raising him a little , while with the other she diligently bathed his forehead with camphor . 
She was thus occupied , thus murmuring , when he opened his eyes and looked at her . 
So Angie kept on with her task , undismayed by the eye fastened full upon her ; she even smiled upon her patient with a gentle smile of congratulation and encouragement , at which he only wondered the more . 
she presently asked , seeing how eagerly he began to snuff the medicated spirits , and remembering that this was what he had smelt and been seized with a longing for on first awaking . 
Angie once more poured from her vial into the tin mug , and diluted the spirits from the porringer -- very weak she made the dose this time . 
She stepped stealthily to the fireplace and back again so as not to disturb Hannah , who was by this time deep in her nap , sitting bolt upright , as was her practice , we know , at home . 
was Angie 's next kind inquiry , as the sick man after drinking gluttonously , handed back the mug to her , at the same time smacking his lips and licking up the drops that clung to his beard . 
He answered only by stretching out his hand and feeling of hers , reverently , as if to test whether her touch was really any thing human . 
said Angie , trying not to shrink from the bony fingers with their great out-grown joints . 
`` Let me bathe it , '' she added , partly out of compassion , still more , perhaps , as a ruse to escape the repulsive ordeal of his touch ; and stretching the hand on the rug which served for a coverlet , she moistened a handkerchief already devoted to the cause , and bathed the dry skeleton thing sedulously for a moment or two . 
Angie understood ; said , `` Yes , indeed ! '' 
She had scarcely made a pass across it with the handkerchief , however , when she stopped short , -- something had happened to her , -- she could not proceed . 
No , it was not that alone ; but , as the finding of the first link in a lost chain is the finding of all the rest , so Angie , seeing this , saw more . 
So with Angie ; to recognize this token was to pause , to question herself , to be convinced , and all in one second of time . 
Almost before she could drop the hand and scan the face , she knew what misery , disease , and decay had only veiled . 
Light now had come in like a flash and revealed to her Nicholas Bly . 
She had half expected to see this very man before the day was over . 
She had looked to find him in the criminal prepared to testify . 
She had imagined how , when the lawyers came , this well-remembered villain would come too , -- a great , bloated , swaggering , swearing villain ; but to find him thus , was a discovery as startling as if she had encountered what he indeed looked to be -- his own ghost ; and more to be dreaded , for real ghosts are phantoms , this seeming ghost was real . 
And what a task was that which she had set herself ! 
Could she continue it ? 
At first her whole soul revolted at the thought ; then came a reaction . 
Were not hands that she had clasped in love , that her secret heart clasped still , as blood-stained in their grave , perhaps ? 
And , the struggle past , she bathed on more assiduously than before , not without wondering , with a cold shudder , as she strove to cleanse those accursed hands , if it was blood that had shrunk and withered them so . 
The shock had been so momentary , the hesitation whether to resume her task or retreat dismayed had been so well mastered , that it did not occur to her that she had done any thing to attract attention or excite alarm . 
But there must have been something on her part , either in action or look , that was abrupt and significant . 
The magnetism with which she had hitherto charmed her patient into repose was broken ; the acute sensibilities of disease were irritated . 
Without giving her a chance to regain the monotonous motion which had proved so soothing , this fevered man -LRB- no longer a trusting child -- she had startled and banished the child -RRB- snatched his hands from her , raised himself on his couch in the same vehement manner as on his first awakening , and cried out in that husky whisper which gave a mysterious horror to his slightest word , `` Who are yer ? 
Involuntarily Angie retreated a step , upon which the man , naturally brutal , and seeing her courage yield , tried to grasp her arm , and would have become fierce and clamorous in his speech , but there was no tenacity to his limp muscles , and his words resolved themselves into a gurgle . 
His hand fell as if paralyzed , and he could only question her with his eyes . 
Seeing this , Angie resumed her sway . 
`` Be quiet , '' she said , in a tone none the less commanding that it was very low ; `` I will tell you nothing until you lie down and are quiet . 
A wild , incredulous stare now fastened itself upon her . 
Though inwardly trembling under his gaze , she suffered it a while ; then , having assured herself that he was completely subdued , and perceiving that the racking of his memory was costing him fruitless efforts , she said , in the low , firm tone which evidently impressed him powerfully , `` I know you , Nicholas Bly , and you will know me when I tell you who I am , and how I came here . 
He would have started up in surprise at this , but she held him down ; it did not require much strength . 
`` I know I am changed , '' said she ; `` misery changes us all ; but you saw me the night of the Christmas ball . 
While she spoke , he was scanning her features -- a process which , beginning in doubt , ended in conviction , the latter asserting itself , the moment she paused , in the words , whispered hoarsely , as if to himself , `` It 's the very gal ! '' 
`` Do n't swear , '' cried Angie , imploringly ; `` do n't speak such a word as that again . '' 
He grinned in a ghastly fashion , but was awed , nevertheless , by a request so strange , and -- what would have seemed miraculous to any old comrade of his -- he gave vent to his blasphemy but once again during his further dialogue with her . 
he asked , abruptly , after a moment , and looked anxiously at her , awaiting her answer . 
`` You 're a -- '' he was about to preface his noun of compliment by a string of most profane adjectives , but her look checked him at the first syllable -- `` You 're a -- a -- angel ! '' 
he brought out with difficulty , and an apparent consciousness that the word was a tame one to express his appreciation of her . 
was her impulsive ejaculation . 
`` I loved him , '' said Angie . 
He barely restrained himself this time from an oath in confirmation of the truth which her heaving breast and trembling lips revealed . 
Angie was silent ; this was a question that required no other answer than her sobs . 
`` He wa n't wuth it , '' soliloquized Nick , looking at her with mingled admiration and pity , both ennobling sentiments , almost unknown before in this bad man 's breast . 
Angie made haste to control herself . 
Pride came to her aid . 
She must not lose her self-control in such a presence . 
`` Any how , '' continued Nick , who had spent the time she occupied in rallying , in mental calculation , and who addressed her the moment she looked up , `` you saved my neck from swingin ' fur nigh on ter half a dozen year ; I thank yer fur that ; it do n't matter to me how it came about , so 's I was the gainer . 
Angie waited until the groan was past , and until he had ceased to writhe under the paroxysm . 
she then vehemently exclaimed , -- `` no , never , nor youeither ; -- whatever else you tell , you mustnot , you shallnot , betray him ! '' 
was the defiant retort , spirted at her from between teeth clinched with agony . 
She took advantage of the acknowledgment he had just made . 
She had no real claim on that score , but she was desperate . 
`` I have kept yoursecret all these years , '' she said , in a tone of appeal ; `` now you must keep mine ! '' 
He parted his teeth only to grin scornfully at her . 
`` I know it ; I know it , '' she replied , as vehement in her candor as in her expostulation . 
`` You will get nothing by betraying him , '' responded Angie , confidently . 
she cried , raising both hands before her face to shut out the malignant expression , which frowned on her like a gathering tempest . 
and he snatched her hands before she could repel him , and with a force for which she was unprepared , and holding them a moment , compelled her to face the torrent of rage which her words had excited . 
At the same time Angie released herself , by a sudden effort , from a grasp which she felt to be more than ever contagious of evil . 
she cried , in the tone of one suffering torture already . 
`` Angie , where are you ? 
`` Sure as I am of my own life , '' was Angie 's low , solemn answer to the first question . 
It 's only a sick man , '' was her response to Hannah , uttered in a louder key . 
`` The old woman I came with , '' said Angie , in a soothing tone ; `` only the old woman . '' 
gasped Bly , in a whisper ; and catching Angie by the shoulder , he forcibly detained her . 
she shouted , by way of appeasing Hannah -- at the same time that she answered Bly by an affirmative gesture . 
soliloquized Bly , still holding Angie fast , as if she were a hostage . 
Mrs. Rawle is calling me ; she will be angry , '' pleaded Angie , struggling to release herself . 
Angie , standing just between her and the bedside , again nodded in the affirmative . 
was Angie 's prompt assurance to Bly ; at the same time interposing between him and Hannah , she thrust her back , with the words , `` Do n't come too near ; he 's afraid of you ! '' 
cried Angie , putting her mouth to Hannah 's ear ; `` you startled him . 
and she made a movement to push past Angie , and obtain a nearer survey of the strange object curled up in the corner . 
reiterated Bly , with frantic gestures : for her resistance to Angie , confirmed him in the notion that she was approaching with threatening intent . 
Again Angie assured him of his safety , but the poor wretch , helpless and conscience-stricken , was palpitating in every limb , so terrible was his dread of Hannah 's vengeance . 
and he shook his fist furiously at Angie , who had , as he believed , suffered Hannah to remain in ambush , and so to master his secret . 
cried Angie , in that tone which is a plain rebuke . 
Angie supplanted her at the head of the couch , and had recourse to the camphor bottle . 
`` He 's been just so once before , '' replied Angie , speaking loudly . 
Her ears had not caught the burden of his expressions of alarm . 
His husky language was unintelligible to her , else her suspicions would have been aroused concerning him . 
As it was , she only realized that she was some how repulsive to the man , and she felt that sort of ill humor against him which invalids and children naturally excite when they manifest arbitrary dislikes . 
So she sat down with her back obstinately turned on the offenders -LRB- she felt proportionately provoked with Angie , of course -RRB- . 
This was well ; Angie improved her opportunity , and soon succeeded in first restoring , then calming , her patient . 
She made haste to soothe him with the words , `` She 's gone -- gone back to her chair by the fire . '' 
Angie continued , in a soft , comforting tone , `` She 's deaf , she has not heard a word ; she does not suspect who you are . 
Bly looked up at her gratefully , confidingly . 
As she finished speaking he sought her hand , as children seek a hand when their feet totter in some perilous place . 
She granted him this pledge of protection , and knew , as she did so , that her power over him -- Virtue 's power over vice -- was culminating . 
`` She came from Stein 's Plains to-day , '' said Angie , pointing towards Hannah , `` to hear your confession . 
She was in hopes to learn who was guilty of -- '' Here Angie faltered . 
He did not shrink from the word as much as she did . 
`` Yes , -- but you will not tell now , '' continued Angie , with energy . 
He was studying her face with a strange , searching look . 
He had withdrawn his hand the moment she began thus to plead . 
The subject estranged him from her , but his features did not now wear a vindictive expression . 
He was attentive to her words , and she went on . 
`` If he were alive , and rich , and respected , as you were thinking , then it would be different , '' she argued . 
But to betray his share in the crime would do no harm to him now , for he is dead ; it would do you no good , for , '' -- she could not add , -- `` for you are dying , '' though that was her thought . 
Perhaps he read her thought ; perhaps he only expressed his own ; at any rate , he rounded the assertion for her with a groan , and the words , `` There ai n't enough o ' me left to ballast a rope 's end -- that 's a fact . '' 
she exclaimed . 
she continued , in an outburst of hope and fervor , for she saw how she had subdued him once more to almost infantile docility , and she caught at the chance thus afforded her . 
The sound of a footstep just at the threshold of the door startled her in the midst of her supplication . 
Instinctively , like one tampering with crime , and fearing to be caught in the act , she darted away from the vicinity of Bly , and with her face to the opposite wall , fixed her eyes vacantly on the plan of the prison which hung there . 
He cast his eye all round the room ; Hannah sat staring straight into the fire ; Angie was studying prison architecture ; Bly still lay , a motionless heap , upon the settle . 
they are coming , '' cried Angie , as the door closed upon Tracy ; and turning , she sprang again to the sick man 's side . 
-- and flinging herself on her knees and wringing her hands convulsively , she would have poured forth further entreaties , but her voice failed her , and they were all merged in one explosive sob , in which the pent-up agony of years seemed to vent itself . 
But sunk and imbruted as it was , there was one power never before tried upon it , -- the power of a holy love ; and that sob of Angie 's reached it , even in its grave . 
The spark thus kindled revealed itself in a softer light , which gleamed from his eye , and rested on her with something like compassion . 
Startled by the sound of that involuntary sob of hers , Angie had turned her ear with a spasmodic start , in the direction of the approaching footsteps , one eye meanwhile scanning the figure of Hannah , who fortunately continued obstinately unobservant . 
There was no time , indeed , for words ; a hand was already on the door-lock ; Angie had barely an opportunity to glide into her chair opposite Hannah , Bly to resume his sleeping attitude ; but as she retreated , with her finger on her lip , there was a solemn query in her gesture which was responded to by an emphatic dropping of the eyelids on the part of Bly that seemed to promise a secrecy as eternal as the night . 
cried the prisoner , raising himself on his elbow with the same suddenness and velocity which had startled Angie , and which , together with the roar of his sepulchral voice , caused the lawyer to reel back in his chair . 
Angie neither noticed nor obeyed , but her abstraction was covered by the more marked obduracy of Hannah , who , puzzled and indignant at a series of proceedings which she had not been able in the least to comprehend , positively refused to budge , jerking herself free from Van Hausen , who , finding his gestures unavailing , had proceeded to give a more emphatic hint by twitching at her cloak , and avowing her intention of remaining until they were ready to take the evidence , if it were until to-morrow morning . 
Angie followed mechanically . 
Angie had a consciousness amounting to certainty , -- that consciousness which comes by faith not by sight , -- that Bly was looking back in the hope to win a glance , a grateful glance , perhaps , from her . 
But she dared not meet his eye . 
She felt that she should betray herself . 
So , with a fixed gaze and a self-reproachful heart for this too , she turned her back upon the poor wretch , who , faithful but unthanked even by a look , was carried to his cell , while she , free and uncondemned , but scarcely less a culprit in her own estimation , went her way unchallenged . 
This problem was rendered more difficult of solution from Hannah 's vituperative state of mind , and the vacant , terrified expression of Angie 's face . 
Dick had ordinarily more confidence in Angie 's ability and discretion than his manner to her implied ; but now , as he said to himself , she looked and behaved like a cat in a strange garret , and she and the old woman seemed equally unfitted to take care of themselves or each other . 
Hannah , who had stopped short in the stone corridor between the rows of cells , was still shaking her head and her forefinger in attestation of her plainly-expressed opinion regarding the folly of all who had lured her hither `` on such a fool 's arrant ; '' Van Hausen , considerably in advance , and impatiently lingering until she and Angie should come up , was apparently taking counsel of his whip-handle , the end of which he rubbed slowly up and down his chin , when the constable , returning from doing escort duty to Bly , came back through the jailer 's room , and overtook our party in the long passage-way . 
Altogether his presence imparted life and spirit to the grim old prison corridor ; and there was something very cordial as well as patronizing in the way with which he broke off in his tune to say to Angie , as he passed , `` Sorry for the old woman 's disappintment , miss , an ' yourn ; that ` ere testimony turned out a plaguy sham -- that 's a fact . 
`` Howsomever , I 'll look out for you in the court-room , '' he condescendingly whispered to Angie . 
A few individuals , hastening along the street outside , constituted that portion of the crowd which he motioned to Hannah to follow ; and pressing as his business was , he could not resist pausing an instant to indulge one more hearty laugh at sight of the old woman striding vigorously forward , in the effort to keep up with her leaders , and dragging the trembling , reluctant Angie along , rather than leaning on her for support . 
Angie was just behind her , one step lower down , panting and breathless , less from her rapid walk and struggle with the press than from the agitations of her heart and brain . 
Every body but Hannah stood staring and agape , watching his passage ; but she , blind to every thing but her own interest in getting forward , pressed into his wake , and Angie following , both were wafted into the inner hall , not far from the entrance to the court-room . 
Hannah and Angie were driven back almost on the shoulders of the crowd , wafted , as it were , by an ebb tide ; but the human waves that had forced for themselves an exit , soon returned , angry and clamorous , to swell the onward flow . 
Hannah and Angie , victims of this contention , were in danger of being smothered , strangled , annihilated . 
But Angie was a clog upon her . 
Angie , exhausted and faint , was frightened , bewildered , and so , of course , undone . 
Staggering , falling , trampled on at last , the right and left thrusts of her companion alone saved her from serious injury . 
Certain it is , however , that this extremity turned the scale of fortune suddenly in favor of our couple of adventurers , for a constable , the constable who had just been giving information to the crowd , the very constable of the prison , Hannah 's champion and Angie 's admirer , came at this moment to the rescue , took the unfortunates in charge , waived off the crowd by the magic of his badge of authority , and before they knew how or whence deliverance had come , they had found the sesame to the mysterious green door by which the judge had disappeared , and were in a dark , damp lobby , with plenty of breathing room , and the roar and rush of the crowd without sounding through the muffled door like the surge and murmur of an angry sea , from which they had been saved by a miracle . 
The cheering admonitions and encouragement of their rescuer , together with the wholesome scolding administered by Hannah , soon restored Angie to presence of mind , and enabled her to suppress the hysterical throes and nervous tremor which , for some moments , threatened to master her . 
Though bruised and panting , nearly strangled by the strings of her hood , and with her old silk mandarin rent in several places , she had escaped further injury , and in reply to the interrogations of the constable and the pertinacity of Hannah , soon declared herself able to proceed . 
`` Do n't you be afeard , miss , '' was the constable 's prompt reply to these instinctive thrills of alarm on Angie 's part . 
I know all about crowds , I do ; I 'll take care of you -LRB- in his patronizing way -RRB- ; come with me ; '' and motioning to Hannah to follow , he commenced piloting Angie along the dark lobby , and thence up a winding staircase , which branched off in an opposite direction to the private entrance by which the judge had gained access to the court-room . 
Angie , thankful just now for shelter and safety , and anxious to avoid observation , would gladly have taken a standing position just inside the entrance door , and on the outskirts of the gallery . 
`` You see , miss , '' he whispered to Angie , `` I 've brought you to the court-end , and now I 'm going to get the young woman that I admire , and the old woman that I respect , the best seats here . '' 
as he beckoned Hannah and the reluctant Angie on , -- `` one , two , three , four , five , '' and , as he counted , his inexorable finger marked off the occupants of the front seat , -- `` room for six , ladies ; them seats always accommodates six ! 
Meanwhile the occupants of neighboring seats , undisturbed in their possessions , stared unmercifully at Hannah and Angie as `` persons interested in the trial . '' 
So the whisper went round , -- round even to the ears of Angie , who , having followed Hannah to the front , where no seat was yet provided for her , was left at this moment standing , the most conspicuous person in the house . 
Angie would have retreated if she could , but those behind had reseated themselves and hemmed her in ; the constable had gone to fetch a camp-stool ; he had whispered this intention to her , and then disappeared , with the parting assurance , `` I 'll have to hand it down to you over the heads of the crowd ; but never fear , I 'll make sure that you get it . '' 
While awaiting its arrival , however , there was nothing for Angie but to stand , crimson with fear and embarrassment , more prominent than the prisoners in the dock , and a scarcely less pitiable object . 
She had drawn her hood , as far as possible , over her face ; she had tucked behind and under it , as well as she could , her stray , curling locks , for the comb that should have held them had dropped out and been lost in the crowd . 
With womanly instinct she had brushed the dust from her scant mandarin , and attempted to fold it so as to hide the rents ; but nothing could soothe or hide her features , distorted by mortification and alarm . 
The emotions already alluded to would have been sufficient to account for such an expression , but within a moment past it had been aggravated by a more fearful sensation ; for she had just had a vision , -- had met a phantom in her path ; pale , emaciated , wild , it had fixed her with its stare ; it had vanished , but it transfixed her still . 
Her own humiliating position , the murmur of suspicion that attached to her as one interested in the trial , the watchful , accusing eyes , -- she was conscious of them all ; but what kept her planted there , so still and horror-struck , was , more than all , the certainty that , for the second time to-day , she had seen , overtopping all other faces , blinding her to all others , the face of a ghost . 
But now a soul in purgatory , a blasted spirit , looked out from that same tenement of clay , with which Angie had long ago been familiar . 
Were all the visions that had haunted her heart for years to become realities to-day ? 
One by one were the secret companions of her memory to rise up and confront her in the face of all the world ? 
A little while ago , and she had triumphed in the consciousness of having disarmed fate . 
In the agitation of the present moment she felt it closing in upon her , and , no longer resisting , she braced herself to meet the shock . 
No wonder that when the camp-stool came , at last , and by the constable 's peremptory orders , was passed down to her , she failed to see it ; that when it was pointed out , and even set up for her use close beside Hannah , she took no notice ; and that , embarrassing as her situation was , she would have continued standing for an indefinite period , scrutinizing the sea of faces above her with an expectant gaze , had not Hannah given her a smart jerk , at the same time saying in a loud , shrill key , which made every body laugh , `` Setdown , Angie Cousin ! 
Angie 's attention was at once concentrated upon the wiry figure and keen nervous features of the lawyer , who , as he stood with both hands resting by the finger-tips on the green table round which his legal brethren were grouped , was , from her immediate recognition of his person , and from the attitude he occupied , of one about to address the court , the single object that arrested her eye . 
Hannah recognized him too , and signified the fact by a shove of Angie 's elbow , and the words , `` I vum , Angie , that ` ere 's the same little red-faced man that we jest see so fooled in the jail yonder . '' 
A few of her neighbors overheard it , however , and thereupon scanned her and Angie with increased curiosity and remark . 
Angie , who up to this moment had sat aghast , with lips parted and ears strained , drew a long breath . 
They were resolved to wring the truth from Bly , after all ; to force open his lips at last , and blast her with the chance-droppings therefrom , -- this much of the attorney 's purpose she had comprehended in spite of legal forms , -- but the attempt had failed ; it was ruled otherwise ; the judge had determined -LRB- bless him ! -RRB- 
to leave the poor wretch to his silence , and her to her peace , -- that comparative peace , at least , which she had striven so hard to secure . 
And so , having breasted one more wave of this day 's storm , she breathed again . 
But as a vessel in the trough of a heavy sea pauses only to gird herself for the next shock , so Angie , with all her powers close-reefed and fortified , sat braced up , erect , expectant . 
Every body about her was listening attentively to the statement of the attorney , who was rehearsing to the jury the facts he proposed to prove , -- every body but Hannah ; and she was sufficiently engrossed in watching the proceedings through her spectacles . 
Angie could not yet weigh and digest the events of the morning ; in the present momentary security and calm , she could only lock them up in her own breast , and patiently keep guard upon them . 
Beyond that , all she had to do , all she could do , was to preserve a show of calmness , and , as far as possible , deport herself like any other spectator on the occasion . 
It aided her in this endeavor to fix her eye upon the speaker , and follow his voice . 
This concentration of her powers , at first mechanical , after a while became real . 
It was impossible that she could be indifferent to the main features of a trial , with the prosecution of which she had unintentionally interfered ; otherwise , exciting as they might be to the general community , she would have been unable , burdened as she was , to follow with interest the details of crimes with which she had no concern . 
But circumstances had made her an associate in the business now before the court , and her attention once caught and riveted to the statement of the attorney , she soon became , not only in pretence , but in fact , one of his keenest and most absorbed listeners . 
Occasionally , indeed , her attention wandered , drawn , as it were , by magnetism to other parts of the house . 
One of these side glances revealed to her the stout , labor-bent form of Van Hausen , who had worked his way to the front ranks of the audience , just outside the rail that protected the circle of lawyers from intrusion , and who , leaning on his rustic whip-handle , was drinking in the attorney 's statement of charges about to be proved , his honest face at once incredulous and horror-struck . 
For this very reason , perhaps , his presence there , just opposite to her , disconcerted Angie . 
He was so suspicious of her , so unfriendly always . 
And again , she gave a little nervous start , as something withered , brown , and crumpled , winding its way insidiously through the crowd , just beneath the gallery , flashed upon her , like a snake in the grass , and then was lost to sight again . 
It was a sly old face and form that she had no trouble in recognizing . 
She did not even question why it should be here . 
Every familiar feature of her past life was coming to the surface to-day , -- why not Diedrich Stein ? 
Still , though she almost immediately lost sight of him , the knowledge of his presence gave her an uneasy sensation , such as one has with the consciousness of vermin in the vicinity . 
Already Angie 's champion , the ubiquitous constable , was whispering significantly in the ear of Trump , and before the government attorney could address another question to his witness the counsel for the defendants forestalled him . 
for his mother and Angie ! 
At George 's sudden reappearance , at the first sound of his voice , Angie 's heart had leaped up , then as suddenly ceased to beat ; the hot blood had rushed to her face and scorched her brain , to be succeeded by deadly paleness , and clammy drops of sweat that started out upon her brow . 
She had first sprung to her feet , then dropped heavily upon her knees , in which latter attitude she continued , fixed as stone , her hands grasping the rail that ran around the gallery , her chin supported by her hands . 
These were but faint indications of the emotions that seized and alternated within her ; -- joy and horror , longing and dread , thanksgiving and despair . 
Packed as the gallery was behind her , impossible as it was for her to move , her first impulse would have been to turn and endeavor to struggle to him through the crowd , but for the contrary impulse which bade her rather keep quiet , deny his indentity , beseech him , by some imploring gesture , to depart , fly , bury himself once more in oblivion . 
Excited , unreasoning , mad with love and fear , her senses first reeled , then seemed benumbed ; joy proved but a deeper shock of pain , relief but an aggravation of woe . 
She made no noise . 
Her sudden starting up was only the prelude to a similar act on the part of many , who , on the strange apparition of Margery , rose up , and even leaned far over the gallery , to watch her novel and eccentric progress through the crowd ; or , if Angie 's breath came quick and hard , and her breast heaved with something between a shriek of rapture and a groan of despair , these symptoms of agitation and agony were swallowed up in the congratulatory cheering and clapping of hands , which were simultaneous . 
she cried , grasping Angie by the arm . 
Hannah 's exclamations and her soliloquy -LRB- it was truly the latter , for she addressed no one , she did not even claim Angie 's attention -RRB- were so protracted , that when the sudden hush was enforced in the court-room they became audible , and not only absorbed for a moment the interest of those about her , but would have proved an interruption to the trial had she not been almost instantly checked by the restraining and monitory gestures of the fine lady next her , as well as by a deputy sheriff who had entered the gallery purposely to enforce silence , and who tapped her with his pole just in time to prevent her attracting the attention of George himself , which she was apparently endeavoring to do . 
How Angie looked , or what she endured at this moment , it is not for you , nor me , nor herself , ever to know . 
It is enough that she was neither stunned , nor crazed , nor stupefied ; that , noiseless , motionless , breathless , with an intensity of all her powers , which crowded years of common life into that awful moment , she watched and waited for the end . 
But the hair from which the faded hood had fallen , the delicate outline of the hands , the figure , half hidden by the old blue mandarin , none of these were needed to render George 's recognition of Angie complete and instantaneous . 
His heart had been no less true in its instincts than her own . 
He knew her before he looked up . 
Was it pity for himself or her which caused his eyes to fall as suddenly as they had been raised , and his back to be turned to her despair , while he once more faced the witness-stand ? 
Whether his first outburst of accusation had relieved his overcharged breast ; whether he experienced an involuntary awe and terror at having given form and publicity to the crime that had secretly haunted him so long ; whether `` conscience waked despair that slumbered , '' or whether there was still a soft spot in his heart , which Angie 's cry had reached , certain it is that the man , an instant before so eager and savage for his prey , subsided now into a strain more convincing and condemnatory because less wildly vindictive . 
Thus admonished , George stepped aside , bewildered by the terrible revelations of the moment , and tenderly supporting his mother , who , an instant before , simultaneously with Angie 's cry , without warning , without apparent motive , had rushed towards him with outspread arms , and infolded him , so far as might be , in the miniature shelter of her embrace . 
Some phantom of her imagination only . 
Angie still stood in her central position , her hands fallen from her face , her lips parted , her eyes strained wide open , her features and attitude indicative of nothing comprehensible to the observer ; it might have been anguish , fear , amazement , which so disturbed and petrified her , -- it simply looked like vacancy . 
Recognizing her , -- finding in her possibly the object of his search , -- Bullet smiled an icy smile , saluted her familiarly , and pressed his hand to his heart , as if in acknowledgment of her recent expression of interest in his fate . 
But , as I have said , no one noticed all this , not even Hannah , who sat close beside her , excited , suspicious , and not a little wrathful at her own inability to hear and comprehend what was going on , and at Angie 's unaccountable behavior and apparent indifference to her privations . 
It was a reasonable mystery , a natural complication , which thus confounded Angie with Polly Stein , or rather left the former out of the case altogether , except in the minds of the parties immediately concerned . 
I 'm een-a-most cramped to death in this place , an ' I ca n't git out nuther , -- Angie wo n't stir . 
-- and here one could just see , in the dim light , that Hannah gave Angie a final pull and nudge , and that both were wholly without effect upon the motionless object that intercepted her exit from the narrow quarters in which she had been imprisoned ever since morning . 
`` Angie ! '' 
`` Angie ! '' 
He was not much concerned for Angie . 
He was only wondering at George 's care for her . 
So much for jiltin ' an honest feller for the sake o ' sich varmin -LRB- for Van Hausen , as well as George , had mistaken the true cause of Angie 's emotion -RRB- . 
The first contact with the fresh air brought relief to George 's fears , for it sent a convulsive shiver through Angie 's frame , which was succeeded by similar spasms , recurring at intervals , and indicating that life still flowed in a full tide , -- a tide interrupted in its ordinary channels , out of course and threatening , but less to be dreaded than the deathly torpor which seemed to have settled upon her . 
Each of these thrills , electric in its effect , sent a quiver of joy and thankfulness through George 's heart , but almost unmanned him , too , so that he no longer carried Angie lightly and easily , but trembled beneath her weight . 
Doubtless rapid motion and fresh air were as wholesome remedies as could have been employed in her case , for soon she gasped , her breast heaved with one short convulsive breath , and she opened her eyes , -- glassy , unnatural eyes , -- which stared unmeaningly up at George , who , for the first time checking his pace , was pausing an instant at a street corner , partly to make sure of his course , partly to get one look at her by aid of the light that here glimmered feebly from a lamp-post . 
`` Angie , do n't you know me ? '' 
he now cried , with passionate vehemence , -- for he was frightened at the wild expression of her eyes . 
At this she laughed full in his face , and he , poor fellow , who had never heard such a laugh before , stood aghast , with an anguish and despair pictured on his features which all his years of martyrdom had never once reflected there . 
It was a wonder that he did not drop her upon the sidewalk , so terribly did he recoil from what he felt to be his work . 
But after the first shock he did what , in his self-respect and reverence for her had not dared to do before , he clasped her tightly to his heart , -- his generous heart , which accepted in its ruin what had repulsed him in its pride ; his loyal heart , which vowed fresh allegiance to its shattered idol , and ran on faster than before . 
cried the stout landlady of the `` Pipe and Bowl , '' as George , with Angie in his arms , dashed unceremoniously into her kitchen . 
George 's reply consisted in depositing Angie in a straight-backed chair , in front of a magnificent fire of hickory logs , and then glancing from her to the landlady with a face of hopeless dismay . 
exclaimed the good woman , thus appealed to ; `` if she 's froze , take her as far you can from the fire ; if she 's faint , lay her flat , -- or here , put her on my bed and I 'll soon bring her to , '' -- and the landlady , drawing aside the heavy Killeminster curtains of an old-fashioned Dutch bedstead , that stood in one corner of her kitchen , gave a notable slap to the patch-work quilt , and another to the checked pillow-case , which seemed to say , `` Put her right down here , and so , young man , and then I ` llsee to her . '' 
It was done ; and with the same readiness and zeal with which she would have plucked a chicken , the landlady untied the hood which hung to the back of Angie 's neck , unfastened and removed her mandarin , and commenced an energetic rubbing of her hands and wrists . 
Angie , meanwhile , had manifested no other symptom of life than an occasional heaving of the chest , and a sound , something between a breath and a sob . 
Her narves are all unstrung ; a stranger 'll manage with her better 'n her own folks ; you go way out o ' sight , '' to Margery , `` and you , too , '' to George ; and having waived them both , away , she proceeded to rub Angie 's hands and feet , chafe her temples , and otherwise endeavor to restore a natural circulation to her system . 
Hannah , satisfied with the wholesome effect of her reprimand , retired to the other end of the room and stood gazing into the fire ; Van Hausen , meanwhile , had beckoned to George from the door-way , and the two had gone off together ; Margery , silent , patient , humble as ever , in spite of the joy and deliverance wrought out for her this day , sat in the corner to which the landlady had motioned her when she banished her from Angie 's bedside . 
The stillness of the room -LRB- for except that her breath came quick and hard , Angie was quiet now -RRB- , the warmth , the cheerful , flickering blaze of the fire , the recollections of the past , the revelations of the present , all were telling upon Hannah with subduing effect . 
Stern triumph had shone in her eyes as she entered the tavern , -- an unqualified triumph , that could not endure the display of any less exultant emotion , as was witnessed in her rebuke to Angie 's weakness and prostration of nerve . 
now asked Hannah , checking the landlady who was crossing the room on tiptoe , and pointing to the bed where Angie lay , with closed eyes , and hands devoutly clasped upon her breast . 
The landlady gave an affirmative nod , and glanced at her patient with an air of satisfaction . 
questioned the landlady , as , coming back when her other labors were completed , to look after her charge , she found Angie awake and making an effort to rise . 
`` I 'm better now , '' said Angie , in the feeble , tremulous tone of one greatly exhausted . 
`` No ; I 'll sit up now , '' persisted Angie , with quiet decision ; and sliding off from the high bed , she took a step forward , but she had over-calculated her strength ; she staggered , and would have fallen , but her watchful nurse caught her and supported her to a seat . 
Angie sank into the first chair that offered itself , with a faint smile , which seemed to say , `` O , I 'm better ; I shall do very well now . '' 
Angie , though she did not think it worth while to contradict the landlady 's assertion , had not been asleep , nor , since she was first revived by the open air of the street , wholly unconscious , though utterly unable to control the purely physical effects of the terrible excitement she had undergone . 
For the last half hour she had lain in that repose of utter exhaustion which resembles sleep , and is scarcely less refreshing . 
Angie , her face wan and colorless , and rendered more so , apparently , by the background of dark , rippling hair , which had been pushed back in a heavy mass from her forehead to relieve her throbbing temples , sat with her hand riveted to that of Margery , and her head almost resting on the shoulder of the old woman , who was bending fondly over her , for the first time in their mutual experience , the least helpless of the two , when a door close by , which led directly from the kitchen to the stable yard , opened , and Van Hausen , followed by George , entered abruptly . 
The latter , equally fixed in his purpose , saw nothing but Angie 's pale face ; and stepping cautiously up behind his mother , whispered eagerly , as he laid a hand on Margery 's shoulder , `` She 's better , is n't she ? 
Angie started at hearing his voice so near her ; so did Margery . 
`` Yes , George , I 'm -- I 'm -- you -- '' the effort was too much for Angie ; her lip quivered ; he started forward , and was about to snatch the hand his mother had relinquished , when something came between him and his intention . 
A wistful look on his part , a timid one on Angie 's , were stolen rather than exchanged ; and thus , after five years of separation , and all the misery that had intervened , this , their first broken interview , ended in mutual disappointment , embarrassment , and constraint . 
It was sustenance enough for the mother , soul and body , that her eyes were feasting on her son ; and George , whether elated by the fulfilment of his heart 's best prophecies , or agitated by something worse than its fears ; whether satiated already with good cheer , and inwardly saying grace , or choked with a similar emotion to that which made Angie , sitting in her dark corner , discourage the good landlady 's attempts to put a little life into her in the form of poached eggs and mutton broth , was , at all events , unsuccessful in his attempts to even feign an appetite . 
Angie , who had caught the familiar sound of the bells , was standing with her face to the wall , hurriedly clasping the hooks and eyes of her mandarin , when a voice close to her ear , said , in tones of fraternal tenderness , `` Angie , do n't go home to-night -- it is n't prudent ! 
she answered , in a tremulous , imploring voice , giving one grateful look up at him , then , hiding her face beneath her hood , which she snatched up , put on , and tied with nervous haste , thus protesting , by deed as well as by word , against being left behind . 
I mustgo -- that is , '' -- faltering at this new thought , and humbly qualifying her former earnestness , -- `` unless there is n't room . '' 
only it 's such a frosty night , I 'm afraid -- '' `` O no , if that 's all , '' answered Angie , interrupting , but not looking him in the face , looking every where else in her nervousness and agitation , -- `` that , that 's nothing . '' 
Van Hausen had already marshalled out his sister and Margery ; and Angie , with a step tottering less from weakness than from the effect of her first interchange of words with George , and her fear lest his proposition might be carried into effect , made a hasty movement to follow them . 
George , having thus proved her resolve , however , gave her no further opportunity to test her strength . 
More rapid and decisive in his movements than herself , he , without permission or the form of an apology , wrapped a warm overcoat of his own around her shoulders as an additional protection from the weather , lifted her in his arms , and without suffering her feet to touch the snow-covered sidewalk , without even giving her a chance to say good-night to the landlady who was shivering in the door-way , as she waited there to see them off , deposited her in the vacant space left for her on the back seat of the pung . 
George 's strong arms were ready to carry first his mother , then Angie , then his aunt Hannah even , through the snow , and deposit them dry-shod within doors , and this in spite of Hannah Rawle 's obstinate resistance , which ended in an almost boisterous struggle between her and her nephew , a genuine burst of laughter on his part and on hers , as he set her down in the door-way , the indignant protest , `` Do yer think I mind a little flurry o ' snow , or that I 've lost the use o ' my limbs , yer sarcy feller ? '' 
Not to linger long , however , for Hannah , tired herself , perhaps pitying Margery 's exhaustion , for Margery , the weaker of the two , could , by this time , scarcely hold up her head for weariness , sent Angie to bed , with the curt , yet well-meant assertion , `` that 's the best place for you , child , '' and when Angie had gone , resisted all George 's entreaties for oneminute 's more delay , the answer to onemore question . 
So , while he was the centre of an enthusiastic circle , Angie , somewhere in the outskirts , was continually beckoned aside , plucked by the gown , or by certain signs and innuendoes , given to understand that the contents of various boxes , bags , and parcels , mysteriously smuggled into the house , were intended as contributions to Mrs. Rawle 's Christmas dinner , and were recommended to Angie 's care . 
`` They might as well have said breakfast , '' growled Hannah , who , having strayed discontentedly into the pantry , about the middle of the morning , and there found Angie preparing a fat goose for roasting , had learned from her its origin and destiny . 
But its essential character , its main features , were detailed so many times , that even Angie , her attention called off continually , and her services claimed at every turn , gleaned enough , at last , to have a vague comprehension of those points in the story which gave rise to the exclamations of surprise , and the murmurs of gratitude that , as she went about her tasks , echoed the swellings of her own heart . 
Margery , meanwhile , indifferent to all this coming and going , this buzz of human voices , this unwonted preparation of Christmas cheer , remained all day wrapped in that trance of joy , that blissful delirium , which seemed to lift her into a sort of cloud-land , and gave a dreamy expression to her face , on which rested the smile of a perfect content . 
She asked no questions , not even on points of her son 's experience , of which she was wholly ignorant ; she entered into no communication with any body ; when the neighbors addressed her , as they all did , in tones of earnest congratulation , she suffered this smile of hers to wander to them for an instant , but it immediately returned to its fond allegiance ; it was enough for her silently to gaze on her son , instinctively to know that she was blest . 
But for the wrinkles that time had left on her face , I am confident she must have looked just so once , -- once only , -- some thirty years ago , on the morning after George was born . 
It was these which inspired him with the sudden resolution to seek Angie , learn his standing and fate , and act upon that knowledge . 
And when , scorned by her , and branded with disgrace by both his uncles , he was wrought almost to frenzy , even his frenzy took its character from the generosity and harmlessness of a nature which had never wronged or injured aught in the world but itself . 
It could not be the Christmas fare for which Stein thus lingered ; for though Angie , suspicious that he meant to stay , näively took care to roast his one fowl for him , he ate little of that or any thing else , but sat close at George 's elbow , watching him carve and eat , as he might have watched a king at his repast . 
Angie performed her accustomed duties with a calmness and placidity which were in strong contrast to the tumultuous and passionate agitation which she had so recently evinced , and with the self-reliant energy and perseverance , which , as Hannah often used to say , made her weakness worth more than the strength of other women . 
Nor was Angie any less the victim of bitter and selfreproachful reflections . 
Had she not wronged him from first to last , from the days when she tyrannized over him in the past , and slighted his boyish love , up to the moment when that cry of hers in the court-room was wrung from the heart that imputed guilt where there was no guilt ? 
What part could she claim in the present triumph ? 
Humble service , joyfully rendered to him and his , tears of thanksgiving shed in secret , grateful praises to the Source of all good , these were her portion ; but from the general jubilee she felt herself an outcast . 
So she went about her daily tasks calm and pale ; and such was the reaction from nervous excitement , such the self-restraint which she imposed upon herself , that amidst the universal rejoicing she alone looked sad . 
Studiously avoiding observation , she seldom raised her eyes from her work or the floor , except to take note of some household want , or supply an omission to somebody 's comfort . 
Otherwise she suffered her long lashes to droop upon her cheek , and wore on her face that meek and patient expression , which of late had become habitual with her , but which was unfamiliar to George . 
In the long talks that took place round the fireside at night she bore scarcely any part . 
He offered them to her with such simple and brotherly cordiality , merely saying , as he unpacked his sea-chest in the kitchen , `` Here , this is for you , Angie , and this ; O , and this ! '' 
I will not say that this was possible for Angie . 
I have never claimed for her one of those equally-balanced and harmonious characters which can coolly weigh a position , or drill themselves to a uniform propriety of action . 
It is true her original traits had been greatly subdued and modified . 
Angie had not lost her identity , and she must be pardoned if both her feelings and her behavior , under her present painful circumstances , partook of exaggeration . 
Still it was a pity ; for of course George misunderstood it all , was confirmed in his belief that she was suffering cruel mortification at discovering in the pirate Bullet the lover who had so captivated her fancy , and that she was overwhelmed with grief and horror at his untimely fate . 
Of course he suspected that if she had pined for any one , it had been for this deceitful gallant ; and that so far from cherishing any tenderness for himself , she was more than ever estranged from him now that , by the part he had played in the arrest and conviction of his rival , he had , to say the least , associated himself in her mind with this blow to her love and her pride . 
He was deeply touched at the intimate and mutually dependent relations which existed between Angie and his mother . 
He was astonished at the confidence and partiality his aunt Hannah manifested towards the former ; for though Hannah had a rough way of proving it -LRB- a way which sometimes disproved it in strangers ' eyes -RRB- , it was easy for one who knew her well to see how completely she trusted Angie , approved her ways , and at times , in her eccentric fashion , petted and praised the girl , who , by her quick wit and ready tact , exercised vastly more influence over her than any young person had ever possessed before . 
Angie -LRB- much as he loved his mother , he could not help thinking of Angie first -RRB- could do quite as well without him as with him . 
Sometimes it even seemed as if he were in her way . 
It was true she had always been dull and spiritless , but then it was an open , acknowledged depression , which only lay on the surface , and which expended itself naturally in the `` dearie me 's ! '' 
Now he mistrusted that her lifeless , apathetic moods had a deeper root ; that their foundation had been laid in those long years of desertion and loneliness for which it was too late now for him to make any atonement . 
If Angie evaded his assistance , or found his offers of service oppressive he could exercise his ingenuity in secretly providing for her wants , leaving her to the supposition that it had been done by fairies . 
Then he had always a resource in his aunt Hannah , who , truly blessed in her nephew 's society , reaped the benefit of his mother 's silence and Angie 's reserve , inasmuch as George 's most animated sallies , the exuberance of spirits which he occasionally manifested , were inevitably expended on her . 
And although she tried to be severe , and often pushed him from her with the harsh remonstrance , `` Get out of my way , you teasin ' feller ; you pester me to depth ! '' 
the smiles that wrinkled her hard face , and now and then the ready retort , encouraged the pestering , teasing fellow , and sharpened his wit against the keen edge of her own . 
Angie 's reception of her share of the latter had mortified and discouraged him perhaps , for , without completing the task , he had pushed the chest back against the wall , and gone to exhaust his vexation in hammering away at some of his carpenter 's work , greatly to the disgust and annoyance of Hannah , who , having seen a small cockroach escape from the chest and run across the nicely sanded floor , was apprehensive of more of such intruders , and was impatient to have the chest emptied and transferred to the wood-shed . 
The way it 's come back into my possession at last is the greatest mystery , the most wonderful coincidence I ever heard of ; '' and as he spoke , he could not refrain from casting upon Angie a curious , not to say suspicious , glance . 
She was startled , evidently , and was gazing at this new trophy with wonder and dismay ; but George 's attention was instantly distracted from her face by Hannah 's eager cry , `` The mate to my mitten , I vum ! '' 
cried George , forgetting the caution he had hitherto preserved on Angie 's account . 
How he came by them in the first place , Heaven only knows , I 'm sure I do n't ; '' and here George stole a side glance at Angie , which might have been interpreted to mean , It 's just possible you do . 
Angie , as she stood watching him , felt as if he were dissecting her conscience , and turning her heart inside out . 
in a terrified but half-suppressed voice , at the same time a hand placed over his mouth , another grasping at and endeavoring to cover and hide the fatal initials marked with red on which his finger was resting emphatically , -- these were enough to arrest his words and cause him to look up inquiringly in the face of Angie , who , as he knelt beside the chest , was bending over him , her attitude , her voice , her countenance imploring him to refrain . 
he ejaculated , alarmed by her impetuosity and puzzled at her warning . 
and her brief and imperfect expostulation interrupted by Hannah 's return , Angie retreated abruptly and resumed her former place and attitude . 
He had understood enough of Angie 's expostulation for that . 
The accident of her doing so , or failing to do so , made all the difference of her mastering the secret which had for five years moulded the lives of Margery and Angie , or of her going down to her grave in total ignorance of it . 
-- determined the matter ; for , had the case been reversed , I am afraid that in spite of all the lessons of forbearance which Providence was teaching her , she could never from that time to the day of her death have forborne occasionally twitting the other two with their injustice to George . 
To what extent her own suspicious of her nephew might , under like circumstances , have been carried , it is impossible to say . 
Now that light had been thrown upon the whole transaction , she doubtless acquitted herself of any such fallibility , as human nature , untested by temptation , generally does acquit itself . 
`` That 's right , put it out o ' my sight forevermore , '' she said , as she watched her cherished bit of proof disappear within the depths of George 's pocket . 
Inever would ha ' mistrusted yer , my boy , not I , '' she added , hastily . 
But I thank God , '' she added , fervently , `` that shortened the hand of a foolish old woman , and took the cause o ' justice into his own . 
you , Angie ? 
Angie 's breast heaved , her face was turned away . 
he cried , seizing Margery 's culprit hands , at the same time forcibly turning Angie 's face towards him , and as he thus held both at arm 's length , compelling them to meet the gaze which shot rapidly from one to the other . 
`` Do n't ask me , Geordie , '' was the agonized ejaculation of Angie . 
to Angie . 
`` It was , '' murmured Angie . 
`` Nor I , '' sobbed Angie ; `` nor I. '' `` But you believed it , '' he cried with bitterness ; `` you believed me an unnatural , cruel , blood-thirsty villain . 
O Angie ! '' 
Such was the sympathy , such the hopelessness with which the thoughts of Margery and Angie followed George in his flight . 
Not long after nine , the hour when he knew she invariably retired , his hand was on the door-latch ; and as he lifted it , the hearts of Margery and Angie , who sat watching and waiting by the fireside , leaped up also , and instinctively , moved by a common impulse , they rose to meet him , as if he had returned after weeks of absence . 
A stranger would have thought he had -- for he walked straight up to his mother and embraced her tenderly ; then drew Angie towards him , lifted her face gently , solemnly , just as he did when he parted from her so many years ago , and kissed her in the same spot on her forehead . 
With what generous protective love he now gazed from one to the other , his left arm twined round and supporting his mother , his right hand clasping one of Angie 's ! 
`` Dear mother , dear Angie , '' he said , `` I have come back to tell you that I 've got over it . 
`` Mother , Angie , '' he resumed , in reply , `` when God 's hand was heavy upon me , when I saw in each day 's starvation , and misery , and chains a just punishment for my wasted youth , my ingratitude , my hard , revengeful heart , I vowed again and again to pardon my fellow-creatures every injury , known or unknown , as I hoped and prayed God would some day have pity on and pardon me . 
`` Do you think , '' he earnestly continued , `` that when toiling under an African sun I pined for one breath of Jersey air , when there was no heaven to my mind like the heaven of home , when I would gladly have died if I could but take my mother 's hand in mine -LRB- and he pressed the withered hand -RRB- , or have one more look at the face I loved best in the world -LRB- and he gazed fondly into Angie 's eyes -RRB- , do you think then I asked myself -- what or how much Iwas to you?No ! 
`` And now , '' he exclaimed with fresh fervor , the sobs of the two women alone interrupting him , -- `` now that I am a free man , and at home once more , with you in my arms , mother , with you , Angie , by my side , do you think I can have it in my heart to reproach you because , when I gave you reason to believe nothing but evil of me , you laid more guilt to my door than I really deserved ? 
But let bygones be bygones ; and , please God , for the rest of my days I 'll be so much better son to you , mother , -LRB- and he gave her a filial hug -RRB- , so much worthier friend to you , if you 'll let me , Angie -LRB- and he laid his hand protectingly , beseechingly , on her head -RRB- , that if fate parts us again I 'll leave behind me no dark memories to poison your faith in me and blacken my good name . '' 
And when they reiterated their assurances that they would have trusted him , that they had trusted him , more entirely than any other man living ; that nothing but the evidence of their own senses had deceived them , he interrupted them with , `` I know -- I know -- the evidence was damning , -- nobody can deny that ; -- my rage against uncle Baultie , my desperation and threats of vengeance , my skulking off as I did at dead of night , and that mitten of your own knitting , mother , -- with my initials on it , that you marked yourself , Angie ! '' 
`` I , '' answered Angie , penitently , mortified as she thus acknowledged the suspicion which that act implied , -- `` I , '' -- that first night when she was asleep . 
Bless you , Angie ; whatever your own suspicions were , you saved me from public degradation and shame . 
Your cry of terror , Angie , '' he exclaimed , as one recollection after another flashed upon him . 
`` He had promised me , '' cried Angie , `` and I believed him . 
She told him as well as she could , in broken phrases and with a stammering tongue , he and Margery mute with wonder at her courage and the ready tact with which she had improved her opportunity . 
And yet you talk of forgiveness , '' he added , in a chiding tone , to his hearers , `` as if I had any thing to forgive ; I , whom it becomes rather to think of thanks , not for all you have done and tried to do to save and protect my good name -LRB- though I owe you much for that -RRB- , but for the love that outlived all , -- that 's what touches me , mother , -- that 's what I find it hard to believe in , Angie , '' -- and his voice was stifled and broken with emotion . 
`` And your cry , Angie , that terrible cry in the court-room , '' he continued , with difficulty mastering his agitation , and only by a great effort bringing his mind to a realization of the truth that was dawning upon him ; `` it was not for him , then , after all ? '' 
asked Angie , in surprise , and looking inquiringly into George 's face . 
was the reproachful exclamation with which she interrupted and relieved his hesitation , `` did you suppose I could ever care for such a wretch after thatnight ? '' 
`` What night , Angie ? '' 
In a word , then , I was blind -- I was a fool , Angie -- but I see ! 
-LRB- her blushes and tears at this moment were greater telltales than her tongue -RRB- , `` and for the future I will be a wiser , and you may believe me , a happier man . 
Dearest mother , dearest Angie , if your hearts have been so true to a poor fellow in spite of the crimes of which you have believed him guilty , I am sure you will not love him less now that his innocence is proved . 
Then the tongue that for years had cleaved to the roof of her mouth , was loosed , the voice that horror and dread had well nigh palsied broke forth mellow and clear , the gift that had once made Margery Rawle the leader of church and prayer-meeting descended mightily upon her , and George , and Angie , feeling their souls taught of the Spirit , followed where she led the way , and united in the offering of praise and thanksgiving which her inspired tongue laid on the altar of the Most High . 
Peter 's attic room , too , was the secret rendezvous of his fellow-conspirators ; it was here that they met by appointment on the night of the murder , and here that Bullet , after returning from his visit to Angie , proved himself ready for any game that offered , high or low , by beguiling the time until midnight in playing at old sledge with the maudlin youth and winning his last cent . 
It is the hour when Hannah and Margery are accustomed to take a serious and premeditated pinch of snuff , when Hannah subsides into a nap and Margery into a fit of meditation , under the influence of this grateful little indulgence ; when the tea-kettle , pushed out to the end of the crane , ceases its hissing ; when no business is persevered in except on the part of the old clock , which keeps up its ticking behind the door , and of Angie 's fingers , which , like those of the faithful time-piece , are impelled by such a spirit of industry that they are rarely known to be idle . 
Only the other day it was at this hour that he resumed the unpacking of his sea-chest , and now , again , to-day he has been claiming Angie 's attention for a half hour or more . 
George has had the charts of his recent voyages spread upon the floor -LRB- there was no table in the house large enough -RRB- , and he and Angie together have been tracing his ship 's course , by means of the delicate lines pricked out with the point of a pin . 
To Angie it was but a line of dots , to be sure ; but love can fill a space no larger than a pin 's point with visions as boundless as love itself ; and Angie , seeing in each scarce perceptible dot a day of George 's experience , felt , in thus recapitulating his voyages with him , that they were living over again together months and years of cruel separation . 
The charts are done with , are rolled up and placed upright in one corner , George is sitting at a window amusing himself with a book , -- an old history of travels which he has found somewhere ; Angie has resumed her work at an opposite window , a handkerchief I think it is which she is hemming , one of those grass-cloth handkerchiefs , which people who go to sea are so apt to bring home , -- a full-sized handkerchief , -- so she must be hemming it for George himself . 
But he interrupts her again . 
This time it is something in his book which he wants to read to her , -- George is of such a sympathetic nature that he never can enjoy any thing alone ; no , it is a print , a little wood-cut which he has discovered , and which she must see , for he crosses the room to show it to her . 
Now he stands leaning over her shoulder , pointing out this and that to her notice . 
or `` How I longed to have you breathing that delicious climate he tells about ; it will do you a world of good ; it 's just what you need , Angie ! '' 
which last significant hints of his anticipations Angie does not hear , or pretends not to understand , for she makes no response , but seems absorbed in the book , so much so that George forbears to interrupt her further until she shall have finished the passage . 
`` It does my heart good to see her , '' commented George , as having watched her brisk step through the door-way he turned again towards Angie . 
`` She does , '' returned Angie , in cordial assent , `` and feels younger , too ; '' an opinion which Angie proceeded to illustrated by a comparison of Margery 's former feebleness and incapacity with her present activity and personal oversight of the household , offices which Hannah , who is her sister-in-law 's senior by many years , and who is now more than willing to sink into the repose of old age , fortunately does not seem to begrudge her . 
`` They 'll not miss you so very much after all , Angie , '' continued George . 
To which Angie only responded by shaking her head from side to side in the negative fashion , and bending lower than ever over her work . 
But George , meanwhile , was playfully trying to wrest her work from her , expostulating against it as unnecessary , and throwing out broad hints concerning a certain piece of India muslin -LRB- one of his gifts -RRB- , which it was quite time for her to commence operations upon . 
murmured Angie , `` not at all . 
And then when she persisted , sighed , and let a tear drop on her work , he snatched the work from her hand , told her she was nervous , depressed ; that he was sure she must be ill ; she needed fresh air and change of scene . 
She must go to New York with him the next day , see the fashions , and visit the landlady of the `` Pipe and Bowl , '' who only yesterday was inquiring for her ; `` and meantime , '' he said , cheerily , putting his arms round her waist , lifting her from her chair , and at the same time giving her a hearty kiss -LRB- saucy fellow , he made nothing of kissing her nowadays -RRB- , `` come , and take a walk with me ! 
`` But I am serious , George , '' sobbed Angie , trying , though quite in vain , to evade both his petition and his caress . 
`` You think because you 've been miserable so long you 're bound to be so always ; and because I 've had to wait five years for my wife , I 'm never to have her ; and because you 've wronged me -LRB- though I do n't allow that , Angie ; and if you love me , you 'll never speak of it again -RRB- , I 'm not to be righted at last . 
O Angie ! 
This was not the first time that Angie had thus disparaged herself , and tried to convince George of her unworthiness to be his wife ; possibly , it was not the last . 
But things were changed since their old days of courtship , when George 's love shrank abashed at every obstacle raised by Angie . 
But Love 's eloquence expresses itself in whispers , which it would be meanness to overhear , treachery to make public , and in looks that love only can interpret ; so though Angie 's scruples , on the present occasion , were not silenced by George 's reasoning , the looks and words of love that prevailed at last , and left the victory with him , must be matters of suspicion , except so far as they were revealed by the smiles and blushes , which , as she left the room , in gentle and compliant mood , to prepare for her walk , shone through her tears , and played over her face in rainbows . 
She returned equipped in cloak and hood , -- a new scarlet cloak , -- Hannah 's gift . 
Hannah , who had always kept the purse , had , it seemed , a secret horde , and was resolved that Angie , `` our Angie , '' as she called her , should be fit to be seen , now that she went regularly to church with the captain ; and the faded hood was freshened up , too , with wonderful art and boasted a bright cherry lining to match the cloak . 
How daintily and cautiously Angie trod the glistening snow-crust at first , and with what a bold and elastic step at length , as she gradually acquired confidence in her own sure-footedness , and realized what a firm stay she possessed in the arm on which she leaned ! 
Her cheeks , still pale , and not quite so rounded as they had once been , glowed with exercise and caught radiance from the gorgeous clouds that fringed the western horizon , and the saucy wind curled and rippled the jetty locks that escaped coquettishly from her hood -LRB- it must be confessed , though I whisper it between the bars of a parenthesis , that a dash of the old coquetry , the French comme il faut , had again crept into Angie 's dress and air , though her character was guiltless of its taint -RRB- . 
Worn , harassed , distressed , Angie had appeared to him at first , but how could it be otherwise ? 
The change , great as it was , had but proved a fresh claim to his tenderness and sympathy , and since then , -- why , she was more beautiful than ever in his eyes . 
If love is often deceived and blind , it is none the less certain that happiness is a miraculous beautifier , and joy had day by day been illumining , harmonizing , rejuvenating the form and features of Angie until the once dashing and brilliant traits of the girl were put to shame by the softer graces of her purified and ripened womanhood . 
So George was not so very far wrong , when in answer to Angie 's protest against some excessive adulation of his , on the ground that she was too old and faded now to be cheated , as she used to be , by flattery , he exclaimed , `` Why , Angie , I was just thinking that if you kept on improving at the rate you have for the last five years , you 'd be an angel before your time . '' 
George , so vigorous , well-formed , and manly , Angie , so graceful , piquant and radiant , and both so animated with the sentiment which is the soul of all beauty ! 
Angie , in the mean time , had proceeded directly up stairs to a comfortable upper room , the door of which stood ajar . 
She had no occasion to knock , -- she was too frequent , too welcome a visitor to this room to stand on ceremony . 
An instant 's pause at the threshold , however , and an oblique cast of the head , told how attentively , anxiously , she was listening to the deep , hard-drawn breathing of some sufferer within ; then , instinctively unclasping her red cloak and throwing it , as also her gay hood , over the baluster of the staircase -LRB- such gay trappings were out of place here -RRB- , the neat figure , clad in sober brown , slid noiselessly , as was her wont , into the sick room . 
She was welcomed by a thin , imploring hand , a gesture of distress , and an `` O Angie ! '' 
she said , in a sympathetic tone , as she lifted the sufferer 's head , and rearranged her pillow ; `` have you had your drops ? '' 
and on Polly 's making a sign in the negative , Angie took bottle and spoon from the mantelpiece , and administered the dose with the confidence of one to whom the act was familiar . 
Then she sat down beside the bed a while , noted and inquired pitifully concerning each increased symptom of pain , and tried to soothe and comfort the poor thing , who moaned like a fretful , exhausted child . 
And when at last she had moaned herself into an uneasy doze , Angie moved gently about the room , prepared medicine and nourishment for the night , and then , as Polly still slept , crept down stairs to the kitchen . 
He had done for her all that man could do , and Angie had done the rest . 
Thus the frequent conferences between him and Stein ; thus the many transactions in which they were mutually engaged ; and thus when Angie softly entered the room , and laid her hand on George 's shoulder to arrest his attention , a nervous start on the part of Stein , an abrupt jerking back of his chair , and mysterious gestures and hints of secrecy directed towards his nephew . 
`` She 's worse , George , '' said Angie . 
George looked up , interpreted the expression of her face , said , approvingly , `` That 's right ; I would n't ; '' then added , `` I shall stay too of course ; you may want me . '' 
Angie thought not -- said he had better go home , and come over for her in the morning ; but he was resolute , and it was well he was so . 
It would have been too sad a night for Angie to spend alone , and neither Stein nor a solitary woman servant , nearly as decrepit as himself , could be counted any body . 
So he went back to the cottage , gave notice of their intended absence , and brought back a comfortable supper and some hot coffee for his uncle and Angie , and the old blue mandarin , to keep the latter comfortable during her long watch . 
Then , when every thing was quiet for the night , he took his station at the kitchen fire , and remained there , broad awake and listening , until just before dawn , when Angie called him . 
`` George , '' she said , in a suppressed voice , `` come ! '' 
`` She 's going fast , '' whispered Angie . 
She was rambling in her talk , and for the most part incoherent ; but now and then an expressive word , a connected phrase , revealed the hopes , the yearnings , the visions of a soul just vibrating between this world and the next . 
Already in spirit she had crossed the boundary , and in the dim distance saw the land where they dwell of whom Christ has said that of such is the kingdom of heaven . 
Often since the death of her child vague intimations had dropped from her lips of a faith born of ignorance but exalted by love , -- a strange , unreasoning , pathetic faith , -- which promised her that she should some day walk in white , hand in hand with the little one now in glory , her sins all purged , her guilt all washed away , for the sake and by the power of her child transfigured , her innocent one made immortal . 
And this simple faith , this soul-assuring confidence , was triumphant in her now . 
She did not see the watchers by her bedside . 
Her glazed eyes were raised upward in rapt vision , her thin , wasted arms outstretched for the eager embrace . 
she cried , `` do you see me ? 
now again she murmured ; `` the sweetest , the dearest of them all ! 
She was gone . 
Gone , poor , untaught soul , to learn , we will trust , in some better land , of a love stronger than a mother 's , deeper than death and the grave ; gone to seek mercy by the power and for the sake of him who gave himself a ransom for the sins of many ; gone to reap some share , perhaps , in that redemption , which , greater than faith , greater than love , is `` the infinite charity of God . '' 
Diedrich Steinoutlived both his children -LRB- for the torch of Peter 's sluggish life , which had blazed up so madly at the close , went out at last in a flash some time during the spring succeeding Polly 's death -RRB- . 
That George sped well with his suit , is placed beyond doubt by the town records , which prove his marriage with Angie to have taken place within three weeks from that point in their courtship where we last left them ; and thanks to the fact that half the children of the parish were included in the generous wedding invitation , there are many yet living who have a distinct recollection of that holiday event . 
That George was triumphant also in his scheme of taking Angie with him on his approaching voyage to Surinam , -- possibly on future and more extended voyages -- is evidenced by scraps of foreign correspondence still preserved in the family archives , by a reciprocal friendship which is known to have existed between her and George 's friends at the South American port , by the reputation of an experienced traveller which she to some extent shared with her husband , and above all by the vigorous constitution and renewed youth which must be at least partially attributed to the change of climate and the healthful sea-breezes which she enjoyed at this crisis of her life . 
These experiences , however , must have been compressed into a comparatively brief period , for within a year or two after her marriage she was figuring as the centre and light of a domestic circle no longer domiciled within the contracted limits of the cross-road cottage , but occupying the wider area of the old tavern , which , together with the Cousin property and the Rawle farm , had , partly by the act of restitution , partly by natural inheritance , become vested in George . 
Van Hausen 's deeply-grounded prejudice against Angie must have yielded to the influence of time and truth , or been subdued by those thoughtful winning ways which , in her new relation as George 's wife , were more directly brought to bear upon him . 
