On the drawers opposite to the little white dimity bed in which Molly Gibson lay , was a primitive kind of bonnet-stand on which was hung a bonnet , carefully covered over from any chance of dust with a large cotton handkerchief ; of so heavy and serviceable a texture that if the thing underneath it had been a flimsy fabric of gauze and lace and flowers , it would have been altogether `` scomfished '' -LRB- again to quote from Betty 's vocabulary -RRB- . 
Still , there was a neat little quilling inside , every plait of which Molly knew , for had she not made it herself the evening before , with infinite pains ? 
and was there not a little blue bow in this quilling , the very first bit of such finery Molly had ever had the prospect of wearing ? 
Up jumped Molly , and ran with her bare little feet across the room , and lifted off the handkerchief and saw once again the bonnet ; the pledge of the gay bright day to come . 
Then to the window , and after some tugging she opened the casement , and let in the sweet morning air . 
Molly Gibson saw all this , but all she thought about it was , `` Oh ! 
Five-and-forty years ago , children 's pleasures in a country town were very simple , and Molly had lived for twelve long years without the occurrence of any event so great as that which was now impending . 
it is true that she had lost her mother , which was a jar to the whole tenour of her life ; but that was hardly an event in the sense referred to ; and besides , she had been too young to be conscious of it at the time . 
The pleasure she was looking forward to to-day was her first share in a kind of annual festival in Hollingford . 
For the first time in her life , Molly Gibson was to be included among the guests at the Towers . 
She was much too young to be a visitor at the school , so it was not on that account that she was to go ; but it had so happened that one day when Lord Cumnor was on a `` pottering '' expedition , he had met Mr. Gibson , the doctor of the neighbourhood , coming out of the farm-house my lord was entering ; and having some small question to ask the surgeon -LRB- Lord Cumnor seldom passed any one of his acquaintance without asking a question of some sort -- not always attending to the answer ; it was his mode of conversation -RRB- , he accompanied Mr. Gibson to the out-building , to a ring in the wall of which the surgeon 's horse was fastened . 
Molly was there too , sitting square and quiet on her rough little pony , waiting for her father . 
Her grave eyes opened large and wide at the close neighbourhood and evident advance of `` the earl ; '' for to her little imagination the grey-haired , red-faced , somewhat clumsy man , was a cross between an archangel and a king . 
`` Your daughter , eh , Gibson ? 
Mind you send her , or bring her , Gibson ; and just give a word to your groom , for I 'm sure that pony was not singed last year , now , was he ? 
Mr. Gibson mounted , and he and Molly rode off . 
Then she said , `` May I go , papa ? '' 
That gentleman '' -LRB- she was shy of calling him by his title -RRB- , `` asked me . '' 
said Molly , reproachfully . 
I think we can manage it , if you wish it so much , Molly . '' 
By-and-by , Molly said , -- `` Please , papa -- I do wish to go , -- but I do n't care about it . '' 
Now , there were two or three things to be done by Mr. Gibson , before he could feel quite comfortable about Molly 's going to the festival at the Towers , and each of them involved a little trouble on his part . 
But he was very willing to gratify his little girl ; so the next day he rode over to the Towers , ostensibly to visit some sick housemaid ; but , in reality , to throw himself in my lady 's way , and get her to ratify Lord Cumnor 's invitation to Molly . 
Long as his ride had been that day , he called on the Miss Brownings in the evening , to arrange about Molly 's accompanying them to the Towers . 
`` Molly will know she 's to put on her best clothes , '' said Miss Browning . 
`` We could perhaps lend her a few beads , or artificials , if she wants them . '' 
`` Molly must go in a clean white frock , '' said Mr. Gibson , rather hastily ; for he did not admire the Miss Brownings ' taste in dress , and was unwilling to have his child decked up according to their fancy ; he esteemed his old servant Betty 's as the more correct , because the more simple . 
But Miss Phoebe said , `` Molly will look very nice in whatever she puts on , that 's certain . '' 
Molly was ready long before it made its first appearance , although it had been settled that she and the Miss Brownings were not to go until the last , or fourth , time of its coming . 
Her face had been soaped , scrubbed , and shone brilliantly clean ; her frills , her frock , her ribbons were all snow-white . 
She had on a black mode cloak that had been her mother 's ; it was trimmed round with rich lace , and looked quaint and old-fashioned on the child . 
For the first time in her life she wore kid gloves ; hitherto she had only had cotton ones . 
Her gloves were far too large for the little dimpled fingers , but as Betty had told her they were to last her for years , it was all very well . 
Betty might say what she liked about a watched pot never boiling ; Molly never ceased to watch the approach through the winding street , and after two hours the carriage came for her at last . 
She had to sit very forward to avoid crushing the Miss Brownings ' new dresses ; and yet not too forward , for fear of incommoding fat Mrs. Goodenough and her niece , who occupied the front seat of the carriage ; so that altogether the fact of sitting down at all was rather doubtful , and to add to her discomfort , Molly felt herself to be very conspicuously placed in the centre of the carriage , a mark for all the observation of Hollingford . 
It was very awful , as Molly thought , and she half wished herself at home again . 
But she lost all consciousness of herself by-and-by when the party strolled out into the beautiful grounds , the like of which she had never even imagined . 
Green velvet lawns , bathed in sunshine , stretched away on every side into the finely wooded park ; if there were divisions and ha-has between the soft sunny sweeps of grass , and the dark gloom of the forest-trees beyond , Molly did not see them ; and the melting away of exquisite cultivation into the wilderness had an inexplicable charm to her . 
Molly held Miss Browning 's hand very tight as they loitered about in company with several other ladies , and marshalled by a daughter of the Towers , who seemed half amused at the voluble admiration showered down upon every possible thing and place . 
Molly said nothing , as became her age and position , but every now and then she relieved her full heart by drawing a deep breath , almost like a sigh . 
Molly did not care for this half so much as for the flowers in the open air ; but Lady Agnes had a more scientific taste , she expatiated on the rarity of this plant , and the mode of cultivation required by that , till Molly began to feel very tired , and then very faint . 
She was too shy to speak for some time ; but at length , afraid of making a greater sensation if she began to cry , or if she fell against the stands of precious flowers , she caught at Miss Browning 's hand , and gasped out -- `` May I go back , out into the garden ? 
She turned hastily round not to lose another word of Lady Agnes ' lecture on orchids , and Molly turned back and passed out of the heated atmosphere . 
She felt better in the fresh air ; and unobserved , and at liberty , went from one lovely spot to another , now in the open park , now in some shut-in flower-garden , where the song of the birds , and the drip of the central fountain , were the only sounds , and the tree-tops made an enclosing circle in the blue June sky ; she went along without more thought as to her whereabouts than a butterfly has , as it skims from flower to flower , till at length she grew very weary , and wished to return to the house , but did not know how , and felt afraid of encountering all the strangers who would be there , unprotected by either of the Miss Brownings . 
There was a rustic seat in the shadow , and weary Molly sate down there , and presently fell asleep . 
She was startled from her slumbers after a time , and jumped to her feet . 
Two ladies were standing by her , talking about her . 
They were perfect strangers to her , and with a vague conviction that she had done something wrong , and also because she was worn-out with hunger , fatigue , and the morning 's excitement , she began to cry . 
She has lost herself ; she belongs to some of the people from Hollingford , I have no doubt , '' said the oldest-looking of the two ladies ; she who appeared to be about forty , though she did not really number more than thirty years . 
She was plain-featured , and had rather a severe expression on her face ; her dress was as rich as any morning dress could be ; her voice deep and unmodulated , -- what in a lower rank of life would have been called gruff ; but that was not a word to apply to Lady Cuxhaven , the eldest daughter of the earl and countess . 
The other lady looked much younger , but she was in fact some years the elder ; at first sight Molly thought she was the most beautiful person she had ever seen , and she was certainly a very lovely woman . 
Her voice , too , was soft and plaintive , as she replied to Lady Cuxhaven , -- `` Poor little darling ! 
Molly now found voice to say -- `` I am Molly Gibson , please . 
I came here with Miss Brownings ; '' for her great fear was that she should be taken for an unauthorized intruder . 
I saw she had a number of people in tow ; '' then looking again at Molly , she said , `` Have you had anything to eat , child , since you came ? 
`` I have had nothing to eat , '' said Molly , rather piteously ; for , indeed , before she fell asleep she had been very hungry . 
The two ladies spoke to each other in a low voice ; then the elder said in a voice of authority , which , indeed , she had always used in speaking to the other , `` Sit still here , my dear ; we are going to the house , and Clare shall bring you something to eat before you try to walk back ; it must be a quarter of a mile at least . '' 
So they went away , and Molly sat upright , waiting for the promised messenger . 
She did not know who Clare might be , and she did not care much for food now ; but she felt as if she could not walk without some help . 
Molly put out her trembling little hand for the water ; but she was too faint to hold it . 
`` My head aches so , '' said Molly , lifting her heavy eyes wistfully . 
Molly felt very guilty and very unhappy . 
Molly did as she was bid , and leant back , picking languidly at the grapes , and watching the good appetite with which the lady ate up the chicken and jelly , and drank the glass of wine . 
So they set off , Clare carrying the empty tray , rather to Molly 's shame ; but the child had enough work to drag herself along , and was afraid of offering to do anything more . 
Molly could not help wishing that her pretty companion would have told Lady Cuxhaven that she herself had helped to finish up the ample luncheon ; but no such idea seemed to come into her mind . 
Molly saw Lady Cuxhaven say something in a half-laughing manner to `` Clare , '' as she passed her ; and the child could not keep from tormenting herself by fancying that the words spoken sounded wonderfully like `` Over-eaten herself , I suspect . '' 
However , she felt too poorly to worry herself long ; the little white bed in the cool and pretty room had too many attractions for her aching head . 
As she was going away Molly roused herself to say , `` Please , ma'am , do n't let them go away without me . 
`` Do n't trouble yourself about it , dear ; I 'll take care , '' said Clare , turning round at the door , and kissing her hand to little anxious Molly . 
And then she went away , and thought no more about it . 
Each thought that Molly Gibson was with the other , and the truth was , that she lay fast asleep on Mrs. Kirkpatrick 's bed -- Mrs. Kirkpatrick née Clare . 
Their talking aroused Molly , who sat up on the bed , and tried to push back the hair from her hot forehead , and to remember where she was . 
She dropped down on her feet by the side of the bed , to the astonishment of the women , and said , -- `` Please , how soon are we going away ? '' 
Mrs. Kirkpatrick opened the door , and stood aghast at the sight of Molly . 
she said at length . 
sobbed out Molly . 
During this speech she was arranging her toilette for dinner -- taking off her black morning gown ; putting on her dressing-gown ; shaking her long soft auburn hair over her shoulders , and glancing about the room in search of various articles of her dress , -- a running flow of easy talk came babbling out all the time . 
Molly -- only child as she was -- had stopped her tears at the mention of that little girl of Mrs. Kirkpatrick 's , and now she ventured to say , -- `` Are you married , ma'am ; I thought she called you Clare ? '' 
''' continued Molly , finding her so affable and communicative . 
asked Molly . 
Gibson ? -RRB- 
Nanny 's face brightened out of its gloom when she heard the name Gibson ; and , having ascertained from Molly that she was `` the doctor 's '' child , she showed more willingness to comply with Mrs. Kirkpatrick 's request than was usual with her . 
Molly was an obliging girl , and fond of children ; so , as long as she was in the nursery , she got on pretty well , being obedient to the wishes of the supreme power , and even very useful to Mrs. Dyson , by playing at tricks , and thus keeping a little one quiet while its brothers and sisters were being arrayed in gay attire , -- lace and muslin , and velvet , and brilliant broad ribbons . 
Each dainty little child ran up to its mother , or aunt , or particular friend ; but Molly had no one to go to . 
The lady addressed put up her glass , gazed at Molly , and dropped it in an instant . 
And the speaker , who sate next to Lord Cumnor , made a little sign to Molly to come to her ; Molly crept up to her as to the first shelter ; but when the lady began talking to her in French , she blushed violently , and said in a very low voice , -- `` I do n't understand French . 
I 'm only Molly Gibson , ma'am . '' 
`` Molly Gibson ! '' 
He imitated the deep voice of the fabulous bear , who asks this question of the little child in the story ; but Molly had never read the `` Three Bears , '' and fancied that his anger was real ; she trembled a little , and drew nearer to the kind lady who had beckoned her as to a refuge . 
Lord Cumnor was very fond of getting hold of what he fancied was a joke , and working his idea threadbare ; so all the time the ladies were in the room he kept on his running fire at Molly , alluding to the Sleeping Beauty , the Seven Sleepers , and any other famous sleeper that came into his head . 
If Molly had been in the habit of putting two and two together , she might have found an excuse for herself , by remembering that Mrs. Kirkpatrick had promised faithfully to awaken her in time ; but all the girl thought of was , how little they wanted her in this grand house ; how she must seem like a careless intruder who had no business there . 
said Lady Cumnor , looking very stern , as Molly thought . 
There was an implied blame running through this speech , that Molly felt like needle-points all over her . 
Her tone was as deep , her manner of speaking as abrupt and authoritative , as her mother 's , but Molly felt the kinder nature underneath . 
Mrs. Kirkpatrick came gliding up to the place where Molly stood ; and began petting her with pretty words and actions , while Lady Cuxhaven turned over heavy volumes in search of one that might interest the girl . 
Molly grew hotter and hotter as these last words met her ear . 
If they would only leave her alone , and not labour at being kind to her ; would `` not trouble themselves '' about her ! 
These words of Mrs. Kirkpatrick 's seemed to quench the gratitude she was feeling to Lady Cuxhaven for looking for something to amuse her . 
By-and-by , Mrs. Kirkpatrick was called away to accompany Lady Agnes ' song ; and then Molly really had a few minutes ' enjoyment . 
She could look round the room , unobserved , and , sure , never was any place out of a king 's house so grand and magnificent . 
Suddenly Molly bethought her of the children whom she had accompanied into the dining-room , and to whose ranks she had appeared to belong , -- where were they ? 
Molly wondered if she might go , too -- if she could ever find her , way back to the haven of Mrs. Kirkpatrick 's bedroom . 
So Molly sate on , turning over pictures which she did not see ; her heart growing heavier and heavier in the desolation of all this grandeur . 
She came now towards Molly , in her corner , and said to her , -- `` Do you know , darling , your papa has come for you , and brought your pony for you to ride home ; so I shall lose my little bedfellow , for I suppose you must go . '' 
was there a question of it in Molly 's mind , as she stood up quivering , sparkling , almost crying out loud . 
She was brought to her senses , though , by Mrs. Kirkpatrick 's next words . 
asked Molly , in the most pitiful and pleading voice possible . 
Molly stood still for a minute , then , looking up , she said , softly , -- `` Would you mind coming with me , please ? '' 
said Mrs. Kirkpatrick , seeing that her compliance was likely to be the most speedy way of getting through the affair ; so she took Molly 's hand , and , on the way , in passing the group at the piano , she said , smiling , in her pretty genteel manner , -- `` Our little friend here is shy and modest , and wants me to accompany her to Lady Cumnor to wish good-night ; her father has come for her , and she is going away . '' 
Molly did not know how it was afterwards , but she pulled her hand out of Mrs. Kirkpatrick 's on hearing these words , and going a step or two in advance came up to Lady Cumnor , grand in purple velvet , and dropping a curtsey , almost after the fashion of the school-children , she said , -- `` My lady , papa is come , and I am going away ; and , my lady , I wish you good-night , and thank you for your kindness . 
Mr. Gibson was in the housekeeper 's room , when Molly ran in , rather to the stately Mrs. Brown 's discomfiture . 
She threw her arms round her father 's neck . 
I am so glad you have come ; '' and then she burst out crying , stroking his face almost hysterically as if to make sure he was there . 
`` Why , what a noodle you are , Molly ! 
Did you think I was going to give up my little girl to live at the Towers all the rest of her life ? 
He did not mention that he had come home from a long round not half an hour before , a round from which he had returned dinnerless and hungry ; but , on finding that Molly had not come back from the Towers , he had ridden his tired horse round by Miss Brownings ' , and found them in self-reproachful , helpless dismay . 
He would not wait to listen to their tearful apologies ; he galloped home , had a fresh horse and Molly 's pony saddled , and though Betty called after him with a riding-skirt for the child , when he was not ten yards from his own stable-door , he refused to turn back for it , but went off , as Dick the stableman said , `` muttering to himself awful . '' 
Mrs. Brown had her bottle of wine out , and her plate of cake , before Molly came back from her long expedition to Mrs. Kirkpatrick 's room , `` pretty nigh on to a quarter of a mile off , '' as the housekeeper informed the impatient father , as he waited for his child to come down arrayed in her morning 's finery with the gloss of newness worn off . 
She even went out into the stable-yard to pin Molly up in the shawl , as she sate upon the rough-coated pony , and hazarded the somewhat safe conjecture , -- `` I daresay she 'll be happier at home , Mr. Gibson , '' as they rode away . 
Once out into the park Molly struck her pony , and urged him on as hard as he would go . 
Mr. Gibson called out at last : `` Molly ! 
And as she drew rein he rode up alongside of her . 
And again , after a pause , she said , -- `` Oh , I am so glad to be here ! 
He rode close up alongside of her : he was not sure but what she might be afraid of riding in the dark shadows , so he laid his hand upon hers . 
the jam-cupboards and dessert would lie very conveniently to one 's hand , '' replied her father , meditatively . 
I suppose so , '' said Molly , gravely . 
On the contrary , they were rather boisterously merry at the wedding , and poor Mrs. Gibson it was that died of consumption , four or five years after her marriage -- three years after the death of her great-uncle , and when her only child , Molly , was just three years old . 
He was a widower , and likely to remain so ; his domestic affections were centred on little Molly , but even to her , in their most private moments , he did not give way to much expression of his feelings ; his most caressing appellation for her was `` Goosey , '' and he took a pleasure in bewildering her infant mind with his badinage . 
Molly , however , had her own intuitions to guide her . 
Though her papa laughed at her , quizzed her , joked at her , in a way which the Miss Brownings called `` really cruel '' to each other when they were quite alone , Molly took her little griefs and pleasures , and poured them into her papa 's ears , sooner even than into Betty 's , that kind-hearted termagant . 
They had their meals with Mr. Gibson and Molly , and were felt to be terribly in the way ; Mr. Gibson not being a man who could make conversation , and hating the duty of talking under restraint . 
Once or twice Mr. Gibson had declined taking a fresh pupil , in the hopes of shaking himself free from the incubus , but his reputation as a clever surgeon had spread so rapidly that his fees which he had thought prohibitory , were willingly paid , in order that the young man might make a start in life , with the prestige of having been a pupil of Gibson of Hollingford . 
But as Molly grew to be a little girl instead of a child , when she was about eight years old , her father perceived the awkwardness of her having her breakfasts and dinners so often alone with the pupils , without his uncertain presence . 
To do away with this evil , more than for the actual instruction she could give , he engaged a respectable woman , the daughter of a shopkeeper in the town , who had left a destitute family , to come every morning before breakfast , and to stay with Molly till he came home at night ; or , if he was detained , until the child 's bedtime . 
`` Now , Miss Eyre , '' said he , summing up his instructions the day before she entered upon her office , `` remember this : you are to make good tea for the young men , and see that they have their meals comfortably , and -- you are five-and-thirty , I think you said ? 
Do n't teach Molly too much : she must sew , and read , and write , and do her sums ; but I want to keep her a child , and if I find more learning desirable for her , I 'll see about giving it to her myself . 
She taught Molly to read and write , but tried honestly to keep her back in every other branch of education . 
It was only by fighting and struggling hard , that bit by bit Molly persuaded her father to let her have French and drawing lessons . 
He was always afraid of her becoming too much educated , though he need not have been alarmed ; the masters who visited such small country towns as Hollingford forty years ago , were no such great proficients in their arts . 
Once a week she joined a dancing class in the assembly-room at the principal inn in the town : the `` Cumnor Arms ; '' and , being daunted by her father in every intellectual attempt , she read every book that came in her way , almost with as much delight as if it had been forbidden . 
For his station in life , Mr. Gibson had an unusually good library ; the medical portion of it was inaccessible to Molly , being kept in the surgery , but every other book she had either read , or tried to read . 
Her summer place of study was that seat in the cherry-tree , where she got the green stains on her frock , that have already been mentioned as likely to wear Betty 's life out . 
But very early in the day Molly perceived their injustice , and soon afterwards she began to respect Miss Eyre for her silent endurance of what evidently gave her far more pain than Betty imagined . 
Betty would offer Molly all sorts of small temptations to neglect Miss Eyre 's wishes ; Molly steadily resisted , and plodded away at her task of sewing or her difficult sum . 
Molly looked up with the utmost gravity , as if requesting the explanation of an unintelligible speech ; and there is nothing so quenching to a wag as to be asked to translate his jest into plain matter-of-fact English , and to show wherein the point lies . 
Occasionally Betty lost her temper entirely , and spoke impertinently to Miss Eyre ; but when this had been done in Molly 's defence , the girl flew out in such a violent passion of words in defence of her silent trembling governess , that even Betty herself was daunted , though she chose to take the child 's anger as a good joke , and tried to persuade Miss Eyre herself to join in her amusement . 
But the poor governess saw no humour in the affair ; the comparison of Molly to a hen-sparrow was lost upon her . 
She was sensitive and conscientious , and knew , from home experience , the evils of an ungovernable temper . 
So she began to reprove Molly for giving way to her passion , and the child thought it hard to be blamed for what she considered her just anger against Betty . 
Molly grew up among these quiet people in calm monotony of life , without any greater event than that which has been recorded , -- the being left behind at the Towers -- until she was nearly seventeen . 
She had become a visitor at the school , but she had never gone again to the annual festival at the great house ; it was easy to find some excuse for keeping away , and the recollection of that day was not a pleasant one on the whole , though she often thought how much she should like to see the gardens again . 
`` Use my purse as freely as if it was your own , Gibson , '' he was wont to say . 
One of Mrs. Hamley 's often-expressed wishes had been , that Molly might come and pay her a visit . 
He thought her lessons and her regular course of employment would be interrupted . 
The life in Mrs. Hamley 's heated and scented room would not be good for the girl ; Osborne and Roger Hamley would be at home , and he did not wish Molly to be thrown too exclusively upon them for young society ; or they would not be at home , and it would be rather dull and depressing for his girl to be all the day long with a nervous invalid . 
But at length the day came when Mr. Gibson rode over , and volunteered a visit from Molly ; an offer which Mrs. Hamley received with the `` open arms of her heart , '' as she expressed it ; and of which the duration was unspecified . 
You 'd go and be poisoning all the paupers off , if you had n't been told that murder was a crime by your mother ; you 'd be thinking you were doing as you were bid , and quote old Gibson 's words when you came to be tried . 
`` Molly , my dear ! '' 
I did not know you were at home , '' said innocent , wondering Molly . 
Molly took the note , but before she could open it , her father said , -- `` That 's all , my dear ; you need not read it . 
She went a little reluctantly , with ungratified curiosity , upstairs to Miss Eyre , who was still her daily companion , if not her governess . 
R. Gibson , Ch . 
Sooner or later Molly would become aware of it . 
He did not follow Molly and Miss Eyre into the drawing-room as he usually did . 
Molly has no mother , and for that very reason she ought to move among you all , as unharmed as Una herself . '' 
Nothing could be pleasanter , and so Molly 's visit to Hamley was easily settled . 
Mr. Gibson was very glad in his heart that the young men of the house were out of the way ; he did not want his little Molly to be passing from Scylla to Charybdis ; and , as he afterwards scoffed at himself for thinking , he had got an idea that all young men were wolves in chase of his one ewe-lamb . 
It would never do for him to fall in love with Gibson 's daughter -- I should not allow it . 
Mr. Gibson thought that he had settled everything about Molly 's going to Hamley before he spoke to her about it , which he did not do , until the morning of the day on which Mrs. Hamley expected her . 
Then he said , -- `` By the way , Molly ! 
`` There is a reason , Molly , and one which I do not wish to give . 
said Molly , in some despair . 
I never had anything from her in my life , '' replied Molly , in some surprise ; for Miss Rose was the great dressmaker and milliner of the little town , and hitherto Betty had made the girl 's frocks . 
Miss Rose 's ready-made resources and Molly 's taste combined , did not arrive at a very great success . 
She bought a lilac print , because it would wash , and would be cool and pleasant for the mornings ; and this Betty could make at home before Saturday . 
And for high-days and holidays -- by which was understood afternoons and Sundays -- Miss Rose persuaded her to order a gay-coloured flimsy plaid silk , which she assured her was quite the latest fashion in London , and which Molly thought would please her father 's Scotch blood . 
But when he saw the scrap which she had brought home as a pattern , he cried out that the plaid belonged to no clan in existence , and that Molly ought to have known this by instinct . 
It was too late to change it , however , for Miss Rose had promised to cut the dress out as soon as Molly left her shop . 
Presently he began to hum the air out of the `` Beggar 's Opera '' -- Of course the news of Miss Gibson 's approaching departure had spread through the household before the one o'clock dinner-time came ; and Mr. Coxe 's dismal countenance was a source of much inward irritation to Mr. Gibson , who kept giving the youth sharp glances of savage reproof for his melancholy face , and want of appetite ; which he trotted out , with a good deal of sad ostentation ; all of which was lost upon Molly , who was too full of her own personal concerns to have any thought or observation to spare from them , excepting once or twice when she thought of the many days that must pass over before she should again sit down to dinner with her father . 
When she named this to him after the meal was done , and they were sitting together in the drawing-room , waiting for the sound of the wheels of the Hamley carriage , he laughed , and said , -- `` I 'm coming over to-morrow to see Mrs. Hamley ; and I daresay I shall dine at their lunch ; so you wo n't have to wait long before you 've the treat of seeing the wild beast feed . '' 
`` Oh , papa , '' said Molly , catching at his hand , `` I do so wish I was not going , now that the time is come . '' 
Molly cried a little , but checked her tears as soon as she remembered how annoyed her father would have been at the sight of them . 
It was very pleasant driving quickly along in the luxurious carriage , through the pretty green lanes , with dog-roses and honeysuckles so plentiful and fresh in the hedges , that she once or twice was tempted to ask the coachman to stop till she had gathered a nosegay . 
She began to dread the end of her little journey of seven miles ; the only drawback to which was , that her silk was not a true clan-tartan , and a little uncertainty as to Miss Rose 's punctuality . 
Molly had long passed the limit of her rides , but she knew this must be the village of Hamley , and they must be very near to the hall . 
There had been no footman sent with the carriage , but a respectable servant stood at the door , even before they drew up , ready to receive the expected visitor , and take her into the drawing-room where his mistress lay awaiting her . 
Mrs. Hamley rose from her sofa to give Molly a gentle welcome ; she kept the girl 's hand in hers after she had finished speaking , looking into her face , as if studying it , and unconscious of the faint blush she called up on the otherwise colourless cheeks . 
`` I think we shall be great friends , '' said she , at length . 
It was far easier to be active than passive during this process of `` swearing eternal friendship , '' and Molly willingly kissed the sweet pale face held up to her . 
`` Very , '' said Molly , with shy conciseness . 
Molly 's bedroom opened out of Mrs. Hamley 's private sitting-room ; on the other side of which was her own bedroom . 
She showed Molly this easy means of communication , and then , telling her visitor she would await her in the sitting-room , she closed the door , and Molly was left at leisure to make acquaintance with her surroundings . 
First of all , she went to the window to see what was to be seen . 
A flower-garden right below ; a meadow of ripe grass just beyond , changing colour in long sweeps , as the soft wind blew over it ; great old forest-trees a little on one side ; and , beyond them again , to be seen only by standing very close to the side of the window-sill , or by putting her head out , if the window was open , the silver shimmer of a mere , about a quarter of a mile off . 
Listening to these sounds , which enhanced the exquisite sense of stillness , and puzzling out objects obscured by distance or shadow , Molly forgot herself , and was suddenly startled into a sense of the present by a sound of voices in the next room -- some servant or other speaking to Mrs. Hamley . 
Molly hurried to unpack her box , and arrange her few clothes in the pretty old-fashioned chest of drawers , which was to serve her as dressing-table as well . 
Molly laid out her white gown -LRB- of last year 's date and size -RRB- upon the bed , ready for the -LRB- to her new -RRB- operation of dressing for dinner , and having arranged her hair and dress , and taken out her company worsted-work , she opened the door softly , and saw Mrs. Hamley lying on the sofa . 
`` I shall like it very much , '' replied Molly . 
`` It depends upon the kind of book , '' said Molly . 
said Mrs. Hamley , almost interrupting Molly . 
Molly was not so much absorbed in listening but that she could glance round the room . 
The character of the furniture was much the same as in her own . 
She thought she could make out that one of them was a likeness of Mrs. Hamley , in her beautiful youth . 
When the reading of the poem was ended , Mrs. Hamley replied to some of Molly 's words of admiration , by saying . 
Molly looked up with eager interest . 
Molly turned round , and saw one of the crayon sketches -- representing two boys , in the most youthful kind of jackets and trousers , and falling collars . 
The younger was standing by him , and evidently trying to call the attention of the reader off to some object out of doors -- out of the window of the very room in which they were sitting , as Molly discovered when she began to recognize the articles of furniture faintly indicated in the picture . 
said Molly . 
`` Certainly , '' said Mrs. Hamley , as soon as she understood what Molly meant . 
Molly tried to find out in the picture the characteristics of the two boys , as they were now explained to her by their mother ; and in questions and answers about the various drawings hung round the room the time passed away until the dressing-bell rang for the six o'clock dinner . 
Molly was rather dismayed by the offers of the maid whom Mrs. Hamley had sent to assist her . 
`` I do n't think I am pretty , '' though Molly , as she turned away from the glass ; `` and yet I am not sure . '' 
She would have been sure , if , instead of inspecting herself with such solemnity , she had smiled her own sweet merry smile , and called out the gleam of her teeth , and the charm of her dimples . 
She found her way downstairs into the drawing-room in good time ; she could look about her , and learn how to feel at home in her new quarters . 
Then , suddenly remembering himself , but not before Molly had begun to feel very hot , he said -- `` Why , God bless my soul , I 'd quite forgotten you ; you 're Miss Gibson , Gibson 's daughter , are n't you ? 
By this time , they had met in the middle of the room , and he was shaking Molly 's hand with vehement friendliness , intended to make up for his not knowing her at first . 
He did not stay to wait for her answer , but hastened away to perform his toilette . 
There were so few articles of furniture in it , and the apartment itself was so vast , that Molly longed for the snugness of the home dining-room ; nay , it is to be feared that , before the stately dinner at Hamley Hall came to an end , she even regretted the crowded chairs and tables , the hurry of eating , the quick unformal manner in which everybody seemed to finish their meal as fast as possible , and to return to the work they had left . 
She tried to think that at six o'clock all the business of the day was ended , and that people might linger if they chose . 
She measured the distance from the sideboard to the table with her eye , and made allowances for the men who had to carry things backwards and forwards ; but , all the same , this dinner appeared to her a wearisome business , prolonged because the squire liked it , for Mrs. Hamley seemed tired out . 
She ate even less than Molly , and sent for fan and smelling-bottle to amuse herself with , until at length the table-cloth was cleared away , and the dessert was put upon a mahogany table , polished like a looking-glass . 
Now , however , peeling his orange , he turned to Molly -- `` To-morrow , you 'll have to do this for me , Miss Gibson . '' 
`` I shall like that , '' said Molly . 
`` My name is Molly . 
But papa likes Molly . '' 
`` Well , I must say I think Mary is prettier than Molly , and quite as old a name , too , '' said Mrs. Hamley . 
`` I think it was , '' said Molly , lowering her voice , and dropping her eyes , `` because mamma was Mary , and I was called Molly while she lived . '' 
`` Ah , poor thing , '' said the squire , not perceiving his wife 's signs to change the subject , `` I remember how sorry every one was when she died ; no one thought she was delicate , she had such a fresh colour , till all at once she popped off , as one may say . '' 
`` It must have been a terrible blow to your father , '' said Mrs. Hamley , seeing that Molly did not know what to answer . 
`` I thought it was nearly four years , '' said Molly . 
Every one thought Gibson would have married again . '' 
`` Hush , '' said Mrs. Hamley , seeing in Molly 's eyes and change of colour how completely this was a new idea to her . 
I do n't believe he ever thought of marrying again , '' said Molly , recurring to the idea , as one does to that of danger which has passed by , without one 's being aware of it . 
Molly went into the drawing-room with Mrs. Hamley , but her thoughts did not change with the room . 
She could not help dwelling on the danger which she fancied she had escaped , and was astonished at her own stupidity at never having imagined such a possibility as her father 's second marriage . 
She felt that she was answering Mrs. Hamley 's remarks in a very unsatisfactory manner . 
Molly looked out of her chamber window -- leaning on the sill , and snuffing up the night odours of the honeysuckle . 
The soft velvet darkness hid everything that was at any distance from her ; although she was as conscious of their presence as if she had seen them . 
`` I think I shall be very happy here , '' was in Molly 's thoughts , as she turned away at length , and began to prepare for bed . 
Before long the squire 's words , relating to her father 's second marriage , came across her , and spoilt the sweet peace of her final thoughts . 
she asked herself . 
Yet the unsatisfied question rankled in her mind , and darted out of ambush to disturb her dreams . 
Mrs. Hamley did not come down to breakfast ; and Molly found out , with a little dismay , that the squire and she were to have it tête-à-tête . 
To-day , however , he was `` on his manners , '' as he afterwards explained to Molly ; and he plunged about , trying to find ground for a conversation . 
Molly 's interests were her father , Miss Eyre , her garden and pony ; in a fainter degree Miss Brownings , the Cumnor Charity School , and the new gown that was to come from Miss Rose 's ; into the midst of which the one great question , `` Who was it that people thought it was possible papa might marry ? '' 
Those in the drawing-room were quite enough to employ Molly ; indeed she was so deep in one of Sir Walter Scott 's novels that she jumped as if she had been shot , when an hour or so after breakfast the squire came to the gravel-path outside one of the windows , and called to ask her if she would like to come out of doors and go about the garden and home-fields with him . 
Molly had been in the very middle of the Bride of Lammermoor , and would gladly have stayed in-doors to finish it , but she felt the squire 's kindness all the same . 
They went in and out of old-fashioned green-houses , over trim lawns , the squire unlocked the great walled kitchen-garden , and went about giving directions to gardeners ; and all the time Molly followed him like a little dog , her mind quite full of `` Ravenswood '' and `` Lucy Ashton . '' 
Molly , too , plucked away her thoughts from the seventeenth century ; and , somehow or other that question , which had so haunted her before , came out of her lips before she was aware -- a literal impromptu , -- `` Who did people think papa would marry ? 
She dropped her voice very soft and low , as she spoke the last words . 
The squire turned round upon her , and looked at her face , he knew not why . 
It was very grave , a little pale , but her steady eyes almost commanded some kind of answer . 
asked breathless Molly . 
Molly muttered something , as if to herself , but the squire might have heard it if he had chosen . 
Molly asked , timidly . 
Now , is n't it a queer quip of Nature , '' continued the squire , turning his honest face towards Molly , as if he was going to impart a new idea to her , `` that I , a Hamley of Hamley , straight in descent from nobody knows where -- the Heptarchy , they say -- What 's the date of the Heptarchy ? '' 
`` I do n't know , '' said Molly , startled at being thus appealed to . 
He walked on , pondering the question of whether he could have given his consent to this impossible marriage ; and after some time , and when Molly had quite forgotten the subject to which he alluded , he broke out with -- `` No ! 
After a while , he thanked Molly for her companionship , with old-fashioned courtesy ; and told her that he thought , by this time , madam would be up and dressed , and glad to have her young visitor with her . 
`` That 's a nice girl of Gibson 's , '' quoth he to himself . 
One had need be on one 's guard as to what one says before her . 
To think of her never having thought of the chance of a stepmother . 
If Squire Hamley had been unable to tell Molly who had ever been thought of as her father 's second wife , fate was all this time preparing an answer of a pretty positive kind to her wondering curiosity . 
But fate is a cunning hussy , and builds up her plans as imperceptibly as a bird builds her nest ; and with much the same kind of unconsidered trifles . 
Miss Eyre had gone with her old mother , and her orphan nephews and nieces , to the sea-side , during Molly 's absence , which was only intended at first to last for a fortnight . 
But she said not a word of any inconvenience to herself ; she only apologized with humble sincerity for her inability to return at the appointed time to her charge in Mr. Gibson 's family ; meekly adding , that perhaps it was as well , for Molly had never had the scarlet fever , and even if Miss Eyre had been able to leave the orphan children to return to her employments , it might not have been a safe or a prudent step . 
Apparently , he forgot Mr. Coxe 's powers of making mischief ; but indeed he might have traced that evil back to the unconscious Molly . 
The martyr-cook 's entrance to take away the breakfast things , which she announced by a heavy sigh , roused Mr. Gibson from thought to action . 
`` Molly must stay a little longer at Hamley , '' he resolved . 
Molly was flitting about her , gardening away under her directions ; tying up the long sea-green stalks of bright budded carnations , snipping off dead roses . 
she cried out , joyfully , as he rode up to the white paling which separated the trim lawn and trimmer flower-garden from the rough park-like ground in front of the house . 
`` We 've got a rose-tree to show you that Molly has budded all by herself . 
Somehow , he rather disliked asking for Molly to prolong her visit ; so he determined to swallow his bitter first , and then take the pleasure of the delicious day , the sweet repose , the murmurous , scented air . 
Molly stood by him , her hand on his shoulder . 
`` Miss Eyre , who has been Molly 's governess , I suppose I must call her -- for many years , writes to-day to say that one of the little nephews she took with her to Newport while Molly was staying here , has caught the scarlet fever . '' 
I beg for dear little Molly to stay on here . 
Of course Miss Eyre ca n't come back to you ; and of course Molly must stay here ! '' 
Molly 's hand stole down to his , and nestled in that firm compact grasp . 
He pulled her round , and looked straight and piercingly into her innocent face . 
Her colour came at his unwonted scrutiny , but her sweet eyes were filled with wonder , rather than with any feeling which he dreaded to find . 
`` Molly , you 're rude to begin with . 
Molly knew him well enough to be certain that the prolongation of her visit at Hamley was quite a decided affair in his mind ; and then she was smitten with a sense of ingratitude . 
She left her father , and went to Mrs. Hamley , and bent over her and kissed her ; but she did not speak . 
We are such happy friends , are not we , Molly ? 
`` -- has given us such a capital reason , I shall keep Molly for a real long visitation . 
`` Mrs. Hamley has found out from whom I get my rudeness , '' said Molly , triumphantly . 
Molly , thou art a woman ! 
`` Please speak for yourself , Mrs. Hamley , '' said Molly , merrily . 
`` She 's a good girl , '' said her father , when she had danced out of hearing . 
It was quite true that the squire had become very fond of Molly . 
And then Molly was so willing and so wise ; ready both to talk and to listen at the right times . 
Mrs. Hamley was quite right in speaking of her husband 's fondness for Molly . 
But either she herself chose a wrong time for telling him of the prolongation of the girl 's visit , or one of the fits of temper to which he was liable , but which he generally strove to check in the presence of his wife , was upon him ; at any rate , he received the news in anything but a gracious frame of mind . 
Did Gibson ask for it ? '' 
I do n't see what else is to become of her ; Miss Eyre away and all . 
`` That 's Gibson 's look-out ; he should have thought of it before taking pupils , or apprentices , or whatever he calls them . '' 
why , I thought you 'd be as glad as I was -- as I am to keep Molly . 
I asked her to stay for an indefinite time ; two months at least . '' 
I 'd sooner speak to Gibson , and tell him he must take his daughter away , for it 's not convenient to us -- '' `` My dear Roger ! 
All that afternoon the squire tried to steer clear of Molly , to whom he felt himself to have been an inhospitable traitor . 
But she was so perfectly unconscious of his shyness of her , and so merry and sweet in her behaviour as a welcome guest , never distrusting him for a moment , however gruff he might be , that by the next morning she had completely won him round , and they were quite on the old terms again . 
Little did Molly apply these expressions to the piece of news Mrs. Hamley told her in the course of the day ; namely , that her son Osborne had received an invitation to stay with a friend in the neighbourhood of Cambridge , and perhaps to make a tour on the Continent with him subsequently ; and that , consequently , he would not accompany his brother when Roger came home . 
Molly was very sympathetic . 
Mrs. Hamley was thankful her husband was not present , Molly spoke the words so heartily . 
Molly was a little puzzled by this speech , but soon , put it out of her head . 
It was a disappointment to her , too , that she should not see this beautiful , brilliant young man , his mother 's hero . 
From time to time her maiden fancy had dwelt upon what he would be like ; how the lovely boy of the picture in Mrs. Hamley 's dressing-room would have changed in the ten years that had elapsed since the likeness was taken ; if he would read poetry aloud ; if he would ever read his own poetry . 
They had not chosen to tell Molly that Osborne 's name had only appeared very low down in the mathematical tripos . 
So all that their visitor knew was that something was out of tune , and she hoped that Roger 's coming home would set it to rights , for it was beyond the power of her small cares and wiles . 
Molly was amused at this testimony to the rights of heirship ; but somehow she herself had fallen into the family manner of thinking that nothing was too great or too good for `` the eldest son . '' 
She had indoctrinated Molly with her faith , and , in spite of her amusement at the housemaid 's speech , the girl visitor would have been as anxious as any one to show her feudal loyalty to the heir , if indeed it had been he that was coming . 
After luncheon , Mrs. Hamley went to rest , in preparation for Roger 's return ; and Molly also retired to her own room , feeling that it would be better for her to remain there until dinner-time , and so to leave the father and mother to receive their boy in privacy . 
She took a book of MS. poems with her ; they were all of Osborne Hamley 's composition ; and his mother had read some of them aloud to her young visitor more than once . 
Molly had asked permission to copy one or two of those which were her greatest favourites ; and this quiet summer afternoon she took this copying for her employment , sitting at the pleasant open window , and losing herself in dreamy out-looks into the gardens and woods , quivering in the noontide heat . 
Distant voices from the far-away fields where they were making hay -- the scent of which came in sudden wafts distinct from that of the nearer roses and honeysuckles -- these merry piping voices just made Molly feel the depth of the present silence . 
She had left off copying , her hand weary with the unusual exertion of so much writing , and she was lazily trying to learn one or two of the poems off by heart . 
I asked of the wind , but answer made it none , Save its accustomed sad and solitary moan -- she kept saying to herself , losing her sense of whatever meaning the words had ever had , in the repetition which had become mechanical . 
So , through the undraperied hollow square of the hall and staircase every sound ascended clear and distinct ; and Molly heard the squire 's glad `` Hallo ! 
here he is , '' and madame 's softer , more plaintive voice ; and then the loud , full , strange tone , which she knew must be Roger 's . 
Molly began again -- I asked of the wind , but answer made it none . 
And this time she had nearly finished learning the poem , when she heard Mrs. Hamley come hastily into her sitting-room that adjoined Molly 's bedroom , and burst out into an irrepressible half-hysterical fit of sobbing . 
Molly was too young to have any complication of motives which should prevent her going at once to try and give what comfort she could . 
In an instant she was kneeling at Mrs. Hamley 's feet , holding the poor lady 's hands , kissing them , murmuring soft words ; which , all unmeaning as they were of aught but sympathy with the untold grief , did Mrs. Hamley good . 
She checked herself , smiling sadly at Molly through the midst of her thick-coming sobs . 
asked Molly , eagerly . 
Molly burst out , -- `` I do n't think Mr. Roger should have told ; he had no need to begin so soon about his brother 's failure . 
So talking out what was in her heart , Mrs. Hamley became more composed ; and at length she dismissed Molly to dress for dinner , with a kiss , saying , -- `` You 're a real blessing to mothers , child ! 
Molly thought over all that she had heard , as she was dressing and putting on the terrible , over-smart plaid gown in honour of the new arrival . 
Her unconscious fealty to Osborne was not in the least shaken by his having come to grief at Cambridge . 
Molly thought that the two were hand in hand when she first opened the door , but she could not be quite sure . 
Mrs. Hamley came a little forwards to meet her , and introduced her in so fondly intimate a way to her son , that Molly , innocent and simple , knowing nothing but Hollingford manners , which were anything but formal , half put out her hand to shake hands with one of whom she had heard so much -- the son of such kind friends . 
She could only hope he had not seen the movement , for he made no attempt to respond to it ; only bowed . 
To Molly , who was not finely discriminative in her glances at the stranger this first night , he simply appeared `` heavy-looking , clumsy , '' and `` a person she was sure she should never get on with . '' 
He only looked upon Molly as a badly-dressed , and rather awkward girl , with black hair and an intelligent face , who might help him in the task he had set himself of keeping up a bright general conversation during the rest of the evening ; might help him -- if she would , but she would not . 
She thought him unfeeling in his talkativeness ; his constant flow of words upon indifferent subjects was a wonder and a repulsion to her . 
Molly sitting near them , and silent herself , heard what they said . 
Molly testified with quiet vehemence of action ; she never took wine , so she need not have been afraid of the man 's pouring it into her glass ; but as an open mark of fealty to the absent Osborne , however little it might be understood , she placed the palm of her small brown hand over the top of the glass , and held it there , till the wine had gone round , and Roger and his father were in full enjoyment of it . 
After dinner , too , the gentlemen lingered long over their dessert , and Molly heard them laughing ; and then she saw them loitering about in the twilight out-of-doors ; Roger hatless , his hands in his pockets , lounging by his father 's side , who was now able to talk in his usual loud and cheerful way , forgetting Osborne . 
And so in mute opposition on Molly 's side , in polite indifference , scarcely verging upon kindliness on his , Roger and she steered clear of each other . 
He had many occupations in which he needed no companionship , even if she had been qualified to give it . 
The worst was , that she found he was in the habit of occupying the library , her favourite retreat , in the mornings before Mrs. Hamley came down . 
Molly would have enjoyed accompanying him on these occasions , for she was very fond of riding ; and there had been some talk of sending for her habit and grey pony when first she came to Hamley ; only the squire , after some consideration , had said he so rarely did more than go slowly from one field to another , where his labourers were at work , that he feared she would find such slow work -- ten minutes riding through heavy land , twenty minutes sitting still on horseback , listening to the directions he should have to give to his men -- rather dull . 
Now , when if she had had her pony here she might have ridden out with Roger , without giving him any trouble -- she would have taken care of that -- nobody seemed to think of renewing the proposal . 
Her father came over pretty frequently ; sometimes there were long unaccountable absences , it was true ; when his daughter began to fidget after him , and to wonder what had become of him . 
I say , my lady , what do you think of Gibson ? 
Consult with Bradley '' -LRB- Lady Cumnor 's `` own woman , '' -- she disliked the new-fangledness of `` lady 's - maid '' -RRB- ; `` and if I were you , I 'd send and ask Gibson to call -- you might make any kind of a pretence , '' -- and then the idea he had had in London of the fitness of a match between the two coming into his head just now , he could not help adding , -- `` Get him to come and see you , he 's a very agreeable man ; Lord Hollingford says there 's no one like him in these parts : and he might be looking at my lady while he was talking to you , and see if he thinks her really ill . 
But the district of which he may be said to have had medical charge was full of a bad kind of low fever , which took up all his time and thought , and often made him very thankful that Molly was out of the way in the quiet shades of Hamley . 
At length Lord Hollingford said suddenly , -- `` Gibson , I wonder if you 'd give me some lunch ; I 've been a good deal about since my seven-o'clock breakfast , and am getting quite ravenous . '' 
Excuse me , Gibson , but we 're talking like friends . 
Mr. Gibson knew that Mrs. Kirkpatrick had one child , a daughter , who must be much about the same age as Molly . 
Of course she had very little , if any , property . 
Once again , in the course of the day , he remembered with a certain pleasure that Molly had told him some little details connected with her unlucky detention at the Towers five or six years ago , which had made him feel at the time as if Mrs. Kirkpatrick had behaved very kindly to his little girl . 
Lady Cumnor read , half aloud , -- `` How are Clare and Gibson getting on ? 
Yesterday he had looked upon her more as a possible stepmother for Molly ; to-day he thought more of her as a wife for himself . 
`` You are quite right , '' said he , recalled to the remembrance of Molly ; `` though I should have thought that a girl who is so fortunate as to have a mother could not feel the loss of her father so acutely as one who is motherless must suffer from her deprivation . '' 
I should like you to love my poor little Molly , -- to love her as your own -- '' He swallowed down something that rose in his throat , and was nearly choking him . 
she wondered ; and she began to tremble in the suspense before he next spoke . 
`` Could you love her as your daughter ? 
She hid her face in her hands . 
Mr. Gibson , '' she said ; and then , a little to his surprise , and a great deal to her own , she burst into hysterical tears : it was such a wonderful relief to feel that she need not struggle any more for a livelihood . 
`` My dear -- my dearest , '' said he , trying to soothe her with word and caress ; but , just at the moment , uncertain what name he ought to use . 
After her sobbing had abated a little , she said herself , as if understanding his difficulty , -- `` Call me Hyacinth -- your own Hyacinth . 
I ought to tell Molly first . 
She has the right to know . 
I do hope you and she will love each other dearly . '' 
When can we arrange for you and Molly to meet ? '' 
`` Her ladyship is awake , and wishes to see Mr. Gibson . '' 
` How are Clare and Gibson getting on ? 
I must tell Molly about it : dear little woman , I wonder how she 'll take it ? 
So it was the next morning before Mr. Gibson arrived at the hall , timing his visit as well as he could so as to have half-an-hour 's private talk with Molly before Mrs. Hamley came down into the drawing-room . 
He went into the house by a private door , and made his way into the drawing-room , half expecting , however , that Molly would be in the garden . 
She had been there , but it was too hot and dazzling now for her to remain out of doors , and she had come in by the open window of the drawing-room . 
Oppressed with the heat , she had fallen asleep in an easy-chair , her bonnet and open book upon her knee , one arm hanging listlessly down . 
She looked very soft , and young , and childlike ; and a gush of love sprang into her father 's heart as he gazed at her . 
`` Molly ! '' 
`` Molly ! '' 
She opened her eyes , that for one moment had no recognition in them . 
Then the light came brilliantly into them and she sprang up , and threw her arms round his neck , exclaiming , -- `` Oh , papa , my dear , dear papa ! 
He still held her hand , and drew her to a seat by him on a sofa , without speaking . 
There was no need ; she was chattering away . 
She pulled her hand away , and used both it and the other to turn her father 's head , so that he should exactly see the very bit she meant . 
She was rather struck by his unusual silence . 
said she ; but her tone was changed , and she was evidently uneasy , as with the presage of an instinct . 
`` Why , you see , my love , '' said he , again taking her hand , `` that you are in a very awkward position -- a girl growing up in such a family as mine -- young men -- which was a piece of confounded stupidity on my part . 
`` But there is Miss Eyre , '' said she , sick with the strengthening indefinite presage of what was to come . 
`` You 're going to be married again , '' said she , helping him out , with a quiet dry voice , and gently drawing her hand out of his . 
She did not answer . 
She could not tell what words to use . 
She was afraid of saying anything , lest the passion of anger , dislike , indignation -- whatever it was that was boiling up in her breast -- should find vent in cries and screams , or worse , in raging words that could never be forgotten . 
It was as if the piece of solid ground on which she stood had broken from the shore , and she was drifting out to the infinite sea alone . 
Mr. Gibson saw that her silence was unnatural , and half-guessed at the cause of it . 
But he knew that she must have time to reconcile herself to the idea , and still believed that it would be for her eventual happiness . 
No remark from her on this little bit of playfulness . 
And last , but not least , she has a daughter -- about your age , Molly -- who , of course , will come and live with us , and be a nice companion -- a sister -- for you . '' 
Still she was silent . 
At length she said , -- `` So I was sent out of the house that all this might be quietly arranged in my absence ? '' 
Out of the bitterness of her heart she spoke , but she was roused out of her assumed impassiveness by the effect produced . 
Her father started up , and quickly left the room , saying something to himself -- what , she could not hear , though she ran after him , followed him through dark stone passages , into the glare of the stable-yard , into the stables -- `` Oh , papa , papa -- I 'm not myself -- I do n't know what to say about this hateful -- detestable -- '' He led his horse out . 
She did not know if he heard her word . 
Just as he mounted , he turned round upon her with a grey grim face -- `` I think it 's better for both of us , for me to go away now . 
Good-by , Molly . '' 
For many minutes after he had ridden away -- long after the sound of his horse 's hoofs on the round stones of the paved lane , beyond the home-meadows , had died away -- Molly stood there , shading her eyes , and looking at the empty space of air in which his form had last appeared . 
Her very breath seemed suspended ; only , two or three times , after long intervals , she drew a miserable sigh , which was caught up into a sob . 
She turned away at last , but could not go into the house , could not tell Mrs. Hamley , could not forget how her father had looked and spoken -- and left her . 
Mrs. Hamley had her own husband , her own children , her close home interests -- she was very good and kind , but there was a bitter grief in Molly 's heart , with which the stranger could not intermeddle . 
She went quickly on to the bourne which she had fixed for herself -- a seat almost surrounded by the drooping leaves of a weeping-ash -- a seat on the long broad terrace walk on the other side of the wood , that overlooked the pleasant slope of the meadows beyond . 
Molly almost thought that no one knew of the hidden seat under the ash-tree but herself ; for there were not more gardeners employed upon the grounds than were necessary to keep the kitchen-gardens and such of the ornamental part as was frequented by the family , or in sight of the house , in good order . 
When she had once got to the seat she broke out with suppressed passion of grief . 
She did not care to analyze the sources of her tears and sobs -- her father was going to be married again -- her father was angry with her ; she had done very wrong -- he had gone away displeased ; she had lost his love ; he was going to be married -- away from her -- away from his child -- his little daughter -- forgetting her own dear , dear mother . 
So she thought in a tumultuous kind of way , sobbing till she was wearied out , and had to gain strength by being quiet for a time , to break forth into her passion of tears afresh . 
She had cast herself on the ground -- that natural throne for violent sorrow -- and leant up against the old moss-grown seat ; sometimes burying her face in her hands ; sometimes clasping them together , as if by the tight painful grasp of her fingers she could deaden mental suffering . 
She did not see Roger Hamley returning from the meadows , nor hear the click of the little white gate . 
He did not see Molly as he crossed the terrace-walk on his way homewards . 
`` It seems as if there might be cases where -- setting the question of love entirely on one side -- it must be almost a duty to find some one to be a substitute for the mother ... I can believe , '' said he , in a different tone of voice , and looking at Molly afresh , `` that this step may be greatly for your father 's happiness -- it may relieve him from many cares , and may give him a pleasant companion . '' 
Yet she was interested in this little story of Harriet -- a girl who had been so much to her father , more than Molly in this early youth of hers could have been to Mr. Gibson . 
Molly needed the bracing . 
She began to cry again a little . 
`` I do n't think she is , though , '' murmured Molly , a waft of recollection bringing to her mind the details of her day at the Towers long ago . 
Roger did not want to hear Molly 's reasons for this doubting speech . 
Where is Molly ? 
Poor little Molly ! '' 
To their surprise , Molly came in , trying hard to look as usual . 
She had bathed her eyes , and arranged her hair ; and was making a great struggle to keep from crying , and to bring her voice into order . 
She was unwilling to distress Mrs. Hamley by the sight of pain and suffering . 
Molly tried to speak of her future stepmother in the most favourable manner she knew how . 
Molly was very near crying again . 
As soon as he was gone , Molly lifted up her poor swelled eyes , and , looking at Mrs. Hamley , she said , -- `` He was so good to me . 
Unreasonably and possibly exaggerated as Molly 's grief had appeared to him , it was real suffering to her ; and he took some pains to lighten it , in his own way , which was characteristic enough . 
Of course Molly came too , and this was what he had intended . 
He tried to interest her in his pursuit , cherished her first little morsel of curiosity , and nursed it into a very proper desire for further information . 
Molly had come down to dinner , wondering how the long hours till bedtime would ever pass away : hours during which she must not speak on the one thing that would be occupying her mind to the exclusion of all others ; for she was afraid that already she had wearied Mrs. Hamley with it during their afternoon tête-à-tête . 
I know my little Molly -- my silly little goosey -- better than she knows herself . 
said Molly , entirely bewildered . 
asked Molly , feeling as if she were living in a strange , unknown world . 
I 'm thankful you 're plain Molly , child . '' 
`` How old is she -- Cynthia , I mean ? '' 
So although in the conversation , which she had already led to , as to the when and the how she was to be married , she had listened quietly to Mr. Gibson 's proposal that Molly and Cynthia should be the two bridesmaids , still she had felt how disagreeable it would be to her to have her young daughter flashing out her beauty by the side of the faded bride , her mother ; and as the further arrangements for the wedding became more definite , she saw further reasons in her own mind for Cynthia 's remaining quietly at her school at Boulogne . 
Though he really was at a serious loss as to what was to become of Molly until she could be under the protection of his new wife at her own home , and though his domestic worries teased him more and more every day , he was too honourable to think of persuading Mrs. Kirkpatrick to give up school a week sooner than was right for his sake . 
`` I can hardly tell you what a comfort and relief it will be to me , Hyacinth , when you are once my wife -- the mistress of my home -- poor little Molly 's mother and protector ; but I would n't interfere with your previous engagements for the world . 
`` I long to be making you happy ; I want to make your home a place of rest and comfort to you ; and I do so wish to cherish your sweet Molly , as I hope to do , when I come to be her mother . 
I told her I was afraid you would n't like waiting , because of your difficulties with your servants , and because of Molly -- it would be so desirable to enter on the new relationship with her as soon as possible . '' 
She and Molly shall be bridesmaids , '' said Mr. Gibson , in the unguarded warmth of his heart . 
It is a question whether Mrs. Kirkpatrick or Molly wished the most for the day to be over which they were to spend together at the Towers . 
Nevertheless , with all her dislike to girls in the abstract as `` the plagues of her life '' -LRB- and her aversion was not diminished by the fact of her having kept a school for `` young ladies '' at Ashcombe -RRB- , she really meant to be as kind as she could be to her new step-daughter , whom she remembered principally as a black-haired , sleepy child , in whose eyes she had read admiration of herself . 
Molly was bracing herself up in her way too . 
I wo n't think of myself , '' she kept repeating all the way to the Towers . 
But there was no selfishness in wishing that the day was come to an end , and that she did very heartily . 
Mrs. Hamley wanted Molly to make a favourable impression , and she sent for her to come and show herself before she set out . 
` Anything but that horrid plaid silk ' was the thought in Mrs. Hamley 's mind ; and , thanks to her , Molly set off for the Towers , looking a little quaint , it is true , but thoroughly lady-like , if she was old-fashioned . 
Her father was to meet her there ; but he had been detained , and she had to face Mrs. Kirkpatrick by herself , the recollection of her last day of misery at the Towers fresh in her mind as if it had been yesterday . 
She held Molly 's hand in hers , as they sate together in the library , after the first salutations were over . 
`` I 'll try , '' said Molly , bravely ; and then she could not finish her sentence . 
said Mrs. Kirkpatrick , softly lifting one of Molly 's curls from off her white temple . 
`` Papa 's hair is growing grey , '' said Molly . 
Mr. Gibson was really a very handsome man , and Molly was pleased with the compliment ; but she could not help saying , -- `` Still he will grow old , and his hair will grow grey . 
Molly 's colour flashed into her face . 
She did not want an assurance of her own father 's love from this strange woman . 
She could not help being angry ; all she could do was to keep silent . 
Molly took her hand away , and her heart began to harden ; these speeches were so discordant to her . 
But she set her teeth together , and `` tried to be good . '' 
You must tell me , '' seeing the cloud in Molly 's eyes , `` what he likes and dislikes , for of course you will know . '' 
Molly 's face cleared a little ; of course she did know . 
She had not watched and loved him so long without believing that she understood him better than any one else : though how he had come to like Mrs. Kirkpatrick enough to wish to marry her , was an unsolved problem that she unconsciously put aside as inexplicable . 
Molly was gratified by all this , and began to think that really , after all , perhaps her father had done well for himself ; and that if she could help towards his new happiness , she ought to do it . 
So she tried very conscientiously to think over Mr. Gibson 's wishes and ways ; to ponder over what annoyed him the most in his household . 
`` I think , '' said she , `` papa is n't particular about many things ; but I think our not having the dinner quite punctual -- quite ready for him when he comes in , fidgets him more than anything . 
`` Yes ; he 's very fond of it , '' said Molly , innocently . 
`` Papa is very fond of it , '' persevered Molly . 
Molly was silent ; it did not do , she found , to be too minute in telling about her father 's likes or dislikes . 
She had better leave them for Mrs. Kirkpatrick to find out for herself . 
Molly spoke at length . 
`` I hope so , '' said Molly . 
she went on timidly , not knowing how far Mrs. Kirkpatrick would like the allusion to her marriage . 
But I like the dark-haired foreign kind of beauty best -- just now , '' touching Molly 's hair , and looking at her with an expression of sentimental remembrance . 
asked Molly , a little afraid lest the answer should remove Miss Kirkpatrick at too great a distance from her . 
Molly followed Mrs. Kirkpatrick into the morning-room , where Lady Cumnor was sitting -- a little annoyed , because , having completed her toilette earlier than usual , Clare had not been aware by instinct of the fact , and so had not brought Molly Gibson for inspection a quarter of an hour before . 
Every small occurrence is an event in the day of a convalescent invalid , and a little while ago Molly would have met with patronizing appreciation , where now she had to encounter criticism . 
Molly very heartily hoped that she might never be known any better by the stern-looking lady who sate so uprightly in the easy chair , prepared for lounging , and which therefore gave all the more effect to the stiff attitude . 
Lady Cumnor luckily took Molly 's silence for acquiescent humility , and went on speaking after a further little pause of inspection . 
-- a sudden thought striking her , -- `` you and she must become better acquainted -- you know nothing of each other at present ; you are not to be married till Christmas , and what could be better than that she should go back with you to Ashcombe ! 
If Molly came to be an inmate of her house , farewell to many little background economies , and a still more serious farewell to many little indulgences , that were innocent enough in themselves , but which Mrs. Kirkpatrick 's former life had caused her to look upon as sins to be concealed : the dirty dog 's - eared delightful novel from the Ashcombe circulating library , the leaves of which she turned over with a pair of scissors ; the lounging-chair which she had for use at her own home , straight and upright as she sate now in Lady Cumnor 's presence ; the dainty morsel , savoury and small , to which she treated herself for her own solitary supper , -- all these and many other similarly pleasant things would have to be foregone if Molly came to be her pupil , parlour-boarder , or visitor , as Lady Cumnor was planning . 
One -- two things Clare was instinctively resolved upon : to be married at Michaelmas , and not to have Molly at Ashcombe . 
But she smiled as sweetly as if the plan proposed was the most charming project in the world , while all the time her poor brains were beating about in every bush for the reasons or excuses of which she should make use at some future time . 
Molly , however , saved her all this trouble . 
It was a question which of the three was the most surprised by the words which burst out of her lips . 
She did not mean to speak , but her heart was very full , and almost before she was aware of her thought she heard herself saying , -- `` I do n't think it would be nice at all . 
I will like you , '' she went on , her eyes full of tears ; and , turning to Mrs. Kirkpatrick , she put her hand into her future stepmother 's with the prettiest and most trustful action . 
Clare was , however , exceedingly unwilling to back up Molly by any words of her own until Lady Cumnor had spoken and given the cue . 
But there was something in Molly 's little speech , or in her straightforward manner , that amused instead of irritating Lady Cumnor in her present mood . 
Molly almost felt as if she could make a friend of the stiff old countess , for her clearness of sight as to the plan proposed being a trial ; but she was afraid , in her new-born desire of thinking for others , of Mrs. Kirkpatrick being hurt . 
Lady Cumnor was more interested in Molly the more she looked at her ; and her gaze was pretty steady through her gold-rimmed eye-glasses . 
`` Certainly , my lady , '' replied Molly , a little touchy as to any reflections on her father 's wisdom . 
she went on , lashing herself up . 
Molly did not speak , but it was by a strong effort that she kept silence . 
But the caress had become wearisome to Molly , and only irritated her nerves . 
She took her hand out of Mrs. Kirkpatrick 's , with a slight manifestation of impatience . 
It was the case now ; at Mr. Gibson 's entrance my lady took off her glasses , and smoothed her brow ; Mrs. Kirkpatrick managed to get up a very becoming blush , and as for Molly , her face glowed with delight , and the white teeth and pretty dimples came out like sunlight on a landscape . 
Of course , after the first greeting , my lady had to have a private interview with her doctor ; and Molly and her future stepmother wandered about in the gardens with their arms round each other 's waists , or hand in hand , like two babes in the wood ; Mrs. Kirkpatrick active in such endearments , Molly passive , and feeling within herself very shy and strange ; for she had that particular kind of shy modesty which makes any one uncomfortable at receiving caresses from a person towards whom the heart does not go forth with an impulsive welcome . 
Once or twice during the meal , the idea crossed Molly 's mind that her father disliked his position as a middle-aged lover being made so evident to the men in waiting as it was by Mrs. Kirkpatrick 's affectionate speeches and innuendos . 
An old rhyme Molly had heard Betty use , would keep running in her head and making her uneasy , -- Two is company , Three is trumpery . 
But where could she go to in that strange house ? 
What ought she to do ? 
She was roused from this fit of wonder and abstraction by her father 's saying -- `` What do you think of this plan of Lady Cumnor 's ? 
She says she was advising you to have Molly as a visitor at Ashcombe until we are married . '' 
If only Molly would be so good as to testify again , as she had done before Lady Cumnor ! 
Molly did not say anything ; she only looked pale , and wistful , and anxious . 
I think I must leave her with you , dear Mr. Gibson , for a tête-à-tête for these last few weeks . 
It would be cruel to take her away . '' 
`` But you know , my dear , I told you of the reason why it does not do to have Molly at home just at present , '' said Mr. Gibson , eagerly . 
For the more he knew of his future wife , the more he felt it necessary to remember that , with all her foibles , she would be able to stand between Molly and any such adventures as that which had occurred lately with Mr. Coxe ; so that one of the good reasons for the step he had taken was always present to him , while it had slipped off the smooth surface of Mrs. Kirkpatrick 's mirror-like mind without leaving any impression . 
But what were Molly 's feelings at these last words of her father 's ? 
She had been sent from home for some reason , kept a secret from her , but told to this strange woman . 
But he did notice it ; and was truly sorry for his little girl : only he thought that there was a greater chance for the future harmony of the household , if he did not lead Molly to define her present feelings by putting them into words . 
Yet , when he had to leave , he took Molly 's hand in his , and held it there , in such a different manner to that in which Mrs. Kirkpatrick had done ; and his voice softened to his child as he bade her good-by , and added the words -LRB- most unusual to him -RRB- , `` God bless you , child ! '' 
Molly had held up all the day bravely ; she had not shown anger , or repugnance , or annoyance , or regret ; but when once more by herself in the Hamley carriage , she burst into a passion of tears , and cried her fill till she reached the village of Hamley . 
said Molly , shaking her head . 
There was an unconscious depth in what she said , that Roger did not know how to answer at the moment ; it was easier to address himself to the assertion of the girl of seventeen , that she should never be happy again . 
Molly opened her eyes wide at this . 
Had she been talking metaphysics without knowing it ? 
Mrs. Hamley lay down ; she had not been well all day -- she had missed Molly , she said , -- and now she wanted to hear of all the adventures that had occurred to the girl at the Towers . 
Molly sate on a stool close to the head of the sofa , and Roger , though at first he took up a book and tried to read that he might be no restraint , soon found his reading all a pretence : it was so interesting to listen to Molly 's little narrative , and , besides , if he could give her any help in her time of need , was it not his duty to make himself acquainted with all the circumstances of her case ? 
And so they went on during all the remaining time of Molly 's stay at Hamley . 
He was very sorry for her evident grief , and almost felt guilty , as if he had had a share in bringing it about , by the mention he had made of the possibility of Mr. Gibson 's marrying again , when first Molly came on her visit to them . 
Do you remember how she took them up ? 
And she looked pale from that day , and I do n't think she has ever fairly enjoyed her food since . 
Not but what Gibson is doing the very best thing , both for himself and her , that he can do . 
I told him so only yesterday . 
Now did n't I say what a good , suitable affair this affair between Gibson and Clare would be ! 
`` To think of Molly , as I have held in long-clothes , coming to have a lover ! 
Molly Gibson has got a lover ! 
One may almost say she 's had an offer ! 
-- and she 's but sixteen ! '' 
Now Mr. Gibson came in ; for his story was not half told , and he did not want them to run away too far with the idea of Molly 's love-affair . 
`` Molly knows nothing about it . 
But I was sadly puzzled what to do about Molly . 
`` Well , well , '' said he ; `` at any rate , I thought I must do something to protect Molly from such affairs while she was so young , and before I had given my sanction . 
It does n't signify to what I 've got to say now ; the fact was , Miss Eyre could n't come back to my house for some time , and I can not leave Molly altogether at Hamley . '' 
She has brought up the young ladies at the Towers , and has a daughter of her own , therefore it is probable she will have a kind , motherly feeling towards Molly . '' 
`` She 's a very elegant-looking woman , '' said Miss Phoebe , feeling it incumbent upon her to say something laudatory , by way of concealing the thoughts that had just been passing through her mind . 
`` I 've seen her in the carriage , riding backwards with the countess : a very pretty woman , I should say . '' 
I do n't know any two women in the world , except Molly and Mrs. Kirkpatrick , I regard as much as I do you . 
Besides , I want to ask you if you will let Molly come and stay with you till after my marriage ? '' 
`` We are your old friends ; and we were her mother 's friends , too ; though we are not county folk . '' 
`` About dear little Molly coming to pay us a visit , '' said Miss Phoebe . 
I did n't know what he might do , or how troublesome he might be both to Molly and you . 
Absence has had a very tranquillizing effect , and I think Molly may be in the same town with him , without any consequences beyond a few sighs every time she 's brought to his mind by meeting her . 
Her usual good-humour was quite restored by this proof of confidence in her taste and economy , while Miss Phoebe 's imagination dwelt rather on the pleasure of a visit from Molly . 
The squire had heard that Osborne might probably return home for a few days before going abroad ; and , though the growing intimacy between Roger and Molly did not alarm him in the least , yet he was possessed by a very hearty panic last the heir might take a fancy to the surgeon 's daughter ; and he was in such a fidget for her to leave the house before Osborne came home , that his wife lived in constant terror lest he should make it too obvious to their visitor . 
Such a Pope was Roger to Molly ; she looked to his opinion , to his authority on almost every subject , yet he had only said one or two things in a terse manner which gave them the force of precepts -- stable guides to her conduct -- and had shown the natural superiority in wisdom and knowledge which is sure to exist between a highly educated young man of no common intelligence , and an ignorant girl of seventeen , who yet was well capable of appreciation . 
Molly 's little wavering maiden fancy dwelt on the unseen Osborne , who was now a troubadour , and now a knight , such as he wrote about in one of his own poems ; some one like Osborne , perhaps , rather than Osborne himself , for she shrank from giving a personal form and name to the hero that was to be . 
She had given her the place of a daughter in her heart ; and now she missed the sweet feminine companionship , the playful caresses , the never-ceasing attentions ; the very need of sympathy in her sorrows , that Molly had shown so openly from time to time ; all these things had extremely endeared her to the tender-hearted Mrs. Hamley . 
Molly , too , felt the change of atmosphere keenly ; and she blamed herself for so feeling even more keenly still . 
But she could not help having a sense of refinement , which had made her appreciate the whole manner of being at the Hall . 
By her dear old friends the Miss Brownings she was petted and caressed so much that she became ashamed of noticing the coarser and louder tones in which they spoke , the provincialism of their pronunciation , the absence of interest in things , and their greediness of details about persons . 
They asked her questions which she was puzzled enough to answer about her future stepmother ; her loyalty to her father forbidding her to reply fully and truthfully . 
She was always glad when they began to make inquiries as to every possible affair at the Hall . 
She had been so happy there ; she had liked them all , down to the very dogs , so thoroughly , that it was easy work replying : she did not mind telling them everything , even to the style of Mrs. Hamley 's invalid dress ; nor what wine the squire drank at dinner . 
But one evening , as they were all sitting together after tea in the little upstairs drawing-room , looking into the High Street -- Molly discoursing away on the various pleasures of Hamley Hall , and just then telling of all Roger 's wisdom in natural science , and some of the curiosities he had shown her , she was suddenly pulled up by this little speech , -- `` You seem to have seen a great deal of Mr. Roger , Molly ! '' 
said Miss Browning , in a way intended to convey a great deal of meaning to her sister and none at all to Molly . 
Molly was perfectly aware of Miss Browning 's emphatic tone , though at first she was perplexed as to its cause ; while Miss Phoebe was just then too much absorbed in knitting the heel of her stocking to be fully alive to her sister 's words and winks . 
`` Yes ; he was very kind to me , '' said Molly , slowly , pondering over Miss Browning 's manner , and unwilling to say more until she had satisfied herself to what the question tended . 
Molly is telling us how much she saw of Mr. Roger , and how kind he was to her . 
How was he kind to you , Molly ? '' 
Miss Browning , I ca n't help seeing what you fancy , '' said Molly , as red as fire , `` but it is very wrong ; it is all a mistake . 
And let me tell you , Molly , you are too young to let your mind be running on lovers . '' 
Molly had been once or twice called saucy and impertinent , and certainly a little sauciness came out now . 
Molly was flaming with indignation ; but she had appealed to the wrong person for justice . 
So Miss Browning and Molly went on till evening , each chafed and angry with the other . 
Molly went up to her little bedroom , clean and neat as a bedroom could be , with draperies of small delicate patchwork -- bed-curtains , window-curtains , and counterpane ; a japanned toilette-table , full of little boxes , with a small looking-glass affixed to it , that distorted every face that was so unwise as to look in it . 
This room had been to the child one of the most dainty and luxurious places ever seen , in comparison with her own bare , white-dimity bedroom ; and now she was sleeping in it , as a guest , and all the quaint adornments she had once peeped at as a great favour , as they were carefully wrapped up in cap-paper , were set out for her use . 
And yet how little she had deserved this hospitable care ; how impertinent she had been ; how cross she had felt ever since ! 
She was crying tears of penitence and youthful misery when there came a low tap to the door . 
Molly opened it , and there stood Miss Browning , in a wonderful erection of a nightcap , and scantily attired in a coloured calico jacket over her scrimpy and short white petticoat . 
`` I was afraid you were asleep , child , '' said she , coming in and shutting the door . 
We 'll not say any more about it , Molly ; only we 'll go to sleep friends , -- and friends we 'll always be , child , wo n't we ? 
`` I was wrong -- it was my fault , '' said Molly , kissing her . 
The next day Molly went with Miss Browning to see the changes going on in her father 's house . 
To her they were but dismal improvements . 
`` Very bright and pretty , '' Miss Browning called it ; and in the first renewing of their love Molly could not bear to contradict her . 
She could only hope that the green and brown drugget would tone down the brightness and prettiness . 
Molly could just remember , in faint clear lines of distinctness , the being taken into this very room to bid farewell to her dying mother . 
She could see the white linen , the white muslin , surrounding the pale , wan wistful face , with the large , longing eyes , yearning for one more touch of the little soft warm child , whom she was too feeble to clasp in her arms , already growing numb in death . 
Many a time when Molly had been in this room since that sad day , had she seen in vivid fancy that same wan wistful face lying on the pillow , the outline of the form beneath the clothes ; and the girl had not shrunk from such visions , but rather cherished them , as preserving to her the remembrance of her mother 's outward semblance . 
I sha 'n' t be able to do anything for your room , Molly ! '' 
`` I 'm right down glad of it , '' said Molly . 
`` Nearly everything in it was what mamma had when she lived with my great-uncle . 
By the way , Molly , who 's to buy you a bridesmaid 's dress ? '' 
`` I do n't know , '' said Molly ; `` I suppose I am to be a bridesmaid ; but no one has spoken to me about my dress . '' 
But Mr. Gibson had thought of Molly 's dress , although he had said nothing about it to her . 
He had commissioned his future wife to get her what was requisite ; and presently a very smart dressmaker came over from the county-town to try on a dress , which was both so simple and so elegant as at once to charm Molly . 
When it came home all ready to put on , Molly had a private dressing-up for the Miss Brownings ' benefit ; and she was almost startled when she looked into the glass , and saw the improvement in her appearance . 
`` I wonder if I 'm pretty , '' thought she . 
-LRB- `` Fine feathers , '' thought Molly , and checked her rising vanity . -RRB- 
Mr. Gibson and Molly drove over to Ashcombe , the night before the wedding , in the one yellow post-chaise that Hollingford possessed . 
The Manor-house came up to its name , and delighted Molly at first sight . 
Molly did not know Mr. Preston , who stood in the doorway to greet her father . 
She took standing with him as a young lady at once , and it was the first time she had met with the kind of behaviour -- half complimentary , half flirting -- which some men think it necessary to assume with every woman under five-and-twenty . 
He had his own private reasons for wishing to get up a flirtation with Molly just at this time ; he had amused himself so much with the widow when she first came to Ashcombe , that he fancied that the sight of him , standing by her less polished , less handsome , middle-aged husband , might be too much of a contrast to be agreeable . 
Yet Mr. Preston kept apologizing to Molly for the rudeness of his bachelor home , for the smallness of the room , the great dining-room being already appropriated by his housekeeper , in preparation for the morrow 's breakfast . 
And then he rang for a servant to show Molly to her room . 
She was taken into a most comfortable chamber ; a wood fire on the hearth , candles lighted on the toilette-table , dark woollen curtains surrounding a snow-white bed , great vases of china standing here and there . 
`` Molly , quite aware of the fact that she had but her white muslin gown for the wedding besides that she had on , dismissed the good woman , and was thankful to be left to herself . 
And Molly tried to save her father by being ready to talk herself . 
`` I should think it was a very pleasant house to stay at , '' said Molly , remembering the look of warm comfort that pervaded it . 
But a little to her dismay Mr. Preston seemed to take it as a compliment to himself . 
Molly thought everything that was served was delicious , and cooked to the point of perfection ; but they did not seem to satisfy Mr. Preston , who apologized to his guests several times for the bad cooking of this dish , or the omission of a particular sauce to that ; always referring to bachelor 's house-keeping , bachelor 's this and bachelor 's that , till Molly grew quite impatient at the word . 
Her father 's depression , which was still continuing and rendering him very silent , made her uneasy ; yet she wished to conceal it from Mr. Preston ; and so she talked away , trying to obviate the sort of personal bearing which their host would give to everything . 
She did not know when to leave the gentlemen , but her father made a sign to her ; and she was conducted back to the yellow drawing-room by Mr. Preston , who made many apologies for leaving her there alone . 
She enjoyed herself extremely , however , feeling at liberty to prowl about , and examine all the curiosities the room contained . 
She carried a candle to it , and was looking intently at these faces when her father and Mr. Preston came in . 
Her father still looked careworn and anxious ; he came up and patted her on the back , looked at what she was looking at , and then went off to silence and the fire . 
Mr. Preston took the candle out of her hand , and threw himself into her interests with an air of ready gallantry . 
said Molly , looking at it again . 
Molly tried hard to find out a resemblance , and was again unsuccessful . 
said Molly , eagerly . 
That was not in the least what Molly wanted to ask ; but it was difficult to word the vague vastness of her unspoken inquiry . 
`` I do n't see why not , '' said Molly . 
If you do , pray remember me to her , and tell her how we have been talking about her -- you and I. '' `` I never write to her , '' said Molly , rather shortly . 
Molly heard her father exclaim at the fire in his bedroom , and Mr. Preston 's reply -- `` I pique myself on my keen relish for all creature comforts , and also on my power of doing without them , if need be . 
Lady Harriet came as a sort of amateur bridesmaid , to `` share Molly 's duties , '' as she called it . 
They went from the Manor-house in two carriages to the church in the park , Mr. Preston and Mr. Gibson in one , and Molly , to her dismay , shut up with Lord Cumnor and Lady Harriet in the other . 
She was very merry , and very much inclined to talk to Molly , by way of finding out what sort of a little personage Clare was to have for her future daughter . 
Molly conscientiously strove to find out the meaning of this speech ; but before she had done so , Lady Harriet spoke again , going to the point , as she always piqued herself on doing : `` I daresay it 's something of a trial to you , this second marriage of your father 's ; but you 'll find Clare the most amiable of women . 
`` I mean to try and like her , '' said Molly , in a low voice , trying hard to keep down the tears that would keep rising to her eyes this morning . 
said Lady Harriet , who had caught a sight of Molly 's troubled face , `` the thought of balls is too much for her just now ; but you 'll like having Cynthia Kirkpatrick for a companion , sha 'n' t you , dear ? '' 
`` Very much , '' said Molly , cheering up a little . 
Before Molly could shape her next question , they were at the church ; and she and Lady Harriet went into a pew near the door to wait for the bride , in whose train they were to proceed to the altar . 
The bride and bridegroom were driving together to the Manor-house , Mr. Preston was walking thither by a short cut , and Molly was again in the carriage with my lord , rubbing his hands and chuckling , and Lady Harriet , trying to be kind and consolatory , when her silence would have been the best comfort . 
Molly found out , to her dismay , that the plan was for her to return with Lord Cumnor and Lady Harriet when they went back to the Towers in the evening . 
When they were by themselves after all the others had been thus disposed of , Lady Harriet sate still over the drawing-room fire , holding a screen between it and her face , but gazing intently at Molly for a minute or two . 
Molly was fully conscious of this prolonged look , and was trying to get up her courage to return the stare , when Lady Harriet suddenly said , -- `` I like you ; -- you are a little wild creature , and I want to tame you . 
`` Molly Gibson . 
`` Molly is a nice , soft-sounding name . 
`` I did n't know there was a Lady Betty 's cotton , '' said Molly . 
sighed out Molly , under her breath . 
`` I should hate to be managed , '' said Molly , indignantly . 
`` I do n't quite understand what you mean , '' said Molly . 
Mr. Preston came into the room just at this time , and Molly was a little surprised at Lady Harriet 's cool manner of dismissing him , remembering as she did how Mr. Preston had implied his intimacy with her ladyship the evening before at dinner-time . 
`` I do n't know -- I never heard it , '' said Molly , a little ashamed of her ignorance . 
Molly sate quite silent for a minute or two ; then she mustered up courage to speak out what was in her mind . 
`` Your ladyship '' -LRB- the title was the firstfruits of the lesson , as Molly took it , on paying due respect -RRB- -- `` your ladyship keeps speaking of the sort of -- the class of people to which I belong as if it was a kind of strange animal you were talking about ; yet you talk so openly to me that -- '' `` Well , go on -- I like to hear you . '' 
Molly held her peace for two or three moments ; then she lifted her beautiful , honest eyes to Lady Harriet 's face , and said , -- `` Yes ! 
persevered Molly . 
But he affected not to perceive Lady Harriet 's haughtiness , and , turning to Molly , he said , -- `` Will not you come out , Miss Gibson , and see something of the gardens ? 
Molly did not like the idea of going out for a tête-á-tête walk with Mr. Preston : yet she pined for a little fresh air , would have liked to have seen the gardens , and have looked at the Manor-house from different aspects ; and , besides this , much as she recoiled from Mr. Preston , she felt sorry for him under the repulse he had just received . 
While she was hesitating , and slowly tending towards consent , Lady Harriet spoke , -- `` I can not spare Miss Gibson . 
asked Lady Harriet of Molly . 
`` I would rather go back to Miss Brownings ' at once , please , '' said Molly , with a nightmare-like recollection of the last , the only evening she had spent at the Towers . 
Lady Harriet stopped to kiss Molly on the forehead , and to say , -- `` I shall come some day soon , and bring you a load of Miss Edgeworth 's tales , and make further acquaintance with Pecksy and Flapsy . '' 
`` No , do n't , please , '' said Molly , taking hold of her , to detain her . 
Molly 's heart beat very fast , but she meant every word that she said . 
Molly hesitated . 
So Molly drove off in solitary grandeur ; and Miss Brownings ' knocker was loosened on its venerable hinges by the never-ending peal of Lord Cumnor 's footman . 
What had become of Molly during all the afternoon , had been a great perplexity to them ; and they were very much oppressed with a sense of the great honour she had received in being allowed to spend so many hours alone with Lady Harriet . 
Molly began to feel as if there was some foundation for Lady Harriet 's inclination to ridicule the worship paid by the good people of Hollingford to their liege lord , and to wonder with what tokens of reverence they would receive Lady Harriet if she came to pay her promised visit . 
Before Lady Harriet 's call was paid , Molly received another visit . 
Molly heard his powerful voice come sounding up the little staircase , as he asked if Miss Gibson was at home from the servant-maid at the door ; and she was half amused and half annoyed as she thought how this call of his would give colour to Miss Browning 's fancies . 
He knew the Miss Brownings slightly , and talked pleasantly to them while Molly read Mrs. Hamley 's little missive of sympathy and good wishes relating to the wedding ; then he turned to her , and though Miss Brownings listened with all their ears , they could not find out anything remarkable either in the words he said or the tone in which they were spoken . 
Molly saw Roger 's eyes twinkle at the misapplication of the word ; but though he had a strong sense of humour , it never appeared to diminish his respect for the people who amused him . 
While Molly finished reading her note , he explained its contents to Miss Browning . 
said Molly , sparkling with the idea of seeing her dear Mrs. Hamley again , yet afraid of appearing too desirous of leaving her kind old friends . 
When he was gone , Molly felt so light-hearted at the thoughts of Thursday that she could hardly attend to what the Miss Brownings were saying . 
One was talking about the pretty muslin gown which Molly had sent to the wash only that morning , and contriving how it could be had back again in time for her to wear ; and the other , Miss Phoebe , totally inattentive to her sister 's speaking for a wonder , was piping out a separate strain of her own , and singing Roger Hamley 's praises . 
`` I 've never seen Mr. Osborne , '' said Molly , blushing , and hating herself for doing so . 
She had never seen him as she said . 
It was only that her fancy had dwelt on him so much . 
He was gone -- all the gentlemen were gone before the carriage , which came to fetch Molly on Thursday , reached Hamley Hall . 
But Molly was almost glad , she was so much afraid of being disappointed . 
Besides , she had her dear Mrs. Hamley the more to herself ; the quiet sit in the morning-room , talking poetry and romance ; the midday saunter into the garden , brilliant with autumnal flowers and glittering dew-drops on the gossamer webs that stretched from scarlet to blue , and thence to purple and yellow petals . 
He came up to his mother , and stood by her , holding her hand , while his eyes sought Molly , not boldly or impertinently , but as if appraising her critically . 
Molly was trying to reconcile the ideal with the real . 
However , Molly 's hero was not to eat more than Ivanhoe , when he was Friar Tuck 's guest ; and , after all , with a little alteration , she began to think Mr. Osborne Hamley might turn out a poetical , if not a chivalrous hero . 
He was extremely attentive to his mother , which pleased Molly , and , in return , Mrs. Hamley seemed charmed with him to such a degree that Molly once or twice fancied that mother and son would have been happier in her absence . 
There were little turns and ` fioriture ' of speech which Molly could not help feeling were graceful antics of language not common in the simple daily intercourse between mother and son . 
And before the afternoon was ended , without there having been any direct conversation between Osborne and Molly , she had reinstated him on his throne in her imagination ; indeed , she had almost felt herself disloyal to her dear Mrs. Hamley when , in the first hour after her introduction , she had questioned his claims on his mother 's idolatry . 
His beauty came out more and more , as he became animated in some discussion with her ; and all his attitudes , if a little studied , were graceful in the extreme . 
Before Molly left , the squire and Roger returned from Canonbury . 
Molly intercepted a glance between the two brothers -- a look of true confidence and love , which suddenly made her like them both under the aspect of relationship -- new to her observation . 
Roger came up to her , and sat down by her . 
`` I 'm afraid , '' said Molly , penitently , `` I have n't read much . 
And when I come , I shall expect my pupil to have been very diligent , '' he concluded , smiling his kind , pleasant smile at idle Molly . 
Then the carriage came round , and she had the long solitary drive back to Miss Brownings ' It was dark out of doors when she got there ; but Miss Phoebe was standing on the stairs , with a lighted candle in her hand , peering into the darkness to see Molly come in . 
`` Oh , Molly ! 
said Molly suddenly enlightened by the word ` condescending . ' 
Oh , dear Molly ! 
` But , ' I said , ' a message is a message , and it 's on Molly 's own shoulders if she 's set up by it . 
Let us show her an example of humility , sister , though we have been sitting cheek-by-jowl in such company . ' 
So Molly told her small events ; which , interesting as they might have been at other times to the gossip-loving and sympathetic Miss Phoebe , were rather pale in the stronger light reflected from the visit of an earl 's daughter . 
On Tuesday afternoon Molly returned home -- to the home which was already strange , and what Warwickshire people would call `` unked , '' to her . 
All these complaints Molly had to listen to , and it was not a cheerful preparation for the reception which she already felt to be so formidable . 
The sound of their carriage-wheels was heard at last , and Molly went to the front door to meet them . 
Her father got out first , and took her hand and held it while he helped his bride to alight . 
Then he kissed her fondly , and passed her on to his wife ; but her veil was so securely -LRB- and becomingly -RRB- fastened down , that it was some time before Mrs. Gibson could get her lips clear to greet her new daughter . 
Then there was luggage to be seen about ; and both the travellers were occupied in this , while Molly stood by trembling with excitement , unable to help , and only conscious of Betty 's rather cross looks , as heavy box after heavy box jammed up the passage . 
`` Molly , my dear , show -- your mamma to her room ! '' 
Mr. Gibson had hesitated , because the question of the name by which Molly was to call her new relation had never occurred to him before . 
The colour flashed into Molly 's face . 
Was she to call her `` mamma ? '' 
-- the name long appropriated in her mind to some one else -- to her own dead mother . 
The rebellious heart rose against it , but she said nothing . 
She led the way upstairs , Mrs. Gibson turning round , from time to time , with some fresh direction as to which bag or trunk she needed most . 
She hardly spoke to Molly till they were both in the newly-furnished bedroom , where a small fire had been lighted by Molly 's orders . 
`` I 've ordered a sort of tea-dinner to be ready for you , '' said Molly . 
As soon as Mrs. Gibson found that he was not likely to miss her presence -- he had eaten a very tolerable lunch of bread and cold meat in solitude , so her fears about his appetite in her absence were not well founded -- she desired to have her meal upstairs in her own room ; and poor Molly , not daring to tell the servants of this whim , had to carry up first a table , which , however small , was too heavy for her ; and afterwards all the choice portions of the meal , which she had taken great pains to arrange on the table , as she had seen such things done at Hamley , intermixed with fruit and flowers that had that morning been sent in from various great houses where Mr. Gibson was respected and valued . 
How pretty Molly had thought her handiwork an hour or two before ! 
Molly hastily finished her meal , and went upstairs again . 
`` Mr. Craven Smith could n't put off his dying , '' said Molly , bluntly . 
Molly bit her lips to prevent herself from saying something disagreeable . 
She only answered , -- `` I do n't quite know that he is dying . 
Molly got a book , and read her stepmother to sleep , preferring that to the harder task of keeping up a continual murmur of speech . 
Then she stole down and went into the dining-room , where the fire was gone out ; purposely neglected by the servants , to mark their displeasure at their new mistress 's having had her tea in her own room . 
Molly managed to light it , however , before her father came home , and collected and re-arranged some comfortable food for him . 
Then she knelt down again on the hearth-rug , gazing into the fire in a dreamy reverie , which had enough of sadness about it to cause the tear to drop unnoticed from her eyes . 
But she jumped up , and shook herself into brightness at the sound of her father 's step . 
said she . 
Molly was silent . 
She put a cup of tea near him ; he stirred it , and sipped it , and then he recurred to the subject . 
-- that was the question that rose to Molly 's mind . 
She had always spoken of her father 's new wife as Mrs. Gibson , and had once burst out at Miss Brownings ' with a protestation that she never would call her `` mamma . '' 
Then he said , -- `` You wo n't be sorry for it , Molly , when you come to lie as poor Craven Smith did to-night . '' 
For some time the murmurs and grumblings of the two elder servants were confined to Molly 's ears , then they spread to her father 's , who , to Molly 's dismay , made summary work with them . 
Betty told Molly she was going to leave , in as indifferent a manner as she could possibly assume towards the girl , whom she had tended and been about for the last sixteen years . 
Molly had hitherto considered her former nurse as a fixture in the house ; she would almost as soon have thought of her father 's proposing to sever the relationship between them ; and here was Betty coolly talking over whether her next place should be in town or country . 
One day he said to Molly , `` I wish you 'd ask your mamma if Betty might not stay , if she made a proper apology , and all that sort of thing . '' 
`` I do n't much think it will be of any use , '' said Molly , in a mournful voice . 
So Molly tried her hand at making a request to that effect to Mrs. Gibson . 
Her instinct told her she should be unsuccessful ; but surely favour was never refused in so soft a tone . 
`` She is so sorry , '' pleaded Molly ; `` she says she will do anything you wish , and attend to all your orders , if she may only stay . '' 
Molly was silent for a moment or two . 
asked she . 
Sometimes one would think you did not hear things , dear Molly ! '' 
said Molly , softly . 
A few elegant cold trifles for herself and Molly would not scent the house , and she would always take care to have some little dainty ready for him . 
Molly knew her father 's looks as well as she knew her alphabet ; his wife did not ; and being an unperceptive person , except when her own interests were dependent upon another person 's humour , never found out how he was worried by all the small daily concessions which he made to her will or her whims . 
He was to be the last of the race of pupils , and he was rather more than a year younger than Molly . 
The squire , their father , had done his congratulations , as far as he ever intended to do them , to Mr. Gibson himself when he came to the hall ; but Mrs. Hamley , unable to go and pay visits herself , anxious to show attention to her kind doctor 's new wife , and with perhaps a little sympathetic curiosity as to how Molly and her stepmother got on together , made her sons ride over to Hollingford with her cards and apologies . 
Molly was better dressed than formerly ; her stepmother saw after that . 
She disliked anything old or shabby , or out of taste about her ; it hurt her eye ; and she had already fidgeted Molly into a new amount of care about the manner in which she put on her clothes , arranged her hair , and was gloved and shod . 
Mrs. Gibson had tried to put her through a course of rosemary washes and creams in order to improve her tanned complexion ; but about that Molly was either forgetful or rebellious , and Mrs. Gibson could not well come up to the girl 's bedroom every night and see that she daubed her face and neck over with the cosmetics so carefully provided for her . 
Molly heard fragments of their conversation in the pauses of silence between Roger and herself . 
Her hero was coming out in quite a new character ; no longer literary or poetical , or romantic , or critical , he was now full of the last new play , the singers at the opera . 
Molly , who had a pretty good idea by this time of how her stepmother had passed the last year of her life , listened with no small bewilderment to this conversation ; but at length decided that she must misunderstand what they were saying , as she could not gather up the missing links for the necessity of replying to Roger 's questions and remarks . 
Roger saw Molly glancing at his brother . 
`` If I may , '' said Molly , unconsciously glancing at her stepmother . 
She had an uncomfortable instinct that , in spite of Mrs. Gibson 's own perpetual flow of words , she could , and did , hear everything that fell from Molly 's lips . 
Molly was spiteful enough to have great pleasure in saying , -- `` I think I 've heard her father was a Russian merchant , and imported tallow and hemp . 
`` I know nothing about it , '' said Molly . 
`` He 's going back to Cambridge next week , '' said Molly . 
said Molly , who had always a longing curiosity for this same Cynthia 's return . 
said Molly , in astonishment at the never-ending changes . 
`` Oh , please , mamma , not mine , '' said Molly , taking in the idea for the first time . 
`` It was my own mamma 's before she was married , '' said Molly , in a very low voice ; bringing out this last plea unwillingly , but with a certainty that it would not be resisted . 
Really , Molly , you are either very stupid or very obstinate , or else you do n't care what hard things may be said about me : and all for a selfish fancy of your own ! 
So Molly 's little white dimity bed , her old-fashioned chest of drawers , and her other cherished relics of her mother 's maiden-days , were consigned to the lumber-room ; and after a while , when Cynthia and her great French boxes had come home , the old furniture that had filled up the space required for the fresh importation of trunks , disappeared likewise into the same room . 
But she was rather perplexed at kindly messages to Molly , and at inquiries as to how the Miss Brownings liked the tea she had sent ; and Molly had first to explain , and then to narrate at full length , all the occurrences of the afternoon at Ashcombe Manor-house , and Lady Harriet 's subsequent call upon her at Miss Brownings ' `` What nonsense ! '' 
''' `` She promised me she would not , '' said Molly driven to bay . 
`` I did n't mean it as impertinence , '' said Molly sturdily . 
He shook her hand heartily , as a mark of congratulation on her good fortune in having secured such a prize as his friend Gibson , but said nothing about his long neglect of duty . 
Molly , who by this time knew the few strong expressions of his countenance well , was sure that something was the matter , and that he was very much disturbed . 
He hardly attended to Mrs. Gibson 's fluent opening of conversation , for she had already determined to make a favourable impression on the father of the handsome young man who was heir to an estate , besides his own personal agreeableness ; but he turned to Molly , and , addressing her , said -- almost in a low voice , as if he was making a confidence to her that he did not intend Mrs. Gibson to hear , -- `` Molly , we are all wrong at home ! 
`` I 'll be ready in ten minutes , '' said Molly , much touched by the squire 's words and manner , never thinking of asking her stepmother 's consent , now that she had heard that her father had given his . 
As she rose to leave the room , Mrs. Gibson , who had only half heard what the squire had said , and was a little affronted at the exclusiveness of his confidence , said , -- `` My dear , where are you going ? '' 
`` Mrs. Hamley wants me , and papa says I may go , '' said Molly ; and almost at the same time the squire replied , -- `` My wife is ill , and as she 's very fond of your daughter , she begged Mr. Gibson to allow her to come to the Hall for a little while , and he kindly said she might , and I 'm come to fetch her . '' 
`` Stop a minute , darling , '' said Mrs. Gibson to Molly -- a slight cloud over her countenance , in spite of her caressing word . 
`` I am sure dear papa quite forgot that you were to go out with me to-night , to visit people , '' continued she , addressing herself to the squire , `` with whom I am quite unacquainted -- and it is very uncertain if Mr. Gibson can return in time to accompany me -- so , you see , I can not allow Molly to go with you . '' 
Well , Molly '' -LRB- in a louder tone , for these foregoing sentences were spoken sotto voce -RRB- , `` we must put it off till to-morrow : and it 's our loss , not yours , '' he continued , as he saw the reluctance with which she slowly returned to her place . 
`` You 'll be as gay as can be to-night , I daresay -- '' `` No , I shall not , '' broke in Molly . 
`` Hush , my dear , '' said Mrs. Gibson ; and , addressing the squire , she added , `` The visiting here is not all one could wish for so young a girl -- no young people , no dances , nothing of gaiety ; but it is wrong in you , Molly , to speak against such kind friends of your father 's as I understand these Cockerells are . 
`` Let her alone ! 
let her alone ! '' 
`` I see what she means . 
She 'd rather come and be in my wife 's sick-room than go out for this visit to-night . 
Is there no way of getting her off ? '' 
`` An engagement is an engagement with me ; and I consider that she is not only engaged to Mrs. Cockerell , but to me -- bound to accompany me , in my husband 's absence . '' 
Molly knew this phase of his displeasure , and only hoped he would confine himself to this wordless expression of annoyance . 
It was pretty hard work for her to keep the tears out of her eyes ; and she endeavoured to think of something else , rather than dwell on regrets and annoyances . 
She heard Mrs. Gibson talking on in a sweet monotone , and wished to attend to what she was saying , but the squire 's visible annoyance struck sharper on her mind . 
So you 'll excuse me , Mrs. Gibson , wo n't you ; and let Molly come along with me at ten to-morrow morning ? '' 
But when his back was turned , she said to Molly , -- `` Now , my dear , I must never have you exposing me to the ill-manners of such a man again ! 
You must not go on accepting or rejecting invitations as if you were an independent young lady , Molly . 
`` Papa had said I might go , '' said Molly , choking a little . 
There never is , I think ; and now that she is so ill '' -- Molly was on the point of crying at the thought of her friend lying ill and lonely , and looking for her arrival . 
Moreover , she was sadly afraid lest the squire had gone off with the idea that she did not want to come -- that she preferred that stupid , stupid party at the Cockerells ' Mrs. Gibson , too , was sorry ; she had an uncomfortable consciousness of having given way to temper before a stranger , and a stranger , too , whose good opinion she had meant to cultivate ; and she was also annoyed at Molly 's tearful face . 
she said . 
What can I do to please you , Molly ? 
Molly could stand it no longer ; she went upstairs to her own room -- her own smart new room , which hardly yet seemed a familiar place ; and began to cry so heartily and for so long a time , that she stopped at length for very weariness . 
She thought of Mrs. Hamley wearying for her ; of the old Hall whose very quietness might become oppressive to an ailing person ; of the trust the squire had had in her that she would come off directly with him . 
And all this oppressed her much more than the querulousness of her stepmother 's words . 
If Molly thought that peace dwelt perpetually at Hamley Hall she was sorely mistaken . 
Any one of them could have told Molly that the grievance which lay at the root of everything , was the amount of the bills run up by Osborne at Cambridge , and which , now that all chance of his obtaining a fellowship was over , came pouring down upon the squire . 
But Molly , confident of being told by Mrs. Hamley herself anything which she wished her to hear , encouraged no confidences from any one else . 
The squire ushered Molly in with , -- `` Here she is at last ! '' 
and Molly had scarcely imagined that he had so much variety in the tones of his voice -- the beginning of the sentence was spoke in a loud congratulatory manner , while the last words were scarcely audible . 
Mrs. Hamley stretched out one hand to Molly , and held hers firm ; with the other she shaded her eyes . 
Then he returned to the sofa ; looked at her for a minute or two , and then softly kissed her , and told Molly he would leave her in charge . 
As if Mrs. Hamley was afraid of Molly 's remarks or questions , she began in her turn a hasty system of interrogatories . 
Even with Molly 's small experience of illness she saw how much of restless fever there was in this speech ; and instinct , or some such gift , prompted her to tell a long story of many things -- the wedding-day , her visit to Miss Brownings ' , the new furniture , Lady Harriet , & c. , all in an easy flow of talk which was very soothing to Mrs. Hamley , inasmuch as it gave her something to think about beyond her own immediate sorrows . 
But Molly did not speak of her own grievances , nor of the new domestic relationship . 
`` Not always , '' said Molly . 
That sore had not yet healed over ; but Molly resolutely kept silence , beating her brains to think of some other subject of conversation . 
I see , Molly , '' said Mrs. Hamley ; `` you wo n't tell me your sorrows , and yet , perhaps , I could have done you some good . '' 
`` I do n't like , '' said Molly , in a low voice . 
Oh , Molly ! 
Molly was taken to another room ; the maid who conducted her to it told her that Mrs. Hamley had not wished her to have her nights disturbed , as they might very probably have been if she had been in her former sleeping-room . 
In the afternoon Mrs. Hamley sent for her , and with the want of reticence common to invalids , especially to those suffering from long and depressing maladies , she told Molly of the family distress and disappointment . 
She made Molly sit down near her on a little stool , and , holding her hand , and looking into her eyes to catch her spoken sympathy from their expression quicker than she could from her words , she said , -- `` Osborne has so disappointed us ! 
He would have done , I think , Molly , if he had been here , face to face with me . 
Molly , Osborne was such a sweet little baby , and such a loving boy : so clever , too ! 
asked Molly . 
Molly , worse than all -- I do n't know how to bring myself to tell you -- as to the age and health of the squire , his dear father '' -- -LRB- she began to sob almost hysterically ; yet she would go on talking , in spite of Molly 's efforts to stop her -RRB- -- `` who held him in his arms , and blessed him , even before I had kissed him ; and thought always so much of him as his heir and first-born darling . 
And dear , dear Mrs. Hamley , '' said Molly , determined to say out all that was in her mind now that she had once got the word , `` do n't you think that it would be better not to misjudge Mr. Osborne Hamley ? 
Molly was nonplussed for the moment ; but then she said , -- `` I daresay they imposed upon him . 
`` You 're a great darling , child , '' said Mrs. Hamley , comforted by Molly 's strong partisanship , unreasonable and ignorant though it was . 
`` And , besides , '' continued Molly , `` some one must be acting wrongly in Osborne 's -- Mr. Osborne Hamley 's , I mean -- I ca n't help saying Osborne sometimes , but , indeed , I always think of him as Mr. Osborne -- '' `` Never mind , Molly , what you call him ; only go on talking . 
`` I think I 've been very weak , Molly , '' said Mrs. Hamley , stroking Molly 's curl 's affectionately . 
What with his anger against his son , and his anxiety about his wife ; the difficulty of raising the money immediately required , and his irritation at the scarce-concealed inquiries made by strangers as to the value of his property , the poor squire was in a sad state . 
The butler , who was accustomed to argue with his master about every fresh direction as to his work , now nudged Molly at dinner-time to make her eat of some dish which she had just been declining , and explained his conduct afterwards as follows : -- `` You see , miss , me and cook had planned a dinner as would tempt master to eat ; but when you say , ` No , thank you , ' when I hand you anything , master never so much as looks at it . 
The squire asked Molly questions about Hollingford people , but did not seem much to attend to her answers . 
He used also to ask her every day how she thought that his wife was ; but if Molly told the truth -- that every day seemed to make her weaker and weaker -- he was almost savage with the girl . 
Dear Gibson , -- For God 's sake forgive me if I was rude to-day . 
P.S. -- Molly is a treasure . 
But the day after the consultation with Dr. Nicholls , Mr. Gibson said to Molly , -- `` Molly ! 
And , Molly , they are sure to come home as soon as they hear my report of their mother 's state . 
Molly dreaded the squire 's anger when she gave him her father 's message . 
She had seen quite enough of the domestic relations of the Hamley family to understand that , underneath his old-fashioned courtesy , and the pleasant hospitality he showed to her as a guest , there was a strong will , and a vehement passionate temper , along with that degree of obstinacy in prejudices -LRB- or `` opinions , '' as he would have called them -RRB- so common to those who have , neither in youth nor in manhood , mixed largely with their kind . 
The squire tried to make them pleasant to Molly , feeling deeply grateful to her for the soothing comfort she was to his wife . 
He ordered up rare wines , which she did not care for , but tasted out of complaisance . 
He noticed that one day she had eaten some brown beurré pears as if she liked them ; and as his trees had not produced many this year , he gave directions that this particular kind should be sought for through the neighbourhood . 
Molly felt that , in many ways , he was full of good-will towards her ; but it did not diminish her dread of touching on the one sore point in the family . 
The great log was placed on the after-dinner fire , the hearth swept up , the ponderous candles snuffed , and then the door was shut , and Molly and the squire were left to their dessert . 
She sat at the side of the table in her old place . 
Indeed , sometimes , when the door by which she used to enter was opened by any chance , Molly caught herself looking round as if she expected to see the tall , languid figure in the elegant draperies of rich silk and soft lace , which Mrs. Hamley was wont to wear of an evening . 
Molly began , `` When papa was here to-day , he bade me tell you he had written to Mr. Roger Hamley to say that -- that he thought he had better come home ; and he enclosed a letter to Mr. Osborne Hamley to say the same thing . '' 
The squire put down the poker , but he still kept his back to Molly . 
Molly answered , `` Yes . '' 
Then there was a dead silence , which Molly thought would never end . 
Did he know , '' -- he continued , turning round to Molly , with something of the fierceness she had anticipated in voice and look . 
`` She might have '' -LRB- some word Molly could not hear -- she thought it sounded like `` lingered '' -RRB- `` but for that . 
While Molly sat there still , very sad in her sympathy with all , he put his head in again . 
It is not to be supposed that Molly had remained all this time at the Hall without interruption . 
Once or twice her father had brought her a summons home . 
Molly thought she could perceive that he had brought it unwillingly ; in fact , it was Mrs. Gibson that had sent for her , almost , as it were , to preserve a `` right of way '' through her actions . 
So out of the silence and the soft melancholy of the Hall Molly returned into the all-pervading element of chatter and gossip at Hollingford . 
Once she had a smart new winter bonnet ready to give her as a present ; but she did not care to hear any particulars about the friends whom Molly had just left ; and her few remarks on the state of affairs at the Hall jarred terribly on the sensitive Molly . 
`` You do n't know how the squire values every minute , '' said Molly . 
cried Molly . 
`` I can not go , '' repeated Molly . 
And , acting upon impulse , and almost to her own surprise , she appealed to her father , who came into the room at this very time . 
Molly started to the door ; Mrs. Gibson made haste to ring the bell . 
`` Where are you going , Molly ? '' 
`` Come , Molly ! 
If I am to be appealed to , which I beg I may not be another time , I settle that Molly stops at home this evening . 
It was well for Molly that callers came in just at this time , for Mrs. Gibson was extremely annoyed . 
They told her some little local piece of news , however , which filled up her mind ; and Molly found that , if she only expressed wonder enough at the engagement they had both heard of from the departed callers , the previous discussion as to her accompanying her stepmother or not might be entirely passed over . 
Not entirely though ; for the next morning she had to listen to a very brilliantly touched up account of the dance and the gaiety which she had missed ; and also to be told that Mrs. Gibson had changed her mind about giving her the gown , and thought now that she should reserve it for Cynthia , if only it was long enough ; but Cynthia was so tall -- quite overgrown , in fact . 
The chances seemed equally balanced as to whether Molly might not have the gown after all . 
Osborne and Roger came to the Hall ; Molly found Roger established there when she returned after this absence at home . 
She gathered that Osborne was coming ; but very little was said about him in any way . 
She was so much under the influence of opiates that she did not often rouse up ; but when she did , she almost invariably asked for Molly . 
In their rare tête-á-têtes , she would ask after Osborne -- where he was , if he had been told , and if he was coming ? 
In her weakened and confused state of intellect she seemed to have retained two strong impressions -- one , of the sympathy with which Molly had received her confidence about Osborne ; the other , of the anger which her husband entertained against him . 
Before the squire she never mentioned Osborne 's name ; nor did she seem at her ease in speaking about him to Roger , while , when she was alone with Molly , she hardly spoke of any one else . 
She must have had some sort of wandering idea that Roger blamed his brother , while she remembered Molly 's eager defence , which she had thought hopelessly improbable at the time . 
At any rate she made Molly her confidant about her first-born . 
She sent her to ask Roger how soon he would come , for the seemed to know perfectly well that he was coming . 
But it was several days before Molly could ask Roger any questions ; and meanwhile Mrs. Hamley 's state had materially altered . 
At length Molly came upon Roger sitting in the library , his head buried in his hands . 
He did not hear her footstep till she was close beside him . 
`` I 've been wanting to see you alone , '' she began . 
He put his head again between his hands , and did not answer her for some time . 
You must know that he is n't free from creditors , Molly . 
`` I will tell her so . 
But , Molly , I think my mother may live some time yet ; do n't you ? 
He said she had rallied more than he had ever expected . 
`` I do so love her , '' said Molly , softly . 
It was partly that , and partly that at such a time as this one ca n't stand on formalities , that made me call you Molly . 
She really hungers for news of him . '' 
`` She 'd better ask me herself . 
I am so involved by promises of secrecy , Molly , that I could n't satisfy her if she once began to question me . 
`` I 'm not sure if she remembers all her painful anxiety about this , '' said Molly . 
asked Molly , with as much timidity as if the squire 's displeasure might be directed against her . 
asked Molly . 
said she . 
He turned away , leaving Molly very sad . 
She knew that every member of the family she cared for so much was in trouble , out of which she saw no exit ; and her small power of helping them was diminishing day by day as Mrs. Hamley sank more and more under the influence of opiates and stupefying illness . 
But Molly had begged hard to remain two or three days longer -- only that -- only till Friday . 
inquired Molly . 
So Molly hung about the house , trying to do all she could out of the sick-room , for the comfort of those in it . 
They only came out for meals , or for necessary business , and found little time for talking to her , so her life was solitary enough , waiting for the call that never came . 
The evening of the day on which she had had the above conversation with Roger , Osborne arrived . 
He came straight into the drawing-room , where Molly was seated on the rug , reading by firelight , as she did not like to ring for candles merely for her own use . 
Molly rose . 
He had not noticed her before ; now he came forwards , and took hold of both her hands , leading her into the full flickering light , and straining his eyes to look into her face . 
Before she could frame her answer , he had sate down in the nearest chair , covering his eyes with his hand . 
`` She 's very ill , '' said Molly . 
said Molly , anxious to prevent his self-reproach . 
`` Yes , '' said Molly ; `` I told him papa had sent for you . '' 
He had not heard of Osborne 's arrival , and was seeking Molly to ask her to write a letter for him . 
And , breaking off in the directions he was giving to Molly , he abruptly left the room . 
When lights were brought , Molly was struck with the change in Osborne . 
Not quite such a dainty gentleman either , as Molly had thought him , when she had last seen him calling on her stepmother , two months before . 
But she liked him better now . 
The tone of his remarks pleased her more . 
he asked Molly , for the third or fourth time . 
Osborne kept walking up and down the long drawing-room , half talking to himself , half to Molly . 
`` Not always conscious , '' said Molly , tenderly . 
When Roger came home , Molly thought it time to retire . 
it was getting time for her to leave this scene of distress in which she could be of no use . 
She sobbed herself to sleep this Tuesday night . 
Two days more , and it would be Friday ; and she would have to wrench up the roots she had shot down into this ground . 
Molly sate in the dining-room making tea for the gentlemen as they came down . 
She could not help hoping that the squire and Osborne might come to a better understanding before she left ; for after all , in the dissension between father and son , lay a bitterer sting than in the illness sent by God . 
In fact , their attempts at easy conversation were limited to local subjects , and principally addressed to Molly or Roger . 
Long before the day was over , Molly wished that she had acceded to her father 's proposal , and gone home with him . 
No one seemed to want her . 
Mrs. Jones , the nurse , assured her time after time that Mrs. Hamley had never named her name ; and her small services in the sick-room were not required since there was a regular nurse , Osborne and Roger seemed all in all to each other ; and Molly now felt how much the short conversations she had had with Roger had served to give her something to think about , all during the remainder of her solitary days . 
He spoke to her as any agreeable young man speaks to any pleasant young lady ; but Molly almost resented this . 
It was only the squire who seemed to make her of any account . 
He gave her letters to write , small bills to reckon up ; and she could have kissed his hands for thankfulness . 
The last afternoon of her stay at the Hall came . 
Molly went into the garden , thinking over the last summer , when Mrs. Hamley 's sofa used to be placed under the old cedar-tree on the lawn , and when the warm air seemed to be scented with roses and sweetbriar . 
Molly turned along the little flag-paved path that led past the library windows to the gate in the white railings at the front of the house , and went in at the opened door . 
She had had leave given to choose out any books she wished to read , and to take them home with her ; and it was just the sort of half-dawdling employment suited to her taste this afternoon . 
She mounted on the ladder to get to a particular shelf high up in a dark corner of the room ; and finding there some volume that looked interesting , she sat down on the step to read part of it . 
There she sat , in her bonnet and cloak , when Osborne suddenly came in . 
His face was towards Osborne , sitting in the light ; his back to Molly , crouched up in her corner . 
Roger looked round , and Molly stood up in her corner , red , trembling , miserable , as though she were a guilty person . 
Molly was the first to speak ; she came forward and said -- `` I am so sorry ! 
and turning to Roger she said to him with tears in her eyes -- `` Please say you know I shall not tell . '' 
Not but what I 'm as sure of you as of myself , '' continued he , turning to Molly . 
Molly had had hard work all this time to keep from crying . 
Now that she was alluded to as the third person before whom conversation was to be restrained , she said -- `` I 'm going away . 
`` Yes ; I will promise , '' said Molly , putting out her hand as a kind of pledge . 
Molly had not stayed so long and so intimately in the Hamley family without being well aware of the manner in which the future lady of Hamley was planned for . 
The squire , for instance , partly in order to show that Osborne , his heir , was above the reach of Molly Gibson , the doctor 's daughter , in the early days before he knew Molly well , had often alluded to the grand , the high , and the wealthy marriage which Hamley of Hamley , as represented by his clever , brilliant , handsome son Osborne , might be expected to make . 
-- These , and similar speeches had given Molly the impression of the future Mrs. Osborne as of some beautiful grand young lady , whose very presence would make the old Hall into a stately , formal mansion , instead of the pleasant , unceremonious home that it was at present . 
At length Molly tore herself up from her wonderings . 
It was of no use : she could not find out ; she might not even try . 
The blank wall of her promise blocked up the way . 
Molly dreaded seeing either of the brothers again ; but they all met at dinner-time as if nothing had happened . 
Osborne put on an indifferent manner to his father , which Molly felt sure was assumed ; but it was not conciliatory for all that . 
To-day he principally addressed himself to Molly ; entering into rather long narrations of late discoveries in natural history , which kept up the current of talk without requiring much reply from any one . 
Molly had expected Osborne to look something different from usual -- conscious , or ashamed , or resentful , or even `` married '' -- but he was exactly the Osborne of the morning -- handsome , elegant , languid in manner and in look ; cordial with his brother , polite towards her , secretly uneasy at the state of things between his father and himself . 
Molly 's father was not at home when she returned ; and there was no one to give her a welcome . 
Mrs. Gibson was out paying calls , the servants told Molly . 
She went upstairs to her own room , meaning to unpack and arrange her borrowed books . 
Rather to her surprise she saw the chamber , corresponding to her own , being dusted ; water and towels too were being carried in . 
she asked of the housemaid . 
Molly 's depressed spirits sprang up again with bright elasticity . 
She longed for Mrs. Gibson 's return , to ask her all about it : it must be very sudden , for Mr. Gibson had said nothing of it at the Hall the day before . 
No quiet reading now ; the books were hardly put away with Molly 's usual neatness . 
She went down into the drawing-room , and could not settle to anything . 
Until that was taken off , and she had rested herself for a few minutes , she seemed quite unable to attend to Molly 's questions . 
asked Molly . 
He anticipated her coming as a great pleasure to Molly , on whom , in spite of his recent marriage and his new wife , his interests principally centred . 
Molly was up betimes -- almost before it was light -- arranging her pretty Hamley flowers in Cynthia 's room . 
But , to her surprise , Mrs. Gibson had arranged herself at her great worsted-work frame , just as usual ; and she , in her turn , was astonished at Molly 's bonnet and cloak . 
asked Molly , with a good deal of disappointment . 
She settled herself to her work again ; and Molly , after some consideration , gave up her own grief , and employed herself in looking out of the downstairs window which commanded the approach from the town . 
she cried out at last . 
Her father was walking by the side of a tall young lady ; William the gardener was wheeling along a great cargo of baggage . 
Molly flew to the front-door , and had it wide open to admit the new-comer some time before she arrived . 
Molly , this is Cynthia . 
Cynthia , Molly . 
Molly saw the beautiful , tall , swaying figure , against the light of the open door , but could not see any of the features that were , for the moment , in shadow . 
A sudden gush of shyness had come over her just at the instant , and quenched the embrace she would have given a moment before . 
`` Here 's mamma , '' she said , looking beyond Molly on to the stairs where Mrs. Gibson stood , wrapped up in a shawl , and shivering in the cold . 
She ran past Molly and Mr. Gibson , who rather averted their eyes from this first greeting between mother and child . 
When they all came into the full light and repose of the drawing-room , Molly was absorbed in the contemplation of Cynthia 's beauty . 
Perhaps her features were not regular ; but the changes in her expressive countenance gave one no time to think of that . 
Her smile was perfect ; her pouting charming ; the play of the face was in the mouth . 
Her eyes were beautifully shaped , but their expression hardly seemed to vary . 
In colouring she was not unlike her mother ; only she had not so much of the red-haired tints in her complexion ; and her long-shaped , serious grey eyes were fringed with dark lashes , instead of her mother 's insipid flaxen ones . 
Molly fell in love with her , so to speak , on the instant . 
She sate there warming her feet and hands , as much at her ease as if she had been there all her life ; not particularly attending to her mother -- who , all the time , was studying either her or her dress -- measuring Molly and Mr. Gibson with grave observant looks , as if guessing how she should like them . 
`` Molly will take you to your room , darling , '' said she ; `` it is near hers , and she has got her things to take off . 
Cynthia rose and followed Molly upstairs . 
`` I 'm so sorry there is n't a fire for you , '' said Molly , `` but -- I suppose it was n't ordered ; and , of course , I do n't give any orders . 
`` Stop a minute , '' said Cynthia , getting hold of both Molly 's hands , and looking steadily into her face , but in such a manner that she did not dislike the inspection . 
Molly could not help smiling at the way this was said . 
Molly went into her own room , waiting to show Cynthia down to the dining-room . 
But Cynthia had so captivated Molly , that she wanted to devote herself to the new-comer 's service . 
Ever since she had heard of the probability of her having a sister -- -LRB- she called her a sister , but whether it was a Scotch sister , or a sister à la mode de Brêtagne , would have puzzled most people -RRB- -- Molly had allowed her fancy to dwell much on the idea of Cynthia 's coming ; and in the short time since they had met , Cynthia 's unconscious power of fascination had been exercised upon her . 
At any rate , Molly might soon have been aware that Cynthia was not remarkable for unflinching morality ; but the glamour thrown over her would have prevented Molly from any attempt at penetrating into and judging her companion 's character , even had such processes been the least in accordance with her own disposition . 
Molly would watch her perpetually as she went about the room , with the free stately step of some wild animal of the forest -- moving almost , as it were , to the continual sound of music . 
Her dress , too , though now to our ideas it would be considered ugly and disfiguring , was suited to her complexion and figure , and the fashion of it subdued within due bounds by her exquisite taste . 
Molly was hurt for Cynthia at all these speeches ; she thought they implied that the pleasure which her mother felt in seeing her a fortnight sooner after her two years ' absence was inferior to that which she would have received from a bundle of silver-paper patterns . 
Indeed , she received much of what her mother said with a kind of complete indifference , that made Mrs. Gibson hold her rather in awe ; and she was much more communicative to Molly than to her own child . 
She was a capital workwoman ; and , unlike Molly , who excelled in plain sewing , but had no notion of dressmaking or millinery , she could repeat the fashions she had only seen in passing along the streets of Boulogne , with one or two pretty rapid movements of her hands , as she turned and twisted the ribbons and gauze her mother furnished her with . 
So she refurbished Mrs. Gibson 's wardrobe ; doing it all in a sort of contemptuous manner , the source of which Molly could not quite make out . 
Molly -- very often sitting by Cynthia , and surrounded by ribbon , and wire , and net -- heard the bulletins like the toll of a funeral bell at a marriage feast . 
Her father sympathized with her . 
To Molly , the death of some one she had known so well and loved so much , was a sad and gloomy phenomenon . 
She loathed the small vanities with which she was surrounded , and would wander out into the frosty garden , and pace the walk , which was both sheltered and concealed by evergreens . 
At length -- and yet it was not so long , not a fortnight since Molly had left the Hall -- the end came . 
`` They all sent their love to you , Molly , '' said her father . 
Molly was sitting near him to keep him company . 
Molly remained downstairs after her father had gone out afresh on his final round among his town patients . 
Cynthia came softly in , and taking Molly 's listless hand , that hung down by her side , sat at her feet on the rug , chafing her chilly fingers without speaking . 
The tender action thawed the tears that had been gathering heavily at Molly 's heart , and they came dropping down her cheeks . 
`` You loved her dearly , did you not , Molly ? '' 
`` Yes , '' sobbed Molly ; and then there was a silence . 
`` Had you known her long ? '' 
But I had seen a great deal of her . 
I was almost like a daughter to her ; she said so . 
Yet I never bid her good-by , or anything . 
Her mind became weak and confused . '' 
`` She had only sons , I think ? '' 
She had a daughter once -- ` Fanny . ' 
Sometimes , in her illness , she used to call me ` Fanny . 
Cynthia spoke first : -- `` I wish I could love people as you do , Molly ! '' 
I do believe I love you , little Molly , whom I have only known for ten days , better than any one . '' 
said Molly , in grave astonishment . 
I loved my father , if you will , '' she continued , with the force of truth in her tone , and then she stopped ; `` but he died when I was quite a little thing , and no one believes that I remember him . 
`` That it was , '' said Molly , who remembered her own day of tribulation there . 
`` Of course I never thought of doing such a thing , '' replied Molly . 
`` So do I , '' said Molly , simply . 
She was thinking again of Mrs. Hamley , -- Only the actions of the just Smell sweet and blossom in the dust , and `` goodness '' just then seemed to her to be the only endearing thing in the world . 
`` Nonsense , Molly ! '' 
Molly could not follow Cynthia 's ideas ; she could not distract herself from the thoughts of the sorrowing group at the Hall . 
`` Do n't be so pedantically truthful , Molly . 
But there was no ill-nature , and , in a general way , no attempt at procuring any advantage for herself in all her deviations ; and there was often such a latent sense of fun in them that Molly could not help being amused with them in fact , though she condemned them in theory . 
Cynthia 's playfulness of manner glossed such failings over with a kind of charm ; and yet , at times , she was so soft and sympathetic that Molly could not resist her , even when she affirmed the most startling things . 
The little account she made of her own beauty pleased Mr. Gibson extremely ; and her pretty deference to him won his heart . 
She was restless too , till she had attacked Molly 's dress , after she had remodelled her mother 's . 
`` Now for you , sweet one , '' said she as she began upon one of Molly 's gowns . 
She brought down her pretty artificial flowers , plucked out of her own best bonnet to put into Molly 's , saying they would suit her complexion , and that a knot of ribbons would do well enough for her . 
All the time she worked , she sang ; she had a sweet voice in singing , as well as in speaking , and used to run up and down her gay French chansons without any difficulty ; so flexible in the art was she . 
Yet she did not seem to care for music . 
She rarely touched the piano on which Molly practised with daily conscientiousness . 
Cynthia was always willing to answer questions about her previous life , though , after the first , she rarely alluded to it of herself ; but she was a most sympathetic listener to all Molly 's innocent confidences of joys and sorrows : sympathizing even to the extent of wondering how she could endure Mr. Gibson 's second marriage , and why she did not take some active steps of rebellion . 
In spite of all this agreeable and pungent variety of companionship at home , Molly yearned after the Hamleys . 
If there had been a woman in that family she would probably have received many little notes , and heard numerous details which were now lost to her , or summed up in condensed accounts of her father 's visits at the Hall , which , since his dear patient was dead , were only occasional . 
They always ended in some kind message to Molly . 
Mrs. Gibson generally said , as a comment upon her husband 's account of Osborne 's melancholy , -- `` My dear ! 
Molly was almost sorry for Mrs. Gibson , who seemed so unable to gain influence over her child . 
One day Cynthia read Molly 's thought . 
`` But though it may know that there must be faults , '' replied Molly , `` it ought to cover them over an I try to forget their existence . '' 
One day , to Molly 's infinite surprise , Mr. Preston was announced as a caller . 
His entrance seemed to cause more confusion than Molly could well account for . 
He came in with the same air of easy assurance with which he had received her and her father at Ashcombe Manor-house . 
Yet there was a degree of agitation in it , which surprised Molly a little . 
Mrs. Gibson was at her everlasting worsted-work frame when he entered the room ; but somehow in rising to receive him , she threw down her basket of crewels , and , declining Molly 's offer to help her , she would pick up all the reels herself , before she asked her visitor to sit down . 
He stood there , hat in hand , affecting an interest in the recovery of the worsted which Molly was sure he did not feel ; for all the time his eyes were glancing round the room , and taking note of the details in the arrangement . 
`` You can hardly call it solitary , I should think , when you have such a companion as Miss Gibson always at hand , '' said he , bowing to Molly . 
`` I do n't think you could ride pillion behind him on Black Bess , mamma , '' said Molly . 
We really must stir papa up against next winter , Molly ; it will never do for you and -- '' She pulled herself up suddenly , and looked furtively at Mr. Preston to see if he had taken any notice of her abruptness . 
He turned to Molly , and said , -- `` Have you ever been to a public ball yet , Miss Gibson ? '' 
said Molly . 
It was exactly one of the speeches Molly had disliked him for before ; and delivered , too , in that kind of underbred manner which showed that it was meant to convey a personal compliment . 
Molly took great credit to herself for the unconcerned manner with which she went on with her tatting exactly as if she had never heard it . 
`` I do n't choose to engage myself beforehand , '' said Molly , perceiving , from under her dropped eyelids , that he was leaning forward and looking at her as though he was determined to have an answer . 
He said these last words exactly in the same tone as he had used before ; but Molly 's instinct told her that he was making an effort to do so . 
She looked up . 
asked Molly of herself , yet glad that Mr. Preston 's curiosity was baffled . 
Just at this moment , Molly heard the familiar sound of the click and opening of the front door . 
She knew it must be Cynthia ; and , conscious of some mysterious reason which made Mrs. Gibson wish to conceal her daughter 's whereabouts from Mr. Preston , and maliciously desirous to baffle him , she rose to leave the room , and meet Cynthia on the stairs ; but one of the lost crewels of worsted had entangled itself in her gown and feet , and before she had freed herself of her encumbrance , Cynthia had opened the drawing-room door , and stood in it , looking at her mother , at Molly , at Mr. Preston , but not advancing one step . 
She sate down on a little sofa in one of the windows , and called Molly to her . 
`` Look at my purchases , '' said she . 
`` This green ribbon was fourteen-pence a yard , this silk three shillings , '' and so she went on , forcing herself to speak about these trifles as if they were all the world to her , and she had no attention to throw away on her mother and her mother 's visitor . 
Mr. Preston took his cue from her . 
He , too , talked of the news of the day , the local gossip -- but Molly , who glanced up at him from time to time , was almost alarmed by the bad expression of suppressed anger , nearly amounting to vindictiveness , which entirely marred his handsome looks . 
She did not wish to look again ; and tried rather to back up Cynthia 's efforts at maintaining a separate conversation . 
Mrs. Gibson was never unwilling to dwell upon Molly 's intimacy with this county family ; and when the latter caught the sound of her own name , her stepmother was saying , -- `` Poor Mrs. Hamley could hardly do without Molly ; she quite looked upon her as a daughter , especially towards the last , when , I am afraid , she had a good deal of anxiety . 
`` Yes , '' said Molly , starting up , and coming nearer . 
`` He 's senior wrangler , that 's all , '' said Mr. Preston , almost as though he were vexed with himself for having anything to say that could give her pleasure . 
Molly went back to her seat by Cynthia . 
`` Poor Mrs. Hamley , '' said she , very softly , as if to herself . 
Cynthia took her hand , in sympathy with Molly 's sad and tender look , rather than because she understood all that was passing in her mind , nor did she quite understand it herself . 
`` Dear Molly , '' said Cynthia , in a whisper , `` I know nothing about your friends the Hamleys , except that they are your friends , and what you have told me about them . 
Her evident respect for Mr. Gibson , and desire for his good opinion , made her curb herself before him ; and in this manner she earned his good favour as a lively , sensible girl , with just so much knowledge of the world as made her a very desirable companion to Molly . 
Indeed , she made something of the same kind of impression on all men . 
They were first struck with her personal appearance ; and then with her pretty deprecating manner , which appealed to them much as if she had said , `` You are wise , and I am foolish -- have mercy on my folly . '' 
It was a way she had ; it meant nothing really ; and she was hardly conscious of it herself ; but it was very captivating all the same . 
Even old Williams , the gardener , felt it ; he said to his confidante , Molly -- `` Eh , miss , but that be a rare young lady ! 
If Molly had not had the sweetest disposition in the world she might have become jealous of all the allegiance laid at Cynthia 's feet ; but she never thought of comparing the amount of admiration and love which they each received . 
It was the first time Molly had seen any of the family since she left the Hall , since Mrs. Hamley 's death ; and there was so much that she wanted to ask . 
She tried to wait patiently till Mrs. Gibson had exhausted the first gush of her infinite nothings ; and then Molly came in with her modest questions . 
-- putting each inquiry with as light and delicate a touch as if she had been dressing a wound . 
She hesitated a little , a very little , before speaking of Roger ; for just one moment the thought flitted across her mind that Osborne might feel the contrast between his own and his brother 's college career too painfully to like to have it referred to ; but then she remembered the generous brotherly love that had always existed between the two , and had just entered upon the subject , when Cynthia in obedience to her mother 's summons , came into the room , and took up her work . 
He no longer gave his undivided attention to Molly . 
He cut short his answers to her questions ; and by-and-by , without Molly 's rightly understanding how it was , he had turned towards Cynthia , and was addressing himself to her . 
Molly saw the look of content on Mrs. Gibson 's face ; perhaps it was her own mortification at not having heard all she wished to know about Roger , that gave her a keener insight than usual , but certain it is that all at once she perceived that Mrs. Gibson would not dislike a marriage between Osborne and Cynthia , and considered the present occasion as an auspicious beginning . 
Remembering the secret which she had been let into so unwillingly , Molly watched his behaviour , almost as if she had been retained in the interest of the absent wife ; but , after all , thinking as much of the possibility of his attracting Cynthia as of the unknown and mysterious Mrs. Osborne Hamley . 
But there was nothing of flirting , as far as Molly understood the meaning of the word , in either looks or words , Cynthia , too , was extremely quiet ; she was always much quieter with men than with women ; it was part of the charm of her soft allurement that she was so passive . 
But Molly was thrown out of it ; and with her heart still unsatisfied as to the details of Roger 's success , she had to stand up at last , and receive Osborne 's good-by , scarcely longer or more intimate than his farewell to Cynthia . 
Why , Molly , you were always talking of his brother -- it was Roger this , and Roger that -- I ca n't think how it was you so seldom mentioned this young man . '' 
`` I did n't know I had mentioned Mr. Roger Hamley so often , '' said Molly , blushing a little . 
`` I perfectly understand what you are thinking of , mamma , '' said Cynthia , with the greatest composure ; `` and so does Molly , I have no doubt . '' 
Did you hear him say that , though he did not like to leave his father alone just at present , yet that when his brother Roger came back from Cambridge , he should feel more at liberty ! 
And Molly , my dear , you know I wo n't forget you . 
Molly was very slow at taking this in ; but in about a minute the sense of it had reached her brain , and she went all over very red and hot ; especially as she saw that Cynthia was watching the light come into her mind with great amusement . 
`` I 'm afraid Molly is n't properly grateful , mamma . 
If I were you , I would n't exert myself to give a dinner-party on her account . 
Molly was often puzzled by Cynthia 's speeches to her mother ; and this was one of these occasions . 
But she was more anxious to say something for herself ; she was so much annoyed at the implication in Mrs. Gibson 's last words . 
Which is it , Molly ? '' 
Molly was altogether puzzled by his manners and ways . 
But that was not her idea of the conduct of a married man ; who , she imagined , ought to have a house and servants , and pay rent and taxes , and live with his wife . 
Perhaps , in the rapid flow of conversation , these small revelations were noticed by no one but Molly ; whose interest and curiosity were always hovering over the secret she had become possessed of , in spite of all her self-reproach for allowing her thoughts to dwell on what was still to be kept as a mystery . 
It was also evident to her that Osborne was not too happy at home . 
He looked ill in health ; but that might be the consequence of the real depression of spirits which Molly occasionally saw peeping out through all his pleasant surface-talk . 
Now and then , when he was talking directly to her , he referred to `` the happy days that are gone , '' or , `` to the time when my mother was alive ; '' and then his voice sank , and a gloom came over his countenance , and Molly longed to express her own deep sympathy . 
He did not often mention his father ; and Molly thought she could read in his manner , when he did , that something of the painful restraint she had noticed when she was last at the Hall still existed between them . 
Nearly all that she knew of the family interior she had heard from Mrs. Hamley , and she was uncertain as to how far her father was acquainted with them ; so she did not like to question him too closely ; nor was he a man to be so questioned as to the domestic affairs of his patients . 
Sometimes she wondered if it was a dream -- that short half-hour in the library at Hamley Hall -- when she had learnt a fact which seemed so ill-important to Osborne , yet which made so little difference in his way of life -- either in speech or action . 
Probably Molly would have been rendered much more uncomfortable in the possession of her secret if Osborne had struck her as particularly attentive in his devotion to Cynthia . 
He admired her beauty , and seemed to feel her charm ; but he would leave her side , and come to sit near Molly , if anything reminded him of his mother , about which he could talk to her , and to her alone . 
Somehow , Molly did not like to be the first to introduce Roger 's name into the conversation , so she lost many an opportunity of hearing intelligence about him . 
He had not come home since he had obtained his high place in the mathematical lists : that Molly knew ; and she knew , too , that he was working hard for something -- she supposed a fellowship -- and that was all . 
Molly caught the name in an instant , though she had not heard what had gone before . 
`` Molly , '' said Cynthia , after Mr. Osborne Hamley had gone , what sort of a man is this Roger Hamley ? 
While Molly hesitated on which point of the large round to begin her description , Mrs. Gibson struck in , -- `` It just shows what a sweet disposition Osborne Hamley is of -- that he should praise his brother as he does . 
`` What do you think of him , Molly ? '' 
`` I like him , '' said Molly . 
It was rather difficult to say all this quietly , but Molly managed to do it , quite aware that Cynthia would not rest till she had extracted some kind of an opinion out of her . 
But , aping the manners of the aristocracy as far as she knew them , she intended to `` bring out '' Molly and Cynthia on this occasion , which she regarded in something of the light of a presentation at Court . 
She even made a difficulty about their `` not being out '' when Miss Browning -- that old friend of the Gibson 's family -- came in one morning to ask the two girls to come to a friendly tea and a round game afterwards ; this mild piece of gaiety being designed as an attention to three of Mrs. Goodenough 's grandchildren -- two young ladies and their schoolboy brother -- who were staying on a visit to their grandmamma . 
`` After Easter , Molly and I shall know how to behave at a card-party , but not before , '' said Cynthia , demurely . 
But I 'm quite sure Molly will be a little lady as she always is , and always was , and I have known her from a babe . '' 
Mrs. Gibson took up arms on behalf of her own daughter , or , rather , she took up arms against Molly 's praises . 
`` I do n't think you would have called Molly a lady the other day , Miss Browning , if you had found her where I did : sitting up in a cherry-tree , six feet from the ground at least , I do assure you . '' 
but that was n't pretty , '' said Miss Browning , shaking her head at Molly . 
`` She wants the refinement which good society gives in several ways , '' said Mrs. Gibson , returning to the attack on poor Molly . 
`` Only two , Molly ! '' 
`` Only confessing that I , like Molly , want the refinements which good society gives ; therefore , please do let us go to Miss Brownings ' this evening . 
I will pledge myself for Molly that she sha n't sit in a cherry-tree ; and Molly shall see that I do n't go upstairs in an unladylike way . 
Molly saw him in a minute when she entered the little drawing-room ; but Cynthia did not . 
`` And see , my dears , '' said Miss Phoebe Browning , turning them round to the side where Roger stood waiting for his turn of speaking to Molly , `` we 've got a gentleman for you after all ! 
The moment Roger had done his cordial greeting to Molly , he asked her to introduce him to Cynthia . 
`` I want to know her -- your new sister , '' he added , with the kind smile Molly remembered so well since the very first day she had seen it directed towards her , as she sate crying under the weeping ash . 
Cynthia was standing a little behind Molly when Roger asked for this introduction . 
She was generally dressed with careless grace . 
Molly who was delicate neatness itself , used sometimes to wonder how Cynthia 's tumbled gowns , tossed away so untidily , had the art of looking so well , and falling in such graceful folds . 
Molly , in a daintily clean pink muslin , did not look half so elegantly dressed as Cynthia . 
Molly had always felt that she should have a right to a good long talk with Roger when she next saw him ; and that he would tell her , or she should gather from him all the details she so longed to hear about the Squire -- about the Hall -- about Osborne -- about himself . 
Molly saw it all , as she was sitting next to Miss Phoebe at the tea-table , acting right-hand , and passing cake , cream , sugar , with such busy assiduity that every one besides herself thought that her mind , as well as her hands , was fully occupied . 
She tried to talk to the two shy girls , as in virtue of her two years ' seniority she thought herself bound to do ; and the consequence was , she went upstairs with the twain clinging to her arms , and willing to swear an eternal friendship . 
Nothing would satisfy them but that she must sit between them at vingt-un ; and they were so desirous of her advice in the important point of fixing the price of the counters that she could not ever have joined in the animated conversation going on between Roger and Cynthia . 
Molly caught a few words occasionally in intervals of business . 
So Cynthia was hearing all about Cambridge , and the very examination about which Molly had felt such keen interest , without having ever been able to have her questions answered by a competent person ; and Roger , to whom she had always looked as the final and most satisfactory answerer , was telling the whole of what she wanted to know , and she could not listen . 
It took all her patience to make up little packets of counters , and settle , as the arbiter of the game , whether it would be better for the round or the oblong counters to be reckoned as six . 
Molly thought the game never would end . 
She had no particular turn for gambling in her ; and whatever her card might be , she regularly put on two counters , indifferent as to whether she won or lost . 
Cynthia , on the contrary , staked high , and was at one time very rich , but ended by being in debt to Molly something like six shillings . 
She had forgotten her purse , she said , and was obliged to borrow from the more provident Molly , who was aware that the round game of which Miss Browning had spoken to her was likely to require money . 
Molly thought it was going to last till midnight ; but punctually , as the clock struck nine , the little maid-servant staggered in under the weight of a tray loaded with sandwiches , cakes , and jelly . 
This brought on a general move ; and Roger , who appeared to have been on the watch for something of the kind , came and took a chair by Molly . 
`` I am so glad to see you again -- it seems such a long time since Christmas , '' said he , dropping his voice , and not alluding more exactly to the day when she had left the Hall . 
`` It is a long time , '' she replied ; `` we are close to Easter now . 
`` I missed yours though , Molly , '' said he , kindly . 
`` Glad and proud too , '' said she . 
`` But tell me something about the senior wranglership , please , '' said Molly . 
`` Cynthia looked very much interested , '' said Molly . 
`` Yes , I think so , '' replied Molly , eagerly foreseeing what was to come . 
`` Betty has left us , '' said Molly , sadly . 
The short conversation had been very pleasant , and his manner had had just the brotherly kindness of old times ; but it was not quite the manner he had to Cynthia ; and Molly half thought she would have preferred the latter . 
The whole affair was as trifling and commonplace as could be in itself ; hardly worth noticing ; and yet Molly did notice it , and felt uneasy ; she could not tell why . 
Both Cynthia and Molly thought of the possibility of their taking the two Osborne girls back to their grandmother 's , and so saving them a wet walk ; but Cynthia got the start in speaking about it ; and the thanks and the implied praise for thoughtfulness were hers . 
`` Well -- and Molly , '' said Mrs. Gibson , who piqued herself on being an impartial stepmother , and who always tried hard to make Molly talk as much as Cynthia , -- `` what sort of an evening have you had ? '' 
asked Molly . 
`` Lady Harriet 's always full of fancies : she likes persons to-day , and dislikes them to-morrow , '' said Mrs. Gibson , who was touched on her sore point whenever Molly quoted Lady Harriet , or said anything to imply ever so transitory an intimacy with her . 
`` If it was one of your giant-gapes , papa , I should call it more than a hint , '' said Molly . 
`` I do n't know , '' replied the latter , shortly , as she lighted her bed-candle . 
Molly was out in the garden with Williams , planning the arrangement of some new flower-beds , and deep in her employment of placing pegs upon the lawn to mark out the different situations , when , standing up to mark the effect , her eye was caught by the figure of a gentleman , sitting with his back to the light , leaning forwards and talking , or listening , eagerly . 
Molly knew the shape of the head perfectly , and hastily began to put off her brown-holland gardening apron , emptying the pockets as she spoke to Williams . 
`` You can finish it now , I think , '' said she . 
Molly gave up her impulse in a moment . 
She saw that the old gardener was really perplexed , yet that he was as anxious as he could be to do his best . 
So she went over the ground again , pegging and explaining till the wrinkled brow was smooth again , and he kept saying , `` I see , miss . 
So she could leave him , and go in . 
But just as she was close to the garden door , Roger came out . 
It really was for once a case of virtue its own reward , for it was far pleasanter to her to have him in a tête-à-tête , however short , than in the restraint of Mrs. Gibson 's and Cynthia 's presence . 
`` I only just found out where you were , Molly . 
Then Molly said , -- `` How is the squire ? 
certainly not , '' said Molly , hastily . 
Then , with a wrench , changing the subject , while Molly still thought of what he had been telling her , he broke out , -- `` I ca n't tell you how much I like Miss Kirkpatrick , Molly . 
`` Yes , '' said Molly , half smiling . 
`` I 'm very fond of her ; and I think I like her better every day I know her . 
But how quickly you have found out her virtues ! '' 
`` Bitter beer '' came into Molly 's mind ; but what she said was , `` And are you coming ? '' 
Good luck to your flower-garden , Molly . '' 
All this had taken place before Roger 's first meeting with Molly and Cynthia at Miss Browning 's ; and the little dinner on the Friday at Mr. Gibson 's , which followed in due sequence . 
Cynthia and Molly looked their best , which was all the duty Mrs. Gibson absolutely required of them , as she was willing enough to take her full share in the conversation . 
She was thinking of something else ; Molly was trying to understand with all her might . 
`` Ah , Mr. Gibson , I have found out before now that you have no soul for poetry ; and Molly there is your own child . 
She reads such deep books -- all about facts and figures : she 'll be quite a bluestocking by-and-by . '' 
`` Mamma , '' said Molly , reddening , `` you think it was a deep book because there were the shapes of the different cells of bees in it ! 
`` Never mind , Molly , '' said Osborne . 
`` Though it may be logic , I , for one , can understand what Mr. Roger Hamley said just now ; and I read some of Molly 's books ; and whether it was deep or not I found it very interesting -- more so than I should think the ` Prisoner of Chillon ' now-a-days . 
Molly is worth twenty of you . '' 
`` I quite agree with you , mamma , '' said Cynthia , turning round to take Molly 's hand . 
`` Yes ; but she ought not to be , '' said Mrs. Gibson , still irritated . 
`` I 'm afraid I had rather be a dunce than a blue-stocking , '' said Molly ; for the term had a little annoyed her , and the annoyance was rankling still . 
`` Come , Molly , do n't look so grave and thoughtful , '' exclaimed Cynthia . 
`` Yes ; mamma is going to take Molly and me . '' 
It would be dull without her . '' 
You must be very fond of Molly ! '' 
Osborne and Roger knowing that the wife of the former was a Frenchwoman , and , conscious of each other 's knowledge , felt doubly awkward ; while Molly was as much confused as though she herself were secretly married . 
He caught Molly 's troubled eyes and heightened colour , and he saw that she was feeling this contretemps more seriously than she needed to do . 
He moved to a seat by her , and half whispered , `` Too late a warning , is it not ? '' 
Molly looked up at him as he leant towards her , and replied in the same tone -- `` Oh , I am so sorry ! '' 
Molly could not tell what to reply to this , so she hung her head and kept silence . 
Yet she could see that Roger did not change his attitude or remove his hand from the back of his chair , and , impelled by curiosity to find out the cause of his stillness , she looked up at him at length , and saw his gaze fixed on the two who were near the piano . 
`` They are talking about France , '' said Roger , in answer to Molly 's unspoken question . 
It was all very well to ask this civilly , but Molly thought it would have been better to wait for her answer . 
Molly suddenly felt as if she could scarcely keep from crying -- a minute ago he had been so near to her , and talking so pleasantly and confidentially ; and now he almost seemed as if he had forgotten her existence . 
She thought that all this was wrong ; and she exaggerated its wrongness to herself ; `` mean , '' and `` envious of Cynthia , '' and `` ill-natured , '' and `` selfish , '' were the terms she kept applying to herself ; but it did no good , she was just as naughty at the last as at the first . 
Mrs. Gibson broke into the state of things which Molly thought was to endure for ever . 
Her work had been intricate up to this time , and had required a great deal of counting ; so she had had no time to attend to her duties , one of which she always took to be to show herself to the world as an impartial stepmother . 
Cynthia had played and sung , and now she must give Molly her turn of exhibition . 
Molly , on the contrary , had an excellent ear , if she had ever been well taught ; and both from inclination and conscientious perseverance of disposition , she would go over an incorrect passage for twenty times . 
But she was very shy of playing in company ; and when forced to do it , she went through her performance heavily , and hated her handiwork more than any one . 
`` Now , you must play a little , Molly , '' said Mrs. Gibson ; `` play us that beautiful piece of Kalkbrenner 's , my dear . '' 
Molly looked up at her stepmother with beseeching eyes ; but it only brought out another form of request , still more like a command . 
So there was a disturbance made in the little group at the piano , and Molly sate down to her martyrdom . 
said she to Osborne , who was standing behind her ready to turn over . 
Osborne remained where he was in spite of her appeal , and gave her what little approval she got ; for Mrs. Gibson , exhausted by her previous labour of counting her stitches , fell asleep in her comfortable sofa-corner near the fire ; and Roger , who began at first to talk a little in compliance with Molly 's request , found his têete-à-tête with Cynthia so agreeable , that Molly lost her place several times in trying to catch a sudden glimpse of Cynthia sitting at her work , and Roger by her , intent on catching her low replies to what he was saying . 
said Molly , standing up quickly as soon as she had finished the eighteen dreary pages ; `` and I think I will never sit down to play again ! '' 
She did not speak with vehemence or in anger ; but with such quiet resolution that Molly looked up in surprise . 
She saw that Cynthia was keeping her eyes fixed on her work , and that she had no intention of meeting any one 's gaze , or giving any further explanation . 
Mrs. Gibson , too , looked perplexed , and once or twice seemed on the point of asking some question ; but she was not angry as Molly had fully expected . 
She watched Cynthia furtively and in silence for a minute or two , and then said that , after all , she could not conveniently give up her dressing-room ; and , altogether , they had better say no more about it . 
Molly and Cynthia were out walking when she came -- doing some errands for Mrs. Gibson , who had a secret idea that Lady Harriet would call at the particular time she did , and had a not uncommon wish to talk to her ladyship without the corrective presence of any member of her own family . 
Mrs. Gibson did not give Molly the message of remembrance that Lady Harriet had left for her ; but she imparted various pieces of news relating to the Towers with great animation and interest . 
Molly saw the shade of annoyance through the drollery ; she was beginning to see it oftener than she liked , not that she reasoned upon it , or that she consciously traced the annoyance to its source ; but she could not help feeling uneasy in herself when she knew that her father was in the least put out . 
She came dancing into the drawing-room , flourishing the flowers about in either hand , and danced up to Molly , who was trying to settle to her reading , by way of helping on the time till the evening came . 
`` Look , Molly , look ! 
asked Molly , taking hold of one , and examining it with tender delight at its beauty . 
said Molly . 
said Molly , reddening a little . 
Molly , I 'm sure these red flowers will just match your coral necklace and bracelets , '' said Cynthia , pulling out some camellias , then a rare kind of flower . 
exclaimed Molly . 
It is quite spoilt , '' said Molly . 
Cynthia went on arranging the crimson buds and flowers to her taste . 
Molly said nothing , but kept watching Cynthia 's nimble fingers tying up the wreath . 
Cynthia took the utmost pains in dressing Molly , leaving the clever housemaid to her mother 's exclusive service . 
Molly looked upon the ceremony of dressing for a first ball as rather a serious ceremony ; certainty as an anxious proceeding . 
Cynthia was almost as anxious as herself ; only Molly wanted her appearance to be correct and unnoticed ; and Cynthia was desirous of setting off Molly 's rather peculiar charms -- her cream-coloured skin , her profusion of curly black hair , her beautiful long-shaped eyes , with their shy , loving expression . 
Cynthia took up so much time in dressing Molly to her mind , that she herself had to perform her toilette in a hurry . 
Molly , ready dressed , sate on a low chair in Cynthia 's room , watching the pretty creature 's rapid movements , as she stood in her petticoat before the glass , doing up her hair , with quick certainly of effect . 
At length , Molly heaved a long sigh , and said , -- `` I should like to be pretty ! '' 
`` Why , Molly , '' said Cynthia , turning round with an exclamation on the tip of her tongue ; but when she caught the innocent , wistful look on Molly 's face , she instinctively checked what she was going to say , and , half-smiling to her own reflection in the glass , she said , -- `` The French girls would tell you , to believe that you were pretty would make you so . '' 
Molly paused before replying , -- `` I suppose they would mean that if you knew you were pretty , you would never think about your looks ; you would be so certain of being liked , and that it is caring -- '' `` Listen ! 
as Molly , being nearer to the door , offered to take it and pass it to Cynthia . 
She held the note so that Molly could read it at the same time she did . 
asked Molly . 
`` It is Mr. Preston , '' said she , in answer to Molly . 
`` I shall not dance with him ; and here go his flowers -- '' Into the very middle of the embers , which she immediately stirred down upon the beautiful shining petals as if she wished to annihilate them as soon as possible . 
Her voice had never been raised ; it was as sweet as usual ; nor , though her movements were prompt enough , were they hasty or violent . 
said Molly , `` those beautiful flowers ! 
`` It was an impertinent familiar note , '' said Molly . 
they are calling for us , '' exclaimed Molly , and with quick step , yet careful of their draperies , they made their way downstairs to the place where Mr. and Mrs. Gibson awaited them . 
And Molly suddenly began to admire her father as a handsome man , when she saw him now , in full evening attire . 
But in the days when Molly and Cynthia were young -- before railroads were , and before their consequences , the excursiontrains , which take every one up to London now-a-days , there to see their fill of gay crowds and fine dresses -- to go to an annual charity ball , even though all thought of dancing had passed by years ago , and without any of the responsibilities of a chaperone , was a very allowable and favourite piece of dissipation to all the kindly old maids who thronged the country towns of England . 
She imparted some of her feelings to Molly , sitting by her , longing to dance , and beating time to the spirited music with one of her pretty little feet . 
Molly , too , though not so good a dancer as Cynthia , and , from her timidity , less graceful and easy , was becoming engaged pretty deeply ; and , it must be confessed , she was longing to dance every dance , no matter with whom . 
She was feeling very much annoyed with the whole proceedings of the evening when she was aware of some one standing by her ; and , turning a little to one side , she saw Mr. Preston keeping guard , as it were , over the seats which Molly and Cynthia had just quitted . 
She took that vacant next to Mr. Preston , leaving that by her mother for Molly 's occupation . 
Molly , do you know whom you have been dancing with ? 
`` That accounts for his being so well up in all the books I 've been wanting to hear about , '' said Molly , eagerly , but with a spice of malice in her mind . 
`` He really was very pleasant , mamma , '' she added ; `` and he looks quite a gentleman , and dances beautifully ! '' 
You know to-night it is a charity ball , and papa said everybody danced with everybody , '' said Molly , in a pleading tone of voice ; for she could not quite and entirely enjoy herself if she was out of harmony with any one . 
Mr. Preston took the seat now left empty much to Molly 's annoyance . 
At first she feared lest he should be going to ask her to dance ; but , instead , he put out his hand for Cynthia 's nosegay , which she had left on rising , entrusted to Molly . 
It had suffered considerably from the heat of the room , and was no longer full and fresh ; not so much so as Molly 's , which had not , in the first instance , been pulled to pieces in picking out the scarlet flowers which now adorned Molly 's hair , and which had since been cherished with more care . 
But Molly , faithful to what she imagined would be Cynthia 's wish , refused to allow him to touch it ; she only held it a little nearer . 
`` Yes , '' said Molly , rather intimidated by the tone in which this was said . 
Of course , I do n't mean to say we could be sorry for any one 's kindness ; but two such lovely nosegays had been sent from Hamley Hall -- you may see how beautiful from what Molly holds in her hand -- and they had come before yours , Mr. Preston . '' 
exclaimed Molly , eagerly . 
said Mr. Preston , with a certain accent of pleasure in his voice , as though he were glad she set so little store by the nosegay ; and he walked off to stand behind Cynthia in the quadrille that was being danced ; and Molly saw him making her reply to him -- against her will , Molly was sure . 
But , somehow , his face and manner implied power over her . 
She looked grave , deaf , indifferent , indignant , defiant ; but , after a half-whispered speech to Cynthia , at the conclusion of the dance , she evidently threw him an impatient consent to what he was asking , for he walked off with a disagreeable smile of satisfaction on his handsome face . 
Lady Harriet , who was rather different to Miss Piper , and no more minded crossing the room alone than if the lookers-on were so many cabbages , spied the Gibson party pretty quickly out , and came across to them . 
Why , little one -LRB- to Molly -RRB- , how nice you 're looking ! 
Then turning to Molly Lady Harriet asked , -- `` Have you been dancing much , Miss Gibson ? '' 
It was a simple question enough ; but Lady Harriet 's speaking at all to Molly had become to Mrs. Gibson almost like shaking a red rag at a bull ; it was the one thing sure to put her out of temper . 
But she would not have shown this to Lady Harriet for the world ; only she contrived to baffle any endeavours at further conversation between the two , by placing herself betwixt Lady Harriet and Molly whom the former asked to sit down in the absent Cynthia 's room . 
`` What do you say , Molly ? '' 
said Lady Harriet , suddenly turning her eyes on Molly 's face . 
`` I do n't know about popularity or votes , '' said Molly , rather unwillingly . 
she added . 
`` That 's a very neat and diplomatic answer , '' said Lady Harriet , smiling , and tapping Molly 's cheek with her fan . 
`` Molly knows nothing about it , '' said Mrs. Gibson , a little off her guard . 
`` It would be very impertinent if she or any one else questioned Lady Cumnor 's perfect right to come when she chose . '' 
`` Molly , I can not have you speaking so to Lady Harriet , '' said Mrs. Gibson , as soon as she was left alone with her stepdaughter . 
`` But I must speak if she asks me questions , '' pleaded Molly . 
`` I do n't know how to help it , '' said Molly . 
Molly felt innocent enough , so she offered no justification of herself , and made no reply . 
Indeed she was more occupied in watching Cynthia . 
She could not understand the change that seemed to have come over her . 
She was dancing , it was true , with the same lightness and grace as before , but the smooth bounding motion , as of a feather blown onwards by the wind , was gone . 
She was conversing with her partner , but without the soft animation that usually shone out upon her countenance . 
And when she was brought back to her seat Molly noticed her changed colour , and her dreamily abstracted eyes . 
asked she , in a very low voice . 
Molly understood that Cynthia wished for quietness and silence . 
But what was her surprise , after the speeches that had passed before , and the implication of Cynthia 's whole manner to Mr. Preston , to see him come up to her , and , without a word , offer his arm and lead her away to dance . 
It appeared to strike Mrs. Gibson as something remarkable ; for , forgetting her late passage at arms with Molly , she asked , wonderingly , as if almost distrusting the evidence of her senses , -- `` Is Cynthia going to dance with Mr. Preston ? '' 
Molly had scarcely time to answer before she herself was led off by her partner . 
She could hardly attend to him or to the figures of the quadrille for watching for Cynthia among the moving forms . 
When she and Molly joined each other again , the shade on Cynthia 's face had deepened to gloom . 
And you shall begin with Molly Gibson , your friend the doctor 's daughter . 
there was nothing for him but to follow his sister 's very explicit lead , and Molly and he walked off to their places , each heartily wishing their dance together well over . 
It would be so much more agreeable to be sitting even at the fag-end of nobility than here on a bench with everybody ; hoping that everybody would see Molly dancing away with a lord , yet vexed that the chance had so befallen that Molly instead of Cynthia was the young lady singled out ; wondering if simplicity of dress was now become the highest fashion , and pondering on the possibility of cleverly inducing Lady Harriet to introduce Lord Albert Monson to her own beautiful daughter , Cynthia . 
Molly found Lord Hollingford , the wise and learned Lord Hollingford , strangely stupid in understanding the mystery of `` Cross hands and back again , down the middle and up again . '' 
He perceived that he had performed his part very badly , and apologized to Molly when once they had arrived at that haven of comparative peace ; and he expressed his regret so simply and heartily that she felt at her ease with him at once , especially when he confided to her his reluctance at having to dance at all , and his only doing it under his sister 's compulsion . 
To Molly he was an elderly widower , almost as old as her father , and by-and-by they got into very pleasant conversation . 
She learnt from him that Roger Hamley had just been publishing a paper in some scientific periodical , which had excited considerable attention , as it was intended to confute some theory of a great French physiologist , and Roger 's article proved the writer to be possessed of a most unusual amount of knowledge on the subject . 
This piece of news was of great interest to Molly ; and , in her questions , she herself evinced so much intelligence , and a mind so well prepared for the reception of information , that Lord Hollingford at any rate would have felt his quest of popularity a very easy affair indeed , if he might have gone on talking quietly to Molly during the rest of the evening . 
When he took her back to her place , he found Mr. Gibson there , and fell into talk with him , until Lady Harriet once more came to stir him up to his duties . 
In the midst of their conversation , as they stood close by Mrs. Gibson , Lord Hollingford saw Molly in the distance , and interrupted himself to say , `` What a charming little lady that daughter of yours is ! 
It is very likely that if Molly had been a stupid listener , Lord Hollingford would not have discovered her beauty ; or the converse might be asserted -- if she had not been young and pretty , he would not have exerted himself to talk on scientific subjects in a manner which she could understand . 
But in whatever way Molly had won his approbation and admiration , there was no doubt that she had earned it somehow . 
And , when she next returned to her place , Mrs. Gibson greeted her with soft words and a gracious smile ; for it does not require much reasoning power to discover , that if it is a very fine thing to be mother-in-law to a very magnificent three-tailed bashaw , it presupposes that the wife who makes the connection between the two parties is in harmony with her mother . 
She only wished that the happy chance had fallen to Cynthia 's instead of to Molly 's lot . 
But Molly was a docile , sweet creature , very pretty , and remarkably intelligent , as my lord had said . 
The next morning she awoke irritable and fatigued ; and a little of the same feeling oppressed both Cynthia and Molly . 
The former was lounging in the window-seat , holding a three-days ' - old newspaper in her hand , which she was making a pretence of reading , when she was startled by her mother 's saying , -- `` Cynthia ! 
There was some French book that Molly was reading -- Le Règne Animal , I think . '' 
said Molly , blushing . 
Rather to Molly 's surprise , Cynthia did not reply a word ; but dutifully went and brought down from among her Boulogne school-books , Le Siècle de Louis XIV . 
But after a while Molly saw that this `` improving reading '' was just as much a mere excuse for Cynthia 's thinking her own thoughts as the newspaper had been . 
It contained an invitation to dinner to meet M. Geoffroi St. H. , whose views on certain subjects Roger had been advocating in the article Lord Hollingford had spoken about to Molly , when he danced with her at the Hollingford ball . 
Molly , who had promised herself fully as much enjoyment in talking over the past gaiety with Cynthia as in the evening itself , was disappointed when she found that all conversation on the subject was rather evaded than encouraged . 
She repeatedly used the same language in speaking about it , till Molly knew the sentences and their sequence even to irritation . 
`` He only sent one nosegay , and that was for Cynthia , '' said Molly , looking up from her work . 
Molly caught a sight of Cynthia 's face before she bent down again to her sewing . 
Both she and her mother hastened to speak as soon as Molly had finished , but Cynthia 's voice was choked with passion , and Mrs. Gibson had the word . 
Cynthia was silent for a moment ; then she said , `` I used some of your flowers , Mr. Hamley to dress Molly 's hair . 
It was a great temptation , for the colour so exactly matched her coral ornaments ; but I believe she thought it treacherous to disturb the arrangement , so I ought to take all the blame on myself . '' 
He did not hear Molly saying in as soft a voice as if she were talking to herself , `` I wore mine just as they were sent , '' for Mrs. Gibson came in with a total change of subject . 
Molly was , however , the first to discover the nature of Roger 's attention . 
The first time they saw him after the ball , it came out to her observant eyes . 
Molly watched this fading with tender anxiety , but to all her questions as to whether she had felt over-fatigued with her dancing , whether anything had occurred to annoy her , and all such inquiries , she replied in languid negatives . 
Once Molly touched on Mr. Preston 's name , and found that this was a subject on which Cynthia was raw ; now , Cynthia 's face lighted up with spirit , and her whole body showed her ill-repressed agitation , but she only said a few sharp words , expressive of anything but kindly feeling towards the gentleman , and then bade Molly never name his name to her again . 
Still , the latter could not imagine that he was more than intensely distasteful to her friend , as well as to herself ; he could not be the cause of Cynthia 's present indisposition . 
But this indisposition lasted so many days without change or modification , that even Mrs. Gibson noticed it , and Molly became positively uneasy . 
Then , again , when Cynthia did not rally , Mrs. Gibson grew impatient , and accused her of being fanciful and lazy ; at length , and partly at Molly 's instance , there came an appeal to Mr. Gibson , and a professional examination of the supposed invalid , which Cynthia hated more than anything , especially when the verdict was , that there was nothing very much the matter , only a general lowness of tone , and depression of health and spirits , which would soon be remedied by tonics , and , meanwhile , she was not to be roused to exertion . 
-- you and Molly are only too kind to me , '' her eyes filling with tears . 
All the time he was trying to talk to Mrs. Gibson in reply to her civil platitudes , he was studying Cynthia ; and at the first convenient pause he came and stood before Molly , so as to interpose his person between her and the rest of the room ; for some visitors had come in subsequent to his entrance . 
`` Molly , how ill your sister is looking ! 
Has she had advice ? 
Now Molly 's love for Cynthia was fast and unwavering , but if anything tried it , it was the habit Roger had fallen into of always calling Cynthia Molly 's sister in speaking to the latter . 
she was over-tired by the ball . 
Papa has seen her , and says she will be all right very soon . '' 
`` I wonder if she wants change of air ? '' 
`` I wish -- I do wish we could have her at the Hall ; you and your mother too , of course . 
Molly felt as if a visit to the Hall under such circumstances would be altogether so different an affair to all her former ones , that she could hardly tell if she should like it or not . 
`` It was very pleasant , '' said Molly , quietly . 
`` No , I was not , '' said Molly , rather bluntly . 
He might think her unfeeling if he liked ; she felt as if she had only too much feeling just then , for it was bringing on her a strange contraction of heart . 
But he was too inherently good himself to put any harsh construction on her speech . 
Just before he went away , while he was ostensibly holding her hand and wishing her good-by , he said to her in a voice too low to be generally heard , -- `` Is there anything I could do for your sister ? 
Then , receiving no affirmative look or word from Molly in reply to this suggestion , he went on , -- `` Or flowers ? 
`` I am sure she will like them , '' said Molly . 
In her quiet way , she contrived to pass many slights upon Roger ; but the darts rebounded from his generous nature that could not have imagined her motives , and fastened themselves on Molly . 
She had often been called naughty and passionate when she was a child ; and she thought now that she began to understand that she really had a violent temper . 
What seemed neither to hurt Roger nor annoy Cynthia made Molly 's blood boil ; and now she had once discovered Mrs. Gibson 's wish to make Roger 's visits shorter and less frequent , she was always on the watch for indications of this desire . 
Or , as soon as Roger came with his bunch of early roses , it was desirable for Cynthia to go and rest in her own room , while Molly had to accompany Mrs. Gibson on some improvised errand or call . 
Mrs. Gibson was sitting at her embroidery in the drawing-room , and the two girls were at the window , Cynthia laughing at Molly 's earnest endeavours to imitate the French accent in which the former had been reading a page of Voltaire . 
For the duty , or the farce , of settling to `` improving reading '' in the mornings was still kept up although Lord Hollingford , the unconscious suggester of the idea , had gone back to town without making any of the efforts to see Molly again that Mrs. Gibson anticipated on the night of the ball . 
`` I agree with you , '' said Mrs. Gibson , replying to him before either Cynthia or Molly could speak , though he addressed his words to them . 
Molly would perhaps have been more pained if she had not seen Cynthia 's colour rise . 
I settle myself to my own employment regularly after breakfast till lunch-time ; and it is my wish to keep Cynthia and Molly to a course of improving reading and study -- so desirable for young people of their age , if they are ever to become intelligent , companionable women ; but with early visitors it is quite impossible to observe any regularity of habits . '' 
All this was said in that sweet , false tone which of late had gone through Molly like the scraping of a slate-pencil on a slate . 
Why should not he , he asked himself , believe her ? 
turning a little to Molly . 
He said this to both Molly and Cynthia , but in his heart he addressed it to the latter . 
When he had left the room , Molly 's heart was quite full . 
She had watched his face , and read something of his feelings : his disappointment at their non-acquiescence in his plan of a day 's pleasure in Hurstwood , the delayed conviction that his presence was not welcome to the wife of his old friend , which had come so slowly upon him -- perhaps , after all , these things touched Molly more keenly than they did him . 
`` And the two brothers have always been treated so exactly alike by their friends , and there has been such a strong friendship between them , that it is no wonder Roger thinks he may be welcome where Osborne is allowed to come at all hours , '' continued Molly , in high dudgeon . 
Molly 's tears were brimming over at these words ; she could have kissed Cynthia for her warm partisanship , but , afraid of betraying emotion , and `` making a scene , '' as Mrs. Gibson called any signs of warm feeling , she laid down her book hastily , and ran upstairs to her room , and locked the door in order to breathe freely . 
During all the months that had elapsed since Mrs. Hamley 's death , Molly had wondered many a time about the secret she had so unwittingly become possessed of that last day in the Hall library . 
It seemed so utterly strange and unheard-of a thing to her inexperienced mind , that a man should be married , and yet not live with his wife -- that a son should have entered into the holy state of matrimony without his father 's knowledge , and without being recognized as the husband of some one known or unknown by all those with whom he came in daily contact , that she felt occasionally as if that little ten minutes of revelation must have been a vision in a dream . 
There had been the great sad event of their mother 's death to fill their minds on the next occasion of their meeting Molly ; and since then long pauses of intercourse had taken place ; so that she sometimes felt as if each of the brothers must have forgotten how she had come to know their important secret . 
She often found herself entirely forgetting it , but perhaps the consciousness of it was present to her unawares , and enabled her to comprehend the real nature of Osborne 's feelings towards Cynthia . 
Strange to say , in these latter days Molly had looked upon Osborne 's relation to herself as pretty much the same as that in which at one time she had regarded Roger 's ; and she thought of the former as of some one as nearly a brother both to Cynthia and herself , as any young man could well be , whom they had not known in childhood , and who was in nowise related to them . 
Osborne 's conversation and ways might very possibly have been just the same as before , had he been thrown amongst new people ; but Molly only saw him in their own circle in which he was on terms of decided intimacy . 
Still there was no doubt that he was really improved , though perhaps not to the extent for which Molly gave him credit ; and this exaggeration on her part arose very naturally from the fact , that he , perceiving Roger 's warm admiration for Cynthia , withdrew a little out of his brother 's way ; and used to go and talk to Molly in order not to intrude himself between Roger and Cynthia . 
Of the two , perhaps , Osborne preferred Molly ; to her he needed not to talk if the mood was not on him -- they were on those happy terms where silence is permissible , and where efforts to act against the prevailing mood of the mind are not required . 
Sometimes , indeed , when Osborne was in the humour to be critical and fastidious as of yore , he used to vex Roger by insisting upon it that Molly was prettier than Cynthia . 
Five years hence the beautiful Cynthia 's red and white will have become just a little coarse , and her figure will have thickened , while Molly 's will only have developed into more perfect grace . 
I do n't believe the girl has done growing yet ; I 'm sure she 's taller than when I first saw her last summer . '' 
`` Come do n't go on trying to match her eyes as if you were a draper , and they a bit of ribbon ; say at once ` her eyes are loadstars , ' and have done with it ! 
I set up Molly 's grey eyes and curling black lashes , long odds above the other young woman 's ; but , of course , it 's all a matter of taste . '' 
She was a capital companion for Molly ; and the two were evidently very fond of each other . 
At any rate , she was harmless , and wonderfully just to Molly for a stepmother . 
She piqued herself upon this indeed , and would often call attention to the fact of her being unlike other women in this respect . 
Jest then sudden tears came into Mr. Gibson 's eyes , as he remembered how quiet and undemonstrative his little Molly had become in her general behaviour to him ; but how once or twice , when they had met upon the stairs , or were otherwise unwitnesse , she had caught him and kissed him -- hand or cheek -- in a sad passionateness of affection . 
Molly and Cynthia had much to tell him of the small proceedings since he went away , or to relate the conclusions of half-accomplished projects . 
Cynthia was often on the point of some gay , careless inquiry as to where he had been , and what he had been doing ; but Molly , who conjectured the truth , as often interfered to spare him the pain of equivocation -- a pain that her tender conscience would have felt for him , much more than he would have felt it for himself . 
There was a twinkle in his eye as he said this , that would have betrayed his humour to any observer ; but Mr. Gibson , Cynthia , and Molly were all attacking Osborne on the subject of some literary preference he had expressed , and Dr. Nicholls had Mrs. Gibson quite at his mercy . 
Mr. Gibson had to go out and pay some calls , so he left the three together ; and after a while they adjourned into the garden , Osborne lounging on a chair , while Molly employed herself busily in tying up carnations , and Cynthia gathered flowers in her careless , graceful way . 
Molly , you see , devotes herself to the useful , and I to the ornamental . 
exclaimed Molly . 
said Molly , resting on her light spade . 
`` I do n't like them at all in any way , '' said Molly . 
`` But , perhaps , it 's rather sour grapes with me , '' she added . 
`` For you , perhaps , '' said Molly ; `` but not for me . '' 
If you dare me , Molly , I ` will try the experiment , and you 'll see with what success . '' 
said Molly , in a hurry . 
asked Molly . 
but he 's coming to take Mr. Sheepshanks ' place , and then he will live here altogether , '' said Molly . 
`` Molly ! 
said Cynthia , in quite a different tone of voice to that in which she had been speaking hitherto . 
But Molly had set herself a task to dig up such roots as had already flowered , and to put down some bedding-out plants in their stead . 
Tired and heated as she was she finished it , and then went upstairs to rest , and change her dress . 
According to her wont , she sought for Cynthia ; there was no reply to her soft knock at the bedroom-door opposite to her own , and , thinking that Cynthia might have fallen asleep , and be lying uncovered in the draught of the open window , she went in softly . 
She was very still ; and Molly took a shawl , and was going to place it over her , when she opened her eyes , and spoke , -- `` Is that you , dear ? 
She shut her eyes again , and remained quite quiet for a few minutes longer . 
Then she started up into a sitting posture , pushed her hair away from her forehead and burning eyes , and gazed intently at Molly . 
asked Molly , aghast . 
You 're over-tired , '' continued she , sitting down on the bed , and taking Cynthia 's passive hand , and stroking it softly -- a mode of caressing that had come down to her from her mother -- whether as an hereditary instinct , or as a lingering remembrance of the tender ways of the dead woman , Mr. Gibson often wondered within himself when he observed it . 
`` Oh , how good you are , Molly ! 
`` Then , do n't go and be tossed about any more , '' said Molly , softly . 
But , you see , no one ever loved me like you , and , I think , your father -- does n't he , Molly ? 
said she , at last , heaving a great sigh ; but , then , smiling as she caught Molly 's anxious face , `` I suppose there 's no escaping one 's doom ; and anywhere else I should be much more forlorn and unprotected . '' 
asked Molly , really anxious to probe the mystery -- if , indeed , there was one -- to the bottom , in the hope of some remedy being found for the distress Cynthia was in when first Molly entered . 
Again Cynthia was lost in thought ; then , catching the echo of Molly 's last words in her mind , she said , -- ``` With whom ? ' 
Why , Molly , child , how pale and grave you look ! '' 
said she , kissing her all of a sudden . 
This had the effect that Cynthia intended ; the daintily clean Molly became conscious of her soiled condition , which she had forgotten while she had been attending to Cynthia , and she hastily withdrew to her own room . 
-- Yours ever , `` Haycinth C. F. Gibson . '' 
Molly sate by , and wondered how it would all end , or , rather , how soon it would all end , for she thought that no girl could resist such reverent passion ; and on Roger 's side there could be no doubt -- alas ! 
Cynthia and Molly had both spoken of the brothers with familiar regard , implying considerable intimacy ; their flowers had been preferred to his on the occasion of the ball ; most people spoke well of them ; and Mr. Preston had an animal 's instinctive jealousy and combativeness against all popular young men . 
It might be that Molly 's spirits were more depressed at this time than they were in general ; or that Cynthia was exultant , unawares to herself , in the amount of attention and admiration she was receiving , from Roger by day , from Mr. Preston in the evening , but the two girls seemed to have parted company in cheerfulness . 
Molly was always gentle , but very grave and silent . 
If Molly had not been so entirely loyal to her friend , she might have thought his constant brilliancy a little tiresome when brought into every-day life ; it was not the sunshiny rest of a placid lake , it was rather the glitter of the pieces of a broken mirror , which confuses and bewilders . 
If there was a little kindness to be done to either Mr. Gibson or Molly , Cynthia was just as ready as ever to do it ; nor did she refuse to do anything her mother wished , however fidgety might be the humour that prompted the wish . 
Molly was dejected , she knew not why . 
Her stepmother had whimsical moods ; and if Cynthia displeased her , she would oppress Molly with small kindnesses and pseudo-affection . 
Or else everything was wrong , the world was out of joint , and Molly had failed in her mission to set it right , and was to be blamed accordingly . 
But Molly was of too steady a disposition to be much moved by the changeableness of an unreasonable person . 
She might be annoyed , or irritated , but she was not depressed . 
As long as Roger was drawn to Cynthia , and sought her of his own accord , it had been a sore pain and bewilderment of Molly 's heart ; but it was a straightforward attraction , and one which Molly acknowledged , in her humility and great power of loving , to be the most natural thing in the world . 
She would look at Cynthia 's beauty and grace , and feel as if no one could resist it . 
She was indignant at what she considered Mrs. Gibson 's obtuseness to so much goodness and worth ; and when she called Roger a `` country lout , '' or any other depreciative epithet , Molly would pinch herself in order to keep silent . 
But after all , those were peaceful days compared to the present , when she , seeing the wrong side of the tapestry , after the wont of those who dwell in the same house with a plotter , became aware that Mrs. Gibson had totally changed her behaviour to Roger , from some cause unknown to Molly . 
Then in their family conversations at home , Mrs. Gibson was constantly making projects for throwing Roger and Cynthia together , with so evident a betrayal of her wish to bring about an engagement , that Molly chafed at the net spread so evidently , and at Roger 's blindness in coming so willingly to be entrapped . 
She forgot his previous willingness , his former evidences of manly fondness for the beautiful Cynthia ; she only saw plots of which he was the victim , and Cynthia the conscious if passive bait . 
To be sure , this rôle would have been played by her unconsciously ; the things prescribed were what she would naturally have done ; but because they were prescribed -- by implication only , it is true -- Molly would have resisted ; have gone out , for instance , when she was expected to stay at home ; or have lingered in the garden when a long country walk was planned . 
At last -- for she could not help loving Cynthia , come what would -- she determined to believe that Cynthia was entirely unaware of all ; but it was with an effort that she brought herself to believe it . 
I heard Gibson speaking of it , and I made him get it for me . 
Molly knew that Cynthia did not love him . 
Molly grew angry with her many and many a time as the conviction of this fact was forced upon her . 
Molly did not know her own feelings ; Roger had no overwhelming interest in what they might be ; while his very life-breath seemed to depend on what Cynthia felt and thought . 
Therefore Molly had keen insight into her `` sister 's '' heart ; and she knew that Cynthia did not love Roger . 
Molly could have cried with passionate regret at the thought of the unvalued treasure lying at Cynthia 's feet ; and it would have been a merely unselfish regret . 
Cynthia 's love was the moon Roger yearned for ; and Molly saw that it was far away and out of reach , else would she have strained her heart-cords to give it to Roger . 
`` I am his sister , '' she would say to herself . 
These obstacles were not unlike the shield of the knight in the old story ; only instead of the two sides presented to the two travellers approaching it from opposite quarters , one of which was silver , and one of which was gold , Lady Harriet saw the smooth and shining yellow radiance , while poor Molly only perceived a dull and heavy lead . 
To Lady Harriet it was `` Molly is gone out ; she will be sorry to miss you , but she was obliged to go to see some old friends of her mother 's whom she ought not to neglect ; as I said to her , constancy is everything . 
To Molly it had previously been , `` Lady Harriet is coming here this morning . 
Of course she 'll ask for you , out of common civility ; but you would only interrupt us if you came in , as you did the other day ; '' -- now addressing Molly -- `` I hardly like to say so , but I thought it was very forward . '' 
`` Maria told me she had asked for me , '' put in Molly , simply . 
continued Mrs. Gibson , taking no further notice of the interruption , except to strengthen the words to which Molly 's little speech had been intended as a correction . 
`` I think this time I must secure her ladyship from the chances of such an intrusion , by taking care that you are out of the house , Molly . 
`` It 's far too long a walk for Molly ; she 's had a bad cold , and is not as strong as she was a fortnight ago . 
If you want Molly out of the way , mamma , send her to the Miss Brownings , ' they are always glad to see her . '' 
`` I never said I wanted Molly out of the way , Cynthia , '' replied Mrs. Gibson . 
I am sure , Molly , my love , you could never have so misunderstood me ; it is only on Lady Harriet 's account . '' 
`` Though Lady Harriet does n't care for me as much as she does for Molly -- indeed , quite the contrary I should say -- yet she might ask after me , and I had better be safely out of the way . '' 
`` She is much less likely to ask for you , my dear : I almost think you might remain in the house , or you might go to the Holly Farm ; I really do want the damsons ; or you might stay here in the dining-room , you know , so as to be ready to arrange lunch prettily , if she does take a fancy to stay for it . 
I think you had better stay at home , Cynthia , and then you could fetch Molly from Miss Brownings ' in the afternoon , you know , and you two could take a walk together . 
Off with you , Molly . 
She had recourse to her accustomed feckless piece of retaliation -- bestowing some favour on Molly ; and this did not hurt Cynthia one whit . 
`` Molly , darling , there 's a very cold wind , though it looks so fine . 
`` Thank you , '' said Molly : and she left Mrs. Gibson in careless uncertainty as to whether her offer would be accepted or not . 
What news for Molly when she comes home ! '' 
`` Why , what has Molly to do with it ? '' 
Then , as if the mention of Molly 's name had brought her afresh into her mind , Lady Harriet said , -- `` And where is Molly all this time ? 
I hear she is very much grown since those days . '' 
when she once gets gossiping with the Miss Brownings , she never knows when to come home , '' said Mrs. Gibson . 
Pecksy and Flapsy ; I may call them so in Molly 's absence . 
I 'll go and see them before I go home , and then perhaps I shall see my dear little Molly too . 
But Molly had left before Lady Harriet arrived . 
Molly went the long walk to the Holly Farm to order the damsons out of a kind of penitence . 
She had felt conscious of anger at being sent out of the house by such a palpable manoeuvre as that which her stepmother had employed . 
Of course she did not meet Cynthia , so she went alone along the pretty lanes , with grassy sides and high-hedge banks not at all in the style of modern agriculture . 
It was a wonder to Molly whether this silence was right or wrong . 
But , possibly , her father 's example of silence , and often some piece of kindness on Mrs. Gibson 's part -LRB- for after her way , and when in a good temper , she was very kind to Molly -RRB- , made her hold her tongue . 
Molly 's lips formed an acquiescing `` yes '' to this remark , but no sound was heard . 
There was a buzzing in her ears as if the others were going on with the conversation , but the words they uttered seemed indistinct and blurred ; they were merely conjectures , and did not interfere with the one great piece of news . 
To the rest of the party she appeared to be eating her dinner as usual , and , if she were silent , there was one listener the more to Mrs. Gibson 's stream of prattle , and Mr. Gibson 's and Cynthia 's remarks . 
`` That 's capital , Gibson ! 
I say , Gibson , I think my luck is turning at last , '' passing him on yet another letter to read . 
`` Now , Gibson , do n't go and be offended . 
`` I should n't so much mind if Roger fell in love with your Molly . 
He can fight for himself , you see , and she 's an uncommon nice girl . 
The squire began the conversation with unusual self-control ; but he grew irritated when Osborne denied his father 's right to interfere in any marriage he might contemplate ; denied it with a certain degree of doggedness and weariness of the subject that drove the squire into one of his passions ; and although on after reflection he remembered that he had his son 's promise and solemn word not to think of either Cynthia or Molly for his wife , yet the father and son had passed through one of those altercations which help to estrange men for life . 
Molly had gone out for a walk . 
A daily walk was not a necessity to her as it was to Molly . 
Molly chose a walk that had been a favourite with her ever since she was a child . 
Something or other had happened just before she left home that made her begin wondering how far it was right , for the sake of domestic peace , to pass over without comment the little deviations from right that people perceive in those whom they live with . 
Or , whether , as they are placed in families for distinct purposes , not by chance merely , there are not duties involved in this aspect of their lot in life , -- whether by continually passing over failings , their own standard is not lowered , -- the practical application of these thoughts being a dismal sort of perplexity on Molly 's part as to whether her father was quite aware of her stepmother 's perpetual lapses from truth ; and whether his blindness was wilful or not . 
Then she felt bitterly enough that although she was sure as could be that there was no real estrangement between her and her father , yet that there were perpetual obstacles thrown in the way of their intercourse ; and she thought with a sigh that if he would but come in with authority , he might cut his way clear to the old intimacy with his daughter , and that they might have all the former walks and talks , and quips and cranks , and glimpses of real confidence once again ; things that her stepmother did not value , yet which she , like the dog in the manger , prevented Molly enjoying . 
But after all Molly was a girl , not so far removed from childhood ; and in the middle of her grave regrets and perplexities , her eye was caught by the sight of some fine ripe blackberries flourishing away high up on the hedgebank among scarlet hips and green and russet leaves . 
She did not care much for blackberries herself ; but she had heard Cynthia say that she liked them ; and besides there was the charm of scrambling and gathering them ; so she forgot all about her troubles , and went climbing up the banks , and clutching at her almost inaccessible prizes , and slipping down again triumphant , to carry them back to the large leaf which was to serve her as a basket . 
One or two of them she tasted , but they were as vapid to her palate as ever . 
The skirt of her pretty print gown was torn out of the gathers , and even with the fruit she had eaten `` her pretty lips with blackberries were all besmeared and dyed , '' when having gathered as many and more than she could possibly carry , she set off home , hoping to escape into her room and mend her gown before it had offended Mrs. Gibson 's neat eye . 
The front door was easily opened form the outside , and when Molly was out of the clear light of the open air and in the shadow of the hall , she saw a face peep out of the dining-room before she quite recognized whose it was ; and then Mrs. Gibson came softly out ; sufficiently at least to beckon her into the room . 
When Molly had entered Mrs. Gibson closed the door . 
Poor Molly expected a reprimand for her torn gown and untidy appearance , but was soon relieved by the expression of Mrs. Gibson 's face -- mysterious and radiant . 
asked Molly . 
`` But I may go to my own room , may n't I , '' pleaded Molly . 
But Molly did not hear these last words . 
She had escaped upstairs , and shut the door . 
Instinctively she had carried her leaf full of blackberries -- what would blackberries be to Cynthia now ? 
He never , never would have done so cruel a thing -- never would have forgotten poor little Molly , however happy he might be . 
She laid down her head on her arms that rested upon the window-sill , and cried , -- she had been so distrustful as to have let the idea enter her mind that he could go without wishing her good-by , her , whom his mother had so loved , and called by the name of his little dead sister . 
Molly hastily wiped her eyes , and stood up and tried to look unconcerned ; it was all she had time to do before Cynthia , after a little pause at the closed door , had knocked ; and on an answer being given , and said , without opening the door , -- `` Molly ! 
Then she went downstairs again , as if anxious just at that moment to avoid even so short a tête-à-tête with Molly . 
With a gulp and a fit of resolution , as a child makes up its mind to swallow a nauseous dose of medicine , Molly went instantly down to the drawing-room . 
Roger was talking earnestly to Mrs. Gibson in the bow of the window when Molly entered ; Cynthia was standing near , listening , but taking no part in the conversation . 
Her eyes were downcast , and she did not look up as Molly drew shyly near . 
Oh , Molly ! '' 
suddenly becoming aware of her presence , and turning to her , and taking her hand in both of his , -- `` I think you have long guessed my secret , have you not ? 
I once thought of speaking to you before I left , and confiding it all to you But the temptation has been too great , -- I have told Cynthia how fondly I love her , as far as words can tell ; and she says -- '' then he looked at Cynthia with passionate delight , and seemed to forget in that gaze that he had left his sentence to Molly half finished . 
Please , Molly ! 
Molly felt as if she could never bring herself to name the affair as a common piece of news . 
Then Molly 's turn came , and the old brotherly tenderness came back into his look , his voice , his bearing . 
`` Molly ! 
Molly stood , numb to the heart ; neither glad nor sorry , nor anything but stunned . 
She felt the slackened touch of the warm grasping hand ; she looked up -- for till now her eyes had been downcast , as if there were heavy weights to their lids -- and the place was empty where he had been ; his quick step was heard on the stair , the front door was opened and shut ; and then as quick as lightning Molly ran up to the front attic -- the lumber-room , whose window commanded the street down which he must pass . 
The window-clasp was unused and stiff , Molly tugged at it -- unless it was open , and her head put out , that last chance would be gone . 
she wailed out , as she was pulling . 
In all his hurry , Molly saw him turn round and shade his eyes from the level rays of the westering sun , and rake the house with his glances -- in hopes , she knew , of catching one more glimpse of Cynthia . 
But apparently he saw no one , not even Molly at the attic casement ; for she had drawn back when he turned , and kept herself in shadow ; for she had no right to put herself forward as the one to watch and yearn for farewell signs . 
She shut the window softly , and shivered all over . 
She left the attic and went to her own room ; but she did not begin to take off her out-of-door things till she heard Cynthia 's foot on the stairs . 
Then she hastily went to the toilet-table , and began to untie her bonnet-strings ; but they were in a knot , and took time to undo . 
Cynthia 's step stopped at Molly 's door ; she opened it a little and said , -- `` May I come in , Molly ? '' 
`` Certainly , '' said Molly , longing to be able to say `` No '' all the time . 
Molly did not turn to meet her , so Cynthia came up behind her , and putting her two hands round Molly 's waist , peeped over her shoulder , putting out her lips to be kissed . 
Molly could not resist the action -- the mute entreaty for a caress . 
But , in the moment before , she had caught reflections of the two faces in the glass ; her own , red-eyed , pale , with lips dyed with blackberry juice , her curls tangled , her bonnet pulled awry , her gown torn -- and contrasted it with Cynthia 's brightness and bloom , and the trim elegance of her dress . 
thought poor Molly , as she turned , and put her arms round Cynthia , and laid her head for an instant on her shoulder -- the weary , aching head that sought a loving pillow in that supreme moment ! 
`` You speak with all the solemnity of an adjuration , Molly ! '' 
said she , laughing a little at first to cover her nervousness , and then looking up at Molly . 
I can respect , and I fancy I can admire , and I can like , but I never feel carried off my feet by love for any one , not even for you , little Molly , and I am sure I love you more than -- '' `` No , do n't ! '' 
said Molly , putting her hand before Cynthia 's mouth , in almost a passion of impatience . 
`` Why , Molly ! '' 
said Cynthia , in her turn seeking to read Molly 's face , `` what 's the matter with you ? 
said Molly , all the blood rushing to her heart suddenly ; then it returned , and she had courage to speak , and she spoke the truth as she believed it , though not the real actual truth . 
Suddenly she recalled herself to the present time , and her eye caught on the leaf full of blackberries -- the broad , green leaf , so fresh and crisp when Molly had gathered it an hour or so ago , but now soft and flabby , and dying . 
Molly saw it , too , and felt a strange kind of sympathetic pity for the poor inanimate leaf . 
asked Molly . 
Molly went about the adjustment of her dress in a quiet , businesslike manner , not speaking much ; Cynthia , although sitting still , seemed very restless . 
how much Molly wished that she would go . 
said Molly , almost bitterly . 
he may change his mind , or I may ; or some one else may turn up , and I may get engaged to him : what should you think of that , Molly ? 
`` Do n't talk so , Cynthia , please do n't , '' said Molly , piteously . 
She took Molly 's face in both her hands , before Molly was aware of her intention , and kissed it playfully . 
Then she left Molly to herself . 
In general , she preferred her easy-chair , or her corner of the sofa , upstairs in the drawing-room , though it was very rarely that she would allow Molly to avail herself of her stepmother 's neglected privilege . 
Molly would fain have gone down and kept her father company every night that he had these solitary meals ; but for peace and quietness she gave up her own wishes on the matter . 
`` You are vexed now because it is not Molly he 's in love with ; and I call it very unjust and unfair to my poor fatherless girl . 
I am sure I have always tried to further Molly 's interests as if she was my own daughter . '' 
I only wish it were Molly 's good fortune to meet with such another . '' 
`` I will try for her ; I will indeed , '' said Mrs. Gibson , relieved by his change of tone . 
I 'll have no ` trying ' for Molly . '' 
Molly felt as if she could have thanked her father aloud for this testimony to the value of him who was gone away . 
Molly saw Cynthia 's eyes filled with tears , and followed her to the other end of the room , where she had gone to seek some working materials . 
`` Oh , Molly , I am so fond of your father ; what makes him speak so to me to-night ? '' 
`` I do n't know , '' said Molly ; `` perhaps he 's tired . '' 
`` Come , Molly , '' said Cynthia , suddenly ; `` let us sing that duet I 've been teaching you ; it 's better than talking as we are doing . '' 
Molly sang it carelessly , with heaviness at her heart ; but Cynthia sang it with spirit and apparent merriment ; only she broke down in hysterics at last , and flew upstairs to her own room . 
Molly , heeding nothing else -- neither her father nor Mrs. Gibson 's words -- followed her , and found the door of her bedroom locked , and for all reply to her entreaties to be allowed to come in , she heard Cynthia sobbing and crying . 
I ask you , Gibson , for you must know this girl . 
She has n't much money , I suppose ? '' 
`` About thirty pounds a year , at my pleasure during her mother 's life . 
`` Do n't go , Gibson . 
`` Is she -- well , is she like your Molly ? 
`` She is much prettier than Molly to begin with , and has very winning ways . 
She is always well-dressed and smart-looking , and I know she has not much to spend on her clothes , and always does what she is asked to do , and is ready enough with her pretty , lively answers . 
I do n't think I ever saw her out of temper ; but then I 'm not sure if she takes things keenly to heart , and a certain obtuseness of feeling goes a great way towards a character for good temper , I 've observed . 
`` Your Molly is one in a thousand , to my mind . 
This he said as if he were thinking aloud , and without reference to Mr. Gibson , but it nettled the latter , and he replied somewhat impatiently , -- `` Well , but as there is no question of Molly in this business , I do n't see the use of bringing her name in , and considering either her family or her fortune . '' 
`` My wits had gone far afield , and I 'll own I was only thinking what a pity it was she would n't do for Osborne . 
`` I say , Gibson , we 're old friends , and you 're a fool if you take anything I say as an offence . 
Suppose you bring her , and this girl Cynthia -LRB- which is as outlandish a Christian name as I 'd wish to hear -RRB- , and little Molly out here to lunch some day , -- I 'm more at my ease in my own house , -- and I 'm more sure to be civil , too . 
Cynthia too was silent enough ; and as for Molly , she was absolutely dull and out of spirits , a state of mind so annoying to Mrs. Gibson just now , that she vented some of her discontent upon the poor girl , from whom she feared neither complaint nor repartee . 
Still Mr. Gibson knew the hot hasty temper he had to deal with , and had expected more violence of language than he really encountered ; and the last arrangement by which Cynthia , her mother , and Molly -- who , as Mr. Gibson thought to himself , and smiled at the thought , was sure to be a peacemaker , and a sweetener of intercourse -- were to go to the Hall and make acquaintance with the squire , appeared like a great success to Mr. Gibson , for achieving which he took not a little credit to himself . 
Molly knew all this by instinct , and was happy without being aware of it , as soon as she heard the low whistle which was no music after all . 
Cynthia looked up quickly , questioning with her eyes ; Molly stopped her netting to listen ; no one spoke . 
said she , with an effort . 
said Molly , pleading with her eyes as well as her words . 
But for all his annoyance on the subject , he was , in fact , very curious to know how the visit had gone off , and took the first opportunity of being alone with Molly to question her about the lunch of the day before at Hamley Hall . 
You know I was almost at home , and besides -- of course -- '' Molly went very red , and left the sentence unfinished . 
asked her father , just as if she had completed her speech . 
`` Oh , papa '' -- said Molly , and then she stopped ; she wanted to speak in favour of Cynthia , but somehow she could form no reply that pleased her to this repeated inquiry . 
He did not seem much to care if he got an answer or not , for he went on with his own thoughts , and the result was that he asked Molly if Cynthia had heard from Roger . 
Now Cynthia , rather to Molly 's surprise , had told her that she might read the letter if she liked , and Molly had shrunk from availing herself of the permission , for Roger 's sake . 
She thought that he would probably have poured out his heart to the one sole person , and that it was not fair to listen , as it were , to his confidences . 
Then Molly blushed all over crimson , for it suddenly struck her that Osborne was probably with his wife -- that mysterious wife , of whose existence she was cognizant , but of whom she knew so little , and of whom her father knew nothing . 
It was troublesome enough to find that one of the squire 's precious sons had fallen in love within the prohibited ranks ; and what would not have to be said and done if anything fresh were to come out between Osborne and Molly . 
`` Molly , I was taken by surprise by this affair between Cynthia and Roger Hamley -- if there 's anything more on the tapis let me know at once , honestly and openly . 
He took her hand as he spoke . 
She looked up at him with clear , truthful eyes , which filled with tears as she spoke . 
She did not know why the tears came ; perhaps it was because she was not so strong as formerly . 
I do n't want to have my Molly carried off by any young man just yet ; I should miss her sadly . '' 
Molly threw her arms round his neck , and began to sob bitterly , her head lying on his shoulder . 
said he , patting her on the back , and leading her to the sofa , `` that will do . 
he continued , holding her a little away from him that he might look in her face . 
She smiled at him through her tears ; and he did not see the look of sadness which returned to her face after he had left her . 
So he kissed her , and said , -- `` That 's right , dear ! 
His commonplace words acted like an astringent on Molly 's relaxed feelings . 
He intended that they should do so ; it was the truest kindness to her ; but he walked away from her with a sharp pang at his heart , which he turned into numbness as soon as he could by throwing himself violently into the affairs and cares of others . 
The honour and glory of having a lover of her own was soon to fall to Molly 's share ; though , to be sure , it was a little deduction to the honour that the man who came with the full intention of proposing to her , ended by making Cynthia an offer . 
It was Mr. Coxe , who came back to Hollingford to follow out the purpose he had announced to Mr. Gibson nearly two years before , of inducing Molly to become his wife as soon as he should have succeeded to his uncle 's estate . 
He piqued himself on his constancy ; and indeed considering that he had been so much restrained by his duty , his affection , and his expectations to his crabbed old uncle , that he had not been able to go much into society , and very rarely indeed into the company of young ladies , such fidelity to Molly was very meritorious , at least in his own eyes . 
Mr. Gibson too was touched by it , and made it a point of honour to give him a fair field , all the time sincerely hoping that Molly would not be such a goose as to lend a willing ear to a youth who could never remember the difference between apophysis and epiphysis . 
Mrs. Gibson , who felt that she had somehow lost her place in her husband 's favour , took it into her head that she could reinstate herself if she was successful in finding a good match for his daughter Molly . 
She knew that he had forbidden her to try for this end , as distinctly as words could express a meaning ; but her own words so seldom did express her meaning , or if they did , she held to her opinions so loosely , that she had no idea but that it was the same with other people . 
Accordingly she gave Mr. Coxe a very sweet and gracious welcome . 
she and Molly are such great friends -- out for a brisk walk this frosty day , but I think they will soon come back . '' 
She went on saying agreeable nothings to the young man , who received her attentions with a certain complacency , but was all the time much more engaged in listening to the well-remembered click at the front door , -- the shutting it to again with household care , and the sound of the familiar bounding footstep on the stair . 
Then in came Molly softly behind her , smiling , happy , dimpled ; but not such a glowing beauty as Cynthia . 
Molly lost her open friendliness of manner , and began to shrink away from him in a way which he thought was a very ungrateful return for all his faithfulness to her these two years past ; and after all she was not the wonderful beauty his fancy or his love had painted her . 
So while Molly quietly repelled him , Cynthia drew him to her by her soft attractive ways ; and his constancy fell before her charms . 
He was thankful that he had not gone too far with Molly , and grateful to Mr. Gibson for having prohibited all declarations two years ago . 
Now it had so happened that Mr. Gibson had been unusually little at home during the fortnight that Mr. Coxe had ostensibly lodged at the George , but in reality had spent the greater part of his time at Mr. Gibson 's -- so that he had seen very little of his former pupil , and on the whole he had thought him improved , especially after Molly 's manner had made her father pretty sure that Mr. Coxe stood no chance in that quarter . 
There she was , as bright and careless as usual , making up a bonnet for her mother , and chattering to Molly as she worked . 
Was there anything in the article that made him say , after a minute or two , to Molly , who sat silent and wondering -- `` Molly , you must never trifle with the love of an honest man . 
Molly could not imagine what `` more severely '' could be , for her father 's manner appeared to her almost cruel in its sternness . 
It 's pretty much that , is n't it , Molly ? '' 
`` I was afraid he was becoming very fond of you , '' said Molly ; `` at least it struck me once or twice ; but I knew he could not stay long , and I thought it would only make you uncomfortable if I said anything about it . 
Molly had a question at her tongue 's end that she longed to put ; she knew it was indiscreet , but at last out it came almost against her will . 
said Molly , under her breath . 
`` I am afraid it would make him uncomfortable , '' said Molly , simply . 
You repeated ` Ever married , ' a little while ago ; do you know , Molly , I do n't think I ever shall be married to him ? 
Molly dropped her work , and sat silent , looking into the future ; at length she said , `` I think it would break his heart , Cynthia ! '' 
asked Molly , indignantly . 
Do n't be so dreadfully serious over everything , Molly . 
said Molly stoutly , for it required a good deal of courage to force herself to say this , although she could not tell why she shrank so from speaking . 
What can I say more , Molly ? 
Why Mr. Preston was introduced neither she nor Molly knew ; it came up and out by a sudden impulse ; but a fierce look came into the eyes , and the soft lips contracted themselves as Cynthia named his name . 
Molly had noticed this look before , always at the mention of this one person . 
and yet , Molly , '' said she , suddenly relaxing into depression , not merely in tone and look , but in the droop of her limbs -- `` Molly , what should you think of me if I married him after all ? '' 
I sometimes think I 'll write to her to find me a situation in Russia , just to get out of the daily chance of seeing that man ! '' 
`` I do n't understand it at all , '' said Molly . 
`` No , because you are a reasonable little darling , '' said Cynthia , resuming her usual manner , and coming up to Molly , and kissing her . 
You see , Molly , '' continued she , a little piteously , `` I 've never lived with people with such a high standard of conduct before ; and I do n't quite know how to behave . '' 
`` You must learn , '' said Molly tenderly . 
Molly turned away her head , and was silent ; it was of no use combating the truth , and she tried rather not to feel it -- not to feel , poor girl , that she too had a great weight on her heart , into the cause of which she shrank from examining . 
That whole winter long she had felt as if her sun was all shrouded over with grey mist , and could no longer shine brightly for her . 
She wakened up in the morning with a dull sense of something being wrong -- the world was out of joint , and , if she were born to set it right , she did not know how to do it . 
Blind herself as she would , she could not help perceiving that her father was not satisfied with the wife he had chosen . 
For a long time Molly had been surprised at his apparent contentment ; sometimes she had been unselfish enough to be glad that he was satisfied ; but still more frequently nature would have its way , and she was almost irritated at what she considered his blindness . 
Something , however , had changed him now : something that had arisen at the time of Cynthia 's engagement ; he had become nervously sensitive to his wife 's failings , and his whole manner had grown dry and sarcastic , not merely to her , but sometimes to Cynthia , -- and even -- but this very rarely , to Molly herself . 
Molly now learnt to long after the vanished blindness in which her father had passed the first year of his marriage ; yet there were no outrageous infractions of domestic peace . 
Molly sometimes took her stepmother 's part in secret ; she felt as if she herself could never have borne her father 's hard speeches so patiently ; they would have cut her to the heart , and she must either have demanded an explanation , and probed the sore to the bottom , or sat down despairing and miserable . 
And thus she went on , groping about to find the means of reinstating herself in his good graces -- really trying , according to her lights , till Molly was often compelled to pity her in spite of herself , and although she saw that her stepmother was the cause of her father 's increased astringency of disposition . 
So that poor Molly had not passed a cheerful winter , independently of any private sorrows that she might have in her own heart . 
She did not look well , either : she was gradually falling into low health , rather than bad health . 
Her heart beat more feebly and slower , the vivifying stimulant of hope -- even unacknowledged hope -- was gone out of her life . 
It seemed as if there was not , and never could be in this world , any help for the dumb discordancy between her father and his wife . 
Day after day , month after month , year after year , would Molly have to sympathize with her father , and pity her stepmother , feeling acutely for both , and certainly more than Mrs. Gibson left for herself . 
Molly could not imagine how she had at one time wished for her father 's eyes to be opened , and how she could ever have fancied that if they were , he would be able to change things in Mrs. Gibson 's character . 
Then Cynthia 's ways and manners about Roger gave Molly a great deal of uneasiness . 
She did not believe that Cynthia cared enough for him ; at any rate , not with the sort of love that she herself would have bestowed , if she had been so happy -- no , that was not it -- if she had been in Cynthia 's place . 
Yet Cynthia received his letters with a kind of carelessness , and read them with a strange indifference , while Molly sat at her feet , so to speak , looking up with eyes as wistful as a dog 's waiting for crumbs , and such chance beneficences . 
asked greedy Molly . 
Molly sat silent for a minute or two . 
`` That 's nearly two months ago , '' said Molly . 
If anything did -- go wrong , you know , '' said Cynthia , using a euphuism for death , as most people do -LRB- it is an ugly word to speak plain out in the midst of life -RRB- , `` it would be all over before I even heard of his illness , and I could be of no use to him -- could I , Molly ? '' 
`` I always write him a little note when I hear from Roger , but I do n't think I 'll name this touch of fever -- shall I , Molly . '' 
`` I do n't know , '' said Molly . 
Molly took the letter , the thought crossing her mind that he had touched it , had had his hands upon it , in those far distant desert lands , where he might be lost to sight and to any human knowledge of his fate ; even now her pretty brown fingers almost caressed the flimsy paper with their delicacy of touch as she read . 
She saw references made to books , which , with a little trouble , would be accessible to her here in Hollingford . 
Perhaps the details and the references would make the letter dull and dry to some people , but not to her , thanks to his former teaching and the interest he had excited in her for his pursuits . 
Molly was not in strong health , and perhaps this made her a little fanciful ; but certain it is that her thoughts by day and her dreams by night were haunted by the idea of Roger lying ill and untended in those savage lands . 
Her constant prayer , `` O my Lord ! 
Cynthia was always the same with Molly : kind , sweet-tempered , ready to help , professing a great deal of love for her , and probably feeling as much as she did for any one in the world . 
But Molly had reached to this superficial depth of affection and intimacy in the first few weeks of Cynthia 's residence in her father 's house ; and if she had been of a nature prone to analyse the character of one whom she loved dearly , she might have perceived that , with all Cynthia 's apparent frankness , there were certain limits beyond which her confidence did not go ; where her reserve began , and her real self was shrouded in mystery . 
For instance , her relations with Mr. Preston were often very puzzling to Molly . 
She was sure that there had been a much greater intimacy between them formerly at Ashcombe , and that the remembrance of this was often very galling and irritating to Cynthia , who was evidently desirous of forgetting it as he was anxious to make her remember it . 
But why this intimacy had ceased , why Cynthia disliked him so extremly now , and many other unexplained circumstances connected with these two facts , were Cynthia 's secrets ; and she effectually baffled all Molly 's innocent attempts during the first glow of her friendship for Cynthia , to learn the girlish antecedents of her companion 's life . 
Every now and then Molly came to a dead wall , beyond which she could not pass -- at least with the delicate instruments which were all she chose to use . 
But Molly 's was the interest of affection , not the coarser desire of knowing everything for a little excitement ; and as soon as she saw that Cynthia did not wish to tell her anything about that period of her life , Molly left off referring to it . 
But if Cynthia had preserved a sweet tranquillity of manner and an unvarying kindness for Molly during the winter of which there is question , at present she was the only person to whom the beauty 's ways were unchanged . 
Mr. Gibson 's influence had been good for her as long as she saw that he liked her ; she had tried to keep as high a place in his good opinion as she could , and had curbed many a little sarcasm against her mother , and many a twisting of the absolute truth when he was by . 
Now there was a constant uneasiness about her which made her more cowardly than before ; and even her partisan , Molly , could not help being aware of the distinct equivocations she occasionally used when anything in Mr. Gibson 's words or behaviour pressed her too hard . 
Her repartees to her mother were less frequent than they had been , but there was often the unusual phenomenon of pettishness in her behaviour to her . 
Now as for dear Molly , there 's a kind of awkwardness about her -- she broke one of our best china cups last time she was at a party at our house , and spilt the coffee on the new carpet ; and then she got so confused that she hardly did anything but sit in a corner and hold her tongue all the rest of the evening . '' 
`` She was so sorry for what she 'd done , sister , '' said Miss Phoebe , in a gentle tone of reproach ; she was always faithful to Molly . 
I 'm very fond of Molly Gibson , very , for her own sake and for her mother 's too ; I 'm not sure if I do n't think she 's worth half-a-dozen Cynthias , but for all that she should n't break my best china teacup , and then sit doing nothing for her livelihood all the rest of the evening . '' 
By this time Mrs. Goodenough gave evident signs of being tired ; Molly 's misdemeanors and Miss Browning 's broken tea cup were not as exciting subjects of conversation as Mrs. Gibson 's newly-discovered good luck in having a successful London lawyer for a relation . 
Molly struck him as a delicate-looking girl , who might be very pretty if she had a greater look of health and animation : indeed , looking at her critically , there were beautiful points about her face -- long soft grey eyes , black curling eyelashes , rarely-showing dimples , perfect teeth ; but there was a languor over all , a slow depression of manner , which contrasted unfavourably with the brightly-coloured Cynthia , sparkling , quick , graceful , and witty . 
For Mrs. Gibson and Molly he had a general friendly feeling ; but he did not care if he never saw them again . 
`` Do you , Molly ? '' 
I know she does n't like spending money on her dress , and is very careful . '' 
Molly said this much , and then was afraid she had made mischief . 
`` But then she must have got the money somewhere . 
`` I can not tell , '' said Molly , seeing that she was appealed to . 
But , Molly my dear , I think you 'll acknowledge that you too are very fortunate in your stepmother . 
said Molly , rising up . 
A month or two in London would do you so much good , Molly . '' 
Molly had left the room before this speech was ended , and Mr. Gibson was occupied with his newspaper ; but Mrs. Gibson finished it to herself very much to her own satisfaction ; for , after all , it was better to have some one of the family going on the visit , though she might not be the right person , than to refuse it altogether , and never to have the opportunity of saying anything about it . 
As Mr. Gibson was so kind to Cynthia , she too would be kind to Molly , and dress her becomingly , and invite young men to the house ; do all the things , in fact , which Molly and her father did not want to have done , and throw the old stumbling-blocks in the way of their unrestrained intercourse , which was the one thing they desired to have , free and open , and without the constant dread of her jealousy . 
Molly found Cynthia in the drawing-room , standing in the bow-window , looking out on the garden . 
She started as Molly came up to her . 
`` Oh , Molly , '' said she , putting her arms out towards her , `` I am always so glad to have you with me ! '' 
It was outbursts of affection such as these that always called Molly back , if she had been ever so unconsciously wavering in her allegiance to Cynthia . 
`` Do you know , I think you 'll be glad to hear what I 've got to tell you , '' said Molly . 
`` Do n't you begin about it , Molly , for the thing is settled ; and I ca n't tell you why , but I ca n't go . '' 
said Molly . 
Molly , you 're a lucky girl ! '' 
said Molly , quite startled at being told this ; for she had been feeling as if so many things were going wrong , almost as if they would never go right again . 
`` I do think your father is the most charming man I know , '' said Cynthia , on her return to Molly ; `` and it 's that which always makes me so afraid of losing his good opinion , and fret so when I think he is displeased with me . 
said Molly , rather wistfully . 
You need not smile at my truisms ; I 've always had a sympathy with M. de la Palisse , -- M. de la Palisse est mort En perdant sa vie ; Un quart d'heure avant sa mort Il était en vie , '' sang she , in so gay a manner that she puzzled Molly , as she often did , by her change of mood from the gloomy decision with which she had refused to accept the invitation only half an hour ago . 
She suddenly took Molly round the waist , and began waltzing about the room with her , to the imminent danger of the various little tables , loaded with `` object d'art '' -LRB- as Mrs. Gibson delighted to call them -RRB- with which the drawing-room was crowded . 
`` Yes , '' said Molly ; `` I did n't know if any one besides me had noticed it . 
exclaimed Molly , suddenly sitting down , and thinking of that strange , mysterious wife who never made her appearance , whose very existence was never spoken about -- and Roger away too ! 
`` Well , it would be very sad , of course , and we should all feel it very much , I 've no doubt ; for I 've always been very fond of Osborne ; in fact , before Roger became , as it were , my own flesh and blood , I liked Osborne better ; but we must not forget the living , dear Molly '' -LRB- for Molly 's eyes were filling with tears at the dismal thoughts presented to her -RRB- . 
For poor Roger 's sake , you know , one wishes it not to be so very , very long an engagement ; and I was only answering Molly 's question , after all . 
said Molly , warm in her turn . 
Then Molly asks what will happen if he dies ; and I try to answer her question . 
it may sound very cross , but I must tell Molly and you , and everybody , once for all , that as I do n't want and did n't ask for more than my allowance , I 'm not going to answer any questions about what I do with it . '' 
She did not say this with any want of respect ; but she said it with quiet determination , which subdued her mother for the time ; though often afterwards , when Mrs. Gibson and Molly were alone , the former would start the wonder as to what Cynthia could possibly have done with her money , and hint each poor conjecture through woods and vallies of doubt , till she was wearied out ; and the exciting sport was given up for the day . 
`` She 's a pretty lass , sure enough , '' thought he , `` and has pretty ways about her too , and likes to learn from older people ; which is a good sign ; but , somehow , I do n't like madam her mother ; but still she is her mother , and the girl is her daughter ; yet she spoke to her once or twice as I should n't ha ' liked our little Fanny to have spoken , if it had pleased God for her to ha ' lived . 
And then again she took possession o ' me , as I may say , and little Molly had to run after us in the garden walks that are too narrow for three , just like a little four-legged doggie ; and the other was so full of listening to me , she never turned round for to speak a word to Molly . 
It 's Miss Kirkpatrick , Gibson 's stepdaughter . 
`` It was Gibson , who came here , and made a clean breast of it , like a man of honour . 
I 'll own it was you I was afraid of -- it 's bad enough with Roger , and maybe will come to nothing after all ; but if it had been you , I 'd ha ' broken with Gibson and every mother 's son of 'em , sooner than have let it go on ; and so I told Gibson . '' 
`` As I was saying , Gibson said , when first we spoke about it , that there was nothing on foot between any of you four , and that if there was , he would let me know ; so by-and-by he comes and tells me of this . '' 
Then , having finished making her bow of ribbon , she turned to him , and continued in a quick low voice , anxious to take advantage of a tête-à-tête between her mother and Molly , -- `` I think I can guess why you made that pretty little speech just now . 
`` But Lady Harriet said , in her last letter , that they hoped she would be stronger than she had been for years , '' said Molly , innocently . 
To Molly it seemed too charming a proposal ever to come to pass . 
She had never allowed herself to recognize the restraint she was under in her stepmother 's presence ; but all at once she found it out when her heart danced at the idea of three whole days -- for that it would be at the least -- of perfect freedom of intercourse with her father ; of old times come back again ; of meals without perpetual fidgetiness after details of ceremony and correctness of attendance . 
So thought Molly . 
Yet she blushed , as if with guilt , when Cynthia , reading her thoughts , said to her one day , -- `` Molly , you 're very glad to get rid of us , are not you ? '' 
`` She is papa 's wife , '' said Molly , quietly . 
`` I do n't mean to say I am not often very sorry to feel I am no longer first with him ; but it was '' -- the violent colour flushed into her face till even her eyes burnt , and she suddenly found herself on the point of crying ; the weeping ash-tree , the misery , the slow dropping comfort , and the comforter came all so vividly before her -- `` it was Roger ! '' 
-- she went on looking up at Cynthia , as she overcame her slight hesitation at mentioning his name -- `` Roger , who told me how I ought to take papa 's marriage , when I was first startled and grieved at the news . 
At the same time , Molly , I 'm afraid he 'll expect me to be always as good as he fancies me now , and I shall have to walk on tiptoe all the rest of my life . '' 
`` But you are good , Cynthia , '' put in Molly . 
`` I think he 'll love you just as much , '' said Molly . 
Would you remember how very difficult it has sometimes been to me to act rightly '' -LRB- she took hold of Molly 's hand as she spoke -RRB- . 
`` We wo n't speak of mamma , for your sake as much as mine or hers ; but you must see she is not one to help a girl with much good advice , or good -- Oh , Molly , you do n't know how I was neglected just at a time when I wanted friends most . 
Mamma does not know it ; it is not in her to know what I might have been if I had only fallen into wise , good hands . 
But I know it ; and what 's more , '' continued she , suddenly ashamed of her unusual exhibition of feeling , `` I try not to care , which I daresay is really the worst of all ; but I could worry myself to death if I once took to serious thinking . '' 
`` I wish I could help you , or even understand you , '' said Molly , after a moment or two of sad perplexity . 
But as Molly walked home with her father from seeing Mrs. Gibson and Cynthia off to London by the `` Umpire '' coach , she almost danced along the street . 
said Molly , suddenly feeling as if she ought to have taken this view of the case . 
In spite of the sharp pinch which Molly gave to his arm , Mr. Gibson accepted the invitation , much to the gratification of the old lady . 
`` Somehow '' all Molly 's wishes came to pass ; there was only one little drawback to this week of holiday and happy intercourse with her father . 
Mrs. Gibson , whose object was to squeeze herself into `` county society , '' had taken this being left out of the smaller festivities with great equanimity ; but Molly missed the kind homeliness of the parties to which she had gone from time to time as long as she could remember ; and though , as each three-cornered note was brought in , she grumbled a little over the loss of another charming evening with her father , she really was glad to go again in the old way among old friends . 
Sister looked to sister with an approving nod as Molly named the second letter , which arrived in Hollingford the very day before Mrs. Gibson was to return . 
They had settled between themselves that two letters would show the right amount of good feeling and proper understanding in the Gibson family : more would have been extravagant ; only one would have been a mere matter of duty . 
It would be very conjugal to write twice to Mr. Gibson ; and yet it would be very pretty if Molly came in for her share . 
`` You see a great deal of Mr. Preston , do n't you , Molly ! '' 
said Molly , flushing up with surprise . 
Molly knew that little bird from her childhood , and had always hated it , and longed to wring its neck . 
`` The little bird was flying about one day in Heath Lane , and it saw Mr. Preston and a young lady -- we wo n't say who -- walking together in a very friendly manner , that is to say , he was on horseback ; but the path is raised above the road , just where there is the little wooden bridge over the brook -- '' `` Perhaps Molly is in the secret , and we ought not to ask her about it , '' said Miss Phoebe , seeing Molly 's extreme discomfiture and annoyance . 
`` It can be no great secret , '' said Miss Browning , dropping the little-bird formula , and assuming an air of dignified reproval at Miss Phoebe 's interruption , `` for Miss Hornblower says Mr. Preston owns to being engaged -- '' `` At any rat it is not to Cynthia , that I know positively , '' said Molly with some vehemence . 
It was not very respectful of Molly to speak in this way , to be sure , but she thought only of Roger ; and the distress any such reports might cause , should he ever hear of them -LRB- in the centre of Africa ! -RRB- 
made her colour up scarlet with vexation . 
Really , Molly -- '' `` I beg your pardon , '' said Molly , only half-penitent . 
Molly did not answer all at once . 
She wanted to explain how much mischief might be done by such reports . 
`` But do n't you see , '' she went on , still flushed by vexation , `` how bad it is to talk of such things in such a way ? 
`` Molly ! 
`` I know nothing about it , '' said Molly , `` and I daresay I have been impertinent , only please do n't talk about it any more . 
She got up , for by the striking of the church clock she had just found out that it was later than she had thought , and she knew that her father would be a home by this time . 
She bent down and kissed Miss Browning 's grave and passive face . 
`` How you are growing , Molly ! '' 
`` Grow in grace , Molly , as well as in good looks ! '' 
As soon as she was fairly gone , Miss Browning got up and shut the door quite securely , and then sitting down near her sister , she said , in a low voice , `` Phoebe , it was Molly herself that was with Mr. Preston in Heath Lane that day when Mrs. Goodenough saw them together ! '' 
Did n't you notice how red Molly went , and then pale , and how she said she knew for a fact that Mr. Preston and Cynthia Kirkpatrick were not engaged ? '' 
Molly and Cynthia have got their new plaid shawls just alike , and they trim their bonnets alike , and Molly is grown as tall as Cynthia since Christmas . 
I was always afraid she 'd be short and stumpy , but she 's now as tall and slender as any one need be . 
I 'll answer for it , Mrs. Goodenough saw Molly , and took her for Cynthia . 
Presently she said , `` I do hope it was n't Molly Gibson . '' 
Time enough to set reports afloat about Molly when we know there 's some truth in them . 
He must not , and he shall not , have Molly , if I go into church and forbid the banns myself ; but I 'm afraid -- I 'm afraid there 's something between her and him . 
`` And now , Molly , what have your and papa been doing ? 
We must do your hair differently , '' she continued , trying to smooth Molly 's black waves into straightness . 
`` I sent Cynthia an African letter , '' said Molly , timidly . 
asked Molly . 
`` She would hardly enjoy herself , '' said Molly . 
And she went out of the room to finish her unpacking . 
Molly let her work fall , and sighed . 
How could we all bear it , if -- '' She covered her face with her hands , and tried to stop thinking . 
Suddenly she got up , as if stung by a venomous fancy . 
But she found the long suspense as to his health hard enough to endure . 
They were not likely to hear from him for a month at least , and before that time had elapsed Cynthia would be at home again . 
Molly learnt to long for her return before a fortnight of her absence was over . 
She had had no idea that perpetual tête-à-têtes with Mrs. Gibson could , by any possibility , be so tiresome as she found them . 
Perhaps Molly 's state of delicate health , consequent upon her rapid growth during the last few months , made her irritable ; but really often she had to get up and leave the room to calm herself down after listening to a long series of words , more frequently plaintive or discontented in tone than cheerful , and which at the end conveyed no distinct impression of either the speaker 's thought or feeling . 
Whenever anything had gone wrong , whenever Mr. Gibson had coolly persevered in anything to which she had objected ; whenever the cook had made a mistake about the dinner , or the housemaid broken any little frangible article ; whenever Molly 's hair was not done to her liking , or her dress did not become her , or the smell of dinner pervaded the house , or the wrong callers came , or the right callers did not come -- in fact , whenever anything went wrong , poor Mr. Kirkpatrick was regretted and mourned over , nay , almost blamed , as if , had he only given himself the trouble of living , he could have helped it . 
`` I thought harpstrings required a pretty strong finger to make them sound , '' said Molly . 
`` It only makes it curl more and more when it gets dry , '' said Molly , sudden tears coming into her eyes as a recollection came before her like a picture seen long ago and forgotten for years -- a young mother washing and dressing her little girl ; placing the half-naked darling on her knee , and twining the wet rings of dark hair fondly round her fingers , and then , in an ecstasy of fondness , kissing the little curly head . 
There was constant mention made of many new names , which conveyed no idea to Molly , though Mrs. Gibson would try and enlighten her by running commentaries like the following : -- `` Mrs. Green ! 
She brought home all sorts of pretty and dainty devices for Molly ; a neck-ribbon made up in the newest fashion , a pattern for a tippet , a delicate pair of tight gloves , embroidered as Molly had never seen gloves embroidered before , and many another little sign of remembrance during her absence . 
Yet somehow or other , Molly felt that Cynthia was changed in her relation to her . 
Molly was aware that she had never had Cynthia 's full confidence , for with all her apparent frankness and naïveté of manner , Cynthia was extremely reserved and reticent . 
She knew this much of herself , and had often laughed about it to Molly , and the latter had by this time found out the truth of her friend 's assertion . 
But Molly did not trouble herself much about it . 
She too knew that there were many thoughts and feelings that flitted through her mind which she should never think of telling to any one , except perhaps -- if they were ever very much thrown together -- to her father . 
She knew that Cynthia withheld from her more than thoughts and feelings -- that she withheld facts . 
But then , as Molly reflected , these facts might involve details of struggle and suffering -- might relate to her mother 's neglect -- and altogether be of so painful a character , that it would be well if Cynthia could forget her childhood altogether , instead of fixing it in her mind by the relation of her grievances and troubles . 
So it was not now by any want of confidence that Molly felt distanced as it were . 
It was because Cynthia rather avoided than sought her companionship ; because her eyes shunned the straight , serious , loving look of Molly 's ; because there were certain subjects on which she evidently disliked speaking , not particularly interesting things as far as Molly could perceive , but it almost seemed as if they lay on the road to points to be avoided . 
Molly felt a sort of sighing pleasure in noticing Cynthia 's changed manner of talking about Roger . 
She spoke of him tenderly now ; `` poor Roger , '' as she called him ; and Molly thought that she must be referring to the illness which he had mentioned in his last letter . 
All this Molly noticed , as well as Cynthia 's flush of colour as she read what was thus pointed out to her . 
Then she pushed it a little on one side , not closing the book , however , and went on with her work . 
asked Molly , stretching out her hand for the pamphlet , which lay within her reach . 
But she did not take it until Cynthia had said -- `` Certainly ; I do n't suppose there are any great secrets in a scientific journal , full of reports of meetings . '' 
And she gave the book a little push towards Molly . 
said Molly , catching her breath as she read , `` are you not proud ? '' 
But Molly might have known Cynthia better than to expect an answer responsive to the feelings that prompted her question . 
`` I 'm afraid I 'm not as much struck by the wonder of the thing as you are , Molly . 
`` Nonsense , '' said Molly . 
Molly began to read the report over again . 
she said , `` you might have been there ; ladies were there . 
`` Once for all , Molly , '' said Cynthia , now laying down her work , and speaking with quick authority , `` do learn to understand that it is , and always has been my wish , not to have the relation which Roger and I bear to each other , mentioned or talked about . 
Molly looked at her with dismay . 
`` I ca n't understand you , Cynthia , '' she said at length . 
In a moment , Molly 's arms were round her . 
`` Oh , Cynthia , '' she murmured , `` have I been plaguing you ? 
`` I do n't know that I am so very bad , '' said Cynthia , smiling a little through the tears that Molly 's words and caresses had forced to overflow from her eyes . 
I do sometimes believe I shall always be in scrapes , and if they ever come to light , I shall seem to be worse than I really am ; and I know your father will throw me off , and I -- no , I wo n't be afraid that you will , Molly . '' 
asked Molly , very timidly . 
I 've a great mind to tell you all about it , Molly . '' 
Molly did not like to urge it , though she longed to know , and to see if she could not offer help ; but while Cynthia was hesitating , and perhaps , to say the truth , rather regretting that she had even made this slight advance towards bestowing her confidence , Mrs. Gibson came in , full of some manner of altering a gown of hers , so as to make it into the fashion of the day , as she had seen it during her visit to London . 
Why , within eight miles of Hollingford ; it might have been Molly there or me ; it 's all a chance ; and then they go and talk about the pleasures of intellectual society in London , and the distinguished people up there that it is such an advantage to know , and all the time I know it 's only shops and the play that 's the real attraction . 
Mind that , Molly , '' said she , firing round upon the startled Molly ; `` I wish Cynthia a husband with a good character ; but she 's got a mother to look after her ; you 've none , and when your mother was alive she was a dear friend of mine : so I 'm not going to let you throw yourself away upon any one whose life is n't clear and aboveboard , you may depend upon it ! '' 
Miss Browning , in her secret heart , meant it as warning against the intimacy she believed that Molly had formed with Mr. Preston ; but as it happened that Molly had never dreamed of any such intimacy , the girl could not imagine why such severity of speech should be addressed to her . 
Mrs. Gibson , who always took up the points of every word or action where they touched her own self -LRB- and called it sensitiveness -RRB- , broke the silence that followed Miss Browning 's speech by saying , plaintively , -- `` I 'm sure , Miss Browning , you are very much mistaken if you think that any mother could take more care of Molly than I do . 
It hurts my feelings , indeed it does ; for Molly can tell you there is not a thing or a favour that Cynthia has , that she has not . 
`` I did not mean to offend you , but I meant just to give Molly a hint . 
She understands what I mean . '' 
`` I 'm sure I do not , '' said Molly , boldly . 
`` I shall not stand on warning you , Molly . 
I shall forbid the banns in church , if need be , '' said Miss Browning , half convinced of the clear transparent truth of what Molly had said ; blushing all over , it is true , but with her steady eyes fixed on Miss Browning 's face while she spoke . 
said Molly . 
But remember what I have said , Molly ; there 's no harm in that , at any rate . 
If Miss Browning thought that her final blessing would secure peace in the room she was leaving , she was very much mistaken ; Mrs. Gibson burst out with , -- `` Try and do my duty , indeed ! 
I should be much obliged to you , Molly , if you would take care not to behave in such a manner as to bring down upon me such impertinence as I have just been receiving from Miss Browning . '' 
`` But I do n't know what made her talk as she did , mamma , '' said Molly . 
Mrs. Gibson shrank from any conflicts with Cynthia , pretty sure that she would be worsted in the end ; while Molly generally submitted sooner than have any struggle for her own will . 
`` Why , Molly has been doing something which has set that impertinent Miss Browning off into lecturing me on trying to do my duty ! 
She came forward , and again asked Molly what was the matter . 
Molly , herself ruffled , made answer , -- `` Miss Browning seemed to think I was likely to marry some one whose character was objectionable -- '' `` You , Molly ? '' 
`` Yes -- she once before spoke to me , -- I suspect she has got some notion about Mr. Preston in her head -- '' Cynthia sate down quite suddenly . 
Molly went on : `` And she spoke as if mamma did not look enough after me , -- I think she was rather provoking -- '' `` Not rather , but very -- very impertinent , '' said Mrs. Gibson , a little soothed by Molly 's recognition of her grievance . 
`` What could have put it into her head ? '' 
`` I 'm sure I do n't always approve of Mr. Preston ; but even if it was him she was thinking about , he 's far more agreeable than she is ; and I had much rather have him coming to call than an old maid like her any day . '' 
`` I do n't know that it was Mr. Preston she was thinking about , '' said Molly . 
Unseen by her mother Cynthia looked up at Molly , her eyes full of prohibition , her cheeks full of angry colour . 
Molly stopped short suddenly . 
After that look she was surprised at the quietness with which Cynthia said , almost immediately , -- `` Well , after all , it is only your fancy that she was alluding to Mr. Preston , so perhaps we had better not say any more about him ; and as for her advice to mamma to look after you better , Miss Molly , I 'll stand bail for your good behaviour ; for both mamma and I know you 're the last person to do any foolish things in that way . 
Cynthia turned quietly round to Molly . 
`` Molly , pray do n't ever allude to anything between me and Mr. Preston , -- not to mamma , nor to any one . 
Mrs. Gibson came back at this moment , and Molly had to stop short again on the brink of Cynthia 's confidence ; uncertain indeed this time , whether she would have been told anything more , and only sure that she had annoyed Cynthia a good deal . 
Cynthia seemed to keep every one out at -LRB- mental -RRB- arms ' - length ; and particularly avoided any private talks with Molly . 
Mrs. Gibson , still cherishing a grudge against Miss Browning for her implied accusation of not looking enough after Molly , chose to exercise a most wearying supervision over the poor girl . 
just as if Molly had really been detected in carrying on some underhand intercourse . 
She answered every question asked of her with the simple truthfulness of perfect innocence ; but the inquiries -LRB- although she read their motive , and knew that they arose from no especial suspicion of her conduct , but only that Mrs. Gibson might be able to say that she looked well after her stepdaughter , -RRB- chafed her inexpressibly . 
It was a very heavy time for Molly , -- zest and life had fled , and left so many of the old delights mere shells of seeming . 
She thought it was that her youth had fled ; at nineteen ! 
Yet Cynthia herself seemed anxious and care-worn , though she would not speak of her anxieties to Molly . 
And then the poor girl in her goodness would blame herself for feeling Cynthia 's change of manner ; for as Molly said to herself , `` If it is hard work for me to help always fretting after Roger , and wondering where he is , and how he is , what must it be for her ? '' 
`` Molly , '' said he , `` where 's Cynthia ? '' 
Mrs. Gibson was out of the room ; out of the house it might be , for all Molly cared , now she had her father 's leave and command . 
Her bonnet and cloak were on in two minutes , and she was sitting by her father 's side , the back seat shut up , and the light weight going swiftly and merrily bumping over the stone-paved lanes . 
said Molly , after a toss-up on her seat from a tremendous bump . 
She went up to the top of the hill ; and there they sate still a minute or two , enjoying the view , without much speaking . 
To go to Croston Heath , Molly had to go down a narrow lane overshadowed by trees , with picturesque old cottages dotted here and there on the steep sandy banks ; and then there came a small wood , and then there was a brook to be crossed on a plank-bridge , and up the steeper fields on the opposite side were cut steps in the turfy path ; which ended , she was on Croston Heath , a wide-stretching common skirted by labourers ' dwellings , past which a near road to Hollingford lay . 
But Molly cared little for loneliness . 
She went along the lane under the overarching elm-branches , from which , here and there , a yellow leaf came floating down upon her very dress ; past the last cottage where a little child had tumbled down the sloping bank , and was publishing the accident with frightened cries . 
Molly stooped to pick it up , and taking it in her arms in a manner which caused intense surprise to take the place of alarm in its little breast , she carried it up the rough flag steps towards the cottage which she supposed to be its home . 
The mother came running in from the garden behind the house , still holding the late damsons she had been gathering in her apron ; but , on seeing her , the little creature held out its arms to go to her , and she dropped her damsons all about as she took it , and began to soothe it as it cried afresh , interspersing her lulling with thanks to Molly . 
She called her by her name ; and on Molly asking the woman how she came to know it , she replied that she had been a servant of Mrs. Goodenough before her marriage , and so was `` bound to know Dr. Gibson 's daughter by sight . '' 
After the exchange of two or three more words , Molly ran down into the lane , and pursued her way , stopping here and there to gather a nosegay of such leaves as struck her for their brilliant colouring . 
She entered the wood . 
As she turned a corner in the lonely path , she heard a passionate voice of distress ; and in an instant she recognized Cynthia 's tones . 
She stood still and looked around . 
So Molly left the path , and went straight , plunging through the brown tangled growth of ferns and underwood , and turned the holly bushes . 
There stood Mr. Preston and Cynthia ; he holding her hands tight , each looking as if just silenced in some vehement talk by the rustle of Molly 's footsteps . 
Then Cynthia said , -- `` Oh , Molly , Molly , come and judge between us ! '' 
Molly came forward and took Cynthia 's arm , her eyes steadily fixed on Mr. Preston 's face . 
It was fine to see the fearlessness of her perfect innocence . 
He could not bear her look , and said to Cynthia , -- `` The subject of our conversation does not well admit of a third person 's presence . 
`` I will go if Cynthia wishes me , '' said Molly . 
He stepped forward to try and take her hand and soothe her ; but she shrank away from him , and sobbed the more irrepressibly . 
She felt Molly 's presence so much to be a protection that now she dared to let herself go , and weaken herself by giving way to her emotion . 
said Molly . 
`` Go , '' said Molly , vehemently , `` if it really distresses you to see her cry . 
`` Oh , Molly , I do n't know what to do , '' said Cynthia , taking down her hands from her tear-stained face , and appealing to Molly , and sobbing worse than ever ; in fact , she became hysterical , and though she tried to speak coherently , no intelligible words would come . 
`` Run to that cottage in the trees , and fetch her a cup of water , '' said Molly . 
said Molly , impatiently . 
`` I have not done speaking to her ; you will not leave before I come back ? '' 
Do n't you see she ca n't move in this state ? '' 
At length she said , -- `` Molly , I do hate him ! '' 
`` But what did he mean by saying you were engaged to him ? 
he is coming back . 
`` With all my heart , '' said Molly . 
`` Now , '' said Molly , `` we had better go home as fast as you can manage it ; it is getting dark quickly . '' 
If she hoped to carry Cynthia off so easily she was mistaken . 
`` Oh , Molly , '' said Cynthia , trembling all over , but trying to be calm , `` I am not engaged -- neither to the person you mean , nor to Mr. Preston . '' 
`` I am quite puzzled by you both , '' said Molly . 
`` Pray , pray do n't Molly -- you do n't know all -- you do n't know anything about it ; you mean well and kindly , I know , but you are only making mischief . 
She took Molly 's arm and tried to hasten her away ; but Mr. Preston followed , talking as he walked by their side . 
`` Never me , '' said Molly , touched by the wailing tone of despair that Cynthia was falling into . 
Oh , Molly , I have saved and scrimped to repay it , and he wo n't take it now ; I thought if I could but repay it would set me free . '' 
They were nearly on the common now , close to the protection of the cottages , in very hearing of their inmates ; if neither of the other two thought of this Molly did , and resolved in her mind to call in at one of them , and ask for the labourer 's protection home ; at any rate his presence must put a stop to this miserable altercation . 
Once , when Molly said something to Cynthia , the latter replied -- `` Molly , if you pity me -- if you love me -- do n't say anything more just now . 
So Molly did not say another word till they reached home ; and then , comparatively at ease , inasmuch as no one perceived how late was their return to the house , each of the girls went up into their separate rooms , to rest and calm themselves before dressing for the necessary family gathering at dinner . 
Molly felt as if she were so miserably shaken that she could not have gone down at all , if her own interests only had been at stake . 
She sate by her dressing-table , holding her head in her hands , her candles unlighted , and the room in soft darkness , trying to still her beating heart , and to recall all she had heard , and what would be its bearing on the lives of those whom she loved . 
What lay before Molly was , to try and extricate Cynthia , if she could help her by thought , or advice , or action ; not to weaken herself by letting her fancy run into pictures of possible , probable suffering . 
Cynthia sate in the shade , so it was only by her sensitive ear that Molly could judge of her state of composure . 
To Molly 's quick sympathy Cynthia 's voice sounded languid and weary , but she made all the proper replies , and expressed the proper interest at the right places , and Molly came to the rescue , chiming in , with an effort , it is true ; but Mrs. Gibson was not one to notice slight shades or differences in manner . 
She listened to his remarks and stories with all the sweet intentness of happier days , till Molly , silent and wondering , could hardly believe that the Cynthia before her was the same girl as she who was sobbing and crying as if her heart would break , but two hours before . 
It is true she looked pale and heavy-eyed , but that was the only sign she gave of her past trouble , which yet must be a present care , thought Molly . 
Molly alone could neither read , nor sleep , nor work . 
She sate in the seat in the bow-window ; the blind was not drawn down , for there was no danger of their being overlooked . 
She gazed into the soft outer darkness , and found herself striving to discern the outlines of objects -- the cottage at the end of the garden -- the great beech-tree with the seat round it -- the wire arches , up which the summer roses had clambered ; each came out faint and dim against the dusky velvet of the atmosphere . 
thought Molly . 
Both Molly and Cynthia went to their own rooms without exchanging a word . 
When Molly was in hers she had forgotten whether she was to go to Cynthia , or Cynthia to come to her . 
She took off her gown and put on her dressing-gown , and stood and waited , and even sat down for a minute or two : but Cynthia did not come , so Molly went and knocked at the opposite door , which , to her surprise , she found shut . 
When she entered the room Cynthia sate by her dressing-table , just as she came up from the drawing-room . 
She had been leaning her head on her arms , and seemed almost to have forgotten the tryst she had made with Molly , for she looked up as if startled , and her face did seem full of worry and distress ; in her solitude she made no more exertion , but gave way to thoughts of care . 
`` You said I might come , '' said Molly , `` and that you would tell me all . '' 
`` I 've been thinking a great deal , '' said Molly , timidly and doubtfully . 
`` And I ca n't help fancying if you told papa -- '' Before she could go on , Cynthia had stood up . 
That horrid man has managed to get you involved in some way ; but I am sure papa could set it to rights , if you would only make a friend of him , and tell him all -- '' `` No , Molly , '' said Cynthia , `` I ca n't , and there 's an end of it . 
`` You know I would never tell anything you wished me not to tell , Cynthia , '' said Molly , deeply hurt . 
You should not have doubted me , '' said Molly , still a little sorrowfully . 
`` But do think of telling papa , and getting him to help you , '' persevered Molly . 
I have often told you that he -LRB- and you too , Molly , -RRB- had a higher standard than I had ever known . 
`` Well , never mind , dear ; he shall not know , '' said Molly , for Cynthia was again becoming hysterical , -- `` at least , we 'll say no more about it now . '' 
said Molly , after a long pause of silence . 
I had been shut up in that great dreary house at Ashcombe , where mamma had her school ; it belonged to Lord Cumnor , and Mr. Preston as his agent had to see it all painted and papered ; but , besides that , he was very intimate with us ; I believe mamma thought -- no , I 'm not sure about that , and I have enough blame to lay at her door , to prevent my telling you anything that may be only fancy -- '' Then she paused and sate still for a minute or two , recalling the past . 
Molly was struck by the aged and careworn expression which had taken temporary hold of the brilliant and beautiful face ; she could see from that how much Cynthia must have suffered from this hidden trouble of hers . 
said Molly , half afraid of appearing to cast blame by her very natural question . 
said Molly . 
`` I am sorry , '' said Molly , humbly , `` I have been so happy with papa . 
It does n't sound so very wrong , does it , Molly ? '' 
`` No , '' said Molly , hesitatingly . 
She did not wish to make herself into a hard judge , and yet she did so dislike Mr. Preston . 
But that night I got a letter from him , apologizing for startling me , renewing his offer , his entreaties for a promise of marriage , to be fulfilled at any date I would please to name -- in fact , a most urgent love-letter , and in it a reference to my unlucky debt , which was to be a debt no longer , only an advance of the money to be hereafter mine if only -- You can fancy it all , Molly , better than I can remember it to tell it you . '' 
asked Molly , breathless . 
So , of course , I never ventured to name the hateful twenty pounds to her , but went on trying to think that if I was to marry Mr. Preston , it need never be paid -- very mean and wicked , I daresay ; but oh , Molly , I 've been punished for it , for now I abhor that man . '' 
Now , Molly , you must forget as soon as I 've told you what I 'm going to say ; and she used to talk so much and perpetually about her cousin Robert -- he was the great man of the family , evidently -- and how he was so handsome , and every lady of the land in love with him , -- a lady of title into the bargain -- '' `` Lady Harriet ! 
I daresay , '' said Molly , indignantly . 
So now you understand it all , Molly . '' 
asked Molly . 
`` Never mind the exposure , '' said Molly . 
said Molly , rising up in her indignation , and standing before Cynthia almost as resolutely fierce as if she were in the very presence of Mr. Preston himself . 
And if Mr. Preston ever guessed that Roger and I were engaged , he would manage to be revenged on both him and me , by giving us as much pain as he could with those unlucky letters -- written when I was not sixteen , Molly , -- only seven of them ! 
said Molly , thinking : `` for get them I will . 
Molly 's arms were round her in a minute , and she pressed the beautiful head to her bosom , and laid her own cheek upon it , and hushed her up with lulling words , just as if she were a little child . 
And Molly made reply , -- `` I am sure we have right on our side ; and that makes me certain he must and shall give up the letters . '' 
added Cynthia , lifting her head , and looking eagerly into Molly 's face . 
Oh , Molly , you can never manage it all without its coming out to your father ! 
I almost think I would rather -- no , not that , '' said she , shuddering away from what she was going to say . 
`` But he must not know -- please , Molly , he must not know . 
You do not think I would for anything short of saving -- '' She was going to have said , `` saving you and Roger from pain . '' 
`` I have promised once , '' said Molly , `` but I promise again ; so now do go to bed , and try and rest . 
But when Molly got into her room all her spirit left her ; and she threw herself down on her bed , dressed as she was , for she had no heart left for anything . 
If Roger ever heard of it all by any chance , she felt how it would disturb his love for Cynthia . 
Unwillingly , Molly was compelled to perceive that there must have been a good deal of underhand work going on beneath Cynthia 's apparent openness of behaviour ; and still more unwillingly she began to be afraid that she herself might be led into the practice . 
Cynthia was pale ; but she talked as quietly as usual about all manner of different things , while Molly sate silent , watching and wondering , and becoming convinced that Cynthia must have gone through a long experience of concealing her real thoughts and secret troubles before she could have been able to put on such a semblance of composure . 
and Molly too ? 
Molly understood now why her moods had been , so changeable for many months , and was tender and forbearing with her accordingly . 
Towards evening , when the two girls were left alone , Cynthia came and stood over Molly , so that her face could not be seen . 
`` Molly , '' said she , `` will you do it ? 
Now it so happened that , with every thought she had given to it , Molly disliked the idea of the proposed interview with Mr. Preston more and more ; but it was , after all , her own offer , and she neither could nor would draw back from it ; it might do good ; she did not see how it could possibly do harm . 
So she gave her consent , and tried to conceal her distaste , which grew upon her more and more as Cynthia hastily arranged the details , `` You shall meet him in the avenue leading from the park lodge up to the Towers . 
It did strike Molly that Cynthia must have had some experience in making all these arrangements ; and she ventured to ask how he was to be informed of all this . 
If I can but once be free -- oh , Molly , I will love you , and be grateful to you all my life ! '' 
Molly thought of Roger , and that thought prompted her next speech . 
She blushed as she spoke . 
Loaded with many such messages , which she felt that she would never deliver , not really knowing what she should say , hating the errand , not satisfied with Cynthia 's manner of speaking about her relations to Roger , oppressed with shame and complicity in conduct which appeared to her deceitful , yet willing to bear all and brave all , if she could once set Cynthia in a straight path -- in a clear space , and almost more pitiful to her friend 's great distress and possible disgrace , than able to give her that love which involves perfect sympathy , Molly set out on her walk towards the appointed place . 
It was a cloudy , blustering day , and the noise of the blowing wind among the nearly leafless branches of the great trees filled her ears , as she passed through the park-gates and entered the avenue . 
She walked quickly , instinctively wishing to get her blood up , and have no time for thought . 
Molly did not like going quite out of sight of the lodge , and she stood facing it , close by the trunk of one of the trees . 
Presently she heard a step coming on the grass . 
But when he came nearer , almost close , the figure turned round , and , instead of the brilliantly coloured face of Cynthia , he met the pale resolved look of Molly . 
She did not speak to greet him ; but though he felt sure from the general aspect of pallor and timidity that she was afraid of him , her steady gray eyes met his with courageous innocence . 
asked he , perceiving that she expected him . 
`` I did not know you thought that you should meet her , '' said Molly , a little surprised . 
In her simplicity she had believed that Cynthia had named that it was she , Molly Gibson , who would meet Mr. Preston at a given time and place ; but Cynthia had been too worldly-wise for that , and had decoyed him thither by a vaguely worded note , which , while avoiding actual falsehood , led him to believe that she herself would give him the meeting . 
Molly hesitated a little before she spoke . 
He was determined not to break the silence ; as she had intruded herself into the affair , she should find her situation as awkward as possible . 
`` At any rate she sent me here to meet you , '' said Molly . 
Molly reddened . 
She perceived the impertinence of the tone ; and her temper was none of the coolest . 
But she mastered herself and gained courage by so doing . 
Molly interrupted him : she was chafed at the conceit of his manner . 
`` She will never marry you , '' said Molly , firmly . 
Molly almost could have laughed , she was so secure and certain that Roger would never read letters offered to him under these circumstances ; but then she thought that he would feel such pain at the whole affair , and at the contact with Mr. Preston , especially if he had not heard of it from Cynthia first , and if she , Molly , could save him pain she would . 
Before she could settle what to say , Mr. Preston spoke again . 
`` No , '' said Molly , `` you may not . 
`` It seems to me that this mysterious ` he ' is a very fortunate person to have such a warm defender in Miss Gibson , to whom he is not at all engaged , '' said Mr. Preston , with so disagreeable a look on his face that Molly suddenly found herself on the point of bursting into tears . 
But she rallied herself , and worked on -- for Cynthia first , and for Roger as well . 
He looked so bitterly mortified , that Molly was almost sorry for him . 
`` I can not tell about other people , '' said Molly ; `` I only know that Cynthia does -- '' Here she hesitated for a moment ; she felt for his pain , and so she hesitated ; but then she brought it out -- `` does as nearly hate you as anybody like her ever does hate . '' 
`` I mean , I should hate worse , '' said Molly in a low voice . 
But he did not attend much to her answer . 
Molly was miserably angry with herself for her mismanagement of the affair . 
She had hoped to succeed : she had only made matters worse . 
What new argument could she use ? 
There are -- '' `` Stop , '' said Molly . 
He knew that much , and he wondered how she , the girl standing before him , had been clever enough to find it out . 
He forgot himself for an instant in admiration of her . 
There she stood , frightened , yet brave , not letting go her hold on what she meant to do , even when things seemed most against her ; and besides , there was something that struck him most of all perhaps , and which shows the kind of man he was -- he perceived that Molly was as unconscious that he was a young man , and she a young woman , as if she had been a pure angel of heaven . 
A moment afterwards , Molly 's perception overtook his . 
He could see the startled look overspread her face ; and in an instant she would have run away , but before the first rush was made , Mr. Preston laid his hand firmly on her arm . 
Mr. Preston saw , if Molly did not , the sudden look of intelligence that dawned upon the shrewd ruddy face of the old gentleman -- saw , but did not much heed . 
Molly did not know what to say or do ; so she only bowed a silent farewell , and turned away to go home , feeling very heavy at heart at the non-success of her undertaking . 
For she did not know how she had conquered , in fact , although Mr. Preston might not as yet acknowledge it even to himself . 
Before she was out of hearing , she heard Mr. Sheepshanks say , -- `` Sorry to have disturbed your tête-à-tête , Preston , '' but though she heard the words , their implied sense did not sink into her mind ; she was only feeling how she had gone out glorious and confident , and was coming back to Cynthia defeated . 
Cynthia was on the watch for her return , and , rushing downstairs , dragged Molly into the dining-room . 
`` Well , Molly ? 
She sate down , as if she could get over her disappointment better in that position , and Molly stood like a guilty person before her . 
`` I 'll tell you what , Molly , you 're bound by a promise , you know , and can not tell Mr. Gibson without breaking your solemn word , but it 's just this : I 'll leave Hollingford and never come back again , if ever your father hears of this affair ; there ! '' 
Cynthia stood up now , and began to fold up Molly 's shawl , in her nervous excitement . 
was all that Molly said . 
I was so happy when I first came here ; you all liked me , and admired me , and thought well of me , and now -- Why , Molly , I can see the difference in you already . 
Molly was silent . 
For , through all this long forty-eight hours , Molly had loved Cynthia dearly ; and had been more weighed down by the position the latter was in than Cynthia herself . 
said Molly , trying to smile . 
All the rest of that day Molly was depressed and not well . 
Having anything to conceal was so unusual -- almost so unprecedented a circumstance with her that it preyed upon her in every way . 
It was a nightmare that she could not shake off ; she did so wish to forget it all , and yet every little occurrence seemed to remind her of it . 
The next morning 's post brought several letters ; one from Roger for Cynthia , and Molly , letterless herself , looked at Cynthia as she read it , with wistful sadness . 
It appeared to Molly as though Cynthia should have no satisfaction in these letters , until she had told him what was her exact position with Mr. Preston ; yet Cynthia was colouring and dimpling up as she always did at any pretty words of praise , or admiration , or love . 
But Molly 's thoughts and Cynthia 's reading were both interrupted by a little triumphant sound from Mrs. Gibson , as she pushed a letter she had just received to her husband , with a -- `` There ! 
`` I shall like going , '' said she -- `` all but leaving you , Molly , '' she added , in a lower tone , as if suddenly smitten with some compunction . 
Molly , will you come with me and help me to pack ? 
There was a little flavour of `` protesting too much '' about this ; but Molly did not perceive it . 
She only said , `` Indeed I did not . 
And I 'll tell you what , I 'll trust you with it , Molly , while I pack ; and that shows my sense of your honour -- not but what you might read it all , only you 'd find the love-making dull ; but make a little account of where he is , and what he is doing , date , and that sort of thing , and send it to his father . '' 
Molly took the letter down without a word , and began to copy it at the writing-table ; often reading over what she was allowed to read ; often pausing , her cheek on her hand , her eyes on the letter , and letting her imagination rove to the writer , and all the scenes in which she had either seen him herself , or in which her fancy had painted him . 
She was startled from her meditations by Cynthia 's sudden entrance into the drawing-room , looking the picture of glowing delight . 
holding up a large full envelope , and then quickly replacing it in her pocket , as if she was afraid of being seen . 
coming up and caressing Molly . 
Why , do n't you see these are my very own horrible letters , that I am going to burn directly , that Mr. Preston has had the grace to send me , thanks to you , little Molly -- cuishla ma chree , pulse of my heart , -- the letters that have been hanging over my head like somebody 's sword for these two years ? '' 
said Molly , rousing up a little . 
Now there 's only one thing more to be done ; and if you would but do it for me -- '' -LRB- coaxing and caressing while she asked the question -RRB- . 
Oh , Molly , I should go off with such a light heart if you would only try to get it safely to him . 
Molly was silent . 
`` I do so dislike having these underhand dealings with him , '' pleaded Molly . 
said Molly . 
Molly looked forward to her tête-à-tête two days with Mrs. Gibson with very different anticipations from those with which she had welcomed the similar intercourse with her father . 
But Mrs. Gibson really meant to make Molly happy , and tried to be an agreeable companion , only Molly was not well , and was uneasy about many apprehended cares and troubles -- and at such hours of indisposition as she was then passing through , apprehensions take the shape of certainties , lying await in our paths . 
Molly would have given a good deal to have shaken off all these feelings , unusual enough to her ; but the very house and furniture , and rain-blurred outer landscape , seemed steeped with unpleasant associations , most of them dating from the last few days . 
`` You and I must go on the next journey , I think , my dear , '' said Mrs. Gibson , almost chiming in with Molly 's wish that she could get away from Hollingford into some new air and life , for a week or two . 
It 's a great blessing to have such a dear little home as this , is not it , Molly ? '' 
`` Yes , '' said Molly , rather drearily , having something of the `` Toujours perdrix '' feeling at the moment . 
If she could but have gone away with her father , just for two days , how pleasant it would have been . 
`` Molly thought for a minute or two , and then replied -- `` No , she is certainly not easily affected -- not deeply affected perhaps I should say . '' 
You must know aunt Kirkpatrick some day , Molly , my love ; she is what I call a woman of a truly elegant mind . '' 
For , between ourselves , Molly , I really sometimes think it will come to nothing . 
She asked Molly to accompany her , out of an access of kindness , but was not at all sorry when Molly excused herself and preferred stopping at home . 
Molly enjoyed the house to herself to the full as much as Mrs. Gibson would enjoy having the Towers to herself . 
`` This call is not on you , Molly , '' said he , after the first greetings were over . 
said Molly , wondering if she was wise in alluding to his health , yet urged to it by her real anxiety . 
He always is severe on fanciful patients , is n't he , Molly ? '' 
Molly thought that if he saw Osborne 's looks just then he would hardly think him fanciful , or be inclined to be severe . 
But she only said , -- `` Papa enjoys a joke at everything , you know . 
He loves her very dearly , Molly , '' he said . 
Molly hardly knew how to answer him in all this ; she was so struck by the change in both voice and manner . 
`` Mamma has gone to the Towers , '' she began , at length . 
said Molly ; `` or write to him ? '' 
`` He must not alarm my father , remember , Molly , '' said Osborne , lifting himself by the arms of his chair into an upright position and speaking eagerly for the moment . 
`` I ca n't help understanding you , '' said Molly . 
She was not sure if she ought to have understood what was passing in his mind ; but as she did , she could not help speaking a true reply . 
`` Do n't go on talking so fast , '' said Molly . 
For she was alarmed at the strange pallor that had come over his face . 
It is a relief to think that some one else has my secret ; and you are like one of us , Molly . 
said Molly , surprised . 
`` My dear Molly , why did n't you come and dine with us ? 
and a look of mistaken intelligence at the tête-à-tête she had disturbed came so perceptibly over Miss Phoebe 's face that Molly caught Osborne 's sympathetic eye , and both smiled at the notion . 
one must sometimes -- I see our dinner would have been -- '' Then she recovered herself into a connected sentence . 
Before he left , his eyes met Molly 's with a strange look of yearning farewell that struck her at the time , and that she remembered strongly afterwards . 
`` One guess is just as wrong as the other , '' said Molly , smiling , and trying to look perfectly indifferent , but going extremely red at the mention of Mr. Preston 's name . 
It was very difficult for her to keep up any conversation , for her heart was full of Osborne -- his changed appearance , his melancholy words of foreboding , and his confidence , about his wife -- French , Catholic , servant . 
Molly could not help trying to piece these strange facts together by imaginations of her own , and found it very hard work to attend to kind Miss Phoebe 's unceasing patter . 
She came up to the point , however , when the voice ceased ; and could recall , in a mechanical manner , the echo of the last words , which from both Miss Phoebe 's look , and the dying accent that lingered in Molly 's ear , she perceived to be a question . 
Molly went upstairs to get ready to accompany Miss Phoebe ; and on opening one of her drawers she saw Cynthia 's envelope , containing the money she owed to Mr. Preston , carefully sealed up like a letter . 
This was what Molly had so unwillingly promised to deliver -- the last final stroke to the affair . 
Molly took it up , hating it . 
For a time she had forgotten it ; and now it was here , facing her , and she must try and get rid of it . 
She put it into her pocket for the chances of the walk and the day , and fortune for once seemed to befriend her ; for , on their entering Grinstead 's shop , in which two or three people were now , as always , congregated , making play of examining the books , or business of writing down the titles of new works in the order-book , there was Mr. Preston . 
He could not help that ; but , at the sight of Molly , he looked as ill-tempered and out of humour as a man well could do . 
She was connected in his mind with defeat and mortification ; and besides , the sight of her called up what he desired now , above all things , to forget ; namely , the deep conviction , received through Molly 's simple earnestness , of Cynthia 's dislike to him . 
If Miss Phoebe had seen the scowl upon his handsome face , she might have undeceived her sister in her suppositions about him and Molly . 
Molly fingered her valuable letter , as it lay in her pocket ; did she dare to cross over to Mr. Preston , and give it to him , or not ? 
While she was still undecided , shrinking always just at the moment when she thought she had got her courage up for action , Miss Phoebe , having finished her purchase , turned round , and after looking a little pathetically at Mr. Preston 's back , said to Molly in a whisper -- `` I think we 'll go to Johnson 's now , and come back for the books in a little while . '' 
So across the street to Johnson 's they went ; but no sooner had they entered the draper 's shop , than Molly 's conscience smote her for her cowardice , and loss of a good opportunity . 
`` I 'll be back directly , '' said she , as soon as Miss Phoebe was engaged with her purchases ; and Molly ran across to Grinstead 's , without looking either to the right or the left ; she had been watching the door , and she knew that no Mr. Preston had issued forth . 
She ran in ; he was at the counter now , talking to Grinstead himself ; Molly put the letter into his hand , to his surprise , and almost against his will , and turned round to go back to Miss Phoebe . 
At the door of the shop stood Mrs. Goodenough , arrested in the act of entering , staring , with her round eyes , made still rounder and more owl-like by spectacles , to see Molly Gibson giving Mr. Preston a letter , which he , conscious of being watched , and favouring underhand practices habitually , put quickly into his pocket , unopened . 
Perhaps , if he had had time for reflection he would not have scrupled to put Molly to open shame , by rejecting what she so eagerly forced upon him . 
There was another long evening to be got through with Mrs. Gibson ; but on this occasion there was the pleasant occupation of dinner , which took up at least an hour ; for it was one of Mrs. Gibson 's fancies -- one which Molly chafed against -- to have every ceremonial gone through in the same stately manner for two as for twenty . 
So , although Molly knew full well , and her stepmother knew full well , and Maria knew full well , that neither Mrs. Gibson nor Molly touched dessert , it was set on the table with as much form as if Cynthia had been at home , who delighted in almonds and raisins ; or Mr. Gibson been there , who never could resist dates , though he always protested against `` persons in their station of life having a formal dessert set out before them every day . '' 
And Mrs. Gibson herself apologized , as it were , to Molly to-day , in the same words she had often used to Mr. Gibson , -- `` It 's no extravagance , for we need not eat it -- I never do . 
All through the evening Molly 's thoughts wandered far and wide , though she managed to keep up a show of attention to what Mrs. Gibson was saying . 
It was Cynthia who was doing this ; only somehow he was such a true friend to Molly , that she could not help thinking of him as a staff and a stay in the troublous times which appeared to lie not far ahead -- this evening . 
Then Mr. Preston and her little adventure with him came uppermost . 
And her name is Molly too , -- which , as I have often thought , shows a low taste in them as first called her so ; -- she might as well be a scullery-maid at oncest . 
There 's many a Molly in Hollingford , besides her , -- though none , perhaps , in such a genteel station in life . 
`` My Hannah , as married Tom Oakes , and lives in Pearson 's Lane , was a-gathering of damsons only a week ago , and Molly Gibson was a-walking fast down the lane , -- quite in a hurry like to meet some one , -- and Hannah 's little Anna-Maria fell down , and Molly -LRB- who 's a kind-hearted lass enough -RRB- picked her up ; so if Hannah had had her doubts before , she had none then . '' 
`` But I did n't think Molly Gibson was one of that sort , I did n't . '' 
But as soon as Mrs. Goodenough heard this natural comment on the disclosures she had made , she fired round on the speaker : -- `` Not at all bad , and I 'll trouble you not to use such a word as that about Molly Gibson , as I 've known all her life . 
All as ever I said was that I was surprised at it in Molly Gibson ; and that I 'd ha ' thought it was liker that pretty piece of a Cynthia as they call her ; indeed , at one time I was ready to swear as it was her Mr. Preston was after . 
But Molly managed to arrest him in the hall , standing there with his great coat held out ready for him to put on , but whispering as she did so -- `` Papa ! 
Mr. Gibson faced about , and looked at her for a moment ; but all he said was -- `` I 'll go and see him ; do n't tell your mother where I 'm gone : you 've not mentioned this to her , I hope ? '' 
`` No , '' said Molly , for she had only told Mrs. Gibson of Osborne 's call , not of the occasion for it . 
Something in her father 's manner disheartened Molly , who had persuaded herself that Osborne 's evident illness was partly `` nervous , '' by which she meant imaginary . 
Molly almost wondered that it had not come to her ; but she did not understand the sort of reserve that was springing up in Cynthia 's mind towards her . 
Cynthia herself struggled with the feeling , and tried to fight against it by calling herself `` ungrateful ; '' but the truth was , she believed that she no longer held her former high place in Molly 's estimation and she could not help turning away from one who knew things to her discredit . 
She was fully aware of Molly 's prompt decision and willing action , where action was especially disagreeable , on her behalf ; she knew that Molly would never bring up the past errors and difficulties ; but still the consciousness that the good , straightforward girl had learnt that Cynthia had been guilty of so much underhand work cooled her regard , and restrained her willingness of intercourse . 
Reproach herself with ingratitude as she would , she could not help feeling glad to be away from Molly ; it was awkward to speak to her as if nothing had happened ; it was awkward to write to her about forgotten ribbons and laces , when their last conversation had been on such different subjects , and had called out such vehement expressions of feeling . 
`` Helen can not be so very ill , '' said Molly at length , `` or Cyn would not want her pink muslin and daisy wreath . '' 
As far as Molly could make any sense out of this rather incoherent epistle , very incoherently read aloud to her , Cynthia was really pleased , and glad to be of use and comfort to Helen , but at the same time very ready to be easily persuaded into the perpetual small gaieties which abounded in her uncle 's house in London , even at this dead season of the year . 
Mrs. Gibson came upon Mr. Henderson 's name once , and then went on with a running um-um-um to herself , which sounded very mysterious , but which might as well have been omitted , as all that Cynthia really said about him was , `` Mr. Henderson 's mother has advised my aunt to consult a certain Dr. Donaldson , who is said to be very clever in such cases as Helen 's , but my uncle is not sufficiently sure of the professional etiquette , & c. '' Then there came a very affectionate , carefully worded message to Molly , -- implying a good deal more than was said of loving gratitude for the trouble she had taken in Cynthia 's behalf . 
And that was all ; and Molly went away a little depressed ; she knew not why . 
All these days the buzzing gossip about Molly 's meetings with Mr. Preston , her clandestine correspondence , the secret interviews in lonely places , had been gathering strength , and assuming the positive form of scandal . 
So , Molly , who had come between him and the object of his desire , was not likely to find favour in his sight , or to obtain friendly actions from him . 
There came a time -- not very distant from the evening at Mrs. Dawes -- when Molly felt that people looked askance at her . 
Mrs. Goodenough openly pulled her grand-daughter away , when the young girl stopped to speak to Molly in the street , and an engagement which the two had made for a long walk together was cut very short by a very trumpery excuse . 
Mrs. Goodenough explained her conduct in the following manner to some of her friends : -- `` You see , I do n't think the worse of a girl for meeting her sweetheart here and there and everywhere , till she gets talked about ; but then when she does -- and Molly Gibson 's name is in everybody 's mouth -- I think it 's only fair to Bessy , who has trusted me with Annabella -- not to let her daughter be seen with a lass who has managed her matters so badly as to set folk talking about her . 
So Annabella is not to have anything to do with Molly Gibson , this visit at any rate . '' 
For a good while the Miss Brownings were kept in ignorance of the evil tongues that whispered hard words about Molly . 
But Miss Phoebe inspired no such terror ; the great reason why she did not hear of the gossip against Molly as early as any one , was that , although she was not the rose , she lived near the rose . 
Besides , she was of so tender a nature that even thick-skinned Mrs. Goodenough was unwilling to say what would give her pain ; and it was the new-corner Mrs. Dawes , who in all ignorance alluded to the town 's talk , as to something of which Miss Phoebe must be aware . 
`` Molly Gibson has lost her character , sister . 
`` Molly Gibson has done no such thing , '' said Miss Browning indignantly . 
`` Why -- one story was that Molly had given him a letter . '' 
And that must be true ; because I missed her from my side when I wanted to ask if she thought blue would look green by candlelight , as the young man said it would , and she had run across the street , and Mrs. Goodenough was just going into the shop , just as she said she was . '' 
`` Why , that Molly and Mr. Preston were keeping company just as if she was a maid-servant and he was a gardener : meeting at all sorts of improper times and places , and fainting away in his arms , and out at night together , and writing to each other , and slipping their letters into each other 's hands ; and that was what I was talking about , sister , for I next door to saw that done once . 
`` If I speak to Molly , the child will deny it , if she 's half as good-for-nothing as they say ; and if she 's not , she 'll only worry herself to death . 
Miss Browning went to Mrs. Dawes ' and began civilly enough to make inquiries concerning the reports current in Hollingford about Molly and Mr. Preston ; and Mrs. Dawes fell into the snare , and told all the real and fictitious circumstances of the story in circulation , quite unaware of the storm that was gathering and ready to fall upon her as soon as she had stopped speaking . 
`` Mr. Gibson , '' said she , `` it 's your Molly I 'm so grieved about . 
`` Molly ! '' 
`` What 's my little Molly been doing or saying ? '' 
`` I thought you ought to know ; for though you 're married again , I ca n't forget you were dear Mary 's husband once upon a time ; and Molly 's her child . '' 
Do you think I 'd have Molly 's name dragged about the streets in connection with any act of violence on my part . 
`` I shall go home and ask Molly herself what 's the meaning of it all ; that 's all I shall do . 
It 's too ridiculous -- knowing Molly as I do , it 's perfectly ridiculous . '' 
`` I shall always love Molly for her mother 's sake , '' she said . 
`` You ought to love her for her own . 
She has done nothing to disgrace herself . 
There was something in Mr. Gibson 's manner that made Maria obey him to the letter , in spite of Molly 's surprised question . 
He knew that Molly stood there before he heard her tone of astonishment . 
She came to him , wondering what was amiss . 
Her thoughts went to the Hamleys immediately . 
she asked , breathless . 
But instead of allowing himself to seek for comfort from collateral evidence , he said , -- `` Molly , what is this I hear ? 
Though he had professed to disbelieve all this , and did disbelieve it at the bottom of his soul , his voice was hard and stern , his face was white and grim , and his eyes fixed Molly 's with the terrible keenness of their research . 
Molly trembled all over , but she did not attempt to evade his penetration . 
If she was silent for a moment , it was because she was rapidly reviewing her relation with regard to Cynthia in the matter . 
He had taken hold of her two arms just above her wrists , as she had just advanced towards him ; he was unconscious of this action ; but , as his impatience for her words grew upon him , he grasped her more and more tightly in his vice-like hands , till she made a little involuntary sound of pain . 
And then he let go ; and she looked at her soft bruised flesh , with tears gathering fast to her eyes to think that he , her father , should have hurt her so . 
At the instant , it appeared to her stranger that he should inflict bodily pain upon his child , than that he should have heard the truth -- even in an exaggerated form . 
With a childish gesture she held out her arm to him ; but if she expected pity , she received none . 
said she , pleading again , `` have I ever deceived you ? '' 
`` The town 's talk , '' said Molly in dismay . 
He could not help relenting at her words ; there was such truth in the tone in which they were spoken . 
Then he raised his eyes to hers for the first time since she had acknowledged the external truth of what he charged her with . 
Her face was very white , but it bore the impress of the final sincerity of death , when the true expression prevails without the poor disguises of time . 
As the world goes , what you say you have done , Molly , is ground enough . 
If you tell me who the other was , -- if you tell me everything out fully , I will do my utmost to screen her -- for of course I guess it was Cynthia -- while I am exonerating you . '' 
said Molly , after some little consideration ; `` I have told you all I can tell ; all that concerns myself ; and I have promised not to say one word more . '' 
You do n't know , Molly , how slight a thing may blacken a girl 's reputation for life . 
I 'd hard work to stand all she said , even though I did n't believe a word of it at the time . 
But now , at any rate , Mrs. Gibson had not been playing a treacherous part ; that was all the comfort he could extract out of Molly 's mysterious admission , that much mischief might result from Mrs. Gibson 's knowing anything about these meetings with Mr. Preston . 
`` It will try me hard , Molly , '' said he . 
`` Cynthia shall beware -- '' he began ; but Molly put her hand before his mouth . 
Molly put up her mouth to be kissed . 
`` Get out of my way '' -LRB- kissing her all the same -RRB- . 
For all Molly 's bravery at the time of this conversation , it was she that suffered more than her father . 
He kept out of the way of hearing gossip ; but she was perpetually thrown into the small society of the place . 
Mr. Preston did not accept the invitations to Hollingford tea-drinkings with the same eager gratitude as he had done a year before : or else the shadow which hung over Molly would not have extended to him , her co-partner in the clandestine meetings which gave such umbrage to the feminine virtue of the town . 
Molly herself was invited , because it would not do to pass any apparent slight on either Mr. or Mrs. Gibson ; but there was a tacit and underhand protest against her being received on the old terms . 
But Molly , for all her clear conscience and her brave heart , felt acutely that she was only tolerated , not welcomed . 
She caught the buzzing whispers of the two Miss Oakes 's , who , when they first met the heroine of the prevailing scandal , looked at her askance , and criticised her pretensions to good looks , with hardly an attempt at under-tones . 
Molly tried to be thankful that her father was not in the mood for visiting . 
She was even glad that her stepmother was too much of an invalid to come out , when she felt thus slighted , and as it were , degraded from her place . 
Only Miss Phoebe would seek out Molly with even more than her former tenderness ; and this tried Molly 's calmness more than all the slights put together . 
The soft hand , pressing hers under the table , -- the continual appeals to her , so as to bring her back into the conversation , touched Molly almost to shedding tears . 
Sometimes the poor girl wondered to herself whether this change in the behaviour of her acquaintances was not a mere fancy of hers ; whether , if she had never had that conversation with her father , in which she had borne herself so bravely at the time , she should have discovered the difference in their treatment of her . 
She never told her father how she felt these perpetual small slights : she had chosen to bear the burden of her own free will ; nay , more , she had insisted on being allowed to do so ; and it was not for her to grieve him now by showing that she shrank from the consequences of her own act . 
So she never even made an excuse for not going into the small gaieties , or mingling with the society of Hollingford . 
Only she suddenly let go the stretch of restraint she was living in , when one evening her father told her that he was really anxious about Mrs. Gibson 's cough , and should like Molly to give up a party at Mrs. Goodenough 's , to which they were all three invited , but to which Molly alone was going . 
Molly 's heart leaped up at the thoughts of stopping at home , even though the next moment she had to blame herself for rejoicing at a reprieve that was purchased by another 's suffering . 
However , the remedies prescribed by her husband did Mrs. Gibson good ; and she was particularly grateful and caressing to Molly . 
said she , stroking Molly 's head , `` I think your hair is getting softer , and losing that disagreeable crisp curly feeling . '' 
Then Molly knew that her stepmother was in high good-humour ; the smoothness or curliness of her hair was a sure test of the favour in which Mrs. Gibson held her at the moment . 
''' `` I hope we have done everything he told us to do , '' said Molly . 
Mrs. Gibson broke the silence by saying , in a languid voice -- `` Ca n't you think of anything amusing to say , Molly ? '' 
Molly pumped up from the depths of her mind a few little trivialities which she had nearly forgotten , but she felt that they were anything but amusing , and so Mrs. Gibson seemed to feel them ; for presently she said -- `` I wish Cynthia was at home . '' 
And Molly felt it as a reproach to her own dulness . 
Remembering her father 's charge not to speak of Osborne 's health , Molly made no reply , nor was any needed , for Mrs. Gibson went on thinking aloud -- `` You see , if Mr. Henderson has been as attentive as he was in the spring -- and the chances about Roger -- I shall be really grieved if anything happens to that young man , uncouth as he is , but it must be owned that Africa is not merely an unhealthy -- it is a savage -- and even in some parts a cannibal country . 
The future is hidden from us by infinite wisdom , Molly , or else I should like to know it ; one would calculate one 's behaviour at the present time so much better if one only knew what events were to come . 
And , by the way , he was telling me something about Preston ; -- old Sheepshanks thinks he 'll be married before long , -- he says there 's a great deal of gossip going on about him and Gibson 's daughter . 
Now little Molly Gibson has a certain gaucherie about her which would disqualify her at once from any clandestine proceedings . 
The notion of her and Mr. Preston making a match of it does n't sound so incongruous ; but if it 's my little friend Molly , I 'll go to church and forbid the banns . '' 
But then she rallied her courage , and said with more gravity than before , -- `` I am really interested in this story about Molly Gibson , I own . 
I both like and respect her ; and I do not like to hear her name coupled with that of Mr. Preston . 
So they drifted away from Molly and her affairs ; only Lady Harriet kept turning what she had heard over in her own mind with interest and wonder . 
She would not have spoken about the rumour she had heard to any who were not warm friends of Molly 's . 
If Mr. Sheepshanks had chosen to allude to it when she had been riding with her father , she could very soon have silenced him by one of the haughty looks she knew full well how to assume . 
But she felt as if she must know the truth , and accordingly she began thus abruptly to Miss Browning . 
`` What is all this I hear about my little friend Molly Gibson and Mr. Preston ? '' 
`` I 'm afraid it 's no laughing matter for poor Molly , '' said Miss Browning , shaking her head . 
`` I only told you the facts as Mrs. Goodenough told them me , sister ; but I 'm sure if you had seen poor patient Molly as I have done , sitting up in a corner of a room , looking at the Beauties of England and Wales till she must have been sick of them , and no one speaking to her ; and she as gentle and sweet as ever at the end of the evening , though maybe a bit pale -- facts or no facts , I wo n't believe anything against her . '' 
`` But how does your ladyship explain away her meetings with Mr. Preston in all sorts of unlikely and open-air places ? '' 
asked Miss Browning , -- who , to do her justice , would have been only too glad to join Molly 's partisans , if she could have preserved her character for logical deduction at the same time . 
`` I went so far as to send for her father and tell him all about it . 
`` Why , suppose that Mr. Preston is engaged to Miss Kirkpatrick , and Molly is confidante and messenger ? '' 
Why does Molly lend herself to clandestine proceedings ? '' 
`` But I choose to have faith in Molly Gibson . 
I 'm sure she 's not done anything very wrong . 
I 've a great mind to go and call on her -- Mrs. Gibson is confined to her room with this horrid influenza -- and take her with me on a round of calls through the little gossiping town , -- on Mrs. Goodenough , or Badenough , who seems to have been propagating all these stories . 
Lady Harriet , meanwhile , was riding homewards by her father 's side , apparently listening to all he chose to say , but in reality turning over the probabilities and possibilities that might account for these strange interviews between Molly and Mr. Preston . 
But the moment after he had made this polite speech , he recollected Molly 's speech -- that she would refer her case to Lady Harriet . 
She had come off conqueror , he the vanquished . 
Surely she would never have been so ungenerous as to appeal after that . 
However , she consoled herself by calling on the Gibsons ; and , finding that Mrs. Gibson -LRB- who was still an invalid -RRB- was asleep at the time , she experienced no difficulty in carrying off the unconscious Molly for a walk , which Lady Harriet so contrived that they twice passed through all the length of the principal street of the town , loitered at Grinstead 's for half an honr , and wound up by Lady Harriet 's calling on the Miss Brownings , who , to her regret , were not at home . 
`` I 'll leave my card , and put your name down underneath it , Molly . '' 
Molly was a little puzzled by the manner in which she had been taken possession of , like an inanimate chattel , for all the afternoon , and exclaimed , -- `` Please , Lady Harriet -- I never leave cards ; I have not got any , and on the Miss Brownings , of all people ; why , I am in and out whenever I like . '' 
So spoke Lady Harriet , standing on the white door-steps at Miss Brownings ' , and holding Molly 's hand while she wished her good-by . 
And better than you 're aware of , '' continued she , still addressing Molly , though the latter was quite out of hearing . 
If Molly had thought her manner of departure was scarcely as affectionate and considerate as it might have been , -- if such a thought had crossed Molly 's fancy for an instant , she was repentant for it as soon as ever Cynthia returned , and the girls met together face to face , with all the old familiar affection , going upstairs to the drawing-room , with their arms round each other 's waists , and sitting there together hand in hand . 
Molly , why did n't you send for me ? '' 
`` I wanted to do , '' began Molly . 
`` But I would n't let her , '' said Mrs. Gibson . 
It was well for her in this instance that her husband had wisdom and authority enough to forbid her going to this ball , on which she had set her heart ; but the consequence of his prohibition was an increase of domestic plaintiveness and low spirits , which seemed to tell on Cynthia -- the bright gay Cynthia herself -- and it was often hard work for Molly to keep up the spirits of two other people as well as her own . 
Molly was puzzled to account for it ; and all the more perplexed because from time to time Cynthia kept calling upon her for praise for some unknown and mysterious virtue that she had practised ; and Molly was young enough to believe that , after any exercise of virtue , the spirits rose , cheered up by an approving conscience . 
She sometimes said such things as these , when she had been particularly inert and desponding : -- `` Ah , Molly , you must let my goodness lie fallow for a while ! 
Or , `` Really , Molly , my virtue must come down from the clouds ! 
But Molly had had some experience of Cynthia 's whim of perpetually hinting at a mystery which she did not mean to reveal in the Mr. Preston days , and , although she was occasionally piqued into curiosity , Cynthia 's allusions at something more in the background fell in general on rather deaf ears . 
Under all the circumstances , Molly could not appreciate the heroic goodness so often alluded to . 
She looked at Molly , as if to gain courage from the strong serene countenance . 
of course I do n't -- how can I , with Molly always dinning the word ` engagement ' into my ears ? 
`` Certainly , -- '' began Molly ; but then she remembered that her stepmother was far from strong , and unable to bear a protest in favour of the right course without irritation . 
So she changed her speech into a suggestion of remedies for palpitation ; and curbed her impatience to speak out her indignation at the contemplated falsehood to Roger . 
But when they were alone , and Cynthia began upon the subject , Molly was less merciful . 
Cynthia said , -- `` Well , Molly , and now you know all ! 
said Molly , gravely . 
said Molly , simply ; for to her mind the pleasantest and kindest person in the world put in comparison with Roger was as nothing ; he stood by himself . 
`` And , Clare , do you mean to say that you are not aware that your daughter has been engaged to Mr. Preston for some time -- years , I believe , -- and has at last chosen to break it off , -- and has used the Gibson girl -- I forget her name -- as a cat 's - paw , and made both her and herself the town 's talk -- the butt for all the gossip of Hollingford ? 
Here 's Molly '' -LRB- as the girl entered the room , fresh from a morning 's walk -RRB- . 
`` Molly , mamma has come back from the Towers , and my lord and my lady have been doing me the honour to talk over my crimes and misdemeanors , and I am asking mamma what they have said . 
Molly stood by , very hot , not fully understanding it ; and only kept where she was by the hope of coming in as sweetener or peacemaker , or helper of some kind . 
For one moment his eyes met Molly 's , and he comprehended it all . 
Molly sate down by her . 
she answered , softly . 
At last she said , `` Molly knows it all . '' 
Mrs. Gibson , too , had been awed into silence by her husband 's grave manner , and she did not like to give vent to the jealous thought in her mind that Molly had known the secret of which she was ignorant . 
I know that Molly knows it all , and that she has had to bear slander and ill words for your sake , Cynthia . 
`` I could not help it , '' said Molly . 
There 's no need to be ungenerous , Cynthia , because you 've been a flirt and a jilt , even to the degree of dragging Molly 's name down into the same mire . '' 
The thought of his sweet innocent Molly , who had borne so much patiently , prevented any retractation of his words at the time . 
I do say that Molly has had a great deal to bear , in consequence of this clandestine engagement of yours , Cynthia -- there may be extenuating circumstances , I acknowledge -- but you will need to remember them all to excuse your conduct to Roger Hamley , when he comes home . 
`` To be sure , the gossips of the town have n't yet picked out the fact of Roger Hamley 's being your accepted lover ; but scandal has been resting on Molly , and ought to have rested on you , Cynthia -- for a concealed engagement to Mr. Preston -- necessitating meetings in all sorts of places unknown to your friends . '' 
`` Papa , '' said Molly , `` if you knew all you would n't speak so to Cynthia . 
And then , in spite of Molly , who could have detained her by force , she tore herself away , and hastily left the room . 
said Molly , crying , and clinging to him , `` do let me tell you all . '' 
And then she suddenly recollected the awkwardness of telling some of the details of the story before Mrs. Gibson , and stopped short . 
I have loved her ; I do love her almost as if she were my own child -- as well as Molly , I do not pretend to do . '' 
you do not treat her like your own child . '' 
But in the midst of this wrangle Molly stole out , and went in search of Cynthia . 
She thought she bore an olive-branch of healing in the sound of her father 's just spoken words : `` I do love her almost as if she were my own child . '' 
`` Open to me , please , '' pleaded Molly . 
By-and-by we shall meet , and then -- '' Molly stood quite quietly , wondering what new words of more persuasion she could use . 
In a minute or two Cynthia called out , `` Are you there still , Molly ? '' 
and when Molly answered `` Yes , '' and hoped for a relenting , the same hard metallic voice , telling of resolution and repression , spoke out , `` Go away . 
Molly had her out-of-door things on , and she crept away as she was bidden . 
She lifted her heavy weight of heart and body along till she came to a field , not so very far off , -- where she had sought the comfort of loneliness ever since she was a child ; and there , under the hedge-bank , she sate down , burying her face in her hands , and quivering all over as she thought of Cynthia 's misery , which she might not try to touch or assuage . 
Molly arranged her dress and went down into the drawing-room . 
Not so Mrs. Gibson ; her face bore evident marks of tears , and she looked up and greeted Molly 's entrance with a faint smiling notice . 
Cynthia went on as though she had never heard the opening of the door , or felt the approaching sweep of Molly 's dress . 
Molly took up a book , -- not to read , but to have the semblance of some employment which should not necessitate conversation . 
Molly grew to fancy it was some old enchantment that weighed upon their tongues and kept them still . 
Molly 's book went down upon her knees ; with open eyes and lips she strove to draw in Cynthia 's meaning . 
Cynthia did not reply ; nor did the resolute look on her face change when Molly spoke at last . 
said Molly ! 
All I know is , -- and I know it clearly , and will act upon it inflexibly -- that -- '' And here she stopped short . 
`` I think you might finish your sentence , '' said her mother , after a silence of five seconds . 
Yet when Mr. Gibson came home , after a silent dinner , she asked to speak with him , alone , in his consulting-room ; and there laid bare the exculpation of herself which she had given to Molly many weeks before . 
When she had ended , she said : `` And now , Mr. Gibson , -- I still treat you like a friend , -- help me to find some home far away , where all the evil talking and gossip mamma tells me of can not find me and follow me . 
You , Molly , -- all the people in the town , -- I have n't the patience to live through the nine days ' wonder . 
but I love you better than Roger ; I 've often told Molly so . 
To visit Molly with their hard words ! 
He left the room , and called Molly , from where she was sitting , dolefully . 
he whispered , and Molly went . 
She took Cynthia into her arms with gentle power , and laid her head against her own breast , as if the one had been a mother , and the other a child . 
she murmured . 
and she stroked her hair , and kissed her eyelids ; Cynthia passive all the while , till suddenly she started up stung with a new idea , and looking Molly straight in the face , she said , -- `` Molly , Roger will marry you ! 
You two good -- '' But Molly pushed her away with a sudden violence of repulsion . 
she said . 
She was crimson with shame and indignation . 
But Molly gave her back no answering smile . 
Molly was out at the front door , seeking the messenger through the dusk , round into the stable-yard , where the groom sate motionless on his dark horse , flecked with foam , made visible by the lantern placed on the steps near , where it had been left by the servants , who were dismayed at this news of the handsome young man who had frequented their master 's house , so full of sportive elegance and winsomeness . 
Molly went up to the man , whose thoughts were lost in recollection of the scene he had left at the place he had come from . 
She laid her hand on the hot damp skin of the horse 's shoulder ; the man started . 
asked Molly , in a low voice . 
She went into the kitchen -- went over the house with swift rapidity to gain news of her father 's whereabouts . 
The servants knew no more than she did . 
Neither she nor they had heard what Cynthia , ever quick of perception , had done . 
Upstairs sped Molly to the drawing-room , where Mrs. Gibson stood at the door , listening to the unusual stir in the house . 
`` What is it , Molly ? 
cried Molly , frantic at the delay . 
said Molly , half-way up the stairs to meet her , `` who wanted papa ? '' 
To Molly 's hurried questions her replies had been entirely unsatisfactory . 
A man had come to the back door -- she could not see who it was -- she had not asked his name : he wanted to speak to master , -- master had seemed in a hurry , and only stopped to get his hat . 
`` He will not be long away , '' thought Molly , `` or he would have left word where he was going . 
And then a thought came into her head , which she acted upon straight . 
So down into the cluster of collected women Molly came , equipped in her jacket and skirt ; quick determination in her eyes ; controlled quivering about the corners of her mouth . 
`` Why , what in the world '' -- said Mrs. Gibson -- `` Molly , what are you thinking about ? '' 
But Cynthia had understood it at a glance , and was arranging Molly 's hastily assumed dress , as she passed along . 
She heard Mrs. Gibson 's voice following her in remonstrance , but she did not stay for words . 
Molly had never felt that Osborne was really dead till she heard these words . 
They rode quick under the shadows of the hedgerow trees , but when they slackened speed , to go up a brow , or to give their horses breath , Molly heard these two little words again in her ears ; and said them over again to herself , in hopes of forcing the sharp truth into her unwilling sense . 
But when they came in sight of the square stillness of the house , shining in the moonlight -- the moon had risen by this time -- Molly caught at her breath , and for an instant she thought she never could go in , and face the presence in that dwelling . 
Molly dropped down from her seat before the man could dismount to help her . 
She gathered up her skirts and did not stay again to think of what was before her . 
She ran along the once familiar turns , and swiftly up the stairs , and through the doors , till she came to the last ; then she stopped and listened . 
She opened the door : -- the squire was sitting alone at the side of the bed , holding the dead man 's hand , and looking straight before him at vacancy . 
He did not stir or move , even so much as an eyelid , at Molly 's entrance . 
Molly came up to him with the softest steps , the most hushed breath that ever she could . 
She did not speak , for she did not know what to say . 
She felt that he had no more hope from earthly skill , so what was the use of speaking of her father and the delay in his coming ? 
After a moment 's pause , standing by the old man 's side , she slipped down to the floor , and sat at his feet . 
Possibly her presence might have some balm in it ; but uttering of words was as a vain thing . 
He must have been aware of her being there , but he took no apparent notice . 
There they sate , silent and still , he in his chair , she on the floor ; the dead man , beneath the sheet , for a third . 
She fancied that she must have disturbed the father in his contemplation of the quiet face , now more than half , but not fully , covered up out of sight . 
Time had never seemed so without measure , silence had never seemed so noiseless as it did to Molly , sitting there . 
In the acuteness of her senses she heard a step mounting a distant staircase , coming slowly , coming nearer . 
She knew it not to be her father 's , and that was all she cared about . 
The great gaunt figure sitting by her side quivered at the sound . 
Molly rose and went to the door : it was Robinson , the old butler , holding in his hand a covered basin of soup . 
He softly removed the cover , and Molly took the basin back with her to her place at the squire 's side . 
She did not speak , for she did not well know what to say , or how to present this homely want of nature before one so rapt in grief . 
But she put a spoonful to his lips , and touched them with the savoury food , as if he had been a sick child , and she the nurse ; and instinctively he took down the first spoonful of the soup . 
But in a minute he said , with a sort of cry , and almost overturning the basin Molly held , by his passionate gesture as he pointed to the bed , -- `` He will never eat again -- never . '' 
Then he threw himself across the corpse , and wept in such a terrible manner that Molly trembled lest he also should die -- should break his heart there and then . 
He took no more notice of her words , of her tears , of her presence , than he did of that of the moon , looking through the unclosed window , with passionless stare . 
Her father stood by them both before either of them was aware . 
`` Go downstairs , Molly , '' said he gravely ; but he stroked her head tenderly as she rose . 
Now she felt the reaction from all her self-control . 
She trembled with fear as she went along the moonlit passages . 
It seemed to her as if she should meet Osborne , and hear it all explained ; how he came to die , -- what he now felt and thought and wished her to do . 
She did get down to the dining-room , -- the last few steps with a rush of terror , -- senseless terror of what might be behind her ; and there she found supper laid out , and candles lit , and Robinson bustling about decanting some wine . 
She wanted to cry ; to get into some quiet place , and weep away her over-excitement ; but she could hardly do so there . 
She only felt very much tired , and to care for nothing in this world any more . 
But vividness of life came back when she found Robinson holding a glass to her lips as she sat in the great leather easy-chair , to which she had gone instinctively as to a place of rest . 
Molly did not say anything . 
She had not energy enough for resistance . 
She drank and she ate at the old servant 's bidding ; and then she asked him to leave her alone , and went back to her easy-chair and let herself cry , and so ease her heart . 
`` I wish to stay , '' said Molly . 
Papa '' -- she paused -- `` what did Osborne die of ? '' 
She asked the question in a low , awe-stricken voice . 
said Molly . 
said Molly , shocked . 
A fit of sobbing came upon her , which her father was afraid would end in hysterics . 
But suddenly she mastered herself , and looked up into his anxious face , and smiled to reassure him . 
`` Osborne was married , '' said she , fixing her eyes on her father . 
He said she was a Frenchwoman and a Roman Catholic ; and I think he said she was a servant , '' added Molly . 
Her father made a long whistle of dismay . 
`` And , '' continued Molly , `` he spoke of a child . 
Molly sate still without speaking , too tired to do more than wait . 
`` Now , Molly , '' he said , `` you and I must tell him the truth between us . 
Now that 's a lie , '' Mr. Gibson said , turning round to Molly as soon as Robinson had left the room . 
`` Here 's Molly , '' said Mr. Gibson , choking a little himself , and pushing her forwards . 
Molly wondered what was to come next . 
Suddenly her father spoke , -- `` Where 's Roger ? '' 
Both Molly and he saw it at the same time . 
He spoke more quietly than Molly had ever heard him do before . 
whispered Mr. Gibson to Molly . 
Molly began . 
Her voice sounded high and unnatural to herself , as if some one else was speaking , but she made her words clear . 
''' Now the squire was all attention ; for the first time his tearswollen eyes met the eyes of another , and he looked at Molly with searching anxiety , as he repeated , `` His wife ! 
Molly went on : `` Osborne was angry with Roger for speaking out before me , and they made me promise never to mention it to any one ; or to allude to it to either of them again . 
Still the squire hung on her lips , listening with open mouth and eyes . 
She looked at her father , as if questioning him as to the desirableness of telling the few further particulars that she knew . 
And Molly understood the half-formed words . 
`` He said his wife was a good woman , and that he loved her dearly ; but she was a French Roman Catholic , and a '' -- another glance at her father -- `` she had been a servant once . 
`` Osborne evidently had bound him down to secrecy , just as he bound me , '' said Molly ; `` Roger could not help himself . '' 
but , squire , '' said Mr. Gibson , trying to check the other 's rambling , `` to return to his wife -- '' `` And the child , '' whispered Molly to her father . 
said he , turning round to her suddenly , '' -- child ? 
Then exhausted he sate down again , and put out his hand to Molly . 
Molly shall return with me , and find the address that Osborne gave her , while you are busy -- '' `` She 'll come back again ? '' 
Molly shall return this evening , whenever it suits you to send for her . '' 
Little by little he led the squire to eat a morsel or so of food ; and so , strengthening him physically , and encouraging him mentally , Mr. Gibson hoped that he could begin his researches during Molly 's absence . 
There was something touching in the squire 's wistful looks after Molly as she moved about . 
A stranger might have imagined her to be his daughter instead of Mr. Gibson 's . 
I 'm thankful that you 've no lover at all , Molly , unless that abortive attempt of Mr. Coxe 's at an offer , long ago , can be called a lover . '' 
said Molly . 
But Molly was too tired to be amused , or even interested . 
She could not get over the sight of the straight body covered with a sheet , which yet let the outlines be seen -- all that remained of Osborne . 
Molly laughed a little , as she was expected to do . 
Mrs. Gibson gave Molly a warm welcome . 
For one thing , Cynthia was in disgrace ; for another , Molly came from the centre of news ; for a third , Mrs. Gibson was really fond of the girl , in her way , and sorry to see her pale heavy looks . 
`` He is beaten down with grief , '' replied Molly . 
Molly had no doubt that Osborne was really and truly married , nor had she any idea that her father had never breathed the facts of which she had told him on the previous night , to his wife or Cynthia . 
`` She is French , and a Roman Catholic , '' said Molly . 
Molly did not think it necessary to do more than answer questions ; indeed , she was vexed enough to have told anything of what her father evidently considered it desirable to keep secret . 
Just then Cynthia came wandering into the room with a careless , hopeless look in her face , which Molly noticed at once . 
She had not heard of Molly 's arrival , and had no idea that she was returned until she saw her sitting there . 
`` Molly , darling ! 
Why , he might have broken your heart , or Molly 's either . 
I hope you 'll take care and let the squire know Cynthia was quite ignorant of these new facts that have come out when she wrote those letters , Molly ? 
Oh , do let me bring it home unopened , '' said Molly . 
But Molly kept her pleading eyes fixed on Cynthia . 
said Molly to herself . 
`` It is best as it is , I see , '' she answered aloud . 
`` I do n't believe you , '' said Molly . 
She sate silently looking out of the window , her heart sorely stirred , she scarcely knew how or why . 
But she could not have spoken . 
Most likely she would have begun to cry if she had spoken . 
`` You are vexed with me , Molly , '' she began in a low voice . 
But Molly turned sharply round . 
I 'm very much tired , dear '' -- gently now she spoke -- `` and I hardly know what I say . 
`` I can not tell ; I have no right to say , '' replied Molly , scarcely understanding Cynthia 's motives , which , after all , were only impulses in this case . 
`` It was as much for your sake as any one 's , Molly , '' said Cynthia . 
So Molly went back in the carriage alone , wondering how she should find the squire ; wondering what discoveries he had made among Osborne 's papers , and at what conviction he would have arrived . 
Robinson opened the door for Molly almost before the carriage had fairly drawn up at the Hall , and told her that the squire had been very anxious for her return , and had more than once sent him to an upstairs window , from which a glimpse of the hill-road between Hollingford and Hamley could be caught , to know if the carriage was not yet in sight . 
Molly went into the drawing-room . 
The squire was standing in the middle of the floor awaiting her -- in fact , longing to go out and meet her , but restrained by a feeling of solemn etiquette , which prevented his moving about as usual in that house of mourning . 
`` It 's all true , '' he began ; `` she 's his wife , and he 's her husband -- was her husband -- that 's the word for it -- was ! 
Molly took a seat by him , and read the legal paper , the perusal of which was not needed to convince her of the fact of the marriage . 
She held it in her hand after she had finished reading it , waiting for the squire 's next coherent words ; for he kept talking to himself in broken sentences . 
He covered his face , and moved himself backward and forward till Molly could bear it no longer . 
`` There are some letters , '' said she : `` may I read any of them ? '' 
At another time she would not have asked ; but she was driven to it now by her impatience of the speechless grief of the old man . 
Molly 's knowledge of written French of the present day was not so great as her knowledge of the French of the Mémoires de Sully , and neither the spelling nor the writing of the letters was of the best ; but she managed to translate into good enough colloquial English some innocent sentences of love , and submission to Osborne 's will -- as if his judgment was infallible , -- and of faith in his purposes , -- little sentences in `` little language '' that went home to the squire 's heart . 
Perhaps if Molly had read French more easily she might not have translated them into such touching , homely , broken words . 
Here and there , there were expressions in English ; these the hungry-hearted squire had read while waiting for Molly 's return . 
Every time she stopped , he said , `` Go on . '' 
She got up to find some more of Aimée 's letters . 
In examining the papers , she came upon one in particular . 
He must be called Osborne , Molly . 
I 'll keep this , Molly . 
From the general tone of the letters , Molly doubted if the mother would consent , so easily as the squire seemed to expect , to be parted from her child . 
They were not very wise , perhaps -LRB- though of this Molly never thought -RRB- , but a heart full of love spoke tender words in every line . 
Still , it was not for Molly to talk of this doubt of hers just then ; but rather to dwell on the probable graces and charms of the little Roger Stephen Osborne Hamley . 
She let the squire exhaust himself in wondering as to the particulars of every event , helping him out in conjectures ; and both of them , from their imperfect knowledge of possibilities , made the most curious , fantastic , and improbable guesses at the truth . 
But when Mr. Gibson came , early on the following morning , Molly referred the question to him , which had suggested itself to her mind , though apparently not to the squire 's , what intimation of her loss should be sent to the widow , living solitary near Winchester , watching and waiting , if not for his coming who lay dead in his distant home , at least for his letters . 
One from her had already come , in her foreign hand-writing , to the post-office to which all her communications were usually sent , but of course they at the Hall knew nothing of this . 
Something must be done at last , '' said Molly . 
`` She will never part with it , '' said Molly . 
Till I see the woman I ca n't tell , '' said her father ; `` some women would . 
Now write that letter , Molly , to the poor little Frenchwoman out yonder . 
It will prepare her for it ; and we must think a bit how to spare her the shock , for Osborne 's sake . '' 
The writing this letter was rather difficult work for Molly , and she tore up two or three copies before she could manage it to her satisfaction ; and at last , in despair of ever doing it better , she sent it off without re-reading it . 
But when this second letter was sent off , Molly 's heart began to bleed for the poor creature , bereft of her husband , in a foreign land , and he at a distance from her , dead and buried without her ever having had the chance of printing his dear features on her memory by one last long lingering look . 
With her thoughts full of the unknown Aimée , Molly talked much about her that day to the squire . 
He would listen for ever to any conjecture , however wild , about the grandchild , but perpetually winced away from all discourse about `` the Frenchwoman , '' as he called her ; not unkindly , but to his mind she was simply the Frenchwoman -- chattering , dark-eyed , demonstrative , and possibly even rouged . 
He would treat her with respect as his son 's widow , and would try even not to think upon the female inveiglement in which he believed . 
He would make her an allowance to the extent of his duty : but he hoped and trusted he might never be called upon to see her . 
His solicitor , Gibson , anybody and everybody , should be called upon to form a phalanx of defence against that danger . 
Molly was sitting with the squire in the darkened drawing-room , reading out her translations of Aimée 's letters to her husband . 
The squire was never weary of hearing them ; the very sound of Molly 's voice soothed and comforted him , it was so sweet and low . 
And he pulled her up , much as a child does , if on a second reading of the same letter she substituted one word for another . 
Molly stopped reading ; she and the squire looked at each other in surprised dismay . 
Robinson had been aware that there was some mystery , long suspected by the servants , and come to light at last to the master , -- he had guessed that there was a young woman in the case ; but when she stood there before him , asking for her dead husband as if he were living , any presence of mind Robinson might have had forsook him ; he could not tell her the truth , -- he could only leave the door open , and say to her , `` Wait awhile , I 'll come back , '' and betake himself to the drawing-room where Molly was , he knew . 
He went up to her in a flutter and a hurry , and whispered something to her which turned her white with dismay . 
Roger -- '' They both thought he was going he was going to faint ; he had risen up and came close to Molly ; suspense would be worse than anything . 
`` Mrs. Osborne Hamley is here , '' said Molly . 
`` You will go , Molly , wo n't you ? 
Molly stood for a moment or two , irresolute . 
She , too , shrank from the interview . 
Robinson put in his word : `` She looks but a weakly thing , and has carried a big baby , choose how far , I did n't stop to ask . '' 
At this instant the door softly opened , and right into the midst of them came the little figure in grey , looking ready to fall with the weight of her child . 
`` You are Molly , '' said she , not seeing the squire at once . 
Molly did not answer , except that at such moments the eyes speak solemnly and comprehensively . 
All she said was , -- `` He is not -- oh , my husband -- my husband ! '' 
Her arms relaxed , her figure swayed , the child screamed and held out his arms for help . 
cried the little fellow , now striving and fighting to get back to her , where she lay ; he fought so lustily that the squire had to put him down , and he crawled to the poor inanimate body , behind which sat Molly , holding the head ; whilst Robinson rushed away for water , wine , and more womankind . 
said the squire , bending over her , and crying afresh over her suffering . 
`` She is but young , Molly , and she must ha ' loved him dearly . '' 
said Molly , quickly . 
She was untying the bonnet , and taking off the worn , but neatly mended gloves ; there was the soft luxuriant black hair , shading the pale , innocent face , -- the little notable-looking brown hands , with the wedding-ring for sole ornament . 
The child clustered his fingers round one of hers , and nestled up against her with his plaintive cry , getting more and more into a burst of wailing : `` Maman , maman ! '' 
At the growing acuteness of his imploring , her hand moved , her lips quivered , consciousness came partially back . 
She did not open her eyes , but great heavy tears stole out from beneath her eyelashes . 
Molly held her head against her own breast ; and they tried to give her wine , -- which she shrank from -- water , which she did not reject ; that was all . 
At last she tried to speak . 
`` Take me away , '' she said , `` into the dark . 
So Molly and the women lifted her up and carried her away , and laid her on the bed , in the best bed-chamber in the house , and darkened the already shaded light . 
She was like an unconscious corpse herself , in that she offered neither assistance nor resistance to all that they were doing . 
But just before Molly was leaving the room to take up her watch outside the door , she felt rather than heard that Aimée spoke to her . 
But when they brought her food herself , she only shrank away and turned her face to the wall without a word . 
When Molly came down she found the squire feeding the child , with more of peace upon his face than there had been for all these days . 
`` She is lying very still , but she will neither speak nor eat . 
I do n't even think she is crying , '' said Molly , volunteering this account , for the squire was , for the moment , too much absorbed in his grandson to ask many questions . 
Robinson put in his word : `` Dick Hayward , he 's Boots at the Hamley Arms , says the coach she come by started at five this morning from London , and the passengers said she 'd been crying a deal on the road , when she thought folks were not noticing ; and she never came in to meals with the rest , but stopped feeding her child . '' 
`` She 'll be tired out ; we must let her rest , '' said the squire . 
But Molly stole out , and sent off a lad to Hollingford with a note to her father . 
Her heart had warmed towards the poor stranger , and she felt uncertain as to what ought to be the course pursued in her case . 
She went up from time to time to look at the girl , scarce older than herself , who lay there with her eyes open , but as motionless as death . 
She softly covered her over , and let her feel the sympathetic presence from time to time ; and that was all she was allowed to do . 
The squire was curiously absorbed in the child , but Molly 's supreme tenderness was for the mother . 
Not but what she admired the sturdy , gallant , healthy little fellow , whose every limb , and square inch of clothing , showed the tender and thrifty care that had been taken of him . 
By-and-by the squire said in a whisper , -- `` She 's not like a Frenchwoman , is she , Molly ? '' 
`` She 's a gentle , pretty creature , '' said Molly . 
And Molly could not keep from crying softly at the thought . 
Molly wondered in her heart about this going away , on which the squire seemed fully resolved . 
She was sure that he intended to keep the child ; perhaps he had a legal right to do so ; -- but would the mother ever part from it ? 
He thought of her as he said to Molly , -- `` How pleased she would have been ! '' 
But Molly thought of the poor young widow upstairs . 
Aimée was her `` she '' at the first moment . 
Presently , -- but it seemed a long long time first , -- she heard the quick prompt sounds which told of her father 's arrival . 
Molly judged from the look in his eye that he had been fully informed of the present state of things at the Hall by some one . 
He spoke without exactly addressing any one , so that either Molly or the squire might answer as they liked . 
I should like you to see her , Gibson , if she 'll let you . 
We must do our duty by her , for my poor lad 's sake . 
Molly grew impatient on the mother 's behalf . 
`` Papa , I feel as if she was very ill ; perhaps worse than we think . 
Will you go and see her at once ? '' 
Mr. Gibson followed her upstairs , and the squire came too , thinking that he would do his duty now , and even feeling some self-satisfaction at conquering his desire to stay with the child . 
They went into the room where she had been taken . 
She lay quite still in the same position as at first . 
Her eyes were open and tearless , fixed on the wall . 
Mr. Gibson spoke to her , but she did not answer ; he lifted her hand to feel her pulse ; she never noticed . 
`` Bring me some wine at once , and order some beef-tea , '' he said to Molly . 
But when he tried to put the wine into her mouth as she lay there on her side , she made no effort to receive or swallow it , and it ran out upon the pillow . 
Mr. Gibson left the room abruptly ; Molly chafed the little inanimate hand ; the squire stood by in dumb dismay , touched in spite of himself by the death-in-life of one so young , and who must have been so much beloved . 
His eyes were on the figure upon the bed , which at that sound quivered all through ; and when her child was laid at her back , and began caressingly to scramble yet closer , Aimée turned round , and took him in her arms , and lulled him and soothed him with the soft wont of mother 's love . 
Before she lost this faint consciousness , which was habit or instinct rather than thought , Mr. Gibson spoke to her in French . 
It was the language sure to be most intelligible to her dulled brain ; and as it happened , -- only Mr. Gibson did not think of that -- it was the language in which she had been commanded , and had learnt to obey . 
He extorted from her short answers at first , then longer ones , and from time to time he plied her with little drops of wine , until some further nourishment should be at hand . 
Molly was struck by her father 's low tones of comfort and sympathy , although she could not follow what was said quickly enough to catch the meaning of what passed . 
By-and-by , however , when her father had done all that he could , and they were once more downstairs , he told them more about her journey than they yet knew . 
The hurry , the sense of acting in defiance of a prohibition , the over-mastering anxiety , the broken night , and fatigue of the journey , had ill prepared her for the shock at last , and Mr. Gibson was seriously alarmed for the consequences . 
She had wandered strangely in her replies to him ; he had perceived that she was wandering , and had made great efforts to recall her senses ; but Mr. Gibson foresaw that some bodily illness was coming on , and stopped late that night , arranging many things with Molly and the squire . 
One -- the only -- comfort arising from her state was , the probability that she would be entirely unconscious by the morrow -- the day of the funeral . 
Mr. Gibson gave some instructions to one of the maid-servants as to the watch she was to keep by Mrs. Osborne Hamley , and insisted on Molly 's going to bed . 
When she pleaded the apparent necessity of staying up , he said , -- `` Now , Molly , look how much less trouble the dear old squire would give if he would obey orders . 
He had given Molly 's thoughts a turn , which was what he wanted to do . 
Molly could not help remembering Mr. Henderson , and his offer , and all the consequent hints ; and wondering , and wishing -- what did she wish ? 
or had she been falling asleep ? 
Before she had quite ascertained this point she was asleep in reality . 
After this , long days passed over in a monotonous round of care ; for no one seemed to think of Molly 's leaving the Hall during the woeful illness that befell Mrs. Osborne Hamley . 
It was not that her father allowed her to take much active part in the nursing ; the squire gave him carte-blanche , and he engaged two efficient hospital nurses to watch over the unconscious Aimée ; but Molly was needed to receive the finer directions as to her treatment and diet . 
It was not that she was wanted for the care of the little boy ; the squire was too jealous of the child 's exclusive love for that , and one of the housemaids was employed in the actual physical charge of him ; but he needed some one to listen to his incontinence of language , both when his passionate regret for his dead son came uppermost , and also when he had discovered some extraordinary charm in that son 's child ; and again when he was oppressed with the uncertainty of Aimée 's long-continued illness . 
Molly was not so good or so bewitching a listener to ordinary conversation as Cynthia ; but where her heart was interested her sympathy was deep and unfailing . 
Molly once or twice asked her father if she might not speak to the squire , and represent the hardship of sending her away -- the improbability that she would consent to quit her boy , and so on ; but Mr. Gibson only replied , -- `` Wait quietly . 
It was well that Molly was such a favourite with the old servants ; for she had frequently to restrain and to control . 
To be sure , she had her father 's authority to back her ; and they were aware that where her own comfort , ease , or pleasure was concerned she never interfered , but submitted to their will . 
If the squire had known of the want of attendance to which she submitted with the most perfect meekness , as far as she herself was the only sufferer , he would have gone into a towering rage . 
But Molly hardly thought of it , so anxious was she to do all she could for others , and to remember the various charges which her father gave her in his daily visits . 
Perhaps he did not spare her enough ; she was willing and uncomplaining ; but , one day , after Mrs. Osborne Hamley had `` taken the turn , '' as the nurses called it , when she was lying weak as a new-born baby , but with her faculties all restored , and her fever gone , -- when spring buds were blooming out , and spring birds sang merrily , -- Molly answered to her father 's sudden questioning , that she felt unaccountably weary ; that her head ached heavily , and that she was aware of a sluggishness of thought which it required a painful effort to overcome . 
`` Well , Gibson , and how goes the patient ? 
I wish we could get her out of doors , such a fine day as it is . 
It would make her strong as soon as anything . 
Though , perhaps , she 'll not thrive in English air as if she 'd been born here ; and she 'll not be quite right till she gets back to her native place , wherever that is . '' 
I begin to think we shall get her quite round here ; and I do n't know that she could be in a better place . 
But it 's not about her . 
May I order the carriage for my Molly ? '' 
`` I say , Gibson , '' he got out at last , `` your Molly is liker a child of mine than a stranger ; and I reckon we 've all on us been coming too hard upon her . 
He felt as if he should not know what to do without Molly ; he had never known her value , he thought , till now . 
He stood by while Mr. Gibson helped the faintly-smiling , tearful Molly into the carriage . 
Then the squire mounted on the step and kissed her hand ; but when he tried to thank her and bless her , he broke down ; and as soon as he was once more safely on the ground , Mr. Gibson cried out to the coachman to drive on . 
And so Molly left Hamley Hall . 
From time to time her father rode up to the window , and made some little cheerful and apparently careless remark . 
He went on to prepare her home for Molly : when she arrived Mrs. Gibson was ready to greet her . 
Mr. Gibson had given one or two of his bright , imperative orders , and Mrs. Gibson was feeling rather lonely `` without either of her two dear girls at home , '' as she phrased it , to herself as well as to others . 
`` Why , my sweet Molly , this is an unexpected pleasure . 
Only this morning I said to papa , ` When do you think we shall see our Molly back ? ' 
Then he came away , leading his wife , who turned round at the door to kiss her hand to Molly , and make a little face of unwillingness to be dragged away . 
The illness which he apprehended came upon Molly ; not violently or acutely , so that there was any immediate danger to be dreaded ; but making a long pull upon her strength , which seemed to lessen day by day , until at last her father feared that she might become a permanent invalid . 
`` Molly was feeling the spring weather ; '' or `` Molly had been a good deal overdone with her stay at the Hall , and was resting ; '' such little sentences told nothing of Molly 's real state . 
But then , as Mrs. Gibson said to herself , it would be a pity to disturb Cynthia 's pleasure by telling her much about Molly ; indeed , there was not much to tell , one day was so like another . 
But it so happened that Lady Harriet , who came whenever she could to sit awhile with Molly , at first against Mrs. Gibson 's will , and afterwards with her full consent , -- for reasons of her own , Lady Harriet wrote a letter to Cynthia , to which she was urged by Mrs. Gibson . 
It fell out in this manner : -- One day , when Lady Harriet was sitting in the drawing-room for a few minutes , after she had been with Molly , she said , -- `` Really , Clare , I spend so much time in your house that I 'm going to establish a work-basket here . 
All the first part of the letter was taken up with apology and commissions ; but then , never doubting but that Cynthia was aware of Molly 's state , she went on to say -- `` I saw Molly this morning . 
Twice I have been forbidden admittance , as she was too ill to see any one out of her own family . 
I wish we could begin to perceive a change for the better ; but she looks more fading every time , and I fear Mr. Gibson considers it a very anxious case . '' 
Mrs. Gibson was dozing , but believing herself to be reading ; she had been with Molly the greater part of the morning , and now after her lunch , and the invalid 's pretence of early dinner , she considered herself entitled to some repose . 
She started up as Cynthia came in : `` Cynthia ! 
I never knew , -- you never told me how ill Molly was . '' 
Molly 's illness is only nervous , Mr. Gibson says . 
A nervous fever ; but you must remember nerves are mere fancy , and she 's getting better . 
Who told you about Molly ? '' 
Perhaps , after all , it is a very good thing you have come , my dear ; and now you shall come down into the dining-room and have some lunch , and tell me all the Hyde Park Street news -- into my room , -- do n't go into yours yet -- Molly is so sensitive to noise ! '' 
`` And your aunt , how is her cold ? 
`` On the contrary , I am to go back there as soon as ever I can be easy to leave Molly . '' 
``` Easy to leave Molly . ' 
Now that really is nonsense , and rather uncomplimentary to me , I must say : nursing her as I have been doing , daily , and almost nightly ; for I have been wakened times out of number by Mr. Gibson getting up , and going to see if she had had her medicine properly . '' 
`` I 'm afraid she has been very ill ? '' 
`` Yes , she has , in one way ; but not in another . 
There was no immediate danger , but she lay much in the same state from day to day . '' 
`` Do you think I might go and see her now ? '' 
`` I 'll go and prepare her . 
You 'll find her a good deal better than she has been . 
I never knew Molly had been so ill , or I would have come directly . '' 
I tell her it 's very foolish , for Molly is a great deal better now . '' 
Molly 's delight at seeing her showed itself first in a few happy tears ; and then in soft caresses and inarticulate sounds of love . 
She had returned just at the right time , when Molly wanted the gentle fillip of the society of a fresh and yet a familiar person . 
Cynthia 's tact made her talkative or silent , gay or grave , as the varying humour of Molly required . 
She listened , too , with the semblance , if not the reality , of unwearied interest , to Molly 's continual recurrence to all the time of distress and sorrow at Hamley Hall , and to the scenes which had then so deeply impressed themselves upon her susceptible nature . 
So she never interrupted Molly , as Mrs. Gibson had so frequently done , with -- `` You told me all that before , my dear . 
So Molly 's health and spirits improved rapidly after Cynthia 's return : and although she was likely to retain many of her invalid habits during the summer , she was able to take drives , and enjoy the fine weather ; it was only her as yet tender spirits that required a little management . 
Miss Browning and Miss Phoebe considered it quite a privilege that they were allowed to see her a fortnight or three weeks before any one else ; Mrs. Goodenough , spectacles on nose , stirred dainty messes in a silver saucepan for Molly 's benefit ; the Towers sent books , and forced fruit , and new caricatures , and strange and delicate poultry ; humble patients of `` the doctor , '' as Mr. Gibson was usually termed , left the earliest cauliflowers they could grow in their cottage gardens , with `` their duty for Miss. '' The last of all , though strongest in regard , most piteously eager in interest , came Squire Hamley himself . 
When she was at the worst , he rode over every day to hear the smallest detail , facing even Mrs. Gibson -LRB- his abomination -RRB- if her husband was not at home , to ask and hear , and ask and hear , till the tears were unconsciously stealing down his cheeks . 
And now it was late June ; and to Molly 's and her father 's extreme urgency in pushing , and Mr. and Mrs. Kirkpatrick 's affectionate persistency in pulling , Cynthia had yielded , and had gone back to finish her interrupted visit in London , but not before the bruit of her previous sudden return to nurse Molly had told strongly in her favour in the fluctuating opinion of the little town . 
Her affair with Mr. Preston was thrust into the shade ; while every one was speaking of her warm heart . 
Under the gleam of Molly 's recovery everything assumed a rosy hue , as indeed became the time when actual roses were fully in bloom . 
One morning Mrs. Gibson brought Molly a great basket of flowers , that had been sent from the Hall . 
Molly still breakfasted in bed , but she had just come down , and was now well enough to arrange the flowers for the drawing-room , and as she did so with these blossoms , she made some comments on each . 
said Molly , turning first red , then very white . 
But Molly leaned back against her chair , too faint to do more at the flowers for some time . 
She had been startled by the suddenness of the news . 
But Molly kept her place in the drawing-room all the time , not ever going to take her customary siesta , so anxious was she to hear everything about Roger 's return , which as yet appeared to her almost incredible . 
But it was quite natural in reality ; the long monotony of her illness had made her lose all count of time . 
This much information , but in a more condensed form , Mr. Gibson gave to Molly , in a very few minutes . 
She sat up on her sofa , looking very pretty with the flush on her cheeks , and the brightness in her eyes . 
said she , when her father stopped speaking . 
asked Molly , a little disturbed by this account . 
Molly fidgeted ; she wanted to go on with her questions and keep her father to definite and matter-of-fact answers , and she knew that when his wife chimed into a conversation , Mr. Gibson was very apt to find out that he must go about some necessary piece of business . 
It was an inquiry which she did not make in general before Mrs. Gibson , for Molly and her father had tacitly agreed to keep silence on what they knew or had observed , respecting the three who formed the present family at the Hall . 
`` You were not in the room , my dear , when I was telling Molly of the reasons for Roger 's return ; it was to put his brother 's child at once into his rightful and legal place . 
Both Molly and Mrs. Gibson would have liked to have heard something more about this conversation ; but Mr. Gibson did not choose to go on with the subject . 
Molly went on with her questions on other subjects . 
`` I should think he would come and call upon us soon , '' said Mrs. Gibson to Molly , `` and then we shall see how much we can manage to hear . '' 
said Molly , more doubtfully . 
Molly , too , had been damped by an expression or two in her father 's speech . 
That he felt all the awkwardness of his position towards Mrs. Gibson -- that he was in reality suffering pain all the time -- was but too evident to Molly ; but of course Mrs. Gibson saw nothing of this in her gratification at the proper respect paid to her by one whose name was in the newspapers that chronicled his return , and about whom already Lord Cumnor and the Towers family had been making inquiry . 
Molly was sitting in her pretty white invalid 's dress , half reading , half dreaming , for the June air was so clear and ambient , the garden so full of bloom , the trees so full of leaf , that reading by the open window was only a pretence at such a time ; besides which , Mrs. Gibson continually interrupted her with remarks about the pattern of her worsted work . 
Molly started up ; and then stood shyly and quietly in her place while a bronzed , bearded , grave man came into the room , in whom she at first had to seek for the merry boyish face she knew by heart only two years ago . 
But his voice was the same ; that was the first point of the old friend Molly caught , when he addressed her in a tone far softer than he used in speaking conventional politenesses to her stepmother . 
letting his eyes rest upon her face with affectionate examination . 
Molly felt herself colour all over with the consciousness of his regard . 
To do something to put an end to it , she looked up , and shewed him her beautiful soft grey eyes , which he never remembered to have noticed before . 
She smiled at him as she blushed still deeper , and said , -- `` Oh ! 
`` I have heard how deeply we -- I am indebted to you -- my father can hardly praise you -- '' `` Please do n't , '' said Molly , the tears coming into her eyes in spite of herself . 
He seemed to understand her at once ; her went on as if speaking to Mrs. Gibson : `` Indeed , my little sister-in-law is never weary of talking about Monsieur le Docteur , as she calls your husband ! '' 
But Molly has been such a care and anxiety to me -- for , you know , I look upon her quite as my own child -- that I really have not gone anywhere , excepting to the Towers , perhaps I should say , which is just like another home to me . 
When he was at the door he looked back , having , as he thought , a word more to say ; but he quite forgot what it was , for he surprised Molly 's intent gaze , and sudden confusion at discovery , and went away as soon as he could . 
All the rest of the day she alluded to Cynthia as a disappointing and ungrateful daughter ; Molly could not make out why , and resented it for Cynthia , until the latter said , bitterly , `` Never mind , Molly . 
Cynthia , I will speak , '' said Molly , all crimson with indignation , and pushing away Cynthia 's restraining hand . 
`` Unless we love some one very dearly indeed , '' said Molly , in a low , firm tone . 
And she left the room to put into fulfilment an idea which had just struck her : to write a confidential letter to Mrs. Kirkpatrick , giving her her version of Cynthia 's `` unfortunate entanglement , '' and `` delicate sense of honour , '' and hints of her entire indifference to all the masculine portion of the world , Mr. Henderson being dexterously excluded from the category . 
said Molly , throwing herself back in a chair , with a sigh of relief , as Mrs. Gibson left the room ; `` how cross I do get since I 've been ill ! 
`` I 'm sure he does n't , Molly . 
But I 've been an encumbrance to her all my life . 
I 'm getting very much into despair about everything , Molly . 
`` I ca n't tell , '' said Molly . 
`` I suppose you know , '' she continued , but hesitating a little before she spoke , `` that he wishes to see you ? '' 
`` His , '' said Molly . 
asked she , with a little wistful anxiety betraying itself in her face . 
Molly was not as yet strong enough to get up so early . 
Cynthia went upstairs to Molly ; she was inclined to tell her about Mr. Henderson , but she found it impossible to introduce the subject naturally , so she left it to time to reveal the future as gradually as it might . 
Molly was tired with a bad night ; and her father , in his flying visit to his darling before going out , had advised her to stay upstairs for the greater part of the morning , and to keep quiet in her own room till after her early dinner , so Time had not a fair chance of telling her what he had in store in his budget . 
Mrs. Gibson sent an apology to Molly for not paying her her usual morning visit , and told Cynthia to give Mr. Henderson 's probable coming as a reason for her occupation downstairs . 
She kissed Molly , and sate silently by her , holding her hand ; till at length she jumped up , and said , `` You shall be left alone now , little one . 
It was either a relief or a disappointment , he was not sure which , to find only Molly in the room : -- Molly , half lying on the couch in the bow-window which commanded the garden ; draped in soft white drapery , very white herself , and a laced half-handkerchief tied over her head to save her from any ill effects of the air that blew in through the open window . 
`` I 'm afraid you are not so well , '' he said to Molly , who sat up to receive him , and who suddenly began to tremble with emotion . 
`` I 'm a little tired , that 's all , '' said she ; and then she was quite silent , hoping that he might go , and yet somehow wishing him to stay . 
But he took a chair and placed it near her , opposite to the window . 
The pink flush came out on Molly 's cheeks ; once or twice she was on the point of speaking , but again she thought better of it ; and the pauses between their faint disjointed remarks became longer and longer . 
Suddenly , in one of these pauses , the merry murmur of distant happy voices in the garden came nearer and nearer ; Molly looked more and more uneasy and flushed , and in spite of herself kept watching Roger 's face . 
He could see over her into the garden . 
Now Roger spoke to Molly -- spoke hurriedly , spoke hoarsely . 
`` Molly , tell me ! 
And Roger ran downstairs at full speed , and Molly heard the passionate clang of the outer door . 
said Molly , very faint . 
Why , Molly , what 's the matter ? '' 
for now Molly had fainted away utterly . 
Cynthia flew to the bell , summoned Maria , water , salts , wine , anything ; and as soon as Molly , gasping and miserable , became conscious again , she wrote a little pencil-note to Mr. Henderson , bidding him return to the George , whence he had come in the morning , and saying that if he obeyed her at once , he might be allowed to call again in the evening , otherwise she would not see him till the next day . 
This she sent down by Maria , and the unlucky man never believed but that it was Miss Gibson 's sudden indisposition in the first instance that had deprived him of his charmer 's company . 
asked Cynthia , as she sate with Molly in the stillness of Mrs. Gibson 's dressing-room . 
asked Molly earnestly . 
But I do n't know if I shall give way , -- you hardly saw him , Molly , -- but he 's coming again tonight , and mind , I 'll never forgive you if you do n't think him very charming . 
I believe I cared for him when he offered all those months ago , but I tried to think I did n't ; only sometimes I really was so unhappy , I thought I must put an iron band round my heart to keep it from breaking , like the Faithful John of the German story , -- do you remember , Molly ? 
Molly had been very curious to see him ; and when she saw him she was not sure whether she liked him or not . 
But he wanted something in Molly 's eyes -- at any rate , in this first interview , and in her heart of hearts she thought him rather commonplace . 
But of course she said nothing of this to Cynthia , who was evidently as happy as she could be . 
Mr. Henderson behaved exactly as he ought to have done to everybody : respectful to Mr. Gibson , deferential to Mrs. Gibson , friendly to Molly , devoted to Cynthia . 
The next time Mr. Gibson found Molly alone , he began , -- `` Well ! 
`` I think him perfection , '' said Mr. Gibson , to Molly 's surprise ; but in an instant afterwards she saw that he had been speaking ironically . 
Indeed , with the exception of myself , I do n't know one reasonable father ; eh , Molly ? '' 
So Mr. and Mrs. Kirkpatrick wrote back an equally agreeable letter , praising Mr. Henderson , admiring Cynthia , and generally congratulatory ; insisting into the bargain that the marriage should take place from their house in Hyde Park Street , and that Mr. and Mrs. Gibson and Molly should all come up and pay them a visit . 
In her exultation at the general success of everything , and desire for sympathy , Mrs. Gibson read parts of this letter to Molly ; the postscript among the rest . 
It made a deeper impression on Molly than even the proposed kindness of the visit to London . 
So Molly was ordered and enjoined and entreated to become strong as soon as possible , in order that her health might not prevent her attending the marriage ; Mr. Gibson himself , though he thought it his duty to damp the excellent anticipations of his wife and her daughter , being not at all averse to the prospect of going to London , and seeing half-a-dozen old friends , and many scientific exhibitions , independently of the very fair amount of liking which he had for his host , Mr. Kirkpatrick himself . 
She was the first to speak ; and Lady Harriet , who had begun a few words to Molly , dropped into silence . 
-- putting on her glasses , and looking at Cynthia and Molly , who were dressed pretty much alike . 
`` I did not think it would be amiss to give you a little advice , my dear , '' said she , when Cynthia had been properly pointed out to her as bride elect . 
Although there is a general prejudice against attorneys , I have known two or three who are very respectable men ; and I am sure Mr. Henderson is one , or your good mother and our old friend Gibson would not have sanctioned the engagement . '' 
Molly was sitting in the drawing-room pale and trembling , and keeping herself quiet only by a strong effort . 
She was the only person there when Lady Harriet entered : the room was all in disorder , strewed with presents and paper , and pasteboard boxes , and half-displayed articles of finery . 
Ah , yes , I see this poor unfortunate child has been telling you of her ill-luck ; just when everything was going on so beautifully ; I 'm sure it was that open window at your back , Molly , -- you know you would persist that it could do you no harm , and now you see the mischief ! 
`` I 'm sure Molly is as sorry as any one , '' said Lady Harriet . 
I do n't think she is , '' said Mrs. Gibson , with happy disregard of the chronology of events , `` or she would not have sate with her back to an open window the day before yesterday , when I told her not . 
I wish I could persuade her to do the same '' -LRB- turning and addressing Lady Harriet -RRB- . 
`` It is not that , '' began Molly ; but Lady Harriet made her a little sign to be silent while she herself spoke . 
Mr. Gibson shall stay as long as ever he can in London ; and Molly shall be well cared for , and have some change of air and scene too , which is really what she needs as much as anything , in my poor opinion . 
I ca n't spirit her to the wedding and give her a sight of London ; but I can carry her off to the Towers , and invite her myself ; and send daily bulletins up to London , so that Mr. Gibson may feel quite at ease , and stay with you as long as you like . 
`` Oh , I could not go , '' said Molly ; `` I should only be a trouble to everybody . '' 
Molly 's heart sank within her at the prospect . 
Excepting on the one evening of her father 's wedding-day , she had never even seen the outside of the Towers since that unlucky day in her childhood when she had fallen asleep on Clare 's bed . 
But when she heard her mother quickly recapitulating all the details of the plan for Molly , Cynthia 's eyes did sparkle with gladness ; and almost to Lady Harriet 's surprise , she thanked her as if she had conferred a personal favour upon her . 
Lady Harriet saw , too , that in a very quiet way , she had taken Molly 's hand , and was holding it all the time , as if loth to think of their approaching separation -- somehow , she and Lady Harriet were brought nearer together by this little action than they had ever been before . 
Molly had hoped that her father might have raised some obstacles to the project ; in this she was disappointed . 
But she was satisfied when she perceived how he seemed to feel that , by placing her under the care of Lady Harriet and Parkes , he should be relieved from anxiety . 
So Molly was driven off in state the next day , leaving her own home all in confusion with the assemblage of boxes and trunks in the hall , and all the other symptoms of the approaching departure of the family for London and the wedding . 
All the morning Cynthia had been with her in her room , attending to the arrangement of Molly 's clothes , instructing her what to wear with what , and rejoicing over the pretty smartnesses , which , having been prepared for her as bridesmaid , were now to serve as adornments for her visit to the Towers . 
Both Molly and Cynthia spoke about dress as if it was the very object of their lives ; for each dreaded the introduction of more serious subjects ; Cynthia more for Molly than herself . 
Only when the carriage was announced , and Molly was preparing to go downstairs , Cynthia said , -- `` Im not going to thank you , Molly , or to tell you how I love you . '' 
`` Do n't , '' said Molly , `` I ca n't bear it . '' 
Mr. Gibson was there in the hall to hand Molly in . 
He had ridden hard ; and was now giving her two or three last injunctions as to her health . 
`` I declare I do n't know which of her three lovers she may n't summon at the very last moment to act the part of bridegroom . 
I 'm determined to be surprised at nothing ; and will give her away with a good grace to whoever comes . '' 
They drove away , and until they were out of sight of the house , Molly had enough to do to keep returning the kisses of the hand wafted to her by her stepmother out of the drawing-room window , while at the same time her eyes were fixed on a white handkerchief fluttering out of the attic from which she herself had watched Roger 's departure nearly two years before . 
When Molly arrived at the Towers she was convoyed into Lady Cumnor 's presence by Lady Harriet . 
It was a mark of respect to the lady of the house , which the latter knew that her mother would expect ; but she was anxious to get it over , and take Molly up into the room which she had been so busy arranging for her . 
`` You are Lady Harriet 's visitor , my dear , '' said she , `` and I hope she will take good care of you . 
It was as near an approach to a joke as Lady Cumnor ever perpetrated , and from it Lady Harriet knew that her mother was pleased by Molly 's manners and appearance . 
Molly was only too glad to allow Lady Harriet to decide everything for her . 
High up , it commanded a wide and pleasant view over the park , and from it could be seen the spire of Hollingford Church , which gave Molly a pleasant idea of neighbourhood to home . 
She was left alone , lying on the sofa -- books near her , wood crackling and blazing , wafts of wind bringing the beating rain against the window , and so enhancing the sense of indoor comfort by the outdoor contrast . 
Parkes was unpacking for her . 
Lady Harriet had introduced Parkes to Molly by saying , `` Now , Molly , this is Mrs. Parkes , the only person I am ever afraid of . 
Parkes had begun to reign by putting Molly on the sofa , and saying , `` If you will give me your keys , Miss , I will unpack your things , and let you know when it is time for me to arrange your hair , preparatory to luncheon . '' 
When Molly went down to lunch she found `` cousin Charles , '' with his aunt , Lady Cumnor . 
He was a certain Sir Charles Morton , the son of Lady Cumnor 's only sister : a plain , sandy-haired man of thirty-five or so ; immensely rich , very sensible , awkward , and reserved . 
She had given him his cue about Molly . 
So Sir Charles began this day at luncheon by taking Molly under his quiet protection . 
He did not say much to her ; but what he did say was thoroughly friendly and sympathetic ; and Molly began , as he and Lady Harriet intended that she should , to have a kind of pleasant reliance upon him . 
Then in the evening while the rest of the family were at dinner -- after Molly 's tea and hour of quiet repose , Parkes came and dressed her in some of the new clothes prepared for the Kirkpatrick visit , and did her hair in some new and pretty way , so that when Molly looked at herself in the cheval-glass , she scarcely knew the elegant reflection to be that of herself . 
She was fetched down by Lady Harriet into the great long formidable drawing-room , which as an interminable place of pacing , had haunted her dreams ever since her childhood . 
When Molly went to bed she was constrained to admit that staying at the Towers as a visitor was rather pleasant than otherwise ; and she tried to reconcile old impressions with new ones , until she fell asleep . 
Lady Harriet took Molly a drive in her little pony-carriage ; and for the first time for many weeks Molly began to feel the delightful spring of returning health ; the dance of youthful spirits in the fresh air cleared by the previous day 's rain . 
So Molly made her appearance at dinner that day ; and got to know , by sight at least , some of the most distinguished of the visitors at the Towers . 
And there were several letters from the home-people awaiting Molly when she came downstairs to the late breakfast . 
For , every day , every hour , she was gaining strength and health , and she was unwilling to continue her invalid habits any longer than was necessary . 
She looked so much better that Sir Charles noticed it to Lady Harriet ; and several of the visitors spoke of her this morning as a very pretty , lady-like , and graceful girl . 
This was Thursday ; on Friday , as Lady Harriet had told her , some visitors from the more immediate neighbourhood were expected to stay over the Sunday ; but she had not mentioned their names , and when Molly went down into the drawing-room before dinner , she was almost startled by perceiving Roger Hamley in the centre of a group of gentlemen , who were all talking together eagerly , and , as it seemed to her , making him the object of their attention . 
He made a hitch in his conversation , lost the precise meaning of a question addressed to him ; answered it rather hastily , and made his way to where Molly was sitting , a little behind Lady Harriet . 
He could not quite understand the smile of mutual intelligence that passed between the two , each being aware of Lady Harriet 's plan of sheltering Molly from the necessity of talking , and acting in conformity with her wishes as much as with their own . 
Again in the evening he sought her out , but found her again pre-occupied with one of the young men staying in the house , who had had the advantage of a two days of mutual interest , and acquaintance with the daily events , and jokes and anxieties of the family circle . 
Molly could not help wishing to break off all this trivial talk and to make room for Roger : she had so much to ask him about everything at the Hall ; he was , and had been such a stranger to them all for these last two months , and more . 
Mr. Ernest Watson , the young man referred to above , kept his place by Molly , as the prettiest girl in the room , and almost dazed her by his never-ceasing flow of clever small talk . 
She looked so tired and pale at last that the ever-watchful Lady Harriet sent Sir Charles to the rescue , and after a few words with Lady Harriet , Roger saw Molly quietly leave the room ; and a sentence or two which he heard Lady Harriet address to her cousin made him know that it was for the night . 
`` Really , Charles , considering that she is in your charge , I think you might have saved her from the chatter and patter of Mr. Watson ; I can only stand it when I am in the strongest health . '' 
Why was Molly in Sir Charles 's charge ? 
On Saturday they were more fortunate : they had a long tête-à-tête in the most public place in the house -- on a sofa in the hall were Molly was resting at Lady Harriet 's command before going upstairs after a walk . 
Roger was passing through , and saw her , and came to her . 
Standing before her , and making pretence of playing with the gold-fish in a great marble basin close at hand , -- `` I was very unlucky , '' said he . 
Now this was not at all the manner in which Roger had predetermined that he would speak of Sir Charles to Molly ; but the words came out in spite of himself . 
Molly stood up . 
`` I must go upstairs , '' she said ; `` I only sate down here for a minute or two because Lady Harriet bade me . '' 
said Molly in surprise . 
Molly took all this quite gravely , and did not at first notice the smile on his face . 
said she . 
Lady Harriet called the very day when it was settled that I was not to go to -- '' Cynthia 's wedding , she was going to add , but she suddenly stopped short , and , blushing deeply , changed the expression , `` go to London , and she planned it all in a minute , and convinced mamma and papa , and had her own way . 
To go in the cool manner suggested from one house to another , after the manner of a royal progress , was not at all according to Molly 's primitive home-keeping notions . 
She made answer , -- `` I should like it very much , some time . 
They will want me more than ever now -- '' Again she felt herself touching on a sore subject , and stopped short . 
Roger became annoyed at her so constantly conjecturing what he must be feeling on the subject of Cynthia 's marriage . 
With sympathetic perception she had discerned that the idea must give him pain ; and perhaps she also knew that he would dislike to show the pain ; but she had not the presence of mind or ready wit to give a skilful turn to the conversation . 
Until that was done , his footing with Molly would always be insecure ; as it always is between two friends , who mutually avoid a subject to which their thoughts perpetually recur . 
His tone of voice was changed in speaking of her , but her name had been named between them , and that was the great thing to accomplish . 
Besides , Molly , '' it was the old familiar Roger of former days who spoke now , `` I think you could help us at home . 
Aimée is shy and awkward with my father , and he has never taken quite kindly to her , -- yet I know they would like and value each other , if some one could but bring them together , -- and it would be such a comfort to me if this could take place before I have to leave . '' 
They separated then , and Molly went upstairs very happy ; very full and warm at her heart ; it was so pleasant to have Roger talking to her in this way , like a friend ; she had once thought that she could never look upon the great brown-bearded celebrity in the former light of almost brotherly intimacy , but now it was all coming right . 
Molly went a quiet decorous drive as fourth with two dowagers and one spinster ; but it was very pleasant to think that she should see him again at dinner , and again to-morrow . 
There were many details to be given in order to make Molly quite understand the difficulty of the situations on both sides ; and the young man and the girl became absorbed in what they were talking about , and wandered away into the shade of the long avenue . 
Molly Gibson is capable of appreciating him . '' 
`` She is a very pretty , good little country-girl . 
I do n't mean to say anything against her , but -- '' `` Remember the Charity Ball ; you called her ` unusually intelligent ' after you had danced with her there . 
Lord Hollingford remembered his sister 's words as he heard Roger say to Molly as he was leaving the Towers on the following day , -- `` Then I may tell my father that you will come and pay him a visit next week ? 
He had been on the point of saying will give us , but he had an instinct which told him it was as well to consider Molly 's promised visit as exclusively made to his father . 
The next day Molly went home ; she was astonished at herself for being so sorry to leave the Towers ; and found it difficult , if not impossible , to reconcile the long-fixed idea of the house as a place wherein to suffer all a child 's tortures of dismay and forlornness with her new and fresh conception . 
She had gained health , she had had pleasure , the faint fragrance of a new and unacknowledged hope had stolen into her life . 
No wonder that Mr. Gibson was struck with the improvement in her looks , and Mrs. Gibson impressed with her increased grace . 
`` Ah , Molly , '' said she , `` it 's really wonderful to see what a little good society will do for a girl . 
Dear Cynthia , when I think of her , I do assure you , Molly , I make it my nightly prayer that I may be able to find you just such another husband . 
Molly ran over a list of names . 
`` The Hamleys are a far older family than the Cumnors , '' said Molly , flushing up . 
`` Now , Molly , I ca n't have you democratic . 
It was about six weeks since Cynthia 's engagement had become publicly known , and that might have had something to do with the squire 's desertion , Molly thought . 
But she said , `` The squire has sent me an invitation to go and stay there next week if you have no objection , mamma . 
Mrs. Goodenough had come the very day on which they had returned from Miss Hornblower 's , to tell them the astounding fact of Molly Gibson having gone on a visit to the Towers ; not to come back at night , but to sleep there , to be there for two or three days , just as if she was a young lady of quality . 
So Miss Brownings came to hear all the details of the wedding from Mrs. Gibson , and the history of Molly 's visit at the Towers as well . 
But Mrs. Gibson did not like this divided interest , and some of her old jealousy of Molly 's intimacy at the Towers had returned . 
`` Now , Molly , '' said Miss Browning , `` let us hear how you behaved among the great folks . 
`` Molly is , I think , quite aware , '' put in Mrs. Gibson , in her most soft and languid tone , `` that she owes her privilege of visiting at such a house to Lady Cumnor 's kind desire to set my mind quite at liberty at the time of Cynthia 's marriage . 
As soon as ever I had returned home , Molly came back ; indeed , I should not have thought it right to let her intrude upon their kindness beyond what was absolutely necessary . '' 
Molly felt extremely uncomfortable at all this , although perfectly aware of the entire inaccuracy of the statement . 
`` Well , but Molly ! '' 
So Molly began an account of their sayings and doings , which she could have made far more interesting to Miss Browning and Miss Phoebe if she had not been conscious of her stepmother 's critical listening . 
`` Molly has fallen into rambling ways with this visit of hers , of which she makes so much , as if nobody had ever been in a great house but herself . 
She is going to Hamley Hall next week , -- getting quite dissipated in fact . '' 
`` Thank you , Mrs. Goodenough , '' said Molly , half angry , half laughing . 
`` Molly is becoming so popular , I hardly know how we shall keep her at home , '' said Mrs. Gibson . 
Wedding-cake and wine were brought in , and it was Molly 's duty to serve them out . 
And that , too , was destined to be confirmed ; for directly after Mrs. Goodenough took her leave , Mrs. Gibson desired Molly to carry away the tray to a table close to an open corner window , where the things might be placed in readiness for any future callers ; and underneath this open window went the path from the house-door to the road . 
Molly heard Mrs. Goodenough saying to her granddaughter , -- `` That Mrs. Gibson is a deep ` un . 
There 's Mr. Roger Hamley as like as not to have the Hall estate , and she sends Molly a-visiting -- '' and then she passed out of hearing . 
Molly could have burst out crying , with a full sudden conviction of what Mrs. Goodenough had been alluding to ; her sense of the impropriety of Molly 's going to visit at the Hall when Roger was at home . 
Mr. Gibson took it all as a matter of course that Molly should go to the Hall as simply now , as she had done before . 
Molly felt as if she could never speak to any one of the idea to which Mrs. Goodenough 's words had given rise ; as if she could never be the first to suggest the notion of impropriety , which pre-supposed what she blushed to think of . 
But reasoning was of no use after Mrs. Goodenough 's words had put fancies into Molly 's head . 
The more she bade these fancies begone the more they answered her -LRB- as Daniel O'Rourke did the man in the moon , when he bade Dan get off his seat on the sickle , and go into empty space -RRB- : -- `` The more ye ask us the more we wo n't stir . '' 
All that Molly could do was to resolve on a single eye to the dear old squire , and his mental and bodily comforts ; to try and heal up any breaches which might have occurred between him and Aimée ; and to ignore Roger as much as possible . 
It would be very hard to avoid him as much as was consistent with common politeness ; but it would be right to do it ; and when she was with him she must be as natural as possible , or he might observe some difference ; but what was natural ? 
How much ought she avoid being with him ? 
Would he even notice if she was more chary of her company , more calculating of her words ? 
She made laws for herself ; she resolved to devote herself to the squire and to Aimée , and to forget Mrs. Goodenough 's foolish speeches ; but her perfect freedom was gone ; and with it half her chance , that is to say , half her chance would have been lost over any strangers who had not known her before ; they would probably have thought her stiff and awkward , and apt to say things and then retract them . 
And she only took Molly by the hand and led her into the drawing-room , where , as if by a sudden impulse of gratitude for all the tender nursing she had received during her illness , she put her arms round Molly , and kissed her long and well . 
To-day Molly quickly saw the whole state of the family affairs . 
She thought that even had Roger said nothing about them at the Towers , she should have seen that neither the father nor the daughter-in-law had as yet found the clue to each other 's characters , although they had now been living for several months in the same house . 
Aimée seemed to forget her English in her nervousness ; and to watch with the jealous eyes of a dissatisfied mother , all the proceedings of the squire towards her little boy . 
Aimée could hardly attend to Molly for her anxiety as to what her boy was doing and eating ; yet she said nothing . 
After the boy 's first wants were gratified the squire addressed himself to Molly . 
`` They asked me , and I went , '' said Molly ; `` now you 've asked me , and I 've come here . '' 
Why , Molly ! 
`` Nay , you need n't look at me so pitifully , she does n't follow English readily . '' 
`` I think she does ! '' 
said Molly , in a low voice , -- not looking up , however , for fear of catching another glimpse at Aimée 's sudden forlornness of expression and deepened colour . 
She felt grateful , as if for a personal favour , when she heard Roger speaking to Aimée the moment afterwards in the tender terms of brotherly friendliness ; and presently these two were sufficiently engaged in a separate conversation to allow Molly and the squire to go on talking . 
`` That 's just like her ! '' 
Molly made a point of turning the conversation from all personal subjects after this , and kept the squire talking about the progress of his drainage during the rest of lunch . 
He offered to take her to see it ; and she acceded to the proposal , thinking , meantime , how little she need have anticipated the being thrown too intimately with Roger , who seemed to devote himself to his sister-in-law . 
Aimée , too , silently noticed how different Molly became in Roger 's presence . 
One day she could not help saying to Molly , -- `` Do n't you like Roger ? 
`` He is very good , '' said Molly . 
Molly had grown very fond of Aimée ; when the latter was at her ease she had very charming and attaching ways ; but feeling uneasy in her position in the squire 's house , she was almost repellent to him ; and he , too , put on his worst side to her . 
Roger was most anxious to bring them together , and had several consultations with Molly as to the best means of accomplishing this end . 
As long as they talked upon this subject , she spoke to him in the quiet sensible manner which she inherited from her father ; but when their discussions on this point were ended , she fell back into her piquant assumption of dignified reserve . 
It was very difficult to her to maintain this strange manner , especially when once or twice she fancied that it gave him pain ; and she would go into her own room and suddenly burst into tears on these occasions , and wish that her visit was ended , and that she was once again in the eventless tranquillity of her own home . 
Yet presently her fancy changed , and she clung to the swiftly passing hours , as if she would still retain the happiness of each . 
For , unknown to her , Roger was exerting himself to make her visit pleasant . 
He was not willing to appear as the instigator of all the little plans for each day , for he felt as if , somehow , he did not hold the same place in her regard as formerly . 
Still , one day Aimée suggested a nutting expedition -- another day they gave little Roger the unheard-of pleasure of tea out-of-doors -- there was something else agreeable for a third ; and it was Roger who arranged all these simple pleasures -- such as he knew Molly would enjoy . 
But to her he only appeared as the ready forwarder of Aimée 's devices . 
and to think that when you two lads flew right in your father 's face , and picked out girls below you in rank and family , you should neither of you have set your fancies on my little Molly there . 
Do n't you think you could turn your thoughts upon Molly Gibson , Roger ? '' 
And soon he was discussing the relative values of meadow , arable and pasture land with his father , as heartily as if he had never know Molly , or loved Cynthia . 
At the end of it he said àpropos de bottes , -- `` But do n't you think you could like her if you tried , Roger ? '' 
It so happened that on Molly 's last morning at the Hall , she received her first letter from Cynthia -- Mrs. Henderson . 
It was just before breakfast-time ; Roger was out of doors , Aimée had not as yet come down ; Molly was alone in the dining-room , where the table was already laid . 
She had just finished reading her letter when the squire came in , and she immediately and joyfully told him what the morning had brought to her . 
But when she saw the squire 's face , she could have bitten her tongue out for having named Cynthia 's name to him . 
`` I wish I might never hear of her again . 
She 's been the bane of my Roger , that 's what she has . 
I have n't slept half the night , and it 's all her fault . 
I wish it had been you , Molly , my lads had taken a fancy for . 
I wish young men would think so too , '' he muttered as he went to the side-table to carve the ham , while Molly poured out the tea -- her heart very hot all the time , and effectually silenced for a space . 
It was with the greatest difficulty that she could keep tears of mortification from falling . 
She felt altogether in a wrong position in that house , which had been like a home to her until this last visit . 
He saw in an instant that something had distressed Molly ; and he longed to have the old friendly right of asking her what it was . 
But she had effectually kept him at too great a distance during the last few days for him to feel at liberty to speak to her in the old straightforward brotherly way ; especially now , when he perceived her efforts to conceal her feelings , and the way in which she drank her tea in feverish haste , and accepted bread only to crumble it about her plate , untouched . 
It was all that he could do to make talk under these circumstances ; but he backed up her efforts as well as he could until Aimée came down , grave and anxious : her boy had not had a good night , and did not seem well ; he had fallen into a feverish sleep now , or she could not have left him . 
Molly quickly proposed that the carriage , which had been ordered to take her home at eleven , should come round immediately -- she had everything ready packed up , she said , -- and bring back her father at once . 
By leaving directly , she said it was probable they might catch him after he had returned from his morning visits in the town , and before he had set off on his more distant round . 
Her proposal was agreed to , and she went upstairs to put on her things . 
She came down all ready into the drawing-room , expecting to find Aimée and the squire there ; but during her absence word had been brought to the anxious mother and grandfather that the child had wakened up in a panic , and both had rushed up to their darling . 
But Roger was in the drawing-room awaiting Molly , with a large bunch of the choicest flowers . 
`` Look , Molly ? '' 
said he , as she was on the point of leaving the room again , on finding him there alone . 
He came to meet her reluctant advance . 
said she . 
`` Then you must do something for me , '' said he , determined not to notice the restraint of her manner , and making the re-arrangement of the flowers which she held as a sort of link between them , so that she could not follow her impulse , and leave the room . 
His voice was so kind and true , -- his manner so winning yet wistful , that Molly would have been thankful to tell him all . 
She believed that he could have helped her more than any one to understand how she ought to behave rightly ; he would have disentangled her fancies , -- if only he himself had not lain at the very core and centre of all her perplexity and dismay . 
How could she tell him of Mrs. Goodenough 's words troubling her maiden modesty ? 
How could she ever repeat what his father had said that morning , and assure him that she , no more than he , wished that their old friendliness should be troubled by the thought of a nearer relationship ? 
`` No , you never vexed me in my whole life , Roger , '' said she , looking straight at him for the first time for many days . 
I have no right to ask further , Molly . 
`` Take whichever you like , '' said she , eagerly offering him the whole nosegay to choose from . 
Roger would have been glad if Molly had not gone on so eagerly to ransack the bunch for the choicest flower in his father 's presence ; but she exclaimed : `` Oh , please , Mr. Hamley , do you know which is Roger 's favourite flower ? '' 
The carriage is at the door , and , Molly my dear , I do n't wa n't to hurry you , but -- '' `` I know . 
And the squire took her to the carriage , talking all the way of the little boy ; Roger following , and hardly heeding what he was doing in the answer he kept asking himself : `` Too late -- or not ? 
Can she ever forget that my first foolish love was given to one so different ? '' 
While she , as the carriage rolled away , kept saying to herself , -- `` We are friends again . 
The day before , he had believed that Molly had come to view all the symptoms of his growing love for her , -- symptoms which he thought had been so patent , -- as disgusting inconstancy to the inconstant Cynthia ; that she had felt that an attachment which could be so soon transferred to another was not worth having ; and that she had desired to mark all this by her changed treatment of him , and so to nip it in the bud . 
Molly sent her father , as soon as she could find him , to the Hall ; and then sate down to the old life in the home drawing-room , where she missed Cynthia 's bright presence at every turn . 
Mrs. Gibson was in rather a querulous mood , which fastened itself upon the injury of Cynthia 's letter being addressed to Molly , and not to herself . 
`` Considering all the trouble I had with her trousseau , I think she might have written to me . '' 
`` But she did -- her first letter was to you , mamma , '' said Molly , her real thoughts still intent upon the Hall -- upon the sick child -- upon Roger , and his begging for the flower . 
`` Yes , just a first letter , three pages long , with an account of her crossing ; while to you she can write about fashions , and how the bonnets are worn in Paris , and all sorts of interesting things . 
`` You may see my letter , mamma , '' said Molly , `` there is really nothing in it . '' 
`` And to think of her writing , and crossing to you who do n't value it , while my poor heart is yearning after my lost child ! 
`` Do tell me something about your visit , Molly . 
When he came to see her after his return , she was already engaged to Mr. Henderson -- he had come down that very day , '' said Molly , with perhaps more heat than the occasion required . 
`` One may see you 've been stopping with people of robust health , and -- excuse my saying it , Molly , of your friends -- of unrefined habits , you 've got to talk in so loud a voice . 
But do remember my head , Molly . 
`` I do n't think it is likely , '' said Molly , stoutly . 
said Molly . 
replied Molly , anxious at any cost to keep off the subject of the Hamleys , upon which she and her stepmother always disagreed , and on which she found it difficult to keep her temper . 
I wish you had known him , Molly . 
She began to think on the impossibilities she had suggested . 
said Molly , after a pause , speaking out her thought . 
asked Molly , much shocked . 
`` Molly ! 
Molly ! 
what a shame to think that Roger -- '' And she stopped suddenly short , as if she were choked . 
`` All sorts of thoughts cross one 's mind -- it depends upon whether one gives them harbour and encouragement , '' said Molly . 
Molly agreed , sooner than take the trouble of thinking about the thing at all ; she was far too full of her silent review of all the traits in Roger 's character which had lately come under her notice , and that gave the lie direct to her stepmother 's supposition . 
said Molly , eagerly . 
It 's well you left when you did , Molly . 
asked Molly . 
Molly knew now that he was much interested in the case . 
For some days there was imminent danger to the little boy ; for some weeks there was a more chronic form of illness to contend with ; but when the immediate danger was over and the warm daily interest was past , Molly began to realize that , from the strict quarantine her father evidently thought it necessary to establish between the two houses , she was not likely to see Roger again before his departure for Africa . 
if she had but made more of the uncared-for days that she had passed with him at the Hall ! 
Worse than uncared for ; days on which she had avoided him ; refused to converse freely with him ; given him pain by her change of manner ; for she had read in his eyes , heard in his voice , that he had been perplexed and pained , and now her imagination dwelt on and exaggerated the expression of his tones and looks . 
One evening after dinner , her father said , -- `` As the country-people say , I 've done a stroke of work to-day . 
`` What did I say the other day , Molly ? '' 
said Mrs. Gibson , interrupting , and giving Molly a look of extreme intelligence . 
Still Roger '' -- -LRB- Molly 's cheeks grew warm and her eyes soft and bright ; it was such a pleasure to hear his name -RRB- -- `` and I both agree that his mother knows much better how to manage the boy than his grandfather does . 
For he had not told Molly all that had passed between him and Roger . 
Roger had begun a fresh subject of conversation just as Mr. Gibson was hastening away from the Hall , after completing the new arrangement for Aimée and her child . 
`` Then I shall not see Molly again ! '' 
`` You will take a message to her from me , wo n't you ? 
Mr. Gibson , just speak to me one word of what must be in your heart , though you are pretending not to understand why I would give worlds to see Molly again before I go . '' 
Then he pulled himself up , and said gravely enough , -- `` Mind , Molly is not Cynthia . 
If she were to care for you , she is not one who could transfer her love to the next comer . '' 
I can see the pitying look in Molly 's eyes as she watched me ; I can see it now . 
And I could beat myself for being such a blind fool as to -- What must she think of me ? 
how she must despise me , choosing the false Duessa . '' 
If I called her the false Duessa it was because I wanted to express my sense of the difference between her and Molly as strongly as I could . 
Besides , all I wanted to say was , -- Do you think that Molly , after seeing and knowing that I had loved a person so inferior to herself , could ever be brought to listen to me ? '' 
And I had resolved never to give Molly a hint of what I felt till I returned , -- and then to try and win her by every means in my power . 
And perhaps , after all , she avoided me when she was here last . '' 
I 'm not mercenary , -- Molly has some money independently of me , -- that she by the way knows nothing of , -- not much ; -- and I can allow her something . 
You will see Molly this afternoon ! '' 
Mr. Gibson gave Roger 's message to his wife and to Molly that evening at dinner . 
It was but what the latter had expected , after all her father had said of the very great danger of infection ; but now that her expectation came in the shape of a final decision , it took away her appetite . 
She submitted in silence ; but her observant father noticed that after this speech of his , she only played with the food on her plate , and concealed a good deal of it under her knife and fork . 
Molly tried hard to forget it in working away at a cushion she was preparing as a present to Cynthia ; people did worsted-work in those days . 
`` Molly -- come here ! 
Molly looked , and in an instant recognized Roger under all his wraps . 
Her first instinct was to draw back . 
And she responded to his sign ; but she was not sure if he perceived her modest quiet movement , for Mrs. Gibson became immediately so demonstrative that Molly fancied that her eager foolish pantomimic motions must absorb all his attention . 
Molly could only peep here and there , dodging now up , now down , now on this side , now on that of the perpetually-moving arms . 
She fancied she saw something of a corresponding movement on Roger 's part . 
Mrs. Gibson at last retreated , and Molly quietly moved into her place to see his figure once more before the turn of the road hid it from her view . 
Molly waved hers high up , with eager longing that it should be seen . 
and Molly returned to her worsted-work , happy , glowing , sad , content , and thinking to herself how sweet is friendship ! 
When she came to a sense of the present , Mrs. Gibson was saying , -- `` Upon my word , though Roger Hamley has never been a great favourite of mine , this little attention of his has reminded me very forcibly of a very charming young man -- a soupirant , as the French would call him -- Lieutenant Harper -- you must have heard me speak of him , Molly ? '' 
said Molly , absently . 
`` Here 's medicine for you , mamma , '' said Molly , entering with a letter held up in her hand . 
And , Molly , you must have a new gown . '' 
`` And Cynthia wo n't mind what I wear , '' said Molly , bright with pleasure at the thought of seeing her again . 
He has such a quick eye for dress , and I think I rival papa ; if he is a good stepfather , I 'm a good stepmother , and I could not bear to see my Molly shabby , and not looking her best . 
But Molly stood out against the new gown for herself , and urged that if Cynthia and Walter were to come to visit them often , they had better see them as they really were , in dress , habits , and appointments . 
When Mr. Gibson had left the room , Mrs. Gibson softly reproached Molly for her obstinacy . 
`` You might have allowed me to beg for a new gown for you , Molly , when you knew how much I admired that figured silk at Brown 's the other day . 
We know that Roger Hamley will marry Molly , and that is what we are most concerned about . 
Had the writer lived , she would have sent her hero back to Africa forthwith ; and those scientific parts of Africa are a long way from Hamley ; and there is not much to choose between a long distance and a long time . 
The days were weeks that separated him from the time when Molly gave him a certain little flower , and months from the time which divorced him from Cynthia , whom he had begun to doubt before he knew for certain that she was never much worth hoping for . 
They were like years of a stay-at-home life , with liberty and leisure to see that nobody was courting Molly meanwhile . 
The effect of this was , that long before the term of his engagement was ended all that Cynthia had been to him was departed from Roger 's mind , and all that Molly was and might be to him filled it full . 
He returned ; but when he saw Molly again he remembered that to her the time of his absence might not have seemed so long , and was oppressed with the old dread that she would think him fickle . 
Therefore this young gentleman , so self-reliant and so lucid in scientific matters , found it difficult after all to tell Molly how much he hoped she loved him ; and might have blundered if he had not thought of beginning by showing her the flower that was plucked from the nosegay . 
How charmingly that scene would have been drawn , had Mrs. Gaskell lived to depict it , we can only imagine : that it would have been charming -- especially in what Molly did , and looked , and said -- we know . 
Roger and Molly are married ; and if one of them is happier than the other , it is Molly . 
Her husband has no need to draw upon the little fortune which is to go to poor Osborne 's boy , for he becomes professor at some great scientific institution , and wins his way in the world handsomely . 
But he takes a partner , so as to get a chance of running up to London to stay with Molly for a few days now and then , and `` to get a little rest from Mrs. Gibson . '' 
But it is useless to speculate upon what would have been done by the delicate strong hand which can create no more Molly Gibsons -- no more Roger Hamleys . 
Viewed in this light , Cynthia is a more important piece of work even than Molly , delicately as she is drawn , and true and harmonious as that picture is also . 
