said Mary Irving , hastily entering her cousin 's room at the large boarding-school of Madame -- . 
I wish , dear Florry , you could imbue me with some of your fondness for metaphysics and mathematics , '' Mary replied , with a low sigh . 
A momentary flush passed over the face of her companion , and they descended the stairs in silence . 
His eye was fixed on the door as the pupils came in , one by one , for prayers , and when Florence and Mary entered , it sunk upon his book . 
Many who coincided with them tittered , others stared in silence , while Florence 's lip curled , and Mary looked sorrowingly , pityingly upon them -- hers was the expression with which the angel multitudes of Heaven regard their erring brethren here . 
asked Mary , while her voice slightly trembled . 
`` Come to my room , Mary ; it is strange the letters are post-marked the same day . '' 
`` You remember the cousin Mary , whose father died not long ago ? 
Well , she has lost her mother too , and is coming to live with us . '' 
`` She will be here this evening , and I hope you will try to make her contented . '' 
With these words he was leaving the room , but Florence said , `` Father , is she to stay with us always , and will she sleep in my room , with me ? '' 
`` She will live with us as long as she likes , and , if you prefer it , can occupy the same room . '' 
Mr. Hamilton shook her hand kindly , and , after a few words of welcome , said , `` Here is your cousin Florence , Mary . 
Mary looked almost fearfully at her proud young cousin , but the sight of her own pale , tearful face touched Florry 's heart , and she threw her arms round her neck and kissed her . 
The embrace was unexpected , and Mary wept bitterly . 
`` Florence , why do n't you take Mary to her room ? '' 
And taking her basket from her hand , Florry led the way . 
Mary took off her bonnet , and turned to look again at her cousin . 
Their eyes met ; but , as if overcome by some sudden recollection , she buried her face in her hands and burst again into tears . 
Florence stood for some time in silence , at length she said , gently , `` It is almost tea-time , and father will be angry if he sees you have been crying . '' 
I ca n't help it , indeed I ca n't , '' sobbed the little mourner , `` he is so much like my dear , darling mother ; '' and she stifled a cry of agony . 
`` Is my father like your mother , cousin Mary ? '' 
A tear rolled over Florry 's cheek , and she slowly replied , `` I wish I knew somebody that looked like my mother . '' 
Years rolled on , and found Mary happy in her adopted home . 
If her uncle failed to caress her as her loving heart desired , she did not complain , for she was treated like her cousin , and found in the strong love of Florence an antidote for every care . 
Mary was about sixteen , and Florence a few months younger , at the time our story opens , and had been placed in New Orleans to acquire French and music , as good masters could not be obtained nearer home . 
Florence , though somewhat younger , was taller by several inches , and her noble and erect carriage , in connection with the haughty manner in which her head was thrown back , added in effect to her height . 
Her hair and eyes were brilliant black , the latter particularly thoughtful in their expression . 
The expression was cold and haughty ; and for this reason she had received the appellations of `` Minerva '' and `` Juno , '' such being considered by her fellow-pupils as singularly appropriate . 
Mary , on the contrary , was slight and drooping , and her sweet , earnest countenance , elicited the love of the beholder , even before an intimate acquaintance had brought to view the beautiful traits of her truly amiable character . 
Florence broke the seal of her letter , and Mary walked to the window . 
Mary stood watching the manœuvres of a little girl , who was endeavoring to pass dry-shod , when a low groan startled her ; and turning quickly , she perceived Florence standing in the centre of the room , the letter crumpled in one hand : her face had grown very pale , and the large eyes gleamed strangely . 
and imploringly she clasped her hands . 
Florence made a powerful effort , and spoke , in her usual tone : `` I was foolish to give way to my feelings , even for a moment -- my father is well . '' 
She paused , and then added , as if painfully , `` But , oh ! 
echoed Mary , as though she could not comprehend her cousin 's meaning . 
`` Yes , Mary , he has been very unfortunate in his speculations , obliged to sell our plantation and negroes , and now , he says , ` a few paltry thousands only remain ; ' but , oh ! 
She paused , as if unwilling to add something which must be told , and looked sadly at her cousin . 
Mary understood the glance . 
`` Mary , here is a letter inclosed for you ; but first hear what my father says , '' and hurriedly she read as follows : ... . 
`` With regard to Mary , it can not be expected that she should wish to accompany us on our rugged path , and bitterly , bitterly do I regret our separation . 
Her paternal uncle , now in affluence , has often expressed a desire to have her with him , and , since my misfortunes , has written me , offering her a home in his family . 
Did I not feel that she would be benefited by this separation , nothing could induce me to part with her , but , under existing circumstances , I can consent to give her up . '' 
Florence flung the letter from her as she concluded , and approaching her cousin , clasped her arms fondly about her . 
Mary had covered her face with her hands , and the tears glistened on her slender fingers . 
it is cruel in him to judge me so harshly , '' and she sobbed aloud . 
`` No , dear Mary ; if he thought you preferred going with us , no power on earth could induce him to leave you . '' 
Mary placed her hand in her cousin 's , and murmured , `` Florry , I will go with you ; your home shall be my home , and your sorrows my sorrows . '' 
A flash of joy irradiated Florence 's pale face as she returned her cousin 's warm embrace . 
`` With you , Mary , to comfort and assist me , I fear nothing ; but you have not yet read your uncle 's letter , perhaps its contents may influence your decision . '' 
Mary perused it in silence , and then put it in her cousin 's hand , while the tears rolled over her cheeks . 
`` Mary , think well ere you reject this kind offer . 
Think well , Mary , lest in after-years you repent your hasty decision . '' 
Mary lifted her bowed head , and pushing back her clustering hair , calmly replied , `` My heart swells with gratitude toward my noble , generous uncle . 
Mary , it is not for myself that I regret this change of fortune , but for my proud , haughty father , who will suffer so keenly . 
Florence shook her head . 
`` Still , I think we can do much to lighten his cares , and I pray God I may not be mistaken , '' replied Mary . 
Florence lifted her head from her palm and gazed vacantly at her cousin , then started from her seat . 
`` Mary , we must not sit here idly , when there is so much to do . 
Her cheek flushed , but without a reply she left the room , and descended the steps which led to Madame -- 's parlor . 
Reaching the door , she drew herself proudly up , then knocked . 
She did so . 
He rose and bowed coldly in answer to her salutation . 
`` She does , '' was the laconic answer , and slowly she retraced her steps , and stood at her own door . 
She paused a moment , then entered . 
Her tone was hard , dry , as though she had been striving long for some goal , which , when nearly attained , her failing strength was scarce able to grasp . 
It was the echo of a fearful struggle that had raged in her proud bosom . 
Mary gazed sadly on her cousin , who stood mechanically smoothing her glossy black hair . 
The cold , vacant look had passed away ; her dark eyes gleamed , glittered as with anticipated triumph . 
Florence 's face softened ; an expression of relief began to steal over her countenance ; but as Mary ceased speaking , she turned her face , beautiful in its angelic purity , full upon her . 
A bitter smile curled Florence 's lip , and muttering hoarsely , `` A few more hours and the struggle will be over , '' she turned to her bureau , and arranged her clothes for packing . 
Mary opened it ; the servant handed in a card and withdrew . 
Florence passed out , Mary remained behind . 
`` Mary , you have identified yourself with us . 
She extended her hand , and the next moment they stood in the reception room . '' 
Florence pressed her lips to the one she held , and exclaimed , `` My dear father , how glad I am to see you ! '' 
He made no reply , and then Mary said , in a low , tremulous tone , `` Uncle , you have done me a great injury , and you must make me all the reparation in your power . 
`` Mary ! 
She threw her arms about his neck , and sobbed , `` Take me ! 
`` If you so earnestly desire it , you shall indeed go with us , my Mary . '' 
And , for the first time in her life , he imprinted a kiss on her brow . 
Every thing was packed the ensuing day , when Mary suddenly remembered that her books were still in the recitation room , and would have gone for them , but Florence said , `` I will bring up the books , Mary ; you are tired and pale with bending so long over that trunk . '' 
And accordingly she went . 
Mary threw herself on the couch to rest a moment , and fell into a reverie of some length , unheeding the flying minutes , when she recollected that Florence had been absent a long time , and rising , was about to seek her ; just then her cousin entered . 
A change had come over her countenance -- peace , quiet , happiness reigned supreme . 
`` I am not sure that I ever learned it , Mary ; '' he dryly replied , seating himself at the table . 
`` Yes ; and if you will rise to-morrow with Aurora , when ` she sprinkies with rosy light the dewy lawn , ' I will promise to conduct you to it . '' 
`` Thank you ; but Mary , what induced you to ramble so early ? '' 
`` Were you alone , Mary ? '' 
continued Mary , with an inquiring glance round the room . 
`` She went to mass this morning , '' replied her cousin . 
`` He would lay claim to saintship on the strength of it , '' replied Mary . 
Do sit down and eat your breakfast , or it will be so cold you can not touch it , '' said Mary . 
`` No really devout Catholic tastes food on this holy day , '' she answered , motioning it from her . 
`` Father Mazzolin said , this morning , that all who kept this holy day would add a bright jewel to their crown , and obtain the eternal intercession of the blessed saint ; '' and she left the room . 
The last few sentences had fallen unheeded on Florence 's ear , for she sat looking out the window , her thoughts evidently far away . 
But every trace of merriment vanished from Mary 's face , and instead of her bright smile , a look of painful anxiety settled there . 
A long silence ensued ; Mary stood by the table , wiping the cups as Aunt Fanny rinsed them , and occasionally glancing at her cousin . 
`` Certainly , Mary , but do you remember what father said about our remaining at home , to-day ? '' 
In a few moments they set out , equipped in large straw hats , and equally large gloves ; in addition , Mary carried in her hand a basket , filled with herbs and flowers . 
She kissed Mary affectionately , and cordially shook Florence 's hand . 
`` I am glad you came , Mary . 
`` Mary , my poor blind proselyte died yesterday , and bequeathed her orphan child to me : I feel almost obliged to accept the charge , for her fear lest it should fall into the Padre 's hands was painful to behold , and I promised to protect it , if possible . 
Mary , how much we need a Protestant minister here : one who could effectually stem the tide of superstition and degradation that now flows unimpeded through this community . 
`` You forget , Mary , in your proselyting enthusiasm , that Aunt Lizzy belongs to the despised sect ; surely you can not intend , by attacks on her religion , to render her home unpleasant ? '' 
Mary 's eyes filled with tears , as she glanced reproachfully at her cousin , and replied , `` Nothing is further from my wishes , Florry , than to make her home other than happy . 
`` You have expressed my feelings exactly , Mrs. Carlton , and there are times when I wish myself a missionary , that I might carry light to this benighted race , '' exclaimed Mary , enthusiastically . 
`` I often think , '' replied Mary , thoughtfully , `` that we make great sacrifices with comparative ease , because we feel our own insufficiency , and rely more on God for assistance ; while in lesser troubles we are so confident of success , that we neglect to ask his blessing , and consequently fail in our unaided attempts . '' 
`` You are right , Mary , and it should teach us to distrust our powers , and lead us to lean upon ` Him , who is very precious help in time of need . ' '' 
Hastily they set it down , on seeing Mary , and sprung to her side : the little girl clung around her neck , and kissed her repeatedly . 
Pardon my interruption , Elliot , and finish your story , '' continued Mary . 
`` Oh , guard them carefully ; for , surrounded by these influences , it will be difficult to prevent contamination , '' said Mary , earnestly . 
`` To what does this tend , '' asked Mary , anxiously . 
His dark eyes were fixed laughingly upon her . 
`` Yes , and sad enough it is , '' said Mary , with a sigh . 
Mary took her basket , which Mrs. Carlton had filled with work , and they descended the steps . 
He raised himself , and peeped inquiringly over the edge ; Mary swung it playfully behind her . 
Mary looked at Mrs. Carlton : both smiled . 
`` Mary , shall we tell Frank what we intend those herbs for ? '' 
They had not proceeded far , when Mary exclaimed , pointing behind her , `` Oh , uncle , that woman will be killed ! 
cried Mary , clasping her hands . 
Mary saw the danger , and rushing round the enraged horse , fearlessly pushed off the piece which was attached to the pommel of the saddle , and freed the unfortunate matron . 
Mary was bending over the moaning woman , but turned suddenly , and saw her uncle stretched at Florence 's feet . 
They raised his head , and motioned to the Mexicans , that now gathered round , for water ; some was hastily procured , and then Mary entreated one of them to go for Dr. Bryant : as she spoke , the tramp of hoofs caused her to look up , and she perceived him urging his horse toward them . 
Florence briefly explained the manner in which her father received a kick on the chest . 
said she , anxiously . 
Nearly a week passed , and one evening Mary followed the physician , as he left the house : he heard her step , and turned . 
Mary sobbed bitterly and long . 
Dr. Bryant sought not to comfort her by exciting false hopes , but paced up and down the gravel-walk beside her . 
she said at last , in a low , trembling tone . 
`` I confess to Almighty God , to blessed Mary , ever Virgin , to blessed Michael the Archangel , to blessed John the Baptist , to the holy apostles Peter and Paul , and to all the saints , that I have sinned exceedingly in thought , word , and deed , through my most grievous fault . 
Therefore I beseech the blessed Mary , ever Virgin , the blessed Michael the Archangel , the blessed John the Baptist , the holy apostles Peter and Paul , and all the saints , to pray to the Lord our God for me . 
`` My daughter , hast thou been of late with that Protestant girl , by name Mary Irving ? '' 
`` I have seen her twice since last confession . '' 
`` Where did you meet her ? '' 
`` Once at Señora Perraras , and once she came for me , to walk with her . '' 
At last she said , `` Indeed , Padre , I can not remember much she said . 
It was mostly of birds , and trees , and flowers , and something , I believe , about this beautiful town , as she called it . '' 
Did she not speak lightly of the blessed church , and most holy faith ? 
Did she not strive to turn you to her own cursed doctrines , and , above all , did she not speak of me , your Padre , with scorn ? '' 
`` No , my Father , most truly she did not . '' 
`` I bid you now beware of her , and her friend , the trader 's wife . 
Mrs. Carlton found in Mary a real friend ; one who sympathized with , and assisted her in her many benevolent plans for ameliorating the condition of the destitute Mexicans around them . 
With unwearied patience he watched over the beautiful Señorita , whom Mrs. Carlton and Mary most carefully nursed , and was rewarded by the glow of returning health . 
The idols of her youth were neglected and forgotten ; one image filled Inez 's heart , and before it she poured out all the passionate love of her ardent nature ; hence her aversion to a union with Mañual Nevarro . 
Mary and Florence he often met , for he was a constant visitor at Mr. Hamilton 's . 
His manner toward them was very different ; with Mary he ever assumed the light bantering tone of brotherly freedom ; with Florence he was always grave and earnest . 
Their conversation was generally upon literary topics , of which she was fond . 
In these arguments Mary seldom took part , though fully qualified to do so . 
Occasionally her cousin asked her opinion on various topics ; at such times she gave them clearly , yet modestly , and with a gentle digmity peculiar to herself . 
The earnest attention with which Frank listened to her views , and his happy smile , when they coincided with his own , somewhat puzzled Mary ; yet she welcomed his repartees with the same bright smile , and allowed distrust and jealousy no room in her heart . 
To her , it seems as though the current of time had forgotten to run on and join the mighty past , and that its swift waters were gathering glassily around her . 
With unmitigated care , Florence had attended the bedside of her suffering parent ; occasionally slumbering on his pillow , but more frequently watching through the long nights , and often stealing to the casement , to look out upon surrounding gloom , and wonder if the light of day would ever fall again on earth . 
He drew her reluctantly from her seat as he spoke , and whispered Mary to accompany her . 
Drawing her arm round Florence , Mary turned in the direction of their accustomed rambles , but her cousin said , `` I am too weary to walk far , let us go to our old seat by the river . '' 
In vain Mary strove to soothe and console her : she remained perfectly still , her face hid in her arms , and replied not to her anxious questionings . 
A long silence ensued , and Mary wept . 
A feeling of desolation began to creep over her ; a second time she was to be thrown on the wide , cold world . 
She thought of her uncle 's generosity and unvaried kindness during the many years she had dwelt under his roof , and scarcely felt that it was not her own . 
And then there stole up the image of her lost mother ; the wan , but saint-like face , and the heavenly smile with which she pointed upward , and bade her child prepare for the glorious union , in that mansion which Jehovah assigned to those who are faithful on earth . 
Poor Mary 's heart was sad indeed ; yet there was no bitterness in her soul , no rebellious feelings toward Almighty God , who had thus afflicted her so sorely . 
She wiped away her tears , and calming herself as much as possible , repeated , in a faltering voice , the beautiful hymn commencing `` I would not live always . '' 
She paused at the conclusion of the second verse ; but Florence did not lift her head , and hoping to cheer her , she finished the hymn . 
Florence rose mechanically and accompanied her . 
Her cousin sighed heavily , but made no reply . 
As they reached the gate it was quickly opened , and the Padre met them : he bowed coldly to Mary , but shook hands with Florence , and promised to come again the ensuing day . 
It was so late that Mary could not distinguish his features ; but just as he turned to go , Aunt Fanny threw open the kitchen door , and the light streamed full on his face ; their eyes met , and she started at the smile of triumph that irradiated his dark countenance : he bowed , and passed on . 
Mary hastened down the walk , and entered the sick room , fearing she scarcely knew what . 
For an instant she stood motionless ; then sprang forward , and clasped his burning hand in hers . 
`` I was not alone , Mary ; the Padre sat and talked with me ; '' as the sufferer spoke , he shuddered and closed his eyes . 
said she , taking up the crucifix and rosary . 
and he snatched them from her . 
Mary turned pale , and leaned against the bed for support . 
Florence , now bending over her father , motioned to her cousin to be silent ; without effect , however ; for , passing round the bed , she knelt beside him . 
He did not seem to hear her question ; she repeated it . 
`` Mary , will you drive my father delirious with your interference with his wishes ? '' 
She turned resolutely away as she finished speaking , and seated herself beside the bed . 
Mary left the room almost stunned by the discovery she had made ; and scarce knowing what to do , wrapped her shawl about her , and walked quickly to Mrs. Carlton 's . 
`` I fear , Mary , it is too late to remedy the evil . '' 
Early the ensuing day she fulfilled her promise , and in Florence 's presence strove to elicit his views and belief . 
To her surprise he refused to hold any conversation on the subject ; declaring that his mind was made up , and that he was determined to die a member of the holy Catholic Church . 
But Mary clung to the bed , and refused to go . 
He strove to force her out , but she clung firmly to the bed ; and muttering an oath between his teeth , he turned to the sufferer , and spoke in an unknown tongue ; a feeble response in the same language seemed to satisfy him , and darting a triumphant glance at the kneeling girl , he seated himself , and conversed for nearly an hour . 
Mrs. Carlton had not left the house ; she waited anxiously for Mary . 
cried Mary , in despair . 
nothing , Mary . 
With a sad heart Mrs. Carlton took leave , advising Mary `` to offer no further resistance , as it was now impossible to convince her uncle of his error . '' 
Thank God , you are strong-minded , and Mary , our kind , good Mary , will be near , to comfort and assist you . 
A little while after , as Mr. Hamilton 's eye fell on the weeping Mary , he extended his hand , and when she bent over him , drew her face down , and imprinted a long kiss on her pale cheek . 
Nearly an hour after , the priest entered the apartment where Florence and Mary sat . 
They immediately repaired to the sick room , and the spectacle there presented , made Mary quiver in every limb . 
Mary had gazed mournfully on , as this mummery was enacted . 
The Padre snatched his hat and hastily left the house , while Mary gave vent to an uncontrollable burst of sorrow . 
Florence seemed suddenly frozen , so rigid was her countenance , as she gazed on the cold form before her . 
She neither wept nor moaned , but closed the eyes with a long , long kiss , and drawing a sheet over the marble features , turned , with a slow , unfaltering step , away . 
Florence sat sadly apart , leaning her head , with closed eyes , against the window . 
The tea bell rang ; she lifted her head , glanced round the room , and wearily dropped her brow again on its resting place . 
Mary approached , and taking her hand , said , in a gentle , winning tone , `` Come , Florry dear . '' 
`` Eat your supper , Mary ; I do not wish any . '' 
Mary turned away , and ate the usually joyous meal with a heavy heart . 
Florence had left her seat , and was standing in the door : as her cousin rose from the table she beckoned to her , and passed hurriedly out . 
Mary strove to catch her arm , but she hastened on , as if trying to escape from herself . 
Suddenly she paused by the river side , and clasped her hands convulsively over her head . 
`` Mary ! 
Mary ! 
She dipped her hand in the water , and dashed the cold , sparkling drops on her cousin 's burning brow , speaking the while in a low , soothing tone . 
Florence rested a few moments in her cousin 's arms , then threw herself on a grassy bank , and covered her face ; one long , deep groan alone attesting her mental anguish . 
Mary wept more bitterly than she had yet done ; still , she was so quiet , none would have known her grief , save from the tears that fell over her hand and arms . 
Florence stood up before her cousin ; all trace of emotion had passed away , and left her calm . 
The bright moon shone full on her face . 
how changed since the morning she stood in Madame -- 's schoolroom . 
The large dark eyes were sunken ; the broad brow marked with lines of mental anguish ; the cheeks colorless , and her long raven hair tossed back , and hanging like a vail below her slender waist . 
`` Mary , look at me ! '' 
`` I am changed Mary , strangely changed , am I not ? 
you say truly ; but , Mary , have you never suspected that a secret grief was freezing the life-blood in my cheeks ? '' 
and Mary laid her hand anxiously on her cousin 's . 
`` Mary , listen to what I have to say . 
Years passed and we went to New Orleans -- '' Here Florence paused , and closed her eyes for a moment , but quickly resumed -- `` You know how I studied . 
Mary , was it merely from love of metaphysics and philosophy , think you ? 
Mary , from the first day we met , I loved him , for his was a master spirit . 
Mary , a suspicion stole into my heart , and stung me . 
Mary , that was the blackest , bitterest hour of my life . 
Mary , listen . 
Mary , I have watched for one loved form , and listened for that calm , proud step . 
Mary , he is married ! 
Oh , Mary , I am weary , weary ! 
At last nature has broken the bonds so long forced upon her , and the reaction is strong indeed . 
`` Mary , I have no incitement to exertion ; nothing to anticipate . 
Mary , never speak to me of it again ; and , above all , do not mention his name . 
We will open the school to-morrow ; and may God help me , Mary , pray , oh , pray for me ! 
She walked hurriedly to the house , and shut herself within her own apartment . 
Inez laid her hand on his arm , and looking him full in the face , asked , in a low tone -- `` Mañuel , would you help to drive Mary from her home among us ? 
She who nursed me in sickness , and bound the white bread to your bleeding arm , and made the tea for my dying mother , when none other came to help ? 
Spare Mary in her little home ; she hurts none , but makes many to die in peace . '' 
Left alone , the Spanish maiden sought her own apartment , muttering as she ascended the steps -- `` The Padre protect you , Mary ! 
She acquiesced in Mary 's plan of opening a small school , and unfalteringly performed her allotted tasks as assistant teacher . 
Mary had feared opposition on the part of the Padre , and was agreeably surprised at the number of Catholic children committed to her care . 
One morning early in October , having finished her household duties , she repaired to the schoolroom for the day . 
Florence was already at her post , though suffering from violent nervous headache . 
Mary seated herself with her back to the door , and called one of her classes . 
In vain she strove to impress on one that 2 from 8 left 6 . 
Anxious to facilitate the progress of her pupils , Mary spared no pains to make perspicuous what to them appeared obscure . 
A pair of globes could not be procured , and she taxed her ingenuity for a substitute . 
Selecting two apples , one enormous , the other medium size , she carefully introduced a reed through the centre of the smaller apple , thus causing it to revolve on its axis . 
Calling up the tyros in geography , she took the smallest , or `` Earth , '' as she designated it , and while causing it to perform the diurnal motion , she carried it slowly round the larger , or `` Sun , '' as she termed it : thus illustrating the combined movements of our globe . 
Even the dullest could not fail to comprehend ; and well satisfied with the result of her experiment , she carefuly put her planets by in one corner of the schoolroom , and proceeded with her questions . 
The imperfect recitation finished , Mary glanced across the room , hoping her cousin 's patience was not so tried , and some brilliant coruscations in that direction fixed her attention . 
Florence had dropped her aching head on the desk in front , shading her eyes with her hand ; before her , in dark array , stood some half dozen small boys just begining to spell . 
Florence looked around inquiringly , then dropt her head again on her hand , bidding the boy `` spell on . '' 
Elliot crammed his handkerchief into his mouth , and Mary smiled . 
Florence was effectually roused this time , by a shout of laughter from Elliot , in which he was joined by Mary , and Dr. Bryant , who had just entered , and was standing in such a position that no one had perceived him . 
`` To what do you allude , Doctor ; I am scarcely conscious of what passes around me this morning , '' said Florence , wearily pressing her hand across her aching brow . 
With a faint smile , which passed as quickly as it came , she dismissed the class with an additional lesson . 
`` I am sorry to see you suffering so much this morning , '' said Frank , seating himself beside her : `` and should certainly not recommend this schoolroom as an antidote to nervous attacks . 
cried Mary , fervently clasping her hands ; `` but oh ! 
She turned her eyes inquiringly on Frank , and started as she met the earnest , searching expression of his , bent full upon her face . 
`` How pale you have grown of late , '' he murmured as to himself , and replied to her questioning glance -- `` I think , myself , there is much danger incurred by remaining here ; but rest assured you shall not be harmed . 
He took Florence 's hand , and pressed it as he spoke ; then turning to Mary , who had walked away , he said -- `` I must insist on your cousin having rest ; she is weary and too much excited , and you , who are a good nurse , must take better care of her . '' 
`` Indeed , Doctor , I did my best to prevent her teaching to-day , but she would not listen to my entreaties , '' replied Mary , with averted head . 
`` I believe you are right , Doctor ; and if Mary concurs with us , I think we will follow your advice . '' 
Her voice faltered slightly , and her cheek grew paler . 
Mary sat near the table holding an open volume , but her thoughts had evidently wandered far away ; for her gaze was fixed abstractedly on the fire which blazed and crackled at her feet . 
The girl 's countenance was an interesting study , as she sat rapt in her saddened thoughts . 
A care-worn expression rested upon her face , as though some weighty responsibility too soon had fallen on one so frail . 
The cheeks were very pale , and now and then across the lips there came a quiver , as though she struggled inwardly , and fain would give no outward show of grief . 
In truth , an almost spiritual expression had come over her features ; the impress of some deep and hidden sorrow , nobly borne , though chasing the rosy hue from her cheeks . 
Sadder grew the look , and some acute pain wrinkled her brow as she threw aside the book , and covered her face with her hands ; while a heavy , yet smothered sigh , struggled forth , as if striving to relieve the aching heart . 
The door opened noiselessly , and a dark shrouded form glided with soft steps to the chair , and laid a heavy hand on her shoulder . 
Mary raised her head , and starting up , gazed inquiringly at the muffled face , while the intruder pointed to the motionless form of Florence , and laid a finger on her lip . 
Then beckoning Mary to follow , she receded , with stealthy tread , to the door , which was softly closed , and walked hurriedly on till she reached a large rose-tree , which shaded the window . 
Mary shivered as the piercing wind swept over her , and strove in vain to suppress a fit of coughing . 
Mary started . 
Inez took off the mantilla which had so effectually concealed her features , and threw it round the frail , drooping form before her . 
`` No , no , Inez , you will take cold ; '' and Mary tendered it back . 
Mary , why is it you have made me love you so , when I hate yonder dark-eyed girl ? 
Mary , if there was a God , would he suffer such as my Padre to minister in his holy place , and touch the consecrated vessels ? 
Mary , you are deceived ; your cousin is not what you think . 
She is a Catholic ; for mine own eyes have seen her in the confessional , and my own ears have listened to her aves and paters . '' 
Mary uttered a deep groan , and clasped Inez 's arm , murmuring -- `` You are -- you must be delirious or mad : Florry deceive me ! 
poor deluded Mary : do you trust any on earth ? 
Mary , I am sorry to make you drink so much that is bitter to-night ; but you must , for your own good ; better a friend should hold the cup and let you taste , than have it rudely forced upon you . '' 
Mary , go to your friends in the States ; or if you can not get there , go where your people are many , and take your Doctor with you , for blood will yet run down these streets , and I would not that his swelled the stream . 
Inez stretched out her hand for her mantilla , which she folded closely about her face , and then clasped Mary 's hand in hers . 
She drew a small Bible from her pocket as she spoke , and pressed it within Inez 's fingers , adding -- `` I can not sufficiently thank you for your kindness in warning me of my danger ; I shall leave this place as soon as possible , and shall constantly pray that you may be spared and blessed . '' 
Mary Irvingsought her chamber , and sinking on her knees , fervently implored the blessing and guidance of Him who is very precious help in time of need . 
Florence was slowly pacing up and down the floor ; she raised her head as Mary entered , then sunk it wearily on her bosom , and resumed her walk . 
`` Is it very important , Mary ? 
Florence seated herself , and as she did so , leaned her head on Mary 's shoulder , while the latter wound her arm fondly about her , and gently stroked back the raven hair from her aching brow . 
What do you fear , Mary ? '' 
`` Really , Mary , I should not have given you credit for so much credulity . 
`` Mary , can you not perceive that she is jealous of us , and hopes , by operating on your fears , to drive us from this place ? 
Mary 's face was colorless as marble , and her hands were tightly clasped as she bent forward with a longing , searching , eager look . 
Mary groaned and sank back into her chair , at this confirmation of her fears . 
I deny the right of any on earth to question my motives or actions ; yet I would not that you , Mary , who have loved me so long and truly , should be alienated , without hearing the reasons which I have to allege in favor of my conduct . 
Mary , think well when I ask you what prospect of happiness there was for me a month since ? 
Mary , I was groping my way in what seemed endless night , when suddenly there came a glimmer of light , faint as the first trembling rays of the evening star , and just pierced the darkness in which I wandered . 
Mary , do you wonder that I clasped the hand outstretched to save me , and besought him to lead me to the outraged and insulted God ? 
`` In the first place , '' said Mary , `` it would be ridiculous in the extreme to advocate all the opinions and tenets advanced by those same Fathers . 
`` Certainly , Mary ; for it is undeniable that St. Augustine in his Meditations calls on the blessed Virgin , and all the angels and apostles in heaven , to intercede with God in his behalf . 
Hear what the Rev. Dr. Milner says on this subject , in the first volume of his Ecclesiastical History ; '' and taking it from the shelf , Mary read : ``` The book of Meditations , though more known to English readers than any other of the works ascribed to Augustine , on account of the translation of it into our language by Stanhope , seems not to be his , both on account of its style , which is sententious , concise , abrupt , and void of any of those classical elegancies which now and then appear in our author 's genuine writings ; and also , on account of the prayers to deceased saints which it contains . 
And at vespers you say , ` Hail , Mary ! 
`` Mary , let me read a second time those passages from St. Augustine . 
`` There can be no doubt of his sentiments on this point ; but , Mary , this is only one decision , when I have been assured that the united voices of many Fathers established it without a doubt , even supposing there was no authority in Holy writ for such a custom -- which , however , we have , for did not Jacob wrestle with an angel , and did not his blessing descend upon him ? '' 
`` Mary , I was asking myself if vital Christianity could exist in any church which allows such a system of deceit on the part of its clergy ? 
`` Surely , Mary , you can not mean what you say ? 
Florence was leaning with clasped hands on the table , gazing intently at her cousin ; while Mary knelt on the other side , her hand resting on the large family Bible . 
The light fell full on her pale face as she knelt ; her chestnut curls half vailing the pure white cheek , and the dark-blue eyes , earnest , and yet almost angelic , in their gentle , loving expression . 
`` One more question , Mary . 
`` Mary , can you have mistaken the passage ? 
``` Confess ye your sins , one to another , ' is very strong in our favor , Mary ? '' 
`` If this passage of James were all we could adduce in favor of confession , I should think with you , Mary ; yet it is not so . 
Now , Mary , do you not plainly perceive that the power of forgiving sin was conferred upon the Apostles ? '' 
`` But , Mary , Christ says in another place -- ` Thou art Peter : and upon this rock I will build my church , and the gates of Hell shall not prevail against it . 
There followed a long pause , while Florence dropt her face in her hands , and sighed heavily . 
She rose and replaced the books she had been consulting . 
`` Mary , Mary ! 
Awakened by the first chirping of the feathered tribe , Florence rose as the gray morning light stole into her chamber , and seating herself at the window , looked out on the town before her . 
How delightful to her seemed `` The cool , the fragrant , and the silent hour To meditation due . '' 
Calmly she now weighed the conversation of the preceding night , and , engrossed in earnest thought , sat gazing out till the Orient shone resplendent , and an October sun poured his rays gloriously around her . 
Then she knelt , and prayed as she had never done before . 
She sought the `` pure fountain of light , '' and implored strength and guidance in her search after truth . 
Rising , her glance fell on her sleeping cousin , and she was struck with the change which within the last month had taken place in her appearance . 
Approaching the bed , she lifted the masses of chestnut hair that clung to the damp brow . 
As she looked on the pure , pale face , there came a gush of tenderness into her soul , and bending , she imprinted a long , warm kiss . 
Mary stirred , and opened her eyes . 
She closed them again , murmuring slowly , `` I feel as though I had no strength remaining ; I can scarcely lift my head . '' 
`` Sleep , Mary , if you can . 
Then Florence said in a low , calm tone : `` You are right , Mary ; we will go from this place ; I feel now that it is for the best . '' 
She averted her face ; but Mary saw an expression of keen agony resting there . 
Mary , how desolate and unprotected we are . '' 
`` Go to Mrs. Carlton 's , Mary , and I will convince aunt that it is best we should remove from here immediately . 
You need apprehend no difficulty on her part . 
`` No , Mary , I wish to be there alone . '' 
Mary sighed heavily , but offered no further opposition . 
Her walk to Mrs. Carlton 's was a sad one , for her heart clung to the scenes she had learned to love so well , and the prospect of departure , and the uncertainty of the future , weighed heavily on her heart , and made her step unwontedly slow . 
said Mary , anxiously . 
`` I am very glad to hear you say so , Mary ; not only upon your own account , but also for Frank . 
He seems completely rapt in the issue of the contest ; and would you believe it , Mary , he is anxious to enlist ; but my entreaties have as yet prevented him . '' 
Mary 's cheek was very pale , and her lips quivered convulsively , while the small hands clasped each other tightly . 
`` Mary , for my sake , use your influence with him in favor of going to Washington . 
Mary , Mary ! 
As she spoke , Mrs. Carlton clasped her friend to her heart , and wept on her shoulder . 
No tear dimmed Mary 's eye ; yet that she suffered , none who looked on her pale brow and writhing lips could doubt . 
As she raised her head to reply , Dr. Bryant entered , and started visibly on seeing her . 
`` Better than I had hoped , '' was the rejoinder ; and he held out his hand to Mary . 
She gave him hers , now cold as ice . 
Mary looked eagerly at Mrs. Carlton ; but she had averted her head ; and for a moment a terrible struggle within kept the gentle girl silent . 
Mary 's eyes were fixed earnestly on his face while he spoke , and though there was no change in his kind , gentle tone , there came an undefinable expression over his noble countenance -- an expression in which coldness and sorrow predominated . 
She could not understand him ; yet a shudder crept through her frame , and a sensation of acute pain stole into her heart . 
She felt as though a barrier had suddenly risen between them , yet could not analyze the cause . 
I will see you again to-morrow ; '' and bidding her good morning , he turned away . 
`` Florry will be waiting for me , and we have much to do at home ; so good-by , '' and Mary lifted her pale face for a farewell kiss . 
All I know is , that she and Mary sat till midnight , reading and talking , and she has not seemed like herself since . '' 
`` Holy Mary , pardon her unbelief , and send down light into her darkened soul ! '' 
said the calm , clear voice of Mary , who had approached unobserved . 
Winding her arm tightly about Florence 's waist , she replied -- ``` Vengeance is mine saith the Lord . 
Florence had turned away , and heeded not his question ; but Mary , clasping her hands , looked appealingly in his face : `` Oh , Padre , by the tie which you declare exists between yourself and Florry -- for the sake of your lost parent -- do not put your threat in execution . 
With a shudder Mary joined her cousin , and rapidly and in perfect silence they retraced their steps homeward . 
When they reached their gate , Mary would have opened it , but her cousin , taking her hand , led the way to their old seat beside the river . 
Florence seated herself as near the water as possible , and then tightly clasping the hand she held , asked in a voice of suppressed emotion ; `` Tell me , Mary , is there a purgatory ? '' 
`` Mary , you speak truth , and all that you say I can implicitly believe . 
`` Mary , I can not believe this doctrine , without further proof of Divine sanction . '' 
`` Relying implicitly on what the Padre asserted , Mary , I have never investigated these subjects as I should have done , before giving my credence and support ; but of the doctrine in question I can henceforth entertain but one opinion -- a detestable and infamous method of filling the papal coffers ; for since you have led me to think on this subject , I clearly remember that a large portion of the enormous expense incurred by the building , ornamenting , and repairing of St. Peter 's , was defrayed by money obtained through the sale of indulgences . 
Oh , Mary , how could I have been so deluded -- allowed myself to be so deceived ! '' 
She took from her pocket the rosary and crucifix which had been given to her father , and threw them impatiently into the river gurgling at her feet . 
`` Yet remember , Mary , that the sect in question is proverbial for charitable institutions . 
Somewhat abruptly she replied : `` Yet you will admit , Mary , that we owe much to the monks , by whose efforts light and knowledge were preserved during the dark ages ? 
`` Who will deny the truth of your statements , Mary ? 
`` Mary , can I ever , ever forget that hour in the church-yard ? '' 
Pray for me , Mary , that I may be enabled to lead the life of a Christian , and at last die the death of the righteous . '' 
Clasping tightly the hand which rested in her own , Mary replied : `` While life remains , it shall indeed be my prayer that you may be blessed on earth , and rewarded in heaven . 
She stopped suddenly , and pressed her hand to her side , while the pale brow wrinkled with pain . 
Mary shook her head , and smiled sadly : `` I dont know , Florry ; I have felt strangely of late . '' 
Mrs. Carlton and Mary were far more hopeful than the remainder of the little circle , and kept up the semblance of cheerfulness , which ever flies at the approach of danger . 
His manner , during his brief visits , was considerate and kind ; yet Mary fancied at times that he avoided her , though , marking her declining health , he had prescribed some simple remedy , and never failed to inquire if she were not improving . 
Still there was a certain something , indescribable , yet fully felt , which made her shrink from meeting him , and as week after week passed , her cheek grew paler , and her step more feeble . 
With an anxious heart , Mrs. Carlton watched her failing strength ; but to all inquiries and fears Mary replied that she did not suffer , save from her cough , and for a time dispelled her apprehensions . 
One evening Mary stood leaning against the window , looking earnestly , wistfully upon the beautiful tints which ever linger in the western sky . 
She stretched her arms toward the dim outline , murmuring slowly : `` Oh ! 
Darkness closed around -- the soft hues melted into the deep blue of the zenith as she stood communing with her own heart , and she started when a shawl was wrapped about her , and the window closed . 
As she spoke , a violent fit of coughing succeeded ; he watched her anxiously . 
Mary repressed a sigh which struggled up from her heart , and inquired if there was any news . 
Mary replied , with quivering lips , while the tone faltered , despite her efforts to seem calm . 
He held her hand in his , pressing it warmly , then lifted the cold fingers to his lips , and quietly turned away . 
`` Mary , where is your cousin ? 
I have not seen her since breakfast , '' inquired Mrs. Carlton , as the two friends sat conversing in the chamber of the latter . 
`` She laid aside her book just now , declaring it was so dark she could scarcely read . 
This gloomy day has infected her spirits ; she is probably in the dining-room . 
I will seek her . '' 
And rising , Mary left the apartment . 
Weary with pacing up and down the dining-room , Florence had stationed herself at the window , and stood with her cheek pressed against the panes , gazing dreamily out upon the deluged streets . 
She was roused from her reverie by Mary 's entrance . 
Here , Mary , stand beside me . 
Mary looked earnestly in the direction indicated by her cousin , and at length replied : `` You will scarcely credit my explanation : yet I assure you I perfectly understand the pantomime . 
`` It is almost incredible that they should ascribe such miraculous power to these little bits of painted canvas , '' replied Florence , gazing curiously upon the picture which was suspended with the face toward her . 
`` But , Mary , such superstitious ignorance is entirely confined to the degraded and uneducated classes . 
`` Most certainly they would , Mary : for doubtless many of the greatest minds Europe has produced , were and are still to be found among the Roman Catholic clergy . 
replied Florence , fixing her eyes inquiringly upon her cousin 's face . 
In the Ursuline Manual I find this assertion : ` The Hail Mary was composed in Heaven , dictated by the Holy Ghost , and delivered to the faithful by the Angel Gabriel ! ' 
`` But , Mary , admitting as you do , that you believe there exist many truly conscientious members of this sect , why indulge your apprehension at the promulgation of its tenets ? '' 
No words , save `` Holy Mary ! '' 
Florence had begun of late to grow cheerful again , and Mary watched , with silent joy , the delicate tinge come back to her marble cheek . 
She seemed very calm , and almost hopeful ; and the spirit of peace descended and rested on their hearth . 
Only one cause of sorrow remained -- Mary 's declining health : yet she faded so gently , and almost painlessly , that their fears were ofttimes lulled . 
Yet I will be true to Mary and to you . 
Twodays later the cousins sat in their front room , Florence intently reading , Mary watching beside the couch of pain , bathing her aunt 's brow , and chafing the hands . 
Her fingers had tightly clasped Mary 's small , thin hands , but gradually relaxing their hold , sunk beside her . 
Mary sought Florence 's eye ; it brightened with pleasure . 
`` Certainly , Mary ; why do you hesitate ? 
And she withdrew . 
asked Florence , anxiously , as her cousin left the room . 
Mary re-entered the room equipped for her ride , and now , for the first time , Florence thought her cousin beautiful Beneath her straw hat floated back from her fair face a luxuriant mass of brown curls ; a bright blush mantled the delicate cheek , and the gentle blue eyes seemed unusually large and brilliant . 
A smile dimpled round her lip as she met the fond glance bent upon her . 
Florence tenderly clasped her hand a moment , then kissed her warmly , and bade Dr. Bryant take all care of her . 
He promised to do so , and soon they had passed beyond her sight . 
They rode slowly , lest Mary should be too much fatigued ; and often the eyes of her companion rested on the frail but lovely being by his side . 
asked Mary , with averted head . 
He fixed his eyes earnestly on her face as he spoke . 
Slowly the head drooped , till the hat concealed her features . 
He gathered them up , and replaced them in her hand . 
We have learned to love San Antonio more dearly than any other place , except our old home ; '' replied Mary , earnestly . 
`` We heard of his marriage , '' said Mary , in a low tone , as the image of Florence rose before her . 
said Mary , in a quick , eager tone . 
I -- '' She stopped short , and her cheek crimsoned , as she met the piercing glance of his dark eye bent upon her face . 
Her small hands trembled so that the reins quivered , and she closed her eyes for a moment , while the glow fled from her cheeks , leaving them pale as marble . 
He caught her hand , and steadied her in her saddle . 
Her voice was low and faltering , and she with difficulty restrained the tears which sprung to her eyes . 
They entered the town , and then seeing her hand glide quickly to her side , he gently said : `` I am afraid we are riding too fast for you . '' 
Her lips writhed for a moment with acute pain ; but with a faint smile , which touched him with its sadness , she replied : `` I am better now -- the pain has almost left me . 
A look of bitterness passed over his face , and a sterner expression rested there than Mary had ever marked before . 
She knew not what to reply , for she could not comprehend the change , and even as she pondered , he pointed to the western sky , and , much in his usual tone , asked : `` Do n't you think the sunsets here exceed any you ever beheld elsewhere ? '' 
While he spoke , the figure of a woman emerged from a house near by , and , softly approaching Mary 's horse , laid her finger on her lips , and , pressing a piece of paper into her hand , returned as silently as she came . 
Dr. Bryant turned his head toward Mary as he finished speaking , and , catching a glimpse of the retreating form , looked inquiringly at her . 
She did not speak , but gave me this paper , '' and Mary unrolled the note : `` Santa Anna has crossed the Rio Grande with eight thousand men . 
With a groan , Mary handed him the paper . 
In silence he perused and returned it to her . 
They reached the gate , and he gently lifted the frail form from the saddle ; and , drawing her arm through his , led her to the house . 
said Mary , inquiringly . 
Mary longed inexpressibly to impart to her cousin what she had learned respecting Mr. Stewart , but shrank instinctively from reviving hopes which might never be realized -- hopes which Florence had long since crushed and cast out of her heart as dead . 
With an earnest prayer that her cousin might yet be blessed and happy , Mary determined not to broach the subject , at least for a time . 
Aunt Lizzy remained to give some final direction , and then came a sorrowful parting with their servants , one of whom took Mary in her arms and bade God bless her , while the tears rolled over her wrinkled face . 
Mary could not repress her own , and she sobbed convulsively . 
and she covered her face with her apron , and sobbed aloud . 
Mary wiped her own tears quickly away , and taking the hand of her old friend , led her back to the kitchen . 
For several moments her companions waited anxiously for her ; and soon she advanced slowly to meet them . 
Frank drew her arm through his , and sadly they walked away . 
Passing the gate , Mary paused and looked out on the river , where she had so often sat at this hour ; and sad though sweet associations , infinite in number , crowded upon her mind . 
How calm and beautiful all nature seemed , as though arrayed in its loveliest garb to chain her affection , that , in after years , the memory of that western home might steal gently up amidst surrounding gloom , to charm away the anguish of some bitter hour , and soothe the saddened spirit . 
Her heart was inexpressibly touched , and she averted her head to conceal the expression of keen sorrow which rested on her face . 
`` This view of the San Antonio has often struck me as particularly fine , '' said Dr. Bryant , turning to Florence , whose pale cheek alone attested regret at leaving her home . 
Mary was bending a last , long look on house and tree and river ; as they walked on , the different objects passed beyond her view , and then a faint moan escaped her lips . 
She met the anxious gaze of her friend , and replied to its silent questioning : `` Forgive what doubtless seems a great weakness . 
Her deep blue eyes rested on his face , and touchingly sad was the expression , as she swept back the clustering hair from her brow . 
The lips quivered , as of late they often did when she was excited . 
Florence did not hear her words , for she had crossed the street ; but Frank 's heart throbbed violently as he listened to her low , sad tone . 
A shudder crept over the strong man as he looked down at the calm , colorless face of her who spoke so quietly of death , and of quitting forever the scenes she loved so truly . 
More than a week had elapsed since leaving San Antonio , and Mary had borne better than they dared to hope the fatigue of the journey . 
To-night , however , she lay exhausted on her pallet , the thin cheek bright with fever : gently she declined all that was proffered , and her hollow cough chased the smile from the lips of her friends . 
Dr. Bryant knelt beside her , and taking one hot hand in his own , asked , in a low anxious voice , if she suffered . 
Turning away her face , she said -- `` Oh no , not much . 
she continued . 
And she turned away , and wearily closed her eyes . 
When the camp-fire burned low , and all slumbered save Mary , who could not calm her feverish excitement , and lay wide awake , she fancied she heard steps around the tent . 
All was silent ; then again came the sound ; and raising herself , she thought she perceived some one standing near the entrance . 
thought Mary ; and quickly rising , she threw a black mantle round her , and creeping to the door of the tent , peeped cautiously out . 
The horses still seemed restless , stamping and snorting , and she thought she could softly reach the adjoining tent and rouse the gentlemen , knowing that their arms were in readiness . 
She had just stepped out of her own tent , and stood out of doors , when she caught a glimpse of a dark , muffled figure walking toward her The rain had ceased , but it was very dark , and only by the aid of the fire-light , now grown dim , she perceived it . 
A cold shudder crept over her , as , raising her eyes to the blackened sky but an instant , she sprung forward toward the place where she fancied the gentlemen were sleeping . 
A hand was laid on her arm , and a deep voice sounded in her ear : `` Be not alarmed , Miss Mary , I am here ! '' 
She trembled so that she could scarcely stand . 
He supported her a moment , ere she replied in a whisper -- `` What causes the disturbance to-night ? '' 
He led her to the tent , and seating himself near the door , continued : `` I shall not sleep to-night , and rest assured you will be most carefully guarded . 
He sighed heavily as he spoke , and rising , renewed the fire . 
Mary lay watching him as he paced to and fro in front of the burning logs -- his arms folded across his chest , and his cap drawn over the brow : gradually a sense of utter weariness stole over her , and she slept . 
When Mary came out , her pale face and wearied look attracted Mrs. Carlton 's attention . 
`` Not so soundly as I could have wished , '' she said , passing her hand over her brow , as if to remove some painful thought . 
`` Unfortunately , angels never appear in the form of a lady , Elliot ; so you must tax your ingenuity to dispose of me in a different manner , '' said Mary , smiling gently on the noble boy beside her . 
Dr. Bryant 's cheek flushed , and he glanced quickly at Mary . 
Mary drew the child to her , and whispered in his ear : `` Your uncle meant that I should soon be in Heaven , Elliot ; and I hope it will not be very long before I am an angel . 
None heard what passed between them ; but Mrs. Carlton saw a look of pain on Mary 's pure white brow , and gently drawing her son away , changed the conversation by asking if it would not be better for Mary to ride awhile in the wagon . 
Mary 's lip quivered with internal pain , but she offered no further opposition . 
Dr. Bryant stood arranging Florence 's bridle , and bantering her on her inattention to the reins . 
She laughed in her turn . 
and she rode off to join Mr. Carlton . 
Mr. Carlton had placed Mary in the wagon , and carefully arranged her shawls that she might rest easily . 
He glanced over his shoulder at the frail form nearly buried beneath the weight of shawls and cloaks wrapt about her . 
She smiled , and laid her head on her arm : as she did so , he , looking at her , failed to perceive a large stone in the track , and the wheels passing directly over it caused the wagon to jolt most unmercifully . 
Florence was just in the rear , and , unable to control her mirth , laughed outright as Frank and Mary bounced up and down ; and , riding up to them , merrily asked `` if Mary duly appreciated her good fortune in having so careful and scientific a driver ? '' 
Not a little amused , yet scarce able to laugh , the latter replied that `` she did indeed congratulate herself on the change of drivers , as she would not have survived the day had it been otherwise . '' 
`` I am very sure you will adduce every possible reason in your own favor , sir , and therefore feel no sympathy for your carelessness , '' she retorted . 
Pray , Mary , why wrap up so closely ? 
I should beg pardon for such a waste of time and talk , if I were not aware that As Mary made no reply , he turned around and regarded her earnestly . 
Her hat had fallen back from the face , which rested on his black cloak . 
Dr. Bryant bent his head upon his breast , and murmured in saddened tones : `` Oh , Mary ! 
Mary ! 
The wagon in which Dr. Bryant and Mary rode was rather in the rear of the party , as the riders pressed anxiously forward . 
`` I am very much afraid you will take cold : '' and Dr. Bryant wrapped his cloak carefully about her . 
`` Thank you : '' and she sank back in its heavy folds , and looked up to the brilliant firmament , where the stars glittered , like diamonds on a ground of black velvet , in the clear , frosty air . 
And how comforting the promise conveyed , '' said Mary , earnestly . 
said Dr. Bryant , wishing to turn the current of her thoughts . 
Florence , declaring she was too much fatigued for supper , threw herself on her pallet . 
Aunt Lizzy and Mrs. Carlton were busily unpacking some of their utensils , and Mary , closely wrapt up , stood by the blazing logs , thinking how cheerful its ruddy light made every object seem , and wondering if , after all , the Ghebers were so much to blame . 
Mr. Carlton joined her ; and after inquiring how she bore their very fatiguing ride , remarked that in a few more days their journeyings would be over . 
Just then the sound of approaching hoofs caused her to look toward their wagon ; and she perceived two men mounted , one in the act of descending , while Dr. Bryant advanced quickly to meet him . 
Mr. Carlton left her . 
Silently she looked on , wondering who the strangers could possibly be , when the words fell with startling distinctness on her listening ear : `` Dudley Stewart ! 
She trembled from head to foot as the past rose before her . 
Her first thought was of Florence . 
and her heart throbbed violently as the gentlemen approached her . 
Scarce conscious of her movements , she advanced to meet Dr. Bryant , whose arm was linked in that of the new comer . 
`` Mary Irving ! 
She lifted her eyes and met Dr. Bryant 's gaze , deep and piercing , as though he were reading her inmost soul . 
`` Frank , you did not tell me she was with you ! 
and his fingers clutched her mourning gown , while his deep tone faltered . 
Mary drew closer to his side , and murmured : `` Florry is well ; but my uncle has been taken from us . '' 
Her head sunk on her bosom as she spoke . 
and he tightly clasped her hand between his own . 
`` Yes ; and ere you make yourself known , let me in some degree prepare her for the meeting . '' 
So saying , she sought Florence , and asked if she were sleeping . 
`` No , Mary ; can I do any thing for you ? '' 
and she raised her head . 
Her cousin accompanied her to the door , and standing so that the tent intervened between them and Mr. Stewart , Mary laid her hand on Florence 's shoulder , and said : `` I have just learned , Florry , that Mr. Stewart is not married . '' 
`` Mary , Mary ! 
Mary linked her arm in Florence 's , and gently drawing her forward , replied : `` God has not promised heaven as the price of every earthly joy and comfort . 
`` Mary , I am parted forever from him whom I have loved so devotedly ; yet I cease to repine . 
She turned quickly , and was clasped to the heart of him she had sworn to love alone . 
said Florence , gazing eagerly up into the noble face before her . 
A gleam of perfect joy irradiated her beautiful face , and , leaning her head on his shoulder , she whispered : `` Forgive me -- for I doubted you . '' 
He bent , and sealed her pardon with a long kiss . 
Mary stole away to Mrs. Carlton to impart the good news ; Dr. Bryant had already communicated it . 
Warmly she sympathized with them in again meeting an old friend ; but Mary heeded not her words , for her eyes were riveted on Frank 's stern brow and slightly curling lip . 
A mist rose before her , and catching for support at the tent , she would have fallen , had not his strong arm encircled her ; and soon she lay motionless in her tent . 
He stood and looked on her a moment , then knelt and clasped the cold hands . 
Mary had not swooned , though well-nigh insensible , and a low moan of anguish escaped her lips , colorless , and writhing with pain . 
He left her , and met the lovers as they sought the remainder of the party . 
He understood at a glance the position of affairs , and with the sad conviction that Mary loved Mr. Stewart , and loved him in vain , he strove to repress his emotion and appear as usual . 
Florence withdrew her hand from Mr. Stewart 's clasp , and , with a deep blush , passed Frank in order to reach the tent . 
But he persisted , and she was forced to form one of the circle that now gathered round the fire . 
`` One would suppose , from the fear of ennui which seems to cloud your future , that Mary and I had not succeeded so happily as we imagined , in our efforts to entertain you . '' 
Mary heard from her couch of suffering the cheerful blending of voices , though nothing distinct reached her ear ; and as none approached to soothe her by affectionate inquiries , a sense of neglect stole over her . 
She knelt on her pallet , and clasping her thin hands , raised her heart to God , in the low , feeble tone of one well-nigh spent : `` My God , thou readest my heart ! 
She sank back in very weariness . 
All the party , save Mary , stood about the fire , warming their fingers and chatting on the various occurrences of their long journey . 
All paused to welcome the invalid , as she joined them with a slow , feeble step ; yet she looked better than she had done since leaving her home . 
Restlessly she had tossed on her hard couch , and now the hectic flush mantled the thin cheek and brightened the deep blue eyes . 
The warm congratulations of her friends on her improved appearance brought a sad smile to her lip , and the expression of Dr. Bryant 's countenance told her that he at least realized her danger . 
Never had Florence looked more beautiful , as the clear cold air brought the glow to her cheek , added to the effect of her mourning dress and the expression of quiet happiness , imparting an indescribable charm to her lovely features . 
`` As you now stand , Miss Florence , looking so earnestly toward the east , you seem to me a perfect realization of Willis 's Jeptha 's Daughter : As he looked upon her , these lines were uttered half unconsciously ; and then turning to Mary , he gently asked if he might speak what was passing in his mind . 
Mary cast a longing glance toward her horse , now mounted by one of the servants , and was taking her seat in the wagon , when Dr. Bryant said : `` Would you like to try your horse a little while this morning ? 
He fixed his dark eyes mourfully on her face : she could not meet his gaze , and her head sunk upon her bosom . 
A month ago , I would willingly have recalled them , but they are lost in the ocean of eternity , only to be remembered now as a changing , feverish dream , '' Mary replied . 
A look of unutterable peace and joy settled on the face of Mary as she finished speaking and sank back , her hands clasped , and her eyes raised as though in communion with the spirits above . 
Dr. Bryant 's eyes rested with a sort of fascination on her countenance . 
Mary pressed her hand to her side , and leaning back , closed her eyes , as if longing for rest . 
He carefully arranged her shawls , and as she lay a long while with closed eyes , he thought her sleeping , but turning , after a time , was surprised to perceive her gazing earnestly out on the beautiful country through which they now rode . 
But a bright fire soon blazed in the broad , deep , old-fashioned chimney -- the windows and doors closed -- their small stock of furniture and provisions unpacked , and a couch prepared for Mary , now far too feeble to sit up . 
The servant disturbed his reverie by requesting room for her cooking utensils . 
He raised his head as she spoke , and then , as if utterly unconscious , dropped it again , without reply . 
Florence approached her cousin , and bending over the wasted form , asked if she were not already better . 
Mary lifted her arms to her cousin 's neck , and for a moment strove to press her to her heart , but strength had failed rapidly of late , and they sank wearily by her side . 
`` Yes , Mary , I am very happy -- happier than I ever was before ; and far more so than I deserve . 
Mary , how miserable I have been ; and it is by contrast that the transition is so delightful . 
Oh , Mary ! 
Mary , Mary , how can I tell Mr. Stewart this ? 
Mary , forgive me ! 
Mary clasped Florence 's hands in hers , and though too feeble to speak very audibly , replied : `` Florry , think not of the past ; it has been very painful to us both , yet I thank God that you are right at last . 
She sank back , as if exhausted by her effort in speaking so long , yet firmly retained Florence 's hand . 
`` Mary , if I do this , it is at the risk of losing his esteem , which I prize even more than his love . 
Mournfully Mary regarded her beautiful cousin . 
The entrance of Aunt Lizzy and Mrs. Carlton prevented further conversation , and unclasping Mary 's fingers , Florence disengaged her hand and left the room . 
Two days passed in furnishing and arranging their new home , and Mary saw but little of her cousin . 
As evening closed in again , the invalid watched from her couch the countenance of Mr. Stewart , as he sat earnestly conversing with her aunt . 
`` But for Mary , she would have been the same : '' and a bitter look passed over her wrinkled face . 
`` Were it not for Mary 's influence , Florence would even now rest in the bosom of our Holy Church . 
She has done her cousin a grievous wrong ; may God and the blessed Virgin forgive her ! '' 
Mary groaned in spirit , as she marked the stern glance of his eagle eye , and feebly raising herself , she said : `` Mr. Stewart , will you take this seat beside the sofa ? 
Aunt Lizzy left the room hurriedly , as though she had already said too much , and silently he complied with Mary 's request . 
She started on seeing her lover , but advanced to them much as usual . 
He raised his head , and cold and stern was the glance he bent on her beautiful face . 
She stood beside him , and rising , he placed a chair for her in perfect silence . 
Mary 's heart ached , as she noted the marble paleness which overspread her cousin 's cheek . 
Mournfully Florence looked for a moment on Mary 's face , yet there was no reproach in her glance ; it seemed but to say -- `` You have wakened me from my dream of happiness . '' 
She lifted proudly her head , and fixed her dark eye full on her lover . 
Mr. Stewart regarded her sadly as she uttered these words , and his stern tone softened as he noticed her bloodless cheek and quivering lip . 
He turned from her , and paced to and fro before the fire . 
Florence would have left the room , but Mary clasped her dress , and detained her . 
`` Mary , if she had said , Dudley , I have not always felt as now , and my mind was darkened for a time , I should have loved her , if possible , more than before , for her noble candor . 
My own heart would have told me , This is one in whom you may eternally trust , for she risked the forfeiture of your love in order that truth might be unsullied . 
How can I confide in one who values the esteem of man more than the approval of her own conscience ? 
You have said her love was a palliation . 
No , you are wrong ; it is an aggravation of her fault . 
She should have loved me too well to suffer me to discover by chance what should have been disclosed in confidence . 
Mary , her love is not greater than mine . 
None know how I have cherished her memory -- how I have kept her loved image in my heart during our long separation . 
I would give every earthly joy or possession to retain her affection , for it is dearer to me than every thing beside , save truth , candor , and honesty . 
I have nothing to conceal from her : I would willingly bare my secret soul to her scrutiny . 
He paused by her side , and looked tenderly on the pale , yet lovely face of Florence . 
`` Mr. Stewart , shall one fault forever destroy your confidence in Florry , when she has declared that had she thought it incumbent on her to speak of these things -- if she had felt as you do , she asserts that nothing could have prevented her revealing every circumstance . '' 
`` Mary , I fear her code of morality is somewhat too lax ; and the fact that she acknowledges no fault is far more painful than any other circumstance . '' 
`` Mary , I have omitted one thing which I wish him to know . 
She disengaged her dress from Mary 's clasp , and turned toward the door . 
Mr. Stewart caught her hand , and firmly held it . 
She struggled not to release herself , but lifted her dark eyes to his , and calmly met his earnest glance . 
Her lip quivered , still her eyes fell not beneath his , piercing as an eagle 's . 
`` Mr. Stewart , you have wronged her ; you have been too severe . '' 
And Mary clasped his hand tightly , and looked up appealingly . 
Her voice , despite her efforts , faltered . 
He drew her to him as he spoke , and passing his arm round her , pressed her to his heart . 
A long time Florence hid her head on his shoulder , as if struggling with her emotion , and then a heavy sob relieved her troubled heart . 
Closer he clasped her to him , and , laying his cheek on hers , murmured : `` My own darling Florence , forgive me , if I misjudged you ; tell me that you will not remember my words -- that this hour shall be to us as a painful dream . '' 
She withdrew from his embrace , and , lifting her head , replied : `` I was wrong to doubt your love , or believe that you would think long of my weakness ; but I am innocent of the charge of dissimulation , and never let us recur to the past . '' 
She held out her hand , and clasping it in his , Mr. Stewart led her away . 
An hour later Mary lay with closed eyes , too weary , from overexcitement , even to look about her . 
With noiseless step Dr. Bryant entered , and seating himself in the vacant chair , near Mary 's sofa , bent forward that he might look on the wan face of the sufferer . 
and he laid the hand back , as she strove to withdraw it . 
For a moment Mary closed her eyes , then replied in a low voice : `` If you should see Inez , tell her to remember my gift at parting , and thank her , in my name , for her many , many kindnesses . '' 
She paused , as if gathering courage to say something more . 
Her breathing grew short , and large drops stood on her pure , beautiful brow . 
He had bent his head upon his bosom while she spoke , but now he raised it , and , taking her hand , clasped it warmly . 
`` Mary , Mary , if you knew what torture you inflicted , you would spare me this ! '' 
It was the first time he had called her Mary , and her pale lip quivered . 
Bending forward , he continued , in a tone of touching sadness -- `` I had determined , Mary , to keep my grief locked in my own heart , and never to let words of love pass my lips . 
Mary , have you not seen for weeks and months how I have loved you ? 
Mary , your words fill me with inexpressible anguish ! 
As she listened to this confession , which a month before would have brought the glow to her cheek and sparkle to her eye , she felt that it came too late ; still a perfect joy stole into her heart . 
She turned her face toward him , and gently said : `` I am dying ; and , feeling as I do , that few hours are allotted me , I shall not hesitate to speek freely and candidly . 
`` Mary , can it be possible that you have loved me , when I fancied , of late , that indifference , and even dislike , nestled in your heart ? 
Too feeble to speak more , she closed her eyes , while her breathing grew painfully short . 
Dr. Bryant bent forward , and gently lifting her head , supported her with his strong arm , and stroked off from her beautiful brow the clustering hair . 
A long time she lay motionless , with closed eyes , and bending his head , he pressed a long kiss on the delicately-chiseled lips . 
spare me my gentle angel Mary , '' he murmured , as looking on the wan , yet lovely face , he felt that to yield her up was more than he could bear . 
At this moment Mrs. Carlton entered : he held out his hand , and drawing her to his side , said , in a deep , tender tone : `` She is mine now , sister ; thank God , that at last I have won her , and pray with me that she may be spared to us both . '' 
`` She is wearied , and just fallen asleep ; do not wake her . '' 
`` No , no ; I will not leave her a moment . 
Sincemorning , Mary had lain in the deep , dreamless sleep of exhaustion : and now the leafless boughs , which waved to and fro before her window , threw long shadows athwart the wall and across the deserted yard . 
Mary opened her eyes and looked silently on the sad group which clustered around her couch . 
Mr. Stewart , alone able to command his voice , asked if she was not better , as she had slept so gently . 
`` All is well , Mr. Stewart -- I have no pain ; '' and her eye again rested on Florence . 
Feebly she extended her hand . 
Her cousin knelt beside her , and buried her face in her hands . 
Mary laid hers on the bowed head . 
She held out her hand to Mr. Stewart , who stood beside her : he clasped it in his . 
`` We will comfort and guide each other , dear Mary , and oh ! 
Mary lifted her arms feebly , and they clasped each other in a long , last embrace . 
`` Mary , my angel cousin , I can not give you up . 
Gently Dr. Bryant took Florence from her cousin , and then each in turn , Mrs. Carlton and Aunt Lizzy , bent over her ; as the latter turned away , Mary took her hand , and drawing her down , murmured : `` My dear aunt , forgive what may have pained you in my past life . 
Dr. Bryant elevated her pillow that she might rest more easily . 
She lifted her eyes to his pale face . 
He moved it to the west window , and drew aside the curtain that the golden beams might enter : she could not look out , for the sofa was low , and sitting down beside her , he passed his arm around her , and lifted her head to his bosom . 
For a time she looked out on the brilliant hues of the setting sun , now just visible above the tree tops . 
Slowly it sank , then disappeared forever to her vision . 
Once Dr. Bryant had seen her lips move , as in prayer ; now the deep blue eyes were again raised to the loved face bending over her . 
`` Mary , it is a terrible trial to yield you up , when I looked forward so joyously to the future . 
Oh , Mary , you know not the bitterness of this hour ; yet I can say God 's will be done , for I have conquered my own heart , but every earthly joy and hope has passed away . 
Wearily she turned her face toward his ; he clasped the wasted form tightly to his heart , and kissed the pale lips ; her fingers clasped his hand gently , and she whispered , `` Good-by ! '' 
`` Good-by , my darling Mary ! 
Again he pressed his lips to hers , and then rested her head more easily upon his arm . 
The eyes closed , and those who stood watching her low , irregular breathing , fancied she slept again . 
One arm was around her , while the other supported the drooping head . 
Her beautiful brown hair fell over his arm , and left exposed the colorless face . 
She was wasted , yet beautiful in its perfect peace and joy was the expression which rested on her features . 
Dr. Bryant , leaning his noble brow on hers , felt her spirit pass away in the last sigh which escaped her lips . 
Cold as marble grew the white fingers which lingered in his , still he clasped her tightly . 
He lifted the hair from his arm , and gently drew his hand from hers ; yet , save for the icy coldness of her brow , none would have known that the soul which lent such gentle loveliness to the countenance had flown home to God . 
Dr. Bryant pressed a last kiss on the closed eyes and marble brow , softly laid her on her pillow , and left the room . 
No violent bursts of grief had followed Mary 's death , for so peaceful and painless was her end , it was scarce allowable . 
Yet now that she had been consigned to the quiet grave , a dreary sense of loneliness and desolation crept to the hearts of the saddened group . 
she sadly answered , while her tears gushed anew ; `` he has gone by his Mary 's grave . '' 
On that hour , spent at the early tomb of the `` loved and lost '' Mary , we will not intrude : it is rendered sacred by its deep , unutterable anguish . 
When I parted from the blue-eyed , sainted Mary , she gave me this book , and asked me not only to read but follow its teachings . 
She clasped my hand , and told me to remember God , and the eternity which awaited me , and the judgment of that other , final world . 
Mary 's Bible tells me ` to keep holy the Sabbath day . ' 
But I saw Mary -- pure angel that she is -- I saw her with the sick and the dying : she railed not at our priest , as he at her . 
She carried her Bible to the bed of death , and told them to look to God for themselves . 
She bade them leave off saint-worship , and cling to Jesus as their only Mediator . 
Peace followed her steps , and much good she would have done , but my Padre interfered , peremptorily ordered all good Papists to shun her as they would an incarnate demon , and frightened many into submission with his marvelous tales and threats of purgatory . 
I said to myself , if there be truth in God and religion , this Mary walketh in the right path , for like an angel of mercy and light she ever seems . 
She was the hope , the joy , the blessing of all who knew her . 
I will come to you , Mary , and learn of you , and die near , that you may be with me in the hour of rest . '' 
Dr. Bryant had listened to her rambling , incoherent language , like one in a dream , till the name of Mary passed her lips , and then his head sank upon his chest , and he groaned in the anguish of his tortured spirit . 
Inez held in one hand the small Bible given at parting ; his eye fell upon it , and he stepped nearer to her : `` Inez , the Mary you have loved rests no longer on earth . 
`` Mary gone forever ! 
Mary in heaven ! 
Shall I never again see her , sweet angel of truth and purity , with her soft blue eyes , so full of holy love and gentleness ? 
Oh , Mary , thou art blessed ! 
Ere long , Mary , I , too , will sleep the last , unbroken , dreamless sleep ! '' 
You have no right to claim it : you have not loved her as I have done . 
She loved you , yet you heeded not the jewel that might have , even now , been your own ! '' 
Oh , Mary , Mary ! 
Let us both so live that we may join my Mary in glory . '' 
Mary , my own angel Mary , ever rests in my heart . 
I can not forget her -- I can never love another . 
Remember Mary 's words , and her parting gift , and I pray God that we may so live that we shall all meet in a happier home . '' 
Yet I would not keep you here -- go , and may your God ever bless you , and -- and -- may you at last meet your Mary , if there be a heaven ! 
Dr. Bryant sank without a struggle to the earth ; and his spirit , released from sorrowing mortality , sprung up to meet his Mary and his God ! 
She caught the cold hand to her lips , and laid her cheek near his mouth , that she might know and realize that his spirit had indeed joined Mary 's in the `` land of rest . '' 
The icy touch extinguished every gleam of hope , and calmly she drew the cloak over the loved face , concealing every feature , then dropped her handkerchief upon the covered head , and drawing her mantilla like a shroud about her , went her way to wait for night and darkness . 
Stretched on a couch in the home of the kind-hearted Señora who had received her , Inez noted the moments and hours as they passed . 
`` Isaac , '' said Mr. Stewart , in a low , saddened tone , `` Mary has gone to a brighter home in heaven ! 
She is happier far than she could be even here with us ! 
She died about a month ago . '' 
gentle Mary ! 
Night found Florence sitting alone in the parlor of her old and dearly loved home . 
The apartment was much as she had left it five years before , and old familiar articles of furniture greeted her on every side . 
She sat down to the piano , on which in girlhood she had practiced , and gently touched the keys . 
Again she stood there an only cherished daughter , and her father 's image , as he used to stand leaning against the mantle-piece , rose with startling distinctness before her . 
And there , too , stood her cousin , with the soft blue eyes and golden curls of her girlhood ; and she fancied she heard , once again , the clear , sweet voice , and felt the fond twining of her arms about her . 
Long forgotten circumstances in primitive freshness rushed upon her mind , and unable to bear the sad associations which crowded up , Florence turned away from the instrument , and seating herself on the sofa , gave vent to an uncontrollable burst of sorrow -- And calmly Florence wept , not bitterly , for she had had much of sorrow to bear , and schooled her heart to meet grief and sadness . 
Yet it was hard to come back to her cherished home and miss from her side the gentle playmate of her youth , the parent she had almost idolized , and feel that she had left them in far distant resting-places . 
She heard her husband 's step along the hall , and saw him enter -- she strove to repress her tears and seem happy , but the quivering lips refused to smile . 
He sat down , and drawing his arm around her , pressed her face to his bosom , and tenderly said : `` My mother had much to say , after my long absence , and I could not leave her till this moment . 
now , for the first time , I realize that Mary has indeed gone forever . 
Mary ! 
Mary ! 
how can I look forward to the long coming years , and feel that I shall never see her again ? '' 
The past is very painful both to you and to me , and the memory of Frank and Mary constantly saddens my spirit . 
Ah , Mary , how different from you ! 
If I have higher aims in life , and purer joys , I owe it all to her , for she led me to love the law of God , and exemplified in her daily life the teachings of Christ ! 
But for her , I shudder to think what I should now have been ! 
And you , my husband , help me to conquer myself to break down my pride , and to be more like Mary . 
