Melissa , the sister of Edgar , was about sixteen years of age . 
She was not what is esteemed a striking beauty , but her appearance was pleasingly interesting . 
Her figure was elegant ; her aspect was attempered with a pensive mildness , which in her cheerful moments would light up into sprightliness and vivacity . 
Though on first impression , her countenance was marked by a sweet and thoughtful serenity , yet she eminently possessed the power to `` Call round her laughing eyes , in playful turns , The glance that lightens , and the smile that burns . '' 
Her mind was adorned with those delicate graces which are the first ornaments of female excellence . 
Her manners were graceful without affectation , and her taste had been properly directed by a suitable education . 
Melissa was at a ball which had been given on a matrimonial occasion in the town . 
Her cousin waited on Alonzo to the ball , and introduced him to Melissa , who received him with politeness . 
She was dressed in white embroidered and spangled with rich silver Iace ; a silk girdle , enwrought and tasseled with gold , surrounded her waist ; her hair was unadorned except by a wreath of artificial flowers , studded by a single diamond . 
Melissa 's partner at the ball was the son of a gentleman of independent fortune in New-London . 
Edgar 's cousin proposed to detain Alonzo and Melissa a few days , during which time they passed in visiting select friends and social parties . 
Beauman was an assiduous attendant upon Melissa ; he came one afternoon to invite her to ride out ; she was indisposed and excused herself ; at evening she proposed walking out with her cousin and his lady . 
But they were prevented from atending her , by unexpected company . 
Alonzo offered to accompany her . 
It was one of those beautiful evenings in the month of June , when nature in those parts of America is arrayed in her richest dress . 
The moon shone in full lustre , her white beams trembling upon the glassy main , where skiffs and sails of various description were passing and repassing . 
`` To this place -LRB- said Melissa -RRB- have I taken many a solitary walk , on such an evening as this , and seated on this rock , have I experienced more pleasing sensations than I ever received in the most splendid ball-room . '' 
Beauman handed Melissa into the carriage , and he , with Edgar 's cousin and his lady , attended them on their first day 's journey . 
The next morning they parted ; Melissa 's cousin , his lady and Beauman returned to New London ; Alonzo and Melissa pursued their journey , and at evening arrived at her father 's house , which was in the westerly part of the state . 
Melissa was received with joyful tenderness by her friends . 
He had no other children except Edgar and Melissa , on whom he doated . 
The former repaired to New-York , where he was to enter upon his professional studies , The latter entered in the office of an eminent attorney in his native town , which was about twenty miles distant from the village in which lived the family of Edgar and Melissa . 
Beauman had become the suitor of Melissa ; but the distance of residence rendered it inconvenient to visit her often . 
`` It is not probable therefore , that he will be objectionable to Melissa 's friends , or to Melissa herself , '' said Alonzo , with an involuntary sigh . 
But as Beauman 's visits to Melissa became more frequent , an increasing anxiety took place in Alonzo 's bosom . 
He wished her to remain single ; the idea of losing her by marriage , gave him inexpressible regret . 
What substitute could supply the happy hours he had passed in her company ? 
What charm could wing the lingering moments when she was gone ? 
In the recess of his studies , he could , in a few hours , be at the seat of her father -- There his cares were dissipated and the troubles of life , real or imaginary , on light pinions fleeted away . 
How different would be the scene when debarred from the unreserved friendship and conversation of Melissa ! 
And unreserved it could not be , were she not exclusively mistress of herself . 
But was there not something of a more refined texture than friendship in his predilection for the company of Melissa ? 
But perhaps Beauman was prefered -- His opportunities had been greater -- He had formed an acquaintance with her . 
Was it not then highly probable that he had secured her affections ? 
He ordered his horse and was in a short time at the seat of Melissa 's father . 
It was summer , and towards evening when he arrived , Melissa was sitting by the window when he entered the hall . 
She arose and received him with a smile . 
`` I have just been thinking of an evening 's walk , -LRB- said she -RRB- but had no one to attend me , and you have come just in time to perform that office . 
When tea was served up a servant entered the room with a letter which he had found in the yard Melissa received it . 
-- `` 'T is a letter -LRB- said she -RRB- which I sent by Beauman , to a lady in New-London , and the careless man has lost it . '' 
enquired Melissa . 
He requested us to present his respect to his friend Alonzo , '' said she -- Alonzo bowed and turned the conversation . 
`` This is a most beautiful scene , '' said Melissa . 
Melissa -- No -- yes indeed I can hardly say . 
Melissa . 
Melissa . 
Alonzo , coming up the sound ; how she ploughs through the white foam , while the breezes flutter among the sails , varying with the beams of the sun . 
The beauties of the landscape slowly receded `` This reminds me of our walk at New-London , '' said Melissa Do you remember it ? 
enquired Alonzo -- certainly I do -LRB- she replied -RRB- I shall never forget the sweet pensive scenery of my favorite rock . 
The next day Alonzo returned to his studies ; but different from his former visits to Melissa , instead of exhilarating his spirits , this had tended to depress them . 
He doubted whether Melissa was not already engaged to Beauman His hopes would persuade him that this was not the case ; but his fears declared otherwise . 
In the interim he received a letter from a friend in the neighbourhood of Melissa 's father ; an extract from which , follows : `` We are soon to have a wedding here ; you are acquainted with the parties -- Melissa D. -- and Beauman . 
`` I shall never be a guest at Melissa 's wedding , '' said Alonzo as he hastily passed the room , `` but I must once again see her before that event takes place , when I lose her forever . '' 
The next day he repaired to her father 's . 
He enquired for Melissa she was gone with a party to the shores of the sound attended by Beauman . 
`` You have deceived us , Alonzo -LRB- said Melissa -RRB- -- We concluded you had forgotten the road to this place . '' 
He thanked her for her condescension . 
The next morning Beauman set out for New-London ; Alonzo observed that he took a tender leave of Melissa , telling her in a low voice that he should have the happiness of seeing her again within two or three weeks . 
After he was gone , as Melissa and Alonzo were sitting in a room alone , `` well , sir , -LRB- said she -RRB- am I to hear your excuses ? 
Melissa . 
Would my presence have added to your felicities , Melissa ? 
Melissa was silent . 
You hesitate , Melissa . 
She was still silent . 
Will you , Melissa , answer me one question ? 
-LSB- deeply blushing , her eyes cast upon the floor -RSB- He has made the same enquiry respecting you . 
Al. -LSB- Taking her hand with anxiety -RSB- Melissa , I beg you will deal candidly . 
-LSB- Her cheeks suffused with a varying glow , her lips pale , her voice tremulous , her eyes still cast down . -RSB- 
But -- -LSB- she hesitated . -RSB- 
Melissa had recovered in some degree from her embarrassment , and collected her scattered spirits . 
Four weeks , then , -LSB- she said -RSB- from this day , honor me with a visit , and you shall have my decision , and receive my final answer . '' 
`` I will be punctual to the day , '' he replied , and bade her adieu . 
He looked anxiously to the hour when Melissa was to make her decision . 
He had pressed Melissa , perhaps too urgently , to a declaration . 
Had her predilection been in his favor , would she have hesitated to avow it ? 
Her parents had advised her to relinquish and had permitted her to retain one suitor , nor had they attempted to influence or direct her choice . 
Was it not evident , then , from her confused hesitation and embarrassment , when solicited to discriminate upon the subject , that her ultimate decision would be in favor of Beauman ? 
While Alonzo 's mind was thus agitated , he received a second letter from his friend in the neighborhood of Melissa . 
He read the following clause therein with emotion more easily to be conceived than expressed : -- `` Melissa 's wedding day is appointed . 
I have had , it is true , no positive assurance that Melissa would favor my addresses . 
But why did she ever recieve them ? 
Why did she enchantingly smile upon me ? 
Why fascinate the tender powers of my soul by that winning mildness , and the favorable display of those complicated and superior attractions which she must have known were irresistible ? 
Why did she not spurn me from her confidence , and plainly tell me that my attentions were untimely and improper ? 
-- And now she would have me dance attendance to her decision , in favor of Beauman -- Insulting ! 
-- Let Beauman and she make , as they have formed , this farcical decision ; I absolutely will never attend it . 
-- But stop : -- I have engaged to see her at an appointed time ; my honor is therefore pledged for an interview ; it must take place . 
I shall support it with becoming dignity , and I will convince Melissa and Beauman that I am not the dupe of their caprices . 
But let me consider -- What has Melissa done to deserve consure or reproach ? 
Her brother was my early friend -- she has treated me as a friend to her brother She was unconscious of the flame which her charms had kindled in my bosom . 
Her evident embarrassment and confusion on receiving my declaration , witnessed her surprise and prior attachment . 
What could she do ? 
To save herself the pain of a direct denial she has appointed a day when her refusal may come in a more delicate and formal manner -- and I must meet it . '' 
At the appointed day , Alonzo proceeded to the house of Melissa 's father , where he arrived late in the afternoon . 
Melissa had retired to a little summer house at the end of the garden ; a servant conducted Alonzo thither . 
She was dressed in a flowing robe of white muslin , embroidered with a deep fringe lace . 
Her hair hung loosely upon her shoulders -- she was contemplating a bouquet of flowers which she held in her hand . 
Alonzo fancied she never appeared so lovely . 
She arose to receive him . 
`` We have been expecting you some time , -LSB- said Melissa , -RSB- we were anxious to inform you , that we have just received a letter from my brother , in which he desires us to present you his most friendly respects , and complains of your not writing to him lately so frequently as usual . '' 
Alonzo thanked her for the information -- said that business had prevented him -- he esteemed him as his most valued friend , and would be more particular in future . 
`` We have been thronged with company for several days , -LSB- said Melissa -RSB- -- once a year my father celebrates his birth day , when we are honored with so numerous a company of uncles , aunts , cousins , nephews and nieces , that were you present , you would suppose we were connected with half the families in Connecticut . 
He assured her he accepted the invitation with pleasure , and towards evening they resorted to the place and seated themselves in the arbor . 
-- `` The scene is changed since we last visited this place , -LSB- said Melissa ;] the gay charms of summer are beginning to decay , and must soon yield their splendors to the rude despoiling hand of winter . '' 
I know , Melissa , that you are incapable of duplicity or evasion . 
You see , Melissa , I am prepared for the event . 
-LRB- She was silent . -RRB- 
Alonzo and Melissa moved slowly to the village ; she appeared enraptured with the melancholy splendors of the evening , but the other subject engaged the mental attention of Alonzo . 
There was no alteration in the manners and conversation of Melissa ; her conversation as usual , was sprightly and interesting . 
After dinner she retired , and her father requested Alonzo and Beauman to withdraw with him to a private room . 
You are both suitors to Melissa ; while your addresses were merely formal , they were innocent ; but when they become serious they were dangerous . 
Her father then observed -- `` This , gentlemen , is all I require . 
The declaration of Melissa 's father burst upon the mental powers of Beauman , like a sudden and tremendous clap of thunder on the deep and solemn silence of night . 
Melissa was the first whose charms were capable of rendering them sincere . 
He was not ignorant of Alonzo 's attention to her ; it gave him however but little uneasiness . 
He had frankly offered his hand to Melissa , and pressed her for a decisive answer . 
This from time to time she suspended , and finally appointed a day to give him and Alonzo a determinate answer , though neither knew the arrangements made with the other . 
Finding , however , the dilemma in which she was placed , she had previously consulted her parents . 
Her father had no objection to her choosing between two persons of equal claims to affluence and reputation ; this choice she had made , and her father was considered the most proper person to pronounce it . 
When Beauman had urged his suit to Melissa , he supposed that her hesitations , delays and suspensions , were only the effects of maiden diffidence and timidity He had no suspicions of her ultimately rejecting it ; and when she finally named the day of decision , he was confident she would decide in his favor . 
These sentiments he had communicated to the person who had written to Alonzo , intimating that Melissa had fixed a time which was to crown his happiest wishes . 
He had listened , therefore , attentively to the words of Melissa 's father , momentarily expecting to hear himself declared the favorite choice of the fair . 
He believed that Beauman would be the choice of Melissa . 
She had told him that the form of decision was necessary to save appearances -- with this form he complied , because she desired it , not because he expected the result would be in his favor . 
He had not therefore attended to the words of Melissa 's father with that eagerness which favorable anticipations commonly produce . 
But when his name was mentioned -- when he found he was the choice -- the happy favorite of Melissa 's affection -- every tender passion of his soul became interested , and was suddenly aroused to the refinements of sensibility . 
Melissa 's father retired immediately after pronouncing the declaration ; the two young gentlemen , also , soon after withdrew . 
He framed a thousand excuses to visit Melissa , yet he feared a visit might be premature . 
He was , however , necessitated to make a journey to a distant part of the country , after which he resolved to see Melissa . 
-- In a moment he discovered that it was Melissa . 
Melissa , however , arose , and in rather a confused manner , introduced Alonzo , as the classmate of her brother , to the family of Mr. Simpson , and the company . 
Melissa told Alonzo that Mr. Simpson was a distant relative of her father ; his family consisted of his wife , two amiable daughters , not far from Melissa 's age , and one son , named William , about seventeen years old . 
She had been invited there to pass a week and expected to return within two days . 
And she added , smiling , perhaps , Alonzo , we may have an opportunity once more to visit the bower on my prospect hill , before winter entirely destroys the remaining beauties of the summer '' Alonzo felt all the force of the remark . 
He recollected the conversation when they were last at the place she mentioned ; and he well remembered his feelings on that occasion . 
`` Great changes , indeed , -LRB- he replied -RRB- have taken place since we were last there ; that they are productive of unexpected and unexampled happiness to me , is due , Melissa , to you alone . '' 
-- Alonzo departed the next morning , appointing the next week to visit Melissa at her father 's house . 
Thus were the obstacles removed which presented a barrier to the united wishes of Alonzo and Melissa . 
All the time that Alonzo could spare from his studies was devoted to Melissa , and their parents began to calculate on joining their hands as soon as Alonzo 's professional term of study was completed . 
They were not calculated to impress the mind of Melissa with the most pleasing sensations . 
She foresaw that the burden of the war must rest on the American youth , and she trembled in anticipation for the fate of Alonzo . 
Alonzo and she frequently discoursed , and they agreed to form the mystic union previous to any wide separation . 
He considered that he could not long remain a mere spectator of the contest , and that it might soon be his duty to take the field ; he therefore concluded it best to hasten his marriage with Melissa . 
She consented to the proposition , and their parents made the necessary arrangements for the event . 
Such was the place for the residence of Alonzo and Melissa . 
`` Here , -LRB- said Alonzo , one day to Melissa -RRB- will we pass our days in all that felicity of mind which the chequered scenes of life admit . 
The bright gems of joy glistened in the eyes of Melissa . 
With Alonzo she anticipated approaching happiness , and her bosom beat in rapturous unison . 
The day now rapidly approached when Alonzo was to make Melissa his own . 
Edgar , the brother of Melissa , had entered the army in the capacity of chaplain . 
About three weeks previous to the appointed marriage day , Alonzo and Melissa one afternoon rode out to the village which had been chosen for their future residence . 
Alonzo attended Melissa to her father 's , and the next day returned home . 
After supper he asked Alonzo if it were not possible that his marriage with Melissa could be consummated within a few days . 
Alonzo , startled at so unexpected a question , replied , that such a proposal would be considered extraordinary , perhaps improper ; besides , when Melissa had fixed the day , she mentioned that she had an uncle who lived near Charleston , in South Carolina , whose daughter was to pass the summer with Melissa , and was expected to arrive before the appointed day . 
It would , he said , be a delicate point for him to request her to anticipate the nuptials , unless he could give some cogent reasons for so doing , and at present he was not apprised that any such existed . 
-- Hence I proposed your union with Melissa , before our misfortunes should be promulgated . 
Thus suddenly cut short of his prospects , not only of future independence , but even of support , what would be the event of his suit to Melissa , and stipulated marriage ? 
Was it not probable that her father would now cancel the contract ? 
Could she consent to be his wife in his present penurious situation ? 
And indeed , could he himself , consent to make her his wife , to make her miserable ? 
In this agitated frame of mind he received a letter from his friend in Melissa 's neighborhood , requesting him to come immediately to his house , whither he repaired the following day . 
`` Your family misfortunes -LRB- continued Vincent -RRB- have reached the ears of Melissa 's father . 
You must first see Melissa ; she is now in the next room ; I will introduce you in ; converse with her , after which I will lay my plan before you . '' 
Alonzo entered the room ; Melissa was sitting by a window which looked into a pleasant garden , and over verdant meadows , whose tall grass waved to the evening breeze . 
A mournfully murmuring rivulet purled at a little distance from the garden , on the borders of a small grove , from whence the American wild dove wafted her sympathetic moaning to the ear of Melissa . 
She sat leaning on a small table by the window , which was thrown up . 
Her attention was fixed . 
She did not perceive Vincent and Alonzo as they entered . 
With a melancholy smile , and tremulous voice , `` I supposed -LRB- she said -RRB- that it was Mrs. Vincent who was approaching , as she has just left the room . '' 
Vincent retired and Alonzo and Melissa seated themselves by the window . 
-- `` Your presence was sudden and unexpected , but not unseasonable , -LRB- replied Melissa . -RRB- 
You have heard of the misfortunes of my father 's family , Melissa ? 
Melissa . 
Soon after we received the intelligence of your family misfortunes , my father came into the room where I was sitting , ` Melissa , -LRB- said he -RRB- your conduct has ever been that of a dutiful child ; mine of an indulgent parent . 
It is difficult to determine , -LRB- replied Melissa -RRB- Should my father expressly forbid our union , he will go all lengths to carry his commands into effect . 
Melissa now prepared to return home ; a whipperwill tuned its nightly song at a little distance ; but the sound , late so cheerful and sprightly , now passed heavily over their hearts . 
`` No sooner -LRB- said he -RRB- was I informed of your misfortunes , than I was convinced that Melissa 's father would endeavor to dissolve your intended union with his daughter . 
You and Melissa are now united by the most solemn ties -- by every rite except those which are merely ceremonial . 
Mrs. Vincent has proposed the scheme to Melissa , but implicitly accustomed to filial obedience , she shudders at the idea of a clandestine marriage . 
But when her father shall proceed to rigorous measures , she will , I think , consent to the alternative . 
And this measure , once adopted , her father must consent also ; or if not , you secure your own happiness , and what you esteem more , that of Melissa . '' 
`` But you must be sensible of my inability to support her as she deserves , -LRB- replied Alonzo -RRB- even should she consent to it . '' 
Alonzo informed Vincent what had been agreed upon between Melissa and himself , respecting his visiting her on the morrow ; `` after which -LRB- he said -RRB- we will discourse further on the subject . '' 
The next day Alonzo repaired to the house of Melissa 's father . 
As he approached he saw Melissa sitting in a shady recess at one end of the garden near which the road passed . 
She was leaning with her head upon her hand , in a penaive posture ; a deep dejection was depicted upon her features , which enlivened into a transient glow as soon as she saw Alonzo . 
She arose , met him , and invited him into the house Alonzo was received with a cool reserve by all except Melissa . 
Her father saluted him with a distant and retiring bow , as he passed with Melissa to her room . 
As soon as they were seated , a maiden aunt , who had doubled her teens , out-lived many of her suitors , and who had lately come to reside with the family , entered , and seated herself by the window , alternately humming a tune , and impudently staring at Alonzo , without speaking a word , except snappishly , to contradict Melissa in any thing she advanced , which the latter passed off with only a faint smile . 
Melissa 's father entered , and requested the two ladies to withdraw , which was instantly done . 
If , therefore , you have no resources or expectation but such as these , your own judgment will teach you the necessity of immediately relinquishing all pretensions to the hand of Melissa '' -- and immediately left the room . 
Where , indeed , were the means by which Melissa was to be shielded from poverty , if connected with his fortunes . 
He arose and looked around for Melissa , but she was not to be seen . 
At a little distance he met Melissa , who had been strolling in an adjoining avenue . 
He informed her of all that had passed ; it was no more than they both expected , yet it was a shock their fortitude could scarcely sustain . 
Disappointment seldom finds her votaries prepared to receive her . 
Melissa told Alonzo , that her father 's determinations were unchangeable ; that his sister -LSB- the before mentioned maiden lady -RSB- held a considerable influence over him and dictated the concerns of the family , and that from her , there was nothing to hope in their favor . 
`` What is to be the end of these troubles -LSB- continued Melissa -RSB- it is impossible to foresee ; let us trust in the mercy of heaven and submit to its dispensations . 
Alonzo and Melissa , in their happier days had , when absent , corresponded by letters . 
-- It was agreed that Alonzo should come frequently to Vincent 's , where Melissa would meet him as she could find opportunities . 
Having concluded on this , Melissa returned home , and Alonzo to the house of his friend . 
Vincent , after Alonzo had related the manner of his reception at Melissa 's father 's , urged the plain he had projected of a private marriage . 
-- Alonzo replied that even should Melissa consent to it , which he much doubted , it must be a measure of the last resort , and adopted only when all others became fruitless . 
His own fate , unconnected with that of Melissa , he considered of little consequence . 
What was to become of Melissa , what of himself , what of his parents ! 
`` But your affair with Melissa , -LSB- asked his father -RSB- how is that likely to terminate ? '' 
He thought of Melissa , from whom he had heard nothing since he last saw her . 
He thought of the barriers which were opposed to his happiness and the felicity of Melissa , and he set out for the house of Vincent . 
Alonzo cast an active glance around the company , in hopes to find Melissa , but she was not there . 
-- `` You have come in good time , -LSB- said he -RSB- something must speedily be done , or you lose Melissa forever . 
The day after you were here , her father received a letter from Beauman , in which , after mentioning the circumstance of your father 's insolvency , he hinted that the consequence would probably be a failure of her proposed marriage with you , which might essentially injure the reputation of a lady of her standing in life ; to prevent which , and to place her beyond the reach of calumny , he offered to marry her at any appointed day , provided he had her free consent . 
He then strove to extort a promise from Melissa , that she would break off all connexion with you , see you no more , and admit the addresses of Beauman . 
`` To this she could not consent . 
She urged that by the consent of her parents she was engaged to you by the most sacred ties . 
That to her father 's will she had hitherto yielded implicit obedience , but that hastily to break the most solemn obligation formed and sanctioned by his approbation and direction , was what her conscience would not permit her to do . 
Were he to command her to live single , life might be endured ; but to give her hand to any except you , would be to perjure those principles of truth and justice which he himself had ever taught her to hold most inviolable . 
Her father grew outrageous ; charged her with disobedience , with a blind inconsiderate perverseness , by which she would bring ruin upon herself , and indelible disgrace upon her family . 
She answered only with her tears . 
Her mother interposed , and endeavored to appease his anger , but he spurned her from him , and rushed out of the room , uttering a threat that force should succeed persuasion , if his commands were not obeyed . 
To add to Melissa 's distress , Beauman arrived at her father 's yesterday ; and I hope , in some measure to alleviate it , Edgar her brother come this morning . 
-- Mrs. Vincent has dispatched a message to inform Melissa of your arrival , and to desire her to come here immediately . 
Mrs Vincent now come to the door of the room and beckoned to her husband , who went out , but immediately returned leading in Melissa after which he retired . 
`` Where is your fortitude and your firmnes -LRB- said he -RRB- Melissa , which I have so often seen triumphing over affliction ? '' 
-- `` Let us not Melissa -LRB- said he -RRB- increase our flood of affliction by a tide of useless sorrow : perhaps more prosperous days are yet in reserve for us : happiness may yet be ours -- never , never ! 
-LRB- she exclaimed -RRB- Oh what will become of me ! 
The rage of grief which had overwhelmed Melissa , began now to subside as the waves of the ocean gradually cease their tumultuous commotion , after the turbulent winds are laid asleep . 
The irritation of her feelings had caused a more than usual glow upon her cheek , which faded away as she became composed , until a livid paleness spread itself over her features . 
Alonzo feared that the delicacy of her constitution would fall a sacrifice to the sorrow which preyed upon her heart , if not speedily alleviated ; but alas , where were the means of alleviation ? 
She informed him that her father had that evening ordered her to become the wife of Beauman . 
He told her that her disobedience was no longer to be borne . 
-- But remember , that you become the wife of Beauman , or you are no longer acknowledged as my daughter '' `` Thus -LRB- said Melissa -RRB- did my father pronounce his determination , which shook my frame , and chilled with horror every nerve of my heart , and immediately left me . 
But he endeavored to mitigate her sorrows by the consolation of more cheering prospects and happier hours . 
They strenuously urged the propriety and the necessity of Alonzo and Melissa 's entering into the bands of wedlock immediately . 
`` The measure would be hazardous , '' remarked Melissa . 
`` Not on that account , -LRB- interrupted Melissa -RRB- but my father 's displeasure '' -- `` Will be the same , whether you marry Alonzo , or refuse to marry Beauman , '' replied Vincent . 
Her resolution appeared to be staggered . 
`` Come here , Melissa , to morrow evening -LRB- said Mrs. Vincent -RRB- ; mean time you will consider the matter , and then determine . '' 
-- To this Melissa assented , and prepared to return home . 
Alonzo walked with her to the gate which opened into the yard surrounding her father 's house . 
Should he be discovered with Melissa , even by a domestic of the family , it must increase the persecutions against her . 
Alonzo stood at the gate , gazing anxiously after Melissa as she walked up the long winding avenue , bordered with the odor-flowing lilac , and lofty elm , her white robes now invisible , now dimly seen , as she turned the angles of the walk , until they were totally obscured , mingling with the gloom and darkness of the night . 
`` To assuage the tempest of grief which rent Melissa 's bosom was my next object , and in this I trust I have not been unsuccessful . 
You will see her this evening , and will find her more calm and resigned . 
In the afternoon Alonzo received a note from Melissa 's father , requesting his immediate attendance Surprised at the incident , he repaired there immediately . 
The servant introduced him into a room where Melissa 's father and aunt were sitting . 
You can not wish to involve Melissa in your present penurious condition , unless you wish to make her wretched . 
Will love '' -- `` You will not , -LSB- interrupted Melissa 's father , speaking to Alonzo -RSB- it seems , consent to my proposition ? 
`` There again , -LSB- said the old maid -RSB- just so Melissa told you this morning , when you requested her to see him no more . 
The fellow has fairly betwattled her . 
`` Well , young man , -LSB- said Melissa 's father -RSB- since you will not comply with any overtures I make ; since you will not accede to any terms I propose , remember , sir , I now warn you to break off all communication and correspondence with my daughter , and to relinquish all expectations concerning her . 
But he recollected that it was the father of Melissa who had thus insulted him , and he suppressed his anger . 
He had neither heard nor seen any thing of Melissa or Beauman . 
Night came on , and he ardently and impatiently expected Melissa . 
He anticipated the consolation her presence would bestow . 
Edgar had told him she was more composed . 
He doubted whether it were proper to excite anew her distress by relating his interview with her father , unless she was apprised of it . 
The evening passed on , but Melissa came not . 
It drew near ; his heart beat in quick succession ; his fond hopes told him it was Melissa . 
It was possible , though not probable , that Melissa might have come some other way . 
In Melissa 's room no gleam of light appeared . 
Immediately a faint light appeared through one of the chamber windows ; it grew brighter , a candle entered the chamber , the sash was flung up , and Melissa seated herself at the window . 
The weather was sultry , she held a fan in her hand , her countenance , though stamped with deep dejection , was marked with serenity , but pale as the drooping lily of the valley . 
Alonzo placed himself directly under the window , and in a low voice called her by name . 
She started wildly , looked out , and faintly cried , `` who 's there ? '' 
So saying , she let down the window sash , and retired . 
You and I were rivals in our pursuit -- the hand of Melissa . 
From coincidence of circumstances , her father has now been induced to give the preference to me . 
My belief was that Melissa would comply with her father 's will , especially after her prospects of connecting with you were cut off by the events which ruined your fortune . 
Melissa , now ardently impassioned by first impressions , irritated by recent disappointment , her passions delicate and vivid , her affections animated and unmixed , it would be strange , if she could suddenly relinquish primitive attachments founded on such premises , without a struggle . 
But remove her from your presence for one year , with only distant and uncertain prospects of seeing you again , admit me as the substitute in your absence , and she accepts my hand as freely as she would now receive yours . 
I had no design -- it was never my wish to marry her without her consent . 
Then -- when cool deliberation succeeds to the wild vagaries , the electric fire of frolic fancy , she will discover the dangerous precipice , the deadly abyss to which her present conduct and inclinations lead . 
She will see that the blandishments , without the possessions of life , must fade and die . 
She will discriminate between the shreds and the trappings of taste . 
She will prefer indifference and splendor to love and a cottage . 
When Melissa , from calm deliberation and the advice of friends , shall freely consent to yield me her hand , I shall return to receive it . 
I came from my lodgings this evening to declare these intentions to her father , but it being later than I was aware of , the family had gone to rest . 
So saying , he bade Alonzo good night , and walked hastily away . 
-- `` I find he knows not the character of Melissa , '' said Alonzo , and returned to Vincent 's . 
The next day Alonzo told the Vincents of all that had passed , and it was agreed that Mrs. Vincent should visit at Melissa 's father 's that afternoon . 
She went at an early hour . 
Alonzo 's feelings were on the wreck until she returned , which happened much sooner than was expected , when she gave him and Vincent the following information : -- `` When I arrived there , '' said she , `` I found Melissa 's father and mother alone ; her mother was in tears , which she endeavored to conceal . 
Her father soon withdrew . 
After some conversation I enquired for Melissa . 
The old lady burst into tears , and informed me that this morning Melissa 's aunt -LRB- he old maid -RRB- had invited her to ride out with her . 
A carriage was provided , which , after a large trunk had been placed therein , drove off with Melissa and her aunt ; that Melissa 's father had just been informing her that he had sent their daughter to a distant part of the country , where she was to reside with a friend until Alonzo should depart from the neighborhood . 
The reason of this sudden resolution was his being informed by Beauman , that notwithstanding his precaution , Melissa and Alonzo had an interview the last evening . 
Where she was sent to , the old lady could not tell , but she was convinced that Melissa was not apprised of the design when she consented to go . 
Her aunt had heretofore been living with the relatives of the family in various parts of the state . '' 
Melissa had not , indeed , the most distant suspicion of the designs of her father and aunt . 
The latter informed her that she was going to take a morning 's ride , and invited Melissa to accompany her , to which she consented . 
She did not even perceive the trunk which was fastened on behind the carriage . 
They drope to a neighboring town where Melissa had frequently attended her father or mother , to purchase articles of dress , & c. where they alighted at a friend 's house , and lingered away the time until dinner , after which , they prepared , as Melissa supposed to return , but found , to her surprise , after they had entered the carriage , that her aunt ordered the driver to proceed a different way . 
She asked her aunt if they were not going home . 
`` Not yet , '' said she . 
Melissa grew uneasy ; she knew she was to see Mrs. Vincent that afternoon ; she knew the disappointment which Alonzo must experience , if she was absent . 
She begged her aunt to return , as she expected the company of some ladies that afternoon . 
`` Then they must be disappointed , child , '' said her aunt . 
Melissa knew it was in vain to remonstrate , she supposed her aunt was bent on visiting some of her acquaintance , and she remained silent . 
They arrived at another village , and alighted at an inn , where Melissa and her aunt tarried while the servant was ordered out by the latter on some business unknown to Melissa . 
When they again got into the carriage she perceived several large packages and bundles , which had been deposited there since they left it . 
She enquired of her aunt what they contained ; `` Articles for family use , child '' she replied , and ordered the driver to proceed . 
They alighted from the carriage , and Melissa 's aunt , handing the driver a large bunch of keys , `` remember to do as I have told you , '' said she , and he drove rapidly away . 
It was with some difficulty they got into the hut , as a meagre cow , with a long yoke on her neck , a board before her eyes , and a cross piece on her horns , stood with her head in the door . 
On one side of her were four or five half starved squeaking pigs , on the other a flock of gaggling geese . 
-LRB- she cried -RRB- here is Miss D -- , welcome here again . 
enquired Melissa 's aunt . 
`` It has n't been touch 'd since madam was here , '' answered the woman , and immediately stalked away to a little back apartment which Melissa and her aunt entered . 
This appendage had been concealed from Melissa 's view , as it was the opposite side of the house from whence she alighted . 
asked Melissa 's aunt . 
`` My husband is in the garden , -LRB- replied the woman -RRB- I will call him , '' and out she scampered . 
Melissa could not understand her aunt 's reply , but heard her give directions to `` first hang on the tea kettle . '' 
Melissa 's aunt prepared tea in her own room . 
In about an hour John and his wife returned , and gave the same bunch of keys to Melissa 's aunt , which she had given to the servant who drove the carriage . 
Melissa was involved in inscrutable mystery respecting these extraordinary proceedings . 
She conjectured that they boded her no good , but she could not penetrate into her aunt 's designs She frequently looked out , hoping to see the carriage return , but was disappointed . 
When tea was made ready , she could neither eat nor drink . 
After her aunt had disposed of a dozen cups of tea , and an adequate proportion of biscuit , butter and dried beef , she directed Melissa to prepare to take a walk . 
Melissa 's aunt unlocked the gate , and they entered the yard , which was overgrown with rank grass and rushes ; the avenue which led to the house was almost in the same condition . 
`` Here we are safe , '' said Melissa 's aunt , `` as I have took care to lock all the doors and gates after me , and here , Melissa , you are in the mansion of your ancestors . 
Your perverseness , Melissa , in refusing to comply with the wishes of your friends , has induced us to adopt the method of bringing you here where you are to remain until Alonzo leaves your neighbourhood , at least . 
-LRB- exclaimed Melissa , -RRB- is it possible my father can be so cruel ! 
Melissa heard none of her aunt 's observations , she lay in a stupifying agony , insensible to all that passed . 
When supper was ready , her aunt endeavoured to arouse her . 
She started up , stared around her with a wild agonizing countenance , but spoke not a word . 
Her aunt became alarmed . 
She applied stimulants to her temples and forehead , and persuaded her to take some cordials . 
She remained seemingly insensible through the night : just at morning , she fell into a slumber interrupted by incoherent moanings , convulsive startings , long drawn sighs , intermitting sobs , and by frequent , sudden and restless turnings from side to side . 
At length she appeared to be in a calm and quiet sleep for about an hour . 
About sunrise she awoke -- her aunt sat by her bed side . 
She gazed languidly about the room , and burst into tears . 
She wept a long time ; her aunt strove to consolate her , for she truly began to tremble , lest Melissa 's distress should produce her immediate dissolution . 
Towards night , however she became more calm and resigned , but a slight fever succeeded , which kept her confined for several days , after which she slowly recovered . 
John came frequently to the house to receive the commands of Melissa 's aunt , and brought such things as they wanted . 
Her aunt also sometimes went home with him , leaving the keys of the house with Melissa , but locking the gate and taking the key of that with her . 
She generally returned before sunset . 
When Melissa was so far recovered as to walk out , she found that the house was situated on an eminence , about one hundred yards from the Sound . 
Melissa passed much of her time in tracing the ruins of this antiquated place , in viewing the white sails as they passed up and down the sound , and in listening to the songs of the thousand various birds which frequented the garden and the forest . 
She could have been contented here to have buried her afflictions , and forever to retire from the world , could Alonzo but have resided within those walls . 
`` What will he think has become of me , '' she would say while the disconsolate tear glittered in her eye . 
Her aunt had frequently urged her to yield to her father 's injunctions , regain her liberty and marry Beauman ; and she every day become more solicitous and impertinent . 
A subject so hateful to Melissa , sometimes provoked her to tears ; at others her keen resentment . 
She therefore , when the weather was fair , passed much of her time in the garden and adjoining walks , wishing to be as much out of her aunt 's company as possible . 
One day John came there early in the morning and Melissa 's aunt went home with him . 
Melissa sat up until a late hour in the night , expecting her ; she went to the gate , and found it was fast locked , returned , locked and bolted the doors of the house , went to bed and slept as soundly as she had done since her residence in the old mansion . 
`` I have at least -LRB- she said , -RRB- escaped the disgusting curtain-lecture about marrying Beauman . '' 
The next day her aunt returned . 
`` I was quite concerned about you child -LRB- said she -RRB- how did you sleep . '' 
`` Never better -LRB- she answered -RRB- since I have been here . 
`` I had forgotten -LRB- said her aunt -RRB- that my rents became due this week -- I was detained until late by some of my tenants , John was out , and I dare not return in the night alone . 
`` You need not give yourself that trouble -LRB- replied Melissa -RRB- I am under no apprehension of staying here alone ; nothing can get into , or out of these premises ! '' 
-- Well thou hast wonderful courage , child -LRB- said her aunt -RRB- but I shall be as frequently here as possible , and as soon as my business is settled , I shall be absent no more . '' 
So saying , she bade Melissa good morning , and set off for her residence at the dwelling of John . 
She did not return in two days . 
The second night of her absence , Melissa was sitting in her chamber , reading , when she heard a noise as of several people trampling in the yard below . 
-- She arose , cautiously raised the window and looked out . 
It was extremely dark , she thought she might have been discovered . 
Her aunt came the next day , and told her she was obliged to go into the country to collect some debts of those to whom she had rented lands : she should be gone a few days , and as soon as she returned should come there . 
She then went off , leaving Melissa not dissatisfied with the prospect of her absence . 
Melissa amused herself in evenings by reading in the few books her aunt had brought there , and in the day , in walking around the yard and garden , or in traversing the rooms of the antique building . 
One evening as she was about retiring to rest , she thought she heard the same trampling noise in the yard , as on a former occasion . 
She steped softly to the window , suddenly raised it , and held out the candle . 
She listened and gazed with anxious solicitude , but discovered nothing more . 
All was silent ; she shut the window and in a short time went to bed . 
Some time in the night she was suddenly awakened by a sharp sound , apparently near her . 
She started in a trembling panic , but endeavoured to compose herself with the idea , that something had fallen from the shelves . 
As she lay musing upon the incident , she heard loud noises in the rooms below , succeeded by an irregular and confused number of voices , and presently after , foot-steps ascending the stairs which led to her chamber . 
She trembled ; a cold chilly sweat run down her face . 
And soon after she was convinced that she distinctly heard a whispering in her room . 
She raised herself up in the bed and cast inquisitive eyes towards her chamber door . 
All was darkness -- no new object was visible -- no sound was heard , and she again lay down . 
Her mind was too much agitated and alarmed to sleep . 
She had evidently heard sounds , footsteps and voices in the house , and whisperings which appeared to be in her room . 
-- She was confident that no person could ascend or get over the wall of the enclosure . 
She had the key of every door , and they were all fast locked , and yet she had heard them furiously open and shut A thought darted into her mind , was it not a plan which her aunt had contrived in order to frighten her to a compliance with her wishes ? 
But then how could she enter the house without keys ? 
But from whence did the whisperings proceed which appeared close to her bed-side ? 
Possibly it might be conveyed through the key hole of her chamber door . 
These thoughts tended , in some degree , to allay her fears ; they were possibilities ; at least , however , improbable . 
As she lay thus musing , a hand cold as the icy fingers of death , grasped her arm , which lay on the outside of the bed clothes . 
She screamed convulsively , and sprang up in the bed . 
She had not time to reflect . 
She flew out of the bed , ran to the fire and lighted a candle . 
Her heart beat rapidly . 
She cast timid glances around the room cautiously searching every corner , and examining the door . 
All things were in the same state she had left them when she went to bed . 
Her door was locked in the same manner : no visible being was in the room except herself . 
She sat down pondering on these strange events . 
Was it not probable that she was right in her first conjectures respecting their being the works of her aunt , and effected by her agents and instrumentality ? 
All were possible , except the cold hand which had grasped her arm . 
Or if false keys had been made use of to enter the rooms below , might they not also be used to enter her chamber ? 
-- But could her room be unlocked , persons enter , approach her bed depart and re-lock the door , while she was awake , without her hearing them ? 
She knew she could not go to sleep , and she determined not to go to bed again that night -- She took up a book , but her spirits had been too much disordered by the past scenes to permit her to read . 
She looked out of the window . 
She recollected the opening and shutting of the door -- perhaps they were still open . 
She opened her chamber door , and with the candle in her hand , cautiously descended the stairs , casting an inquisitive eye in every direction , and stopping frequently to listen . 
She advanced to the door ; it was locked . 
She examined the others ; they were in the same situation . 
She turned to go up stairs , when a loud whisper echoed through the hall , expressing `` away ! 
She flew like lightning to her chamber , relocked the door , and flung herself almost breathless , into a chair . 
As soon as her scattered senses collected , she concluded that whatever had been in the house was there still . 
She resolved to go out no more until day , which soon began to discolour the east with a fainter blue ; then purple streaks , intermingled with a dusky whiteness , ascended in pyramidial columns to the zenith ; these fading slowly away , the eastern horizon became fringed with the golden spangles of early morn . 
As soon as the morning bad a little advanced , Melissa ventured out . 
She proceeded with hesitating steps , carefully scrutinizing every object which met her sight . 
She examined every door ; they were all fast . 
She critically searched every room , closet , & c. above and below . 
She then took a light and descended into the cellar -- here her inquisition was the same . 
Thus did she thoroughly and strictly examine and search every part of the house from the garret to the cellar , but could find nothing altered , changed or removed ; no outlet , no signs of there having been any being in the house the evening before except herself . 
She then unlocked the outer door and proceeded to the gate , which she found locked as usual . 
She next examined the yard , the garden , and all the out-houses . 
She next walked around by the wall , the whole circle of the enclosure . 
She was convinced that the unusual height of the wall rendered it impossible for any one to get over it . 
enquired Melissa . 
she asked . 
asked she . 
Melissa knew not what to think , she could not give up the idea of false keys -- perhaps her aunt had returned to her father 's . 
Her father would as soon do this as to confine her in this solitary place , and he would go all lengths to induce her either by terror , persuasion or threats , to relinquish Alonzo and marry Beauman . 
A thought impressed her mind which gave her some consolation . 
She asked John if he would assist her that day . 
She then directed him to go to work . 
She then asked John if he was willing to leave the key of the gate and the draw-bridge with her . 
This she promised to do and John departed . 
-LSB- 3 -RSB- That night , Melissa let down the bridge locked and barred the gate , and the doors and windows of the house : she also went again over all parts of the building , strictly searching every place , though she was well convinced she should find nothing extraordinary . 
She then retired to her chamber , seated herself at a western window , and watched the slow declining sun , as it leisurely sunk behind the lofty groves . 
Pensive twilight spread her misty mantle over the landscape ; the western horizon glowed with the spangles of evening . 
Melissa did not retire from the window until late ; she then shut it and withdrew within the room . 
She determined not to go to bed that night : if she was to be visited by beings , material or immaterial , she chose not again to encounter them in darkness , or to be surprised when she was asleep . 
But why should she fear ? 
She knew of none she had displeased except her father , her aunt and Beauman . 
If by any of those the late terrifying scenes had been wrought , she had now effectually precluded a recurrence thereof , for she was well convinced that no human being could now enter the enclosure without her permission . 
But if supernatural agents had been the actors , what had she to fear from them ? 
The night passed away without any alarming circumstances , and when daylight appeared she flung herself upon the bed , and slept until the morning was considerably advanced . 
She now felt convinced that her former conjectures were right , that it was her aunt , her father , or both , who had caused the alarming sounds she had heard , a repetition of which had only been prevented by the precautions she had taken . 
When she awoke , the horizon was overclouded , and it began to rain . 
She went to the gate , and found all things as she had left them ; she returned , fastened the doors as usual , examined all parts of the house , and again went to her chamber . 
She sat up until a late hour , when growing very drowsy , and convinced that she was safe and secure , she went to bed ; leaving , however , two candles burning in the room . 
As she , for two nights , had been deprived of her usual rest , she soon fell into a slumber . 
She had not long been asleep before she was suddenly aroused by the apparent report of a pistol , seemingly discharged close to her head . 
-- Awakened so instantaneously , her recollection , for a time , was confused and imperfect . 
She was only sensible of a strong , sulphurous scent : but she soon remembered that she had left two candles burning , and every object was now shrouded in darkness . 
This alarmed her exceedingly . 
What was the sound she had just heard ? 
While she was thus musing in perplexity , a broad flash like lightning , transiently illuminated the chamber , followed by a long , loud , and deep roar , which seemed to shake the building to its centre . 
It did not appear like thunder : the sounds seemed to be in the rooms directly over her head . 
She listened for a repetition of the thunder -- but a very different sound soon grated on her ear . 
-- A hollow , horrible groan echoed through her apartment , passing off in a faint dying murmur . 
Melissa raised herself up in the bed ; a tall , white form moved from the upper end of the room , glided slowly by her bed , and seemed to pass off near the foot . 
She then heard the doors below alternately open and shut , slapping furiously , and in quick succession followed by violentnoises in the rooms below , like the falling of heavy bodies and the crash of furniture . 
Clamourous voices succeeded , among which she could distinguish boisterous menaces and threatenings , and the plaintive tone of expostulation A momentary silence ensued , when the cry of `` Murder ! 
But she soon heard heavy foot-steps ascending the stairs to her chamber door . 
It was now she became terrified and alarmed beyond any former example . 
-- Knowing that every avenue to the enclosure was effectually secured ; knowing that all the doors and windows of the house as also that which opened into her chamber , were fast locked strictly bolted and barred ; and knowing that all the keys were in her possession , she could not entertain the least doubt but the noises she had heard were produced by supernatural beings , and , she had reason to believe , of the most mischievous nature . 
She was now convinced that her father or her aunt could have no agency in the business . 
She even wished her aunt had returned . 
It must be exceedingly difficult to cross the moat , as the draw-bridge was up ; it must be still more difficult to surpass the wall of the enclosure ; it was impossible for any human being to enter the house , and still more impossible to enter her chamber . 
While she lay thus ruminating in extreme agitation , momentarily expecting to have her ears assailed with some terrific sound , a pale light dimly illuminated her chamber . 
She raised herself up to look towards the door ; the first object which met her eye was a most horrible form standing at a little distance from her bed side . 
Melissa uttering a shriek of terror , shrunk into the bed , and in an instant the room was involved in pitchy darkness . 
A freezing ague seized her limbs , and drops of chilling sweat stood upon her face . 
Immediately a horrid hoarse voice burst from amidst the gloom of her apartment -- `` Begone ! 
-- The bed on which she lay then seemed to be agitated , and directly she perceived some person crawling on its foot . 
Every consideration except present safety was relinquished ; instantaneously she sprang from the bed to the floor -- with convulsed grasp seized the candle , flew to the fire and lighted it . 
She gazed wildly around the room -- no new object was visible . 
With timid step she approached the bed ; she strictly searched all around and under it , but nothing strange could be found . 
A thought darted into her mind , to leave the house immediately and fly to John 's ; this was easy , as the keys of the gate and draw-bridge were in her possession . 
She stoped not to reconsider her determination , but seizing the keys , with the candle in her hand she unlocked her chamber door , and proceeded cautiously down stairs , fearfully casting her eyes on each side , as she tremblingly advanced to the outer door . 
She hesitated a moment . 
To what perils was she about to expose herself by thus venturing out at the dead of the night , and proceeding such a distance alone ? 
Her situation she thought could become no more hazardous , and she was about to unbar the door , when she was alarmed by a deep , hollow sigh . 
She looked around and saw , stretched on one side of the hall , the same ghastly form which had so recently appeared standing by her bed side The same haggard countenance , the same awful appearance of murderous death . 
A faintness came upon her ; she turned to flee to her chamber -- the candle dropped from her trembling hand , and she was shrouded in impenetrable darkness . 
She groped to find the stairs : as she came near their foot , a black object , apparently in human shape , stood before her , with eyes which seemed to burn like coals of fire , and red flames issuing from its mouth . 
As she stood fixed a moment in inexpressible trepidation , a large ball of fire rolled along the hall , towards the door , and burst with an explosion which seemed to rock the building to its deepest foundation . 
Melissa closed her eyes and sunk senseless to the floor . 
She revived and got to her chamber , she hardly knew how ; locked her door , lighted another candle , and after again searching the room , flung herself into a chair , in a state of mind which almost deprived her of reason . 
Daylight soon appeared , and the cheerful sun darting its enlivening rays through the crevices and windows of the antique mansion , recovered her exhausted spirits , and dissipated , in some degree , the terrors which hovered about her mind . 
She endeavoured to reason coolly on the events of the past night , but reason could not elucidate them . 
Not the least noise had been heard since she last returned to her chamber : she therefore expected to discover no traits which might tend to a disclosure of those mysteries . 
She consolated herself only with a fixed determination to leave the desolate mansion . 
Should John come there that day , he might be prevailed on to permit her to remain at her aunt 's apartment in his house until her aunt should return . 
If he should not come before sunset , she resolved to leave the mansion and proceed there . 
She took some refreshment and went down stairs : she found the doors and windows all fast as she had left them . 
She then again searched every room in the house , both above and below , and the cellar ; but she discovered no appearance of there having been any person there . 
She then went to the gate -- it was locked as usual , and the draw bridge was up . 
She again traversed the circuit of the wall , but found no alteration , or any place where it was possible the enclosure might be entered . 
Again she visited the outer buildings , and even entered the cemetery , but discovered not the least circumstance which could conduce to explain the surprising transactions of the preceding night She however returned to her room in a more composed frame of spirit confident that she should not remain alone another night in that gloomy , desolate , and dangerous solitude . 
Towards evening Melissa took her usual walk around the enclosure It was that season of the year when weary summer is lapsing into the arms of fallow autumn . 
Melissa walked around the yard , contemplating the varying beauties of the scene : the images of departed joys -- the days when Alonzo had participated with her in admiring the splendours of rural prospects , raised in her bosom the sigh of deep regret . 
She entered the garden and traversed the alleys , now overgrown with weeds and tufted knot grass . 
As she passed from the garden , she involuntarily stopped at the cemetery . 
She paused in serious reflec tion . 
She seated herself on a little hillock , under a weeping willow , which stood near the cemetery , and watched the rising shower , which slowly ascended in gloomy pomp , half hidden behind the western groves , shrouding the low sun in black vapour , while coming thunders more nearly and more awfully rolled . 
Melissa hastened to the mansion as she reached the door a very briliant flash of lightning , accompanied by a tremendous explosion , alarmed her . 
She unlocked the door , and hurried to her chamber . 
Melissa walked her room , listening to the wild commotion of the elements . 
She feared that if the storm continued , she should be compelled to pass another night in the lonely mansion ; if so , she resolved not to go to bed . 
She now suddenly recollected that in her haste to regain her chamber she had forgotten to lock the outer door . 
The shock she had received when the lightning demolished the elm tree , was the cause of this neglect . 
She took the candle , ran hastily down , and fastened the door . 
As she was returning , she heard footsteps , and imperfectly saw the glance of semething coming out of an adjoining room into the hall . 
Supposing some ghastly object was approaching , she averted her eyes and flew to the stairs . 
As she was ascending them , a voice behind her exclaimed `` Gracious heaven ! 
Melissa ! '' 
-- The voice agitated her frame with a confused , sympathetic sensation . 
She turned , fixed her eyes upon the person who had spoken ; unconnected ideas floated a moment in her imagination -- `` Eternal powers ! 
-LRB- she cried -RRB- it is Alonzo . '' 
Alonzo and Melissa were equally surprised at so unexpected a meeting . 
How he had discovered her solitude -- what led him to that lonely place -- how he had got over the wall -- were queries which first arose in her mind . 
He likewise could not conceive by what miracle he should find her in a remote , desolate building , which he had supposed to be uninhabited . 
With rapture he took her trembling hand ; tears of joy choaked their utterance . 
`` You are wet , Alonzo , -LRB- said Melissa , at length -RRB- we will go up to my chamber . 
`` No one except myself ; -LRB- she answered -RRB- I am here alone , Alonzo . '' 
-LRB- he exclaimed -RRB- here alone , Melissa -- good God ! 
`` Let us go up to my chamber -LRB- she replied -RRB- and I will tell you all . '' 
He followed her to her apartment and seated himself by the fire . 
`` You want refreshment , '' said Melissa , which was indeed the case , as he had been long without any , and was wet , hungry and weary . 
She immediately set about preparing tea , and soon had it ready , and a comfortable repast was spread for his entertainment . 
Melissa and Alonzo seated at the same table , a table prepared by her own hand , in a lonely mansion , separated from society , and no one to interrupt them . 
The lightning still blazed , the thunder bellowed , the wind roared , the sea raged , the rain poured , mingled with heavy hail ; Alonzo and Melissa heard little of it . 
She told him all that had happened to her since they parted , except the strange noises and awful sights which had terrified her during her confinement in that solitary building ; this she cosidered unnecessary and untimely , in her present situation . 
Alonzo informed her that as soon as he had learned the manner in which she had been sent away , he left the house of Vincent and went to her father 's , to see if he could not find out by some of the domestics what course her aunt had taken . 
He then went to several places among the relatives of the family , where he had heretofore visited with Melissa , most of whom received him with a cautious coldness . 
At length he came to the house of Mr. Simpson , the gentleman to whose seat Alonzo was once driven by a shower , where he accidentally found Melissa on a visit , as mentioned before -LSB- 5 -RSB- Here he was admitted with the ardour of friendship . 
They had heard his story ; Melissa had kept up a correspondence with one of the young ladies ; they were therefore , informed of all except Melissa 's removal from her father 's house : of this they knew nothing until told thereof by Alonzo . 
Alonzo was treated with the most friendly politeness by the family ; he found that they were deeply interested in his favour and the welfare of Melissa . 
He will not even inform me to what place he has sent Melissa ; her aunt however is with her , and they must be at the residence of some of the family relatives . 
I will dispatch my son William among our con nections to see if he can find her out . '' 
The next morning William departed , and was gone two days , but could not obtain the least intelligence either of Melissa or her aunt , although he had been the rounds among the relations of the family . 
I am very little acquainted with Melissa 's aunt . 
I have understood that she draws a decent support from her patrimonial resources , which , it is said are pretty large , and that she resides alternately with her different relatives . 
I have understood also that my kinsman expects her fortune to come into his family , in case she never marries , which , in all probability , she now will not , and that she , in consequence , holds considerable influence over him . 
It is not possible but that Melissa is yet concealed at some place of her aunt 's residence , and that the family are in the secret . 
I think it can not be long before they will disclose themselves ; you , Alonzo , are welcome to make my house your home ; and if Melissa can be found , she shall be treated as my daughter . 
Alonzo thanked him for his friendship , and fatherly kindness : `` I must continue -LRB- said he -RRB- my researches for Melissa ; the result you shall know . '' 
He at length arrived at the inn in the last little village where Melissa and her aunt had stopped the day they came to the mansion . 
Here the inn-keeper informed him that two ladies , answering his description , had been at his house ; he named the time , which was the day in which Melissa , with her aunt , left her father 's house . 
By these branches he let himself down into the yard proceeded to the house , found the door open , which Melissa had left in her fright , and entered into one of the rooms , where he proposed to stay until , at least , the shower was over , still supposing the house unoccupted , until the noise of locking the door , and the light of the candle drew him from the room , when , to his infinite surprise , he discovered Melissa , as before related . 
Melissa listened to Alonzo with varied emotion . 
The fixed obduracy of her father , the generous conduct of the the Simpsons , the constancy of Alonzo , filled her heart with inexpressible sensations . 
She foresaw that her sufferings were not shortly to end . 
She knew not when her sorrows were to close . 
Alonzo was shocked at the alteration which appeared in the features of Melissa . 
The rose had faded from her cheek except when it was transiently suffused with a hectic flush . 
A livid paleness sat upon her countenance , and her fine form was rapidly wasting . 
It was easy to be foreseen that the grief which preyed upon her heart would soon destroy her , unless speedily allayed . 
`` Suffer me -LRB- said Alonzo to Melissa -RRB- to remove you from this solitary confinement . 
Melissa , I would not censure your father , but permit me to say , that after such treatment , you are absolved from implicit obedience to his rigorous , cruel and stern commands . 
Melissa sighed , wiping a tear which fell from her eye . 
`` Unqualified obedience to my parents -LRB- said she -RRB- I have ever considered the first of duties , and have religiously practised thereon -- but where Alonzo , would you remove me ? '' 
`` I have no where to go , '' she replied . 
Be governed by me in this , Melissa and in all things I will obey you thereafter . 
I will then submit to the future events of fate , but I can not , Melissa , I can not leave you in this doleful place . '' 
Melissa arose and walked the room in extreme agitation . 
What could she do ? 
She had , indeed , determined to leave the house , for reasons which Alonzo knew nothing of . 
But should she leave it in the way she had proposed , she was not sure but she would be immediately remanded back , more strictly guarded , and more severely treated . 
She therefore came to a determination -- `` I will go -LSB- she said -RSB- to Mr. Simpson 's . '' 
Melissa was to have the draw-bridge down , and the gate open . 
If John should come to the house the succeeding day , she would persuade him to let her still keep the keys . 
But it was possible her aunt might return . 
A signal was therefore agreed on ; if her aunt should be there , a candle was to be placed at the window fronting the gate , in the room above ; if not , it was to be placed against a similar window in the room below . 
Melissa was to run down , under pretence of seeing who was there , fly with Alonzo to the carriage , and leave her aunt to scrape acquaintance with the ghosts and goblins of the old mansion . 
For even if her aunt should return , which was extremely doubtful , she thought she could contrive to let down the bridge , and unlock the gate in the evening without her knowledge . 
At any rate she was determined not to let the keys go out of her hands , unless they were forced from her , until she had escaped from that horrid and dreary place . 
Melissa accompanied him to the gate and the bridge , which was let down ; he passed over , and she slowly withdrew , both frequently turning to look back . 
-- When she came to the gate , she stopped ; Alonzo stopped also . 
She waved a white handkerchief she had in her hand , and Alonzo bowed in answer to the sign . 
She then leisurely entered and slowly shut the gate . 
Alonzo could not forbear climbing up into a tree to catch another glimpse of her as she passed up the avenue . 
-- With lingering step he saw her move along , soon receding from his view in the grey twilight of misty morning . 
Rejoiced to find that he had discovered Melissa , they applauded the plan of her removal , and assisted him in obtaining a carriage . 
A sedan was procured , and he set out to return , promising to see Vincent again , as soon as he had removed Melissa to Mr. Simpson 's . 
He was therefore assured that Melissa was alone . 
His heart beat ; a joyful tremor seized his frame ; Melissa was soon to be under his care , for a short time at least . 
-- He drove up to the house , sprang out of the carriage , and fastened his horse to a locust tree ; -- the door was open , he went in , flew lightly up stairs , entered her chamber -- Melissa was not there ! 
What could have become of her ? 
It was impossible , he thought , but that she must still be there . 
Had she been removed by fraud or force , the signal candle would not have been at the window . 
Perhaps , in a freakish moment , she had concealed herself for no other purpose than to cause him a little perplexity . 
He then placed the candle in a lantern , went out and examined the out-houses ; he next went round the garden and the yard , strictly exploring and investigating every place , but he found her not . 
He repeatedly and loudly called her by name ; he was repeatedly only by the solitary echoes of the wilderness . 
Again he returned to the house , traversed the rooms , there also calling on the name of Melissa ; his voice reverberated from the walls , dying away in solemn murmurs in the distant empty apartments . 
Thus did he continue his anxious scrutiny , alternately in the house and the enclosure , until day , but no traces could be discovered , nothing seen or heard of Melissa . 
What had become of her he could not form the most distant conjecture . 
Nothing was removed from the house ; the beds , the chairs , the table , all the furniture remained in the same condition as when he was there the night before ; the candle as had been agreed upon , was at the window , and another was burning on the table ; it was therefore evident that she could not have been long gone when he arrived . 
By what means she had thus suddenly disappeared , was a most deep and inscrutable mystery . 
Alonzo had understood from Melissa that John 's hut was situate about one mile north from the mansion where she had been confined . 
He soon discovered it , and knew it from the description given thereof by Melissa . 
He went up and knocked at the door , which was opened by John , whom Alonzo also knew , from the portrait Melissa had drawn of him . 
Alonzo then told him the situation of the mansion , and that she was not there . 
John informed him that she was there about sunset , and according to her request he had left the keys of the gate and bridge with her , he desired Alonzo to tarry there until he ran to the mansion . 
Vincent and his lady were much surprised at Alonzo 's account of Melissa 's sudden disappearance , and they wished to ascertain whether her father 's family knew any thing of the circumstance . 
Social intercourse had become suspended between the families of Vincent and Melissa 's father , as the latter had taxed the former of improperly endeavouring to promote the views of Alonzo . 
They therefore procured a neighbouring woman to visit Melissa 's mother , to see if any information could be obtained concerning Melissa ; but the old lady had heard nothing of her since her departure with her aunt , who had never yet returned . 
At the houses of Mr. Simpson and Vincent he resided sometime , while they made the most diligent search to discover Melissa , but nothing could be learnt of her fate . 
Alonzo then travelled into various parts of the country , making such enquiries as caution dictated of all whom he thought likely to give him information , but he found none who could give him the least intelligence of his lost Melissa . 
In the course of his wanderings he passed near the old mansion-house where Melissa had been confined . 
From John 's plain and simple narrative , Alonzo concluded that Melissa had been removed by her father 's order , or through the agency or instigation of her aunt . 
Whether his visit to the old mansion had been somehow discovered or suspected , or whether she was removed by some preconcerted or antecedent plan , he could not conjecture . 
Still , the situation in which he found the mansion the night he went to convey her away , left an inexplicable impression on his mind . 
He could in no manner account how the candle could be placed at the window according to agreement , unless it had been done by herself , and if so , how had she so suddenly been conveyed away ? 
Alonzo asked John where Melissa 's aunt now was . 
Convinced now that Melissa was removed by the agency of her persecutors , he compared the circumstances of John 's relation . 
This great distance , he believed to be New-London , and her friend or relation her cousin , at whose house Alonzo first saw her , under whose care she would be safe , and Beauman would have an opportunity of renewing his addresses . 
Your affair with Melissa , I suppose is not so favourable as you could wish , but despair not , my son ; hope is the harbinger of fairer prospects ; rely on Providence , which never deserts those who submissively bow to the justice of its dispensations . '' 
Through disappointment , vexation , and the fatigues he had undergone in wandering about , for a long time , in search of Melissa , despondency had seized upon his mind and indisposition upon his body . 
The first object was to ascertain whether Melissa was at her cousin 's . 
Should he go to the house of her cousin , it might prove an injury to her if she were there , and could answer no valuable purpose if she were not . 
The evening after he arrived there he wrapped himself up in his cloak and took the street which led to the house of Melissa 's cousin ; he stopped when he came against it to see if he could make any discoveries . 
He knew it was not the wife of Melissa 's cousin , and from her appearance he believed it to be Melissa . 
Alonzo 's heart beat violently ; he now had a side view of her face , and was more than ever convinced that it was Melissa ; her delicate features , though more pale and dejected than when last he saw her ; -- her brown hair , which fell in artless circles around her lily neck , her arched eye-brows and commanding aspect ; Alonzo moved towards the house , with a design , if possible , to draw her attention , and should it really prove to be Melissa , to discover himself . 
He had proceeded but a few steps before she arose , shut the window , retired , and the light disappeared . 
Alonzo waited a considerable time but she appeared no more . 
Supposing she had retired for the night , he slowly withdrew , chagrined at his disappointment , yet pleased at the discovery he had made . 
When they named the family where their visit was intended , he found it to be Melissa 's cousin . 
He however waited with anxiety for their return , hoping he should be able to learn by their conversation , whether Melissa was there or not . 
`` She is sister to the gentleman 's wife , where we visited -LRB- answered Mr. Wyllys -RRB- her father lives in Newport , and she has come here for her health '' `` Do you not think -LRB- said Mrs. Wyllys -RRB- that she resembles their cousin Melissa , who resided there some time ago ? '' 
`` Very much indeed , -LRB- replied her husband -RRB- only she is not quite so handsome . '' 
Again was Alonzo disappointed , and again did he experience a melancholy pleasure ; he had the last night hoped that he had discovered Melissa , but to find her in a hopeless decline , was worse than that she should remain undiscovered . 
`` It is reported -LRB- said Mrs. Wyllys -RRB- that Melissa has been upon the verge of matrimony , but that the treaty was somehow broken off ; perhaps Beauman will renew his addresses again should this be the case . '' 
From this discourse , Alonzo was convinced that Melissa was not the person he had seen at her cousin 's the preceding evening , and that she was not there . 
As he passed by the house of Melissa 's cousin , he saw the lady , who had appeared at the window , walking in the garden . 
-- Her air , her figure , had very much the appearance of Melissa,-but the lineaments of her countenance were when viewed by the light of day , widely dissimilar . 
Alonzo felt no strong curiosity farther to examine her features , but passing on , returned to his lodgings . 
For many weeks had he travelled and searched every place where he thought it probable Melissa might be found , both among her relatives and elsewhere . 
He had made every effort to obtain some clue to her removal from the old mansion , but he could learn nothing but what he had been told by John . 
If his friends should ever hear of her , they could not inform him thereof , as no one knew where he was . 
Would it not , therefore , be best for him to return back , and consult with his friends and if nothing had been heard of her , pursue some other mode of enquiry ? 
He one night dreamed that he was sitting in a strange house , contemplating on his present situation , when Melissa suddenly entered the room . 
Her appearance was more pale , sickly and dejected than when he last saw her . 
Her elegant form had wasted away , her eyes were sunk , her cheeks fallen , her lips livid . 
He fancied it to be night : she held a candle in her hand , smiling languidly upon him ; she turned and went out of the room , beckoning him to follow : he thought he immediately arose and followed her . 
She glided through several winding rooms and at length he lost sight of her , and the light gradually fading away , he was involved in deep darkness . 
On one side of the room appeared a hearse , on which some person was laid ; he went up to it ; the first object that arrested his attention was the lovely form of Melissa , shrouded in the sable vestments of death ! 
Cold and lifeless , she lay stretched upon the hearse , beautiful even in dissolution ; the dying smile of complacency had not yet deserted her cheek . 
The music of her voice had ceased ; her fine eyes were closed forever . 
Insensible to objects in which she once delighted ; to afflictions which had blasted her blooming prospects , and drained the streams of life , she lay like blossomed trees of spring , over-thrown by rude and boisterous winds . 
He fancied himself with Melissa , at the house of her father , who had consented to their union , and that the marriage ceremony between them was there performed . 
-- He thought that Melissa appeared as she had done in her most fortunate and sprightly days , before the darts of adversity , and the thorns of affliction , had wounded her heart . 
Her father seemed to be divested of all his awful sternness , and gave her to Alonzo with cheerful freedom . 
Why is Melissa hurried to the tomb ? '' 
But Melissa ! 
she -- ah ! 
where is she ? 
Must the loathsome spider nestle on her lily bosom ? 
the odious reptile riot on her delicate limbs ? 
the worm revel amid the roses of her cheek , fatten on her temples , and bask in the lustre of her eyes ? 
the lustre has become dimmed in death ; the rose and the lily are withered ; the harmony of her voice has ceased ; the graces , the elegancies of form , the innumerable delicacies of air , all are gone , and I am left in a state of misery which defies mitigation or comparison . '' 
`` I fear -LRB- said he -RRB- I have murmured against the wisdom of Providence . 
He now recollected that Melissa once told him that she had an uncle who resided near Charleston , in South-Carolina ; -LSB- 7 -RSB- thither he supposed she had been sent by her father , when she was removed from the old mansion , in order to prevent his having access to her , and with a view to compel her to marry Beauman . 
Her appearance had indicated a deep decline when he last saw her . 
`` There , -LRB- said he -RRB- far removed from friends and acquaintance , there did she languish , there did she die -- a victim to excessive grief , and cruel , parental persecution . 
The moon shone brilliantly from her lofty throne ; the chill , heavy dews of autumn glittered on the decaying verdure . 
Alonzo heard them not ; he was insensible to all external objects , until he had imperceptibly wandered to the rock on the point of the beach , verging the Sound , to which he had attended Melissa the first time he saw her at her cousin 's . 
The memory of departed joys passed with rapidity over his imagination ; his first meeting with Melissa ; the evening he had attended her to that place , her frequent allusions to the scenery there displayed , when they had traversed the fields or reclined in the bower on her favourite hill ; in fine , all the vicissitudes through which they had passed , were recalled to his mind . 
His fancy saw her , felt her gently leaning on his arm , while he tremblingly pressed her hand . 
Again he saw smiling health crimsoning the lilies of her cheek ; again he saw the bright soul of sympathetic feelings sparkling in her eye -- the air of ease -- the grace of attitude -- her brown locks circling the borders of her snowy robe . 
Again he was enraptured by the melody of her voice . 
she shifted the curtain . 
He saw Melissa stretched on the sable hearse , wrapped in the dreary vestments of the grave -- the roses withered -- the lilies faded -- motionless -- the graces fled -- her eyes fixed , and sealed in the glaze of death ! 
His only place of resort , except to his lodgings and the ship , was to Melissa 's favourite rock ; -- there he bowed as to the shrine of her spirit , and there he consecrated his devotions . 
Alonzo immediately recognized him to be the cousin of Melissa , at whose house he had first seen her . 
He was dressed in full mourning , which was a sufficient indication that he was apprized of her death . 
He therefore accepted it , and passed an hour with him , from whom he learnt that Melissa had been sent to her uncle 's at Charleston , for the recovery of her health , where she died . 
Whether Melissa 's cousin had been informed of the particulars of Alonzo 's unfortunate attachment , was not known , as he instituted no conversation on the subject . 
Alonzo had fixed his eyes , as near as his judgment could direct , towards Melissa 's favourite rock , till nothing but sea was discoverable . 
`` Melissa perished , -LRB- said Alonzo -RRB- but not by the hand of her lover -- she expired , but not through the mistaken frenzy of him who adored her . 
She died , conscious of the unfeigned love I bore her . '' 
`` You are unhappy , Alonzo , -LSB- said Beauman -RSB- in the death of your Melissa , to which it is possible I have been undesignedly accessory . 
I could say much on the subject , would my strength permit ; but it is needless -- she is gone , and I must soon go also . 
She was sent to her uncle 's at Charleston , by her father , where I was soon to follow her . 
It was supposed that thus widely removed from all access to your company , she would yield to the persuasion of her friends to renounce you ; her unexpected death , however , frustrated every design of this nature , and overwhelmed her father and family in inexpressible woe . '' 
Sometimes a partial revival would take place , when he would fall into incoherent mutterings , calling on the names of his deceased father , his mother and Melissa ; his voice dying away in imperfect moanings , till his lips continued to move without sound . 
This he readily complied with , not concealing his attachment to Melissa , her father 's barbarity , her death in consequence , his own father 's failure , with all the particulars of his leaving America , his capture , escape from prison , and arrival in France ; as also the town of his nativity , the name of his father , and the particular circumstances of his family , concluding by expressing his unconquerable reluctance to return to his native country , which now would be to him only a gloomy wilderness , and that his present object was only some means of support . 
As he was walking out early one morning , he discovered something lying in the street , which he at first supposed to be a small piece of silk ; he took it up , and found it to be a curiously wrought purse , containing a few guineas , with some small pieces of silver , and something at the bottom carefully wrapped in a piece of paper ; he unfolded it , and was thunderstruck at beholding an elegant miniature of Melissa ! 
Her sweetly pensive features , her expressive countenance , her soulenlivening eye ! 
Melissa 's miniature found in the streets of Paris , after she had some time been dead ! 
It was indeed Edgar , the early friend and fellow-student of Alonzo -- the brother of Melissa ! 
Edgar informed Alonzo that the news of Melissa 's death reached him by a letter from his father , while at the army ; that he immediately procured a furlough and visited his father , whom , with his mother , he found in inconsolable distress . 
He however informed Edgar of all that had happened since they parted at Vincent 's ; respecting the old mansion , Melissa 's extraordinary disappearance therefrom , the manner in which he was informed of her death , his departure from America , capture , escape . 
To Edgar as well as Alonzo , Melissa 's sudden and unaccountable removal from the mansion was mysterious and inexplicable . 
The next morning as they were about to depart , Alonzo took Melissa 's miniature from his bosom , he contemplated the picture a few moments with ardent emotion , and presented it to Edgar . 
Let us live worthy of ourselves , of our holy religion , of Melissa -- Melissa , whom , when a few more suns have arisen and set , we shall meet in regions where all tears shall be eternally wiped from every eye . '' 
In Melissa he looked for as much happiness as earth could afford , nor could he see any prospect in life which could repair the loss he had sustained . 
After calling for a pint of ale , he enquired of the old lady , if Col. D -- -LRB- Melissa 's uncle -RRB- did not live near the city . 
She informed him that he resided about a mile from the town , where he had an elegant seat , and that he was very rich . 
The moon , in full lustre , shone with solemn , silvery ray , on the sacred piles , and funeral monuments of the sacred dead ; the wind murmured mournfully among the weeping willows ; a solitary nightingale -LSB- 11 -RSB- sang plaintively in the distant forest , and a whipperwill , Melissa 's favourite bird , whistled near the portico of the church . 
Miss MelissaD -- , Whose remains are deposited here , and whose ethereal part became a seraph , Oct. 26 , 1776 , In the 18th year of her age . 
Alonzo bent , kneeled , he prostrated himself , he clasped the green turf which enclosed her grave , he watered it with his tears he warmed it with his sighs . 
He arose and walked away ; suddenly he stopped : `` Yet -LRB- said he -RRB- if spirits departed lose not the power of recollection ; if they have knowledge of present events on earth , Melissa can not have forgotten me -- she must pity me . '' 
He returned to the grave , he took her miniature from his bosom he held it up and earnestly viewed it by the moon 's pale ray . 
-LRB- he exclaimed -RRB- how tenderly does she beam her lovely eye upon me ! 
lie lightly on her bosom ! 
sprinkle the dews gently over her grave , while the mourning breezes sigh sadly amid your branches ! 
And when the final trump shall renovate and arouse the sleeping saint ; when on `` buoyant step '' she soars to glory , may our meeting spirits join in beatific transport ! 
May my enraptured ear catch the first holy whisper of her consecrated lips . '' 
Affection , passion , inclination , urged him to go and breathe a farewel sigh , to drop a final tear over the grave of Melissa ; discretion reason , wisdom forbade it -- forbade that he re-pierce the ten thousand wounds of his bosom , by the acute revival of unavailing sorrows . 
-- `` Melissa ! 
-- It is Melissa !! '' 
`` Melissa alive ! 
Did not Alonzo see her death announced in the public prints ? 
Did not her cousin at New-London inform him of the circumstances , and was he not in mourning ? 
And was not the unquestionable testimony of her brother Edgar sufficient to seal the truth of all this ? 
Melissa has long since mouldered into dust , and he has raised up some female Martin Guerre , or Thomas Hoag -- some person from whose near resemblance to the deceased , he thinks to impose upon us , and upon Alonzo also , for Melissa . 
But it will not do ; it must be the identical Melissa herself , or it might as well be her likeness in a marble statue . 
can Alonzo realize the delicacies , the tenderness , the blandishments , of Melissa in another ? 
Can her substitute point him to the rock on New-London beach , the bower on her favourite hill , or so feelingly describe the charms of nature ? 
Can he , indeed find in her representative those alluring graces , that pensive sweetness , those unrivalled virtues and matchless worth , which he found in Melissa , and which attracted , fixed , and secured the youngest affections of his soul ? 
Or could the author even make it out that Alonzo was deceived by a person so nearly resembling Melissa that he could not distinguish the difference , yet to his readers he must unveil the deception , and , of course , the story will end in disappointment ; it will leave an unpleasant and disagreeable impression on the mind of the reader , which in novel writing is certainly wrong . 
It is proved , as clearly as facts can prove , that he has suffered Melissa todie , and since she is dead , it is totally beyond his power to bring her to life -- and so his history is intrinsically good for nothing . '' 
If all these fail ; if in these Alonzo can not find a balsam sufficient to heal his wounded bosom then if , in despite of graves and tomb-stones , Melissa will come to his relief ; will pour the balm of consolation over his anguished soul , cynical critic , can the author help it ? 
It was indeed Melissa , the identical Melissa , whom Alonzo ascended a tree to catch a last glimpse of , as she walked up the avenue to the old mansion , after they had parted at the draw-bridge , on the morning of the day when she was so mysteriously removed `` Melissa ! '' 
-- were all they could articulate ; and frown not , my fair readers , if we tell you that she was instantly in his arms , while he pressed his ardent lips to her glowing cheek . 
`` I acknowledge -LRB- said the officer -RRB- that I have a little deceived you ; my story was fiction founded on truth -- the novel style : but for the deceptive part , you may thank your little gipsey of a nymph there ; -LSB- pointing to Melissa -RSB- she planned and I executed . '' 
`` How ready you gentlemen are , -LRB- replied Melissa -RRB- when accused of impropriety , to east the blame on the defenceless ! 
Melissa then introduced the young officer to Alonzo by the appellation of Capt. Wilmot . 
-- `` He is the son of my deceased uncle -LRB- said she -RRB- a cousin to whom I am much indebted , as you shall hereafter know . '' 
A coach drove up to the door , which Melissa informed Alonzo was her uncle 's , and was sent to convey Alfred and her home . 
`` You will have no objection to breakfast with me at my uncle 's -LRB- said Alfred -RRB- if it be only to keep our cousin Melissa in countenance . '' 
It was agreed that Alonzo should pass a few days at the house of Melissa 's uncle , when Melissa was to accompany him to Connecticut . 
He could not , therefore , be constantly at his uncle 's , though he was principally there while Alonzo staid : but being absent the day after his arrival , Melissa and Alonzo having retired to a room separate from the family , she gave him the following account of what happened after they had parted at the old mansion . 
`` The morning after you left me -LRB- she said -RRB- John came to the bridge and called to be let in ; I immediately went to the gate , opened it , and let down the bridge John informed me that my aunt had suddenly and unexpectedly arrived that morning in company with a strange gentleman , and that he had come for the keys , as my aunt was to visit the mansion that day . 
But such is the force of early impressions , -LSB- Melissa sighed -RSB- that my uncle found it impossibleto submit to these firm injunctions ; a clandestine marriage ensued , and my grandfather 's maledictions in consequence . 
`` Soon after I arrived here , my uncle came into my chamber one day ; `` Melissa , -LRB- said he -RRB- I find by your father 's letters that he considers you to have formed an improper connection ; I wish you to give me a true statement of the matter , and if any thing can be done to reconcile you to your father , you may depend upon my assistance . 
`` I was but a few months older than she ; her name was Melissa , a name which a pious grandmother had borne , and was therefore retained in the family . 
`` To undeceive you , Alonzo , -LRB- continued Melissa -RRB- was the next object . 
Alonzo found by this narrative that John had deceived him when he made his enquiries of him concerning his knowledge of Melissa 's removal . 
But this was not surprising ; John was tenant to Melissa 's aunt and subservient to all her views ; she had undoubtedly given him instructions how to act . 
`` This I will also tell you -LRB- answered Melissa -RRB- though it unfolds a tale which reflects no great honour to my family . 
Alonzo then gave Melissa a minute account of all that happened to him from the time of their parting at the old mansion , until he met with her the day before . 
At the mention of Beauman 's fate , Melissa sighed . 
-- Alonzo told Melissa that he had received a letter from Edgar after he arrived in Holland , and that he had written him an answer , just as he left Paris , informing him of his reasons for returning to America . 
When the time arrived that Alonzo and Melissa were to set out for Connecticut , Melissa 's uncle and Alfred accompanied them as far as Georgetown , where an affectionate parting took place ; the latter returned to Charleston , and the former proceeded on their journey . 
Alonzo found Dr. Franklin 's agent at Chester , transacted his business , went on , arrived at Vincent 's , where he left Melissa , and proceeded immediately to his father 's . 
The friends of Alonzo and Melissa were joyfully surprised at their arrival . 
Melissa 's mother was sent for to Vincent 's . 
Alonzo then visited Melissa 's father , who received him with much complacency : `` I have injured -LRB- said he -RRB- my young friend , deeply injured you but in doing this I have inflicted a wound still deeper in my own bosom . '' 
In receiving her from your hands , I shall in some measure realize former anticipations ; I shall receive her in the character of Melissa ! '' 
-LRB- said Melissa 's father -RRB- were it in my power -- could I but give you the original ! 
Yes , my young friend , your request shall be punctually complied with ; I will take upon myself the preparations ; name your day , and if the lady is portionless , in that she shall be to me a Melissa . '' 
Invitations were once more sent abroad for the wedding of Alonzo and Melissa . 
Few , indeed , knew it to be the real Melissa , but they were generally informed of Alonzo 's reasons for preferring the celebration at her father 's . 
The evening before the day on which the marriage was to take place , Alonzo and Melissa were sitting with the Vincents in an upper room , when a person rapped at the door below . 
When the hour arrived , they repaired to the house of Melissa 's father , where numerous guests had assembled . 
Melissa was introduced into the bridal apartment , and took her seat among a brilliant circle of ladies . 
She was attired in robes `` white as the southern clouds , '' spangled with silver , and trimmed with deep gold lace ; her hair hung loosely upon her shoulders , encircled by a wreath of artificial flowers . 
She had regained all her former loveliness ; the rose and the lily again blended their tinges in her cheek ; again pensive sprightlinesssparkled in her eye . 
-- Alonzo was now introduced and took his seat at the side of Melissa ; his father and mother came next , who were placed at the right hand of the young couple , Melissa 's parents followed , and were stationed at the left ; Edgar then came and took his seat in front , after which the guests were summoned , who filled the room . 
Melissa was extremely agitated , as her father slowly rising , and with down cast eyes , `` where tides of heavy sorrow swelled , '' took her trembling hand , and conveying it into Alonzo 's , `` May the smiles of heaven rest upon you , -LRB- he said -RRB- may future blessings crown your present happy prospects -- and may your latter days never be embittered by the premature loss of near and dear -- '' Pungent grief here choaked his utterance , and at this moment , Melissa falling upon her knees , `` Dear father ! 
-- acknowledge your daughter -- your own Melissa ! '' 
Her father started -- he gazed at her with scrutinizing attention -- sunk back in his chair . 
Melissa 's father clasped her in his arms , `` and I receive thee as from the dead ! 
Melissa soon resumed her former station ; the indissoluble knot was tied , they sat down to the wedding feast , and mirth and hilarity danced in cheerful circles . 
Before the company retired , Edgar related the most prominent incidents of Alonzo and Melissa 's history , since they had been absent . 
The guests listened with attention ; they applauded the conduct of our new bride and bridegroom , in which Melissa 's father cordially joined . 
And now , reader of sensibility , indulge the pleasing sensations of thy bosom , for Alonzo and Melissa are MARRIED . 
A few days after the wedding , as Melissa was sitting with Alonzo , Edgar and her parents , she asked her father whether the old mansion was inhabited . 
Melissa then informed them of all that had happened when she was there , the alarming noises and horrible appearances she had been witness to , and in which she was confident her senses had not deceived her . 
Exceedingly astonished at her relation , it was agreed that Edgar and Alonzo , properly attended , should proceed to the mansion , in order to find whether any discoveries could be made which might tend to the elucidation of so mysterious an affair . 
The stranger then unfolded the mysteries of that awful night , when Melissa was so terrified by horrible appearances . 
One of the tallest and most robust of the gang , was attired as has been described when he appeared by her bed side . 
Thus accoutred he took his stand near Melissa 's bed , having first blown out the candles she had left burning , and discharged a small pistol . 
Perceiving this had awaked her , a train of powder was fired in the adjoining room , opposite the secret door , which was left open , in order that the flash might illuminate her apartment ; then several large cannon balls were rolled through the rooms over her head , imitative of thunder . 
The person in her room then uttered a horrible groan , and gliding along by her bed , took his stand behind the curtains , near the foot . 
The noises below , the cry of murder , the firing of the second pistol , and the running up stairs , were all corresponding scenes to impress terror on her imagination . 
The pretended ghost then advanced in front of her bed , while lights were slowly introduced , which first shone faintly , until they were ushered into the room by the private door , exhibiting the person before her in all his horrific appearances . 
On her shrieking , and shrinking into the bed , the lights were suddenly extinguished , and the person , after commanding her to be gone in a hoarse voice , passed again to the foot of the bed , shook it violently , and made a seeming attempt to get upon it , when perceiving her to be springing up , he fled out of the room by the secret door , cautiously shut it , and joined his companions . 
The operators had not yet completed their farce , or rather -LRB- to Melissa -RRB- tragedy . 
But as Melissa had now arisen and alighted candles , the plan was defeated . 
While they were consulting how to proceed , they heard her unlock her chamber-door , and slowly descend the stairs . 
Fearing a discovery , they retired with their lights , and the person who had been in her chamber not having yet stripped off his ghostly habiliments , laid himself down on one side of the hall . 
The man who had the image crowded himself with it under the stairs she was descending . 
On her dropping the candle when she turned to flee to her chamber from the sight of the same object which had appeared at her bed side , the person under the stairs presented the image at their foot , and at the same instant the combustible ball was prepared , and rolled through the hall ; and when on its bursting she fainted , they began to grow alarmed ; but on finding that she recovered and regained her chamber , they departed , for that time from the house . 
When Alonzo and Edgar returned home , and related their adventure , they were all surprised at the fortitude of Melissa in being enabled to support her spirits in a solitary mansion , amidst such great , and so many terrors . 
He consulted Melissa , and she expressively mentioned the little secluded village , where `` Ere fate and fortune frown 'd severe , '' The clergyman of the village having recently died in a good old age , Edgar was called to the pastoral charge of this unsophisticated people . 
-- Here did Melissa and Alonzo repose after the storms of adversity were past . 
Then would anxiety , incertitude and disconsolation possess the bosom of Melissa , until dissipated by his safe return . 
The parents of Alonzo and Melissa were their frequent visitors , as were also Vincent and his lady , with many others of their acquaintance , who all rejoiced in their happy situation , after such a diversity of troubles . 
Spring , with its verdured fields , flowery meads , and vocal groves ; its vernal gales , purling rills , and its evening whipperwill : summer , with its embowering shades , reflected in the glassy lake , and the long , pensive , yet sprightly notes of the solitary strawberry-bird ; -LSB- 15 -RSB- its lightning and its thunder : autumn , with its mellow fruit , its yellow foliage and decaying verdure : winter , with its hoarse , rough blasts , its icy beard and snowy mantle , all tended to thrill , with sensations of pleasing transition , the feeling bosoms of Alonzoand Melissa . 
eaf280.n3 -LSB- 3 -RSB- Of the place where Melissa was confined , as described in the foregoing pages , scarce a trace now remains . 
