Such habits produced their natural result , in imparting neatness and taste to her child ; and , therefore , much to the wonder of improvident and reckless neighbors , Emily Marvin , the widow 's little daughter , grew up totally unlike the squalid children on every floor of the Barracks -- never absenting herself from her mother to make acquaintances among the constantly-changing tenants , but learning , little by little , to imitate the widow 's industry , and unconsciously wearing her patched but spotless clothes with an easy grace that might have been remarked in quarters remote from this miserable tenant-house . 
Be that as it may , the mother denied herself many a comfort , in order that her daughter could go decently to a daily school , the result of which was that Emily , who was naturally quick and intelligent , became , at a very early age , possessed of much useful knowledge , while other children of her condition in the Barracks had learned only lessons of cunning or depravity . 
Well , in sooth , was the widow repaid for her privations and struggles , in the untiring devotion of her child , who strove by every mark of affection to prove her appreciation of so good a mother ; and it was pleasant to behold the two , in neat though humble garb , wending their way on Sunday to a neighboring church , or to listen in the evening at their door , when Emily read from the newspaper some stories of the great world that rolled its mighty tides of life beyond the narrow limits of a tenant-house court . 
School was resigned , and with it all the charms of school society , prized the more by Emily because so unlike the surroundings of Foley 's Barracks . 
Now , instead of tripping blithely away , with ready morning lessons , Emily hurried , though with no less blithe a footstep , to a hot , narrow back parlor , where , with half a dozen pale-faced girls , happy , like herself , to be employed , she plied the busy needle twelve hours every day , earning a scanty pittance by incessant work . 
But she hoped -- toiled and hoped ; for she was but a novice as yet , and flattered her young fancy with the prospect of soon ending her probationary apprenticeship , and becoming worthy to receive the wages of a finished workwoman . 
She knew not how many thousands , versed in all the mysteries of fashion 's paraphernalia , had hoped unto despair , and sunk by the wayside to death , perhaps to shame . 
Well for Emily that she was yet hopeful and ignorant . 
when the milliner 's apprentice was called away from her task , by a message from her mother , who , poor sufferer ! 
had concealed from her the rapid progress which disease was making ; choosing much rather to dwell upon every indication of favorable change ! 
The coals were blackening in the grate , and Emily 's limbs felt chilled and cramped . 
She shuddered as she looked out upon the great drifts of snow in the streets , and saw , above , how the house-smokes rose sluggishly upward from chimney-tops , as if half-congealed by the keen frost . 
Then , returning to the hearth , she gathered its few decaying embers together , essaying to rekindle the fire ; and as she did so , her mother stirred in the bed , and turned her face upon the pillow . 
Emily was by her side , in a moment , supporting the drooping head . 
`` My Emily ! '' 
`` My poor Emily ! '' 
Emily could not speak ; she only bent her head upon the pillow , while agonized sobs broke incessantly from her breast . 
cried the widow , clasping her attenuated hands around Emily 's neck . 
`` Pray with me , Emily ! '' 
When the last syllable trembled and rose solemnly , Emily lifted her cheek from the bosom where it had rested , and gazed through blinding tears upon her mother 's face ; but she beheld no light in the fixed eyes : naught but a smile -- bright flicker of a departing spirit -- upon the marble lip . 
She unclasped the thin arms that had enfolded her neck , and , as they fell inertly upon the bed , Emily knew that she was henceforth an orphan . 
But , even in that moment , when the sense of irremediable affliction fell heaviest , and the unutterable idea of loneliness settled gloomily around her , the influence of a mother 's dying prayer seemed to surround the child , as with sustaining wings of angels ; its cadences , though hushed in death , still vibrated in her memory , but more like triumphal numbers now -- the strains of an ascending seraph -- than the broken whispers of a daughter of poverty , perishing amid the wilderness of a tenant-house . 
Altogether , the appearance of this visitor was unexceptionably respectable ; nevertheless , Emily 's pale cheek grew whiter as she recognized him . 
I 'll have a chat with you!I like to chat with you , you know , '' said the man , with a leering smile , as he familiarly tapped Emily under the chin , still stamping the patent-leather boots , with a loud noise . 
`` But , sir , '' -- began the orphan , and burst into tears that checked her further speech . 
I 'm tol-lol , and ready for a chat with you , Emily . '' 
A fresh sobbing burst from Emily , as the poor girl tottered towards the bedside , attested the certainty of her orphanhood . 
answered Emily , looking up into the man 's face , with an expression so desolate that it might have awakened the sympathy of a savage . 
inquired Emily , seeming not to understand the remark . 
As she spoke , Emily emptied the contents of her purse upon the table , before her visitor . 
`` And the rent , Mr. Jobson , '' rejoined Emily , as if she read the man 's unspoken thoughts . 
Jobson smiled , as he uttered this , in a manner that caused Emily to drop her eyes to the floor , while a sensation of terror crept through her frame . 
`` If you would be so good as to speak to Mrs. Dumsey , when you go down , sir , '' -- `` Certainly , miss ; and anything I can do , you know , '' returned Jobson , approaching , and taking Emily 's small fingers in his own . 
He squeezed her hand , as he spoke , and patted the glossy ringlets that hung upon her white neck . 
`` You 'll not forget to speak to Mrs. Dumsey , '' said Emily , shrinking from Jobson 's touch , and anxious that he would depart . 
Jobson then rubbed his crimson face with the handkerchief of similar color , and , with a bow and smile -- both unheeded by the orphan , whose face had again sunk beside her mother 's -- stamped his patent-leather boots , sandals , and gold-headed cane out into the passageway , and thence down the narrow stairs . 
Emily breathed more freely when he had gone . 
and that g ` rl , Emily , all alone ! 
THE noon-day sun , shining coldly into Emily Marvin 's chamber , beheld her with heart uplifted still to the Father of Orphans , whilst the folded hands of her mother , clasped closely within her own , seemed , as they rested on the marble breast , to be a link between dead and living , even as the unuttered prayer was a union of earth with heaven . 
She now entered , accompanied by a cadaverous-looking lad , who held a spring tape-measure in his hand , which he drew out and let slip , with a jerk , to show his nonchalance , as he glanced from the body to Emily . 
`` It 's the undertaker 's assistant , '' whispered Mrs. Dumsey , taking the girl 's trembling hand , and leading her gently from the bed to her mother 's arm-chair , while the white-faced boy began , in a business-like way , to take the dimensions necessary for the selection of a coffin , pausing , at each stretch of his tape , to set down a figure , at the same time slowly turning his head towards his right shoulder , to catch a glimpse of Emily 's face ; all the time whistling , just audibly , like heavy breathing . 
Emily made no reply , and the day-nurse went on with her well-meant method of administering comfort , by remarking , in a decided tone , that , `` We 're all mortal critters , and liable to go , '' at which declaration , the sepulchral assistant looked over his shoulder , gave a sideling glance , and continued his ventriloquial whistle . 
Emily nodded her head , only half-listening to the good woman 's words ; and Mrs. Dumsey , encouraged by the reflection that she was comforting her distressed neighbor , went on , in the same strain , till the undertaker 's agent had finished his task , and , turning from the bed-side , approached them , leering stupidly . 
he asked , jerking his yellow chin toward Emily . 
And , hastily supporting Emily , the nurse began to rub her head and hands . 
she exclaimed . 
And her poor darter 's een ` most gone herself ! 
she continued , running to Emily 's side , and beginning to apply her hartshorn liberally . 
This information was given in a subdued tone , while the operation of bathing Emily 's forehead went steadily on . 
The stranger lingered a moment longer , glancing at the bed and at Emily , and evidently anxious to prolong the conversation ; but the duration of the orphan 's swoon had now begun to alarm her attendant , who redoubled her restorative measures . 
And truly , at this moment , to an admirer of statuesque beauty , the drooping form of Emily , as it reclined , half relieved against the chair-back , half supported by Mrs. Dumsey 's arm , presented a beautiful study . 
Poor Mrs. Dumsey was at her wit 's end ; but the eyes of Emily opening at this moment , withdrew her attention from intestine broils , and , like a good , tender-hearted woman , as she really was , she now bent kindly over the orphan , and whispered : `` Do you feel better , my poor dear ? '' 
Emily 's eyes once more awakened to the sight and her heart to the sense of sorrow ; for the dizziness of returning consciousness too soon gave place to a more bitter realization of her desolate position . 
Mrs. Dumsey then , in a mysterious manner , informed Emily concerning the recent visit of the stranger gentleman . 
Emily tried to rise from the chair , more to escape the nurse 's loquacity than for any object , and her glance wandered towards the table . 
Suddenly she exclaimed : `` I do not see it ! 
and she searched hurriedly in her bosom . 
asked the nurse , alarmed at Emily 's confusion . 
murmured poor Emily , sinking back in the chair . 
And covering her face with her hands , the orphan hurst into a flood of tears . 
The desolate orphan Emily was denied -- as those in her condition are ever denied -- the dear consolation of an unbroken period of secret grief , during which the memory of the beloved dead may inhabit and purify the heart . 
The dull , deadening sense of her own helplessness -- her utter friendlessness -- weighed upon her soul , mingling with the consciousness of her irreparable bereavement . 
Emily turned away , when this was proffered to her . 
The orphan touched her lips to the compound , and then placed the glass on the chair beside her . 
covered her slight form with the quilt , and sat beside , till a quiet slumber stole over Emily 's eyelids , and wrapt her mourning spirit in forgetfulness . 
WHEN the young gentleman who had found himself , as it seemed , unexpectedly within a tenant-room of Foley 's Barracks , and in presence of a dead mother and fainting daughter , departed to continue his search for Mr. Jobson , his mind was filled with conjectures regarding the spectacle just presented to his view -- involving , of course , speculations concerning Emily , and comparisons between her and Mrs. Dumsey not favorable to the latter -- all of which mental wool-gathering was interjected by expostulatory `` pshaws , '' and closed by an abrupt encounter with an individual , in broadcloth and patent-leathers , heretofore introduced to the reader . 
-- he saw Emily , it seems ! 
`` Emily ! '' 
exclaimed Emily , in a voice choked with sobs , as she clung convulsively to her friend 's bosom . 
-- dear Emily ! 
cried the seamstress , kissing the orphan again and again , and leading her gently to a chair , while her own tears began to flow , and her voice trembled with emotion . 
She sat down beside the maiden , then , and twined her arms lovingly about her neck . 
Emily , meanwhile , bowed her head upon her friend 's knees , while low moans broke incessantly from her lips , and gushing tears relieved her overburdened heart . 
It was some moments before this burst of sorrow , to which , upon the breast of her sympathizing companion , Emily unrestrainedly gave way , was calmed sufficiently to admit of speech . 
And , as the sweet , though tearful face of Emily was uplifted to that of her friend , and the latter 's meek eyes looked down with unspeakable pity , there fell also an influence of calm and confidence upon the orphan 's spirit , and she felt that she was not all alone in the wide world . 
Emily ! 
A little child , motherless , and without a friend who knows aught concerning her , is sleeping in that room with my own poor Harry ! 
`` 'T is true , dear Margaret , '' replied Emily , endeavoring to staunch her tears . 
Once more her head drooped , and sobs broke painfully from her breast . 
`` Dear Emily ! '' 
Emily raised her tearful eyes again . 
she answered . 
`` There whispers your dear mother 's spirit , Emily . 
Emily ! 
mymother , you know , died but two short years ago , and I have loved since to believe that her guardian care attends me . 
She was your mother 's friend , Emily ! 
Is it not a sweet thought , Emily ? '' 
The two friends tenderly embraced , and Emily whispered : -- `` I have always looked upon you , Margaret , as an elder sister , and now I feel that God has made you so indeed . '' 
She rose , in saying this , and taking the candle in her hand , led Emily to the bedroom , where reposed the children . 
she continued , shading the light with her hand , and turning down the coverlid , disclosing the two little ones , locked in each other 's arms , like babes of one mother . 
said Emily , stooping to kiss the sleeping infants . 
O Emily ! 
When they were again seated together in the outer room , Emily , now soothed into calmness , related to her friend the incidents following her mother 's death , embracing the loss of her purse , with nearly all her scanty stock of money . 
This , with much honest pride exhibited in her face , she announced as `` her own , and nobody 's else , and kept for rainy days , '' and then , and without more ceremony , proceeded to inform the orphan , that `` Mrs. Dumsey , and Mrs. Dumsey alone , for the sake of she that 's dead and gone , and a good woman she was , and as kind a neighbor as ever breathed the breath o ' mortal life , was a-going to bury the Widow Marvin at her own expense , and two carriages , and not a cent for Emily to trouble herself to pay . '' 
This determination , resolutely communicated to her young neighbor , was received with tearful gratitude , and a hope expressed by Emily that she might soon be able to repay the unexpected kindness , which relieved her of a load of uneasiness at that hour ; to which the generous nurse replied , that `` she need n't give herself a morsel of trouble , '' adding , with a smile , to raise the orphan 's spirits , that `` when she should marry a coach-and-four , she might refund the same . '' 
All this , with many tears , and blessings invoked upon her kindly neighbor , Emily now related to Margaret , concluding her recital by informing her that her mother 's funeral would take place upon the morrow , which was the Sabbath , and earnestly requesting her new sister to accompany her parent 's remains to their last resting-place . 
The seamstress promised to be ready ; and then , after another embrace of her friend , Emily prepared to depart . 
`` It is nine o'clock , '' she said , `` and good Mrs. Dumsey is waiting up for me . 
`` May the Almighty have you in his keeping , dear Emily ! '' 
Margaret Winston , clasping the orphan Emily 's hand , as they stood in the church-yard together , had listened , with her , to that sound so dismal to a mourner 's ear , the grating fall of gravel on the coffin 's lid , when the sexton cast his first clod into the grave , and the solemn words , `` ashes to ashes and dust to dust , '' trembled upon the preacher 's lips . 
And when , returning together in the single carriage which served for the funeral cortege , Emily leaned her head upon Margaret 's bosom , Mrs. Dumsey spoke kind words , in discreet consolation , and hushed Tommy 's noisy exclamations , as he remarked , with great delight , the objects which they passed ; showing herself , albeit unversed in social refinement , at least the possessor of that homely grace -- the art of doing good . 
It was evening when they arrived at Emily 's now lonesome home in Foley 's Barracks ; and it was on crossing its threshold that the most bitter realization of her bereavement smote the young girl 's heart . 
murmured Emily . 
Please God , Emily , there are many happy days in store for you ! '' 
A sigh , which the seamstress heaved , as she uttered these words , almost belied their hopefulness ; but she kissed Emily 's forehead , drawing her fondly to her breast . 
`` You must go home with me to-night , Emily . 
Emily returned convulsively the embrace which Margaret gave her , and stifling the sobs that were breaking out afresh , endeavored to summon calmness to her reflections . 
Then , acceding gratefully to the proposition which the seamstress had made , she took the latter 's arm , and , locking the door , they left in company the room that seemed no longer to be hometo Emily 's sorrowing spirit . 
Emily , weak and trembling , clung heavily to her companion 's arm , as they picked their way over the muddy pavement . 
But of such unselfish pity as animated Margaret 's brow , and of such tender confidence as soothed the heart of Emily , there might , alas ! 
Perhaps , on this account , the sewing-girls were in less danger of insult in those dark streets than they might have been in quarters lined with costly mansions ; nevertheless , it was not without trepidation that they pursued their way , clinging to one another , as they hastened past each dark-mouthed alley ; and it was with increased terror that , in turning a corner , they encountered the staggering figure of an intoxicated man , who stretched out his hand suddenly , as if to grasp the arm of Emily . 
The blare of horns , the wild turmoil of rushing men , and noisy clash of bells , nearly paralyzed Emily , and it was almost by main strength that Margaret drew her quickly backward to the porch of a dwelling-house , till the reckless multitude had passed . 
too common mêlée , Emily , more dead than alive , had been held closely in the arms of Margaret , who crouched in the shadow of the area where she had sought shelter , and there tremblingly awaited the result , dreading each moment that some rush of the infuriated young men would precipitate them upon her retreat , yet daring not to seek safety in flight , because on either side the street presented a scene of disorder . 
Margaret the seamstress -- yea , and Emily the orphan -- were aware of truths that political philosophy has but of late years begun to consider . 
HURRYING away from the scene of riot , Margaret and Emily paused not till they reached a quiet and secluded street , lined with plain but substantial mansions , at the corner of which stood an unpretending house ; its door painted of a bright green , gained by two marble steps , and displaying upon the centre a lion-headed knocker , thereby differing from its neighbors , which boasted the more modern appendage of bell-knobs . 
The seamstress modestly introduced her friend Emily to Mr. Granby , who , in turn , presented the two young girls to Mrs. George . 
Emily Marvin , who had remained beside her friend , likewise bent down at this moment , and said in a soft tone -- `` What is it for , dear ? 
Was it the instinct of her orphanage , or the prompting of some strange , superior power , that caused the child to turn suddenly , as Emily 's voice fell upon her ear -- to stretch out her delicate arms , as if in supplication -- while her eyes , blinded by tears , were uplifted , and her choked voice murmured -- `` Mother ! 
Caught abruptly to a strange but tender breast , clasped upon a heart that throbbed in anguish bitter as her own for a mother 's loss , the little one mingled her plaint with that of Emily , who sobbed a moment deeply , and then became fearfully still , just as the seamstress , extending her arms , received the relaxed form of her young friend in their sustaining clasp . 
`` She has fainted , sir , '' whispered Margaret to Mr. Granby , as the young girl 's head dropped backward , disclosing the deathly pallor of her features ; and at this announcement , the ruffled remnant of Mrs. George 's dignity vanished instantly , and the good lady became at once the active hostess and kindly nurse ; so that , under the operation of hastily-mustered restoratives , Emily Marvin soon recovered her animation , and was able to listen languidly to Margaret 's simple narrative of the scenes in which they had both participated during the latter portion of her sorrowful Sabbath . 
Mr. Granby 's sympathies were awakened freshly by the new and interesting object presented to them , and he heard with great satisfaction of Margaret 's intention to unite her domestic life with that of Emily . 
But Mrs. George , though lacking in genteel deportment that evening , did not , as it appeared , sink at all in the estimation of either Mr. Granby or his servant Samson ; for it was noticeable that , during a temporary absence of the housekeeper from the library , after Emily had been recovered , a quick interchange of glances passed between master and man , and the old gentleman whispered in his sable friend 's ears , that `` Mrs. George was a kindhearted woman , after all , '' to which Samson responded by the emphatic word `` berry ; '' and it is furthermore matter worthy of record , that when , shortly afterwards , Margaret and Emily , with Harry and Fanny , took their farewell for the evening , Mrs. George not only shook hands warmly with both the sewing-girls , but saluted their pale cheeks with a real matronly kiss , and then actually stooped and kissed the children , not forgetting Bob the Weasel , who thus , for the first time in his life , felt the touch of woman 's lips upon his poor face , and thereafter , when he was safe in bed , cried a whole hour about it , in very joy . 
EMILY and Margaret were both early risers , and on the Monday morning following their night 's companionship , after Harry and Fanny had been dressed and served with their simple meal , and the two girls had also breakfasted , they sat down to consult upon Emily 's future plans . 
It was arranged that Emily should remain in the apartments at Foley 's Barracks , so long the home of her mother , and that , after the close of a week , Margaret should remove from Kolephat College , to reside with her adopted sister -- not only because their dwelling together would be more economical for both , but because the tenant-house in which Emily resided was in a somewhat better neighborhood , bad as it might be , than the squalid locality under Peleg Ferret 's supervision , and the rooms , moreover , were larger and less inconvenient to reach . 
echoed Emily . 
continued the seamstress , presently , drawing to her knee the child , who had been conning an alphabet with Harry . 
said Emily . 
for , only think of the number of children living in Kolephat College , or Foley 's Barracks , or '' -- `` Or any other tenant-house , Emily ! 
cried Emily . 
cried Emily , throwing herself , weeping , upon her friend 's breast , `` you are doing good all the time . 
`` Hush , Emily ! '' 
`` Come -- I was forgetting entirely my morning duties , Emily ! '' 
But , Emily , dear , you are wondering who we are talking about . 
`` Now , come with me , Emily , '' cried she gaily , and led the way , followed by the wondering orphan , out into the passage-way , and up the rickety staircase that led to the room of Mallory the Miser . 
Emily , '' she added , turning to her companion , `` am I not a good nurse ? '' 
Emily shuddered , and drew back , as her glance encountered that of the miser ; but Margaret only bent nearer , and laid her hand softly upon his . 
`` Good-by , '' said Margaret , smiling pleasantly ; and then , taking Emily 's arm , hurried noiselessly from the room , and down the stairs , while Mallory turned over moodily on his pillow . 
said the seamstress , when , with Emily , she reached her own apartments . 
Emily , meantime , prepared to depart for Foley 's Barracks , whence she designed to go at once to her place of employment ; for the poor have no leisure to devote to idle grief , even though dearest ones are taken from them . 
Mrs. Florette , the modiste , spoke very kindly to her , indeed , inquiring concerning her recent bereavement , and there were looks and words of sympathy from some who had known affliction like herself ; but still memory would dwell upon her loss , and tears blinded the eyes of poor Emily , as she bent them closely upon the fabric she was sewing . 
`` Oh , indeed , Madame Florette , I am very thankful to you , '' answered Emily , the tears rising more thickly to her eyes . 
The other needlewomen congratulated Emily on the good fortune , as they all esteemed it , which had befallen her ; and , in truth , it was good fortune to be permitted to leave the hot atmosphere of that close work-room , and breathe , even though for a brief season , in the light-some , airy rooms that wealth and taste make common to their possessors , but which , to the dwellers between tenant-house walls , or in narrow places of toil , seem like far-off Edens of social life . 
Emily felt instantly attracted to this lady , who took her hand , and said , in a low , sweetly-modulated voice -- `` Madame Florette has been speaking to me of your skill in needlework , Miss ; and she permits me to take you home with me -- if you are willing ! '' 
`` Oh , madam , I shall try to deserve , '' -- Emily paused , trembling with emotion . 
`` We shall get along very well , I am sure , '' said the stranger , with a re-assuring smile , in noticing Emily 's agitation . 
Emily answered in the affirmative , and shook hands with Mrs. Florette . 
There are some rare natures in this world of ours , that possess the happy power to diffuse , as it were , an aroma of consolation and peace upon all around them ; and it was in the presence of such a nature that Emily Marvin now found herself . 
The lady sighed deeply as she spoke , and Emily fancied that a tear trembled on her eyelid . 
said Emily . 
In such conversation , the afternoon of Emily 's first employment in the house of her new friend , passed quickly away , and long before twilight , the lady bade her lay aside the needle , and sit at the little tea-table spread for herself in the boudoir ; and afterwards , when , bidding good-night , she left the mansion , with its rich furniture and soft carpets , and ornamented walls , to hurry homeward to Foley 's Barracks , Emily felt as if she had left behind a kindly vision , out of which followed her always a pale face , full of sorrowful thought , but very sweet and beautiful . 
At Foley 's Barracks , the vision vanished all away , and only her mother 's bed , in the lone chamber , appeared , causing the orphan to sit down , weeping bitterly , and feeling herself desolate again . 
But a voice , rough , but cheerful , interrupted the grief to which she was giving way . 
I heard your step on the stairs , and says to 'Till , says I , ` That 's Emily Marvin , I do believe ! ' 
I do believe I 'm getting short-winded , Miss , '' she said , apologetically , and was about to repeat her summons , but Emily interposed . 
Emily protested that she had taken tea , but Mrs. Dumsey would hear no denial of her hospitality , averring that `` the poor child must be half starved , '' and that she herself had `` all sorts o ' news '' to tell her ; so that , in a few moments , the orphan was obliged to be seated at the good nurse 's table , opposite to its portly mistress , with the female scions of the race on either hand , and Master Thomas making mouths at her , while he sulked behind his mother 's chair . 
asked Emily , looking surprised . 
Emily admitted the correctness of this assertion , whereupon Mrs. Dumsey , who was manifestly impatient to make her revelation , informed the orphan that it was -- `` a gentleman . '' 
Emily remained silent , not knowing how to reply to the loquacity of her hostess , who thereupon , with many mysterious winks and shrugs , rose from the table , and went to her little back room , whence she returned immediately , bearing triumphantly aloft a fragrant hot-house bouquet . 
Saying this , the good woman handed Emily the bouquet , after a long inhalation of its perfume , and then proceeded to relate how the `` nice young gentleman -- Mr. Peyton was his name -- and sich eyes was in his head '' -- had left this bunch of posies `` for herself and nobody else , with his compliments , and would call again . '' 
`` Call again , '' said Emily . 
Mrs. Dumsey only smiled , and remarked that `` people took likings sometimes , and no wonder to her , for somebody sheknew was good and pretty enough to be a queen , like Cinderella and the glass slipper ; '' and then she patted the orphan 's cheek , and bent her good-natured face down , to take another `` sniff '' of the `` posies , '' while Emily remained silent , half-frightened at receiving the gift , and yet not displeased , in her young heart , at the thought of having inspired an interest in the stranger who had left it . 
Neither unnatural nor unfeminine was her emotion , and He who read the orphan 's heart might pardon the innocent vanity that made her smile , even through tears , as she looked at the fragrant flowrets . 
A little while afterwards , when Tommy had been `` pacified '' by summary incarceration in the back room , and Mrs. Dumsey had enjoyed a parting inhalation of the bouquet , Emily bade good-by to her hostess , and passing down the staircase of Foley 's Barracks , and out upon the streets , clasping the flowers under her shawl , hurried towards the dwelling of her friend and sister , Margaret . 
She had not proceeded far , however , before her name was uttered by a man who followed closely , and turning , she recognized in the light of a street-lamp -- for it was now dusk -- the well-known figure of Mr. Jobson . 
said Emily , respectfully , as the agent took her hand . 
Then , answering his question , she remarked that she was going but a short distance , to call upon a friend . 
Emily 's heart sank , as she heard this ; for she was aware of a month 's rent being in arrears , and feared that Mr. Jobson had called in relation to that . 
`` Please , sir , '' she said , hesitatingly , `` if it would not be asking too much , I shall earn enough by next week ; and '' -- `` Oh ! 
do n't , I beg , trouble yourself about the rent , Miss. '' Emily raised her glance , in wonder , at the agent 's face , as he walked beside her ; for this unusual manifestation of forbearance on the part of one proverbial , in the tenant-house , for exacting the uttermost farthing of rent , on the very morning when due , appeared a real miracle of benevolence . 
But , if she desired to express a grateful sense of her appreciation of Jobson 's kindness , the wish was checked suddenly , as she noticed the peculiar look with which the broker was regarding her -- a look beneath which her own gaze sank instantly abashed ; and she felt troubled and perplexed -- she knew not why . 
Emily replied that she liked to be employed , whereupon Mr. Jobson remarked that `` all work and no play made Jack a dull boy , '' and that a young lady ought not to kill herself for other people . 
-- `` But I must work , to live , Mr. Jobson , '' said Emily . 
Emily said she did not mind it . 
`` Yes -- I love school , '' said Emily , sighing , in remembrance of pleasant hours , ere the illness of Widow Marvin had rendered it necessary for her daughter to take up the routine of daily toil . 
Emily glanced again at Jobson , who had paused in the walk , and fixed his eyes upon her face . 
Nevertheless , there was an unaccountable something about the worthy agent , as he thus displayed himself to the young sewing-girl , that impressed her with emotions very different from those of gratitude at the kind intentions expressed in his language . 
She felt , indeed , that she would rather be away from the side of this smooth gentleman in broadcloth , who had declared himself `` an old friend of the family ; '' that she would rather be , that moment , in the little room of her friend the seamstress , with Margaret 's clear eyes shining down upon her ; and , unconsciously , as it were , at the same time , she pressed to her bosom the bouquet that she held beneath her shawl , as if she would rather think of that , and its fragrance , than of the words which Jobson had just spoken so softly to her . 
Perhaps the contact of those sweet flowers imparted strength to Emily -- perhaps their perfume made her less fearful of the agent ; for , the next moment , she found courage to say -- `` Mr. Jobson , I shall never go back to school ! 
The tone in which Emily uttered her last words was so distinct , and her clear eyes rested so calmly upon his own , that , albeit he was landlord and she tenant -- he creditor and she delinquent debtor -- he , man of means and authority , and she timid , shrinking maiden -- yet , for the first time in his life , Mr. Jobson felt bereft of his dignity , and humbled in the presence of poverty and weakness . 
He walked a few steps farther , beside the sewing-girl , and essayed a remark or two , interjected with attempts to clear his throat , but he was glad when the next corner was reached , giving him an opportunity of bidding his `` little lady '' an abrupt goodbye , after which , with some violent rappings of his cane 's ferule against the pavement , he walked hastily away , leaving Emily to hurry onward in the direction of Kolephat College , where she soon arrived , and threw herself , breathless and weeping , into the arms of the kind seamstress . 
Perhaps it was the memory of other days , in her own experience , that imported a sorrowing cast to the smile with which Margaret took from Emily 's hand the bunch of flowers that she had kept close in her bosom ; perchance the sigh which the seamstress heaved had much to do with blossoms that once nestled near her own heart , but had withered since , leaving only the ashes of their crumbled leaves as tokens that they once existed . 
But if aught of bitterness was recalled to Margaret 's recollection , as she now listened to Emily 's relation , no shadow fell from her transparent forehead upon her young friend 's face . 
Her voice was soft as ever , and her glance kindly . 
she murmured ; `` so fresh and sweet in this cold winter month ! '' 
not for Rob -- for -- for '' -- `` Well , dear , '' said Emily encouragingly , as she noticed that the child hesitated , and raised her dove-like eyes timidly towards the seamstress . 
exclaimed Emily , the tears gushing to her eyes , as she quickly disengaged a portion of the bouquet . 
It was then agreed that Fanny should accompany Margaret , when the latter went with her customary bowl of gruel to Mallory 's room ; meantime , Emily and the seamstress continued their conversation , the former dwelling much upon that kind lady who had engaged her services in making up dresses in the fine house up town . 
`` Ah , Emily ! 
he cried , piteously ; and at the moment , Margaret 's form relaxed , and she would have fallen from her chair , had not Emily caught her in her arms . 
There was an instant consternation in the little circle , Harry clinging to his sister 's arm , and Fanny beginning to weep , while Emily felt the greatest alarm in witnessing her friend 's pallid face , closed eyes , and parted lips , as she supported her . 
Exerting all her strength , she succeeded in placing the insensible seamstress in a recumbent position , her head sustained by a pillow that Harry brought immediately , together with a vial of hartshorn , which restorative she applied to the poor girl 's nostrils and temples . 
At the same time , she spoke soothingly to the boy , assuring him that his sister would quickly revive . 
asked Emily , much agitated at Margaret 's situation . 
But , when the seamstress , still pale and weak , leaned back in her chair , and said that she `` was subject '' to these fainting-fits , and that they were `` soon over , '' though , indeed , the doctor feared they would `` sometime be fatal , '' then Emily realized -- though she made no remark -- how much of lonesome suffering , how much of patient endurance , must have been the portion of this uncomplaining one , toiling , through long days and nights , and sinking at times from exhaustion upon the floor , while her infant brother was at school . 
And it was with deeper sisterly affection than she had before felt that Emily kissed her friend 's lips , and clasped to her bosom with renewed interest the now happy and prattling children . 
WHEN Mr. Jobson , the benevolent broker , diverged from the side of Emily Marvin , his feelings of disappointment at the orphan 's decided rejection of his liberal offers of protection , found vent in sundry tossings of the head and smackings of the lips , as though he would have given utterance to -- `` Ha , ha ! 
On a round wooden stand near him stood a broken tumbler , half filled with water , and containing also the few withered flowers which Fanny had obtained from Emily Marvin , as a gift to the forlorn miser . 
Meantime , in view of her new duties , Margaret remained in her old apartments of Kolephat College , and Emily Marvin , dreading a repetition of Mr. Jobson 's proffers of friendship , removed from Foley 's Barracks , and engaged a room contiguous to that tenanted by her friend . 
This , it is true , she seldom occupied , her week-days being passed at the residence of kind Mrs. Richmond , who still gave employment to her , and with the sympathy of a good heart made each day 's industry attractive to the orphan 's nature . 
Emily loved to talk to Margaret of her new patroness -- of the sad grace which entered into all her movements -- of her thoughtfulness and care for dependants and the poor . 
She had promised , Emily said , to come , when the spring opened , and see the school at Kolephat College ; but her health was not good at present , and she dared not venture out , even in her carriage . 
But Emily had never seen Mr. Richmond , she said , in answer to a question of Margaret 's -- only his portrait that hung upon the wall . 
But it was ever a theme of wonder to the young girl , how a lady like Mrs. Richmond , so amiable , with such a fine-looking husband , and surrounded by every luxury , could yet seem so unhappy ; and then Emily would talk of the elegant velvet carpets , the rosewood covered with blue and gold , and green and gold brocades , the curiously carved lables and étagerès and eseritoires , and medallion chairs ; the mahogany and oak furniture , the pictures and chandeliers -- all the accumulations of wealth , and art , and taste -- ah ! 
and was it not sad , at last , to hear from her lips the expression of her pity for one who possessed them -- `` Poor Mrs. Richmond ! 
This one was apparently about fifty years of age , yellow-skinned , and villainously low-browed , with tangled elf-locks depending on his muscular neck ; beside him sat a cadaverous-looking youth , with greenish eyes , whom Emily Marvin or good Mrs. Dumsey would have recognized at once as the coffinmaker 's lad , the pilferer of the orphan girl 's purse ; and near this worthy was the bull-necked young man who had figured with him in the fireman 's conflict , and who wore now , as on that occasion , a shirt of flaming red , with large bone buttons on its bosom . 
said Mr. Granby to the seamstress , as she sat one evening in his quiet library , with Emily Marvin , who had become a favorite of the good old man , as well as of Mrs. George , the housekeeper . 
cried Emily Marvin , who had followed her friend . 
Emily looked up , and met the glance of a young gentleman , one of the two persons who had supported the injured stranger . 
Emily was about to answer , when Mr. Granby interposed -- `` Whoever he be , '' said the old gentleman , `` it is plain that he should at once have medical aid . 
He glanced at Emily Marvin , but the orphan seemed as much perplexed as himself , in regarding her adopted sister , who , after wiping the blood from Richmond 's cheeks and brow , murmured , in an appealing tone -- `` Oh , will not assistance come ? 
Mr. Granby and Emily marvelled to behold the brightness which flashed for an instant over Margaret Winston 's pale face , as , with heaving bosom and yearning look , she stooped forward , till her cheek almost touched the damp and bloody curls upon Richmond 's brow . 
here exclaimed Emily Marvin , to whose thought the image of that unhappy wife had been presented constantly , as she regarded the dying husband . 
Emily Marvin 's eyes fell beneath Peyton 's glance , and her cheek burned under the tears that bedewed it ; but the young man lost no time in departing on his sad mission , and the orphan , wondering at the interest in herself which his manner had seemed to manifest , turned towards Margaret Winston , who still knelt beside the dying Richmond . 
Thus the evening had drawn on ; and when the school-children went to their homes , Fanny , and Rob Morrison , and Harry Winston , and poor Moll , the orphan child , remained with Mallory , whilst Margaret and Emily Marvin went out to visit , for a few hours , their friend and benefactor , Mr. Granby -- there to become participants , not only in the quiet family devotions that made the Samaritan 's household so pleasant , but , alas ! 
Emily Marvin followed , led by Harry Peyton , who , as he clasped her hand , looked upon her beautiful face , and dreamed , for the first time since he had lost Helen Ellwood , of love and , perchance , happiness yet in store for him . 
The spendthrift , Henry Peyton , will borrow no more money from the Jobsons and other speculators on the luxuries or necessities of others ; for he has become rich again , by an uncle 's will , and is withal a wiser and a happier man , and will be yet happier when Emily Marvin , the poor widow 's orphan , shall lay her hand in his , and call him `` husband ! '' 
