About the latter end of the fifteenth century , on the birth-night of the young Victoria de Loredani , most of the youthful nobility of any rank in Venice were assembled at the pallazzo of her parents to do honour to the festival -- the hearts of all appeared in unison with the hilarity of the scene ; even the lovely and haughty Victoria smiled with an unchecked vivacity ; for no fair Venetian had presumed to vie with her , either in beauty of person , or splendour of decoration . 
Another circumstance contributed to elevate her spirits , and render her triumph complete . 
Leonardo , her brother , ever haughty and turbulent in his manners , had acknowledged that she outshone every female present . 
The consequence was , that Victoria , though at the age of fifteen , beautiful and accomplished as an angel , was proud , haughty , and self-sufficient -- of a wild , ardent , and irrepressible spirit , indifferent to reproof , careless of censure -- of an implacable , revengeful , and cruel nature , and bent upon gaining the ascendancy in whatever she engaged . 
Victoria , as the young divinity of the festival , was presented to him by her beautiful and scarce less blooming mother : the eyes of the count dwelt momentarily upon her charms ; he complimented her with politeness , but not with warmth , and turned immediately to the Marchesa with an air so expressive of admiration , that an insignificant observer might have remarked the difference of his regards . 
Not on the young , the ardent , and self-confident Victoria but on her lovely and attractive mother ! 
Victoria , thus the idol , the hope , and only solace of the heart-broken Marchese , was become the deity to which the house looked up : her word was law throughout ; and to dispute the smallest of her wishes , would have been deemed amounting to sacrilege . 
Ever of a bold and towering spirit , haughty , fond of sway , it was with difficulty that her partial mother could occasionally administer a slight reproof ; but now , with an unlimited scope for the growth of these dangerous propensities , they bade fair soon to overtop the power of restriction . 
Vainly did the Marchese hope that time , by maturing her reason , and improving her ideas , would correct the wrong bias of her character ; for strict education alone can correct the faults in our nature ; they will not correct themselves . 
Thus , though Victoria in childhood gave proofs of what is termed , somewhat injudiciously , a corrupt nature , yet a firm and decided course of education would so far have changed her bent , that those propensities , which by neglect became vices , might have been ameliorated into virtues . 
To add to his unhappiness , the society of Victoria was generally shunned , not in reality on account of the disgrace brought upon her by her mother 's conduct , but on account of her own violent and overbearing disposition , which rendered her obnoxious to the young nobility of Venice . 
One evening , about a year having elapsed since the departure of Laurina , as she sat in sullen silence by her sorrowing parent , he turned affectionately towards her , and said -- `` Wherefore , Victoria , dost thou debar thyself of the amusements befitting thine age and situation , to sit in chearless solitude with me ? 
Victoria haughtily returned -- `` Because they would neither come to me , nor suffer me to go to them . '' 
`` Because my mother has disgraced us , '' gloomily replied the unfeeling Victoria . 
The cruel Victoria had roughly touched a string that reverberated to agony ! 
The Marchese feebly waved his hand -- Victoria was called : she entered the room with slow and trembling steps -- she gazed upon the death-marked features of her father with horror and regret -- horror at the situation in which she saw him , and regret at the thought of having given him , a few hours before , a pang so deep . 
Of this emotion was Victoria susceptible ; therefore , at this moment , her heart was not utterly depraved . 
She approached the bed-side of her father -- her naturally stubborn heart now deeply and profoundly affected . 
The dying Marchese stretched forth his parched and trembling hand ; she took it ; and , pressing it to her bosom , sunk upon her knees beside him . 
-- my Victoria ! '' 
-- My Victoria , correct , if thou canst , the errors of thy disposition -- think upon what we are -- think on life , how unsure , how unstable is its possession ! 
The exertion which , from a principle of duty , he forced himself to make , struck forcibly to the heart of Victoria . 
The time was past midnight -- a pale lamp emitted its faint rays over the spacious chamber , and shewed the pallid features of her father -- of that father whose love for her , even in death , taught him to despise his own agony . 
The scene impressed her imagination , and his words her mind ; while the silence , the gloomy silence , that reigned around , was only interrupted by her sobs . 
The wan hand of the Marchese hung over the bed -- Victoria held it to her heart : his dim eyes were fixed upon her with an expression of love and bitter regret -- `` Oh my Victoria ! 
So saying , the frantic Laurina threw herself prostrate on the ground by the side of the bed where lay her dying husband , cut off , by her guilt and misconduct , in the flower of his life . 
Loredani succeeded for an instant in raising his head upon his hand : a heavenly and celestial expression irradiated his features ; he gazed upon the prostrate wretch beside him with the look of a pitying angel ; then , motioning to Victoria , he said -- `` Retire , my child , for a moment . '' 
When she was withdrawn -- `` Laurina ! '' 
She raised herself upon her knees , but covered her face with her hands . 
-- When I am laid in the grave , seek out , if possible , thy son -- that son who fled his home , on discovery of thy perfidy -- seek him ; and , if it should please Heaven that thou shouldst prove successful , retire with him , and thy daughter Victoria , far from Venice ; for Venice , methinks , is no longer a place for thee . 
-- Never will the impression of this night fade from the mind of Victoria , if thou wilt yet have courage and resolution to abandon thy guilty career , and to instil into her mind , by thy future example , principles of virtue and honour . 
`` I swear -- `` Let my Victoria enter , '' said the Marchese , gasping for breath : `` I have -- I have not a moment to live ! '' 
Laurina rose , and bade Victoria enter . 
As she approached -- `` Quick , my child ! '' 
articulated Laurina , in a voice drowned by sobs , and pressed convulsively her daughter to her bosom . 
`` Victoria -- swear ! '' 
in a solemn voice , answered Victoria . 
-- With Victoria , the innocent sufferer for her mother 's crimes , it is my intention to quit immediately the roof under which I am : I shall retire for a time into a remote province -- then , when the remembrance of my infamy has ceased , I shall again endeavour to mix with society -- not for my own sake , but for the sake of that daughter I have so cruelly wronged ; ask not , therefore , to see me , for the request will be vain . 
It ran thus -- `` You would retire from Venice with your daughter -- Mark me , Laurina -- with me there is no trifling -- leave at midnight your present abode , and bring with you Victoria . 
At midnight , Laurina , accompanied by Victoria , left the Palazzo Loredani . 
Gradually and imperceptibly their intercourse , now doubly criminal , became dearer and more strongly cemented than ever : yet was the wretched farce of journeying in various directions , and even to considerable distances , -LRB- under the pretext of discovering some suitable situation for the young Victoria and her deluded mother -RRB- steadily persevered in ; for , did not Ardolph know , that change of scene was conducive to the plans he had in view , of restraining from compunctious reflection the mind of Laurina ? 
and by so ordering , that in his society she should experience no moment of melancholy , make her view with horror the idea of abandoning him , and secure her entirely to himself . 
Infatuated by his seductions , Laurina sought , eagerly sought , to evade reflection ; and as a wretch writhing with pain flies to the relief of opium , so did Laurina , from the pangs of conscience , to the soothing and intoxicating presence of him who destroyed her ; for could she ever endure the secret horrible conviction of her guilt -- that she had rushed from the deathbed of her husband -- from where his sainted spirit still lingered , to the very arms of his murderer ! 
-- that she had forfeited her solemn vow , which his soul had tarried to hear sworn ? 
-- Could she , even with all the aid of sophistry , attempt to seek in her own mind a palliation of this ? 
-- She had no resource , then , but in Ardolph ; in his eyes she idolatrously beheld an excuse for her crimes , and in his fascinating voice was recorded a temptation she imagined no heart could have resisted . 
Under this impression , he regarded , with eyes of no common interest , the young Victoria : pride alone forbade his soliciting her hand ; for never yet had Berenza beheld a female whose character he had imagined so formed to constitute his happiness : nay , so ardent in his admiration was the misguided philosopher -- misguided in this instance -- that , had so dishonour in his idea been attached to the unfortunate girl , he would have made her his wife upon speculation , and relied upon the power he believed himself to possess over the human mind for modelling her afterwards , so as perfectly to assimilate to his wishes . 
Berenza knew not , so unconscious is the heart of man of the springs of its own movements , that it was the graceful elegant form , and animated countenance of Victoria , that led him to form of her strongly-marked character the best and most flattering estimate . 
She was at this period about seventeen : the age of Berenza was five and thirty ; his person was majestic , and his countenance , though serious , possessed a sweetness of expression , that riveted and delighted the eye : but it was not this so much that engaged the attentions and allured the fancy of the young Victoria -- no , it was the flattering remark that herself exclusively attracted his regards -- regards , which the natural haughtiness , and apparent coldness of his character , rendered peculiarly gratifying to her vain mind . 
It was for this she sought his society , and courted his notice , till Berenza , wound almost to a pitch of enthusiasm , scarcely lived but in the hope of calling her his . 
Attachments his philosophic mind had none , excepting to a brother some years younger than himself , who was at this time absent from Italy , to divert the melancholy of an almost hopeless passion : his thoughts and wishes , therefore , centered in Victoria with undivided ardour . 
It may naturally be supposed that the character of Victoria , by nature more prone to evil than to good , and requiring at once the strong curb of wisdom and example to regulate it , had not , since the death of her father , obtained much opportunity of improvement . 
She saw exemplified , in the conduct of her mother , the flagrant violation of a most sacred oath -- she saw every principle of delicacy and of virtue apparently contemned -- and , although the improper bias of her mind led her infinitely to prefer the gay though horrible state of degradation in which she lived , to the retirement and seclusion so strongly insisted on by the dying Marchese , yet had she reflection and discrimination enough , fully to perceive and condemn the flagitious disregard those dying commands had received . 
But Victoria was a girl of no common feelings -- her ideas wildly wandered , and to every circumstance and situation she gave rather the vivid colouring of her own heated imagination , than that of truth . 
Berenza had awakened in her breast feelings and passions which had till now remained dormant , mighty and strong , like the slumbering lion , even in their inactivity . 
She had ever contemplated the seductive , and , in appearance , delightful union of her mother with Ardolph , with such sentiments as were at the time inexplicable to herself ; but when Berenza singled her out , when he addressed her in the language of love , she then discovered that her sentiments were those of envy , and of an ardent consuming desire to be situated like that unhappy mother -- like her , to receive the attentions , listen to the tenderness , and sink beneath the ardent glances of a lover . 
But it happened that the heart of Berenza had acquired a real passion , while that of Victoria was susceptible only of novel and seducing sensations -- of anticipations of future pleasure . 
Berenza loved -- Victoria was only roused and flattered . 
Upon consideration , but not certainly impartial consideration , the enamoured philosopher concluded that it would not be an act of baseness or guilt to withdraw Victoria from her present dangerous and ineligible situation -- to acknowledge his passion to her , and induce her , if possible , to abandon the contaminated roof under which she resided . 
The pride of the Venetian , however , must have been stronger than his love , for it rejected the idea of making her his wife ; while he determined to leave no means untried to cause her to become his mistress . 
Pursuant to this idea he sought the earliest opportunity of obtaining a private interview with Victoria . 
An opportunity early presented itself ; and having declared to his delighted auditress the ardent love with which she had inspired him , he delicately but frankly proposed to her the plan upon which he had for some time past suffered himself to dwell enraptured . 
The boldly organised mind , the wild and unrestrained sentiments of Victoria , prevented her from being offended at the proposition of Berenza : had she for an instant conceived , that his strict ideas deemed her incapable of being legally his , she must , with all her desire for a lover , have spurned him indignantly from her ; but pride here acted as the preservative of pride , and her vanity easily led her to believe that Berenza thought marriage a degrading and unnecessary tie to love like his . 
Under this impression she gave him her hand : Berenza seized it with ardour , as the earnest of consent ; and , seating himself at the feet of his mistress , who smiled with high and unusual joy , he entered more fully into his arrangements , and the means by which be proposed she should quit Monte Bello unsuspected . 
Victoria listened with lively emotions ; pleasure flushed triumphant her animated cheek , and shone in her wild eyes with an almost painful brilliancy : her heart glowed with the love of enterprize ; she felt capable of deeds which , though in their conception they dilated and seduced her soul , she could neither comprehend nor identify ; but she felt inspired for action , and the enthusiasm which burnt in her bosom , lighted up every feature with lambent and etherial fire . 
Suddenly , in the very midst of her felicitations , while Berenza , still at her feet , was pouring in her intoxicated ears his various plans for their future happiness , in rushed , rage and horror depicted in her countenance , the half frantic Laurina ! 
she exclaimed , seizing violently the arm of Victoria -- `` wretch ! 
is it thus you recompence the hospitality of Count Ardolph , in seeking to seduce our only happiness , the innocent Victoria ? '' 
The eyes of the conscience-struck Laurina sought for an instant the ground -- her countenance became suffused with a guilty blush -- her heart beat with violence , and scarcely could she support her trembling frame ! 
Berenza , with dignified calmness , took the hand of Victoria -- `` I do not , '' he continued , in a firm deliberate voice , `` I do not plead guilty to the charge of attempting to seduce your daughter . 
`` Victoria , '' cried Laurina , recovering from her agitation , but awed by the manner of Berenza from replying to him -- `` Victoria , I command you to leave the room -- yes , for the first time in my life , I command you never more to hold converse with Il Conte Berenza ! '' 
Berenza fixed his proud and enquiring eyes upon the countenance of Victoria . 
Whether she caught a spark of the fire which emanated from them , or thus for the first time asserted the bold and independent sentiments of her bosom , is immaterial ; but , withdrawing proudly her hand from Berenza , as though she needed not his aid , and advancing a few steps towards her mother , she thus replied -- `` That you never , Signora , commanded me till now , is true ; that you command me now , when it is too late , is equally so . 
`` Oh , Victoria ! 
-- Victoria ! 
exclaimed Laurina , clasping her hands , and now beginning to feel the terrible commencement of those retributive pangs so justly ordained as the punishment of those parents who corrupt their children -- `` Art thou mad , my child ? 
contemptuously returned Victoria . 
sternly replied the torturing Victoria . 
-- oh , Victoria ! '' 
she replied . 
Had you but kept the oath -- the oath , mother , that -- that you swore at the death-bed of my father -- '' The images conjured up by the forked tongue of a reproaching child , were too much even for the guilty Laurina to endure ; and , in a convulsion of irrepressible anguish , she sunk upon the floor . 
Berenza , who had at first listened with delight and surprize to the independence of spirit , as he considered it , evinced by the undaunted Victoria , now became visibly shocked at her persevering and remorseless cruelty to a mother , whose personal tenderness for her had at least merited some little gratitude . 
Scarcely willing to analyse if his love for her had not already somewhat diminished by the display of a trait so offensive to a delicate and feeling mind as filial ingratitude and unkindness , he approached , and raised Laurina from the floor . 
When she became in a degree recovered , he assisted her , with respectful forbearance , to her chamber ; and whispering to Victoria , in rather a serious voice , to be tender towards her mother , retired , and left them together . 
But the slight shade of reserve which marked the countenance of Berenza , as he waved his hand to Victoria in parting , had not failed to make even more than its due impression on her : her vivid imagination easily led her to trace the occasion of his altered air . 
She saw that her cruel recriminations on her mother had excited his disgust : alarmed at the remotest idea of becoming indifferent to him , she instantly determined on regaining his esteem . 
Approaching her weeping mother , therefore , with a conciliating air , she endeavoured to soothe her into composure ; but having awakened the remorse of the conscious Laurina , she no sooner beheld in the artful Victoria a disposition to softness , than she resolved to take immediate advantage of it to withdraw her , if possible , from the vortex of guilt and libertinism into which she saw her plunging . 
To every persuasion , however , even to every supplication to give up her distracting resolution without reserve , the wild impassioned Victoria was wholly deaf . 
Even this would not have been granted , had not the deeply-meaning Victoria imagined , that , by debarring her lover from seeing her for a few hours , he would begin so far to feel the loss of her society , as wholly to forget , in his uneasiness , the cause he had had for displeasure against her . 
Laurina , after some hours of more poignant wretchedness than she had almost ever experienced , separated at length , for the night , from her daughter . 
She flew instantly to Ardolph , and imparted to him this new and unexpected cause , to her , of unhappiness . 
So keen , indeed , were her compunctious feelings , that , with bitter tears , she vowed she would quit him on the morrow , and retire at once , with Victoria , to some seclusion , where , experience now convinced her , she ought long since to have been . 
When Laurina paused , he looked at her with tender seriousness , and said -- `` That a union like ours , Laurina , cemented by ties and by circumstances , which , however they may be considered by the prejudiced and misjudging , nothing should have the power of annulling ; that such an union should either be innovated or destroyed by the impudent caprice of a forward girl , admits not of a thought . 
Listen to what I have to propose , and let Victoria , as she ought , reap the fruits of her audacity . 
It would be easy for me to forbid Il Conte Berenza to remain here another hour -- it would be easy to imprison Victoria in her chamber , and prevent them seeing each other ; but we shall have recourse to no compulsory measures ; on the contrary , to such only as shall be at once simple , cool , and effective . 
The instant he departs for Venice , Victoria shall quit this abode . '' 
`` We will both escort her hence , Laurina , and she shall be too securely lodged , ever more to interrupt our happiness ; -- and , now that an idea strikes me , '' he hastily added , perceiving that Laurina was on the point of speaking , and determined to drown her objections , `` I have an admirable seclusion for her . 
In our excursions last year , Laurina , we made at one time a short stay , as you doubtless call to mind , with your cousin the Signora di Modena : she resides , I think , near Treviso . 
Nothing can be more retired , more fitted for Victoria , than her abode . 
The feelings of Berenza , as he read characters , which he never for a moment doubted had been traced by the hand of Victoria , were such , as to the line of conduct they instigated him to adopt , highly favourable to the views of Count Ardolph . 
But Berenza was not displeased by the perusal ; nay , it is uncertain , if he had not even a contrary sentiment ; for he believed that Victoria 's declining to see him for a short time , was merely an atonement offered by her for her recent misconduct to an insulted and wounded mother . 
As such , therefore , he felt , with genuine goodness , disposed to concede to her idea ; and , believing that his departure might assist to establish that harmony which his presence had interrupted , and which it was absolutely requisite to the ultimate atchievement of his own wishes should be restored , he determined to lose no time , but to quit Monte Bello at once , for the purpose of being enabled to return to it hereafter with better prospects of success . 
He experienced , too , something like a sensation of pleasure , that Victoria should evince remorse for the pain she had inflicted upon a doting parent : and perceiving , in addition , that a prompt departure would avoid some unpleasant , and perhaps very serious explanation with Count Ardolph , he called instantly , under the impression of these ideas , for his servant , and ordered him to get ready for returning to Venice . 
He had indeed a slight inclination to leave a line for Victoria ; but , upon reflection , thinking it might only tend to irritate Laurina against him , he determined to dispense even with this ; and all being very soon prepared for his short journey , with a bright Italian sky sparkling over his head , and the moon to light him on his way , Il Conte Berenza bade adieu to Monte Bello . 
The intelligence , for an instant , gave to the haughty bosom of Victoria a pang of acute mortification , but this emotion was speedily succeeded by one of violent and uncontrouled rage . 
`` Not at the instigation of any one , Victoria , '' mildly but faulteringly replied Laurina . 
Victoria withdrew her keen eyes from the countenance of her mother , and in a musing but stern voice said -- `` If Il Conte Berenza departed voluntarily , he will rest passive , and take no measures to see me ; but if he was impelled hence , then will he write to me , and inform me of the truth . 
From the air of innocence so well assumed by Laurina , the unbending Victoria almost believed it real : she relaxed into a smile , and half soothed , half angry , she suffered her mother to take her hand . 
she haughtily enquired . 
sullenly muttered Victoria . 
There , however , we need only remain a few days , and afterwards our little tour shall be prescribed by Victoria . '' 
Victoria deigned a haughty smile . 
Her mother tenderly pressed the hand she still held , and rising , said -- `` Adieu for the present , my love ; prepare , as I am going to do , for our departure . '' 
Not unpleasing was this request to Victoria , for her wounded pride now again usurping , the place of regret and love , `` Surely , '' thought she , `` had Berenza really loved me , he would not so coolly , so suddenly have departed , without leaving even a line . 
With an unsettled mind , and an heart ill at ease , Victoria began to arrange a few things for her departure . 
She was not suffered by the Count or Laurina to remain long in solitude , the nurse , too often , of dangerous reflection . 
`` I am , '' was the laconic answer of Victoria . 
Ardolph , who resolved that no danger should arise from delay , had caused every thing to be prepared : they embarked , therefore , immediately for Treviso , on the Terra Firma , and Victoria , though she little dreamt it at the time , bade a long adieu to Venice . 
Every attempt at conversation was for some time baffled by the sullen taciturnity of Victoria ; but by degrees -LRB- perhaps from a feeling of shame at the idea of being thought to regret a man , who , after all , might have voluntarily abandoned her -RRB- her sullenness relaxed , and she determined to assume a chearfulness that she was far from feeling . 
Laurina sighed ; for the eyes of Ardolph had told her there was nothing to hope ; she sunk into painful thought , and it now became the task of Victoria to rally her mother , and to shew , vain girl , how far she could conquer her feelings , and become mistress of herself ; her every endeavour , however , but added to the compunction of mind experienced by the unhappy Laurina . 
As they had departed from Venice at a late hour , it was dusk when they reached Treviso , and arrived at Il Bosco , which was so named from its situation in the midst of a wood : its gloomy appearance , however , did not depress Victoria , who was by this time absolutely in spirits . 
The mother 's heart was rived : she knew it was the intention of Ardolph , after her relation should be instructed as to the conduct it was his wish she should pursue towards Victoria , laying infinite stress upon the levity and freedom of her principles , to abandon her solely to the guardianship of this person , with whom even Laurina herself had never been much in the habit of associating ; she therefore ardently longed to alter the severe resolution of the unyielding Ardolph ; but the effort she knew would be vain . 
With him she could atchieve nothing , when not under the immediate apprehension of losing her . 
To have obtained from him a remission of the sentence , she should have begun earlier , before even her departure from Monte Bello . 
In vain she anxiously examined his countenance ; she saw there nothing but a complacent , cool expression , the result of a settled purpose in the mind . 
The Signora di Modena welcomed Count Ardolph with all the warmth she could command . 
Laurina anxiously examined her countenance , to see if she could augur aught of kindness or gentleness to reconcile her to her guardianship of her daughter ; but in the frigid features of this forbidding female nothing was discernible but the austere pride of ungracious virtue , with an aukward attempt at condescending kindness , which shewed how much it cost her to assume . 
Acquainted with the unhappy misconduct of Laurina , and likewise that it had lost her her place in society , she , with the arrogated superiority of little minds , ever triumphing in the fall of others , contented herself with a solemn curtsey towards her , while on Victoria , she scarcely deigned to glance . 
She was not more repulsive in person than in character ; a long yellow visage , small grey eyes , and a stiff unbending meagre figure , costituted the former . 
She was proud , fastidious , and possessed of a mercenary soul . 
From her youth , alarmed at the idea of conventual seclusion , yet being portionless , as the daughters of the Italian nobility frequently are , she preferred residing an occasional dependant in such noble families as would permit her lengthened visits , where she would act alternately the overseer , the companion , the governess , or the servant . 
By these , and other winding paths , by flattery , peculation , and hypocrisy , she had actually amassed , as the friendless period of age approached , sufficient to make it pass with comfort , though not with affluence ; and , to recompense herself for the contempt she had in her early life experienced , becoming , as far as she could , the torment and scourge of all who were miserable enough to be subject to her controul . 
No man , even in the best of her days , had ever glanced toward her with the eye of admiration , much less attempted to solicit her in marriage ; and for this reason , her bitterness against all females who could attract or dare to yield to the regards of the other sex , knew no bounds , and they could hope from her no mercy . 
Such was the Signora di Modena , whose self interest would not permit her to quarrel with Laurina , because , though she had never much associated with her , she had often proved herself a generous friend towards her . 
Still her wretched affectation and rancorous envy would not suffer her to display much warmth . 
No such reason , however , operated in her conduct to Ardolph ; of him she was desirous to make a friend ; and hence her mercenary homage was directed towards him , and she paid him chiefest court . 
Nothing , however , could excite in him a desire to prolong his stay beyond what was necessary under her roof ; he , therefore , presuming upon her uncommon deference towards him , requested an early supper , that Victoria might then retire , and he might be enabled to enter at once upon the grand object of their visit . 
Supper was at length announced , and the unsuspecting Victoria detesting the the very looks of the old Signora , which had already succeeded in damping her spirits , requested to be shewn to her chamber , as soon as it was concluded . 
Beneath her stern and scrutinizing regard , her haughty mind felt a sentiment of impatient disgust , and an oppression never known before to the buoyant carelessness of her disposition . 
On bidding her mother good night , she felt impelled , from the very uneasiness she experienced , to throw her arms round her neck , with unusual affection , and whispered to her , that she hoped they should not long remain under so gloomy and ungenial a roof . 
She however pressed the hand of Victoria , and faultered out ` good night ; ' while the reflection that it might be perhaps be for the last time , filled her bosom with acute pain , and her eyes with tears . 
Victoria left the room almost reproaching herself for having ever pained a heart of such fond sensibility as her mother 's . 
She was scarcely gone , ere the impatient Ardolph , turning towards the Signora di Modena , entered abruptly upon the business he was most desirous of accomplishing . 
-- Here the Signora heaved a loud tremulous sigh , and , turning up her eyes to heaven , made the holy sign of the cross . 
The immaculate Signora replied only by a cool half-scornful look , and scarcely seemed proud of the appellation which Laurina had given her , though once it was the chief boast of her little mind . 
She now thought herself superior to the fallen wife of Loredani . 
`` I would have you , Signora , '' continued Ardolph , endeavouring to call back her attention to himself , `` I would have you confine her , if it be necessary , to the solitude of her chamber , for a short time . '' 
`` Oh , Ardolph , '' cried Laurina , unable to command her feelings , `` you are too cruel , there can be no occasion for such harshness . '' 
Another look from the unbending Signora chilled her into silence , who then turned again with the utmost deference towards the Count . 
Mean time , Signora di Modena , it is my intention to depart early to-morrow morning from this place , leaving Victoria still asleep . 
When she arises , astonished at not seeing us , she will enquire of you respecting us . 
You will then gently disclose to her the truth , and her own destination for the present . 
By degrees you will , I doubt not , reconcile her to what she will perceive to be inevitable . 
She found , as she had all along imagined , that it was her interest to court and to oblige the Count ; she therefore determined to yield to whatever he should require , fondly promising herself in return , some splendid remuneration . 
`` Be assured , my Lord Count , '' she said , in a grating , discordant voice , intended to be gentle and conciliating , `` I will observe your wishes to the uttermost ; and as for you , Signora Laurina , '' looking towards her with a pitying air , `` for all I intend to observe my Lord Count 's wishes , you shall not have any reason to complain of the treatment your daughter will receive . '' 
At these words , the grateful Laurina flew towards her , and , seizing her hand , which she fervently pressed , she said , `` Oh , you have no child , my dear Signora , yet pity the feelings of a mother , and be kind to mine . 
Hastily , and with a look almost amounting to horror , the pure and dignified Signora withdrew her hand , as from the touch of pollution ; then rising , and retreating three steps , stretching out her arm at full length , to prevent the nearer approach of so sinful and impure a being , she said -- `` I will do the duty of a good catholic towards your child . 
`` There appears no occasion for further discourse , '' observed Ardolph coldly , `` we shall rely upon the proper tenor of your conduct towards Victoria . 
Then gallantly bowing on her withered hand , he withdrew , leaving her in admiration at his singular politeness , and her own dexterity , as she thought , in having turned him already to such good account . 
Let us leave then for a time this guilty pair to enjoy the society of each other , and return to the deserted Victoria . 
She approached Victoria , and informed her , that the Signora di Modena desired her company at breakfast . 
With a haughty supercilious air , and a smile of derision on her features , Victoria glanced over the figure of the humble girl , and , without deigning a reply , preceded her into the house . 
Entering the apartment where breakfast was laid , she saw there seated alone , at the table , the old Signora , in unbending state . 
Without even offering to her the customary salutations of the morning , the haughty Victoria enquired impatiently if Count Ardolph and her mother still slept . 
almost shrieked Victoria ; `` did you say gone ? '' 
Come , be charitable , '' she tauntingly proceeded -- `` I have been long very solitary , and you will be noble company for me , I think . '' 
The rage of Victoria knew no bounds ; she gazed wildly round the apartment ; the whole truth rushed through her mind at once -- the base , the unpardonable artifice that had been used -- she struck her head violently with her clenched hand , and passionately exclaiming -- `` I am deceived and entrapped ! '' 
rushed from the room before the Signora was aware of her intention ; and , reaching the apartment where she had slept , she secured the door . 
There , casting herself upon the floor , her passion vented itself in a violent paroxysm of tears ; but becoming suddenly ashamed of yielding , as she thought it , to a weakness so ignoble , and angry with herself that the ill treatment of any one should have power to excite in her either grief or lamentation , she checked a rising gush , while rage and the most deadly hatred against those who had thus dared to dupe and to betray her , took possession of her swelling heart . 
An ardent desire of revenge followed ; and thus from the conduct , misjudging and inexcusable , that had been pursued towards her , did every violent and evil propensity of her nature become increased and aggravated . 
No sooner had Victoria called to her aid the loftier and more dangerous passions , than she became to appearance calm ; and though now and then , when reflecting upon the deception of her mother , and cold deliberate artifice of Ardolph , her eyes shot fire , and the pulsation of her heart increased ; yet , in her general aspect , there were no longer traces of grief , but , on the contrary , a superior and dignified expression , which would have done honour to a nobler motive : her head no longer drooped ; and rising hastily from the floor , on which , after her first paroxysm , she had remained sitting , with firm and measured step she traversed the apartment to and fro . 
In the course of her cooler reflection , it occurred to her that Il Conte Berenza must have been impelled by artifice , and not his own desire , to quit Monte Bello . 
This idea soothed the sovereign pride of her bosom : she felt that her charms had not been slighted ; and , at some future period , she did not yet despair of convincing him that the separation was neither on her side voluntary . 
But then she recurred to her present situation -- was it intended she should remain for ever a prisoner in this gloomy abode ? 
Again she yielded for a moment to the influence of circumstance , and her heart became chilled at the idea . 
Yes she determined to observe minutely -- to make no enquiries -- to betray no vexation , but to act precisely as events might shew necessary . 
Soothed and calmed by these mental arrangements , and by the victory which reason , as she conceived , had obtained over her weaker feelings , she resolved , as evening drew on , to quit the solitude of her chamber , and breathe for a short space the air of the garden . 
For the whole of the day she had not tasted food ; and though she heeded not the calls of hunger , she became sensible of the privation . 
The cold and unfeeling Signora , happy to have a human being and , above all , an ardent and high-spirited creature , to tyranniise over , resolved that no refreshment should be offered her till she herself came , and , with proper apologies for her conduct , requested it : but of this Victoria formed not the remotest intention ; and it is probable that , rather than have done so , she would have fallen a victim to the pangs of hunger . 
Fortunately for her , however , though infinitely to the regret of the tantalising Signora , she was not put to this trial . 
Having walked for a while in the garden , and refreshed her wearied faculties with the dewy fragrance of the atmosphere , she entered the house , and proceeded , though unintentionally , to the very apartment where supper was prepared ; there quietly seating herself opposite to the old Signora , she partook , without ceremony , of what was before her : she even made some attempt at conversation ; but , foiled in her proposed plan of ungenerous mortification , the Signora di Modena was too vexed to make any reply . 
She had hoped to have found her inmate stubborn , refractory , and violent , giving fine scope thereby to her favourite art of tormenting . 
How grieved and disappointed then was she to find the fury of the morning sunk into calm , and , as it appeared , patient submission . 
Victoria , perceiving the Signora determined upon sullen silence , requested permission to withdraw for the night , in a tone of the utmost politeness . 
The only answer she obtained was a stiff inclination of the head . 
More determined than ever at this , that she should not have the gratification of provoking her , she coolly rose , and wishing her , with a profound curtsey , good night , left the room . 
When she was gone , this worthy and pious catholic began to reflect , that , by means like these , Victoria would escape from all the arrangements she had been making to punish and mortify her . 
`` This will never do , '' she cried , while ruminating how best she might vex and harass the mind of her unfortunate guest : `` she has become reconciled to her situation without any attempt on my side to render her so ; but she shall not escape thus -- I will break that proud spirit , and make her submit afterwards . '' 
Such were the reflections of the charitable devotee ; and , with these thoughts at work in her brain for the comfort and happiness of others , she said a long prayer , during which she frequently struck her breast , and retired to repose . 
Victoria , after sitting for an hour at the window , with a mind still persevering in the resolution to be firm , sought likewise her bed , and soon forgot the vexations of the day in slumber . 
On the following morning , she awakened at an early hour ; and , after having drest herself , she prepared to pass from her chamber into the garden . 
Trying her door , she found it was fastened on the outside ; and discovering soon that every attempt on her part to shake it must be ineffectual , she opened the window , and stationed herself beside it . 
imperiously cried Victoria . 
repeated Victoria . 
`` No , '' laconically answered the girl , again laying her hand upon the lock of the door . 
cried Victoria , smothering the rage she felt rising in her breast . 
`` It is your breakfast , '' replied the girl , quitting the room , and locking the door after her . 
muttered Victoria , and her cheeks assumed a crimson dye , as she endeavoured faintly to smile at the impotent malice of the Signora . 
This unworthy procedure and system of torment , on the part of the Signora , continued in full force for some days , till want of exercise , and inferior food , began , though the proud Victoria disdained complaint , to have a visible effect upon her health . 
At this the Signora , who was informed of the circumstance by the young girl who attended her , began to be slightly alarmed , and to apprehend likewise that she might overstep , by such measures , the limits that had been prescribed her , and render herself amenable for any ill consequences that might arise ; such , for example , as the sickness of Victoria , which , by distressing and aggrieving Laurina , might bring her into disfavour with the Count ; perhaps , as he appeared so tenderly to love Laurina , even excite his anger against her , for such unauthorised severity . 
For though Ardolph had said , she might , if necessary , confine Victoria to her chamber , he had not bid her do so without cause , much less deprive her of her accustomed food , and give her only a scanty portion even of the worst . 
Under these considerations , therefore , she determined to relax a little ; and Victoria , from being confined the whole of the day , and visited only twice in the course of it by Catau , her attendant , with a small quantity of bad bread and milk , was suffered , accompanied , however , by Catau , to walk an hour in the garden , morning and evening . 
To attempt to describe the indignant feelings of Victoria at this treatment , or the struggle it cost her , amounting almost to phrensy , to subdue the expression of the violent rage that fermented in her bosom , would be indeed vain ; yet she bore all , and was determined sooner to die than betray the smallest symptom of vexation or impatience . 
But desire of revenge , deep and implacable , was nurtured in her heart 's core , and gave to her character an additional shade of harshness and ferocity : thus she became like the untameable hyæna , that confinement renders only more fierce . 
A few days after this comparative liberty had been allowed her , the Signora , by Catau , requested her presence in the drawing-room . 
In strict pursuance of the conduct she had prescribed herself , she instantly obeyed , and regretted only that her pallid cheek and sunken eyes were evidences of suffering beyond her power to conceal , and would gratify , as she feared , the malignity of her tyrant . 
She entered the apartment , however , with an air neither of sullen reserve nor acknowledged resentment , but placid , cool , and unembarrassed . 
Thus , too , did she learn the most refined artifice , which , by practice , became imhued into the mass of her other evil qualities . 
The Signora , somewhat discomforted by the unexpected demeanor of Victoria , having previously arranged her hard features for the intended expression of severe reprimand , knew not for the moment how to receive her : at length , she said -- `` Be seated , child . '' 
With secret scorn and hate , Victoria obeyed . 
The heart of Victoria rose in her bosom -- it swelled with indignation to reply -- but again she conquered her emotions , and the only evidence of them was a momentary rush of the blood into her cheeks . 
How the pride of Victoria battled for vent ! 
-- but still she spoke not . 
The Signora new paused for breath -- Victoria still remained silent , as not seeming to suppose an answer was required . 
that ever I should live to speak the word , '' continued the devotee , turning up her eyes , and making the sign of the cross -- `` teach me to bear with patience , admitting to my presence one of passions and propensities so vile , and whose mother has already trespassed before her , beyond redemption , in the paths of sin ! 
-- You may retire , child , '' she said , changing her tone of raphsody into one of haughty severity ; `` retire , and seek Catau : she is a meet companion for the contaminated offspring of one who is immersed many fathoms deep in guilt and shame . '' 
This last bitter , illiberal , and uncalled for reproach , tingled with burning heat through every vein of the insulted Victoria . 
she faintly murmured , and hastened from the room . 
It would be endless to dwell on the varied and unworthy artifices which the pious Signora di Modena had recourse to , for the torment and annoyance of her unhappy charge . 
Suffice it to say , that in time their effect became blunted and despised , and the whole thoughts of Victoria turned to the possibility of escaping from such vulgar tyranny : for long she revolved in her mind even the remotest probability , but in vain ; she could never penetrate farther than the allotted garden , and knew not even the precise path or door that might lead beyond it -- even were that difficulty obviated , she was ignorant of the means of getting to Venice , whither , could she but once escape , she was determined to hasten . 
Under these circumstances , the image of Catau presented itself to her mind . 
Confined as she was almost wholly to the society of this untaught girl , she had leisure to remark in her , certain traits of docility and goodnature , ill concealed beneath the sullen sternness she had evidently been commanded to assume . 
Catau was a peasant of Switzerland , short and thick in her person hard favoured , of rude and vacant features , ignorant and inured to labour ; she had been selected by the Signora to attend and watch Victoria , first to mortify her by the careless clumsiness of her manner , and the inferiority of her station and , secondly , from an idea that Victoria should despise her too much to endeavour to corrupt or make a friend of her . 
Should she even make the attempt , the Signora presumed the extreme stupidity of Catau would render if abortive . 
Signora , as she believed herself , was mistaken in her fancied penetration . 
Catau was not only not so stupid as she was supposed , but was possessed of a certain shrewdness , and power of combining ideas , which , hid beneath an habitual silence and placidity of disposition , had drawn upon her the mistaken imputation of heaviness and insensibility . 
Catau could think ; and , what was more , she could feel -- yes , infinitely beyond those who so proudly sat in judgment upon her character . 
To return , however , to Victoria . 
No sooner had the remotest glimmerings of a possible attempt beamed upon her mind , than instantly she determined , by every means in her power , to attach Catau to her interests . 
Time and experience had already made her so far acquainted with the malevolent and tormenting spirit of the Signora tho Modena , that she well knew one great step towards the scheme in embryo , was not , by any means , to appear reconciled to the society of Catau , but , on the contrary ; so seem to shun and despise her ; for it was sufficiant for this worthy catholic to aware of the particular circumstance , that could yield a moment 's satisfaction to say one instantly to reverse it , and continue with unwearied perseverance in the line of conduct which appeared to give most pain and uneasiness : therefore , when she seemed to dislike being accompanied by Catau into the garden , which she often did purposely the Signora , with a distorted smile of fancied triumph , would tell Catau to take her arm , and lead her thither , thinking by that to inflict on the proud heart of her charge the deepest mortification . 
But here again the Signora was fallible ; for no sooner was Victoria out of her sight , than she smiled on Catau with an air that said -- `` There is no other way of preserving your attendance . '' 
This smile would penetrate the heart of her humble companion ; and she would feel so gratified and affected , that , perhaps , at those moments , Victoria might have made an attempt not destitute of success . 
Such , however , was not her plan : she had not yet sufficiently arranged it , and she resolved to do nothing from crude undigested ideas . 
She was but now in the infancy of her attempt , sounding the disposition of Catau ; and her mailed heart was not to be thrown off its guard by any effusions of softness or feeling , attributable to the effect of the moment alone . 
It so happened , that one evening they perambulated to a part of the garden which was yet unknown to Victoria : it was a beautiful close avenue , the sides and roof of which were interwoven branches of vine and honeysuckle ; the entrance was almost concealed by a thick shrubbery , which it required no slight ingenuity to penetrate ; and , from the serpentine direction of the path , it appeared wholly impossible to ascertain its extent . 
Still having made their way through , they proceeded , Victoria with a vague and indefinable feeling of hope and fear , and Catau merely with that vacant curiosity : incident to vulgar minds . 
At length , after waling for near half an hour they only reached the extent of the garden , bounded by the high circular wall , which had so often , since the comparative liberty she had enjoyed , filled the mind of Victoria , in contemplating it , with a despondency almost hopeless . 
The winding path they had traversed , had alone deceived her as to the imagined distance ; and , as she gloomily surveyed the strong and lofty enclosure , she almost doubted if any outlet whatever existed . 
`` Surely , '' thought she , `` there is only an entrance to this garden from the house , and no outlet from the garden itself . '' 
While thus she ruminated , walking slowly along by the side of the wall , she became convinced , as she proceeded , that the precise part of the garden in which she now found herself , she had never seen before . 
At length , a small wooden door , formed in the wall , and secured by two rusty bolts , and a heavy iron lock , presented itself to her eager view . 
She instantly called to Catau to approach and , pointing to the door , enquired of her if she knew whither it led . 
The first part of her reply fixed the breathless attention of Victoria . 
repeated she mentally , and applied her eye likewise to the key-hole . 
`` And is there no way , Catau , '' said she , `` of opening this door ? '' 
`` None , that I know of , Signora , '' replied Catau ; `` and even if there was , you know , Signora , '' she added , in a hesitating voice , `` you know that -- '' `` I understand you , Catau , '' answered Victoria ; `` but you know there could be nothing wrong in rambling now and then about the wood ; and , supposing the Signora has forbid it , how could it ever become known ? '' 
said Victoria , in a gentle voice , `` nothing is impossible to those who are willing . 
cried Victoria , her natural impatience breaking forth through her assumed gentleness and forbearance . 
-- I do not think , '' she continued , `` this door has been opened for a long time -- perhaps the very key that belongs to it may be in this bunch . '' 
Victoria was fearful to appear too eager ; and , ardently as she longed to penetrate beyond the unvaried precincts prescribed by the Signora , she acquiesced with apparent readiness to the arrangements of Catau , and reluctantly agreed to bend her steps homeward . 
The perpetual ferment of her brain , and , above all , the violent restraint she imposed upon her feelings , and natural disposition scarcely ever suffering herself to be provoked , for an instant , from the cool and systematic conduct she prescribed herself , had began long since to have a visible effect upon her personal appearance : she had become thin and pallid ; but still her eyes burnt with an ardent though melancholy lustre , that bespoke the trammelled unsubdued ferocity of her soul . 
About noon the following day , Catau , who had been absent since she had risen , -LRB- for she occupied the same apartment as Victoria -RRB- rushed suddenly into the room , and , first carefully securing the door , drew from her pocket a huge bunch of rusty keys . 
At this sight Victoria 's eyes sparkled , and the orient tint revisited momentarily her pallid cheek : she devoured them with eager look , and in fancy applied them in turn to the lock of the door . 
Now , in all this active conduct of the simple Catau , there was absolutely not the smallest intention of aiding or abetting Victoria to escape ; she would , on the contrary , have shuddered at the idea : but though , in obedience to the orders of the Signora , she had , in the commencement , treated her with sullen coldness , yet in a little time , as is natural for a young uncorrupted mind , she had become weary of this assumed character , and returned to the kind , gentle , and respectful conduct , more consonant to her feelings . 
Besides which , the involuntary awe with which superior rank inspired her , was not to be done away ; for superior rank , if accompanied with any dignity , makes resistless impression on the vulgar mind . 
Victoria , who beheld with pleasure this gradual change of conduct , divested herself as much as possible of her natural hauteur ; and , having a point to carry , she behaved towards Catau with the utmost condescension , now and then bestowing on her such trifles as were still within her power -LRB- for of the greatest part of her little possessions clothes & c. the Signora had deprived her under the pretence of curing her of a sinful vanity detrimental to the good of her soul -RRB- . 
But what , Victoria could , she did ; and the trifles which , with grace , she pressed upon Catau , were acceptable , and had their desired effect ; for vulgar minds are almost always mercenary : therefore , as far as she could , in return , she enlarged the slender sphere of Victoria 's comforts , and her solitary unvaried amusements . 
Thus , in procuring for her the keys , she had it merely in contemplation to obtain for her , if possible , a few moments of satisfaction . 
Strong anxiety winged the feet of Victoria , and soon she reached the door which had already excited in her mind ideas so various and confused Snatching the keys from Catau , who had toiled after her , she applied them in turn , with trembling impatience , to the lock : one at length appeared to suit the best ; she essayed to turn it , but in vain -- it was reserved for the sinewy hand of Catau to triumph over the united strength of rust and iron . 
She wrenched the key with violence ; it turned in the lock : she applied her force to the bolts alternately with her hand and a stone , which she had picked up : the door at length yielded to her perseverance , and flew open . 
Happy and joyous sight for the imprisoned Victoria ! 
-- she darted , like a wild bird newly escaped from its wiry tenement , into the beautiful and romantic wood that presented itself to her ravished view . 
Victoria looked wistfully around : she beheld no boundaries , nothing to retard her , should she effect her escape . 
For a moment she ruminated ; then calling Catau towards her , she said , in a careless tone -- `` Catau , canst thou tell now in which direction lies the city of Venice ? '' 
answered Catau , pausing and gazing around , `` Venice lies there , '' pointing with her finger . 
`` Then , '' said Victoria , clapping her hands , while her cheeks crimsoned with rage , `` Monte Bello , '' pointing contemptuously towards the left , `` must be on that side . '' 
Reflections , too bitter and too strong to be endured , rushed through her mind : she turned abruptly away , and with a look that seemed to say -- `` Accursed be the quarter where I was deceived and duped , and accursed every breeze that is wafted thence ! '' 
But far , far different sensations actuated her , when she cast her eyes forwards . 
`` There , '' thought she , `` is Venice itself , and there dwells Berenza ! '' 
Distance , which , like death , always magnifies to the imagination the charms of those who were beloved , together with the deception that had been used to separate her from him , induced her to think of him with a tenderness , that , but for those circumstances , perhaps , she had never felt in so powerful a degree . 
she mentally continued , `` might I but hope to see thee once more -- '' She turned towards Catau , anxious to rally her thoughts ; and , taking her arm , she walked on with her in silence . 
A thousand unconnected ideas still floated in her mind : time passed unheeded , till Catau , respectfully reminding her that it would be expedient to return , roused her from her visions of the future , and she readily acquiesced in the propriety of the movement . 
It may be naturally presumed that the mind of Victoria remained bent upon escape ; not a day past , that she did not induce Catau to extend their , walks farther and farther from the outlet , an outlet the Signora little thought they would ever discover , much less dream of attempting . 
Every day , too , did she contrive to make silent , though accurate observations as to the direct course it would be most proper for her to pursue . 
At length , unable to bear continued procrastination , she determined to put in execution the plan that had been so long arranging in her brain . 
Accordingly , on the following evening , when the unsuspicious Catau had been lured , by her kind and condescending manner , to accompany her far , infinitely farther than they had ever yet ventured , she suddenly stopt short , and thus addressed the astonished girl -- `` Catau , I will never more return to Il Bosco -- my term of slavery is now over -- I shall bend my course whither I please -- to the East , the West , the North , or the South . 
Victoria , marking her consternation , began calmly to take off her robe ; and , in that gentle tone she knew so well how to assume , thus went on -- `` I see , Catau , that you have the good sense to feel the propriety of my resolution , and the kindness to wish to assist me in it . 
At length , involuntarily taking at the same time the first step to divest herself of her attire -- `` oh , Signora , what are you about to do ? '' 
answered Victoria , with quickness , her eyes darting fire ; `` and I wish you , Catau , speedily the same good fortune . 
-- Come , hasten your movements , '' she proceeded , handing her the robe she had now taken off . 
Poor Catau mechanically proceeded to do as she was ordered . 
Hurried in her naturally slow conceptions ; yet in the native goodness and simplicity of her heart , seeing something in the conduct of Victoria which she could not blame , -LRB- for who , more than the poor drudge Catau , had reason to hate the tyrannical and never satisfied Signora ? -RRB- 
she went oh , but not so quickly as Victoria desired , to exchange with her gradually every necessary external part of her dress , to render the disguise complete . 
Though the imperious , unaltered Victoria had acquired , by assumed gentleness , the love of the humble Catau , yet had she still the power of inspiring her with awe . 
Conscious of that , and knowing that her weak mind must , in the present case , be taken by surprise , and subdued by the force of language , she had preferred this mode to that of attempting sudden flight . 
Such an act would have roused her drowsy faculties ; and , once impelled , it was possible she might have excelled her in swiftness of foot , which would have delayed , perhaps destroyed , her entire project . 
Besides , it was infinitely more politic to make Catau a friend , than by apparent ingratitude and want of confidence , render her perhaps an enemy . 
The transformation was at length completed ; when Victoria , presenting Catau with the promised ring , slightly pressed her hand , and said -- `` My good , my honest Catau , if you possibly can , return to the house unseen , and enter the chamber we have usually occupied -- secure the door . 
`` If you really love me , Catau , '' said the calm Victoria , who felt not a shadow of regret at leaving her faithful companion , `` if you really love me , detain me no longer , but turn at once , and let me behold you on your return . '' 
Catau , with a violent burst of tears and sobs , seized the hand of Victoria , and impressed on it a kiss forcible in proportion to the affection it was meant to convey . 
She then turned hastily away ; and , without power to speak a word , proceeded towards the house with a speed almost sufficient to satisfy the impatience of Victoria . 
She remained , however , upon the spot , thinking every moment an age till the poor girl was out of sight , who , unconsciously however , turned frequently round to obtain a last look of her she so much regretted to leave . 
At these periods , Victoria , though with a feeling of vexation and anger , would hastily wave her hand , as if to say -- `` I see thee , but pr ` ythee go on . '' 
Victoria , who had walked , or rather ran , with the utmost celerity , from the moment that she beheld Catau no longer , had hoped in a short time to have penetrated the wood ; she , however , found herself mistaken , for the wood was of extensive dimensions ; and , ignorant of its windings , she had not taken the shortest way to emerge from it . 
Though she continued her speed with unabated eagerness , night , to her confusion , began to draw in , and still she was wandering in its mazes . 
As it grew darker , the necessity of abstaining from her journey became evident . 
she mentally ejaculated , casting her eyes around . 
A small white shed , embosomed at a distance among some trees , caught her view : she felt an emotion of gladness , and was hastening towards it ; but , suddenly recollecting , that when her flight should be discovered , it was not improbable but the very road she had taken might be searched , and that , in such case , this shed being liable to the observations of others as well as herself , might undergo some scrutiny , she determined instantly to avoid , as much as possible , the habitations of man , and to pursue the path that appeared the most unfrequented . 
Sooner than incur the smallest risk of being traced , the firm-minded Victoria decided on passing the night in common with the race of animal nature , beneath no other canopy than the star-sprinkled heavens . 
In pursuance of this resolve , she turned from the path that led , as she now perceived , to various scattered seclusions of humble life ; and , beneath the umbrageous shade of a self-formed bower , composed of jessamine and the luxurious vine , o'erhanging and intertwining from a wild hedge on one side of the forest , she cast herself for repose . 
`` Here , '' thought she , `` why may I not enjoy a few hours of more refreshing rest than hitherto I have obtained on more luxuriant beds ? 
Thus reflecting , sleep stole gradually over her senses . 
Fatigued by the unusual exertions of the day , for some hours she enjoyed undisturbed repose ; nor , till the sun-beams playing through the tender branches upon her closed eyelids , and the carol of the birds , exhilirated by the divine rays of the morning , burst melodiously forth , did she awaken . 
She no sooner opened her eyes , than , starting upon her feet , she again commenced her journey with the utmost speed . 
A few Naples biscuits , which she had the day before thought of securing , served her for breakfast , and she ate them as she proceeded . 
Her chief desire was now to leave behind her the wood ; for this she increased her speed , and , after two hours walking , found herself in a kind of path that she hoped would give her some unerring clue to proceed by . 
Eager with this idea , she swiftly measured its winding way : it terminated , at length , in a lonely canal , bordered on each side by poplars and acacias ; and Victoria beholding this , cast herself almost hopeless close to its edge . 
she cried , `` how deeply must I have wandered ! 
She had thrown herself upon her face , and despondently leaned her forehead upon her clasped hands . 
The melody of the birds among the lofty poplars and the spreading acacias , alone broke the heavenly silence of the scene ; and Victoria , indifferent to these wild beauties , so hostile to her wishes , remained prostrate and in despair . 
At length , a low distant sound struck upon her ear : she started -- `` Did it not resemble the remote noise of oars , dipping , at measured intervals , in the canal ? 
And again she reclined her head . 
In an instant , Victoria was upon her feet : she bent eagerly over the canal , and descried a gondola most leisurely approaching , and containing only a single rower , who was coasting coolly along the edge of the lake . 
thought Victoria , `` on that careless being depends my fate ! 
Victoria eagerly hailed it -- `` Whither go you , friend ? '' 
she asked . 
Victoria 's heart leaped -- `` Wilt thou permit me , '' she asked , `` to enter thy gondola ? '' 
Victoria was silent : all she had possessed , her ring , she had given to Catau . 
The gondolier was silent likewise , and her hopes began again to fade . 
At length , she cast her eyes upon the countenance of the gondolier : though coarse and brawny , she perceived that he was a young man . 
she said , `` I have no money , friend ; but I have a lover in Venice , and if thou wilt convey me thither , the blessed Virgin will ever send thee luck . '' 
The gondolier , in turn , cast his eyes upon Victoria : he beheld , beneath her peasant 's hat , that she was beautiful . 
He conceived her , from her garb , to be a peasant in reality , and readily believed that she had no money . 
The gondolier himself had a mistress that he loved ; but , on account of his poverty , her parents refused the match , and he saw her by stealth alone . 
He conceived a fellow-feeling then for Victoria ; and , towing his gondola close to the edge of the lake , he stretched forth his hand to her , which she joyfully seized , and vaulted into the gondola . 
Who can describe the sensations of Victoria ? 
She could not speak -- a thousand gay anticipations revelled in her mind , and their enjoyment was too sweet to be unnecessarily interrupted . 
The gondolier , however , thinking he had at least a right to her conversation for his kindness , did not long permit her to indulge -- `` But how , my pretty one , '' he began , could ever you think of meeting a gondola where I found you perched ? 
Why , if it had not been a cavalier that I took up this blessed morning , before the heats began , to carry him to a pretty villa that he has close almost to the borders of the canal -- and , between you and I , I carried a pretty Signora along with him -- his reason , no doubt , for setting off at such an hour , so private , you know -- Well , if it had not been for that , I say , which is no business either of mine or yours , -LRB- I was well enough paid -RRB- -- the devil a gondola you might have caught that way these six days . 
Victoria , who had long ceased to attend to the long-winded dissertation of the gondolier , catching only his last words , most cordially assented to them , at the same time expressing her gratitude for his goodnature . 
To this the gondolier made no other reply than a broad significant grin , winking at the same time one eye , alluding , as Victoria supposed , to the lover she had told him of ; and then began again with the song he had been singing before she hailed him . 
Soon , to her infinite joy , Victoria beheld the towers and domes of stately Venice rising proudly from the Adriatic , encircled round by its green arms . 
Victoria turned to thank the gondolier for his kindness -- he nodded and smiled , and helped her out of the gondola , whispering in her ear , that he should never at any time object to do so pretty a girl a service . 
Once more at liberty , and at her own disposal , secure too in her disguise , Victoria , without trepidation , mixed with the gay crowd of St. Mark 's Place , in the faint hope , perhaps , of discovering among them one to whom her heart involuntarily pointed . 
Victoria drew back -- the mask rejoined the group he had a moment separated from , and was soon lost in the crowd . 
Bitter was the vexation and disappointment of Victoria ; -- by happy accident was thus discovered , and in the same moment lost , him on whom her chief hopes depended ! 
But still the splendid illusion of the scene remained -- the mind of Victoria was supremely elastic , and she consoled herself with the reflection that she was still in Venice , and at liberty . 
She continued mechanically moving along , till at length she found herself in a more retired part of the city , where resided some of the inferior inhabitants . 
From this place she hastened ; but every where the brilliancy of the scene began now to fade ; the night was considerably advanced ; the gay crowd , visibly diminishing , had entered their houses to carouse ; and the splendid light decreasing , assumed the appearance of a twilight gilded by the last rays of the setting sun . 
The adventurous Victoria now began to perceive the possibility there existed of passing another night without shelter : the reflection was unwelcome to her feelings ; but she preferred it to the remotest risk of discovery , by seeking out any of her former acquaintances , or dependants . 
Again , therefore , seating herself beneath a portico , she leaned lier head upon her hand , and gave way to reflections of a gloomy tendency . 
She was hungry and fatigued ; and these circumstances added to the depression of her spirits . 
Suddenly a voice sounded in her ear -- `` Follow me . '' 
She raised her head , but perceived no one ; again therefore she covered her eyes with her hand , and endeavoured to resume her train of thought . 
She started , and instinctively arose . 
The portico at which she had seated herself was the first in the street . 
A tall figure darted as it were from behind her : it appeared enveloped in a dark cloak ; and retreating swiftly to such a distance as to render its actual presence dubious , beckoned in an inclining attitude to Victoria . 
Glad even of so mysterious , perhaps dangerous , a mandate , she hastened to obey , as fast as her enfeebled limbs would allow . 
The stranger perceiving that she did so , again retreated ; but still continuing to invite , Victoria still pursued : at length , in a deserted part , he stopped . 
Victoria approached : he encircled her waist ; and , drawing aside his cloak , she discovered the spangled habit , and the figure of Berenza ! 
he hastily exclaimed , perceiving she was about to express her joy ; then again withdrawing himself , he proceeded towards a small door in the street , at which he gave three distinct knocks . 
It opened cautiously : he put forth his hand , and beckoned Victoria ; she drew near ; he seized her arm , and conducting her into the house , the door closed . 
They had not walked many paces through a dark narrow entry , before Berenza stopped ; and , taking a handkerchief from his pocket , bound it lightly over the eyes of Victoria , saying to her , in a low voice -- `` Fear not ; this shall not be for long . '' 
Victoria only smiled , and did not answer . 
The Conte pressed the hand of Victoria , and bade her take the bandage from her eyes : she did so , and instantly uttered an exclamation of pleasure and surprise ; for a sumptuous and brilliantly illuminated chamber struck upon her dazzled sight : the walls were covered with large resplendant mirrors , that variously reflected her simply attired but graceful figure . 
Berenza appeared for a moment to enjoy her surprise ; then , fervently pressing her in his arms , he said -- `` Here my lovely and beloved Victoria will be sole mistress ; she will no more fly from the man who more than life adores her . '' 
repeated Victoria -- `` I never fled from thee , Berenza ! '' 
So saying , he gently seated Victoria upon a superb sopha , and for a few moments left her to herself . 
The most pleasing ideas now took possession of her mind , as in a recumbent posture she awaited the return of Berenza . 
Her fatigues , her difficulties , even her imprisonment , all was forgotten in her present prospect of long desired happiness . 
`` Now , then , cruel and ungenerous mother , '' she exclaimed , `` thou canst no longer deprive me of a happiness similar to that which thou so selfishly enjoyest ! 
As she concluded this wild expression of her misguided sentiments , Berenza entered : he had heard what she had uttered ; and , pleased as he undoubtedly was that chance had thrown in his way the girl he had admired and loved , yet his delicate and refined mind experienced a sansation of regret at the avowed freedom of her principles . 
But mentally he promised himself to restrain and correct the improper bias of Victoria 's character ; for Berenza , though a refined voluptuary , possessed a noble , virtuous , and philosophic soul . 
He seated himself by the side of Victoria , and gently took her hand . 
`` You have undergone considerable exertion this day , '' he said , gazing on her countenance , `` have you not , my sweet Victoria ? '' 
Victoria smiled , and great was the dismay of Berenza , when he learned that for upwards of twenty-four hours she had not tasted food . 
He instantly forbade her to utter another word till nature was recruited , and the moment a collation he had ordered made its appearance , he tenderly pressed her to eat ; nor till he thought her sufficiently refreshed , would he reply to the most pressing of her eager interrogatories respecting the real cause of his precipitate departure from Monte Bello . 
At length , when he explained to her this circumstance , and his conviction at the time of having acted expressly consonant to her own wishes , nothing could exceed the rage she evinced at the deception which had been practiced ; and unwilling as was Berenza to countenance or encourage the undue violence of her disposition , he could scarcely avoid participating the expression of her sentiments . 
The gross unworthiness of the parental duplicity had surprised and disgusted him ; and if for a moment before he had been disposed to lament the effect of her daughter 's flight upon the mind of Laurina , he now felt that compassionating sentiment give way to one of pleasure that Victoria had escaped , and escaped to him . 
It appeared too , in the course of his explanation to Victoria , that surprised at not receiving form her the smallest intelligence for a length of time , though according to the intimation in the note , he was taught to expect he might shortly hear from her he had , impatient at the delay , presented himself recalled at Monte Bello ; there had be learned , that by her own desire his fair mistress had taken her departure there from thence , and had expressly required that he should be kept in ignorance of her retreat ; for that reflection having convinced her of the imprepriety of encouraging his attentions , she had determined to endeavour at least to overcome it , and therefore conceived that absence was the most likely , nay the only mode of forwarding so desirable a point . 
The history of Victoria 's sufferings at the Signora de Modena 's ; the mode of her escape ; her difficulties , her precautions to avoid being traced -- all , all must be detailed and expatiated on ere she would think of retiring . 
Berenza at length ventured to recur to the necessity there was for her taking some rest . 
Unwillingly , at his delicate solicitation , she agreed to do so , when summoning some female attendants , he ordered them to shew her to the chamber which had been hastily prepared for her . 
No sooner had Victoria reached her apartment than she requested her attendants to withdraw , for she was desirous of indulging alone the influx of her ideas ; delight and pleasure had such complete possession of her , that scarce could her trembling hands perform the office of disrobing herself . 
Long too after she had entered her elegant bed -LRB- which rose in the form of a dome , bordered with deep gold fringe -RRB- did her buoyant spirits drive sleep from her pillow . 
At length , however , her ardent imagination became overpowered ; she fell asleep , and brilliant fantasies gamboled before her in the dreams of the night . 
Berenza too retired to repose , but his reasoning mind , though in such recent attainment of a desired good , was placid and unruffled ; the images which occupied it were devoid of the romantic trappings of fancy ; he beheld Victoria such as she really was , unembellished , unornamented ; his keen eye that perceived her beauties , discerned likewise her defects . 
He appreciated her character ; he beheld at once her pride , her stubbornness , her violence , her fierté . 
Victoria beneath his roof , voluntarily in his power , he had leisure to revise and amplify on those errors , which , while she seemed unattainable , struck him in a point of view infinitely less momentous . 
The sun had risen far above the horizon when Victoria awakened : she hastily arose , and perceived that the peasant 's garb had been exchanged for habiliments more resembling those she had till now been accustomed to wear . 
This she with justice attributed to the delicate attention of Berenza . 
Dressing herself , she summoned attendance , and was informed that Il Conte Berenza had been long waiting breakfast for her , and desired them to conduct her to the apartment where he was . 
She found him sitting upon a sopha , with breakfast things before him . 
On her entrance he rose , and conducted her to sit beside him . 
His demeanor towards her was rather that of a sincere and a tender friend , than of an ardent lover ; for the mind of Berenza , ever aiming at perfection , felt , that ere he could avow himself the latter , he must himself new model the object . 
During breakfast he conversed upon indifferent subjects ; but more sedulously and more anxious than ever did he scrutinise her , as though in her air and in her eyes he would read every movement of her soul . 
Victoria perceived that embarrassment clouded the manners of the Conte . 
She sought by every means to draw him from his apparent abstraction , and gaily taking : his hand , she said -- `` Berenza , why are you not chearful ? 
Berenza rose during the speech of Victoria . 
A new idea had taken possession of his mind -- it was the tormenting the , useless reflection , that perhaps he was not particularly distinguished by the confidence of Victoria , that perhaps she had flown to him merely as a refuge from discomfort and oppression , and that had another addressed her , she would equally have shown to him . 
This suggestion struck a pang to the heart of the refining philosopher ; suppressing his emotion , however , and taking the hand of Victoria , he only said -- `` You have often , my love , known me abstracted and thoughtful , without any particular reason occurring at the moment -- heed me not , and I shall speedily be myself again . '' 
`` Then I will withdraw to my chamber , my Lord , '' said Victoria , secretly piqued and disgusted that her presence should not be a talisman against every species of uneasiness . 
Employ yourself a few hours apart from me -- we will meet at dinner , and in the evening repair to the Laguna , where my Victoria will be the fairest . 
Victoria withdrew , but her air was indignant ; and Berenza observing it , sighed as he gazed after her , mentally exclaiming , `` Victoria , how imperfect thou art -- fool that I was , '' he continued , I never possessed either the heart or the mind of this girl -- circumstances only have impelled her towards me -- Oh ! 
The Conte assisted Victoria into his , which was splendid and gaily accoutred . 
Happy was the vain Victoria to find herself thus in the midst of the gay world . 
The scene elevated her spirits : she blest the moment when she had escaped from the tyranny of a discontented bigot . 
She cast her eyes around , and she perceived that she had excited that attention and admiration she so much loved to obtain . 
She even fancied that the Venetian belles viewed her with an air of envy -- the idea was doubly pleasing and her animation increased . 
But she did not for a moment suppose that this envy was excited on account of the companion who sat beside her . 
Victoria excited therefore universal envy in one sex , and she likewise excited universal admiration in the other . 
The notice she attracted filled her vain ambitious heart with exultation , and it was with infinite regret she left the gay covered lake , to return to the Pallazzo of her lover . 
Flattered by the attention she had excited , the philosophic Berenza viewed her involuntarily with a feeling of encreased approbation ; for true it is man is too apt to be guided in his estimate of things by the degree of estimation they may obtain from others , and to be influenced in his opinion by the standard -LRB- often depraved -RRB- of the public taste . 
Supper being prepared for them , the Conte began wholly to relax from the restraint he had imposed upon his manner ; he seated himself with a smiling air by the delighted Victoria , who instantly availed herself of the gaiety and unreserve of his manner to ask an explanation of what had more than once obtruded itself upon her mind . 
Looking somewhat archly in his countenance , she said -- `` Tell me , Berenza , if the question be not improper , why with so much caution and mystery you first acknowledged your recognition of me , and conducted me hither , yet now carelessly exhibit yourself with me in public ? '' 
said the Conte , laughing ; -- `` but I will tell thee , Victoria . '' 
`` I believe , fair Victoria , '' pursued the Conte , smiling , and taking her hand , `` I have now explained all that may have appeared mysterious to you . '' 
`` You have , my Lord , '' answered Victoria ; `` but you still -- still visit Megalena then ? '' 
she pursued , while her jealous eyes wandered . 
`` But , my lord , '' said the artful Victoria , with an air of innocence , unwilling to proceed too far , `` you love me too well , I hope , to think of another while I am with you ? '' 
`` Sweet Victoria , '' exclaimed Berenza ; `` that is spoken like yourself . 
Once for all , Victoria , be assured it is not in the power of a Megalena to attract me from thee . 
-- Victoria ! '' 
grasping her hand , `` dost thou mark me ? 
Victoria smiled with ineffable dignity : she laid her hand upon the arm of Berenza , and said -- `` Yes , I have courage to become every thing to you . 
she pursued with a serious air . 
`` But thou must love me , Victoria , me alone , '' said Berenza , fixing his eyes upon her countenance . 
she said . 
`` Thou art a stranger to the turnings and windings of thine own heart , '' mentally added he ; then rising hastily , he took the hand of Victoria -- `` Retire , '' he said , in a gentle voice , `` retire to repose , and to-morrow we shall meet again . '' 
He led her to the door , and saluted her hand . 
Some time passed on thus , and still Berenza , languishing for positive conviction of Victoria 's love for him , continued to treat her as a beloved and innocent sister , rather than as a destined mistress ; for though his taste in female beauty led him to view that of Victoria with the eye of an enraptured amateur , still was he too scrupulously refined to accept the privilege fortune had thrown in his way , or anticipate , by premature encroachment , the smallest of the pleasures he promised himself for the future , when she should prove to him -LRB- delightful idea ! -RRB- 
In vain would he sometimes seek for a trait of innocent tenderness in the countenance of Victoria ; something that should convince him he was beloved . 
The singularity of his conduct surprised Victoria : she endeavoured to investigate the cause , and to trace , if possible , the workings of his mind . 
So reasoned , from combined inferences , the subtle Victoria . 
Victoria 's heart was a stranger to every gentle , noble , or superior feeling . 
The ambitious , the selfish , the wild , and the turbulent were her 's . 
Her 's were the stormy passions of the soul , goading on to ruin and despair -- Berenza 's were mild , philosophic , though proudly tenacious . 
His were as the even stream , calm , yet deep -- her 's as the foaming cataract , rushing headlong from the rocky steep , and raging in the abyss below ! 
She was not susceptible of a single sentiment , vibrating from a tender movement of the heart : she could not feel gratitude ; she could not , therefore , feel affection . 
She could inflict pain without remorse , and she could bitterly revenge the slightest attempt to inflict it on herself . 
The wildest passions predominated in her bosom ; to gratify them she possessed an unshrinking relentless soul , that would not startle at the darkest crime . 
Victoria saw , exultingly saw , the gradual operation of her plan . 
It was one night , after a day of well-acted gloom and oppression of spirits , that Victoria , having left the apartment occupied by the Conte , retired into the saloon , and throwing herself upon a sopha near one of the windows , enjoyed the delicious fresco of the evening . 
She had not been long in this situation , before Berenza , unable to bear her absence , determined to seek her in the saloon , and perceiving her reclined upon a sopha , imagined she slept . 
Closing gently the door , therefore , he softly approached her . 
In an instant , an idea had glanced across the mind of Victoria : she determined to avail herself of this circumstance , and of Berenza 's mistake . 
Shutting her eyes , she affected in reality to be asleep : the Conte drew near , and gazing upon her for a few moments , he seated himself beside her . 
`` Oh , Victoria ! '' 
Victoria , as if disturbed in her sleep , heaved a broken sigh , faintly giving utterance to the name of `` Berenza . '' 
she murmured . 
Victoria was sensible of his emotion -- `` One word more , '' thought she . 
she articulated , starting up , and stretching out her arms , as if under the impression of her dream , attempting to embrace him ; when opening her eyes , and affecting surprise and shame at the sight of Berenza , she covered her face with her hands , and turned aside . 
The blood rushed from his heart to his head ; his senses became confused , when , seizing wildly in his arms the artful Victoria , he exclaimed , in hurried accents -- `` Thou art mine ! 
Proud of her achievement , it was Victoria 's care that her lover should not recover from his delusion : well did she support the character she had assumed ; and the tender refined Berenza became convinced , that he possessed the first pure and genuine affections of an innocent and lovely girl ! 
Berenza became daily more attached to Victoria : his scrupulous doubts , his reserves , wholly vanished , and fondly he flattered himself , that he was as much the possessor of her dearest affections , as she was the mistress over his . 
Of this sentiment , however , the haughty Victoria was unconscious , and she simply imagined that her present union with the Conte was chosen by him expressly for the purpose of convincing her , that his devotion towards her needed not the aid of artificial ties to rivet it . 
Under this impression , her vain spirit was flattered ; and little did she ever suppose , that while the proud Venetian deemed her worthy of becoming his mistress , he conceived her unfit for the high distinction of becoming his wife . 
It was one beautiful evening , that , accompanied by the admired Victoria , Berenza , in his splendid gondola , mixed with the gay concourse upon the Laguna . 
Every one appeared exhilarated ; and , Victoria , gazing around , felt in the moment that she excited the admiration so dear to her soul , that she required nothing more in the power of man to bestow . 
While her eyes still wandered , exacting attention from all , a gondola passed close by that of Berenza 's : it contained only one female besides the gondolieri , who , in the moment of rapidly passing , fixed her eyes upon Victoria with a rage and malignity so exquisitely bitter , that it was impossible , momentary as was the glance , that its expression could be mistaken . 
For an instant Victoria was awakened from her dream of vanity : she looked at Berenza ; but perceiving , from the unaltered expression of his countenance , that he had not observed the circumstance , she thought it too insignificant to advert to , and other objects soon made her forget it altogether . 
At a late hour the company separated , and Victoria and the Conte retired to repose . 
Victoria , however , felt no inclination to sleep : the festive scenes of the evening passed in mirthful review before her , the music still sounded in her ears , and the dancers still figured in her sight . 
She skimmed over in her mind the adulation , the elegant and well-turned compliments she had received , and in idea again she enjoyed and smiled at them . 
Then she reverted to her evening 's amusement on the Laguna and , on reverting to that , she suddenly remembered the look she had received from the female who had passed so swiftly by . 
She was on the point of mentioning to the Conte this circumstance ; but perceiving , that , overcome by wine and the fatigue of the evening , he slept , she would not awaken him , and pursued the diversified current of her ideas . 
Still , however , she could not lose the remembrance of this malignant glance , and was embarrassing herself in vain conjectures as to the cause which should induce any one to view her with particular rancour , when a gentle rustling at the further end of the chamber caught her attention : this interrupted her thoughts , and called them to external objects . 
The bed on which she lay was surmounted by a superb canopy , the curtains were drawn on each side , but remained opened at the foot . 
The rustling increased ; she fixed her eyes on the opposite side of the room , where a large window jutted out and opened into a balcony on the outside : the window itself was concealed by a thick curtain ; by degrees this curtain was moved a little on one side ; half the figure of a man became visible , and presently the whole . 
The chamber was faintly enlightened by a lamp ; and she observed , as softly , though with long strides , the figure approached , that his face was concealed by a mask : at length he reached the side of the bed at which the Conte slept , and gently divided the curtains . 
Victoria firmly now believed some evil was intended , yet feared to awaken Berenza , lest his surprise and alarm , by depriving him of requisite presence of mind , should hasten any attempt against him , which she hoped herself , by being awake and remaining tranquil , to circumvent . 
The intruder now stood at the side of the bed , and paused ; then stooping down , he examined earnestly the face of the Conte : the countenance of Victoria he could not see , for her arm was thrown over her head in such a manner that her hand concealed her eyes , though she could observe all that passed , and the lower part of her face was shaded by the covering . 
The stranger , however , appeared to imagine that she slept ; for , drawing a dagger from his bosom , he waved it to and fro near the closed eyes of the unconscious Berenza ; then gently uncovering his bosom , approached the point of the dagger towards it . 
Just as the dagger was descending , the undaunted and watchful Victoria caught his wrist : the force of the intended blow being thus broken , the assassin , who was in an inclining attitude , lost his equilibrium , and falling across the bed , the point of the dagger entered the shoulder of Victoria . 
As he did so , he could not , however , prevent his mask from falling off : he sought to recover it , and rush from the spot ; but , ere he could atchieve his purpose , the eyes of the wounded and fainting Victoria were rivetted upon a countenance that memory immediately identified for her brother ! 
Berenza , now released , started from the bed ; but , as he was flying after the assassin , a faint groan from Victoria arrested him : he turned , and beheld the bed-clothes dyed in blood . 
`` Only slightly , my lord , '' murmured Victoria ; `` but I do -- I do not regret it ! '' 
Berenza , in agony , vociferated for assistance : he dispatched the servants fifty different ways for medical aid ; then taking Victoria in his arms , he examined the wound , while the big tears of love and anguish fell upon her bosom . 
faintly ejaculated Victoria . 
And , in fact , Victoria did rejoice ; for she felt that the wound obtained in defence of her lover 's life -LRB- and of which her firm mind entertained no apprehensions -RRB- would bind his inseparably to her ; -- the triumph she experienced , then , when she beheld his violent anguish , more than repaid her for the pain she felt . 
She essayed to take his hand , and press it to her bosom ; but all her firmness , all her contempt of pain , could not conquer the weakness of nature , and she fainted from loss of blood . '' 
By degrees she was recovered from her temporary insensibility . 
The Conte seated himself by her bedside , and gazed in agony upon her . 
She turned her eyes upon him , the brilliancy of which had given place to a seducing languor , that penetrated Berenza 's inmost soul , and in his mind he vowed that his whole life henceforth should be dedicated to her happiness . 
He now felt that she was dearer , far dearer to him , than he had ever imagined . 
On the noble and enthusiastic soul of Berenza the conduct of Victoria had wrought the most powerful effect -- such cool intrepidity , such contempt of her own life in the defence of his -- the patience , nay the pleasure with which she bore the unhappy consequences of her courage : -- `` What woman in existence , '' thought he , `` would have done thus much for me ? '' 
Victoria determined carefully to conceal from her lover her conviction that the intended assassin was her brother . 
A certain indefinable feeling prevented her from confessing her knowledge , and she was fain to rejoice in his escape ; but of his motives for an attempt so heinous she could form not the smallest idea . 
His whole thoughts were concentered in Victoria , and he looked forward with impatient anxiety to the much desired period of her recovery . 
Scarcely could he be prevailed on to quit her bedside , even to obtain necessary repose , and what little food he could be induced to take , was taken without stirring from her chamber . 
In a few days , however , to reward such unwearied anxiety , Victoria was enabled to leave her bed , and by marks of attachment , apparently more strong than ever , repaid the care and tenderness of her lover . 
Raised by her seducing manners to a pitch of enthusiasm , Berenza sometimes wavered in his pride , and almost determined that he would make her his wife , the moment that her re-established health should permit him to do so . 
One day , while sitting with her in her apartment , -LRB- a fortnight having nearly elapsed since the accident which had confined her there -RRB- a letter was delivered by a servant into his hands -- opening it he read as follows : -- `` Wretch ! 
As he concluded , he gave the letter to Victoria , who , after hastily perusing it , exclaimed -- `` That look ! 
Then turning towards Berenza , she explained to him the circumstance to which she alluded , and which , at the moment of its occurrence , so forcibly called her attention -- nay , had even employed her thoughts just before the projected attempt upon his life took place . 
While she spoke , Berenza did indeed recognize the vindictive Florentine ; but anxiously , though silently , did Victoria ransack her brain , to discover what connection could possibly subsist between this female and her brother ; a connection evidently of no slight nature , that could already so deeply have influenced his character and conduct as to drive him to the intended commission of murder ! 
to the very brink of destruction , for her sake . 
Recurring frequently to vain surmises upon this subject , and rapidly recovering from the effects of her wound , for the present let us leave her , to explain certain events which will carry us back to an earlier period of this history . 
It may be remembered , that when detailing the misfortunes which befel the family of Loredani , in consequence of the desertion of Laurina from her husband and children , to the arms of an adulterer , we related at that epoch the sudden flight of the young Leonardo from his paternal roof , to which he had never more returned . 
It so happened , that , about this time Berenza had recovered his beloved Victoria ; the absence , therefore , of the fair Megalena remained not only unnoticed , but unknown ; while she secretly congratulated herself upon the revenge she believed herself to be taking upon the indifference of Berenza towards her ; yet , indifferent as he was , the Florentine could not forget that she had loved him once with a passion almost equal to that which she now felt for Leonardo : and whether or not he still continued to repay her diminished regards with all the ardent gratitude she had the vanity to conceive her due for having once preferred him to all other men , she vowed in her heart that the hour in which she should discover in him a preference to another should be the last of his existence . 
On hearing Berenza and Victoria enter , he had stepped into it for greater security , and perceived , with no indifferent feeling , that it would , in case of necessity , afford him an opportunity of escape . 
`` I do not -- I have mortally wounded Victoria di Loredani , my sister ! 
and Victoria , his sister ! 
In an instant the recollection flashed upon his mind , that , in endeavouring to recover his mask , he had never thought of retrieving his dagger likewise , which he did not even remember to have drawn from the bosom of Victoria , where fully he believed himself to have plunged it . 
Youth , and that strength of mind which precluded hypochondriac malady , did not permit Victoria to languish long under the effects of her wound ; she grew rapidly convalescent , but , during her inevitable confinement , external objects not intervening much to distract her regards by flattering her vanity , she had full leisure to concentrate her great and varied powers into one point -- that of rendering herself an object of such moment to her lover , that he should consider , with horror , the bare possibility of losing her , and be anxious to bind her more completely his , by ties esteemed indissoluble . 
But such had already been the effect produced upon Berenza , by conduct which he could not help considering proof of the most heroic love , as well as courage , that he no longer viewed her with tender passion only , but with the strongest sentiments of gratitude and enthusiastic admiration . 
Who but Victoria could possess , at once , such tender and such exalted sentiments towards a lover ? 
Longer to doubt the truth , the romantic ardour of her attachment , would , he esteemed , be sacrilege ; his ideas underwent a wonderful , but natural revolution -- no more the haughty Berenza , proud of his noble , his unsullied blood , fearing to dash it with a tincture of disgrace ! 
So complete and powerful a dominion had the act of Victoria obtained over his mind , that his proud and dignified attachment , softened into a doating and idolatrous love . 
In short , he felt that now , to be happy , to conciliate his conscience , and to atone to Victoria for his past injustice , he must make her his wife . 
Unable long to contend against the strong impulse of his heart , he waited only for the re-establishment of Victoria 's health , to pour out his feelings at her feet , and to offer to her the unworthy gift of himself . 
When , therefore , he thought her sufficiently recovered to permit him to touch upon a subject , that must , as he supposed , occasion some emotion , he no longer withheld himself from giving utterance to what had of late so often risen from an overflowing heart to his lips . 
Victoria heard him with a look of complacency , and all that softness she knew so well how to assume ; but pride having always kept her from surmising the struggles of Berenza upon her subject , and that he had not till this period offered to become her husband , because till this period he had deemed her unworthy to become his wife ; having never surmised this , she betrayed no immediate emotion , or unspeakable delight ; no overpowering transport , or surprise ; but listened to him in silence , with an acquiescent smile . 
This being considered by Berenza as a coolness of demeanor uncongenial to the subject , he mentally attributed it to wounded pride in Victoria that he had not sooner made her an offer of his hand . 
His own noble delicacy caught the alarm , and his liberal soul acknowledged the justice of her feeling ; anxious then to remove from her mind every uneasy impression , the ardour of his manner increased , and he prayed of Victoria to pardon the unworthiness of his past scruples . 
Here Berenza erred ; had he stopped at the simple intention of offering his hand to Victoria , he had done right ; but his last insinuation , though broken and obscure , darted like lightning through her brain , and struck to her proud heart as a three-edged dagger ! 
Her brow lowered , she turned of an ashy paleness , as sudden hatred and desire of revenge took possession of her vindictive soul . 
The conviction flashed upon her , that she had till this moment been deemed by Berenza unworthy of becoming his wife . 
`` The secret then is betrayed , '' thought she ; `` the sort of union into which he entered with me , and which vainly I preferred as a proof of his love for me , was desired by him only as being least offensive to his dignity and pride -- 't is well -- '' Rapidly these ideas passed through the mind of Victoria ; and , while secretly vowing the offence should never be forgotten , she again harmonised her features , and clothed them with smiles : since such had been the sentiments of Berenza , it now became unquestionably a desirable point to become at once his wife . 
The changes of Victoria 's countenance were only attributed by her lover to an unconquerable emotion , which she struggled to conceal , at this undeniable proof of the strength of his attachment to her ; delicately solicitous to raise her in her own eyes , he , with pressing earnestness , entreated of her a prompt compliance to their union . 
Victoria fixed upon him her eyes , pregnant with an unusual expression , for busy were her evil thoughts against him . 
answered Victoria . 
`` I will ; answered Victoria -- I most ardently desire to become thy wife . '' 
Berenza , who understood nothing by these expressions but simply what met the ear , viewed her with an increase of tenderness and admiration ; for it is a principle in human nature to exalt in our minds those objects we are determined to favor and elevate . 
A very short period from this beheld Victoria di Loredani the wife of Il Conte Berenza ; and becoming so , her faults in the eyes of an admiring husband were wholly obliterated , and her better qualities appeared to shine forth with redoubled effect . 
In having made his Victoria an honorable wife , he experienced a noble and benevolent satisfaction , which had for its basis the reflection of having raised to a level with the higher class of society , her whom he might have been instrumental in sinking to that of the lowest . 
But though the conduct of the refined Berenza was such as to claim and to deserve the highest gratitude and love , the vindictive spirit of Victoria could not forget that he had once deemed her unworthy of ranking on an equality with himself ; for this , in her moments of solitude , her heart swelled with unforgiving hate : she despised and undervalued the advantages she possessed , and fed the discontented repinings of her mind , by recalling to memory the moment when he unfortunately betrayed the state of his sentiments respecting her . 
Thus was it with Victoria : she knew , and felt , that Berenza was her superior , and she imagined that he must feel it likewise ; every word , every look , every action , she thought reproached her with her former degradation , and the abjectness from which it had pleased him to raise her . 
Then , turning towards Victoria , as surprise and delight permitted him to recover himself , `` Behold a beloved brother , my Victoria , '' he said ; `` and you , my brother , behold an adored wife : now , now , indeed , may I expect to be truly happy . '' 
Henriquez pressed the hand of his brother , and paid some graceful compliments to Victoria , who , gazing upon him with admiration , in an instant drew ungrateful comparisons between their persons , to the disadvantage of him in whom her soul should have discerned no fault . 
Victoria listened in silence to the conversation , and an indefinite sentiment , resembling regret , glanced through her bosom , when she thereby discovered that the affections of the young Henriquez were so deeply engaged . 
At length they separated for the night : the lover to dream of the fair creature that in the morning he hoped to embrace ; and the disturbed Victoria to arrange , if possible , the confusion of idea that floated in her mind . 
Soon as propriety might in the least admit , he flew to her residence : the fair Lilla received him indeed with all the warmth , with all the affection he could have wished , but his buoyant hopes were quelled by what she said in reply to his eager solicitations to become immediately his . 
On the evening of the same day she consented , accompanied by her relation , to visit Victoria ; for it was under that shape alone that Henriquez had ventured to propose her seeing him at the pallazzo of his brother : he then once more departed , and related to Berenza his second attempt , with the success it had met upon the conscientiousness and delicacy of his mistress . 
In the evening , according to promise , the fair girl made her appearance , and was by Henriquez introduced to the Conte and to Victoria , as his destined wife : but never , ah , surely never , was unconscious guest received with feelings and with thoughts so hostile as was the innocent Lilla by Victoria ! 
Dark and dreadful are the intricacies of the human heart , when debased as was Victoria 's . 
Almost unknowing to herself , she conceived immediate hatred for the orphan Lilla , because she was dear , because she was beloved by Henriquez , and Henriquez had appeared charming in her eyes . 
It was the early influence of this new-born sentiment that had generated one so base , and Victoria 's was not a noble and an honorable mind , that would combat in itself feelings that were improper to be indulged ; rather would she have sought their gratification , unmindful of the misery that might be produced to others . 
As though the curse of Laurina were entailed upon her daughter , -LRB- that of becoming absorbed by a guilty and devouring flame , with the single exception that , in the case of the former , the heart and mind had been involuntarity seduced by a designing betrayer , while the other cherished and encouraged an increasing passion for one who attempted her not , and which common honor should have taught her to repel -RRB- , Victoria dwelt with unrestrained delight upon the attractions of the object , that had presented itself to her fickle and ill-regulated mind . 
From her infancy untaught , therefore unaccustomed to subdue herself , she had no conception of that refined species of virtue which consists in self-denial ; the proud triumph of mind over the weakness of the heart , she had ever been unconscious of ; education had never corrected the evil propensities that were by nature hers : hence pride , stubbornness , the gratification of self , contempt and ignorance of the nobler properties of the mind , with a strong tincture of the darker passions , revenge , hate , and cruelty , made up the sum of her early character . 
Example , a mother 's example , had more than corroborated every tendency to evil , and the unhappy Victoria was destitute of a single actuating principle , that might , in consideration of its guilt , deter her from the pursuit of a favorite object . 
Her mind , alas , was an eternal night , which the broad beam of virtue never illumined . 
Henriquez was the subject of her thoughts by day ; he employed her fancy by night ; his form presented itself if she awoke ; he figured in her dreams if she slumbered ; daily , nay momentarily , her unchecked passion acquired strength : already she viewed with disgust , heightened by unfading remembrance of the sentiments he had once entertained respecting her , the being who had claims so strong upon her gratitude and affection . 
Time rolled on , and the effervescence of Victoria 's mind increased almost to madness . 
At this vision , a deep groan broke in sleep from the miserable Victoria ; she endeavoured to turn her eyes from them , but could not , and , while the most horrible and raging pains shot through her heart , they suddenly disappeared from before her , and she found herself alone , in a remote part of the garden . 
Victoria contemplated this figure with an inexplicable awe , and , as she gazed , he bent his knee , and extended his arms towards her . 
While in this attitude , her mind filled with terror , she looked upon him with dread , and essaying to fly , she stumbled and awoke . 
Reflecting on her dream , she could attribute it only to the disturbed state of her mind ; and , desirous if possible to forget for a few moments her pain , she again endeavoured to sleep . 
Scarcely had thought become again suspended , ere fancy took the lead ; she now saw herself in a church brilliantly illuminated , when , horrible to her eyes , approaching the altar near which she stood , appeared Lilla , led by Henriquez and attired as a bride ! 
But Victoria hesitated , and cast her eyes upon Henriquez : the Moor stepped back , and again the hand of Henriquez became joined with Lilla 's . 
eagerly cried Victoria , overcome by intense horror at the thoughts of their union . 
Exultation filled the bosom of Victoria ; she attempted to take the hand of Henriquez ; but casting her eyes upon him , she beheld him changed to a frightful skeleton , and in terror awoke ! 
She became at length gloomy and abstracted , from mere incapacity to develop her own sensations ; but to be gloomy and abstracted , had of late ceased in her to become remarkable ; and , while the excellent Berenza in secret deplored this change in his beloved Victoria , he forbore the slightest reproach , endeavouring only , by the kindest and most delicate attentions , to disperse her frequent melancholy : the innocent Lilla too , with gentle sweetness , would sometimes approach , and seek , by endearment or lively converse , to remove what was so evident to all . 
But the efforts of the lovely girl appeared rather to injure than to benefit Victoria , they roused her from her dejection indeed , but excited strong irritability , and feelings of the bitterest nature . 
Solitude in general seemed to delight her most ; and , as she had denied to Berenza that she possessed any definable cause of melancholy , in that he permitted her to indulge ; hoping , unsuspicious of the evil in her heart , that her mind , by its own efforts , would recover its tone . 
As for Henriquez , though he treated her with friendship and respect , as the wife of his brother , he did no more : first , because he was absorbed in Lilla ; and , secondly , because being so completely , both in mind and person , the reverse of that pure and delicate being , he not only failed to view them as two creatures of the same class , but almost thought of Victoria with a tincture of dislike , from the very circumstance of her being so opposite to his lovely mistress . 
It happened that , some few days after the singular dreams of Victoria , while their impression and their tendency still occupied her mind , that the Moor , Zofloya , became suddenly missing ! 
As he was so highly prized by Henriquez , and admired by all , this circumstance caused infinite consternation throughout the pallazzo ; and none indeed did it affect more strongly -LRB- most inconceivably to herself -RRB- than Victoria . 
This request of a dying man , the benevolent Berenza readily complied with ; Henriquez likewise consented to accompany him , and Victoria , she knew not why , begged permission to be present . 
exclaimed Victoria . 
Great was the grief of Victoria on hearing , thus circumstantially detailed , the loss and destruction of one who had began so deeply to interest her thoughts . 
She found it impossible to account for the degree of feeling which affected her ; she had never been conscious of the slightest predeliction in favor of the Moor , and , till the circumstance of his impressing her mind from appearing in her dreams , had never even cast a thought more than common upon him . 
From that period , indeed , she had been most inexplicably interested about him , nor could she for any length of time banish his idea from her mind . 
It was vain , therefore , that she essayed to feel indifferent to the reflection of his unhappy fate ; she found it impossible , and experienced a weight at her heart , as if under the impression of having sustained a heavy loss . 
All started from their seats , and Victoria , overcome with mixed emotions , sunk into hers again ; an explanation of his astonishing and unlooked for return was hastily demanded by his master , when , gracefully bowing , the Moor gave of himself the following account : `` Of the cause of Latoni 's hatred towards me I am wholly unconscious ; he frequently sought my life , and on the night that he followed me with murderous intent , and wounded me repeatedly with his stiletto , I discerned whose hand aimed the blows , but was not empowered to make effectual resistance , being , as it happened , wholly unarmed . 
He demonstrated , however , visible joy at the intelligence , and returning thanks , submissive yet dignified , for the kindness manifested towards him , respectfully withdrew from the apartment , casting , as he went , a look of the most animated gratitude upon Victoria , as though his heart thanked her for the interest she had appeared to take in his story , beyond what his respect would permit him to express . 
As for Victoria , in proportion as she had been miserable at the disappearance of the Moor , in so much was she rejoiced to behold him again . 
Her heart dilated with an unaccountable delight , with which the image of Henriquez was deeply connected ; for she thought of him with less of jealous agony , and more of confidence and hope , as though , strange as it appeared , the mere presence of Zofloya possessed a secret charm to facilitate her wishes . 
This idea gave an animation to her countenance , and a flow to her spirits , that for some time had not been perceptible in her . 
The innocent Lilla , too , caressed her with heartfelt pleasure , and Victoria returned her caresses with a gloomy eagerness , as the murderer might be tempted to fondle the beauty of the babe , whose life he intended to take . 
Henriquez , always participating in the pleasures and sorrows of his mistress , paid too a more than usual attention to Victoria ; but it was an attention in compliment to Lilla , to a brother whom he loved , and not the spontaneous effusions of his heart to her . 
On this night Victoria retired to bed with feelings of delight , that teemed with woe to others . 
Scarcely had her head reclined upon her pillow , ere the image of Zofloya swam in her sight ; she slumbered , and he haunted her dreams ; sometimes she wandered with him over beds of flowers , sometimes over craggy rocks , sometimes in fields of the brightest verdure , sometimes over burning sands , tottering on the ridge of some huge precipice , while the angry waters waved in the abyss below . 
Often the circumstances were so strong , that the bounds of fancy contained them no longer , and , hastily awaking , scarcely could she assure herself that Zofloya stood not at the side of her bed ! 
At one time the delusion was so strong , that she even fancied , after gazing for a minute at least , that he was a few paces from her bed , and that she saw him turn , and walk slow and majestically towards the door . 
At this , being no longer able to resist , she started up , and called him by his name ; but as she did so , he seemed to vanish through the door , which still remained shut . 
Surprised , she passed her hand over her eyes , and looked round the chamber ; all was lonely , she beheld no further traces of his figure , and , difficult as was the persuasion , she endeavoured to believe the whole a delusive dream . 
At length , she laid down , and closed her eyes again ; the weariness of sleep oppressed her to such a degree as to deprive her wholly of motion , but , notwithstanding this , her eyes half opened involuntarily . 
A grey silvery mist filled the chamber shedding a sort of twilight ; the curtains at the foot of her bed opened wide , and in the same spot again stood the figure of Zofloya ! 
On his bare bosom appeared large marks of livid blue , and his eyes stretched wide , gazed mournfully upon the oppressed Victoria . 
In his other hand , the Moor held , by her beautiful and flaxen tresses , the orphan Lilla ; her thin and spectral form seemed strayed in transparent shade , her lovely head drooped , and on one side of it was seen a deep wound , from which the blood had streamed adown her aerial robes . 
While still incapable of volition , Victoria gazed , Berenza and Lilla vanished back , and she beheld instead , her own likeness and that of Henriquez stand on either side of the Moor . 
She seemed to stretch forth her arms , into which Henriquez appeared impelled , but hastily retreating , she saw that his bosom was disfigured by a dreadful wound . 
Suddenly , Berenza and Lilla again drew nigh ; resplendent wings , which dazzled her eyes , came from the shoulders of Lilla ; with a seraphic smile she extended her hands to Berenza and Henriquez , and rising with them from the ground , Victoria beheld them no longer ; her heart beat violently , her brain throbbed , and , essaying to rise , she found herself no longer incapable of motion . 
Victoria having passed a night of restlessness and agitation , fell into a slumber towards morning , from which she did not awaken till late in the afternoon . 
When she entered the saloon to join the family at dinner , her eyes irresistibly fixed upon the figure of Zofloya , who flew with alacrity to procure her a seat ; during dinner she was silent and abstracted , and her regard continued involuntarily to turn towards him . 
In one of those hasty glances which pride would alone permit her to steal , it occurred to her that the figure of the Moor possessed a grace and majesty which she had never before remarked ; his face too seemed animated with charms till now unnoticed , and his very dress to have acquired a more splendid , tasteful , and elegant appearance . 
But still , to the present period , all this had been unnoticed by Victoria : the oftener she looked towards him , the more her astonishment increased that it should have been so , and she could not help thinking that Zofloya , before his sudden disappearance , and Zofloya , since his return , were widely different of each other . 
His place was near the chair of Henriquez , yet was he assiduous in attending to her : in every motion he displayed some new grace , and in the eyes of the vain Victoria his beauty increased every moment . 
said Victoria , mentally ; but the sounds returned not -- `` Ah , it was some mockery , '' she pursued , while a deep sigh burst from her guilty bosom ! 
She drew her hand mechanically across her eyes for a moment , and as she removed it , she beheld Zofloya standing , though at a respectful distance , before her . 
Surprise , accompanied by an emotion of anger , lightened through her mind , that an inferior should thus presume to intrude upon her retirement : this latter sentiment , however , faded in an instant before the majestic presence of the Moor ; she looked upon him with an anxious air , but did not speak , and observed that in his hand he carried a bouquet of roses . 
So saying , he attempted to scatter them before her . 
cried Victoria , while her eyes wandered with admiration over the beauty of his form , `` no -- you shall not strew them at my feet ; give them to me , and let me place them in my bosom . '' 
He took the choicest rose from the bouquet , and strewed the remainder at the feet of Victoria : then , extending his hand , he presented to her the rose which he had selected . 
Victoria stretched forth her hand to receive it ; when , as she did so , a thorn ran deep into one of her fingers , and the blood issued in a large drop . 
Victoria felt too surprised -- almost gratified to repulse him , and the Moor continued , unchecked , to press the blood from her finger , and to absorb it with the linen , as it flowed . 
Then seeming suddenly to recollect himself , he appeared struck with confusion at his own audacity : he dared not raise his eyes to Victoria ; and a dark-red blush animated with lurid colour his expressive countenance . 
Victoria , feeling irresistibly impelled , laid her hand upon his shoulder , and in gentle voice said , `` Rise , Zofloya , and be not ashamed , for you have not done aught amiss . '' 
I rise then with confidence ; '' and , rising as he spoke , he humbly retreated a few paces from her . 
`` But , why , Zofloya , '' inquired Victoria , with a smile , `` have you deemed that piece of linen worthy preservation ? '' 
answered the Moor , raising his fine eyes to her countenance , and crossing his arms upon his bosom ; `` it is of more worth to me than language can describe ; it is of equal value to me with yourself , for it is a part of you -- your precious blood ! 
The vanity of Victoria was flattered : in no guise did she disdain flattery ; but was astonished at herself , however , that with such disparity of situation , it should be sweet to her . 
She desired to banish all hostile reflection ; and , gazing upon the attractive Moor , she saw such unconquerable fascination , that her eyes sought the ground , as fearful to express the conscious emotion of her bosom . 
`` Wherefore , Zofloya , '' she involuntarily said in a tremulous voice , `` do you remain at such a distance ? '' 
The Moor drew nigh ; but , as Victoria still remained in a recumbent attitude , he seated himself upon the earth , at her feet . 
An oppressive gloom now took possession of the mind of Victoria ; a weight of misery seemed pressing on her heart , and , covering her face with her hands , she heaved a deep sigh . 
There was little in the words of Zofloya to excite hope in the bosom of Victoria ; yet enlivening hope shot through her bosom , and she half rose from her reclining attitude . 
`` Zofloya , '' she said , in a doubting accent , finding that he did not proceed , `` what hope could you offer me ? '' 
She started wildly from her seat -- `` Moor ! '' 
she exclaimed , `` your words are big with meaning ; they contain more than meets the ear ! 
Zofloya rose from the ground : he presumed to take the hand of Victoria , and led her again to her seat ; in a moment she was calm . 
The secret of Victoria hovered on her lips ; hitherto it had remained unknown to mortal soul ; in the gloomy solitude of her own perturbed bosom , had she till now preserved it , where , like a poisonous worm , it had continued to corrode . 
She was now on the point of betraying her inmost thoughts , her dearest wishes , her dark repinings , and hopeless desires ; of betraying them , too , to an inferior and an infidel ! 
The idea was scarcely endurable , and she scorned it ; but , in the next instant , she cast her eyes upon the noble presence of the Moor : he appeared not only the superior of his race , but of a superior order of beings . 
Her struggles died away , and , in hurried accents , she involuntarily exclaimed -- `` Oh , Henriquez ! 
cried Victoria , with momentary indignation . 
she repeated with surprise ; for conscience whispered that long since had fled . 
eagerly exclaimed Victoria . 
I see them too -- the hated Berenza , '' she said ; while stronger loathing against him took possession of her heart . 
Victoria continued , with indescribable sensations , to gaze after his graceful figure , as it disappeared from her view ; then reluctantly leaving the arbour , she joined the Conte and Henriquez . 
With tremulous delight , and with feelings of diminished pain , she stole frequent glances at the unconscious possessor of her soul : he observed her not ; for the blooming Lilla was hastening towards them . 
In an instant he quitted the side of Victoria , and flew towards her : at this sight hate kindled fiercer than ever in the bosom of Victoria ; she regarded the lovely orphan with the eyes of a basilisk , and wished that , like them , they possessed the power to destroy . 
Scarcely , on the following evening , had the artificial shades of twilight increased the gigantic outlines of the farseen mountains , ere Victoria hastened to the spot where the Moor , Zofloya , had said he would await her . 
Victoria obeyed ; the manner of Zofloya was such as inspired involuntary awe : he took his station beside her . 
The soul of Victoria was a stranger to fear , yet uncommon sensations filled her bosom , as she observed her proximity to the Moor . 
Yet his from and attitude , as he sat beside her , was majestic , and solemnly beautiful -- not the beauty which may be freely admired , but acknowledged with sensations awful and indescribable . 
`` Signora , '' he began , in an harmonious voice , while every uneasy feeling of Victoria 's bosom vanished as he spoke -- `` I am not to learn that dreadful oppression of soul weighs you to the earth ; but the cause of your unhappiness I desire to hear from your own lips , more explicitly than you have yet acknowledged it . 
Think not , beautiful Victoria , that , in the spirit of idle curiosity merely , I would dive into the recesses of your bosom ; no , it is from a hope I entertain , that I possess a power equal , almost to my wishes , of alleviating the sorrows you endure . 
Victoria hesitated -- the Moor proceeded : `` Does the Signora believe , then , that the Moor Zofloya hath a heart dark as his countenance ? 
Scarce had Zofloya opened his lips , ere uneasiness , as we have said , vanished from the mind of Victoria . 
As he proceeded , the most agreeable sensations fluttered through her frame , and in her brain floated fascinating visions of future bliss , that passed too rapidly to be identified . 
Scarce had his silver tones sunk on her ear in thrilling cadence , than she felt even eager to express to the Moor her inmost thoughts : excessive , yet confused pleasure , filled her heart -- she looked upon his still discernible , though darkened figure ; upon his countenance , where , like two diamonds , revealed by the force of their own casual rays , his ; eyes emitted sparks of lambent flame . 
-- Involuntarily softened towards him , she said -- `` Whether or not thou canst assist me , Zofloya , is unknown to me ; but , feeling strongly impelled to reveal to thee every movement of my soul -- the fatal , I almost fear , the remediless cause of my misery , I hasten to acknowledge to thee all . 
She leaned her head upon her hand , and paused ; then quickly resuming : `` I have now told thee of the agony which racks my breast ; I have even revealed my wishes -- my despair . 
`` This heart knows not to shrink , '' she answered , forcibly striking her bosom , while her eyes flashed fire ; `` and in its purpose would persevere , even to destruction ! '' 
`` Not so , beautiful Victoria . '' 
`` Your words are ambiguous , Zofloya ; deign to be explicit , '' said Victoria hastily . 
exclaimed Victoria , half frantic with joy at the meaning contained in his words ; and , breathless with contending emotions of hope and doubt , seizing his hand , she pressed it to her bosom . 
Victoria 's only answer was an expressive smile and gesture . 
impatiently cried Victoria , `` this is irrelavent . '' 
`` Victoria started ; but the Moor , appearing not to notice it , proceeded : `` Upon these I tried , alternately , my speedy and lingering poisons . 
Victoria was for a moment staggered at this unexpected question , which again the Moor seeming not to observe , took from his pocket a small gold box , which opening , Victoria perceived to contain several divisions ; from one of these he drew a little folded paper , and thus proceeded : `` This paper contains one of the most subtile and delicate poisons that ever , by the hand of art , could be composed . 
Victoria stretched forth her hand , and took the paper -- for a moment she was silent , and then said -- `` This , then , is for Berenza . '' 
`` It is not that I want resolution , '' returned Victoria , somewhat piqued . 
and ashamed , confused at what she deemed her cowardice , she stopped -- `` It is not that you hesitate , '' in an accent half serious , half disdainful , returned the Moor ; `` and why should you hesitate ? 
Surely the conscience of Victoria is not subjugated to a confessor ? 
Zofloya paused -- the cool deliberateness of his manner , in expressing his sentlments , induced Victoria to believe that they were the result of conviction , deduced from accurate reflection , and the having given to the subject the rational consideration of a towering and superior mind , rather than the cruel or forced constructions of the moment . 
Under this impression , she could not avoid saying -- `` Zofloya , you possess strong powers of reflection , and you are eloquent . '' 
Pride filled the heart of Victoria , and she smiled . 
Victoria , beautiful Victoria ! 
Indescribable leasure dilated the bosom of Victoria , as she listened to the honied accents of the delicate Moor . 
`` The Conte , at a certain hour of the day , drinks lemonade , '' observed Victoria , which I was once in the habit of administering to him ; he used to say it tasted sweeter from my hand . '' 
So saying , Zofloya gently taking Victoria by the arm , led her , with a kind of respectful freedom , from the spot . 
With unshrinking soul , and eye unabashed by the consciousness of guilt Victoria joined at supper the innocent family circle . 
The high blush of animation flushed her dark cheek with more than usual fire ; her eyes sparkled , but it was with a fiend-like exultation , and her nerves seemed new strung for the execution of her dreadful purpose . 
Berenza rejoiced at her appearance , and little surmising the cause , approached , in the fulness of his heart , to embrace her ; she returned it impatiently , and pushing him from her , surveyed him , with a kind of half smile , from head to foot . 
But it was not so ; Victoria hastily embraced him , from the cruel reflection that he would not long have the power of soliciting these marks of an affection that she felt not , nor she the hated task of granting them : -- in pushing him from her , she but yielded to an overpowering impulse of the hatred which possessed her bosom ; while gazing on him with a smile , she consoled herself with the thought -- how soon he would cease to be ! 
At supper she could not forbear sometimes casting her ardent eyes upon Henriquez , anticipating future delight ; while his were fixed as usual upon the blooming fairy , Lilla . 
But her Victoria now regarded only with contempt , from the suggestion that she was an atom too easily crushed to cause a moment 's painful thought . 
Yet she failed not to pay attention to all ; and the vivacity of her manner , the brilliancy of her wit , attracted , as it was wont to do , the pleased admiration of all towards her . 
Every one obeyed , and drank to the happiness of her , who , in that moment , meditated their destruction . 
`` And now , '' she cried , playfully , `` it is my turn ; and taking two goblets off the table , she flew to a recess at the end of the saloon , where wines and ices were set out upon a small marble table ; filling them to the brim with Vino Greco , and infusing into the glass that had been hers a small quantity of the poison , -LRB- which instantly incorporated itself with the wine , and disappeared , -RRB- she returned to the supper table with well-dissembled innocent sportiveness , and exclaimed -- `` Fill your glasses all round . '' 
`` Here , Berenza , is my glass , '' she cried ; `` drink from it as I will drink from yours -- To the speedy fulfilment of our wishes ! '' 
The fatal toast was drunk , and `` To the speedy fulfilment of our wishes , '' echoed round the table , while the devoted Berenza , whose only wish was the gratification of Victoria , drank eagerly to promote it the first draught of death ! 
and looking tenderly upon her , exclaimed , `` To the speedy fulfilment of thy wishes , '' thus emphatically calling on his own destruction . 
Victoria smiling , fixed her eyes upon him -- in a few moments she imagined he turned pale : he passed his hand hastily across his eyes , as if sensible of a slight sudden pain in his head ; she became apprehensive she had given him more than was prudent for a first dose , and that she would be betrayed : presently , however , her fears subsided , the colour returned to the cheeks of Berenza , and the pain passed away . 
From this eventful period , Victoria omitted no opportunity of administering insidious death to the unsuspicious Berenza . 
Sometimes , with the point of a small fruit knife , which she retained about her for the purpose , she introduced the baleful poison within the fruit , while offering it to him on the point of her knife ; thus remorselessly rendering him to himself the dealer of his own death . 
At the expiration of eight or ten days , a change , scarcely marked by others , but fully perceived by Victoria , became apparent in the hapless Berenza ; the blood of his cheeks , which , on first taking the poison , vanished back for a few moments , seemed , as by repeated checks , to have become more languid in its circulation , and tinged them no longer , as formerly , with the vermilion hue of health . 
Satisfied with these appearances , on the evening of the tenth day , for the eagerness of Victoria -LRB- now that she had commenced her dreadful plan -RRB- had not suffered an atom of the poison to remain beyond , she sought , as previously agreed , Zofloya , in the appointed spot : when she arrived , she perceived him not ; already her dark mind became suspicious of the delay ; -- `` Zofloya ! 
`` Well , beautiful Victoria , '' he said , `` behold me here ; and suffer me now to ask , does hope begin to cheer your long-benighted bosom ? '' 
`` Yes , '' answered Victoria , `` I entertain hope , the fond hope , Zofloya , that I shall have good cause to mark the day , when , irresistibly impelled by the kind sympathy of thy manner , I confided to thee the cause of my sorrows . '' 
And I too , Signora , shall have proud cause to mark that day ; for it gave to the unworthy slave , Zofloya , the most beautiful and enterprising of her sex . '' 
`` It gave thee my friendship , indeed , Zofloya , '' said Victoria , slightly surprised ; `` it gave thee my gratitude , not myself ; for I am irrevocably , as thou knowest , devoted to another . '' 
`` Be not offended , beautiful Victoria , nor let us waste the precious moments in defining terms ; for the Signor Henriquez , to whom I am obedient for your sweet sake alone , requires my presence : were it not for you , Zofloya would no longer appear in a character unfitting his state , the character of a menial . '' 
`` Were you otherwise than you are , fair Victoria , I should not now be here . '' 
`` You will , you do repay me , kind Signora ; but time wastes : let me now give what you require , the second powder , for -- '' He concluded his meaning with a smile ; then taking the box from his pocket , he drew forth a second powder , but from a different division , and presenting it to Victoria , he said -- `` This powderis a degree more powerful than the last ; you will administer it the same , and the effects will be proportionably increased . 
The Moor paused ; but Victoria appearing violently agitated , as if overcome by some sudden thought or recollection , remained silent . 
Her uneasiness was not unobserved by Zofloya ; but he only gazed upon her , without inquiring the cause , leaving it to herself to reveal the workings of her mind . 
At length , fixing her eyes upon his countenance , she said in a hurried voice -- `` Zofloya , Venice will never do for the seat of action ; it would be folly , it would be madness to make the attempt . 
she said , with an embarrassed air , `` all Italy is equally dangerous . '' 
Zofloya made an impatient gesture ; as if to reprove the hesitation of Victoria ; after a moment , she resumed -- `` I have heard Berenza speak of Torre Alto ; it is the name of a castle appertaining to him , which is situated among the Appennines . '' 
Abruptly then Zofloya turned away , and quitted the presence of Victoria , who took her steps , musingly , towards the house . 
At supper , soon as with wine and conversation the spirits of Berenza became joyous and elevated , she artfully seized an opportunity of introducing the subject nearest her heart ; she spoke of Torre Alto , and expressed a desire to visit its sublime solitudes , professing herself to be still further influenced from the flattering presumption , -LRB- looking tenderly at Berenza , as she made the assertion -RRB- , that change of atmosphere and a more elevated situation might be a means of bracing his nerves , and restoring him to his pristine health . 
Whatever the tender and unsuspicious Berenza believed , it was enough for him that Victoria expressed the wish , for him unhesitatingly to comply with it , while the welcome , but fallacious hope pressed upon his heart , that devoted to love and him , and desirous to prove to him that she was so , she abandoned , without regret , the vain pleasures and amusements of the voluptuous city , for a solitude no longer unpleasing to her . 
Fearful even that her purpose might change , he expatiated on the beauty , the situation of his castella ; and , desirous to offer every possible allurement to her perseverance , he entreated that Henriquez , his fair mistress , and her ancient protectress , would be of the intended party . 
Victoria , perceiving in the hapless Berenza such unhoped for eagerness in coincidence with her plan , artfully forbore to press the subject further ; but her alarm being awakened , lest the relation of Lilla should object to the journey , and thereby -LRB- an idea that was not endurable -RRB- detain Henriquez in Venice , she exerted the fascinations of her kindness towards her , and observed with seeming pleasure , as if the point of her acquiescence had been settled , what infinite benefit would , in all probability , result to her own health , in consequence of the salubrious change . 
The poor old Signora did not exactly think so , but it was enough that Victoria condescended to say it , and to direct towards her unusual attention , for her not to hesitate . 
Besides , as self-love is no less inherent in age than youth , she felt no little gratification in being deemed of sufficient consequence for solicitation . 
Victoria , seated by the side of Berenza , administered to him the tenderest , the most deceitful attentions ; the fair and beautiful Lilla , with her long flaxen tresses almost veiling her fairy form , seated by the side of Henriquez , caught the soft breathings of his love , and , without looking upon him , felt the warm glances of his eyes , which thrilled with voluptuous tenderness her innocent soul . 
Never was fatal journey performed under fairer auspices , never with fonder triumph did the bridegroom conduct his long loved mistress to the altar , than the poor Berenza conducted to his solitude , among mountains , the faithless Victoria . 
He saw no solitude when she was by ; to him she was the peopled world of pleasure , and in the fulness of his exhilarated heart , he blest the moment which , by visiting him with sickness , restored him , as he thought , the affections of a wife he had feared was lost to him . 
To be brief -- their journey concluded , and arrived at Torre Alto , Victoria observed herself , with a gloomy and secret delight , enclosed within the profoundest solitudes , for no town , no hamlet was even near the Castella of Berenza , which was situated in a deep valley , on the borders of a forest . 
`` Here , then , '' said Victoria , as on the morning after her arrival she gazed from her chamber window upon the beautifully terrific scenery , and the immeasurable waste of endless solitude which composed it -- `` Here , then , without danger , may I pursue the path leading to the summit of my wishes ; no prying eye can pierce through , here , the secret movements which , to compass my soul 's desire , may be requisite . 
A faint blush suffused the guilt-bronzed cheek of Victoria , as in a low voice she merely replied , `` I was contemplating the grandeur of the surrounding scenery , my Lord . '' 
`` And do you know , beloved Victoria , '' replied Berenza , `` that I fancy my health already improved from the effects of our journey , this beautiful seclusion , and these pure airs . '' 
Victoria felt that this idea of Berenza 's was indeed mere fancy , for well she knew that , on the preceding evening , unrestrained by his fatigue , the circumstances of the moment , or the pallid cheek of Berenza , she had administered to him his death-dealing draught . 
The bare assertion , however , that he did not feel ill , disturbed her for the moment , and she secretly resolved , that in the next draught she would mingle more of the poison . 
For the present , however , she accompanied him from the window , and joined the party already assembled at breakfast . 
Persevering with relentless barbarity , ere the ten days were concluded , Victoria had administered to the Conte the last atom of the poison ; she therefore , as evening came on , wandered forth , in hopes of encountering the Moor , with whom , since her arrival at Torre Alto , she had scarcely found an opportunity of conversing . 
She took her way across the almost pathless forest ; for the deeper and more gloomy the solitude , the more probable she thought it , that Zofloya would choose it for his haunt . 
Accordingly , she had not proceeded far , ere , as if informed by sympathetic influence of her wishes , she beheld the stately Moor issuing from a break among the trees , directly across her path . 
She called to him aloud ; when , slightly bowing , he arrested his steps till she came up with him . 
Impatience to begin on subjects more important , prevented her from remarking the cool and haughty conduct of Zofloya , who , instead of proceeding rapidly to meet her , had contented himself with awaiting her arrival at the spot where he stood . 
`` Zofloya , '' she said , as she took his arm , and walked rapidly onwards , `` can you not at once deliver me from the tortures I endure ? 
Then giving a small paper into the hands of Victoria , with distant air he bowed his head , and , striking immediately into the deep recesses of the wood , became lost to her view . 
`` Singular being , '' thought Victoria , as with slow and meditating steps she retook her path towards the castella , `` how happens it , that with a thousand questions to ask him , I find time to ask him nothing ? 
Thus reflecting , she increased her pace , for the darkest shadows of evening were beginning to fall . 
As she approached the castle , she beheld coming , as if to seek her the youthful Henriquez , unconscious object of the devouring flame that consumed her . 
At sight of him , her heart throbbed and various emotions filled her breast . 
`` A task , '' said Victoria , in a reproachful accent , `` which you would rather have been spared . '' 
`` To wish for me , was indeed an insignificant wish , '' gloomily observed Victoria . 
As he spoke , the foot of Victoria striking against a point of projecting stone , she stumbled ; Henriquez instinctively caught her arm . 
Victoria snatched it away resentfully , and , while tears almost started to her eyes , she said -- `` No matter , Signor Henriquez , no matter to you if I fall . '' 
`` You know , you know you hate , '' in an agitated voice , cried Victoria , thrown entirely off her guard . 
Henriquez looked towards her with surprise , and , at a loss what to reply , bowed with an embarrassed air . 
Victoria remained silent for a few moments , and then in a calmer voice resumed -- `` Had the Conte desired you to seek Lilla , with what alacrity would you have obeyed . '' 
Victoria scowled , with mingled rage and jealousy , upon Henriquez ; but he looked not towards her , and if he had , the hour had been almost too dark for him to distinguish the expression of her countenance , which was so terrible , it might almost have been felt by inspiration . 
By degrees , however , she quelled the violence of her sensations , and , in a smothered voice , observed -- `` Henriquez , you love Lilla . '' 
muttered Victoria , and involuntarily grasped Henriquez by the arm . 
`` No , no , no ; but I -- I was almost on the point of falling again , '' she answered , gasping for breath ; and in that instant she wavered , whether the powder she retained in her bosom should not be destined to Lilla rather then Berenza . 
Henriquez flew instantly to meet her , Victoria slowly followed , and altogether entered the castle , the tender Lilla with her right hand holding one of Victoria 's , and passing the left round her waist . 
Proceeding to the room where Berenza awaited them , they found him stretched at length upon a sopha , which being of crimson colour , added a more deadly tinge to the paleness of his complexion ; as soon as he beheld Victoria , he stretched forth his hand to her , and exclaimed -- `` Oh , my love , whither have you been ? 
`` I have been walking in the forest , my love , '' replied Victoria , and I went further then I intended ; but let me hasten to prepare your drink . '' 
So saying , she quitted the room , and in a few moments returned , with a glass of lemonade , into which she had already infused a sufficient quantity of poison . 
Complaining of faintish sickness , he motioned for Victoria to sit beside him ; and , leaning his head upon her faithless bosom , seemed presently overcome by a profound sleep . 
Soon , however , it became disturbed and interrupted by convulsive catchings ; that innocent breath , which issued from his lips , and passed over the face of Victoria , spoke no reproach to her remorseless bosom . 
Again the heart of Victoria yielded to selfish terror , lest she had administered too powerful a dose of the poison . 
Berenza ; however , was not awake , though his eyes remained half open ; she took his burning hand , and , actuated by her fears , strongly pressed it ; the action recalled in a moment the fleeting senses of Berenza ; he started and opened his eyes , from which the film vanished ; then perceiving the false Victoria bending over him , the complaint he was about to utter died upon his lips , and fearful of giving uneasiness to her , who was deliberately consuming his life , he even repressed the look of anguish , straining it into a tender smile , and smothered the sigh of agony which was bursting from his bosom . 
`` Dear Berenza , you are ill , '' cried Victoria , gazing with dissembled fondness in his face . 
So saying , he rose , endeavouring to conceal the access of weakness , of which he became sensible , from the eyes of every one , but more particularly from those of Victoria ; and requesting they might repair to the supper room , he was that night permitted , not from her compassion , but her base policy , to drink his wine unmingled with the baleful poison . 
The allotted week had not expired , ere change sufficient was visible in the unfortunate Berenza , to satisfy even the soul of Victoria , thirsting as it was for his innocent blood . 
This Victoria observing , and instantly concluding that wine , while it exhilarated him for the moment , must still tend to parch up the vital heat , she induced him to drink plentifully of it , thereby causing it to answer the double purpose , of blinding him to his actual danger , and hastening his death . 
His cough had now become more serious , exercise was fatiguing to him , and all society but that of Victoria irksome ; thus was he completely in her power , but nevertheless she durst not go beyond the directions of Zofloya . 
From this circumstance he could not believe himself in actual danger , but rather coincided with the pretended hope of Victoria , that time , and a naturally robust constitution , would triumph over a disorder that he firmly attributed -LRB- as Victoria had suggested -RRB- to some neglected and unnoticed cold . 
The wilds of the Appennines seldom tempted him to roam : with the inhabitants of a few gloomy castellas , scattered here and there , at immense distances from his own , he never associated ; and Victoria affirmed , in order to keep him more secure , and avoid the remotest risk of drawing attention towards them , that quiet and rest were absolutely indispensable to his recovery . 
In vain did Henriquez entreat of his infatuated brother to receive advice , to explain his sensations , only to hear the opinion of a physician : no , he steadily refused ; Victoria was all-sufficient , and on her tender care would he alone depend . 
The poison , however , being now exhausted , and the week elapsed , Victoria finding that the miserable Berenza was not only yet in existence , but that for the two last days he had not appeared more evidently reduced than he had for some time past , became absolutely impatient to a degree of savageness , and cursed the feeble life that still struggled to retain possession of its worn-out tenement ; deeming it therefore requisite to seek Zofloya , she again repaired to that part of the forest where she had last encountered him . 
This time the Moor seemed awaiting her , and hastening towards her , as she approached , he said -- `` You are impatient , Signora , at the strength of the Conte 's constitution ; is it not so ? 
`` Yet does he not appear worse this evening than he did eight days ago , '' murmuringly observed Victoria . 
The Moor started back , and looked scowlingly upon Victoria ; never before had she beheld him look so terrible : in an instant her proud rage subsided , her eyes were cast on the earth , and she trembled at what she had suffered to escape her lips . 
Yes , Victoria , who never before trembled in the presence of mortal being , who did not tremble to agonise and insult a father , to revile a mother , and consign a husband to the grave , trembled now , in the presence of Zofloya . 
`` Beautiful Victoria ! 
`` Rise , gentle Moor , and accept my hand , '' cried the vain and flattered Victoria ; `` never shall I have power to recompense you . '' 
`` I know of no subject , '' said Victoria , musingly . 
`` True , '' replied Victoria ; `` she would answer excellently for an experiment . '' 
`` But should any marks of the poison become perceptible after her death , '' interupted the selfish Victoria . 
`` They will be naturally attributed to the mode of her death ; no suspicion , rest assured , shall be excited -- trust to me , beautiful Victoria . 
The Moor gave into her hand a small paper containing the poison , and the following morning was agreed on for the trial of its efficacy . 
On the following morning Victoria , having watched her opportunity , entered a little apartment where the aged and inoffensive Signora was tranquilly sitting by a window , inhaling , through the bars of a blind , the fresh breeze from the mountains . 
Solitary , and forsaken by the younger branches of the family , even by the gentle Lilla , who had been drawn away by Henriquez , she smiled with pleasure at the sight of Victoria , who , more rarely than any one , deigned to notice her . 
`` Lean upon me , good Signora , '' said Victoria , `` and let me assist you . '' 
Here Victoria , though she cursed and dreaded the delay , was under the necessity of permitting her for a few moments to rest upon her arm . 
But her evil genius assisted her evil intent ; no one appeared in view , and the fresh air having a little restored the imbecile powers of her unsuspecting companion , she prevailed upon her to proceed , and succeeded at length in luring her , by the unusual honor of her attention , to a more gloomy part of the forest , where a rocky acclivity on one side , offered at its base a rugged and projecting seat . 
Here Victoria , affecting to have selected this spot for its convenient attributes in shading them at once from the sun and the wind , and likewise affording them a seat , entreated the Signora to rest , while , with treacherous kindness , she assisted her to sit . 
Appearing then infinitely grieved at her evident weariness , though the poor Signora , from complaisance and gratitude , forbore complaint , she observed to her , `` You are indeed fatigued , Signora ; I apprehend the exertion has been too much for you ; allow me to return to the castle and procure you some refreshment -- though , generally , the Moor Zofloya brings me about this hour sherbet or lemonade . '' 
At that moment Victoria beheld among the trees the emerald-covered turban of Zofloya , glittering to the sun-beam ; her heart leaped , and she rose to receive from him the glasses of lemonade , which he carried in a silver salver . 
Punctual in taking for herself that which the Moor held towards her , she presented the other to the unconscious Signora , who received it with palsied hand , but with a thankful smile and a dim eye that looked on her with gratitude . 
Scarcely , however , had she taken off the fatal draught , ere , overcome by dreadful sickness , she fell headlong from her seat : she essayed to speak , her sunken eyes rolled dreadfully , and , with violent convulsions , she uttered , `` I am -- I am poisoned ! '' 
`` She will not die , '' muttered Victoria , in a low voice , to the Moor . 
Zofloya replied not , but , stooping over the struggling unfortunate , he compressed her withered throat with his dark hand , and the sounds , half-formed , rattled within it . 
Victoria understood the movement ; neither shocked nor alarmed at the frightful outrage committed , she ran from the recess , and , as she gained the castle , called loudly for help . 
Henriquez passed his arm round her waist , and forced her from the spot , while Victoria gazed upon them as they passed with eyes of malignant rage . 
Every one believed that the old Signora had expired suddenly in a fit ; some said the air had taken too powerful an effect on her debilitated frame ; some , that she had been seized with sudden convulsion ; while even the wisest attributed the event to the visitation of Providence , and the infirmity of age , that could no longer support the burden of existence . 
None surmised the real cause : at the dreadful scene of her death there were no witnesses but its cruel perpetrators ; in the gloomy solitariness of mutual guilt , the deed was hatched and done . 
A short time only had elapsed since the dreadful catastrophe of the poor Signora , during which Victoria had continued , though with pining reluctance , the use of the slow poison -LRB- the Moor Zofloya having peremptorily refused to administer as yet the final dose -RRB- , when , frantic with protracted hope , and increasing passion , she sought again the dark abettor of her crimes . 
It was on an evening , when no appointment existed between them , at an hour too much earlier than she had yet been accustomed to seek the Moor ; but the demons of evil raged with such fury in her bosom , that every consideration was lost in their overpowering influence . 
The wretched Berenza still lived an obstacle to her wishes , and death , death alone , could satisfy her thirsting soul . 
She bent her steps towards the thickest of the forest ; where the gloomy cypress , tall pine , and lofty poplar , mingled in solemn umbrage . 
Victoria stopped for a moment , and gazed around ; the wild gloom seemed to suit the dark and ferocious passions of her soul . 
She gave way to the chain of thought that came pressing on her mind , her heart was anarchy and lust of crime , and she regretted that she had suffered till now , the existence of aught between her and her desired happiness . 
`` By the dagger 's aid , '' thought she , `` I could have accomplished all ere now . 
Thus buoying herself up to frenzy , she admitted no reflection of danger that was attendant on the open commission of crime ; her reason was blinded by the blandishments of guilt , and the despotic sway of evil that triumphed in her heart . 
Zofloya , Zofloya , '' she exclaimed , with wild impatience , `` why art thou not here . 
As she concluded these words , she struck her forehead violently with her hand , and threw herself with her face upon the earth . 
Of a sudden the sweetest sounds stole upon her ear ; they were like the tremulous vibration of a double-toned flute , sounding as it were from a distance ; its lovely melody by turns softened and agitated her ; it seemed not the solemn notes of the organ from the neighbouring convent ; no , it was unlike mortal harmony ; besides , the convent was on the other side of the castle , situated half way down a mighty rock , and she had wandered too far to catch the smallest note of its deep sounding music , even had the wind set towards the castle . 
Still the soft tones continued , and kept her on the rack between pain and pleasure ; at one moment it brought before her view the idolized form of Henriquez , in all the grace of his youthful beauty , disposing her to love , and the most impetuous passion ; the next , its melancholy cadence , suggested to her sickening soul , that him so franticly adored might never be hers ; and that the barriers existing between them could never be overcome . 
If the turbulent emotions of her mind abated , they gave place to others no less dangerous -- still she listened with resistless attention ; at length a slight pause occurred . 
`` Sweet aërial sounds , '' she cried , `` yet painful are the impressions I receive from you , distracting rather than soothing my troubled soul ! 
most beautiful Signora , '' said a voice which rivalled indeed the sweetness of the music ; and Victoria beheld at her side the stately Moor . 
`` Astonishing being , '' she exclaimed , `` I heard you not indeed ; whence came you ? '' 
`` I am here , Victoria ; will not that suffice ? '' 
`` By sympathy , lovely Victoria ; your very thoughts have power to attract me . 
Zofloya smiled , and regarded her with a piercing eye -- `` I can read them now , beautiful Victoria ! 
Victoria sighed deeply , and concurring in the justice of the observation , inquired no further . 
The wily Moor had turned her attention from his mysterious insinuations to her own conscious feelings ; these alone regained full possession of her , and every thing else appeared trivial in her view . 
she exclaimed , `` truly dost thou divine ; my soul is indeed disturbed , and unless thou wilt assist me , I am lost . '' 
`` Despair not , '' said the Moor , casting himself beside her , as her figure , half risen from the earth , was supported by her elbow , and her head reclined upon her hand -- `` Despair not , '' he repeated , and unrepulsed took the hand which hung down ; `` say but how Zofloya can serve his lovely mistress , and let him prove to her his zeal . '' 
thou knowest , thou knowest , Zofloya , '' she cried impatiently , when looking upon the serious , yet expressive countenance of the Moor , she more calmly proceeded : `` I have hitherto , Zofloya , yielded to thy counsel ; I may say , to thy will , for thou wouldst not grant me that which ere now would have set me free . 
She paused , and looking on the Moor , beheld his eyes sparkling with such a scintillating brilliancy as it were , that she was compelled to withdraw her gaze , though impatiently she awaited his reply . 
`` Victoria , '' said he , at length , in dulcet accents , while the wild emotions of Victoria 's bosom began already to subside , `` I would not have thee think that in the waywardness of an unkind spirit , I refused thee thy wish ; be assured thy present safety , and the ultimate attainment of thy hopes , alone actuated me . 
Now will I be sworn that success , immediate success , shall attend our attempt , and that Berenza shall die without power to express a word ; depend on me then , lovely Victoria ; place implicit confidence in Zofloya . '' 
`` Ah , if you are indeed anxious to serve me , Zofloya , '' cried Victoria , with a smile that evidenced the joy imparted by the last words of the Moor , `` why did you not seek me at once , and put the speediest possible end to my protracted misery ? '' 
-- Besides , '' added he , `` I am almost convinced , that it would be as well even yet to delay for a time -- '' `` Oh , talk not to me so , '' interrupted Victoria , `` wherefore , wherefore delay ? '' 
`` Oh , you are bent upon destroying me , Zofloya ; '' when perceiving a gathering frown upon the countenance of the Moor , she hastily added -- `` Oh , frown not so terribly , Zofloya , but assist me at once ; thereby laying claim to my eternal gratitude , and enhancing the benefit you confer . '' 
cried Victoria , in an exulting voice . 
Moor , I thank thee , '' exclaimed Victoria , seizing in her joy his hand , and pressing it to her bosom . 
The Moor turned upon her his resplendent eyes -- `` Is not that heart mine , Victoria ? '' 
`` It is indeed , gratefully bound to you , Zofloya , '' she answered , looking upon him with a disconcerted air . 
`` I say it is mine , Victoria , '' returned he ; `` But , '' he added smilingly , `` fear not , for I am not jealous of your passion for another . '' 
Victoria felt surprise ; she lifted her eyes to the countenance of the Moor , but they fell beneath his fiery glances -- she would have spoken ; she knew not what conflicting emotions chained her tongue , she desired to reprove his boldness , but needing his assistance , she durst not -- she beheld herself in his power , and , in the abjectness of her guilt , she trembled . 
Zofloya smiled , his hand had remained on her bosom , its hard pressure seemed heavy on her heart ! 
-- - He now withdrew it , and her confused senses began to rally : she felt released , as from a grasp of iron ; again she ventured to turn her eyes towards him , his features had resumed their usual expression , animated , but serene , resembling the returning brilliant calmness of a summer sky , that had looked lurid with the threatened storm . 
In an instant his ambiguous words vanished from the mind of Victoria , or ceased to make impression ; aught was pardonable in the resistless Zofloya , and she faintly smiled . 
`` Victoria , '' he observed , `` it is yet light , the evening is mild and beautiful , the breeze from the mountains bears temptation on its wings , it promises delight to those in health , and reanimation to the feeble . 
So saying , in a moment he turned , and walked rapidly away ; soon Victoria beheld him no more ; his movement had been so precipitate , so sudden , that scarcely could she believe she had but just beheld him . 
With slow and lingering steps she prepared however to depart . 
The words of the Moor still sounded in her ears , but their import was not clear to her ; his mysterious deportment occupied her thoughts , and , though in his presence hope and pleasant feelings diffused themselves through her bosom , no sooner was he vanished than ; for the temporary calm she had experienced , accumulated horrors distracted her -- the wildest phrenzy of passion , the most ungovernable hate , and thirst , even for the blood of all who might oppose her . 
In a mind of such gloomy anarchy , was she now traversing the forest , her pace quick , and irregular ; already had she entered the path leading to the castle , when a faint and hollow voice uttered her name . 
Raising her eyes , she started on beholding before her the heart-touching semblance of what he once had been ; the dying , but unconscious Berenza , supported between Lilla and Henriquez ; his faded form was before her indeed , but she beheld him not , for her guilty eyes were directed instantly towards his blooming brother , whose sparkling eye , and health-animated form , presented too sure a striking contrast to the feeble being beside him . 
In the delusive fondness of Victoria 's eyes he still read hope ; from her well-feigned solicitude he derived consolation , and felt as though while beloved and attended by her , death could not reach him : -- her love , her tenderness , seemed to him a protecting shield , through which its arrows could not pierce . 
Each pulsation of that faintly throbbing heart beat still with unvarying love for her ; and , as he beheld her approaching , he disengaged his arm from Henriquez , and hastening towards her , even at the peril of sinking , he leaned his trembling hand upon her shoulder for support , and in an under voice he cried -- `` The hope of meeting thee , my love , hath enabled me to proceed thus far . 
inquired Victoria , leading him onwards to the very spot where the unfortunate Signora had yielded up her life ; they were then at no great distance from it , and Berenza , unable to reply , motioned that he might be supported thither . 
In a few minutes he gained the shady recess , and reposed himself upon that seat that had already been so fatal to another ; passing then his arm around Victoria , he leaned his head upon her bosom . 
`` Yes , my Victoria ; and I would I were at the castle , for I faint with thirst . '' 
`` What wouldst thou , Berenza ; I will hasten for it , '' said Victoria . 
Meantime , with quick step , Zofloya drew near ; at sight of him violent emotion seized the breast of Victoria . 
`` Give it to me , my Victoria , '' cried Berenza ; `` from thy hand would I receive it , '' and with difficulty he raised his beating head from her bosom . 
Victoria stretched forth her hand for the wine : her eyes met those of Zofloya ; they were pregnant with terrible intelligence , for they spoke that death was in the goblet which she received from his hand . 
With all her unshrinking hardihood in deeds of horror , the strange , the dreadful expression of Zofloya 's countenance shook her inmost soul : nerving her hand , however , she took , with assumed steadiness , the fatal glass , and presented it to the anxious Berenza . 
He raised it , fixing his hollow eyes upon her countenance ; and then , looking up to Heaven , as if to call down blessings on her head , he raised it to his lips and hastily drank its contents , even to the dregs ! 
He loosed the vest of the Conte , he rubbed his hands and his temples ; and , while horror assailed Henriquez , and even the guilty Victoria felt a selfish terror at the sudden accomplishment of her own wishes , he calmly , though with seeming sorrow , expressed his idea that the Conte had fainted through excessive weakness , and would probably recover if conveyed into the castle , where proper remedies could be administered . 
Henriquez , catching at the idea , hastily dispatched him , with every promise of reward , if he used expedition ; and , meantime , approaching his brother , assisted Victoria and her wily coadjutor in their pretended endeavours to restore him . 
That every effort was vain , is scarcely necessary to be said : yet great was the trepidation of Victoria , lest the reputed skill of the Monk , if it failed in counteracting the deadly effects of the poison , should at least reveal to him that poison had been resorted to . 
This idea threw her into a state of terror , that not all her dependence on Zofloya , nor even the offended glances of encouragement , which , from time to time , he cast on her , could subdue . 
Victoria bent over him with well-feigned sorrow , while Henriquez held his motionless hand . 
Suddenly , -LRB- though , at the first puncture , a single drop had refused to flow , -RRB- the blood started forth , and flew in the face of Victoria ! 
Though despairing of the smallest success , the Monk had opened a vein in the other arm of Berenza : the terrors of Victoria were renewed , but groundlessly ; no life-warm current followed the lancet 's point ; the heart was for ever motionless , and the bosom in which once it had beat high in healthful pride , inanimate and cold ; hope could no more be indulged -- for no swoon but the eternal sleep of death was discovered to have seized Berenza . 
Such a fate , so sudden , so terrible for the best of human beings , excited bitter grief in the minds of all but Victoria . 
Never , in despite of representations most delicately urged , would Berenza give ear to any suggestions of actual danger ; and for this pertinacity , Henriquez , too justly , in his mind arraigned Victoria , so tenderly beloved by the Conte ; and often had he felt surprise and indignation that she never joined with others in entreating him to alter his fallacious system , when she well knew that her word , or slightest persuasion , would have changed instantly his most obstinate resolve . 
When , at a late hour , the inmates of the mansion that so late had owned Berenza for its lord , retired to their respective apartments , more to indulge in solitude their grief for his loss , than to seek repose : it chanced that Victoria , whom no feeling , however , of regret or remorse for the cruel death inflicted by her on the most excellent of human beings , deprived of the power to sleep , awakened soon after she retired to bed from a disturbed and terrifying dream . 
Starting up in her bed , she gazed around the chamber , still trembling under its dreadful impression . 
She thought that entering the apartment where the corpse of the deceased Conte reposed , she had drawn aside the curtains of the bed , and beheld his countenance and various parts of his body discoloured and disfigured by livid marks -- evidences of the poison which had been given him ; that , in the frenzy of despair and terror , she had called upon and reproached Zofloya , who , without deigning to reply , gazed upon her with a stern and bitter smile . 
Thus , in a state of mind baffling description , she had awakened , and the impression made by her dream was so strong , that , although she endeavoured to view it only as an insignificant vision , caused by the events of the day , she found it impossible to compose herself ; the figure of Berenza , discoloured by the effects of the poison , still swam in her view . 
At length , determined to end what she conceived to be her superstitious terrors , she resolved to seek the apartment of the Conte , and to satisfy herself with the conviction that her dream was without foundation , phantoms conjured merely by a diseased imagination . 
Accordingly , rising from bed , she wrapped herself in a loose white dress , and took in her hand a lamp , which was burning on a marble table at the other end of the room . 
As she quitted her chamber , it occurred to her , that Zofloya had said he would shield her from suspicion ; he might mean only with respect to having caused the death of the Conte ; he had not expressly said , that after his death it should not be possible to ascertain by what means it had been occasioned . 
This reflection accelerated her steps , and , with pallid cheek and beating heart , she reached the room , where , in awful solitary stillness , reposed the body of the Conte . 
Pausing , trembling at every step , dreading to discover she knew not what , slowly she approached the bed whereon he lay . 
The curtains , which were of gause , were drawn close around ; still hesitating without , she endeavoured to look through them : but the outline only of the poor Berenza 's form was discernible , as seen through a thin mist . 
Summoning resolution then , she drew the curtains apart ; a slight covering still lightly veiled his countenance ; desperate , fierce , she snatched it away , when , horrible confirmation of her fears , she beheld the features disfigured indeed , and frightfully changed , even to the most extravagant portraiture of her distempered fancy ! 
-- For a few moments she remained rooted to the spot ; then resistlessly impelled to search for , and know the worst at once , however it might increase her consternation and despair , she opened his peaceful unconscious bosom , whereon large spots of livid green and blue became revealed , and struck her almost senseless with overpowering dread ! 
no the dread of public justice , so much as the dread , horrible to her , that the discovery , or suspicion of her guilt , would prevent , before death , the accomplishment of her criminal wishes , rendering thereby useless and unavailing the enormities she had atchieved for their sake . 
These ideas glanced rapidly through her mind ; she still remained by the side of the bed , gazing upon the placid though discoloured features of him she had destroyed , and which , had she been susceptible of compunctious feeling , spoke in their mournful fixedness a thousand reproaches on her guilt . 
But no , her thoughts were employed upon the consequences likely to ensue to herself ; the hour of morning began to approach , and her heart beat with increased alarm , at the idea of the surmises that must soon be excited by the altered appearance of the Conte . 
-- its horrid torments , its lynx-eyed scrutiny , pressed upon her brain -- at this juncture she thought of Zofloya ; a faint hope that he might assist her in the present confusion of her ideas , determined her to apply to him -- yet how to seek him ? 
and at this hour how could she , to the presumptuous Moor , excuse the indecorum of summoning him ? 
These reflections , unworthy however the masculine spirit of a Victoria , she speedily overcame , in the stronger sense of her embarrassment , and she decided to seek him instantly . 
She knew that his apartment was situated near that of Henriquez , and cautiously she left the silent chamber of death , and retraced her steps along the darksome gallery , dimly illumined only by the lamp she held , and which served to guide her steps . 
As she was slowly proceeding , a ray from her lamp fell suddenly upon the sparkling vest of Zofloya , and partially betrayed his towering figure to her view . 
`` I was seeking you ; I need your advice ; hasten onwards , I pray , '' in a low voice entreated Victoria , too rejoiced to have encountered him , to feel surprise at his unexpected appearance . 
Victoria laid her finger on her lip , and turned back towards the chamber of the Conte ; the contrast between them , as they moved along , was peculiarly forcible ; the figure of Victoria , slender and elegantly proportioned , arrayed in flowing white , with her raven hair streaming over her shoulders ; that of Zofloya so gigantic , and differently attired , yet seeming at intervals , by the dubious rays of the lamp , and the effect of strong shade , increased to a height scarcely human . 
Once or twice , the deceptive magnitude of his dark shadow on the wall , struck with momentary alarm even the hardy Victoria , and might have excited remark , but that other objects engrossed too deeply her present thoughts . 
`` Enter , Zofloya , '' whispered Victoria , and approach that bed . '' 
The Moor opened the curtains , and looked upon the face of Berenza ; then turning immediately to Victoria , the expression of his features , -LRB- though less malignant and severe , -RRB- reminded her forcibly of her dream . 
`` Tell me , Moor , '' she exclaimed , rendered desperate by her feelings of terror , and grasping with violence the arm of Zofloya , `` tell me , what can be done in this terrible extremity ? '' 
`` Didst thou not tell me , '' pursued Victoria , `` thou wouldst preserve me from suspicion ? 
cried Victoria , gasping with terror , `` what is that you say ? '' 
`` I say , beautiful Victoria , whoever sees the Conte , will instantly pronounce , that his death was caused by poison ! '' 
Victoria clasped her hands , and remained mute with consternation and anguish , fixing her regards upon the Moor . 
`` Victoria ! '' 
The frame of Victoria trembled , and she retreated towards the door . 
Horror and awe , at the inexplicable character of the Moor , so wholly possessed her , that though she longed , she durst not require an explanation of his intentions with respect to the body of Berenza . 
His dark but brilliant eyes , like two stars in a gloomy cloud , pursued her with their strong imperious rays , even to the threshold of the door ; she stopped , hesitated , and attempted to speak , but the effort was vain ; and without power to offer resistance , she quitted the apartment . 
Great alternately were the terrors , and great the hopes of Victoria . 
On the word of the Moor she had strong reliance , for she had never yet found that he deceived her ; but his ambiguous promises , his explicit acknowledgment , that whoever saw the body of the Conte must discover the occasion of his death , threw her again into fits of doubt and consternation ; and the hours that she passed in her chamber , expecting every moment some confirmation of her fears , were the just portion of one immersed like herself in blackest guilt . 
The morning was not far advanced , when a mingled commotion , and confusion of voices , pervaded the castle ; the terrors of conscious criminality prevented her from rising to inquire the cause . 
Fainting , almost dying , she awaited the result , while cold drops of agony gemmed her writhing brow . 
At length a loud knocking at her chamber door caused her to start from her seat : the blood flew into her lately pallid cheeks , and as suddenly rushed back to her heart , leaving them again of a livid paleness . 
The knocking continued more dead than alive , she tottered to the door , and opened it ; various persons , domestics in the castle , burst into the room ; strong dismay painted on their faces , and with loud lamentation exclaimed , that the body of the Conte was missing !! 
Victoria alone could have attempted to explain it , and she carefully treasured in her bosom the ideas that presented themselves . 
most exquisite Zofloya , '' exclaimed she , in the solitude of her chamber , `` well mightest thou say , that those who beheld the body of the Conte , would be enabled to ascertain the cause of his death , while already thou had ` st resolved that it should never more be seen ! 
But after the first emotions of joy at her narrow escape had subsided , she began to marvel and reflect upon the sudden and precipitate disappearance of the body . 
`` Adieu then , for the present , to vain and useless surmises , '' thought she , `` I will rest content with the effect that has been produced . 
On the heart of Henriquez had the melancholy death of his brother , and its accompanying circumstances sunk the deepest ; -- the castle , where so late he had resided , became a gloomy memento in his sight , and the presence of Victoria daily and unaccountably more displeasing to him . 
-- Till this period , therefore , he decided to remain stationary , to smother the repugnant feelings of his bosom ; for he reflected , that unless he remained under the same roof with Victoria , he should be debarred the society of his Lilla , well knowing that her unaffected virtue and sense of decorum would deem it improper to be elsewhere so perpetually with him . 
Mean time , the passion of Victoria having now , as she conceived , no further obstacles to surmount , grew to an unrestrained height . 
But , above all , Victoria he viewed with almost absolute dislike ; -- her strong though noble features , her dignified carriage , her authoritative tone -- her boldness , her insensibility , her violence , all struck him with instinctive horror , so utterly opposite to the gentle Lilla , that when , with an assumed softness she deigned to caress her , he almost trembled for her tender life , and compared the picture in his mind , to the snowy dove fondled by the ravenous vulture . 
At length , with infinite reluctance , and to the bitter mortification of her pride , Victoria acknowledged to herself , that she was not only indifferent to Henriquez , but despised and hated by him . 
-- At this bitter conviction her brain whirled -- `` Yes , he detests me , '' she exclaimed in an agony of rage -- `` but he shall , he must be mine -- his boyish caprice shall nought avail him ; -- ah ! '' 
she continued , relapsing into softness -- `` I will throw myself , my fortune , into his arms , -- I will again sacrifice my liberty , and offer to become his wife . '' 
Amidst these reflections the haughty Victoria had scarce allowed herself to believe , that the attachment of Henriquez to Lilla was the cause of his indifference to her . 
As if to coincide with her views , Lilla on the same evening , complaining of indisposition , retired early ; and Henriquez who felt no desire to remain alone with a woman whom he viewed with sentiments of disgust , arose a few moments after Lilla had quitted the apartment , and bowing distantly to Victoria , was departing . 
`` Stay , Henriquez , '' cried the detertermined Victoria , starting from her seat -- `` I desire a few words with you . '' 
`` No , '' replied Victoria , in an impressive accent , `` I request you , Henriquez , to be seated . '' 
Victoria sprang from her abject possture , the feelings which swayed her heart had been irrepressible ; she had not intended to be thus premature in her avowal of love , but the violence of passion threw her off her guard ! 
she cried -- `` it is enough -- your insulting coolness , your bitter reproaches , I could have borne , -- have borne , proud as I am , with patience ! 
wretched Victoria , '' he continued , with a bitter smile , `` and could you attempt to talk of love to the lover of Lilla ? '' 
-- Can language describe the feelings of Victoria ? 
Her brain worked with wildest rage , producing almost instant madness ! 
-- Yet revenge , thirsting revenge , was the predominant sensation of her soul , swallowing up every other ! 
-- by an effort , and self-command , scarcely credible , she reined in the tumult of her passion , and forebore to recriminate upon Henriquez . 
-- In a moment he regretted the asperity with which he had spoken , and the reflection obtruded on his mind , that the female whose only fault towards him was the love which she bore him , merited at least a milder return ; he hesitated an instant -- the goodness of his heart prevailed , and he approached the wily Victoria . 
replied Victoria , redoubling her tears , `` it is I alone who am in fault ; at this moment I feel within me the reproaches due to my conduct ! 
-- Noble and generous as you are , forget , if you possibly can , the phrenzy of the moment , and do not -- do not , '' she pursued , casting herself again at his feet , `` despise me to the degree that I feel you ought . '' 
Henriquez , infinitely affected , raised in his arms her whom he believed was indeed the abashed and repentant Victoria : he besought her to be composed , and to forgive him the pain that he had caused her . 
`` Ah , all that I ask is your forgiveness , '' said Victoria , `` and your promise that you will not reflect upon what has passed this night , to my disadvantage . 
I will shew you , that if Victoria yields for a moment to an unpardonable weakness , that she knows how to conquer and become herself again . '' 
Henriquez assured her , that he would blot from his mind every impression unfavourable to her , and added , that by the immediate revival of noble sentiments in her bosom , and the candour with which she had arraigned herself , she had more than expiated the imperfect part of her conduct . 
Victoria , affecting to be satisfied , and grateful for this assurance , took , with well-feigned diffidence and humility , the hand of Henriquez , and raising it to her lips , turned from him , as if unable to restrain her emotion , and hurried out of the room . 
Reaching her own apartment , the miserable , because guilty , Victoria threw herself upon her bed , in torture too great to be described . 
The most infuriate passions , forcibly restrained as they had been in the presence of Henriquez , now agitated her breast , and now found vent in terrible imprecations . 
She cursed herself , the hour that gave her being , and the mother that had borne her ; outraged pride swelled her heart to bursting , and its insatiable fury called aloud for vengeance , for blood , and the blood of the innocent Lilla . 
`` Not yet , Victoria , '' said a melodious voice ; and before her stood the Moor , who gently seized her uplifted arm , and smiled . 
`` Beautiful Victoria , '' he answered , `` I come to counsel and to sooth . '' 
`` I can do much , Victoria , if you will confide in me . '' 
`` Not readily , while that other intervenes , fair Victoria . '' 
`` Lovely Victoria ! '' 
The silver tones of the Moor penetrated to the very heart of Victoria ; his wily accent was piteously tender ; tears , spontaneous tears , rushed into her eyes , and involuntarily she threw herself into his arms , which opened to receive her , and wept upon his bosom . 
The delusion of Victoria continued but a few moments : she hastily disengaged herself from his embrace , and hesitatingly said -- 'T is strange , Zofloya ! 
The Moor smiled also , and bent , as in acknowledgment , his graceful form ; -- fascination dwelt in every movement of this singular being , and in nothing was it more evinced , than in the power he held over the proud heart of Victoria . 
`` Rise then , Zofloya , '' cried Victoria , flattered and delighted by a condescension of late somewhat unusual with the Moor -- `` Rise and tell me -- ah ! 
cried Victoria , relapsing into phrenzy . 
-- `` No -- for it would excite instant suspicion , and then farewell to all your hopes -- you forget , fair Victoria , that already '' -- `` True , true , '' hastily returned Victoria ; `` but what then ? '' 
cried Victoria , `` and forgive my despair . '' 
interrupted Victoria , with demoniac sparkling eyes -- `` Yes , such torments , as shall pay for those she has inflicted upon me ! 
`` She shall be with me -- enquire no further , Victoria . '' 
Joy and abominable triumph filled the breast of Victoria ; well was she now versed , and well could decypher the ambiguous answers of the Moor . 
Victoria smiled at what she thought the gallantry of the Moor ; the Moor smiled likewise , but with a different air , and bowing respectfully to Victoria as he advanced towards the door , he said , `` Farewell , Signora , for the present ; watch for the first streak of the morning . '' 
No sooner was he gone , than Victoria extinguished the lamp , that no artificial light might render unobserved the first approach of dawn . 
Then opening the window , she seated herself beside it , and gazed with unblushing front upon the serene majesty of the cloudless heavens . 
Patiently did she endure the loss of sleep , patiently attend , like the blood-thirsty murderer , who rendered invulnerable to external ills by the strong nerved fierceness of his mind , lurks ambushed through the lonely night for the unconscious footstep of his destined victim ; so did she wake , so watch , anticipating alternately the gratification of her revenge , and scenes of future bliss with the beloved Henriquez . 
Meanwhile , Henriquez , being left to the solitude of his reflection , reviewed the conduct of Victoria . 
Victoria remained sitting at the window , immersed in gloomy meditation , till the opening horizon began to shew faint streaks of light between clouds of darker hue , and the blue mists of the distant waters slowly to dissipate . 
The stars became fainter , and a fresher breeze was wafted from the east , when intent on evil , she stole with cautious footsteps from her chamber . 
Now with beating heart she gained the court , and passed into the forest , hastening onwards to the path described by Zofloya ; the deep gloom rendered almost impervious the lonely way , and the break on the left , to which he had alluded ; she ascertained it however , and as she proceeded , a deeper gloom informed her , that she approached the frowning rock , which cast its dark shadow around . 
-- Though never before had she wandered in the light of day so far , she trusted implicitly to the directions of Zofloya , and prepared to ascend the rocky acclivity . 
Morning gradually advanced , but surrounding objects were still rendered indistinct by a delusive mist : -- she proceeded a considerable way up the rock , when the loud solemn roar of the foaming cataract , dashing from a fissure on the opposite side into the precipice beneath , broke upon her ear . 
-- She fearlessly advanced , however , till she gained the summit , while louder and more stunning became the angry sound of the waters . 
Here , for a while she decided to remain ; the dim light even yet afforded no correct view over the lengthened rock ; mountains of mist appeared rising above each other , till the last ridge dimly stretched its gigantic outline upon the distant horizon , shewing no world beyond . 
Such was the state of Victoria -- restless and impatient for the encreasing light ; -- encreasing light came on , she arose from the spot where she had seated herself , and gazed around ; on one side , the yet shade-enveloped forest , seeming , as Zofloya had said , an inconsiderable dell , appeared far beneath her feet , while , on the other , a dark blue line of mist gave distant warning of the sky-girt ocean , that in oblique ascent seemed blending with the heavens . 
-- Victoria contemplated , with joyous exultation , the helpless and devoted orphan : -- her fragile form lay nerveless , her snow-white arms , bare nearly to the shoulder -LRB- for a thin nightdress alone covered her , -RRB- hung down over the back of the Moor ; her feet and legs resembling sculptored alabaster , were likewise bare , her languid head drooped insensible , while the long flaxen tresses , escaping from the net which had enveloped them , now partly shaded her ashy cheek , and now streamed in dishevelled luxuriance on the breeze . 
cried Victoria , while her fierce and jealous eyes wandered over the betrayed graces of her spotless victim . 
He darted down a rugged path on the opposite side of the rock , and , though not with equal swiftness , Victoria pursued his steps . 
Zofloya , looking at Victoria , observed that she was nearly exhausted with violent exertion to keep him in view . 
Victoria endeavoured to smile , and followed him with new alacrity ; for the base passions of her soul stung her with a desperate firmness . 
Suddenly Zofloya stopped ; he laid his still inanimate burthen upon the rugged path , and with apparent ease , though it seemed to require super-human strength , removed what had appeared a projecting point of rock , but which Victoria now perceived to be only a huge and independent fragment of it , -- a deep narrow opening presented itself beneath ; the Moor , raising Lilla again in his arms , entered the aperture , with an inclination of the body ; -- Victoria still followed , and soon beheld herself in a spacious cavern , gloomily enlightened alone by the opening at which they had entered . 
`` Here , Victoria , '' cried the Moor , your rival may be at least secured from the possibility of further molesting you ; -- now , if the heart of Henriquez be vincible , there is nothing to impede your happiness . '' 
`` But , '' answered Victoria with a gloomy air , `` while Lilla lives , is there not a remote possibility that she might escape hence ? '' 
`` With this ring at the extremity , '' he pursued , `` while the girl is still insensible , I will fasten it round her wrist ; will you then , Victoria , be satisfied ? '' 
`` I will endeavor , '' hesitatingly replied Victoria , still desiring nothing less than the death of one whose beauty was blasting to her sight . 
-- How then , unassisted , incredulous fearful Victoria , could she trace out a path which she had not even power to observe ? 
`` Still I would wish the chain , '' muttered Victoria ; -- `` if unnecessary as a precaution , it may have its advantage as a punishment ; -- come , hasten good Zofloya , '' she continued , putting in his hand the fair and lifeless hand of Lilla -- `` let us depart from hence , before our absence is discovered . '' 
Zofloya , smiling with a scornful archness , retained the hand of Lilla in one hand , and holding the chain in the other , while he looked upon it , said to her in a jeering accent : `` Think you , Victoria , that il Conciglio di Deici hath ever confined any of its victims in a spot so remote as this cavern ? 
this ring , this massy chain , seem almost an evidence that '' -- -- At that terrible name the colour of Victoria forsook her cheek . 
Still with the smile upon his countenance , he prepared to obey the desire of the terror struck Victoria . 
-- In a moment , the galling chain was clasped around the delicate wrist of Lilla , and Victoria hastening towards the aperture , exclaimed : `` Let us now leave this place -- come Zofloya , and precede me hence . '' 
The motion and noise of the chain caused Victoria to turn her head -- she beheld the kneeling defenceless orphan -- but she saw only her rival , and pausing while a smile of exulting malice passed over her features , she waved her hand as in derision , and instantly hastened on . 
As she gained the mouth of the aperture , and retreated from the sight of the wretched girl , who with horror had recognized Victoria , a shrill and piercing scream assailed her ears , but failed to excite in her breast one emotion of pity , for the state in which she had abandoned her . 
`` Signora , '' observed Zofloya , as again they took their path across the mountains , -- `` it is my intention to return hither in the course of this day with provisions for our prisoner , and a mantle of leopard skin which I possess , to serve her at once for bed and covering -- I likewise intend '' -- `` Methinks you are tender of the upstart , '' angrily interrupted Victoria . 
`` Why there is certainly a pleasure , '' with a fierce malignant smile , observed Victoria , `` in the infliction of prolonged torment ; I therefore approve your arrangement . '' 
`` It will be an exquisite delight that I shall occasionally confer on myself , '' she replied , `` but if Henriquez prove unkind , she shall have no reason to thank me for my visit . '' 
Victoria turned her looks upon the Moor , to read if he spoke earnestly -- and she rejoiced to behold , in the lambent fire of his ardent eyes , relentless cruelty and mischievous delight , as he had uttered the last words . 
The Moor spoke not , and Victoria , absorbed in calculations of the conduct most eligible to be pursued for the attainment of her wishes , sought not to draw him into converse . 
-- Victoria acquiesced in the propriety of the idea . 
-- She hastened towards the castle , and he struck into an opposite direction . 
Henriquez awakened , in the fond hope of beholding her whose lovely image had visited him in his dreams ; he hastened to a certain part of the wood , the most open and chearful , where , as frequent , he expected to find her ; for Lilla sometimes inhaled the pure breeze from the mountains at an early hour of the morning . 
For some time he traversed this favorite spot with patience , conceiving it possible , that , yielding longer than usual to sleep , she had not yet arisen . 
Yet the morning was already so far advanced , that every moment rendered this idea more improbable ; he determined therefore to return into the house -- still he beheld no sign of her his soul adored -- impatiently he summoned a female servant , and ordered her to repair to the chamber of the Signora Lilla , to awaken her , and inform her of the lateness of the hour . 
What alarm then must have seized him , when the servant , returning , informed him that the bed of the young Signora was vacant , and appeared to have been so for some time , but that her clothes remained upon the chair beside it , where they seemed to have been cast on the preceding night . 
Henriquez , naturally impetuous , made no remark , but , springing from his seat , rushed past the servant , and flew wildly into her chamber , where failing indeed to behold her , with frantic impatience he searched every part of the castle that was habitable , it is needless to say , in vain . 
Regardless at length of every thing but his lost love , the door of Victoria 's chamber meeting his view , he burst it , with the strength of madness , open , and rushed into her apartment . 
The artful Victoria , fully prepared for the scene she expected to ensue , had retired to her bed , on returning from the dreadful deed of the early morning , and as Henriquez forced himself into her chamber , appeared to start up alarmed , as if suddenly aroused from a peaceful slumber . 
Henriquez , regardless of her seeming terror or surprise , flew towards the bed , scarce knowing what he did , and seizing her by the arm , exclaimed , in frantic voice , `` My Lilla is missing ! 
answered Victoria , with assumed surprise -- `` impossible , Signor , '' but observing the air with which Henriquez regarded her , she added , `` yet if it be so , would I could indeed inform you where to seek her . '' 
`` Retire a moment then , Signor Henriquez , '' in sympathising accents said Victoria ; `` I will arise and dress myself , and together we will seek our beloved little friend . '' 
Perceiving the despair and anguish of Henriquez painted in his eyes , she continued , `` Be pacified , I entreat you , and rest assured the fair girl can not be far distant . '' 
Henriquez , striking his hand upon his forehead , darted out of the room , and Victoria hastily rising , and dressing herself , followed him into the apartment where they usually assembled . 
She proposed to the distracted lover , that they should seek Lilla together . 
He was immediately conveyed to bed by order of Victoria . 
During the whole of his illness , Victoria had never quitted his apartment , administering to him with her own hands every medicine that was prescribed , and sleeping by night with one of her attendants in his chamber . 
When the powers of his mind became sufficiently restored to recognize surrounding objects , her attentions , if possible , redoubled ; and could Henriquez have divested himself of the unconquerable disgust with which he viewed her , her singular tenderness and care towards him must have excited in him the utmost gratitude and regard . 
But vain was her solicitude , rather painful than pleasing to him , and the moments in which his wretched mind felt most relief from intolerable anguish ; were those very few in which she was absent from him . 
But his coldness and repugnance was either unperceived , or unheeded by Victoria -- She became daily more passionately tender , more undisguised in her manner towards him , and this as well involuntarily as by the previous decision of her mind . 
Gloomy melancholy and perpetual abstraction , still , however , possessed the unfortunate Henriquez , when , conceiving that she advanced too slowly , by simply paying the attentions of friendship -LRB- so understood at least -RRB- to Henriquez , she resolved once more gently to probe the present situation of his heart respecting her ; for presumptuously she flattered herself , that her complete devotion to him , throughout a long and dangerous malady , must in some degree have impressed him in her favor . 
One evening when she was sitting in his apartment , with the silent meditative Henriquez , he feeling an anxious wish to indulge in solitude the luxury of his grief , gently , though with perfect coolness , observed to her : `` I do not desire , Signora , thus to be a tax upon your time and your friendship ; I pray you , now that I am so far convalescent , be less punctilious in your attentions towards me , and use some recreation to relieve your mind . '' 
Determined to let no opportunity pass for touching upon the subject nearest her heart , Victoria replied in a voice of tender reproach . 
`` I can forbear no longer , '' exclaimed Victoria , throwing herself at his feet ; `` Oh , Henriquez ! 
Henriquez knew not how to reply , for he felt that local circumstances made gratitude due to Victoria ; yet her present base avowal , doubly infamous at such a time , -- her abject prostration at his feet , excited anew all the gall of his bosom against her , and , spite of every consideration , he found it impossible to treat her with softness . 
For a few moments , then , he remained in painful silence , but his determination to crush at once those hopes his anguished heart told him he could never realise -- shocked too at the cruel indelicacy that so early could attempt to obliterate from his mind all traces of his first and only love -- he attempted with impatient gesture to raise her from the ground . 
Victoria , in violent agitation , arose . 
cried Victoria , in accents scarcely articulate , `` ungrateful Henriquez ! 
Victoria , returning , flew towards him , and raising him in her arms , laid her head upon his bosom . 
she cried , while the bitter smile of disappointed pride and passion passed over her features -- `` Ah , stubborn relentless Henriquez ! 
`` Death -- death will be the consequence , '' cried the half frantic Henriquez , who had caught her last words ; and perceiving that his head reclined upon her bosom , started hastily from the floor , as though he felt the sting of a scorpion ! 
Victoria , fearful of returning delirium , spoke no more ; but assisting him , against his will , to rise , led him to the side of his bed , and left him to himself . 
With perturbed and gloomy spirits , mechanically she bent her steps towards the forest . 
It was late in the evening ; the sky was overcast with black heavy clouds , but unheeding she pursued her way ; the thunder now rattled over her head , and the blue lightning flashed across her path ; her mind , however , too engaged in its internal warfare , regarded not the warring of the elements , and external circumstances had rarely power to affect her stubborn mind . 
she cried aloud , certain that no one was nigh , `` how satisfy my destroying passion ? 
As she uttered these words , a soul enchanting melody rose gradually in swelling notes upon her ear ; she paused to listen -- her mind became calmed , and wrapt in attention . 
She wondered at the magical powers of the invisible musician . 
In a few minutes it sunk in thrilling cadence , and was heard no more The gloom of Victoria 's mind began to return , and , angry that any external circumstance should have had power for a moment to interrupt the despondency of her thoughts , she prepared , disgusted as she was at not having met with Zofloya , to leave the forest . 
As she hastily turned , however , suddenly she encountered him . 
`` I am glad , Zofloya , to behold thee , '' she cried , `` but how cam ` st thou here ? 
`` That I might have the frequent , yet ever new delight , fair Victoria , of hearing myself called upon . '' 
Soon as it ceased you turned , and we met ; -- but say , Victoria , how speed your wishes ? '' 
miserable wretch that I am , '' returned Victoria -- `` much I fear , success will never be mine -- Henriquez loaths me . 
-- `` Love , and ceaseless devotion to the memory of his Lilla ; -- yet , has he insultingly added , that had a Lilla never existed , Victoria could have had no power to excite his love . '' 
would , '' cried the degenerate Victoria , `` would that this unwieldy form could be compressed into the fairy delicacy of hers , these bold masculine features assume the likeness of her baby face ! 
`` Beautiful Victoria , '' cried the Moor in a soft flattering voice -- `` call not that graceful form unwieldy , nor to those noble and commanding features offer such indignity . 
-- Eminent loveliness is yours , -- could the tasteless Henriquez but believe you Lilla '' -- he paused -- and Victoria fixed her eager searching eyes upon his countenance ; -- when finding that Zofloya did not proceed , she exclaimed . 
-- but speak , '' cried Victoria , `` if aught you can adduce to sooth the despair of my mind . '' 
I have said so , '' replied Victoria in a gloomy accent . 
yes , with joy , with delight , '' interrupted Victoria -- `` say but how such blissful delusion could be conveyed to his mind . '' 
`` If you would have me expire at your feet , '' cried Victoria wildly -- `` attempt to leave me thus unsatisfied -- in the very midst too of the faint hope you have suffered to beam upon my soul . 
she pursued , as the blue lightning conjured trees of fire , and seemed to dance upon the summit of the mountains ; -- `` what even of the dissolution of nature in a moment like this , when my soul pants for -- '' `` Well then , '' interrupted the Moor , `` noble intrepid Victoria ! 
Victoria , unable any longer to restrain her emotions , threw herself upon her knees , and clasped her hands eagerly together . 
she cried -- oh , moment for which my heart so long has panted ! 
`` Reserve your transports , fair Victoria -- reserve them for that moment which I swear to you shall arrive ; mean time arise , and hear me to an end . '' 
Once more , and for the last time , Zofloya drew forth the box , the fatal repository of so much mischief -- then placing in the hands of Victoria , a small folded paper containing the philtre to which he had alluded , he bade her , with a serious smile , use well her advantages , and , without another sentence , turned suddenly away . 
Victoria , too inebriated with joy at the prospect she beheld of at length obtaining her dearest wishes , to remark or wonder at the precipitate departure of the Moor , thought only of the exquisite happiness he had promised her , and unmindful of the awe inspiring thunder , -- unmindful of the red lightning -LRB- which gleaming around at quick repeated intervals , shewed mountains , rocks , and forests of fire , -RRB- remained with undefended form , but a heart beating high with the fervor of hope , rooted , as it were , to the spot in idolatrous anticipation of future bliss . 
At length forcibly rousing herself , she returned to the castle ; on her way she beheld no traces of Zofloya , and concluded -LRB- an idea not unfavourable to his character -RRB- that he had chosen a night like the present , to wander among the mountains : -- She proceeded , however , and entering the castle , gently approached the chamber of Henriquez . 
-- With air humbled and abashed , she presented herself before him , and addressed him in a faltering voice of tender humility . 
Again Henriquez became the dupe of her artifice -- again he regretted his cruel explicitness , and though he could not help feeling for her a certain portion of involuntary disgust , he received her with gentle politeness . 
She , with well-assumed melancholy softness , but secret exultation , busied herself in silence , in little offices about his chamber ; these completed and arranged , she proposed to retire for the night . 
-- Henriquez with a grateful bow , as if for her attention , acquiesced in the movement , when Victoria , retreating with an air of mortified resignation towards the door , pretended suddenly to remember that she had not administered to him a certain restorative medicine , which with her own hand she had insisted on presenting to him , every night since his recovery . 
Hastily returning at the further end of the room , remote from the pensive Henriquez , she prepared his mixture , and infused the drug given her by Zofloya . 
Approaching him then , with hand rendered unsteady from ravishing anticipation of the effects it would produce , she tendered it to him . 
Henriquez felt no inclination for his potion , yet unwilling to dismiss Victoria from him with an aching heart , he took it with a soft thankful smile from her hand , and instantly drank it off . 
-- This accomplished so far , with frame still tremulous , and heart wildly beating with the thoughts of the morning , Victoria received back the glass , and bidding him farewell , retired from the chamber . 
Victoria , anxiously upon the watch , heard all his movements ; the better to deceive him , she wore a veil of Lilla 's , and such parts of her dress as might suit indiscriminately either the one or the other . 
This was the moment for Victoria -- she threw open the door of the chamber , as if by chance , and came forth ! 
Who can describe the delight of Victoria at this proof of the extravagance of Henriquez ? 
`` No more , my Henriquez -- my husband , '' cried the artful Victoria , `` but let this blisful day be dedicated to love and joy ; and although we have never in reality been separated -- yet let us celebrate this day , as for our restoration to each other . '' 
He seized the hand of Victoria , and pressing it to his lips , cried out aloud in a mirthful voice , `` Let us feast , and dance then , on this glorious day , my Lilla ! 
`` Yes , yes , my love , '' interrupted Victoria , joyfully smiling , we will have a banquet , and music ; and in these beautiful solitudes , we will be the world to each other . '' 
He threw his arm round the waist of the joy-mad Victoria , and , in wild sport , dragged , rather than led , her from the spot . 
-- Now drowned in tender tears , the inspired Henriquez listened with restrained enthusiasm , -- now raised to distracting rapture , he leaped from his seat , and his strong emotion found no vent but on the beating bosom of Victoria ; her he pressed eagerly in his arms , and on that treacherous breast shed tears of the wildest transport . 
In his phrenzy he had desired to dance , and Victoria , with the grace of a sylph , flitted in varied movements to the soft music of Zofloya . 
-- Not the fair Lilla , the betrothed and heart-wedded wife of his bosom , but Victoria ! 
-- Victoria had awakened as he sprang from the bed , but not in time to prevent his dreadful and unthought for deed ; -- she reached him only as he fell , and , casting herself wildly on her knees beside him , raised his head upon her bosom . 
At her touch , strong convulsive shudderings seized the frame of the dying Henriquez ; he sought to lift his head from her breast and dash it on the ground , when finding himself incapable of doing so , his agonies encreased ten-fold ? 
-- For a moment his closing eyes glared upon her , as in desire of vengeance , but the strong emotion expired with his fleeting breath , and a harrowing smile -- a smile of despairing triumph , passed over his waning features , as though he would have said , `` Thus do I escape thee for ever , persecuting fiend ! '' 
Thus vanished at once , Victoria beheld her death-reared visions ; -- frantic rage fired her soul at the thought , and keen disappointment maddened her brain . 
-- Now she clasped her hands , and twisted her fingers in each other , and now tore , by handfuls , the hair from her head , strewing it in agony over the lifeless body of Henriquez . 
At length her violence subsided ; a sudden portentous calm took possession of her mind , and she started on her feet . 
Wildly she seized her dagger , and , throwing a few clothes over her , revolved in her mind a confusion of horrible intent . 
Quitting hastily the chamber of despair and death , yet instinctively securing the door after her , she sped her way into the forest . 
Scarce was she herself conscious of the dire purpose that throbbed at her heart -- yet her steps were directed towards that fatal spot , where , in hopeless imprisonment , the miserable Lilla still languished . 
Victoria approaching , raised her dagger , which she firmly grasped , and , seizing her chained wrist , loudly commanded her to rise . 
wildly shrieked the maddened Victoria , `` prepare for death ! '' 
-- `` Ah , Victoria ! '' 
Victoria , in what then have I offended you , that you should hate me thus ? 
shrieked Victoria ; '' thou hast already done me more ill than the sacrifice of thy worthless life can repay -- follow me ! '' 
cried Victoria ; and seizing her by the arm , dragged her over the rugged ground , and up the irregular ascent , while her delicate feet , naked and defenceless to the pointed rock , left their blood red traces at every step ! 
cried Victoria again . 
shrieked , in accents of agony , the terrified Lilla , clinging , with the strength of horror , round the body of Victoria . 
sweet Victoria , remember we have been friends . 
-- Sweet and gentle Victoria , murder not , then , the friendless Lilla , who for worlds would not injure thee ! '' 
-- but where , where is Henriquez now , Victoria ? 
with a fiend-like laugh , cried Victoria . 
-- Ah , cruel Victoria ! 
fiercely returned Victoria . 
-- no one would dare , '' she sobbed , `` while thou wert near , thus to treat the miserable Lilla ; -- no hope , no happiness for her now , in lengthened life ! '' 
exclaimed Victoria , endeavouring to shake off the firmly clinging form of the defenceless Lilla . 
dearest Victoria -- I am afraid of so terrible a death ! 
`` That will I do , '' cried the enraged Victoria , `` and dash thee head-long beside . 
Raising her dagger high , she sought then to plunge it in the fair bosom of the beauteous orphan , but she , suddenly relinquishing her hold , the point of the dagger , wounded only her uplifted hand , and glancing across her alabaster shoulder , the blood that issued thence , slightly tinged her flaxen tresses with a brilliant red . 
The courage of the wretched Lilla forsook her -- the death she had preferred , her innocent soul shrunk from enduring ; but perceiving that Victoria was desperate , and determined , she resolved to make a last effort for her life . 
-- Again the fell poignard was uplifted for surer aim -- when springing from her knees , on which she had cast herself , to implore mercy , she forgot at once her wounds and her weakness , and endeavoured by speed to escape her barbarous enemy ; seeming , as she wildly flew , the beauteous and timid spirit of the solitude . 
Nerved anew by this feeble attempt to escape her vengeance , Victoria pursued her flying victim . 
At the uttermost edge of the mountain she gained upon her , when Lilla perceiving that hope of escape was vain , caught frantic , for safety , at the scathed branches of a blasted oak , that , bowed by repeated storms , hung almost perpendicularly over the yawning depth beneath . 
Victoria advanced with furious looks -- she shook the branches of the tree , that Lilla might fall headlong . 
-- Her powers were soon exhausted , when clasping together her hands , and looking piteously upon that which had received the wound , from whence the blood now streamed up to her elbow ; she exclaimed , `` Barbarous Victoria ! 
Remember that , Victoria -- have pity on me -- and I will pray of heaven to forgive thee the past ! '' 
The only answer of Victoria was a wild laugh , and again she raised the poignard to strike . 
-- `` Take then my life Victoria -- take it at once , -- but kill me I implore , with that same dagger with which you murdered Henriquez , because he loved me more than he did you ! '' 
Fired to madness by this accusation , and the concluding remark , Victoria , no longer mistress of her actions , nor desiring to be so , seized by her streaming tresses the fragile Lilla , and held her back . 
-- Victoria pursued her blows -- she covered her fair body with innumerable wounds , then dashed her headlong over the edge of the steep . 
-- Her fairy form bounded as it fell against the projecting crags of the mountain , diminishing to the sight of her cruel enemy , who followed it far as her eye could reach . 
Soon as a hollow momentary sound struck on the rapt ear of Victoria , informing her that Lilla was sunk into her grave , no more to rise , she hastened from the dreadful spot in a state of mind , which , if exulting , was far from being at ease -- possessed rather with the madness and confusion of hell . 
`` Victoria ! '' 
haughtily , returned Victoria -- `` but if I have , the deed is mine , and I will answer it . 
`` The consequences be on my own head , '' answered Victoria , -- `` I will pass . '' 
-- `` Thou shalt -- but remember , poor Victoria , that independently of me , thou canst not even breathe ! '' 
With a look of scorn and disgust at the changed manner of the Moor , Victoria turned from him , and pursued her way . 
-- Her mind already in a ferment , could brook no additional irritation ; -- just as she reached the castle , she beheld Zofloya entering before her , yet she had not seen him pass her , and he had even remained some moments upon the spot where she had encountered him . 
-- This circumstance excited some slight surprise , but objects of higher consequence engaged her mind , and she followed him into the castle . 
Her first step was to repair to the chamber of Henriquez . 
-- It immediately appeared to her , that no one had found entrance to it during her absence ; the lifeless body bathed in its blood still remained extended on the floor , and all was in the state she had left her -- She decided , therefore , despising in her mind the false prophecies of Zofloya , to secure the door , without as yet making known the death of Henriquez . 
-- His non-appearance she readily conceived would excite no immediate remark , he having frequently of late passed the whole of the day in his chamber . 
Thus , she determined , -LRB- for her mind was a chaos , and could suggest no better conduct for the moment -RRB- -- to make fast the door ; repairing then to the solitude of her own apartment , she secured it likewise , and throwing herself upon her bed , desired to take a retrospect of the past , and consider , if possible , respecting the future . 
-- She endeavoured to collect her wandering thoughts , but instead of this , an unconquerable lassitude crept over her , accompanied by a disposition to sleep . 
-- In vain she tried to shake it off , the influence became resistless -- her eyelids involuntarily closed , and she was compelled to yield to a power superior to her will . 
Total forgetfulness , however , did not ensue ; -- she experienced a sensation similar to that of persons who have taken too large a quantity of opium to allow of calm undisturbed repose . 
-- To herself her eyes appeared as if strained to their fullest extent -- strange visions swam in her sight ; yet unable to trust the delusion , she believed herself under the unconquerable horrors of a waking dream . 
-- Now the ringing of bells sounded in her ears , and now she beheld herself transported into an apartment , distant from the habitable part of the castle , and which , ever since the death of Berenza , had not even been opened . 
-- In this room formerly there had stood a huge iron chest , this she had once seen ; now likewise it was present to her view , and she recognised it . 
`` Victoria , '' he said , `` attend . 
exclaimed Victoria . 
Over the body of the Conte I had not eternal power -- yet thy own folly and impatience hath hastened '' -- `` Ah , little could I dream of this reserve , '' interrupted Victoria , `` yet surely , surely , it is in thy power to preserve me for ever from suspicion ; for , Zofloya , thou possessest superior power -- the future is exposed to thy view -- thou anticipatest events , and canst therefore guard against them . 
The terrible eyes of Zofloya shot fire , as they turned their burning glances on Victoria . 
cried Victoria -- `` your words , your looks , terrify and confound me ; yet go not , '' she continued , as with angry , though majestic pace , Zofloya moved towards the door ; `` abandon me not at this crisis , cruel Zofloya . '' 
`` Well then -- once more thou entreatest , '' he cried , `` once more I be-friend thee ; but beware , Victoria , how again I am reproached ; -- to irritate me now would be vain and impolitic , and sharpen against thyself that sentiment of hate which I bear -- but this is irrelevant , '' he hastily added -- `` suspicion will , as I said , attach to thee -- by what means induced I scarcely need now explain ; the terrible Inquisition will drag thee before its tribunal ; infinite confusion will reign in this castle ; the chamber of Henriquez will be forced open , -LRB- for strange surmises begin already to prevail concerning thee -RRB- and instantly they will discover that which , of itself , would damn thee . 
spare me , '' cried Victoria -- `` horrible is my fate ! 
Ah , tell me , Moor , didst thou not promise that '' -- `` Beware , Victoria ! 
Victoria longed to reply -- but awe and terror checked the words that rose to her lips ; yet the idea glanced for an instant through her mind , -LRB- and bitter was the suggestion -RRB- how fleeting , and how short-lived had been the moments of precarious pleasure procured for her by Zofloya , yet how terrible and how lasting the evils they had produced ; they were , as the passing shadows , the mere mockery only of what they promised , while real horrors waiting to overwhelm and destroy , attended close upon them . 
The Moor , with a piercing glance , seemed to penetrate her inmost thoughts ; a shade of severity passed over his features , and he said : `` If you hesitate respecting the path you should pursue at present , I leave you free to chuse . '' 
Victoria clasped her hands -- too well she beheld the desolate prospect before her -- too keenly felt the words of the Moor ; -- there appeared indeed no escape for her . 
`` Decide , Victoria ! '' 
replied Victoria . 
-- I rely on you to save me from the horrors that now encompass me , or to bear me safely through them ; -- to save me from them , Zofloya , '' she added emphatically , `` for ever . '' 
-- I can not , Victoria , influence the course of justice , nor prevent that from arising , which arises independently of me . 
with an abstracted air demanded Victoria . 
It was now quite dark ; Victoria , was sensible neither of hunger nor thirst , yet felt a desire to retrace the terrible events that had been crowded into her life . 
-- The attempt was vain , a numbing torpor began to creep over her as before ; she essayed to conquer it , though contrary to the direction of Zofloya ; and her incapacity to do so conveyed a bitter pang to her heart , while she felt that she was no longer mistress over herself or her faculties . 
-- Chill horror took possession of her , and in an agony of mind that words can not describe , seeming subject as it were to an unknown power , and unable to resist , she hopelessly resigned herself to the arbitrary spell that appeared to be cast over her . 
Darkness and gloomy solitude reigned around , when the eyes of Victoria again opened to the sense of life and perception . 
She found herself reclining on the bare earth ; the thunder rolled aloud over her head , and flashes of vivid flame now and then displayed the terrific sublimity of surrounding objects . 
-- Immense mountains , piled upon one another , appeared to encompass her , and to include within their inaccessible bosoms the whole of the universe . 
To him the scene appeared congenial , and Victoria acknowledged to herself , that never before had she beheld him in his proper sphere . 
On him the eyes of Victoria involuntarily fixed ; dignity , and ineffable grace , were diffused over his whole figure ; -- for the first time she felt towards him an emotion of tenderness , blended with her admiration , and , strange inconsistency , amidst the gloomy terrors that pressed upon her heart , amidst the sensible misery that oppressed her , she experienced something like pride , in reflecting , that a Being so wonderful , so superior , and so beautiful , should thus appear to be interested in her fate . 
As if he penetrated her thoughts , the Moor approached , with a sweet though awful smile , and extended his hand for her to rise . 
Trembling , as much from consciousness at the confused sentiments she felt arising in her bosom , as from alarm , occasioned by external circumstances , she took his proffered hand . 
`` Tell me , Zofloya , '' she said , in a tremulous accent , `` Tell me where we now are , and how we came hither . '' 
`` Know you not , beautiful Victoria , that we are among the Alps , the boundaries of your native kingdom ? 
cried Victoria , with uneasiness , `` and it is to you alone that I am now indebted for their restoration ? 
She sighed deeply as she uttered these words , and the conviction of her subjection pressed heavily upon her mind : -- her self-confidence vanished , and uneasy sensations filled her bosom . 
Zofloya smiled , and tenderly took her hand . 
-- `` Why these reflections , Victoria , and why these inferences ? 
Zofloya paused -- a loud peal of thunder rattled madly above them , and reverberated in stern and hollow sounds among the echoing rocks ; -- the pointed lightning fearfully gleamed in long and tremulous flashes , -- Victoria 's firm bosom felt appalled , for never before had she witnessed the terrible phenomena of nature , in a storm among the Alps . 
-- She drew closer to the proud unshrinking figure of the Moor -- he passed his arms round her waist , and gently pressed her to his breast . 
Victoria felt reassured -- she seemed to herself as an isolated being , possessing no earthly friend or protector , but him on whose bosom she now tremblingly reposed . 
-- Never , till this moment , had she been so near the person of the Moor -- such powerful fascination dwelt around him , that she felt incapable of withdrawing from his arms ; yet ashamed , -LRB- for Victoria was still proud -RRB- and blushing at her feelings , when she remembered that Zofloya , however he appeared , was but a menial slave , and as such alone had originally become known to her -- she sought , but sought vainly , to repress them ; for no sooner -LRB- enveloped in the lightning 's flash as he seemed , when it gleamed around him without touching his person -RRB- , -- did she behold that beautiful and majestic visage , that towering and graceful form , than all thought of his inferiority vanished , and the ravished sense , spurning at the calumnious idea , confessed him a being of superior order . 
Zofloya , inclining his body , said in a low voice to Victoria , `` Be not alarmed , we shall be presently surrounded by these bands , hordes of whom infest these mountains , particularly mount Cenis , where we now are ; but regret not the circumstance , no immediate ill will arise ; on the contrary , we may , if we will , procure shelter and accommodation . '' 
Victoria made no reply , for by this time a ring began to be formed round them of armed men , the red flame of whose torches betrayed forms and features of such desperate and horrid cast , that scarely bore they the semblance of human beings . 
With one arm round the waist of Victoria , and holding a torch that had been tendered to him in the other hand , Zofloya walked stately in the midst of the band , his plumed head towering above all , as the lofty poplar of the forest proudly towers above surrounding shrubs . 
`` Astonishing being that he is , '' thought Victoria -- `` even these ferocious bandit are tamed into submission by the magic power of that fascinating voice . '' 
Victoria beheld herself in her turn at the darksome mouth of this cavern , -LRB- to which the o'erhanging brow of the rock formed a natural and tremendous portico -RRB- and again her spirits failed , and her heart began to sink . 
Compelled to proceed , however , for the bandit from behind pressed onwards , she consoled herself with the reflection , that Zofloya was nigh , and resumed her courage . 
Victoria looked around ; the gloomy cave reminded her of that in which the unfortunate Lilla had been pitilessly immured , and involuntarily she trembled . 
His face was concealed by a mask , which circumstance excited the surprize of Victoria . 
Victoria felt surprize to hear the Moor speak thus ; but surprize at his conduct had ceased to be a new sensation : she remained silent therefore , and the chief thus replied : `` It is enough -- we injure not the defenceless , nor those who throw themselves upon our mercy . 
`` Drink , '' said the masked chief , and offered to Zofloya a flask of wine , who , receiving it , presented it immediately to Victoria . 
This movement appeared to draw towards her the regards of the chief ; for a moment they were fixed stedfastly upon her ; he became agitated , and laid his hand upon the hilt of the stiletto in his belt , then half rose from his seat , and again reseated himself ! 
-- Victoria trembled , she knew not why ; the company seemed surprised ; Zofloya alone remained collected and unmoved ; he pressed Victoria to eat with respectful entreaty . 
By degrees the chief resumed his composure , he looked no longer towards Victoria with pointed regard , and her uneasiness abating , she accepted the attentions of Zofloya . 
-- Victoria ! 
-- the Signora I mean -- -LRB- she is neither your wife or mistress I presume -RRB- will find matting to repose on in a separate nook of our cavern . '' 
The words of the masked chief electrified Victoria -- surprize possessed her soul , for it was evident she was known to him . 
With skins and matting the Moor Zofloya composed for Victoria a tolerable bed ; he spread it in a rugged nook , remote from the band , and , leading her towards it , was retiring , when Victoria 's proud , but now almost subjugated heart , touched with the respectful attentions of the only companion her vices and her crimes had left her , extended to him , with softened looks , her hand . 
-- He took it with tenderness , yet delicate reserve , and raised it to his lips -- his manner but encreased to ardour the feelings of Victoria . 
Victoria , as he held her hand to his lips , gazed upon him with admiration and gratitude , and her high wrought emotion vented itself in a flood of tears ! 
-- yes , the proud , the inhuman Victoria , conquered and affected by the shew of kindness , wept from feeling , from an emotion of the heart ! 
`` Sweet and gentle Victoria , '' he cried , in a voice that seemed the music of the spheres , `` compose yourself , and retire to rest -- why should my trifling attentions call forth this excess of feeling ? 
`` I know that thou art , in a degree , lovely Victoria -- but not sufficiently so . '' 
`` Ah , Victoria ! '' 
`` Thou wilt , thou shalt , fair Victoria , I have sworn it -- by myself I have sworn it -- but now , -- now I leave thee to repose -- delay will but encrease the value of my prize . '' 
`` Time will explain it -- fairest Victoria , good night . '' 
The Moor withdrew , and Victoria sunk oppressed upon her couch , -- a couch harder far than any on which hitherto she had reposed ; -- `` Yet the poor departed Lilla ! '' 
-- strange to say , the conviction of Zofloya 's proximity , who now shed enchantment around , and ravished her deluded mind . 
She fell , at length , into a slumber , from which she did not awake till the noise of the bandit , moving to and fro in the cavern , caused her to start and gaze eagerly round for Zofloya , the only being on whom she now considered herself to possess the smallest claim ; -- he observed her eager looks , and hastening towards her , said -- `` I have obtained permission of the chief , sweet Victoria , that you shall quit the cavern , and enjoy the keen air of the mountains ; he relies upon the word of Zofloya that we return to this spot , which has afforded us shelter in an hour of necessity , and that whenever we quit it , we shall consent to be escorted by some of his troop , to the other side of the mountain , or some miles forward , in whatever direction we may desire to go : this to avoid the possibility of evil design on our parts , and to satisfy his mind with respect to us : -- mean time , he permits us to go unaccompanied . '' 
whispered Victoria , `` and can I see him ? '' 
Victoria gave her hand to the Moor , secretly surprised he should have been able so readily to mark the devious way , -- but nothing was impossible to Zofloya ; his noble presence seemed to diffuse around respect and admiration , -- submissively the fierce bandit fell back as he passed , when , as they reached the rugged ascent leading to the mouth of the cavern , and were on the point of issuing thence , the graceful chief -LRB- still masked -RRB- appeared before them , with his female companion leaning on his arm . 
For a moment he stopped with a proud uneasy air , when seeming to remark the respect manifested by the Moor towards Victoria , he slightly bowed , and retreated a few steps , leaving room for them to pass beneath the frowning portico that concealed and overhung the aperture of the cavern . 
His companion , however , fixed her eyes upon Victoria , with a look at once of hate and malicious scorn ; -- Victoria felt agitated , and again the features of this woman impressed forcibly her mind ; -- well she remembered that bold and phrenzied countenance , though appearing far less beautiful than when she saw it first , being now from irregular living , or some other cause , bloated and coarse . 
But yet the never-fading expression of features , so familiar to her fancy , remained , though the power of memory was vain to identify them . 
As they emerged from subterrene gloom to the light of day , Victoria expressed to the Moor the sensations which oppressed her -- `` I know not whence it is , '' she said , `` but the stately and solemn deportment , of that chief affects me strangely , -- his regards , not of an approving kind , are pointed particularly at me . 
`` But why should she regard me , '' pursued Victoria , `` with looks so hostile and malignant ? 
said the Moor with a serious air , and looking gloomily upon Victoria . 
Victoria involuntarily shuddered -- `` True , '' -- he pursued -- `` I take no part in the common occurrences of life -- common occurrences do not interest me . 
cried Victoria , `` wretched and friendless as I am , yet ever to lament that thy converse to me is unintelligible . '' 
`` It will not always be so , Victoria -- but seat thyself here beside me , and let us discourse on other subjects . '' 
Victoria obeyed -- for it was impossible for her to resist the smallest proposition of the Moor ; -- he placed himself near her , and entreated her to partake of the provisions he had brought , but she felt an oppression at her heart , and could not eat . 
-- Perceiving her uneasiness , he passed his arm round her waist , and said -- `` Fair Victoria , why this discontent ? 
-- Victoria started involuntarily . 
`` A truce , fair Victoria , to folly ! 
Victoria repented her ill-timed check -- she felt herself in the power of the Moor , while his manner , at once proud and imperious , carried with it an irresistible charm , a somewhat that penetrated her heart , and took from her the wish , as well as the power , to offer further reproof . 
`` Victoria , '' resumed the Moor , `` remember , that I have been thy willing instrument , and that literally I have performed to thee the promises I made . '' 
The heart of Victoria did not assent ; she felt that his promises had been fallacious , or indefinitely performed ; but still she forbore remark , and he proceeded as though he understood her thoughts . 
-- Thou canst not be displeased , Victoria , -- am I to blame for the unkindness of fortune ? '' 
The speciousness and futility of his arguments were sufficiently evident to Victoria , yet her soul involuntarily became softened . 
Graceful beauty shone conspicuous in the form of the Moor , and a fascinating sweetness dwelt on his features ; -- his resplendent , yet tender beaming eyes , sent their powerful softness through her bosom , and her heart dissolved in willing pleasing delusion , delighting to cherish , while it felt its weakness . 
-- A triumphant smile now lighted up the expressive countenance of the Moor ; he took her hand , and pressed it to his lips with haughty tenderness . 
`` Yes , too sure I feel , '' cried Victoria , unable to contend with the emotions of her heart , -- `` that for thee , Zofloya , I could at this moment resign the world , -- nay life itself ! 
`` Yet awhile , lovely Victoria ; -- and when thou quittest these solitudes '' -- he pursued , while his eyes sparkled with more than mortal fire -- `` Then art thou mine -- for ever ! '' 
Victoria ventured to look upon him , but did not speak . 
A faint exclamation of pain escaped the lips of Victoria , but looking in his countenance , illumined as it was with wild and singular expression , she attributed his violence to uncontrollable ardour , and only smiled . 
-- The Moor seized her in his arms -- then pushing her from him , surveyed her from head to foot . 
Some time had now elapsed , since Victoria had been the associate of Banditti -- the vile and lawless outcasts of society -- her constant companion and presumed lover a vile Moor , introduced originally to her notice in a menial capacity . 
Banished from the world by her crimes , and her vices , and seeking , in the depth of an almost unfathomable obscurity , safety from the punishment their due . 
In moments of solitude , which occurred but seldom , the wretched Victoria , reflecting upon her early youth , what she might have been , and what she was , cursed , -LRB- terrible to say -RRB- the mother that first had weakly indulged , and then , by her own example , tempted and destroyed her . 
In manners however , the haughty chief was considerably changed -- he seemed to have remarked , and approved the terms on which Victoria and the Moor continued to live ; ever delicately respectful in his presence , though incomparably tender at other times , was the manner of Zofloya towards her -- the more distant indeed , the more reserved and punctilious he appeared , the more did the chief unbend , and the more appear pleased ; but if by a word , or even a look , he expressed aught of tenderness or warmth , then did he become agitated , lay his hand upon his dagger , or start uneasily from his chair . 
In his voice there was a something that powerfully awakened the attention of Victoria -- his manner affected her less for its solemnity , than for other reasons , which she could not define , and she would at times have given the universe for a glance at his features . 
As for the mistress of the chief , her manners underwent a considerable change ; she behaved to Victoria with civility , sometimes even with attention , but at others , particularly in the absence of the chief , she would regard her with a look that wanted only the power of destroying . 
The Moor Zofloya occasionally accompanied a chosen troop of the bandit in their adventurous excursions among the Alps ; and Victoria could not avoid observing that when he did so , they were such generally as were esteemed most desperate , and were most in repute for their ferocity and contempt of life ; such too , as were considered by the rest capable of any enormity , and troubled neither with the weakness of compassion , qualms of conscience , or a distaste to bloodshed : they were , in fact , ruffians rather than robbers , and the blood hounds of the band . 
One gloomy evening , seated on the declivity of a mountain , Victoria reflected involuntarily upon this circumstance ; -- she loved , yet trembled at the inscrutable Zofloya -- but lost and abandoned -- seeking an object to fix on , she yielded without struggle to his fascinations . 
-- That he loved her , she believed ; yet such was the dignity , sometimes haughty repulsiveness of his manners , that even in his softest moods , she watched the turning of his eye with secret dread , fearing and dubious of what the next moment might produce . 
Never , even had she been compleatly at ease with him ; there was always a proud reserve about him , in the midst of his tenderness ; -- his softness resembled more the condescension of a superior than the devotion of a lover . 
`` Strange mysterious being , '' she mentally exclaimed , `` thy looks , thy words , thine actions , have ever to me been indefinable . 
better perhaps it were '' she added with a sigh , `` that I had never known thee . '' 
-- She paused , her ideas reverted to her past life , she retraced its black and disastrous career , -- `` Ah , mother , mother ! '' 
she cried , `` all is attributable to thee ; why did ` st thou , when in early youth , -- when my passions were strong , and my judgment weak , why did ` st thou imprudently bring before my eyes scenes to inflame my soul , and set my senses madding ? 
she added , casting herself upon the mountain , -- `` do I repent me of that which I have done ? 
She sighed deeply , then in a mournful voice resumed -- `` Here must I wait thy coming , for into the cavern I will not descend -- the gloomy silence of the chief oppresses my soul , while the now cool , now ferocious looks of his mistress , throw my senses into confusion ! '' 
She remained still prostrate on the side of the mountain , till , wearied with grievous and unavailing reflection , she closed her eyes . 
By degrees sleep stole over her faculties , and she dreamed , that gliding lightly over the highest rocks , she beheld a beautiful and seraphic form approach . 
-- When it came near , it seemed to her that her eyes could not sustain the exceeding brilliancy which shot from the countenance , the hair , and the garments of this celestial vision . 
`` Victoria ! '' 
At that instant , Victoria saw beneath the feet of the resplendent vision , the Moor Zofloya -- he lay prostrate -- stripped of his gaudy habiliments , and appearing monstrous and deformed ! 
-- Still she recognized him for Zofloya . 
-- The awful voice of the thunder solemnly sounded -- the dazzled eyes of Victoria beheld the heavens open as the spirit drew towards them ; the music of the spheres in loud choral harmony struck for an instant on her ravished ears ; her highwrought fancy could bear no more , and she awoke . 
-- Oh , no , it can not be -- I will not yield thus to a vision -- a frolic of the fancy , let loose when the senses slumber -- and for that to quit Zofloya ; -- ungrateful Victoria ! 
Scarce had the unhappy Victoria pronounced these words when , darting from a cleft in the mountain , the Moor appeared before her ! 
-- even through the dusky gloom Victoria beheld the fire which sparkled in his eyes ; his whole figure seemed more proudly dignified , more lofty than ever . 
-- If she hesitated before to adopt the conduct she was warned to pursue , that hesitation now vanished . 
-- She remembered her dream no longer ; the presence of Zofloya put reflection and consideration to flight -- he took her hand , and in a gentle voice said -- `` You would not forsake me , Victoria ! '' 
Victoria started , for this remark implied a knowledge of her thoughts . 
she said , and faintly smiled : `` You seem to read '' -- `` Your thoughts ! 
`` True , true , '' said the embarrassed Victoria -- `` but how ? '' 
-- You do not hate me , Victoria . '' 
Victoria replied not ; her thoughts were confused respecting the Moor , and again a sentiment of fear predominated over every other sensation . 
`` Come , '' he resumed , nothing checked by her silence , `` come , let us remain here no longer , but return to our home ; it is more chearful than this gloom , my Victoria , and will disperse thy melancholy . '' 
He passed his arm gently round her waist , and led her on : -- though her scruples ceased to occupy her , her heart was oppressed , and she could not speak . 
In softest language the Moor addressed her as they walked ; by degrees the sweet tones of his harmonious voice , his honied flattery , and soft attentions , produced their wonted effect : -- again the changing Victoria began to feel irresistibly rivetted to him , and the more , from the temporary gloom that had affected her in his absence . 
`` Wert thou always with me , Zofloya , '' she at length said , in a low voice , as they approached the cavern , `` black melancholy and gloomy visions would never agitate my soul . '' 
Zofloya pressed her hand . 
Victoria seated herself among them , and the Moor took his station beside her , though at a respectful distance . 
The chief looked towards them , -LRB- not unkindly -RRB- but did not speak ; his fierce companion scowled upon Victoria , to whose features exercise and agitation had given an unusual brilliancy : -- the look , as usual , caused a thousand dim remembrances to rush into the mind of Victoria ; -- for an instant she almost identified the countenance before her , but , at all events , returned the malignant glance with visible contempt and indignation . 
-- As he uttered these words , he tore off his mask , and throwing back his plumed helm , Victoria recognised -- her brother ! 
-- `` Now , wretched Victoria , '' he cried , gazing full upon her , with stern and piercing eyes , `` Dost thou know me ? 
-- Victoria was on the point of speaking , when Leonardo , rushing wildly towards the bleeding body of Ardolph , exclaimed , with a convulsive laugh , `` What ! 
Leonardo started , and appeared recalled to himself ; he clasped his hands , and tears started to his eyes ; he approached his wretched mother , and Victoria followed ; between them they raised her in their arms . 
The vindictive bravo laid his hand upon his dagger -- the action was not un-noted by Leonardo ; -- he left the feeble Laurina in the arms of Victoria , and rushing towards him , with one blow levelled him to the earth . 
-- All these tender offices were performed by Leonardo , while Victoria stood silently by , regarding her wretched mother with a stern unpitying air , or , wholly indifferent to what was passing , conversed with Zofloya in another part of the cavern . 
At length the miserable Laurina sunk into a slumber , and Leonardo , quitting then her lowly couch , rejoined his companions . 
Little more of moment was , however , related , than what the bravo had already specified ; -- still Leonardo listened with the deepest attention , making , however , no comment , while Victoria -LRB- terrible to say -RRB- seemed to exult in the awful fate that had overtaken her deeply punished mother . 
-- Victoria retired to her usual place of rest , while Leonardo , motioning his female companion to retire , approached the uneasy pillow of his mother with intent to watch beside her during the night . 
Not long had the hapless Laurina retained that unworthy love for which she had made such sacrifices ; -- the injured Loredani no more , -- her son Leonardo fled , no one knew whither , -- Victoria eloped from the confinement in which she had been placed ; -- no further obstacles , no further alarms to encounter , the passion of the ungenerous Ardolph cooled apace , nought existing , nought occurring to give it the required zest . 
About noon the following day , the wretched Laurina , -LRB- who had not , during the night , nor till the present period uttered aught but incoherent exclamations , appearing wholly unconscious , and insensible to surrounding objects -RRB- -- opened her dim eyes ; -- they fell first upon the countenance of Victoria , who happened to be standing near her , -- she gazed for a few moments -- by degrees , weakened memory resumed its power ; she identified her daughter , and faintly shrieked ! 
-- she passed her feeble hand over her eyes , then raised it trembling to heaven , and extended it towards Victoria . 
Victoria answered not , neither did she extend her hand -- but the soul of Leonardo was more noble ; -- he likewise stood beside the death-bed of his mother , though she knew him not ; -- he bent over her , and took her feeble hand , which had sunk again upon her miserable couch . 
`` Mother , '' he cried , glancing angrily towards the cruel Victoria , `` Mother , dost thou forget thy son Leonardo ? '' 
The cavern at this time contained only Victoria and Leonardo ; -- at the further end blazed a bright wood fire , but still it served not wholly to reveal its gloomy expanse to the dim sight of the expiring Laurina . 
-- Daughter I say -- oh , Victoria ! 
-- speak to thy poor mother , Victoria , '' cried the superior soul 'd Leonardo -- hast thou been in thine own conduct so faultless , and so pure , that thou should ` st deny to thy mother the assurance of love and pardon in an hour like this ? '' 
-- that is the very point , '' exclaimed Victoria , with a wild frightful laugh , -- `` that which I have been , my mother made me ! 
-- Mother , '' she pursued , addressing the anguished Laurina -- `` why did ` st thou desert thy children , to follow the seducer , who hath justly rewarded thee ? 
The fierce countenance of Victoria relaxed into a smile of contempt , and she remained immoveable . 
Laurina still gasped in the arms of her son ; convulsive shudderings seized her shattered frame ; -- her eyes , fixed on Leonardo , beheld his noble features , irradiated with filial love and tenderness . 
-- In the agony of approaching death , she could only grasp his hand , but the grasp spoke eloquent to his heart the anguished gratitude which filled her own ! 
-- once more she turned her piteous looks upon Victoria , who unfeelingly regarded her pallid countenance -LRB- rendered doubly pallid by the blood stained bandage which bound her wounded forehead , -RRB- but spoke not . 
exclaimed Victoria from the opposite side of the couch -- `` how can ` st thou weakly lament over the death of one who hath made thee what thou now art -- the vile chief of a band of robbers ? 
No , Victoria , thy base mind was naturally evil ; -- a mother 's example might have checked thy depravity , but could never have rendered thee virtuous ! '' 
`` But for her , '' gloomily returned Victoria , `` the accursed pleasures of illicit love would never have tempted me to sin -- she first corrupted and allured my mind -- her example opened wide the flood gates of passion in my soul -- from its resistless turbulence , bearing down all before it , first came my crimes , if crimes they are ; and -- But who art thou that presumest to reproach me ? 
The horrible Victoria burst into a loud laugh , and flew to the extremity of the cavern . 
At this juncture the figure of Zofloya presented itself to Victoria , at the entrance of the cavern , he was unperceived by Leonardo , and beckoned to her with his finger ; she flew joyfully towards him : -- the Moor received her with a smile , but strange meaning appeared on his features , and he pressed his finger on his lip , to enjoin her silence . 
Victoria spoke not , for to Zofloya she was all yielding and obedience . 
He gently took her arm , and led her from the cavern ; they proceeded in silence till they gained the mountain , when Zofloya , desiring her to be seated on a rugged projection , and taking his station beside her , spoke thus : -- `` Victoria , thy brother hath offended thee , but ere long thy revenge will be complete ! 
`` I remember him well , '' answered Victoria . 
eagerly enquired Victoria , with her usual regard for self , `` must I fall likewise , Zofloya ? '' 
Victoria durst not reply . 
Zofloya then caused her to return to the cavern , but , to her infinite dismay , did not himself follow . 
At the usual hour , still without having seen him , she was compelled to retire to repose , indifferent respecting the fate of others , but tormented with selfish terrors for her own . 
At this time the cavern contained only an inconsiderable number of banditti , their chief Leonardo , his mistress , and Victoria , who sat beside her , trembling with apprehension of danger , and dismayed at the non-appearance of Zofloya , whom she began to fear intended to abandon her in the common ruin . 
He approached his mistress , who , more surprized than intimidated , remained sitting beside Victoria . 
The name in a moment electrified Victoria -- she beheld herself seated next a dire foe , surrounded by death and danger ! 
-- `` I , -- but first , thou infamous Victoria ! 
-- Then springing on the defenceless Victoria , she would have plunged the weapon in her bosom , when suddenly between them stood the Moor Zofloya ! 
`` Victoria is mine , '' he cried in a voice of thunder . 
we are lost , '' whispered Victoria to him in accents of alarm . 
Zofloya , then passing his arm round the waist of Victoria , stepped back a few paces . 
-- Even Victoria , though supported by the arm of Zofloya , yielded to the terrible impressions excited by this scene of dismay , -- the reiterated shouts of the soldiery , of `` An explosion ! 
and the feeling she had of her own inevitable danger ; -- her senses became overpowered , confused horrors danced in her sight , her eyes closed , and , unable to preserve her fleeting faculties , she swooned -- On recovering , she beheld herself in the midst of a spacious plain , reclining in the arms of Zofloya , and encompassed by myriads of guards -- she gazed wildly around -- scarcely could she believe that still she existed ! 
she cried , in a voice of horror , -- `` where are we ? 
cried the agonised Victoria . 
More swift than a point of time was the transition : -- she beheld herself no longer in the midst of armed soldiers , but on the summit of a mighty rock ! 
-- Zofloya led her to its uttermost brink ; extreme terror filled the soul of Victoria , but she could not speak -- Involuntarily she cast downwards her eyes , -- a dizzying precipice , that made the senses stagger , yawned at her feet ; far , far in its bottomless abyss , battled the deafening cataract , which , from the summit of the adjacent rock , tumbled a broad tremendous stream , till broken mid-way in its course by some rude projection , it divided into numberless dancing sprays , and branches of foam , uniting again at a considerable distance beneath , and thundering as it fell with resistless fury down the rugged sides of the precipice , whose hollow bosom sternly re-echoed to the mighty sounds . 
Victoria trembled , for the spirit of the beauteous Lilla seemed to rise to her view from the depth of the frightful abyss ! 
-- Victoria remembered , that for her she had felt no pity . 
The images of the dying Berenza , of the destroyed Henriquez , glided before her on the rocky steep -- remorse filled her guilty soul , but filled it too late , for it came accompanied by despair ! 
-- In utterable anguish she gazed around , and wildly clasped her hands . 
`` Now then , Victoria ! '' 
cried the Moor , but not in the gentle voice in which he had been wont to address her -- `` Now then , thou art emancipated from falling ruins , from hostile guards , from fear of shame , and an ignominious death , -- already hast thou witnessed my power , therefore thou knowest what I am capable of . 
answered the terrified Victoria , `` am I not already in thy power -- can I chuse then but be thine ? '' 
-- but yet I can not , Victoria , compel thee , nor , so dearly do I covet thee , will thy forced compliance satisfy me ; -- say then at once -- wilt thou unequivocally give thyself to me , heart , and body , and soul ? '' 
answered Victoria , rejoiced at even the semblance of returning softness in the Moor , in whose power she so completely beheld herself . 
`` Yet awhile , fair Victoria ! 
answered the trembling Victoria . 
replied the Moor , bursting into a loud laugh , and fixing on her his terrible eyes , from whose fiery glances Victoria turned enhorrored ! 
Victoria raised her eyes -- horrible was the sight which met them ! 
-- no traces of the beautiful Zofloya remained , -- but in his place , stripped , as in her dream , of his gaudy habiliments , stood a figure , fierce , gigantic , and hideous to behold ! 
-- Terror and despair seized the soul of Victoria ; she shrieked , and would have fallen from the dizzying heighth , had not his hand , who appeared Zofloya no longer , seized her with a grasp of iron by the neck ! 
-- As he spoke , he grasped more firmly the neck of the wretched Victoria -- with one push he whirled her headlong down the dreadful abyss ! 
-- as she fell , his loud demoniac laugh , his yells of triumph , echoed in her ears , and a mangled corse , she was received into the foaming waters below ! 
