Ben Somers came early , suffering from a fit of nonchalance , to the disgust of several young men , standard beaux , who regarded him with an impertinence which delighted him . 
`` Here comes , '' he said , ``` a daughter of the gods , divinely tall and most divinely fair . ' '' 
Helen was there , but his eyes did not rest upon her , but upon Charles , whom I saw for the first time that evening . 
`` I must be called Ben Somers by you ; and may I call you Cassandra , and Helen ? '' 
`` Say , '' said Ben Somers , in a low voice `` that you will walk with me . '' 
`` Charles , what did Ben Somers do at Harvard ? '' 
`` He was in a night-fight , and he sometimes got drunk ; it is a family habit . '' 
`` Pray , why did you inquire about him ? '' 
`` From the interest I feel in him . '' 
`` You like him then ? '' 
`` I detest him ; do you ? '' 
`` I like him . '' 
Ben Somers called at noon , to inquire the reason of my absence from school , and left a book for me . 
It was the poems he had spoken of . 
I invited Ben Somers and Helen to spend with us the only evening he staid . 
His spirits were not as buoyant as usual , and I felt in undefinable anxiety , which I did not mention . 
When he said that mother was more abstracted than ever , he sighed . 
I asked him how many years he thought I must waste ; eighteen had already gone for nothing . 
Bitter , bitter , '' he said , calmly , as if he thought of some object , now incapable of exciting the hatred he spoke of . 
As he kissed me , and we stood face to face , I recognized my likeness to him . 
But an overpowering impulse seized me to speak to him of Charles . 
When he mentioned him I looked out of the window , and saw Ben Somers coming into the yard . 
As he entered , Alice gave father a meaning look , which was not lost upon me , and which induced him to observe Ben closely . 
On the way , he touched me , making a sign towards Ben . 
asked Ben , on our way back . 
He turned pale when he said this , but went on . 
Ben Somers , and our Rosville beaux , were of course to be there , all in uniform , except Ben , who preferred the dress of a gentleman , he said , -- silk stockings , pumps , and a white cravat . 
Mrs. Judge Ryder sailed by , on Ben Somers 's arm . 
`` No , ma , '' and she passed on , Ben giving a faint cough , for my benefit . 
When Ben Somers heard this attack on you , he told them that your lace was an heir-loom . 
Here he is . '' 
Mr. Parker took her away for the next quadrille ; Ben Somers went in pursuit of a place where there was a seat . 
The quadrille was over ; I was engaged for the next , and he had not come back . 
I saw nothing of him till the country dance before supper . 
He was at the foot of the long line , opposite a pretty girl in blue , looking very solemn and stately . 
I took off the glove from the hand which wore the new diamond , and held it up , expecting him to look my way soon . 
Its flash caught his eyes , as they roamed up and down , and , as I again expected , he left his place and came behind me . 
wiping his face with his handkerchief . 
At supper , I saw Ben Somers , still with the pretty girl in blue ; but he came to my chair to ask me if I did not think she was a pretty toy for a man to play with . 
Ben Somers disappeared ; no one knew where he had gone . 
The Ryders were in consternation , for he was an inmate of the family , since he had gone into Judge Ryder 's office , six weeks before . 
He returned , however , with a new overcoat trimmed with fur , the same as that with which my new cloak was trimmed . 
A great snow storm began the day of his return , and blocked us in doors for several days , and we had permanent sleighing afterwards . 
I found Ben Somers with her , who begged me to take a seat in his sleigh . 
`` She is really going , '' Ben answered for me . 
`` The night is splendid , '' Ben remarked . 
he asked her . 
Helen and Amelia were packed on the back seat , in a Buffalo robe , while Ben and I sat in the shelter of the driver 's box , wrapped in another . 
Ben , voluble and airy , enlivened us by his high spirits . 
The party grew noisy again , except Ben , who had not broken the silence into which he fell as soon as he saw Charles . 
The mulled wine stood before him untouched . 
Ben ordered more wine , and sent a glass full to him . 
Taking it from the boy who brought it , I gave it to him . 
Barely tasting it , he set the glass down , and leaning his arm on the table , turned his face to me , shielding it with his hand from the gaze of those about us . 
``` I drink the cup of a costly death , ' '' Ben hummed , as he sauntered along by us , hands in his pockets -- the last in the room , except us two . 
And he offered him his glass of wine . 
Ben took it , and with his thumb and finger snapped it off at the stem , and tipped the wine over Charles 's hand . 
`` I know Veronica , '' said Ben . 
What a barrier his expression of contempt made between her and me ! 
`` Cassandra , '' urged Ben in a gentle voice , `` come with me ; come away . '' 
He hesitated , and then obeyed , turning at the door , and again urging , `` Come . '' 
And he snatched the handkerchief . 
But he looked agitated , and I felt dizzy . 
He opened the window softly , and took from the sill a handfull of snow , which I swallowed , and which revived me . 
He touched my hand ; I opened it , and his closed over mine . 
A heavy throb went through all my frame , and I swayed towards him ; but he held me from him , with his firm grasp . 
`` Go now , '' he said , and springing to the window , threw it up , and jumped out . 
The boy came in with a table cloth on his arm , and behind him Ben . 
Alice asked , when we went in `` He has just left us , '' Ben answered ; `` looking after his horses probably . '' 
`` You were out there with Morgeson and Ben Somers , '' she whispered ; `` something has occurred ; what is it ? '' 
`` You shall have some '' `` Ask Ben to order it . '' 
Ben Somers about this time took a fit of industry , and made a plan for what he called a well regulated life , averring that he should always abide by it . 
He weighed his bread and meat , ate so many ounces a day , and slept watch and watch , as he nautically termed it . 
I guessed that the meaning of his plan , was to withdraw from the self-chosen post of censor . 
His only alienation was an occasional disappearance for a few days . 
I never asked him where he went , and had never spoken to him concerning his mysterious remark about having been in Surrey . 
Neither had I heard anything of his being there from father . 
Once he told me that his father had explained the marriage of old Locke Morgeson ; but that it was not clear to him that we were at all related . 
I applied diligently to my reading , emulating Ben Somers in the regularity of my habits , and took long walks daily -- a mode of exercise I had adopted since I had ceased my rides with Charles . 
As I was returning I met Ben Somers . 
When he saw me he threw his cap into the air , with the information that he had done with his plans , and had ordered an indigestible supper , in honor of his resolve . 
As people had truly remarked , he could afford to be eccentric . 
He was tired of it ; he had money enough to do without Law . 
This was the first time that he had referred to Charles since that memorable night . 
Trifling as his words were , they broke into the foundations of my stagnant will , and set the tide flowing once more . 
He stopped a moment . 
`` Not like yours , in the least , '' he continued . 
I have an idea he will not remain here long . '' 
`` He is an amusing young man , '' Alice remarked . 
How was Ben Somers ? 
I ran round to the front piazza , just as Ben Somers turned out of the lane , and called him . 
`` I have wandered all over Rosville since sunset , '' he said , `` and at last struck upon that lane . 
he asked . 
he spoke quickly . 
`` She always does , '' he answered . 
A door near us opened , and Ben Somers and young Parker looked in . 
Parker went back when he saw me ; but Ben came in . 
He knelt down by me ; put his arm round me , and said , `` Poor girl ! '' 
Alice raised her tearstained face , looking at me curiously , when he said this . 
Ben rose quickly , and went to the window . 
Ben ! '' 
Taking me in his arms , he whispered `` Leave him forever body and soul . 
He was a bad man ; I am glad he is dead . '' 
`` Chut ; drop the commonplace , for once , Ben . '' 
He put me back in bed , without hurting my arm , arranged my hair , and the pillow , and gave me drink , without the least noise . 
I asked him to find them . 
He made no reply , but stooped down and kissed me tenderly , and went out All this time Miss Prior had slept the sleep of the just ; but he had barely gone when she started up , and said , `` Did you call , my dear ? '' 
`` How is Ben ? '' 
`` He has been here often . 
How strange it was , that to him alone Veronica gave her hand , when they met ! 
Indeed , she gave him both her hands . '' 
`` And he ? '' 
`` Took them , bowing over them , 'till I thought he was n't coming up again . 
Ben Somers went with us to Boston , and staid at The Bromfield with us . 
In the morning he disappeared , and when he returned had an emerald ring , which he begged me to wear , and tried to put it on the finger , where he had seen the diamond . 
I put it back in its box , thanking him , and saying it must be stored with the farewell needle-books and pin-cushions . 
Aunt Merce slipped out , with an affectation of not having heard him . 
We laughed , and Ben was glad that I could laugh . 
`` I shall leave Rosville , '' were Ben 's last words . 
Her eyes were near together , but large ; and , as Ben Somers said , they were the most singular eyes that were ever upon earth They tormented me . 
Neither did I hear from Ben Somers . 
He was probably investing in another plan ; of its result I should hear . 
Before Helen went , Ben wrote me that he was going to India . 
By the time the letter reached me he should be gone . 
Would I bear him in remembrance ? 
He would not forget me , and promised me an Indian idol . 
In eighteen months he expected to be at home again ; sooner perhaps . 
P.S. Would I give his true regards to my sister ? 
The property would be divided according to his grandfather 's will , before his return , and he wanted to be out of the way for sundry reasons , which he hoped to tell me some day . 
Helen laughed , and said ` Unstable as water ; ' but Veronica looked displeased ; she closed her eyes as if to recal him to mind , and asked Helen abruptly if she did not like him . 
I was dull and sad after I had received his letter ; without reason , of course , so I ascribed my dullness to some personal reflections which I made at the time . 
I opened the parlor door softly , and saw Ben Somers in an easy chair , basking before a glowing fire , with a luminous face set towards Veronica , who was near him , holding a small screen between her and the fire . 
She wore boots the color of her dress ; Ben was looking at them . 
Ben started up , and met me with extended hands . 
Ben stood before me ; his eyes , full of sharp rays , pierced me through , and rested on the three thread-like scars which traversed my cheek , and which were more visible than usual , from the effect of cold . 
A sorrowful look crossed his face ; he took my hand and kissed it , and I kissed his in turn . 
`` My sister , Adelaide , has sent for you , Cassandra , '' said Ben , `` to visit her . 
He looked at her curiously . 
`` Young woman , '' said Ben , `` do you call that ferocious dish meat ? '' 
With the most dégagé air in the world , Ben suffered nothing to escape his attention , not even my amusement at the unconsciousness they felt of his observation , except Fanny , who , aware of it , watched him sharply . 
Veronica told Ben Helen 's opinion of him ; he reddened slightly , and said that such a sage could not be contradicted . 
When father remarked , that the opinions of women were whimsical , Fanny gave an audible sniff , which made Ben give her his attention , and father exchanged a look with her . 
When Ben made a show of going , we asked him to stay longer . 
He said ` Yes , ' so cordially , that we laughed . 
But it hurt me to see that he had forgotten all about my going to Belem . 
`` I like Surrey so much , '' he said , `` and you all , I have a fancy that I am in the Hebrides , in Magnus Troil 's dwelling ; it is so wild here , so naive . 
It stormed the first day of his visit . 
We rendevouzed in the parlor , which had assumed an easy air , from the manner in which Ben disposed chairs , cushions , and books . 
Veronica played to him , or they read together ; while thus engaged I withdrew to be idle elsewhere . 
`` Come and sing , '' said Ben . 
He dropped the curtain across the window , and sat down by me at the piano . 
She glided to the flower-basket , broke a rose-bud from its stalk , and mutely offered it to him . 
Whether he took it , I know not ; but he rose up beside me , like a dark cloud , and my eyes followed him . 
He sank down before her , and she clasped her hands round his head , and kissed his hair . 
Ben had pushed back the curtain , and was staring into the darkness , and Veronica was walking to and fro on the rug . 
Ben turned to speak , but she put her hand over his mouth , and said , `` Hush ! '' 
Ben and I started for a walk on the shore . 
We were half way to the light-house before he asked why it was that Veronica would not come with us . 
Shecould never go , '' and he began to skip pebbles in the water . 
I love her passionately , '' and he threw a pebble farther than he had yet ; `` but she is so pure , so delicate , that when I approach her , in spite of my besottedness , my love grows lambent . 
I fancied that the expression Ben regarded her with might be the Bellevue Pickersgill expression , it was so different from any I had seen . 
There was a haughty curiosity in his face ; as she passed near him , he looked into her eyes , and saw that strange cast in them , which made their sight so far off . 
he asked . 
The tone of his voice attracted mother 's regards ; an intelligent glance was exchanged , and then her eyes sought mine . 
Ben was chatting with father over the fire ; he stretched out his hand to her , with so firm and assured an air , and looked so noble , that I felt a pang of admiration for him . 
She laid her hand in his a moment , passed on to the piano , and began to play divinely , drawing him to her side . 
Whenwe went to Boston we took a new hotel , as Ben had advised , deserting the old Bromfield for the Tremont . 
`` Charles Dickens is here , sir , '' said the waiter , who knew Ben . 
`` Then , '' said Ben , `` our hunters are up from Belem . 
`` I 'll look them up , '' he said to us ; but he returned soon , and begged us not to look at Dickens , if we had a chance . 
Father being out in pursuit of a cigar , Ben asked Veronica what she would do , while he was in Belem . 
`` Father , '' she said , as he entered with a theatre bill , `` can I marry this friend of Cassy 's ? '' 
`` Having known Cassandra so long , sir , '' began Ben , but was interrupted by Veronica 's exclaiming , `` We do not know each other at all . 
she said , giving Ben a delicious smile . 
`` I promise too , Veronica , '' heaven dawning in his eyes . 
We declined , but Ben signified his willingness to accompany him . 
Taking a cab , we turned into Norfolk street , at the head of which , Ben said , a mile distant , was his father 's house . 
Down the paved court of the opposite house , a coach , pulled by two fat horses , clattered , and as the coach turned , we saw two old ladies inside , highly dressed , bowing and smiling at Ben . 
`` Hundred thousand a piece , '' I echoed in an anguish of admiration , which made father laugh , and Ben scowl . 
I heard Ben 's voice in remonstrance ; then a lazy laugh from velvet coat , who gave the dog a cut , which made him bound . 
Ben , untying him , was overwhelmed with caresses . 
he said . 
The likeness to Ben , turned my suspicion into certainty , that they were brothers His disposition , I thought , must be lovely , judging from the episode with `` Rash . '' 
Where 's Ben , to introduce us properly ? '' 
`` Here , mother , '' he said , behind her , followed by the dog . 
`` I have a short time to stay , '' looking at his watch , and rising . 
Ben had managed nicely in the affair of my invitation to Belem . 
He expatiated upon Ben 's long , ungratified wish for a visit from me , and thanked father for complying with it . 
The door opened , and Ben 's brother entered , with downcast eyes . 
Advancing to the foot-board of the bed , he leaned his chin on its edge , looked at his father , and in a remarkably clear , ringing voice , said : `` The check . '' 
`` Desmond , '' said Ben in a low voice , `` you do not see Mr. Morgeson , and Miss Morgeson . 
`` Have you been remiss , Ben , '' said his father , affectionately , `` in not bringing her also ? '' 
`` Why , Ben , '' she said , `` you were not expected . 
`` Now , '' said Ben , with father 's hat in his hand , `` the time is up . '' 
Adelaide was at the door to take courteous leave of him , and Mrs. Somers bowed from the top of the stairs , revealing a pair of large ankles , whose base rested in a pair of shabby , pudgy slippers . 
When Ben arrived , Murphy set the dishes before him , and Adelaide began to talk , in a lively , brilliant way . 
I dare say , Ben never spoke of me to you . 
`` They were fine once , '' said Ben , who appeared from a dark corner , `` but are faded now . 
She is a terrible aristocrat , '' he continued in a low voice , `` fixed in the ideas embedded in the Belem institutions , which only move backwards . 
`` Ben is very polite , do n't you think so ? '' 
Ben was not the same in Belem , I saw at once , and no longer wondered at its influence , or at the vacillating nature of his plans and pursuits . 
`` We do not have your Surrey suppers , '' Ben remarked . 
his mother asked . 
Ben 's eyes looked violent , and he bit his lips . 
They like us , too , Ben ; we are the children of Hindoos , also -- superior to the rest of the world . 
he said . 
`` We shall have no party until some one has been given to our young friend , Ben . '' 
Ben and I visited his father , who asked questions relative to the temperature , the water , and the dietetic qualities of Surrey . 
He was affable , but there was no nearness in his affability . 
He skated on the ice of appearances , and that was his vocation in his family . 
He fulfilled it well , but it was a strain sometimes . 
His family broke the ice now and then , which must have made him plunge into the depths of reality . 
I learned to respect his courage , bad as his cause was . 
Marrying Bellevue Pickersgill for her money , he married his master , and was endowed only with the privilege of settling her taxes . 
Simon Pickersgill , her father , tied up the main part of his money for his grandchildren . 
It was to be divided among them when the youngest son should arrive at the age of twenty-one -- an event which took place , I supposed , while Ben was on his way to India . 
Ben , from the opposite side of the table , addressed me by a look , which enlightened me . 
His voyage to India was useless , as the property would stand for twenty-one years more , lacking some months , unless Providence interposed . 
`` He is such a martyr . '' 
`` My dear Bellevue , you are worn out with your devotion to him ; when have you taken the air ? '' 
Miss Hiticutt chatted herself out , giving us an invitation to tea , for any day , including Ben , and Miss Ann , who had not been visible since breakfast . 
She must have a holiday ; besides , pa needed her ; she alone could take care of him , after all . 
Ben found a seat on a bunch of books , pleased to see us together . 
`` This is a horrid hole , '' he said . 
`` It is only Des , in his usual afternoon trim , '' said Ben . 
He pushed open the door , thrusting in his head . 
This region is sacred to Chaos and old Night ; '' striking the panels , first one , and then the other , with the tassels of his dressing-gown . 
No one answered him . 
Adelaide counted a row of books , and Ben whistled . 
`` Damn you , Ben , '' he said in a languid voice ; `` you never seem bored . 
and the woman who had brought in the baby the day of the dinner , laid her hands on him , and pulled him away . 
`` Sarah will never give him up , '' said Ben . 
I think he is a wretch , '' turning over the leaves of a book with her beautiful hand ; such a hand as I had just seen beating the door -- such a hand as clasped its fellow in Ben 's hair . 
But Ben said , `` You are thinking . '' 
broke in Ben . 
Adelaide coolly said , after he had gone , that he was very visionary : predicting changes that could not be , and determined to bring them about . 
`` Ben 's hospitality is genuine . 
He is like pa . 
Do you not know , too , that Ben 's friendship is very sincere -- very strong ? '' 
Ben , who was rolling and unrolling his mother 's yarn , laughed till the tears ran , but Major Millard looked uneasy , as if he expected to be served a-la-Hiticutt by the satirical Ann after his departure . 
As Ben stretched himself on his sofa with an air of relief , Desmond emerged from the dark , and stood behind him , leaning against a column , with his hands in his coat pockets , and his eyes searchingly fixed upon me . 
Ben turning his head in my direction , sprang up so suddenly that I started ; but Desmond 's eyes did not move till Ben confronted him , then he gave him a haughty smile , and begged him to take his repose again . 
`` Some old song , '' said Ben . 
`` Late or not , you shall stay for a game , '' she said , as Ben came in , hat in hand , declaring he had been scouting for us since dark . 
I was in the shadow of the sideboard ; Ben stood against it . 
he asked in a low voice . 
`` Play with me , Ben , '' called Mrs. Hepburn . 
`` You know that sherry , Ben , '' and Mrs. Hepburn nodded him towards a decanter . 
Ben drew my arm in his , and the girls walked rapidly before us . 
he asked me . 
Ann derisively apostrophized him , under her breath , while Ben unlocked the court gate , and went in after Rash , who came out quietly , and we proceeded . 
he asked . 
Ben followed me . 
`` I hope Veronica 's letter will come to-morrow , '' he said with a groan . 
`` Ben , your native air is deleterious . '' 
`` They pretend to have a Murillo here ; let us go and find it , '' said Ben . 
Ben retired , and Mr. Munster began to talk volubly , with wandering eyes , repeating words he was in danger of forgetting . 
He was handsomer than Ben , his complexion darker , and his hair black . 
There was a flush across his cheek bones , as if he had once blushed , and the blush had settled . 
The color of his eyes I could not determine . 
As if to resolve my doubt , he came towards us ; they were a deep violet , and the lids were fringed with long black lashes . 
He stood beside me , and twisted his heavy mustache . 
`` Ned , '' he said abruptly , `` you must resign Miss Morgeson . 
`` You are my debtor , but -- Ben is coming . '' 
`` You must find all this very dull , Cassandra , '' Ben said , as he joined us . 
I got up mechanically , as Ben directed . 
`` I shall take the south-west , then , '' he replied , nodding to a tall gentleman who passed with Adelaide . 
When we left him , he was observing a carved oak chair , in occult sympathy with the grain of the wood . 
asked Ben . 
`` Finish your jelly , '' said Ben . 
inquired Ben . 
Ben had received a letter from Veronica , informing him that letter-writing was a kind of composition she was not fond of . 
He must come to her , and then there would be no writing . 
Her letter exasperated his love . 
His tenacious mind , lying in wait to close upon hers , was irritated by her simple , and candid behavior . 
I could give him no consolation ; nor did I care to . 
I was glad that his feelings for her weakened his penetration in regard to me . 
When he roused at the expression which he saw Desmond fix upon me the night that Major Millard was there , I expected a rehearsal from him of watchfulness and suspicion ; but no symptom appeared . 
Ben , always a favorite with his father , pursued him , rode with him , and made visits of pleasure or business , with a latent object , which kept kept him on the alert . 
`` Who returns with you -- Ben ? 
He likes piloting . '' 
`` I hope he will ; I came here for him . '' 
`` I know , '' he said , `` that you would not have come , had there been any sentiment between you and Ben . '' 
`` My sister , whom Ben loves . '' 
`` Ben love a sister of yours ? 
And how came you to meet him ? '' 
Can you help him ? '' 
Ben 's allowance is smaller than mine . 
He is easy about money ; therefore he is pa 's favorite . '' 
Have you influenced Ben to help himself ? '' 
I hurried along , for it was dark , and saw Ben on the steps , before us . 
he asked `` Yes , with me , '' answered Desmond . 
Ben asked . 
The babyis sick ; '' and he looked hard at Desmond . 
`` I know what you are at , Ben , '' said Desmond . 
`` To-night , '' Ben said , `` I am going to tell pa . '' 
`` You thrive in it , '' he said , with a spice of irritation in his voice . 
There need be no apprehension.She should say so to Desmond and Ben ; and would post a letter to her brother in unknown parts . 
The quiet , formal evening was a pleasant relief , although I was troubled with a desire to inform Mrs. Somers of Ben 's engagement , for the sake of exasperating her . 
`` Ben is going back with me . '' 
Ben stood on the threshold . 
I pointed to his mother . 
She looked uneasy , and stepping forward , put her hand on his arm ; but he shook her off . 
`` You may well call me a fool , Cassandra , for bringing you here , '' he said in a bitter voice ; `` besides calling me cruel for subjecting you to these ordeals . 
What is it , madam ? '' 
And he led her out swiftly . 
Ben saw this movement , and an expression of pain passed across his face . 
Mr. Somers took up the remark of Mrs. Somers , where she had left it , and expatiated on it till breakfast was over , so courteously and so ramblingly , that I was convinced the affair Ben had at heart had been revealed . 
He invited me to go to church , and he spent the whole of the evening in the parlor ; and although Desmond hovered near me all day , and all the evening , we had no opportunity of speaking to each other . 
They were in Amiens three years '' `` There are Desmond and Ben ; they are walking in the street we are passing . '' 
Ben is a prig , and preaches to Des . '' 
Desmond was pale , and laughed ; -- but Ben was red , and looked angry . 
Our conversation was interrupted by Ben , whom I had not seen since the day before . 
He had been out of town , transacting some business for his father . 
`` Faithful and good Ben , -- do you pass a sufficiently strict examination upon yourself ? 
But what has come over Des , lately ? 
`` He is going backward , may be , to some course he omitted in his career with you fellows . 
`` He 'll not find much reason for it , when he arrives , '' Mr. Devereaux said . 
`` I have changed my mind , '' said Ben , `` about going home with you . '' 
Yes , -- I must , '' he said excitedly ; `` but to-morrow we will talk more about it . 
There was a tap on the door ; it was Ben 's . 
I fell back a step , and he came in . 
`` Will you bring Cassandra to the supper room ? '' 
And he put my arm in his . 
But Ben did not go ; he fumbled for his handkerchief to wipe his forehead , on which stood beads of sweat . 
`` Allons , Ben , '' I said . 
`` If you are to accompany me , Ben , '' I said , `` now is the time . '' 
`` Will you bring him into our Paradise ? '' 
Mr. Somers and Ben were already on the walk , waiting for me ; so I went through the ceremony of bidding good bye -- a ceremony performed with so much cheerfulness on all sides , that it was an occasion for well-bred merriment , and I made my exit , as I should have made it in a genteel comedy , but with a bitter feeling of mortification , because , finding it impossible to break down their artificial , wilful imperturbability , with any genuineness , I was forced to oppose them with manners copied after their own . 
Mr. Somers dispersed it by asking Ben to go out on some errand . 
That it was a pretext , I knew by Ben 's expression ; therefore , when he had gone , I turned to Mr. Somers an attentive face . 
Doubtless , he went on , I had comprehended the erratic tendency in Ben ` scharacter , good and honorable as he was , but impressive and visionary . 
`` Ben has disappointed me ; I must confess that . '' 
Provided she marries him the family programme will be changed . 
You must lop him from the family tree . '' 
`` It may be absurd , '' and he looked over his spectacle tops , as if he had found the remark in his paper , `` for parents to oppose the marriages their children choose to make , and I beg you to understand that I may oppose , not resistBen . 
You know very well , '' and he dropped the paper in a burst of irritation and candor , `` that the devil will be to pay with Mrs Somers , who has a right of dictation in the affair . 
I must say that Ben is mistaking himself again . 
I looked upon him with a more friendly countenance . 
The one rude word he had spoken had a wonderful effect , after the surprise of it was over . 
Real eyes appeared in his face , and a truthful accent pervaded his voice . 
I think he was beginning to think that he might confide his perplexities to me on other subjects , when Ben returned . 
As it was , a more friendly feeling had been established between us . 
He said in a confidential tone to Ben , as if we were partners in some guilty secret , `` You must mention it to your mother ; indeed you must . '' 
`` You have been speaking with Cassandra , in reference to her sister , '' he answered indifferently . 
Ben elevated his eyebrows . 
`` I will call you ; so you may sleep untroubled . '' 
It contains our apologies for not accompanying you , and one or two allusions , '' making an attempt to wink at Ben , which failed , his eyes being unused to such an undignified style of humor . 
He excused himself from going to the station on account of the morning air , and Ben and I proceeded . 
I opened it in the coach , and seeing flowers , was about to take them out to show Ben , when I caught sight of the ribbon which tied them -- a piece of one of my collar knots I had not missed . 
`` Not I. Go , and write Ben . 
Make excuses for my negligence towards you , about his letter . 
Tell him to come . 
The silent and serene currents which flow from souls like Veronica 's , and Ben 's , whose genius is not of the heart , refuse to enter a nature so turbulent as mine . 
`` Will it suit him to vegetate in Surrey ? 
`` He has no ambition . '' 
Mr. Somers writes that Ben will have three thousand a year ; but that the disposal , at present , is not in his power . '' 
Ben has not begun life yet . 
`` He is the best of them , his mother , the worst . '' 
`` He does not require a practically-minded woman . '' 
Veronica told me that Ben was coming in a week . 
`` Ben is a good man ; but for all that , I feel like blind Sampson , just now . 
Could I lay my hands on the pillars , which support the temple he has built , I would wrench them from their foundation , and surprise him , by toppling the roof on his head . '' 
When he came , Surrey looked its best , for it was June ; and though the winds were chilly , the grass was grown , and the orchard leaves were crowding off the blossoms . 
One morning we stood on the landing stair -- Ben , Veronica , and myself , looking from the window . 
`` I like Surrey better and better , '' he said ; `` the atmosphere suits me . '' 
Verry looked with delight at him , and then at me . 
`` Will you go ? '' 
I happened to look back , on the way . 
His arm was round Verry , but he was looking after me . 
`` Now then , '' I said . 
He took a note from his pocket and gave it to me . 
I broke its seal , and read ; `` Tell Ben , before you can reflect upon it , that Iwill go abroad , and then repent of it , -- as I shall . 
``` Tell Ben , ' '' I repeated aloud , ``` that Iwill go abroad . 
I love him , as a mature woman may love , -- once , Ben , only once ; the fire-tipped arrows rarely pierce soul and sense , blood and brain . '' 
`` Men are different ; he is different . '' 
`` You have already spoken for me , and , I suppose , you will for him . '' 
Will you go , Ben ? '' 
Whenhe left Surrey , I sent no message , or letter , by him , and he asked for none . 
`` Tut , Ben gave it to you . 
It is a kind of housekeepish present ; did he add scissors and needle-case ? '' 
There was no visitor with us ; there had been none besides Ben , since mother died . 
Ben had sailed for Switzerland . 
In September a letter came from Ben , which promised a return by the last of October . 
I begged him to keep our house till Ben should return . 
All the houses he owned , lots , carriages , horses , domestic stock , the fields lying round our house -- were sold . 
When he began to sell , the fury of retrenchment seized him , and he laid out a life of self-denial for us three . 
October had gone , and we had not heard from Ben . 
At last he came -- to Veronica first . 
He gave a deep breath of delight when he stood again on the hearth-rug , before our now unwonted parlor fire . 
The sight of his ruddy face , vigorous form , and gay voice , made me as merry , as the attendants of a feast are , when they inhale the odor of the viands they carry , hear the gurgle of the wine they pour , and echo the laughter of the guests . 
There was much to tell that astonished him , but he could not be depressed ; everything must be arranged to suit us . 
He would buy the house , provided he could pay for it in instalments . 
Did I know that his mother had docked his allowance , as soon as she knew that he would marry Verry ? 
He had declined the extra allowance , and then accepted it , to offer him -- Ben . 
All he could call his was fifteen hundred a year . 
Would we , he asked father , and allow him to be an inmate ? 
Must we have anybody here , Ben ? '' 
The very day Ben went to Belem one of father 's outstanding ships arrived . 
Ben Pickersgill Somers and Veronica Morgeson were ` published . ' 
She went once to Milford in the time , and bought a purple angola rug , which she put before her arm-chair , and two small silver cups , with covers ; in one was a perfume which Ben liked , but the other was empty . 
Alice Morgeson , and Helen with her baby , arrived the night before ; and Ben and Mr. Somers drove from Milford early in the afternoon . 
Ben had been extremely silent since his arrival , and disposed to reading . 
I looked over his shoulder once , and saw that it was `` Scott 's Life of Napoleon '' he perused ; and an hour after , being obliged to ask him a question , saw him still at the same page . 
`` Do you know any man , who is like Ben ? 
Or was it he whom I have just left in the dark world of sleep ? '' 
`` I know his brother , who is like him , but dark in complexion ; and his hair is black . '' 
`` His hair is not black . '' 
`` It was a strange place where we met ; curious , dusty old trees grew about it . 
He was cutting the back of one with a dagger , and the pieces he carved out fell to the ground , as if they were elastic . 
` Are you Ben transformed ? ' 
I asked , for he had his features , his air , though he was a swarthy , spare man , with black , curly hair , dashed with grey ; but he pricked my arm with his dagger , and said , ` Go on . ' 
now tell her , '' he whispered , turning me gently from him , with a hand precisely like Ben 's . '' 
I sent him for Ben , who came , with a pale , happy face , and shining eyes . 
She looked at him seriously . 
Ben slipped on the third finger of her left hand a plain ring . 
She kissed it , and he looked as if about to be translated . 
Ben was so pale , and wore so exalted an expression , that he agitated me , almost beyond control . 
asked Ben . 
`` I wait on the Senoritas , '' he answered . 
`` My dear , I am astonished that Ben 's choice fell as it did -- '' `` Good night , Sir , '' I said so loudly , that he almost dropped his candle , and I retired to my room , taking a chair by the fire , with a sigh of relief . 
After a while Ben and Veronica came up . 
`` I am in an enchanted palace , '' said Ben , `` where there is no weather . '' 
`` Ben , we will excuse you . '' 
`` How good of you . '' 
Manuel had the reins , and Ben was beside him , reeling slightly on the seat of the wagon . 
I ran down to meet him ; he had been on a trip to Belem , where he never went except when he wanted money . 
`` I have some news for you , '' he said , putting his arm in mine , as he jumped from the wagon . 
I brought a chair for him , and waited till his boots were off . 
Have you over-driven the horses ? '' 
He drank the brandy . 
She nodded kindly to him , shut her book , and slipped out , without approaching him . 
`` That 's herway , '' he said , staring hard at me . 
Ben knew it , but left it to me to tell Veronica . 
`` Let us go away to the world 's end with Ben . '' 
I love him ! '' 
`` I know him as you never knew him , and have for years , since I was that starved , poor-house brat your mother took . 
Ben urged me to go to Milford to meet Alice , and to ask her to come to our house . 
She refused to come with them , Ben said , and never would , probably . 
`` What is your opinion ? '' 
He was about to condemn , when he recollected his own interference in my life . 
Can you buy this house from Ben , for me ? 
Temperance will live with Verry ; Ben will build , now that his share of his grandfather 's estate will come to him . ' 
By the next June Ben 's house was completed , and they moved . 
Her rooms were towards the orchard , and Ben 's commanded a view of the sea . 
He had not ventured to intrude , he told her , upon the Northern Lights , and she must not bother him about his boat-house , or his pier . 
Temperance indulged their whims to the utmost , though she thought Ben 's new-fangled notions were silly ; but they might keep him from something worse.This something was a shadow which frightened me , though I fought it off . 
Whenever Ben went from home , and he often drove to Milford , or to some of the towns near , he came back disordered with drink . 
But they rose again , he was so genial , so loving , so calmly contented afterwards . 
`` I see Ben coming , with Verry , and Manuel behind . '' 
called Ben , pulling up his horses , in front of the window . 
How is Ben ? '' 
`` It is Ben in black lead , '' said Fanny . 
At dusk Ben and Veronica drove up . 
Ben fixed his eyes upon him , without stopping . 
We ran out , and called to him . 
Ben 's face was a study ; so many emotions assailed him that my heart was wrung with pity . 
Veronica took hold of Ben 's chin , and raised his head to look into his face . 
But he made no reply to her . 
We were all silent for a moment , then he said , `` Was I wrong , Des ? '' 
Ben threw the reins with a sudden dash towards Manuel , who was standing by , and jumped down . 
She took his arm , and entered the house . 
`` Friend , '' I said to Ben , who lingered by the door . 
Ben has been dead six months . 
