I 'm Dora Darling ; and I live about five miles from here . 
Dora lifted her to the seat , and held her there , with one arm about her waist , saying kindly , -- `` Hug right up to me , you poor little thing ! 
The impatient horse , feeling the loosened rein , and hearing his own name , darted away at speed ; whirling the light wagon along so rapidly , that the child clung convulsively to her new protector , murmuring , -- `` I guess I shall spill out of this , and get kilt . '' 
The child made no reply ; but her head drooped upon Dora 's shoulder yet more heavily , and her eyes closed . 
asked Dora , looking anxiously down into the colorless face , over which the evening breeze was gently strewing the tangled curls , as if to hide it from mortal view , while the poor , worn spirit fled away to peace and rest . 
exclaimed Dora , gently moving the heavy head that still drooped lower and lower , until now the face was hidden from view . 
said Dora , looking anxiously about her . 
cried Dora , with one touch of the whip upon the glossy haunch of the powerful beast , who , at sound of that clear voice , neighed reply , and darted forward at the rate of twelve good miles an hour ; so that , in considerably less than the promised time , Dora skilfully turned the corner from the road into a green country lane , and , a few moments after , stopped before the door of an old-fashioned one-story farm-house , painted red , with a long roof sloping to the ground at the back , an open well with a sweep and bucket , and a diamond-paned dairy-window swinging to and fro in the faint breeze . 
A young man , lounging upon the doorstep , started to his feet as the wagon came dashing up the lane , and was going to open the gate of the barn-yard ; but Dora stopped before the open door , and called to him , -- `` Karl ! 
She pulled away the shawl as she spoke , and showed to the young man , who now stood beside the carriage , the still inanimate form of the little waif at her feet . 
I took her into the buggy , and then she fainted , and I laid her down , '' rapidly explained Dora ; adding , as she raised the little figure in her arms , -- `` Take her in , and lay her on the bed in the rosy-room . '' 
She 's not dead , is she , Dora ? '' 
asked the young man softly , as he took the child in his arms and entered the house , followed by Dora . 
As she spoke , they entered the sitting-room , -- a cool , shady apartment , with a great beam crossing the ceiling , and deep recesses to the windows , with seats in them . 
At the farther side , Dora threw open the door of a little bedroom , whose gay-papered walls and flowered chintz furniture , not to speak of a great sweet-brier bush tapping and scratching at the window , with all its thousand sharp little fingers , gave it a good right to be called the rosy-room . 
Dora hastily drew away the bright counterpane , and nodded to Karl , who laid the little form he carried tenderly upon the bed . 
At this moment , another door into the sitting-room opened ; and a girl , somewhat older than Dora , put in her head , looked about for a moment , and then came curiously toward the door of the rosy-room . 
`` I thought I heard you , Dora , '' said she . 
asked Dora rapidly . 
`` What shall Ido , Dora ? '' 
interposed the young man ; and Kitty ran upon her errand , while Dora promptly replied , -- `` Open the window , and bring some cold water ; and then a little wine or brandy , if we have any . '' 
`` Enough for this time , at any rate , '' said Karl , hurrying away , and returning with both water and wine just as Kitty appeared with the salts ; but it was Dora who applied the remedies , and with a skill and steadiness that would have seemed absolutely marvellous to one unacquainted with the young girl 's previous history and training . 
`` She 's coming to herself . 
You 'd better both go out of sight , and let her see only me . 
whispered Dora ; and Karl , taking his sister by the sleeve , led her out , softly closing the door after them . 
`` Dora does like to manage , I must say . 
Now , do tell me at last who this child is , and where she came from , and what 's going to be done with her , '' said Kitty as they reached the kitchen . 
`` Why should n't she like to manage , when she can do it so well ? 
`` Well , here it is ; and do tell Dora to come to supper , or at least come yourself . 
`` I 'll tell her , '' said Karl briefly , as he took the little bowl of broth , set it in a plate , and laid a silver spoon beside it . 
just like a woman , '' said Kitty to herself as her brother left the room ; and then , going out into the sink-room , she finished washing and putting away the `` milk-things , '' -- a process interrupted by the arrival of Dora with her little charge . 
`` How is she now , Dora ? '' 
The pale lips slightly opened , and Dora deftly slipped the spoon between them . 
The effect was instantaneous ; and , as the half-starved child tasted and smelled the nourishing food , she opened wide her eyes , and , fixing them upon the cup , nervously worked her lips , and half extended her poor little hands , wasted and paled by even two days of privation and fatigue . 
`` I tell you what , Dora , this child has had a mighty narrow chance of it , '' said Karl aside , as Dora patiently administered the broth , waiting a moment between each spoonful . 
`` Yes , '' replied she softly . 
`` I am so glad I met her ! 
`` For her ? '' 
`` For me as much , '' returned Dora simply . 
do n't talk now : it will disturb her . 
asked Dora cheerily , as she laid the heavy head back upon the pillow , and tenderly smoothed away the tangled hair . 
But the child only fixed her dreamy eyes upon the face of the questioner , with no effort at reply ; and then the lids began slowly to close . 
She lifted the child as she spoke , and carried her again into the front entry , and up the square staircase to a cottage-chamber with white , scoured floor , common pine furniture , the cheapest of white earthern toilet-sets , and nothing of expense or luxury to be found within its four whitewashed walls , and yet a room that gave one a feeling of satisfaction and peace not always inhabiting far wider and more costly chambers : for the little bed was artistically composed , and covered with snow-white dimity , as was the table between the windows , and the cushion of the wooden rocking-chair ; while curtains of the same material , escaped from their tricolored fastenings , floated in upon the soft breeze like great sails , or the draperies of twilight spirits departing before mortal presence . 
Singular ornaments , we have said , for a young girl 's sleeping-room , and yet , in this case , touchingly appropriate and harmonious : for they were the keepsakes given to the daughter of the regiment by the six hundred brave men , who each loved her as his own ; they were the mementoes of a year in Dora Darling 's life , of such vivid experiences , that it threatened to make all the years that should come after pale and vapid in comparison . 
`` The prettiest child I ever saw , '' replied Dora , with her usual decision ; and then the two girls stood for a moment looking down at the delicate little face , where , since the food and bath Dora had administered , a bright color showed itself upon the cheeks and lips ; while the short , thick curls , carefully brushed , clustered around the white forehead , defining its classic shape , and contrasting with its pearly tints . 
She spoke English when I first met her ; but I do n't believe she knows much of it , '' said Dora thoughtfully . 
`` There is something sewed up in a little bag , and hung round her neck , '' added she , `` just such as some of our foreign volunteers had , -- a sort of charm , you know , to keep them from being struck by the evil eye . 
And Dora quietly went out of the room , leaving Kitty to swing backward and forward in the whitecushioned rocking-chair , her dark eyes wandering half contemptuously , half enviously , over Dora 's collection of treasures , with an occasional glance at the sleeping child . 
Inthe kitchen , Dora found Karl waiting for her ; and , while she eat her supper with the healthy relish of a young and vigorous creature , she gave her cousin an account of all the circumstances attending her meeting with the little girl , whom she described again as a foreigner , and probably French . 
`` And what 's to be done with her , Dora ? '' 
asked the young man rather gravely , when she had finished . 
`` Why , when she is well enough to tell who she is , and where she came from , -- that is , if she can talk English at all , -- we can return her to her friends ; or , if they are not to be discovered , I will keep her myself . 
`` When I brought you here , Dora Darling , I brought you home ; and when my mother died , not yet a year ago , did she not bid us live together as brother and sisters , in love and harmony ? '' 
`` Yes ; but '' -- `` But what , Dora ? '' 
`` I am afraid sometimes I behave too much as if it were my own house , '' faltered Dora . 
Dora made no reply ; and , while Karl still waited for one , the staircase-door opened softly , and Kitty appeared . 
And Dora drew from her pocket , and held toward him , a large white envelope , boldly directed to `` Miss Dora Darling , care of Capt. Charles Windsor . '' 
replied Dora with simplicity . 
`` Well , I thought we were Americans , Dora and all , '' retorted Kitty . 
and what does he want of our Dora ? '' 
`` To marry her , I suppose , or to ask her to marry Mr. Brown , '' snapped Kitty . 
`` Perhaps he wants to ask my good word toward marrying you , '' suggested Dora , coloring deeply . 
I 'm sure I 'm in no hurry to be married ; and , though I have n't had Dora 's chances of seeing all sorts of men , I dare say I shall get as good a husband in the end , '' replied Kitty loftily . 
`` Perhaps he wants your ideas upon the campaign in Western Virginia , and a report of the general 's real motives and intentions , '' suggested Dora gayly . 
`` Perhaps he wants to engage his winter 's butter ; though I do n't believe Dora is the one to ask about that , '' said Kitty . 
`` O Dora ! 
exclaimed Dora in great distress ; and would have followed her , had not Karl held her back . 
`` Do n't go , dear ; it will be of no use : she will not let you into her room . 
We must make many excuses , Dora , for our sister 's little inequalities of temper : I think her great loss is at the bottom of all . '' 
Dora looked thoughtful , and presently said slowly , `` I know it , Karl ; but it does seem to me rather unjust that she should hate poor Pic 's memory so bitterly even now . 
`` O Dora , do n't say that ! 
She did not cry ; she very seldom did : but she clasped her hands tightly together , and looked so white and wild , that Karl came to her , and , taking her in his arms , would have soothed and caressed her like a little child , had not she repulsed him . 
It was the bitterest sentence Dora had ever spoken , and her cousin looked at her in dismay . 
continued Dora ; while in her eyes , and about her white lips , quivered a passion of grief far beyond any tears , -- far beyond , thank God ! 
And as it rose and swelled in her girl heart , and shook her strong young soul , Dora uttered in one word all the bitterness of her orphaned life . 
cried she , and clinched her hands above the sharp pain that seemed to suffocate her , -- the pain we call heart-ache , and might sometimes more justly call heartbreak . 
Karl looked at her , and his gay young face grew strong , and full of meaning . 
He folded her again in his arms , and said , -- `` Dora , I had not meant to speak yet ; but I can not see you so , or hear you say such words . 
Dora , marry me , and I will make you forget all other loves in the excess of mine . '' 
Dora allowed her head to droop upon his shoulder , and a sudden sense of peace and rest fell temptingly upon her spirit . 
`` Dora , Dora Darling always , even when you are all my Dora ! '' 
whispered Karl ; but Dora released herself from his arms , and stood upright . 
Her face was strong again now , although very white ; and she said , -- `` Thank you , cousin . 
The young man would have persisted ; but Dora , gravely shaking her head , said , -- `` Karl dear , you only distress me , and I want to be quiet . 
`` I do n't want to say that ; for I do n't know that I should want you to then , '' said Dora , with such exquisite simplicity , that the young man laughed outright , and said , -- `` But you do n't know that you sha 'n' t , do you , darling Dorelle ? '' 
He took out his note-book , wrote a few words , and , glancing at Dora with a suppressed smile , put it away again . 
Then , more seriously , he took her hand , saying , -- `` Only remember one thing , Dora ; and that is , whatever may come in the future , this house is your home as long as it is ours ; and , while I live , there is always some one who loves you best of all God 's creatures . '' 
`` An ' mabbe she 's wid him still . 
asked she , throwing it open ; and then , recollecting herself , added , -- `` An ' sure how could she be , widout she kim in trew the kayhole ? 
`` It 's quicker nor that you 'll stip , my b ` y , whin you hear the little sisther 's not in yit , an ' it 's wid Jovarny she is , '' muttered Mrs. Ginniss ; and , half dreading the entrance of her son , she applied herself so diligently to making a fire in preparation for supper , that she did not appear to notice him . 
Misther Jovarny was perlite enough to ax her ; an ' she wor that wild to go , I could n't say her no . '' 
I hate to let her be with that fellow , anyway . 
I 'd have taken her to walk myself , if I was twice as tired . 
Itwas the afternoon of Thursday , Aug. 25 : and Dora , sitting beside the bed where her little charge lay sleeping heavily , heard the rattle of wheels , and , peeping from the window , saw Karl jumping from the wagon , followed more slowly by a tall , handsome young gentleman , whom she concluded to be Mr. Burroughs ; her cousin having gone to meet him at the railway-station , seven miles away . 
`` He 's good-looking enough for a colonel , '' thought Dora , and then started back , coloring a little ; for Mr. Burroughs , in entering the house , had glanced up , and caught her eye . 
how nice you look , Dora ! 
Dora glanced involuntarily at the mirror , and caught the reflection of a bright face , surrounded by heavy chestnut curls , and lighted with clear hazel eyes , and flashing white teeth , a head of queenly shape and poise , and a firm , graceful figure , well set off by its white dress , black bodice , and scarlet ribbons , -- a charming picture , with the quaintly decorated chamber for background , and the heavy black frame of the old mirror for setting : and a brighter color flashed into the young girl 's cheek as she recognized the fact ; but she only said , -- `` Why do you call her Molly , Kitty ? '' 
`` She called it Sunshine , '' said Dora , bending to kiss the pale little face upon the pillow as she passed . 
Dora opened her lips , closed them tightly , and left the room . 
The next moment she stood in the low doorway of the parlor , bowing gravely , but not shyly , to the stately gentleman , whose head grazed the great white beam in the ceiling as he came forward to meet her . 
`` Yes , sir ; I am Dora Darling : and you are Mr. Burroughs ; are you not ? '' 
`` At your service , '' said the gentleman , bowing again ; and , handing Dora a chair , he took another for himself . 
asked Dora with anxious hospitality ; and , as the gentleman confessed to an inclination for some water , she tripped away , and presently returned with a tumbler , which Mr. Burroughs very willingly took from her slender fingers instead of a salver . 
`` You know I was a vivandière , sir , '' said Dora , smiling frankly ; `` and I always think of people being thirsty and tired when they come in so . '' 
asked Dora with sudden animation . 
exclaimed Dora ; and , with no further preamble , the two plunged into a series of army reminiscences and army gossip , that kept them busy until Karl entered the room , saying , -- `` Well , Dora , what do you think of Mr. Burroughs 's news ? '' 
`` She has not heard it yet , '' said Mr. Burroughs , laughing a little . 
`` I am glad you have not ; for I want to see how Dora will take it : but you will be grieved , as well as pleased , little girl . '' 
exclaimed Dora , while a sudden shadow fell upon her bright face . 
`` I am very , very sorry , '' continued she . 
said Dora again . 
The two men glanced at each other , then at her , and gravely smiled . 
Mr. Burroughs was the first to speak ; and , drawing a packet of papers from his pocket , he spread before Dora 's sorrowful eyes a copy of Col. Blank 's will , a plan of the estate bequeathed by it to her , and an official letter from Mr. Ferrars , the principal executor . 
`` Thank you , sir , '' said Dora meekly ; and then , rather sadly , but very patiently , listened while the lawyer described the property she had inherited , and indicated the best course to pursue with regard to it . 
asked Dora rather eagerly . 
`` I shall certainly go there and live , '' said Dora with quiet positiveness . 
asked Mr. Burroughs , looking into her face , and smiling . 
`` Quite , '' said Dora . 
Dora returned his gaze wistfully . 
She could not , in presence of a stranger , say what was in her heart : but she longed to let him know that this prospect of independence , of making a home of her own , of assuming duties and pursuits of her own , was such a prospect as no friend could wish her to forego ; was the full and only cure for the bitterness of heart she had been unable to conceal from him upon the previous evening , -- a bitterness so foreign to the sweet and noble nature of the young girl , that it had affected her cousin 's mind with a sort of terror . 
Something of all she meant must have stood visibly in the clear eyes Dora now fixed upon Karl ; for , in meeting that gaze , the young man changed color , and said hastily , -- `` But if you will be happier , Dora ; if you are not contented here -- It is a humdrum sort of life , I know . '' 
Was Dora Darling one of the noblest , or one of the most crafty , of womankind ? 
But Karl was saying rather gloomily , -- `` And what is to become of us , Dora ? '' 
asked Dora , open-eyed . 
Dora considered for a moment . 
asked Dora suddenly . 
`` We were just wanting to tell you the new plan , and see how you will like it , '' said Dora quickly ; for she felt an involuntary dread lest Kitty should , in presence of this courteous stranger , say something to do herself discredit . 
Mr. Burroughsstaid to tea , and , while it was being prepared , strolled with Karl about the little farm ; looked at the Alderney cow , the Suffolk pigs , the span of Morgan horses named Pope and Pagan ; quietly sounded the depths of Capt. Karl 's open and joyous nature , and made him talk of his cousin Dora , and reveal his love and his hopes regarding her . 
Kitty smiled a little vaguely , half inclined to insist upon the kitchen-side of the question ; when Karl asked , in a disappointed tone , -- `` Where is Dora ? 
Is n't she coming ? '' 
Molly waked up , and Dora is giving her some supper . 
She said she would come as soon as she had done . 
You did n't know , Mr. Burroughs , that Dora has an adopted child , did you ? '' 
She is young to undertake such responsibility , '' said Mr. Burroughs a little curiously . 
`` This is a little foreigner too , that Dora picked up in the road . 
No one knows who she may be , or what dreadful people may come after her any day . 
Dora is so queer ! '' 
And Karl , determined not to allow Kitty the chance of making any of her spiteful little speeches about Dora in presence of the visitor , kept the conversation upon purely impersonal topics , until they rose from table , and the two gentlemen strolled out upon the porch at the western door ; while Kitty ran up to call Dora , whom she found sitting beside the bed , with Sunshine 's head lying upon her arm . 
`` What did she say , Dora ? '' 
She is out of her head , I think . 
She has been saying I was her little wife , '' whispered Dora . 
`` What do you suppose she is ? '' 
As she spoke , Dora carefully withdrew her arm from under the little head , where , in the August night , the hair clung in moist golden spirals , and a soft dew stood upon the white forehead . 
`` I 'll stay and fan her for a while longer , she looks so warm , '' whispered Dora . 
Sunshine slept soundly ; and Dora , half reluctantly , suffered herself to be led away by her cousin , closing the door softly behind her , and leaving the little child to dreams of a home so far away , and yet so near ; of a vanished past , that , even in this moment , stretched a detaining hand from out the darkness , groping for her own ; of human love immortal as heaven , and yet , for the moment , less trustworthy than the instinct of the brutes : for if Mr. Thomas Burroughs , instead of being a highly cultivated and intellectual man , had been a dog of only average intelligence , ' Toinette Legrange would already have been discovered , and , before another sunset , the slow agony devouring her mother 's heart would have been relieved . 
But to each of us our gifts ; and Mr. Burroughs , never suspecting how deficient were his own , strolled with his host beneath the trees , until the appearance of the young ladies upon the porch ; when he joined them , and resumed his conversation with Dora . 
`` Yes , '' said Dora : `` I expect them every moment . 
Dora smiled , but called , `` Argus ! '' 
For this was Outpost , Dora 's inheritance from her friend and father , Col. Blank ; and she felt to-night , as she waited to welcome home the family whose head she had become , that her duties and responsibilities were indeed solemn and onerous . 
Experience will come of itself , '' thought Dora ; and from her throbbing heart went up a `` song without words , '' of joy and praise and high resolve . 
The house faced south ; and eastward from its door , across the lawn and into the rustling wood , wound the faint wheeltrack , leading back to civilization , ease , and safety : but Dora , standing beneath the chestnut-tree , fixed her dreamy eyes upon the setting sun , and , half smiling at her own fancy , thought , -- `` I wonder if God does n't make the western sky so beautiful just to draw us toward it . 
explained Dora , as she hastened down the path , and , at the distance of a few hundred rods , caught sight of the black heads of Pope and Pagan , and , the next moment , of the wagon and its occupants . 
These were Karl , Kitty , and Sunshine , the two last of whom had remained all the spring in Cincinnati , while Karl and Dora had vibrated between that city and Outpost ; for Dora , while choosing to superintend the building of her house , and opening of the farm operations in person , had not wished to expose her cousin or the delicate child to such discomforts as she cheerfully and even gayly bore for herself . 
shouted Karl ; while Kitty cried , -- `` O Dora ! 
And little Sunshine , jumping up and down in the front of the wagon , exclaimed , -- `` Dora 's come ! 
Dora 's come ! 
Karlo said we 'd come to Dora by and by ! '' 
if Dora is n't glad to see you again ! 
`` Am I your own little girl , Dora ? 
Kitty never meant that , dear , '' said Dora quickly ; and Kitty , with rather a forced laugh , added , -- `` Of course I did n't . 
You talked so much about Dora , I wanted to plague you a little . '' 
The child looked earnestly at her for a moment ; and then , putting her arms about Dora 's neck , hid her face upon her bosom , murmuring , -- `` I 'm glad I 've got Dora again ! '' 
You know she persists in calling me Karlo ; so I have given her the title of Dolce : and the two of us together are going some day to paint pictures far fairer than those of our great original . '' 
Yes : Mr. Brown told me about him once , and said his name only meant sweet Charley , '' said Dora simply `` I wonder , then , that you should have left it for Sunshine to discover how appropriate the name is to me , '' said Karl with mock gravity . 
`` I 'll call you sweet Charley if you like ; only it must be at all times , and before all persons , '' said Dora roguishly . 
`` No , I thank you , '' replied her cousin , laughing . 
`` I do n't know ; would you , Dora ? '' 
`` It was Mr. Thomson , Dora ; and he is so witty , you know ! 
And one day he asked the child if her name was n't Miss Molly Coddle , just for a joke , you see ; and we all laughed : but she ran away ; and , when I went to my room , there she was crying , and would n't come down again for ever so long . 
remarked Karl gravely ; and Sunshine whispered , -- `` Am I a fuss-bunch , Dora ? '' 
Dora did not answer , except by a little pat upon the child 's rosy cheek , as she exclaimed , -- `` Here we are ! 
`` Well , I must say , Dora , you 've got things to going a great deal better than I should expect , '' said Kitty graciously , as she looked about her . 
`` They came from the old home , every one of them , '' said Dora , smiling happily . 
She was bending low over the sweetbrier , and inhaling the fragrance of its leaves . 
Dora glanced sharply at her cousin once , and then was turning away , when Kitty detained her , and said in a low voice , -- `` My mother planted that sweetbrier , and used to call it her Marnie-bush , after me . '' 
`` I know it , '' said Dora softly . 
But I did love her so , Dora ! 
`` I thought you would like it , dear , '' said Dora absently ; while her eyes grew dim and vague , and around her mouth settled the white , hard line , that , in her reticent nature , showed an emotion no less intense because it was suppressed . 
Then her arm stole round Kitty 's waist , and she whispered in her ear , -- `` We two motherless girls ought to feel for each other , and love each other better than those who never knew what it is ; should n't we , Kitty ? '' 
`` We should that , Dora , '' returned her cousin with emphasis ; `` and I do n't believe I shall forget again right away . 
Dora 's kisses , except for Sunshine , were almost as rare as her tears ; but she gave one now to Kitty , who accepted it as sufficient answer to her proposition . 
`` This is my cousin , Miss Windsor , Mehitable , '' said Dora simply . 
`` I believe you did n't see her in Cincinnati ? '' 
`` No : she was away when we was there . 
called Dora from within ; and Kitty entered , saying , -- `` How nice the tea-table looks ! 
-- just like home , Dora ; the old India china and all . '' 
Come , friends , and let us sit down to our first meal in the new house , '' said Dora : and Kitty , subduing a little feeling of fallen dignity , seated herself at the side of the table ; leaving the head for Dora , who colored a little , but took it quietly . 
But Dora , without appearing to listen or to look , heard all and saw all . 
Dora , cheerful , energetic , and calm , knew how to heal , without appearing to notice the wound ; had a faculty , all her own , of leading the mind , vexed with a thousand trifles , to the contemplation of some aim so grand , some thought so high , some love or beauty so serene , that it turned back to daily life calm and refreshed , and strengthened to do or to endure with new courage . 
`` Somehow I felt ashamed of jawing so about that wash , when Dora came in , and put her hands into the tub , and , while she was rubbing away , began to tell what a crop of corn we 're going to have ; and how the folks down South , the freedmen and all , might have plenty to eat , if every one did as well as we 're doing , '' said Mehitable to her husband . 
`` Yes , '' replied Seth : `` she stood by me there in the sun as much as an hour , and told the cutest story you ever heard about the Injins believing that corn is a live creter , and appeared once , in the shape of a young man named Odahmin , to one of the Injin chiefs called Hiawatha ; and they had a wrastle . 
`` Well , Dora , '' Kitty was saying at the same moment , `` I 'm glad you 've got home ; for the first thing is n't ready for supper , and I 've just done ironing . 
That Hit went off home an hour ago ; said her head ached , and she 'd got to get the men 's supper . 
Dora , do sit and rest a minute : you look all tired out . '' 
`` You 're right there , Dora ; and he always was so from a child . 
And while Sunshine , all unconsciously , completed by her prattle the cure that Dora had begun , the latter quietly and rapidly finished the preparations for tea . 
As for Sunshine , never did a child so well deserve her name . 
In the house or on the prairie , running with Argus , walking demurely beside Karl , or riding behind Dora upon the stout little pony reserved for the use of the young mistress of the place , it was always as a gleam of veritable sunshine that she came ; and no heart so dark , or temper so gloomy , as to resist her sweet influence . 
Constant exercise and fresh air , proper food , and the rigid sanitary laws established by Dora , had brought to the child 's cheek a richer bloom than it had ever known before ; while her blue eyes seemed two sparkling fountains of joy , and a vivid life danced and glittered even among her sunny curls . 
She danced too , but it was with the west wind , who , rough companion that he was , whirled her round and round in his strong arms , or tossed her hair in a bright cloud across her face ; while he snatched her hat , and sent it spinning into the prairie ; or kissed the laugh from her lips , and carried it away to the wild woods to mock at the singing-birds . 
Confidences these ; for , as the narrator whispered , -- `` Dora does n't like dream-stories , and Kitty says , ` Oh , nonsense ! ' 
That 's what Dora called me the other night when Kitty was cross : and Dora cried a little when she came to bed , and did n't know I was awake ; and I kissed her just so , Argus , and so . '' 
In the game of romps and kisses that ensued , Karl stole away , and , after repeating the child 's prattle to Dora , said thoughtfully , -- `` There 's something strange about her , Dora ; something different from any of us . 
She seems so finely and delicately made , and as if one rude jar might destroy the whole tone of her life . 
`` Yes , and she must be shielded accordingly , '' said Dora . 
But , as she walked on beside Karl , she vaguely wondered if there were not natures as finely strung and as sensitive to suffering as Sunshine 's , but united with so reticent an exterior , and such outward strength , as never to gain the sympathy or appreciation so freely bestowed upon the exquisite child . 
Such introspection , however , was no part of Dora 's healthy temperament ; and the next moment she had plunged into a talk upon farm-matters with her cousin , and displayed such shrewdness and clear-sighted wisdom upon the subject , that Capt. Karl laughingly exclaimed , as they entered the house , -- `` O general ! 
Leftto his own guidance , Capt. Karl would have asked no better life than to follow Dora about the farm , or fulfil for her such duties as she could not conveniently perform for herself . 
`` Dora knows '' had become to Karl a sufficient explanation of every thing , either in the character or the administration of the girl-farmer , however mysterious it might seem to others ; and to defer to Dora 's judgment and wishes was perhaps pleasanter and safer in the eyes of the young man than to attempt to consult his own . 
But , pleasant though this life might be to both , it came by no means within the scope of Dora 's plans ; and , so soon as the family were thoroughly settled at Outpost , Karl found himself urged by irresistible pressure to the pursuance of his medical studies . 
Sometimes Dora , upon Max , her little Indian pony , would accompany him a few miles , or as far as his road led toward the scene of her own labors ; but no Spartan dame or Roman matron could more sternly have resisted the young man 's frequent entreaties to be allowed to accompany her farther than the point at which their roads diverged . 
Suppose I were to neglect the farm , and come to sit in Dr. Gershom 's office all day , '' argued the fair young moralist , but found herself rather disconcerted by her pupil 's gleeful laugh , as he replied , -- `` Good , good ! 
said Dora , a little vexed ; and , suiting the action to the word , she was off before her cousin could remonstrate . 
In the evening of the day when this little scene occurred , Karl , upon his return home , found Dora seated with Sunshine upon the grass under the great chestnut-tree . 
said he , taking one from his pocket , and tossing it into her lap . 
`` She is n't ; and you are a naughty old Karlo to say such names ! '' 
cried Sunshine , flashing her blue eyes indignantly upon the laughing face of the young man . 
She is n't it , and you know she is n't . '' 
`` But it is of consequence ; for I do n't know what it is she is n't . 
`` She is n't a tireout , you know she is n't , then . 
Dora , shall Karlo laugh at me ? 
The child put up her lips for a kiss , bestowed a glance of dignified severity upon the offender , and walked towards the house with measured steps for a little distance ; then , with the frolicsome caprice of a kitten , made a little caper in the air , and danced on , singing , in her clear , sweet voice , -- `` Funny child ! '' 
`` Mr. Brown , '' said Dora , slowly folding it , and rising from her seat under the tree to return to the house . 
Dora glanced at him once , or twice , and at last asked abruptly , -- `` Do n't you want Mr. Brown to come , Karl ? '' 
Dora colored indignantly . 
Kitty can come into mine '' -- `` Dora , what is the day of the month ? '' 
`` Yes , the 17th of August ; and seven days more will bring the 24th of August , Dora . '' 
asked Dora unconsciously . 
Karl looked at her in a sort of comic despair . 
`` Dora , if you were not the most utterly truthful of girls , you would be the most cruel of coquettes . '' 
Dora 's eyes rose swiftly to his face , read it for a moment , and then fell ; while a sudden color dyed her own . 
and , taking from his pocket the memorandum-book of a year before , he opened it to a page bearing only the words , -- `` Dora . 
Again Dora glanced in perplexity at her cousin 's face , but , this time , said not a word . 
Indeed , if she had wished , there was hardly time ; for Kitty , appearing at the door , called , -- `` Come , folks , come ! 
`` Oh , a letter to Dora ! '' 
Kitty was decidedly sulky , Dora thoughtful , and Karl a little bitter in his forced gayety ; so that Sunshine , sensitive as a mimosa , ate but little , and , creeping close to Dora 's side as they rose from the table , whispered , -- `` What 's the reason it is n't happier , Dora ? '' 
It is n't much , because you always clear up as you go along , '' said Dora . 
Dora said I might -- Oh , oh ! 
`` Dora , see ! 
I do hate -- no , I dislike -- Kitty , just as hard as I can ; and I ca n't get any more pretty moss '' -- The child was crying passionately ; and Dora left every thing to take her in her arms , and soothe and quiet her . 
`` Come , wipe the teaspoons , and I will tell you , '' said Dora , going back to her work ; and , the April cloud having passed , the Sunshine was as bright as ever . 
Mother loved me , -- yes , she loved me best of every thing ; and that hateful Pic killed her : whose fault was that but Dora 's ? 
Then Charlie -- what does he care for me beside her ? 
and , and -- Well , perhaps Mr. Brown never would have noticed me at any rate ; but , while she 's round , he has no eyes for any one else . 
Even the child , and the cats , and the dog , and the horses , every living thing , loves her better than me ; and now he 's coming to court her right before my eyes ! 
`` Dora is very well , '' said Kitty , so crisply , that Mr. Brown glanced at her sharply , and walked on in silence . 
Dora 's lover has come to see her , and she wo n't have a look for either of us to-night . '' 
But Sunshine , well disposed as , through Dora 's careful suggestions , she had become toward Kitty , was rather alarmed than pleased at the sudden embrace in which she found herself wrapped , and the eager kisses , among which Kitty whispered , -- `` O Dolce ! 
said Dora 's voice softly . 
`` Well , then , we can make a bed for Karl on the floor , and Mr. Brown can have his bed , '' said Dora quietly , seeing nothing deeper in Kitty 's refusal than a little impulse of perversity . 
Kitty made no reply ; and Dora , groping her way toward where she stood , put an arm about her waist , saying , -- `` Come , Kitty , come down with me . 
`` Of course it is n't ; and you know Mr. Brown is very ceremonious , '' said Dora , so archly , that Kitty paused in smoothing her hair to say , -- `` Now , if you 're going to make fun of me , Dora '' -- `` Oh , I 'm not ! 
She looked suthin ' like Dolcy , Dora 's little adopted darter , you know : but she wor alluz a-larfin ' , and gitting off her jokes ; and had a sort of a wicked look by spells , enough to make a feller 's flesh creep on his bones . '' 
You see , sir , Mehitabul wor a sort o ' cousin o ' my mother 's , and so come to live long of us when her father died : but she never cottoned to Harnah very strong when she see how well I liked her ; though , now she 's got me for her own man , I 'd think '' -- `` But the panther , Mr. Ross , '' interposed Dora , who saw , with womanly sympathy , the flush of mortification upon Mehitable 's face : `` do tell us about the panther . '' 
But Mehitable preserving a prudent silence , and only showing her feelings by an accelerated movement of her knitting-needles , her husband elevated his eyes again to the ceiling , recrossed his legs , and continued : -- `` I scrambled up the back of the clift easy enough ; and , sure enough , there was the posies , all in blow , and tossing their heads at me as if they knowed how pooty they was , and dared me not to say so . 
In delivering this sentiment , Seth bestowed a sidelong glance upon Mehitable , far more merry than sincere in its expression ; but she , tranquilly pursuing her knitting , let fall her retort , as if she had not perceived the sarcasm . 
said she , `` I do n't know as I 've any call to find fault with merried life . 
In the chamber that had been Dora 's , was wrought , perhaps , the greatest change of all ; for to the rugged simplicity , and , so to speak , severity , of the young girl 's surroundings , had succeeded the luxury , the exquisite refinement , essential to the comfort of a woman born and bred in the innermost sanctuary of modern civilization . 
The martial relics of Dora 's camp-life had disappeared from the walls , no longer simply whitewashed , but covered with a pearl-gray paper , over which trailed in graceful curves a mimic ivy-vine , colored like nature . 
Between the windows , in place of Dora 's simple pine table , with its white drapery , its few plain books , and little work-box , stood a toilet-table , covered with the luxurious necessities of an elegant woman 's wardrobe . 
So let us , if we will , love Dora in the Spartan simplicity of her soldierly adornments , and none the less love and cherish the woman who now lies upon the very spot , where , but a year ago , lay little Sunshine , wavering between this life and a better . 
Thus lying in the twilight of this evening , dreamily watching the long white curtains as they filled with the night-air and floated out into the room like the shadowy sails of a bark anchored in some Dreamland bay , and never guessing whose eyes had watched their waving but one short year before , when ` Toinette was first laid in Dora 's little bed , Mrs. Legrange heard her husband coming up the stairs , and rose to receive him , with a strange fluttering at her heart , -- a sort of nervous hope and terror all in one , as if she had known him the bearer of great news , but could not yet determine its tenor . 
`` And if you feel able to ride so far , Dora , '' continued he , `` perhaps you will show me the way to the curious mounds we heard of from Dr. Gershom . '' 
`` To-day is the 24th , is n't it , Dora ? 
inquired Karl ; and Dora , if no other of his auditors , saw the connection between this remark and the proposed long ride with Mr. Brown . 
`` I will fix Sunshine 's pillion upon Major , and Dora can ride behind me . 
there is no need of Major 's carrying double , '' said Dora hastily . 
Dora made no answer ; nor , in the busy hour before they started , could her cousin find opportunity for a single private word . 
Nor was he more successful in the bold push made by him , so soon as they had started , for the place beside Dora ; for she , thinking just then of some important communication for Kitty 's ear , reined her pony close to that young lady 's , and good-humoredly desired him to ride on out of earshot . 
He reined in his steed as he spoke , and , waiting beside the road until the young ladies came up , made some remark to Kitty relating to a question she had asked him concerning Virginian roads as compared with those of the West , and , by turning into the track beside her , rather obliged Dora to ride forward to the turn of the road , where Karl awaited her . 
`` If he can only look at Dora , why do n't he go and ride with her ? '' 
I thought you looked as if you would like to hear what Charlie is saying to Dora . '' 
I 'm used to finding myself of no account beside Dora . '' 
Kitty raised her eyes to the far vista point where Karl and Dora vanished into the forest , their horses moving close to each other 's side , and then brought them back to the face of her companion . 
So employed , the psychological student even forgot his own affairs , and for half an hour hardly remembered Dora riding on beside Karl , who , like the cowardly bather , dallying first with one foot and then the other in the water 's edge , and losing all his courage before the final plunge , had talked with her of almost every thing beneath the sun , and worn out his own patience and hers , before she said , turning her clear eyes full upon him , -- `` Karl , be honest and straightforward . 
`` That 's it , Dora . 
O Dora ! 
He spoke the last words in an imploring voice , and fixed his eyes upon her averted face . 
Then , as she did not speak , he went on : -- `` It is n't any thing I can offer you , Dora , except the chance of doing good : I know that well enough . 
And I do love you so , Dora ! 
When I first saw you there at your old home , and you took care of me so tenderly , and looked at me so pityingly out of your great brown eyes , my heart warmed to you ; and then in camp , you know -- O Dora Darling ! 
you can not say but you knew how dearly I grew to love you even then : and when I found you were my own kin ; and when you came to my own home , and my mother took you to her heart , and thanked God for having given her another daughter , and such a daughter ; and when I saw your daily life among us , and saw how noble , and how unselfish , and how true and brave , you were through all the sorrow , and the trials , and the loneliness , and the petty spite and insults , you had to endure ; and then here , where you are like a wise and gracious queen among her subjects , -- O Dora ! 
And the true-hearted young fellow felt his words strike home to his own soul so earnestly , that he could add to them nothing of the flood of tenderness and homage swelling there , but only looked at his cousin piteously ; while she , with drooping head and averted eyes , rode on for a few moments in silence , and then said softly , -- `` I hoped , dear Karl , you would never speak of it again . 
-- `` O Dora ! '' 
interrupted Dora decisively . 
She paused a moment , and recommenced in a lower and more tender voice : -- `` I am so sorry , Karl , to give you pain ! 
why not right , Dora ? '' 
She turned her face upon him , all aglow with a noble enthusiasm far above the maiden bashfulness that but now had held it averted , and extended her hand , saying , -- `` Come , dear Karl , forget this idle dream . 
Dora 's kind eyes sought his again and again , but vainly . 
For the first time in all the interview , Dora found herself troubled and perplexed . 
Here was nothing to soothe , nothing to combat , nothing to answer or to silence ; and her womanly sympathies fluttered about this manly reticence like a humming-bird around a flower frozen into the heart of an iceberg . 
At last , she spoke ; and her voice had grown almost caressing in its softness : -- `` You 're not angry with me , Karl ? '' 
He glanced at her , then away . 
`` Certainly not , Dora . 
exclaimed Dora , her feminine pique just touched a trifle . 
Her sharply wheeled his horse as he spoke , and was gone . 
Dora looked after him in sorrowful perplexity , and then tears gathered in her eyes ; but , before they could fall , the unswerving rectitude underlying her whole nature came to its relief , and she dashed them away , murmuring , -- `` But I was right . '' 
Reiningup her horse under the shadow of a clump of trees , Dora waited , as her cousin had requested , for his return ; and so much pre-occupied was she with her own thoughts , that she failed to hear the quick footfalls of an approaching horse , until his rider slackened speed beside her , and Dora , looking up , saw that it was Mr. Brown . 
She grew a little pale , divining , not only from the presence of the chaplain , but from a joyous and significant light in the eyes that encountered hers , what might be his errand ; and though she had not failed to foresee this moment , no man , and surely no woman , is ever so prepared for the great crises of life that they fail to come at the last with almost as much of a shock as if they came quite unawares . 
`` Dora , I must leave you to-morrow . '' 
`` I am very sorry , sir , '' faltered Dora ; and Mr. Brown , glancing at her face , could not but notice its unwonted agitation . 
His own wishes , and his sex , led him to misconstrue it ; and , pressing his horse closer to her side , he said joyfully , -- `` And so am I sorry , Dora ; but I need not be gone long if you wish for my return . '' 
Dora did not speak ; indeed , she could not : for the wild dance of sky and plain , of prairie and forest , grew yet wilder ; and in her ears the voice of the chaplain mingled with a dizzy hum that almost drowned the words . 
She grasped the horn of her saddle with both hands , and only thought of saving herself from falling . 
The horse was halted , an arm was about her waist , her head drawn to a resting-place upon a steady shoulder ; and that strange , faroff voice murmured , -- `` My darling , my long-loved , long-sought treasure , calm yourself ; be happy and secure in my love . 
He stooped to kiss her : but , at the motion , the virginal instincts of the young girl 's nature rallied to the defence ; and , with a sudden spring , Dora sat upright , her face very pale , but her eyes clear and steadfast as their wont . 
cried she , as pleadingly as a little child , who will not be caressed , yet knows not why he should refuse . 
`` Must not , Dora ? '' 
I believe I was a little faint ; '' and Dora 's eyes timidly sought those of the chaplain , who , meeting them , remembered many such a glance when his pupil had feared to displease him by inattention or disobedience . 
Again he thought to have discovered the source of her refusal , and again he failed . 
`` Dora , '' said he grently , `` you do not forget , that , some years ago , we bore the relation of master and pupil ; and you still regard me with a certain deference and reserve , which , perhaps , blinds you to the true relation existing between us now . 
`` Please , Mr. Brown , '' interposed Dora , `` do not let us say any thing about Karl . 
`` You are right , Dora , and I was wrong , '' said Mr. Brown with a little effort of magnanimity . 
`` Yes , sir , '' said Dora timidly , as he paused for her assent . 
A quick smile dimpled Dora 's cheek , and passed . 
`` Dora , if you say ` sir ' to me again , I 'll kiss you . '' 
`` Please not , Mr. Brown , '' said Dora demurely , `` until you quite understand me . '' 
`` But I can not promise , -- I can not be what you said , '' stammered Dora , half terrified , half confused . 
`` Dora , years ago I resolved that you should be my wife , God and you consenting . 
Dora , you do not know me : you can not guess at the ardor or the power of a love I have never dared wholly to reveal even to myself . 
Trust it , Dora : it can not but make you happy . 
Never man was more in earnest , never was wooing at once so fervent and so lofty in its tone ; and so Dora felt it . 
The temptation to yield , without further struggle , to the belief that Mr. Brown knew better what was good for her than she knew for herself , was very great ; but , even while she hesitated , the inherent truthfulness of her nature rose up , and cried , `` No , no ! 
and turning , with an effort , to meet the keen eyes reading her face , she said , still timidly perhaps , but very calmly , -- `` I am but a simple girl , almost a child in some things , and you are a wise and good man , learned in books and in the way of the world ; but I must judge for myself , and must believe my own heart sooner than you in such matters as these . 
`` As my future wife , Dora . 
`` Yes , sir , '' replied Dora , without looking up . 
To her infinite astonishment and dismay , she found herself suddenly embraced , and a hearty kiss tingling upon her lips . 
`` I am sorry if you do n't like it , Dora ; but I said I would if you called me ` sir ' again ; and you are so scrupulous about your promises , you can not wish me to break mine . '' 
to go back and ride with Kitty all the rest of the way , '' said Dora , as , with heightened color and a decided pout , she drew her left-hand rein so sharply as to wheel Max to the other side of the road . 
`` Dora , I am afraid you are a little of a coquette , after all ! '' 
exclaimed the lover , gazing at her with admiration . 
`` Not love me , Dora , when I love you so much ! '' 
`` Yes , that would make trouble certainly , Dora , '' said the chaplain gravely . 
The profound conviction of her tone was final ; the simple faith of her argument was unassailable : and Mr. Brown , skilful polemic that he was , found himself silenced . 
After a moment , he said calmly , -- `` Dora , you will not forget that this is , to me at least , a very serious , indeed a vital matter . 
`` That is sufficient , Dora . 
The bitter pain in his voice pierced to Dora 's very heart , and wounded it almost as sorely as she had wounded his . 
The rare tears overflowed her eyes ; and , pressing close to his side , she laid a hand upon his own , saying , -- `` Oh , forgive me ! 
The young man laughed bitterly , then , turning suddenly , seized both her hands , and looked deep into her eyes . 
Do not even you , Dora , guileless and unworldly as you are , see how impossible it would be for a young and beautiful girl to live with a man who admires and loves her openly , without such scandal as should ruin both in the world 's eyes , even if they saved their own souls unspotted ? '' 
Dora snatched away her hands , and her whole face flamed with a sudden shame . 
She was learning fast to-day in the book of human passion , suffering , and sin . 
Without comment upon her embarrassment , the chaplain went on : -- `` No , Dora : I must lay aside the dream of four sweet years , and take up my lonely life without disguise or embellishment . 
`` You have heard Mr. Brown speak of Dora ? '' 
`` Where is Dora ? '' 
asked Karl , glancing round the room where the pretty tea-table stood spread , and Dora 's hat and gloves lay upon a chair ; but no other sign of her presence was to be found . 
Of course , she was dripping wet ; and Dora has put her to bed . '' 
asked Karl : `` because , if the latter , we shall have Dora out of spirits all the evening . 
She never punishes Dolce half so much as she does herself . '' 
`` I think she 'll be down to tea . 
When they returned , Dora was waiting to receive them , somewhat pale and sad at having felt obliged to refuse Sunshine 's entreaties to `` get up , and be the ` bedientest little girl that ever was , '' but courteously attentive to the guest , and ready to be interested and sympathetic in hearing all Karl 's little experiences of the day . 
said Dora , laughing a little , `` she thought she had found the way to heaven . 
`` Do n't , please , '' murmured Dora , with a little shiver . 
Dora looked at him with pity in her honest eyes , and hastened to prevent Kitty 's evident intention of questioning him further with regard to this `` little sister . '' 
I never could find the way , '' said the child , with a troubled expression suddenly clouding her sweet face ; and then she added musingly , -- `` I thought I 'd get there through the river last night ; but I tumbled off the log , and only got wet : and Dora said I was naughty ; and so I had to go to bed , and not have some supper , only '' -- `` What 's that , then ! '' 
`` Yes , I 'm alive ; though , if I 'd staid into the river , I would n't have been , Dora says , '' replied Sunshine quietly . 
Teddy , not too much terrified -LRB- for he had seen her thus before -RRB- , raised the slender little figure in his arms , and carried it swiftly toward the house , now just visible through a vista of the wood , but , before he reached it , met Dora coming to look for her little charge . 
So you have caught my naughty runaway , '' cried she gayly ; but coming near enough to notice Sunshine 's drooping figure , and Teddy 's agitated face , she sprang forward , asking , -- `` Is any thing the matter with her ? 
said Dora , not yet caring to ask this strange news , but walking close beside Teddy , her hand clasping that cold little one which swung nervelessly over his shoulder , her eyes anxiously watching the beautiful pale face , half hidden in the showering curls . 
`` Dora Darling , the young lady who adopted her , -- the one I told you of as living in Iowa . '' 
and the opening door showed Dora seated upon a low chair , with Sunshine clasped in her arms , and fast asleep . 
She made a motion to rise upon seeing the visitors ; but Mrs. Legrange , lifting her finger as imploring silence , softly advanced , and bent with clasped hands and eager eyes over the sleeping child . 
Then , with the graceful instinct of a woman who knows and pities the wound in the heart of her less fortunate rival , she put her arms about Dora and the child , embracing both , and pressed her lips lightly upon Dora 's cheek , devouringly upon Sunshine 's lips . 
Dora started as if she had been stung , and a sudden tremor crossed the rigid calm of her demeanor . 
She had schooled herself to indifference , to neglect , or to civil thanks worse than either : but this unexpected tenderness , this sisterly recognition , went straight through all its defences to her quivering heart ; and she looked up piteously into the lovely face bent over her , whispering , -- `` I am so glad you have found her ! 
There was no reply ; for Sunshine , without sound or movement , suddenly opened her eyes , and fixed them upon her mother 's face , while deep in their blue depths grew a glad smile , breaking at last , like a veritable sungleam , all over her face , as , holding out her arms , she eagerly said , -- `` I 've come to heaven while I was asleep ; and you 're the angel that loves me so dearly well . 
-- and Dora 's arms and Dora 's heart were empty , robbed of the nestling they had cherished , -- empty , as she said to herself , turning from the sight of that maternal bliss , of the best love she had ever known , or could ever hope . 
Mr. Burroughs , who liked character-reading , watched her narrowly ; and when , presently , the whole party returned to Mrs. Legrange 's hotel , he quietly walked beside Dora , lingering a little , and detaining her out of hearing of Mrs. Legrange and Teddy , who walked on with Sunshine between them . 
Dora looked at him a little puzzled ; and then , as she read the half-sympathizing , half-mocking expression of his face , answered , -- `` You mean I am not happy in bringing Sunshine back to her mother ; do n't you ? '' 
I do n't want any reward , '' said Dora rather hastily . 
Dora 's clear eyes looked straight into his as she wonderingly asked , -- `` Do you want me to say I am sorry Mrs. Legrange has found her child ? '' 
`` And so I would , '' said Dora in the same tone ; `` but it is not true . 
I do not deny that my own heart is very sore , and that I can not yet think of her not being my child any more , without '' -- She turned away her head , and Mr. Burroughs looked at her yet more attentively than he had been looking . 
Word and honor now , Dora . '' 
`` No , Dora , I do not ; but , in your place , I should doubt myself . '' 
Dora looked at him with a frank smile . 
`` I would trust you in this place , or any other , '' said she simply . 
`` Would you , would you really , Dora ? '' 
`` Because I feel sure you could never do any thing mean or ungenerous , or feel any way but nobly '' -- She paused suddenly , and a tide of crimson suffused her face and neck . 
He would not add to her confusion by accepting as extraordinary the impulsive expression of her feelings . 
So he simply said , after a moment of silence , -- `` Thank you , Dora . 
Dora did not answer , but hastened her steps , until she walked close behind Mrs. Legrange ; nor did her companion speak again , although , could Dora have read his thoughts , she might have found in them matter of more interest than any words he had ever spoken to her . 
Ithad been Dora 's intention to return to Iowa immediately after leaving Sunshine in charge of her own friends ; but Mrs. Legrange insisted so urgently upon her remaining with them for some weeks at least , and the parting with the dear child she had so loved and cherished seemed so cruel as it drew nearer and nearer , that she finally consented to remain for a short time , and removed to the Neff House , where Mrs. Legrange had engaged rooms until the first of October . 
To other natures than those called to encounter it , the relation between these three might , for a time at least , have been painful and perplexing ; but Mrs. Legrange was possessed of such exquisite tact , Sunshine of such abounding and at the same time delicate affections , and Dora of such a noble and generous temper , that they could not but harmonize : and while ` Toinette bloomed , flower-like , into new and wonderful beauty bathed in the sunlight of a double love , Mrs. Legrange never forgot to associate Dora with herself as its source . 
And Dora joyed in her darling 's joy ; and , if her heart ached at thought of the coming loneliness , the pain expressed itself no otherwise than in an added tenderness . 
`` Because Dora can not travel home alone , and I think of accompanying her . 
Not till he reached its deepest recesses , however , did he find Dora ; and then he stood still to look at her , himself un-seen . 
He quietly approached , and seated himself beside her with a commonplace remark , -- `` A very pretty bit of scenery , Dora . '' 
`` I shall probably set out for home to-morrow , '' said Dora , turning away her head , and playing idly with the grass beside her . 
She did not see all the meaning of her words , poor child ! 
but her companion did , and smiled merrily to himself as he said , -- `` You mean , we do not come up to your standard , and you can not waste more time upon us ; do n't you ? '' 
Dora turned and looked at him , her suspicions roused by a mocking ring beneath the affected humility of his tone ; and , looking , she caught the covert smile not yet faded from his eyes . 
`` It is not kind , Mr. Burroughs , to laugh at me , or to try to confuse me in this way , '' said she steadily . 
Perhaps never had the self-contained heart of the young girl so framed itself in words ; certainly never had Mr. Burroughs so fully read it : and when she finished , and , neither turning from him nor toward him , steadfastly set her eyes forward , as one who sees mapped out before him the path he is to tread through all the coming years , he took her hand in his with a sudden impulse of tenderness , -- `` Dora , you will love some one yet ; and love will make you happy . '' 
I do not mean to love any one else , '' said Dora , quietly withdrawing her hand . 
Mr. Burroughs stared at her in astonishment ; and , with a directness more natural than conventional , exclaimed , -- `` You have loved twice already ! '' 
-- Dora gave way all at once , and , covering her face with her hands , burst into a passion of tears ; such tears as women seldom weep ; such tears as Dora herself had shed but two or three times in her short life . 
Mr. Burroughs sat for a moment , looking at her with a yearning tenderness in his eyes , and then folded her suddenly in his arms , whispering , -- `` Dora , Dora Darling ! 
But Dora repulsed him vehemently , sobbing , `` No , no , no ! 
You are quite wrong , Mr. Burroughs : you do not know '' -- She stopped in confusion . 
She had done sobbing now ; but she did not uncover her face , or look up . 
Mr. Burroughs regarded her with a strange expression , and then , taking her hand , said softly , -- `` Dora , I have not dared , as you fear that I have , to fancy that you cared for me . 
A moment ago , I should not have dared to ask you as I now do ; and remember , Dora , that I ask for the solemn truth , -- do you love me ? '' 
Dora tore away her hand indignantly , and attempted to rise . 
She had not spoken , or looked at him . 
But he only said , -- `` Dora , it will not be like you to leave me in this way . 
`` Why , Dora ? 
`` Dora , if you only knew how much more I stand in need of your pity than you of mine , if you only knew what kindness your life has already done mine , you would not treat me in this manner . '' 
exclaimed Dora , forgetting herself , and turning to look at him in naïve astonishment ; `` and for what ? '' 
`` For a purposeless and weary life ; for an empty heart and a corroded faith , '' said her lover bitterly ; `` for an indifference to men , amounting almost to aversion ; for a trifling estimate of women , amounting almost to contempt ; for wasted abilities and neglected opportunities , -- for all these , Dora , I need your pity , and have a right to claim it : for it is only since I loved you that I have recognized my own great needs and deficiencies . 
asked Dora shyly . 
Then , Dora , when I saw you , as I have seen you in these last weeks , struggling so nobly to render complete the sacrifice you came hither to make ; when I saw the sweetness , the power , the loftiness , and the divine truth , of your nature , shining more clearly day by day , and yourself the only one unconscious of the priceless value of such a nature , -- then , Dora , I came to know for truth what I tell you now , God hearing me , that you are the woman of all the world whom I love , honor , and undeservingly long to make my own . 
Once more , Dora , -- and you can not now refuse to answer me at least , -- once more I ask , do you or can you love me ? '' 
He grasped her hands in both his own , and his keen eyes read her very soul . 
She raised hers as steadily to meet them ; and , though the hot blush seemed to scorch her very brow , she answered , -- `` I did not know it , quite , until to-day ; but I believe -- I think -- I have cared about you ever since a year ago . 
That is , not love ; but every one else seemed less than they had been : and since I knew you here , and since I thought I must go home , and never see you any more , it was '' -- She faltered and stopped , drooping her head before the tender triumph of his glance . 
Truth had asserted herself , as with Dora she must have done in any stress , but now of a sudden found herself silenced by a timidity as charming as it was new in the strong and well-poised temperament of the girl , who , a moment before so brave , now stood trembling and blushing beneath her lover 's gaze . 
`` Dora , my own wife ! '' 
And Dora , hiding her face upon his breast , whispered again , -- `` I was so unhappy an hour ago ! 
Her lover answered by a mute caress ; for there are moments when words are all too weak for speech . 
And so he only clasped her closer in his arms , and bent his head upon her own ; while all about them the hundred voices of the summer noon whispered benediction on their joy ; the eddying stream paused in its whirl to dimple into laughter at their feet ; the sunlight , broken and flecked by the waving branches , fell in a shifting golden shower upon their beads ; and Nature , the great mother , through her myriad eyes and tongues , blessed the betrothal of her dearest child . 
From the other carriage , meantime , had alighted , without the good woman 's observation , Mr. Burroughs , Dora , Karl , and another , who , the moment her feet touched the ground , ran forward , crying , -- `` O mamma ! 
Dora , you and Kitty know the way even better than I ; and Mr. Windsor '' -- `` It is n't Mr. Windsor , it 's Karlo , mamma , '' persisted Sunshine , dancing up the narrow path in advance of the party . 
`` It was peeping out at that window I saw you first , Dora ; and I thought it must be the sunrise , '' whispered Tom Burroughs to the lady he escorted . 
The little girl came bounding toward them ; and Dora , with a wicked little laugh , slipped away , and up the stairs , to the room that had been Kitty 's , now appropriated to the use of the two young girls . 
What do you say , Dora ? '' 
`` No tongue for her , please ; she is supplied , '' remarked Mr. Burroughs sotto voce ; and Dora , with a little mutinous glance , passed her plate with , -- `` A slice of tongue , if you please , Mr. Legrange . '' 
`` Never mind : wait a few days , and we will see , '' murmured Burroughs threateningly ; and Dora did not care to retort , but , blushing brightly , began an eager conversation with Sunshine , who had nestled a chair in between those of her mother and Dora , and made lively claims upon the attention of both . 
Mrs. Legrange smiled a little at the satisfaction with which the Irish woman contemplated a superfluity , even when not belonging to herself ; and led the way to her own chamber , where sat Dora , as she had sat many a time within those four walls , holding Sunshine upon her lap , and , while loosening her clothes for the night , telling her one of the stories of which the child was never weary . 
`` And that is the reason she never would let me look at it , or open it , '' said Dora . 
Sunshine 's little hand went up rather forlornly to her bosom , robbed of what it so long had cherished ; and Dora clasped her tighter , and kissed her tenderly : but neither spoke , until Mrs. Legrange drew from the bag , and held before them , the coral bracelet , with its linked cameos , broken at one point by the force with which Mother Winch had torn it from the child 's shoulder , and with the clasp still closed . 
Mrs. Legrange opened it , touched the spring , causing the upper plate to fly up , and silently showed to Dora the name `` Antoinette Legrange '' engraved within . 
said she softly . 
Then , going to her jewel-case , she took out the mate , saved as a sacred relic since the day it had been found upon the floor in the drawing-room after ` Toinette 's flight , and handed it to the child , saying , -- `` Here is the other one , darling ; and you may , if you like , give it to Dora for your wedding-present . 
`` Will you take it , Dora , and some love , ever so much love , along with it ? '' 
said Sunshine , trying to make her little offering in somewhat the form she had heard from older people , but finishing with a sudden clasp of her arms about Dora 's neck , and a shower of kisses , among which came the whispered words , -- `` I love you ever and ever so much better than Cousin Tom does , Dora . 
Do n't you know it is my birthday , and , what is better , it is Dora 's wedding-day ? 
And the sun , hearing the appeal , stood suddenly upon the summit of the distant hills , shooting playful golden arrows into the child 's merry eyes , and among her floating hair , where they clung glittering and glancing ; while to her mind he seemed to say , -- `` Oh , yes , little namesake ! 
shouted Sunshine , as the fancy whirled through her busy little brain , `` it seems just as if the sun were kissing me for my birthday . '' 
The sun meantime , after a brief period of meditation , took his resolve ; and , sending back the brisk October day that had prepared to descend upon earth , he summoned , instead , the first day of the Indian Summer , and bade her go and help to celebrate the bridal of one of his favorite daughters , as she knew so well how to do . 
Then , wrapped in this bridal veil , she floated , still in the arms of the gentle wind , through the forests , touching their leaves with purer gold and richer crimson ; over the harvest-fields , whose shocks of lingering corn rustled responsive as her trailing garments swept past ; over wide , brown pastures , where the cattle nibbled luxuriously at the sweet after-math ; over lakes and rivers , where the waters slept content , forgetting , for the moment , their restless seaward march ; over sheltered gardens , where hollyhock and sunflower , petunia and pansy , dahlia and phlox , whispering together of the summer vanished and the frosty nights at hand , gave out the mysterious , melancholy perfume of an autumn day . 
`` Dora , where are you , love ? 
called a voice ; and Dora , peeping round the stem of the old oak at whose foot she sat , said shyly , -- `` Do you want me , Tom ? '' 
And how lovely you are to-day , Dora ! 
`` It never was my wedding-day before , '' whispered Dora ; and , like the summer day and the west wind , we will pass on , leaving these our lovers to their own fond folly , which yet is such wisdom as the philosophers and the savanscan never give us by theory or diagram . 
And , when I asked her what was the matter , she hugged me up tight , and said nobody cared for her , and nobody would ever love her same as Cousin Tom does Dora . 
And I told her , yes , they would , and maybe you would ; and then she said , ` Oh , no , no , no ! 
and then she cried harder than ever . 
Tell her you do n't ; wo n't you , Mr. Brown ? '' 
The chaplain looked much disturbed , and then very thoughtful ; but , as the child still urged him with her entreaties , he said , -- `` Yes , I will tell her so , Sunshine , but not just now . 
`` Dora , for instance ? '' 
I never can be Dora : now , could I ? '' 
I can hardly fancy my cousin Dora changed into a fine lady , and fretting herself thin over the color of a ribbon , or the trail of a skirt ; and I am not surprised that she finds what is called `` society '' puzzling and wearisome . 
Your life , Dora , began upon too wide a plan to bear narrowing down into conventional limits now ; and I feel through my own heart the thrill with which you wrote the words , -- `` I long for the opportunity of action and usefulness ; I long for the freedom of the prairie , and the dignity of labor ; I long to resume my old life , and to see my husband begin his new one . '' 
You and he , my dear Dora , seem to form not only a mutual-admiration , but a mutualencouragement and mutual-assistance society ; and I wish my partnership with Dr. Gershom was half as satisfactory an arrangement . 
And now , dear Dora , good-night , and good-by for a little while . 
