`` Keziah has gone for your gruel , '' said Virginia . 
`` Mast ' r Charles is gwine to get well , '' said Keziah to the eager questioners in the kitchen ; `` I seed it in his face the very moment I opened the do ' ; besides , I had a dream about him last night , and know 'd as soon as I woke up he would n't die this time . '' 
`` What was your dream , aunt Keziah ? '' 
Keziah was a privileged character in the kitchen and out of it . 
Few of her fellow-servants ever ventured to oppose her , and it would have been useless if they had been inclined to attempt it . 
To say that her will was iron , is to give but an inadequate idea of it , for its strength lay not only in passive resistance , but in active exertion , and so not another question was addressed to her by the chattering group , all full of anxiety to hear about Mas ' r Charles , and devoured by curiosity as to Keziah 's dream . 
Throwing aside the gaudier ones , Keziah selected some English violets , a half-blown rose-bud , and some geranium leaves , and arranging them in a champagne glass , with a taste no one would have imagined lay hidden under such harsh features and an expression so forbidding , she placed the simple but fragrant bouquet on the waiter , and proceeded to the sick-room . 
These symptoms of amendment could hardly have given greater pleasure to Virginia than they seemed to produce in Keziah . 
She strove in vain to retain her usual grim composure ; but the broad smile , which seldom appeared in Keziah 's face , yet when it did , produced a general illumination in that abode of gloom and sternness , was now a fixture there for several minutes . 
She was very anxious to see him , that he might encourage the hope newly sprung up in her heart ; her next thought was to impart her good tidings . 
Bidding Keziah remain , for the first time for many weeks she left the sick-room of her own free will , and hastened to find Mrs. Peyton . 
The carriage-house , with all it contained , had been burned just before Charles 's illness , and no one had thought yet of replacing their loss ; so a large covered wagon stood before the door , in which Keziah was carefully arranging a bed . 
Virginia took her seat by him , supporting him to prevent him from receiving too rude a jar in their progress . 
A native African , and separated from all his own family , he had but few else to love , although for Keziah he cherished an attachment as yet unrequited . 
`` Dat 's Keziah -- I knowed she 'd be coming , '' muttered Nathan ; and , in truth , at that moment Keziah 's gaunt figure and grim face appeared , unmoved by all the commotion she had left behind her . 
`` Go right straight back , Keziah , '' uttered Nathan , in a commanding voice ; `` we do n't want no women folks . '' 
Nathan was not a man who readily gave up what he intended to do , and therefore , from his not insisting on obedience from Keziah , it may be inferred he knew the hopelessness of the undertaking . 
Keziah had good cause for all the gratitude and devotion her conduct displayed . 
Ill treated from her earliest infancy , first by an unfeeling mother , whose punishments were all so many ingenious tortures , and who had twice been prevented by her master from killing her own child , having hung her up once with her head down , and at another time being caught dashing her up and down against a pile of bricks ; afterward falling under the power of a harsh and capricious owner , who , with a dim perception of her capabilities , and vexed at not knowing how to avail himself of them , determined , as he said , `` to beat her sulkiness out of her . '' 
Every week Keziah grew more obstinate , perverse , and sulky ; at times a strange fire gleamed in her eyes , like that which may be seen in a newly-encaged wild beast ; and if the mutterings of her restless lips could have been understood , she would have been guarded like some savage animal . 
The fell purposes she was nurturing in a soul tortured by desolation and cruelty into crime had not yet matured themselves into action , when , providentially , her whole life was changed , and with it , as if by magic , her character developed itself in feelings and acts before strange to her heart . 
As some deep valley , made damp and unwholesome from the dark shade of the overhanging trees , leaps into beauty and freshness when the sun 's rays fall unobstructed upon it , so great and entire a transformation did happiness produce in Keziah . 
Charles , when a mere boy , was sent by his father to Keziah 's master on an errand . 
As he was leaving , she crossed his path , returning to the quarter after one of the severest punishments she had ever received . 
Every nerve thrilling with agony , she walked with difficulty . 
His look fell compassionately on her . 
She raised her eyes , full of a dumb yet fierce despair , and met his kind glance . 
A sudden impulse seemed to tell her that here lay her only chance of salvation for this world or the next . 
Moved by an irresistible impulse , which she always declared came , not from herself , but the Lord , she stood for a moment , and , stretching out her trembling hands , exclaimed , `` Mas ' r Charles , will you buy me ? '' 
`` Yes , Keziah , I will , '' he replied , and rode off . 
`` Yes , father , I must do it , for I promised Keziah ; besides , I can do very well with old Roanoke and my gun ; the watch is the hardest thing to give up , '' and Charles sighed . 
`` Go tell her where she is to stay . '' 
You need not go to work in the field till you are quite well ; '' for Keziah 's languid step and heavy eye showed clearly that she had not yet recovered from her severe punishment . 
Fortunately , the management of Keziah was left entirely to Charles . 
She had learned his sacrifices for her , and her devotion to him knew no bounds . 
She begged to be allowed to wait upon him and attend to his wardrobe . 
Her uncouth figure and coarse hands seemed but ill fitted for any in-door work , especially the needle , but no shirts could have been more neatly stiched or elaborately made than Charles 's . 
The work she put upon one would have made three in the ordinary way . 
Her habits were peculiar . 
It was asserted for a long time that she never slept nor ate . 
But Charles , having investigated the matter , discovered that her only meal was a late but very substantial supper , and that she slept on the stairs , or threw herself , with no covering nor bed , on the floor in the passage leading to his room , or , if any one in the family were ill , near their door , so that , at the slightest noise , she was up and wide awake , to render any service that might be required . 
It was almost wonderful to see into how much responsibility and trust Keziah had gradually worked herself , and her influence over the other servants was hardly less than that of the master or mistress . 
Nathan was almost the only one who did not stand somewhat in awe of her , and even he never ventured to thwart her when she was bent on any object . 
So , much to Nathan 's discomfiture , Keziah , grasping the handle of a well-sharpened carving-knife , the blade of which was hidden in her dress , headed the march ; and doubtless , if she had been put to the proof , her yellow turban would have been , like Henry the Fourth 's white plume , a guide to the hottest of the fray . 
Excepting in the case of Keziah , he could remember no instance of self-denial that could excite their gratitude . 
Keziah was indignant at this interruption to the stillness that had prevailed . 
In angry tones she demanded silence , but in vain . 
`` Keziah , '' said Charles . 
Her great love seemed to quicken all her senses . 
`` Sing away , boys , '' said Keziah , with a condescending nod ; and again the strange harmony rose in the air . 
Keziah strided on far in advance of the rest , and , if it should prove to be the enemy approaching , woe to the first man that should cross her path . 
No womanish fears , no feminine tenderness was in her heart , but the fierceness and pitilessness of a lioness fighting for her young . 
Keziah accompanied the family , being unwilling to trust her young master to other hands until he was quite recovered . 
Dr. Parker 's family found their store-room and smoke-house completely emptied of their contents , and Mr. Carpenter , Keziah 's old master , you know , found every article of furniture or clothing he had left in his house had either been stolen or spoiled . 
I have not seen Keziah so pleased since you recovered as she was when she told me about it , for those floors had been a source of torment to her for years . 
She told me that there was not one in the whole house that had not caused her a whipping . '' 
Keziah now came up , having alighted from the wagon , and , by the aid of her general efficiency , fires were soon lighted in the different rooms , and an abundant supper -- a Virginia supper -- prepared for the once more happy family . 
`` I shall make the same proposal to Keziah that I have done to Nathan and the others , '' said he , `` but I do not suppose she will accept it . '' 
`` Oh , no , certainly not , '' exclaimed Virginia ; `` I should not wonder if she felt even more hurt than poor uncle Essex . '' 
But Keziah embraced the offer with an irrepressible delight most foreign to her nature . 
Mr. Peyton could not prevent a sensation of disappointment , for he had felt convinced that Keziah loved him too well to leave him . 
She instinctively divined his feeling . 
And she turned to go away ; but quickly changing her mind , she returned , raised her eyes , generally downcast and brooding , and fixed them , with a searching look , full on his face . 
`` No , Keziah , '' replied Mr. Peyton , the momentary feeling of disappointment having passed away ; `` probably you will be of more real service and advantage to me by the good effect your industry and honesty will have on your companions on the farm , than if you spent your life in my service . '' 
Nathan , with his wife Sally , and a family of six children , and Polydore , with his patient eyes still fixed on Keziah , who possessed a strange power over the docile giant , were among the most prominent of the band . 
Perhaps Keziah 's rebukes , sharp and decided , though rare , had some effect . 
He had selected a cabin close by hers , and employed all his leisure time in assisting the severe mistress of his soul in cultivating a little flower-garden she had planted ; for , great an anomaly as it might seem , Keziah was an ardent admirer of every thing beautiful or lovely in nature . 
Keziah opposed this decidedly , but , overruled by numbers , she yielded . 
Keziah 's de best man in de lot , and she keeps Polydore pretty well up to the mark ; but de rest -- dey work one day , and rest two . '' 
The reasons that he gave were , that the labor fell principally on himself , and those of his children who were able to work , Polydore and Keziah ; yet the others expected an equal share of the profits , and were inclined to find fault with him , on account of the falling off in their crops ; and if he managed to lay up any little store for himself , the rest evidently thought that , as long as it lasted , they had as good a right to it as he , and would come to him very much as they would have applied to a master , only with more freedom and importunity . 
In this emergency , he went in to consult with Keziah , who , pointing triumphantly to her undiminished stock of fuel , said , `` She 'd dare any lazy nigger to lay a finger on it . '' 
`` Yes , aunt Keziah , dat 's all right ; but , you see , I feels somehow like a father to dem all , and I ca n't see 'em suffer as long as dey are under me . '' 
Just then a clumsy shuffling and stamping was heard outside the door ; then a knocking , which , being answered by a loud `` Come in '' from Keziah , Polydore appeared , leaving , after the custom of the Turks , though probably unaware of the existence of such a nation or custom , his shoes outside . 
Keziah 's floor was not to be profaned by the mass of mud that Polydore gathered in his daily tramps ; for , like the Hebrews of old , he was content if he could supply his wants from day to day , giving , literally , the morrow no thought . 
`` You 've ben gone in de woods longer dan common , '' said Keziah . 
asked Keziah . 
`` You and uncle Nathan is two blessed fools , '' said Keziah , with a sort of resigned contempt , as she went to work mixing a hoe-cake in the most scientific manner , and , after placing it in the hot ashes to bake , began making an olla podridathat sent forth a most savory odor . 
While thus engaged , she kept up with Nathan a discussion of `` ways and means . '' 
When they differed in their opinion as to the best course to choose , they appealed to Polydore , who would gladly have acted the umpire with impartiality and dignity ; but his attention , distracted by the good things that were in preparation , he found it impossible , and , after chafing Keziah 's temper to the uttermost by several mal aproposanswers , he lapsed into a state of entire confusion , but placid satisfaction , and contented himself with clinching every proposal of hers with a `` ` Zackly so , Keziah , '' `` Dat 's all right , ole woman , '' until , soothed by his admiration , she resumed her usual grim composure , and placed the smoking viands before him . 
No fragments were left ; but when Keziah had removed the dishes , she said , `` You know , Polydore , this is a very important subjec ' Nathan and I are consultin ' about , and we want your ` pinion . '' 
`` ` Zackly so , Keziah ; I knows dat . 
Thus adjured , she went on to tell him that the subject they were conversing about was no less than the advantages that would spring from a division of the property , each one cultivating their own farm , instead of working it in common as they had been doing . 
It had a nice cushion and covering of bright chintz , which gave quite a brilliant look to Keziah 's little cabin ; but these only came out in pleasant weather , when visitors from Cedar Hill might be expected . 
When thus arrayed , Polydore never thought of occupying it , but now he had settled himself very comfortably , and , turning his head a little away from them , listened , apparently in motionless attention , to Nathan 's calm , slowly-spoken arguments , and Keziah 's pithy and decided remarks . 
`` He 's dead asleep , '' said Keziah . 
`` He 'll do what you want him to do , Keziah , '' said Nathan , with a gallant bow ; `` de ladies is mighty powerful over our weakness . '' 
Nathan was not much given to the vanity of complimenting , and Keziah appreciated his remark the more on that account . 
You see , Keziah , I feel troubled ` bout my chillun . 
The division of the land worked admirably for Nathan , Keziah , and Polydore . 
Keziah , for whose assistance then many a wish was breathed , was far away , and the charge of the sick devolved on Clara and aunt Abby . 
If they had shown more forethought and prudence , more of Nathan 's or Keziah 's spirit , he would have felt fewer misgivings about them ; but knowing the difficulties they had to contend against , and pleased to find they had fallen into no bad habits , he left them , hoping that his advice would have some effect , though he hardly ventured to expect it . 
At last he proposed an adjournment to Keziah 's cabin , that they might hear her opinion . 
It was a still , cold , starlight night , and as they approached they heard her voice , reading with great emphasis and feeling . 
`` Bless you , honey , yes , dese many years ; but Keziah calls him a backslider , and I dun no what else , because he will go to sleep in church , and he takes it all as meek as a lamb ; but he is a good man , fo ' true , if any body is . '' 
When they opened the cabin door , they found Keziah sitting upright in a rocking-chair , which had been her first purchase for herself , and reading by the light of a blazing fire of pine wood . 
Polydore was gazing mildly and sleepily upon her , endeavoring , hopelessly , to take in the full meaning of a hymn he had heard till he knew it by heart , with a patient wonder at his own want of feeling in being so little moved by it . 
As soon as Keziah comprehended the plan which Junius explained to her , she entered into it with all her heart . 
`` It is the very place for me , '' exclaimed she ; `` I would go there to-morrow if I could . '' 
`` Oh , Keziah , do n't say so ; if you only knew what I know ` bout Africa , you would never want to see it again , '' said Polydore , wide awake for once . 
`` Do n't go , Keziah , please do , do n't . 
`` Nobody said any thin ' about your goin ' , '' retorted Keziah ; `` stay here , if you want to , and be a nigger all your life ; but I thinks defferently . '' 
At last he broke forth in a history of his early years . 
For the first time in his life he was almost eloquent , while relating , in his broken language , all that he had seen and suffered . 
He spoke of the devil-man , a frightful figure that came out of a thicket near his native village , and frightened every one by his terrible howlings . 
And now , Keziah , I tink I be mighty fool to leave all dese tings . 
I 's worth two of you any day , '' replied Keziah . 
`` Dese arms is wort ' somethin' , Keziah , '' said Polydore , stretching out limbs that might have rivaled Samson 's . 
`` De arms is good enough , '' replied Keziah , scornfully , yet not without a certain degree of admiration in her look , which strength , either of body or mind , always extorted from her , `` but what 's de good of strong arms when de heart is a coward 's ? '' 
`` I was n't tinking of making an offerin ' of myself , '' said Polydore , resentfully ; `` only to you , Keziah , '' he added , in a softer tone . 
Keziah pretended to pass over in silent disdain the last few words , but they did not fail to make an impression on her long-besieged heart . 
Its defenses were fast giving way ; yet , showing no outward sign of the weakness within , she replied , `` Dat wo n't do at all , Polydore ; we must make up our minds to be missionaries , and do de Lord 's work as well as our own . 
-- `` ` Fact , '' continued Keziah , warming up , `` I would n't be a bit afraid to go and live right among 'em , if I tought I could do dem any good dat way . '' 
`` Do n't talk so , Keziah , do , do n't , '' said Polydore , boseechingly , `` you do n't know what dey is . '' 
asked Keziah . 
Keziah 's warm approbation revived Junius 's zeal , and Nathan caught a little of her ardor , and agreed that , if he could look upon the matter in the same light that she did , he would be ready to embark in the first ship . 
Keziah was a lover of freedom from instinct and nature rather than reflection . 
While a slave , as long as she was treated like one , she had rebelled almost to death ; when brought under kinder influences , and while yielding , from gratitude and affection , the most entire devotion , the Peytons could not help perceiving that the more she was allowed to consider the service one of free will , the more heartily was it performed . 
She had received with delight the gift of personal liberty ; and now the prospect of a home , where the overshadowing influence of the white man would not be felt , destroying every hope of self-elevation , and almost paralyzing the wish , was welcomed as a gift from Heaven . 
Nathan had a slower , calmer mind , and was more inclined to consider the difficulties and objections , `` the lions in the way , '' than Keziah . 
But Keziah 's warmth and firmness of purpose was of great use in awakening his naturally sluggish feelings , and in preventing his interest from flagging in any subject that occupied them both . 
He found Keziah also more and more bent on leaving a country where the sense of her degraded position had always been a heavy burden to her . 
But Nathan still shrank from the untried experiment , and it was at last decided that Keziah , Polydore , and Junius should go out among the first emigrants , and if their report were favorable , Nathan , with his wife and the rest of his family , should follow . 
It was well that some one had took it upon himself to attend to Polydore , otherwise he would have fared but badly , as he never seemed to think it even possible that he might need any thing , but sat , when not attending to some errand for Keziah , with his head resting on his hands and his elbows on his knees , absorbed in melancholy thought , or lost in slumber . 
Polydore , to whom Keziah had held up almost daily , during the voyage , Lot 's wife as a warning , an example to be shunned , fell back so readily into the habits of his childhood , that the danger now appeared to be that he would forget all that he had learned of civilization , and become once more an indolent , self-indulgent savage . 
These were the faint-hearted ones , among whom neither Lott Cary nor Keziah could be placed . 
The colonists were soon removed there ; and although this delay was a great disappointment to Keziah , and troubled her more than all the other trials that had befallen her since she had left Virginia , yet her active and practically useful mind prevented her from being contented to spend the time thus given to her in idle waiting . 
She busied herself in teaching any native children , who would attend to her , the various little arts of civilized life which they could most readily understand , and soon found herself surrounded by quite a number of pupils , who , although they came and went as they pleased , yet gave in a short time such evident tokens of improvement , that Keziah could not help thinking it was for some good purpose she had thus been forced to cease from active exertion on her own account . 
Keziah 's heart was filled with delight when she first landed at her new home ; and to all the colonists , the prospect of a safe and pleasant abiding-place , after a season of so much uncertainty and long delay , was delightful . 
Keziah , with her usual discrimination , selected for herself and Polydore , for their interests were at last united , a fine tract of land , lying a little out of the village . 
A thatched cottage was soon built upon it , and both she and Polydore worked industriously to clear the land and prepare it for planting . 
Keziah was one of the few who persevered in endeavoring to cultivate the land , and every year it became easier . 
Each failure , instead of discouraging her , was only a new lesson ; she learned from them what seasons were most adapted to certain grains and vegetables , and what seeds were best suited to the soil . 
All the time she could spare from her own cares she devoted to teaching the native women and children , who frequently visited her . 
Keziah longed to do the same , but the charge of the farm engrossed her too much ; for , although Polydore took the labor upon himself , the direction fell to his wife , who would have been by no means willing to relinquish it . 
When Keziah proposed this plan to the savages around her , it was eagerly embraced , and such a number of children were offered , that she found her difficulty lay in selecting and refusing , not in obtaining . 
Not long after this addition to her cares , Polydore returned from the village , already become a place of some importance , with the news that a slave-ship had been taken , and that its cargo was about to be landed at Liberia . 
Keziah 's heart instantly responded to this appeal , and she offered to provide food and shelter for four if they were sent to her . 
Fortunately , the cargo was a small one , the ship having been captured before it was fully loaded , and only two were intrusted to Keziah 's kindness . 
More miserable objects had seldom been seen than were these when they first reached her hospitable door . 
Indeed , Polydore had been obliged to carry one of them up the hill leading to the cottage , for he had fallen from weakness while attempting to ascend it . 
But before the end of a month , Keziah was surprised to observe the great change that had taken place in them . 
His pipe , which was his great resource in trouble , was in almost constant use . 
He would sit for hours smoking and gazing into the face of the larger of the savages , without uttering a word . 
Keziah , meanwhile , was endeavoring to teach them English , in which she succeeded but indifferently ; but every word they addressed to each other in their own tongue affected Polydore strangely . 
At length , one day when he was left alone with them , he approached the one who seemed to interest him so deeply , and addressed a single word to him . 
Again Polydore repeated the word , as though he were asking some question . 
The savage nodded , and quietly replenishing his pipe , Polydore seated himself in the door of the cabin , looking steadfastly in the direction from which he might expect his wife . 
He knew that she was gone out on some business that would detain her several hours longer ; but even watching for her was such a relief to his mind , that he would have preferred to sit there all day to any active occupation . 
Noticing the wistful glance he cast upon her , she stopped and asked him what he wanted . 
`` Keziah , dat 's my brother . '' 
Keziah found , on entering her cottage , that the savage had relapsed into his usual state of apathy . 
It was some time before she could induce him even to try to understand the news she labored to impart to him . 
When he did fairly comprehend it , it seemed to produce but little effect upon him . 
But both Polydore and Keziah being unwearying in their endeavors to instruct him , they soon had the pleasure of being able to understand his broken English . 
From that time his improvement was more rapid . 
He consented to take the land usually allotted to every settler , and they helped him to build a cottage for himself near them . 
Whether Keziah 's earnest exhortations , or the silent influence of Polydore 's example had the most effect , can not be known now , but before three years had passed by they had the unspeakable delight of welcoming him as a member of the same fold , and under the same shepherd with themselves . 
asked Keziah . 
I know Nathan and Keziah very well . 
Do n't you ` member Colin Teage , that came over here the same time Keziah and I came ? 
Once Keziah said she meant to make some use of it , to pay her for all the labor it had cost her , and she made some very nice indigo , that my wife dyed these stockings with ; but it was a good deal of trouble , and she has not tried to make any more . 
Keziah has one small tree on her place , and she gets cotton enough from that to knit all the stockings her family need during the year , and she has quite a large one . '' 
Keziah 's adopted children were also there . 
One of them was married , and settled on an adjoining place ; the other was still a member of Keziah 's family . 
Ben and Clara were too much occupied in asking and answering questions of personal interest to gain many new ideas on the subject of Liberian affairs ; but the next morning Keziah took them over her farm , and showed them her arrangements with no little pride . 
Nathan had warned Ben beforehand not to think that every place in Liberia was as well attended to as Keziah 's . 
`` You know , '' said Keziah , `` that every single man receives five acres of good land when he comes here . 
`` Here are a few cotton trees , '' continued Keziah . 
`` This is my orchard , '' continued Keziah , as they stood in a little grove of fruit trees . 
The orange-trees , laden with their golden fruit hanging just above their reach , was a strong temptation , and Keziah could not resist their entreaties . 
`` That is the guava-tree , '' said Keziah , pointing to one about as large as a peach-tree ; `` and that other is the mango plum . 
`` Here is my vegetable garden , '' continued she . 
`` Some people call it African cayenne , '' said Keziah . 
`` Oh , you have not heard half of them yet , '' said Keziah ; `` there are ground-nuts that can be gathered by the barrelful , and very fine ginger growing in the greatest abundance . 
`` They are just beginning to understand it , '' said Keziah . 
`` It is a very fair quantity , '' said Keziah ; `` they often do not yield as much as that ; though I have one tree that I gathered twenty pounds from last year . '' 
`` Besides all these , '' continued Keziah , `` the bean that castor-oil is made from grows wild here , and the Croton oil is made from the seeds of one of our bushes . 
`` That is my fence , '' replied Keziah ; `` you see I have only a small place , and I wanted to keep it as nice as possible ; so Polydore found those bushes in the woods , and we made a hedge all around our farm with them . 
`` By the time they had examined Keziah 's place in all its details , the sun was so warm that she thought it unsafe for them to expose themselves to its influence longer . 
After dinner , in which a nicely cured ham , and plump turkey , and sweet potatoes showed their familiar faces amid a variety of strange vegetables , Keziah left her guests to attend to her school . 
This consisted of about a dozen native children , and a few women whom she had collected , and was teaching to read and sew . 
The African girl whom she had brought up taught them in the morning , and Keziah usually devoted an hour or two in the afternoon to them , being regarded by these ignorant and docile children of the forest as a wonder in learning and skill . 
Late in the afternoon she walked over with Ben and Clara to Nathan 's place . 
`` That belongs to Polydore 's brother , '' said Keziah ; `` we ca n't make him believe that it is at all worth while to take the least trouble to keep things in order . 
They reached at last a substantial farm-house , standing in the midst of a well-cleared and cultivated plantation of about forty acres , which Keziah informed them , belonged to Nathan . 
Keziah informed them that , besides attending to his farm , he preached every Sunday to the natives , and had collected from among them quite a large Sunday-school . 
`` The Africans are mighty curious to know how to read , '' said she ; `` they think that it is the book learning that makes us so much ahead of them in every thing . 
Keziah is a fust-rate doctor ; she has nussed I do n't know how many people through it , and knows jest what to do . '' 
At first it was rather severe , and he was somewhat alarmed ; but Keziah , knowing by experience that the most effectual cure in such cases was to prevent the patient from desponding , and to keep his mind as calm as possible , assured him that he was in no real danger . 
`` Just think you are going to get well , '' said she , `` and you will sure . 
`` People do n't always get off clear with one fit of sickness , '' said Keziah ; `` sometimes they have several attacks in the first few months . 
