`` Dear me , ma 'm , '' interrupted Lucy , `` it was to make myself of consequence that I did it ; for lady Mary , here at home , says I am nobody , an insignificant Miss Mushroom , but sergeant Blandford calls me his guardian angel , his comforter ; and I am sure those are titles of consequence . '' 
`` Then if you say so sir , I will never do it again ; but indeed you do not know how happy my visits make old Mr. Blandford ; you know , sir , he is very poor ; so Lady Mary would not go with me if I asked her ; and he is very lame , so if Aura went with me , she is such a mad-cap , perhaps she might laugh at him ; besides , when I sometimes ask Mrs. Matthews to let her walk with me , she has something for her to do , and can not spare her . '' 
Ill health secluded her from company , and finding her dear Mary averse from study , she sought in a governess for her daughter , more an easy companion for herself , than a conscientious able instructress for her child . 
Sometimes she would tempt Lady Mary to ramble with her , but that young lady but little understood the common incidents , and necessities of life , and even had she comprehended them ever so well , she was so thoughtless in her expenditure on dress and trifles , that she seldom had any thing to bestow . 
One evening Lady Mary had been walking with a young lady in the neighbourhood , whose tastes and feelings resembled her own , when , just as the family were preparing to take their tea , she rushed into the parlour and in a flood of tears exclaimed , `` Oh , my dear sir , my kind Mr. Matthews , if you do not help me I shall lose my senses . '' 
said he , approaching the seat on which she had thrown herself in an attitude of the utmost distress . 
`` Oh , sir , '' said she , sobbing , `` I must have five guineas directly , for I wanted so many things when you paid me my last quarter 's allowance , that I have not a guinea left . '' 
asked he smiling , and placing a chair near the tea table , he motioned with his hand for her to draw nigh and partake the social meal , for which the rest of the family were now waiting . 
`` I can not eat , indeed I can not , sir , '' she replied with an hysterical sob , `` I can do nothing till you comply with my request . '' 
Five guineas , Lady Mary , is a considerable sum ; it should not be hastily or unadvisedly lavished away . 
But come , Mary Lumly , '' for so the good man was wont to call her when he was pleased with her , `` come , draw nigh and take your tea , after which you shall tell your story and to-morrow morning we will see what can be done . '' 
exclaimed she wildly , `` to-morrow , it may be too late , they are suffering the extremity of want , and are you so cold hearted as to talk of to-morrow ? '' 
Resentment at being spoken to , in so plain a style , soon dried Lady Mary 's tears . 
She seated herself at the tea table , took her cup , played with her spoon , poured the tea into the saucer , then back into the cup ; in short , did every thing but drink it . 
Lady Mary 's excessive enthusiasm had by this time considerably abated , but she felt somewhat vexed at the plain , well meant reproof of Mrs. Cavendish . 
-- Lady Mary coloured highly . 
`` The evening is really very fine , '' said the good Rector , `` come , Mary , you and I will go and inhale the sweets of the flowers , '' then drawing her arm under his , he led her into the garden . 
`` I think you were very imprudent , Mary , you might have encountered ill bred clowns or evil minded persons who would have insulted you . '' 
Lady Mary 's lip quivered , Mr. Matthews pressed her hand and said , `` But the poor old Granny ? 
`` Why this is a most deplorable tale , my dear Mary . '' 
`` It was not curiosity , Mary , it was a better feeling : but had you been mistress of five guineas , and had them in your purse at that moment would you have given them ? '' 
The next morning Lady Mary , who was not an early riser , and did not generally make her appearance till the rest of the family were seated at the breakfast table , was surprised , upon entering the parlour , to find Miss Blakeney , and Miss Melville had just returned from a walk in which they had been accompanied by their guardian , their hair disordered by the morning breeze and their countenances glowing with health and pleasure . 
The morning was fine , and Lady Mary hoping he would take the path through the copse , readily assented , and being soon equipped for her walk , gaily tripped by his side till she found that he took a directly opposite path to what she had expected . 
`` I was in hopes you would have gone with me to visit the poor people I mentioned , '' said she in rather a supplicating voice . 
asked Lady Mary , with a look of wonder at the woman 's expression of contentment , when there was so much apparent wretchedness around her . 
`` Dear me , that is very terrible , '' said Lady Mary , `` how can you possibly live , how do you get time to work . '' 
repeated the astonished Mary , `` can four people live on five shillings a week ? '' 
The tears which had for some time trembled in Lady Mary 's eyes , now rushed down her cheeks , she drew forth her empty purse and looked beseechingly at Mr. Matthews . 
He did not particularly notice her , but asked , `` Does the doctor attend you regularly ? 
`` My dear sir , '' said Lady Mary when they had left the cottage , `` what a trifle you gave to that distressed family . '' 
`` Mary , '' replied the Rector , `` it is not the bestowing large sums that constitutes real benevolence , nor do such donations ultimately benefit the persons on whom they are bestowed , they rather serve to paralyze the hand of industry , while they lead the individual to depend on adventitious circumstances for relief , instead of exerting his own energies to soften or surmount the difficulties with which he may be surrounded . '' 
Many other calls were made in the course of the morning , till at length they stopped at a very small cottage , and on entering , Mary was struck with the appearance of an elderly man and woman both seemingly past the period of being useful either to themselves or others . 
A few embers were in the grate , over which hung a teakettle , and on a deal table stood a pewter teapot , some yellow cups and saucers and a piece of the same kind of bread , the sight of which had filled her with such disgust the evening before , a little dark brown sugar and about a gill of skimmed milk completed the preparation for their humble meal . 
The old dame laid down the patchwork with which she had been employing herself , and her husband closed the bible in which he was reading . 
`` Thankful , '' said Lady Mary internally , `` thankful for such a poor shed to keep them from the weather , such a miserable looking bed to rest their old limbs upon , and some black tea and dry bread for their only meal . '' 
Mr. Matthews saw that she was struck , and willing to give her time for rumination sat down beside the old man on a stool . 
The only vacant wooden chair being dusted by the dame , Lady Mary seated herself and pursuing her train of thought , audibly said . 
`` Ah no , lady , '' she replied , `` what right have I to expect more than others ; how many thousands in this kingdom have not even a hovel to shelter them , scarcely a rag to cover them , and only the bare ground to sleep on , whilst their poor children beg their daily bread from door to door . '' 
said Lady Mary , and her cheek assumed a marble hue . 
Thus encouraged , Gammer Lonsdale again addressed her attentive auditor . 
And now , Mary , let me advise you , never to use the term methodist in this way again . 
Dame Lonsdale and her husband are good pious members of the church of England ; they are what every christian should be , humble , devout , and grateful , but let the mode in which they worship , be what it may , if they are sincere , they will be accepted : there are many roads to the foot of the cross , and whichever may be taken , if it is pursued with a pure and upright heart , is safe , and He who suffered on it , will remove every burthen from us whether it be earthly affliction , or sorrow for committed offences . '' 
While Mr. Matthews was speaking , a sudden turn in the road made Lady Mary start , for she beheld just before her , the identical cottage to which she had been so desirous to come when they first began their ramble . 
`` AsI live , sir , '' said she in delight , `` there is the place I wanted to visit . '' 
Every thing wore such a look of comfort , that Lady Mary thought she had mistaken the place . 
said Lady Mary , looking at Mr. Matthews , `` I fancy I know who the fairies were . '' 
`` Now , Mary , '' said he smiling , `` how much do you think those fairies whom you so shrewdly guess at , expended for all the comforts and conveniences , these poor people seem to have acquired , since last evening . '' 
a great deal , '' said she , `` more than five guineas , I dare say . 
Thus , in walking , chatting , making various calls , and commenting on the scenes they witnessed , time passed unobserved by Lady Mary . 
said Mary , `` I am afraid we shall have dinner waiting . '' 
They had now a mile to walk , and Lady Mary assured the Rector that she was `` very , very hungry ! '' 
`` Come , '' said Mr. Matthews , `` sit down , Mary , you say you are hungry , we will waive ceremony on this occasion , and you shall dine in your morning dress . 
`` Well , well , we must do as well as we can , '' said he , laying a slice of mutton and one of the turnips , on Lady Mary 's plate . 
She did not wait for other sauce than a keen appetite , but having dispatched two or three slices of the meat , with a good quantity of the vegetable and bread , declared she never had relished a dinner so well in her life . 
Here Mr. Matthews pretended to sob ; when Lady Mary comprehending the ridicule , burst out a laughing . 
`` Dear Sir , '' said Lady Mary , `` you have this day taught me a lesson that I trust through life I shall never forget . '' 
During the six pleasantest months , masters in music and drawing , from Southampton , attended Lady Mary and Miss Blakeney , and the other six , they employed themselves in imparting what they had gained to Aura Melville , in her leisure hours . 
Thus they were improved in a far greater degree , by the attention necessary to bestow on every acquirement in which they were desirous to instruct her . 
Lady Mary , indeed , could have fancied herself in love with Edward , and often in the most pathetic terms lamented to her young companions that he was not nobly born , he was so handsome , so generous , so gallant . 
`` Yes , '' said Aura , with an arch glance from under her long eyelashes , `` so generally gallant that no one can have the vanity to suppose herself a particular favourite . '' 
Lady Mary was afraid of Aura , her wit , though in general harmlessly playful , was sometimes sarcastic , and the vain girl of quality often smarted under its lash , and if she met the steady eye of Aura , at a time when she was displaying airs of self complacency , her own would sink under it . 
Thus every circumstance coincided to establish the general idea entertained that Aura was the independent heiress , Lady Mary , a young person of rank , with only a moderate fortune , and Lucy Blakeney , the orphan , depending on the kindness of Mr. Matthews . 
It was on one of those mornings when the visitants of Brighton sally forth to ransack libraries , torment shopkeepers , and lounge upon the Stiene , when Edward Ainslie taking Lucy under one arm and Lady Mary under the other , having taken a walk upon the downs , strolled into one of the public Libraries , where raffles , scandal and flirtation were going forward amongst an heterogeneous crowd , assembled there . 
said Lady Mary , as she seated herself , `` he has neglected us all last evening and this morning , and I shall scold him well when I see him again . '' 
While Lady Mary said , `` Dear ! 
Lady Mary had become skilful in the language of heraldry , under the tuition of her mother , who doated on rank , pedigree , & c. and could have held forth for hours on the crests , supporters , mottoes , and heraldic bearings of most of the noble families in England . 
Lady Mary was wild with delight , even Lucy felt somewhat exhilirated at the idea of a ball where all the splendor and fashion of the place would assemble , and where it was expected some personages of exalted rank would make their appearance . 
The morning after the ball Lady Mary held forth for a full hour upon the splendid appearance , gallant manners , and evident admiration of a young baronet , who had danced , flirted , and flattered , till he had stirred up a strange commotion in her little vain heart . 
`` Why , yes , as far as tolerable features , good eyes and teeth , with more than tolerable dress goes , I think he is passable ; but my dear Lady Mary , he has no noble blood in his veins : his Grandfather was onlyLord Mayor of London , and you know you told me your mother would not rest in her grave if you matched with aught below nobility . 
Now , Sir Stephen Haynes 's father and his father before him , were only stationers and booksellers -- and who knows , my pretty Mary -- LadyMary , I beg your pardon -- who knows but this very Sir Stephen Haynes , may on the female side be a collateral descendant of the renowned Whittington , who made such a fortunate voyage to St. Helena with his cat . '' 
Lady Mary would have left the parlour in a pet , but that she hoped the Baronet would call in the course of the morning . 
He did so , and exercised the art of flattery so successfully , that Mary Lumley totally forgot the expressions of her dying mother , about her degrading herself by a plebeian marriage , and began to think she could be well content to be Lady Mary Haynes , though her husband was not a sprig of nobility . 
He thought that Mary Lumley had many good natural qualities ; he saw that they had been injured by the injudicious conduct of her mother ; he had endeavoured to rectify some of her romantic notions and in some measure he had succeeded , but he knew enough of human nature , to be quite aware that when love and romance unite in the mind of a volatile young woman , there is scarcely a possibility of restraining her from taking her own way . 
In three months Lady Mary would be her own mistress , and though her fortune was but trifling , yet settled on herself it might secure to her those comforts and conveniencies of life to which she had ever been accustomed . 
`` Mary Lumley has good sense , '' said he to himself , `` I will speak to her upon this momentous subject . 
For what will her seven thousand pounds do ? 
It will not clear him of incumbrances , and when it is gone , what is she to do ? 
Mary , '' said he , addressing her one morning when she was alone with him in the breakfast parlour , `` does this young man , who is such a favourite with you , aspire to your hand ? '' 
Lady Mary looked foolish . 
`` Well Mary , allow me to tell you that he is a bankrupt in both fortune and character . 
Such men , Mary , may from passion , or from interest , protest that they love you : -- But , the passion gratified , the interested motives either complied with or disappointed -LRB- 't is of no consequence which -RRB- the stimulus loses its force , and the ardent lover sinks into the domestic tyrant , or the unfeeling savage . '' 
`` I can not think , sir , '' said Lady Mary , `` that Sir Stephen will degenerate into either . '' 
`` I would hope , Mary Lumley , '' he replied , `` that you will not take a step of such consequence to your future peace as a matrimonial union , without exercising , not only your own understanding , but consulting me , the guardian under whom you were placed , and whose knowledge of the world will enable him to direct you to avoid those rocks and quicksands on which the voyagers of youth and inexperience are liable to be wrecked . 
`` I shall not marry directly , sir , '' said she , `` and I believe in a short period the law will consider me of an age to dispose of my own person , and take care of my own interest . '' 
`` That is very true , '' said Mr. Matthews , with a sigh , `` but let me conjure you , Lady Mary , not to be precipitate . 
`` Then , Mary , let him prove the truth of his assertion by settling the whole of your fortune on yourself . '' 
`` What , sir , when his mind is so liberal , shall I prove myself a narrow minded selfish wretch , who has no confidence in the man she is about to make her husband ? 
Lady Mary left the room almost in tears , and Mr. Matthews in order to compose his temper , which had been somewhat irritated by this unpleasant discussion , walked towards the Stiene . 
`` What is the matter , Lady Mary , '' said Miss Blakeney , as she encountered her young associate on the stairs . 
`` You are mistaken , Lady Mary , I have no idea of romantic attachments , and laugh when I hear of love at first sight . 
The first attended his father to London ; the second was on the turf , dashing away upon the credit of intending soon to marry Lady Mary Lumley , whom he represented as a rich heiress ; and the third confined to Brighton by his remaining term of duty . 
`` Where in the world can Mary Lumley be , '' said Mrs. Cavendish , as the evening drew in , and the chill air of October reminded the inmates of Mr. Matthews ' mansion , that no one could be walking for pleasure at that hour . 
Lady Mary had gone out in the morning expressing her intention of spending the day with Miss Brenton . 
Mr. Matthews in his anxiety preceded the servant to the door , and was well convinced by the precipitate retreat of the person who accompanied Lady Mary that it was no menial ; nay , he fancied that he saw him kiss her hand , as he opened the door for her admittance . 
`` You are imprudent , Mary , '' said the anxious guardian , `` to be out so late on this chilly evening , and with such slight covering . 
`` And does Lady Mary Lumley allow herself to be escorted the distance of nearly a mile in an unfrequented road , at this hour , by a stranger ? '' 
`` Nor to you , Mary , or I am mistaken . '' 
-- `` I have seen him before , '' said she , hesitating , `` I have met him several times , '' and taking a light from the sideboard where several were placed , she left the room . 
`` Mary will throw herself away , '' said Mrs. Matthews . 
`` Then she must abide the consequences , '' replied Mrs. Cavendish . '' 
His manners to Lady Mary were polite , but distant , and her guardian began to surmise that he had altered his plans , and had some wealthier prize in view ; he was therefore thrown off his guard , and determined to take no further notice of the subject to his fair ward . 
The seventeenth of February was Lady Mary 's birth day , that ardently desired day which freed her from the trammels of restraint , and made her , as she joyously expressed it , when Lucy and Aura affectionately kissed her and gave their congratulations , a free and independent agent . 
At one o'clock , the writings necessary being prepared , Lady Mary was put in possession of her little fortune . 
Lady Mary appeared indifferent ; but three days before their intended departure , she shewed Miss Blakeney a letter which she had received from Miss Brenton , which stated that she was going to pass Easter with an aunt who lived near Windsor , and entreated Lady Mary to accompany her . 
As Lady Mary pronounced the words , poor mother , a deep blush suffused her face and neck , and her voice faltered almost to a sob , as she finished the sentence . 
Lucy Blakeney did not want discernment ; she looked earnestly at Lady Mary , and catching her hand , said tenderly , yet emphatically , `` But do not go to see it now , dear Mary , go with us into Hampshire , and I promise you when I am of age , which you know will be soon , we will make a most delectable excursion , take dear Guardy and Ma-Matthews , majestic Mrs. Cavendish and our lively Aura , and setting out in search of adventures , storm Windsor Castle in the course of our route ; and you shall repeat all your lamented mother told you , for you know she was better acquainted with history than we are , especially when it was any thing concerning Kings and Princes , Dukes and Lords . '' 
Now all this was said in a playful good humoured manner : But at her heart Lucy feared this excursion with Miss Brenton would lead to no good . 
`` I can not retract my promise , dear Lucy , '' said Mary , in a soft tremulous voice , `` Miss Brenton will be in town to-night , and will call for me to-morrow as she proceeds to Windsor . '' 
`` Would it not have been as well to have consulted '' -- Lucy would have proceeded , but Lady Mary stopped her with , `` I can not consent to ask leave of the stiff Mr. Matthews , his precise Lady , and the dictatorial Mrs. Cavendish . '' 
Lady Mary , '' replied Lucy , with something of sternness in her voice : `` can you forget the parental kindness they have shewn you for five years past ? 
`` I never shall forget what I owe them , Miss Blakeney , '' she replied , `` but I can not consent to solicit permission to do what I like , and go where I please , from persons who , however good in their way , have no right now to control me . 
When she had left the room , Lucy stood for a moment irresolute what course to pursue . 
`` It will do no good , '' said she mentally , `` to distress the family by mentioning this intended excursion , which however they may disapprove , they can not prevent ; and perhaps I judge too hardly of Lady Mary , when I think there is some other point in view than merely visiting Windsor Castle . '' 
Thus resolving upon silence , she joined the family at dinner , and found , to her surprise , that Lady Mary had complained of a head ache and requested to have some trifling refreshment in her own apartment . 
The next morning at breakfast , no Lady Mary appeared , and when the footman was desired to send one of the female servants to call her , he replied , `` Lady Mary is not in the house . '' 
`` Be not too much alarmed , '' said Lucy Blakeney , `` I believe Lady Mary was engaged in a pleasurable excursion to Windsor , with Miss Brenton , who arrived in town last evening , and was proceeding thither to visit her aunt . 
She mentioned it to me yesterday , but said they should not leave town till noon , and that at breakfast she would take leave of the family . 
Perhaps her friend went earlier than she expected , and Mary Lumley did not like to have the family disturbed , but I have no doubt she has left some letter or message . '' 
`` Lady Mary left the house at four o'clock in the morning , '' said the footman , `` she went out through the area , because she was afraid of making a noise to alarm any one , the chaise did not draw up to the house , but stood at the bottom of the street . 
`` Where is Lady Mary Lumley gone ? '' 
`` To Windsor , with her friend Miss Brenton , '' she replied , pertly . 
`` Did she leave no letter or message , girl ? '' 
`` Stop , '' said he , when the girl gave him a sealed billet , `` why did you assist her out of the house in so clandestine a manner ? 
Why not boldly open the front door , have the carriage drawn up , and call one of my servants to have adjusted her baggage , and if necessary to have proceeded with her ? '' 
`` 'Cause the poor dear lady cried , and said you and my ladies there wanted to make a slave of her , when she was as free to act for herself as you was , and if you knew of her going you would try to stop her . '' 
`` The die is east , '' said he , `` poor Mary Lumley , thou art fallen into bad hands . 
-- That Miss Brenton has been of great injury to the unfortunate girl , for nothing can be more prejudicial to a young woman of strong imagination and ill regulated feelings , than those kind of artificial friendships and tender confidences , where flattery is substituted for real affection , and mutual self-complacency for disinterested attachment ; where self willed folly is dignified with the name of enthusiastic liberality of sentiment , and the excitement of gratified vanity is mistaken for unchangeable , exalted love ; such , I am persuaded , was the only friendship that subsisted between Julia Brenton , and our thoughtless Mary Lumley , and by her she has been led on to adopt the idea of `` All for Love or the World well lost , '' and to act upon that mischievous , I could almost say dissolute principle . '' 
`` I always knew Lady Mary to be vain and thoughtless , and from the romantic bias given to her early ideas easily led and highly enthusiastic , '' said Aura Melville , `` but I do believe her mind is pure . '' 
Mr. Matthews walked to Sir Robert Ainslie 's , and discovered that the whole of Lady Mary 's fortune had been the day before withdrawn from his hands , where it had been placed by her guardian on delivering up his trust , by an order under her own signature . '' 
principal and the few hundreds of interest I had saved for her , that she might have a little store to supply her purse upon coming of age ? '' 
That indeed was dated from Windsor , but she appeared totally ignorant of the marriage of Lady Mary , or the active part her daughter had taken in the affair . 
ThoughSir Stephen Haynes had proposed to the credulous Lady Mary the delightful excursions which she stated in her letter to Mr. Matthews , he never seriously intended any other excursion than the one that made him master of her fortune , and indeed could he have obtained possession of that without incumbering himself with her person , he would gladly have done it . 
Miss Brenton , who was present , not giving her friend time to speak , answered for her , `` Certainly , Sir Stephen , Lady Mary has retained a trifle for her pocket expenses , till you have the settlements properly adjusted , and can pay her first quarter . '' 
Miss Brenton laid her finger on her lip , looking earnestly at Lady Mary to impose silence upon her , for the truth was she had persuaded her to retain five hundred pounds , which was the sum Mr. Matthews had mentioned as having laid by for her , during her minority . 
`` Sir Stephen will then make his own generous arrangements , and I shall not have occasion for much money till I get to London , when I must have an entire new wardrobe , have the few jewels my mother left me more fashionably set -- You will have a new carriage , I presume , Sir Stephen , '' addressing her husband , `` and new liveries ? '' 
It was the first time he had ever addressed her by the formal title of madam . 
She looked at him and her colour varied , but thinking he might suppose that she wished to hurry to London , she said , `` I did not mean that we should go directly there , if we are only there time enough to have every thing ready for the birth day , when I shall expect to be presented by some of my mother 's relations . '' 
`` I never deceived you in regard to my fortune , Sir Stephen , '' she answered , her lip beginning to quiver , and a choaking sensation to arise in her throat . 
-- `` I have given you all , Sir Stephen , '' said she , `` and had it been a thousand times as much , would have given it as freely . '' 
She hid her face with her handkerchief , and burst into an hysterical sob . 
It may be easily imagined what a young woman of such uncontrollable feelings as Lady Mary , must have endured , at this discovery of the selfish disposition of a man to whom she had entrusted her all of fortune , her all of earthly felicity -- she threw herself into the arms of Miss Brenton and exclaimed , `` Theresa , why have you done this ? 
I thought him disinterested , I thought he loved me for myself , why , why did you lead him to think '' -- `` My dear Mary , '' said Miss Brenton soothingly , `` how can you blame me ? 
`` Forgive my petulance , Theresa , '' said Lady Mary , drying her eyes , `` but what must I do , how must I conduct myself ? '' 
Let it be remembered that Lady Mary was but a wife of three days , for on their return from Scotland they had stopped at Alnwick in Northumberland , where so much of antiquity and ancient splendor were to be seen , connected with historic tales of chivalry and renown , that Mary Lumley , as she passed through it on her imprudent expedition , had expressed a wish to stop on her return , and view the castle , the gates of the town , and other objects , to which her enthusiastic spirit of romance , had given the highest interest . 
On the second morning after her arrival there , the scene took place , which led to the question of `` what must I do ? 
Lady Mary Lumley had been accustomed to the voice of adulation from her earliest remembrance ; she had observed how subservient her governess always was to the will of her mother ; she never contradicted her , and if at any time she was unreasonably petulant , from ennui , or irritable nerves , she was always silent , or soothed her into good humour again . 
Lady Mary thought this a proof of the strongest affection ; she loved her governess , who was equally indulgent to her foibles , and glossed them over with the name of amiable weaknesses . 
When after the death of her mother Lady Mary was removed to the regular well conducted family of Mr. Matthews , where a kind of sedate cheerfulness went hand in hand with rational amusement and mental improvement ; the change was so great that she was glad to meet a more congenial associate in Theresa Brenton . 
Lady Mary would complain of the formality of Mrs. Cavendish , the strictness of Mr. Matthews , and the undeviating preciseness of his wife . 
Miss Brenton would reply , `` I feel for you , my dear Mary , it must be very painful to your sensitive mind , but be patient , it can not last forever , and the time will arrive when , being your own mistress , you can indulge those amiable sensibilities which throw a fascinating charm around you , and whilst constituting your own happiness , render you the delight of all who know you . '' 
In the mean time Theresa Brenton would , when Mary Lumley received her quarterly allowance , accompany her from pure good nature , on her shopping expeditions , and when her friend purchased any elegant or expensive article , would lament , that she had not the power to indulge herself in any thing beyond usefulness , when often the thoughtless , yet generous minded Mary , would suffer considerable depredations on her purse , rather than dear Theresa should feel the want of an article , that would set off her pretty person so well , but which her confined finances would not allow her to purchase . 
Miss Brenton was herself deceived in regard to Sir Stephen 's fortune , when following Lady Mary from Brighton he contrived to get an introduction to the family , where he found he could make a staunch auxiliary by a profusion of protestations and a few showy presents . 
His equipage and dress were so elegant , his disregard of expense so evident , that both Mrs. and Miss Brenton conceived his revenues to be immense , and Theresa thought by assisting her friendin eluding her guardian 's watchfulness and forming a matrimonial union with Sir Stephen , she should secure to herself an invitation to pass one winter at least in London , during which period she might secure an establishment for herself , and , another season , dash forth , at parties , balls and routs , at the opera , theatre , or masquerade , as the rival or superior of her angelic friendLady Mary Haynes . 
She therefore pretended not to know the extent of Lady Mary 's fortune , but led the scheming selfish Baronet to conclude that it was above twenty thousand pounds . 
Mary Lumley herself would have spurned at such an imposition , but Mary Lumley never made that mental exertion which is necessary when persons mean to judge and decide for themselves . 
She had been blindly led by the flattery and opinions of Theresa Brenton , and was taught to believe that in asking for or submitting to the advice of Mr. Matthews , she was making herself a slave to the will of one who being old and fastidious , was incapable of deciding upon what would constitute the happiness of a young and beautiful woman . 
She had no idea that when she received , by Lady Mary 's order , the whole of her little fortune from Sir Robert Ainslie , that the innocent confiding girl meant to give it unconditionally to her husband , before he had made the promised settlements , which even at that time she had no doubt that he had the power to make . 
When dinner was announced and the ladies met Sir Stephen , Lady Mary strove to smile , Miss Brenton was remarkably cheerful , and when the cloth was removed , he made a proposal to visit Alnwick castle that afternoon . 
Sir Stephen knew when he made the proposal that some of the family being at that time in Northumberland , it was not likely that they would be admitted to view the castle ; and when he received for answer on applying for admittance at the porter 's lodge , that there was company there at present , turning to Lady Mary , he said , `` Well , it ca n't be helped , but we will take a drive round to view a little romantic spot which I am sure you will be pleased with ; when I went out this morning , I met a friend I had not seen for many years who now lives within a short distance of Alnwick , I walked with him to his house where he resides with his mother , and from thence , on one of his horses , accompanied him on a ride in this delightful country , where there is so much to gratify both the taste and the judgment . '' 
`` Besides , '' said Lady Mary , `` this is certainly not a house of entertainment . '' 
faintly articulated Lady Mary . 
Theresa , '' he replied , half jocularly , `` do n't raise obstacles where none really exist : I have ordered the trunks to be brought , I did not like our situation at the Inn , and my friend having offered me the use of this cottage for a short period , I concluded it would just suit Lady Mary 's taste , and you know you both declared just now it was exactly the situation to realize the idea of love in a cottage . '' 
`` True , '' said Lady Mary , with a slight degree of acrimony , `` but I do not know how I shall like the cottage without the love . '' 
`` I wo n't stay here , '' said Lady Mary . 
rejoined her companion , `` for I believe the carriage is gone in which we came . 
But be patient , dear Mary , this may only be a little frolic of Sir Stephen 's to try your temper . 
she ardently replied , `` I should never have fallen into this humiliating situation . '' 
At tea , though Mary was calm , she could not be cheerful . 
The ladies retired to their chambers , where they found their trunks , but on looking round Lady Mary missed her dressing case , in which were her jewels and all her money except about twenty-five guineas which were in Theresa 's purse . 
When , therefore , Lady Mary , on retiring to her room , found no one to assist her in undressing , or to go to Sir Stephen to inquire for her dressing case , Miss Brenton , who felt more alarmed than she was willing to own , snatched up the candle , for there was but one in the apartment , and without apology , hastened back to the parlour . 
`` What a fool I have been , and how I have misled poor Lady Mary , '' said Miss Brenton , mentally , as she ascended the stairs . 
But endeavouring to suppress her feelings , and look cheerful as she entered the room where her friend was undressing , she said , `` The box will be here to-morrow , you must condescend , dear Mary , to use my dressing apparatus to-night and in the morning , I hope we shall prevail on Sir Stephen to give up the wild scheme of staying any time in this cottage , and commence a journey if not to London , at least into Hampshire , where I am sure my mother will be happy to receive you till Sir Stephen can look round and settle in a proper habitation . '' 
Lady Mary on looking round soon perceived Sir Stephen had not been in bed all night . 
A vague sensation of desolateness struck upon her heart : she started up , searched for a bell , no bell was to be found . 
She opened the chamber door and called aloud for Theresa , and in a few moments , wrapped only in a dressing grown , her friend entered the room . 
Before Janet had finished her harangue , Theresa had snatched the note from her hand , eagerly broke the seal , and read as follows , You can not be surprised , Theresa , after the explanation which took place between Lady Mary and myself yesterday , that I should declare my utter inability to make those settlements which I talked of before our excursion to the north . 
My best wishes attend you and your fair associate Lady Mary . 
exclaimed Lady Mary , snatching it from Miss Brenton . 
While the family who had excited so warmly Lady Mary Lumley 's romantic enthusiam , were the blithest among the blithe , in the happy group , that not only filled the Rector 's eating parlour , but partially filled the benches in the great hall ; for Lucy 's forty , when children , grandchildren , and in some cases greatgrandchildren were collected , amounted to about sixty . 
Itcannot be supposed but that in the length of time elapsed since Lady Mary Lumley left the protection of her friends to trust to the honour of a profligate , many conjectures had been formed concerning her situation , and the treatment she met with from her husband . 
All the family at the Rectory , were anxious to hear from her , but how to direct their inquirers they were entirely at a loss . 
Mrs. Cavendish then wrote to some of Lady Mary 's relations on the mother 's side , to inquire if they had heard from her ; but they , offended at her imprudent conduct , and the marriage connection she had formed , answered , that `` They neither knew , nor wished to know any thing about her . '' 
`` That was not our poor Mary , '' whispered Aura to Miss Blakeney . 
We left this victim of self will , and ill directed sensibility at a cottage not many miles distant from Alnwick castle , under the care of Mr. Craftly ; but so ignorant were both Lady Mary and her friend of the country in which the cottage was situated , that they would have been unable to direct a servant , had any been allowed them , to find a post town or village by which means to transmit a letter to their friends . 
But for weeks after the departure of Sir Stephen , Lady Mary was in no state to write or hardly to think , being ill with a slow nervous fever , and at times delirious . 
Her highly excited state of feeling , her keen disappointment , added to a degree of self accusation which her ingenuous mind could not suppress , was more than she could support , and she had nearly sunk under it -- perhaps would have done so , but that Craftly , who though he considered her as an imprudent young woman , pitied her sufferings and interested his mother and sister in her behalf . 
Lady Mary revived , as to external appearance , but her warm enthusiastic heart had been chilled , the bright prospects of youth , to her were shrouded , and the sweet blossoms of hope were crushed forever . 
When therefore Haynes met Craftly upon his return from the north with his newly made lovely bride , it occurred to his unprincipled mind that he might make him subservient to his views in getting free from Lady Mary , and enjoying his intended tour to the continent in company with a dissolute woman , who had persuaded him , that though married and the mother of two lovely children , her invincible attachment to him had induced her to sacrifice all at the shrine of her illicit love . 
Mary Lumley was agreeable in her person , sportive in her manners , and easily assailed by flattery . 
Her fortune had been represented as more than treble its value . 
He sought to obtain that fortune , but shrunk from proclaiming her as his wife . 
Possessed of her little patrimony , his thoughts reverted to the woman who had enslaved his youthful mind , and leaving his confiding victim to what chance or time might produce , he took his adulterous paramour with him on his journey to France . 
Lady Mary , recovered by the care of her unknown friends , began to think of living , and when she discovered that she was likely to become a mother , life itself became more endeared to her . 
Lady Mary Lumley , however headstrong in her resolves , however misled by the spirit of romance , and the flattery of pretended friends , had naturally a good heart , and an understanding above mediocrity . 
The time she had passed in the family of Mr. Matthews had been of infinite service to her . 
The principles and habits of the individuals who formed that family , were such as had taught her , that the neglect of duty in others , was no excuse for the same neglect in ourselves . 
`` I am forsaken , '' she mentally argued , `` deceived , plundered of fortune and good name , but if my misconduct is the cause of a human being coming into the world , a being dependant on me for every thing , it is my duty to submit to the evils I have brought upon myself , and be to the little innocent , father ! 
It may be asked why did she not write to those friends she now knew how to appreciate . 
She did write , but Craftly had received orders to forward no letters whatever ; he had therefore requested his mother and sister , before he agreed to their attending the sick bed of Lady Mary , to give all letters , whether written by her or Miss Brenton , to him ; alleging as a reason , that he could conveniently send them to the post office , without trouble to them . 
He asserted , that Sir Stephen Haynes said he was not the husband of Lady Mary ; that she was a thoughtless romantic girl of fashion , who was so madly in love with him that she had thrown herself upon his protection , without waiting for those forms which her friends would have insisted on , and which , he had no inclination to submit to . 
Theresa knew this in part to be true ; but she also knew that the marriage ceremony had passed at Gretna Green , and that Mary Lumley was in her own opinion , though perhaps not in the eye of the law , the wife of Sir Stephen Haynes . 
But Lady Mary was now poor ; where was the use of her -LRB- Theresa 's -RRB- irritating Sir Stephen ? 
it would do her poor misguided friend no good , and might be of injury to the plans she had formed for herself . 
Then she would pathetically lament poor Lady Mary 's misfortune , speak of her as a young woman of impetuous feelings , which had never been kept under any restraint , and conclude with a sigh , `` She fully believes herself Sir Stephen 's wife , and it will be as well not to contradict her ; in her present delicate state of health , it might produce fatal consequences . 
Lady Mary endeavoured to obtain from Craftly her husband 's address , but he always pretended that he believed him to be so unsettled that a letter would have but little chance of finding him . 
He well knew that to send intelligence to Mrs. Brenton was furnishing a direct clue to the discovery of Lady Mary , and this he had promised his friend Haynes should not be made in less than six months after his departure . 
It will be readily supposed that Edward expressed a desire to see her , and he was accordingly conducted from the neat sitting room , into which he had first been invited , into a small back room , where to his no small astonishment he saw , seated in an easy chair by the fire , and attended by a little girl , the unfortunate Lady Mary , the wife of Sir Stephen Haynes . 
Her attire consisted of a soiled travelling dress , which had once been rich and showy -- her countenance , though thin and wasted , was flushed and feverish , and there was a wildness in her eyes which told the saddest tale of all , that not only was the wretched lady forsaken by friends and fortune , but at least partially deprived of the blessed light of reason . 
shrieked Lady Mary , catching his last words , `` Yes I do know you , Edward Ainslie , and I know , too , what you are come here for . 
She said this with great energy , and then , after pausing a moment and looking thoughtfully on the floor , she burst into tears again , exclaiming , `` But my poor boy ! 
Edward , perceiving that his presence could be of no service to her , left the apartment and directed that every attention should be paid to her , and promised ample remuneration to the family for their trouble . 
Forseveral days after the occurrence which we have described in the last chapter , Lady Mary continued in a high fever , and the physician gave little hopes of her recovery . 
Edward visited the cottage every day to inquire after her , and was at length happy to learn , that by the unremitted kindness and care of the worthy family , she was safely past the crisis of her disorder ; that her reason was restored , but her weakness was such , that she had not been permitted to attempt giving any account of the manner in which she came into the miserable state in which she was found . 
She was assured that she was under the care of a friend who had known her in early life , and would visit her as soon as her strength would permit . 
Satisfied with this assurance , she recovered rapidly , and , in a month from the time of Edward 's first visit to the cottage , was able to sit up a great part of the day , and to receive a visit from him . 
Poor Lady Mary seemed to be throughly humbled by misfortune , and was desirous of nothing so much as to see her early friends , and receive their pardon for her unworthy conduct in deserting them . 
Edward assured her that their affection for her was the same as ever ; that they had regarded her as misled by designing and artful persons ; and that nothing would afford them such heartfelt pleasure , as to welcome her once more to their hospitable home . 
Thus soothed and encouraged , she informed him of the events which we have already narrated concerning her elopement , and the subsequent desertion of her husband . 
She proceeded to say that she had lost her child , a beautiful boy , born at the Gothic cottage of which we have so frequently spoken ; that after the marriage of Craftly and Theresa , which out of regard to that young lady 's taste was celebrated with considerable parade , she had continued to reside with them in the cottage , in a state of indescribable wretchedness from the neglect of her husband . 
Before the family returned , Lady Mary had read through the greater part of them , and notwithstanding the bewildering and oppressive emotions which impeded her progress and distracted her mind , she was able to make out pretty clearly what her situation was . 
Her husband was living in Paris , immersed in dissipation . 
Craftly had been instructed by him , and was repeatedly charged in the letters , to suffer no communication between her and her friends , and , what shocked the unfortunate lady most of all and deprived her of recollection for some moments , was a determination expressed in one of the letters never to see her again , accompanied with the declaration , that although she supposed herself so , she was not really his wife . 
After recovering from her fainting fit , she hurried through the remainder of the letters , with many tears and many prayers to Heaven for support . 
`` Never in my life , '' said she , `` did I pass an afternoon of such complete and thorough wretchedness . 
Here Lady Mary became too much affected to proceed with her narrative . 
Indeed she had little more to relate ; for the shock had proved too great for her reason , and from that moment she recollected little more than that she had wandered from village to village , pitied and relieved by some and derided by others , until she found herself in her present asylum , restored to perfect recollection by the care of the good people around her . 
Edward had listened to her narrative with the deepest interest and compassion , and assured her of the protection and support of her friends , whatever might be the determination of her relations . 
He gave directions for her further accommodation at the cottage during her convalescence , and it was arranged that as soon as her strength would permit , she should take up her residence at his own house . 
Having been delayed only by his desire to learn all that related to her , and to provide for her comfort , Edward set off for the South as soon as these arrangements had been completed , leaving Lady Mary under the care of the worthy family at the cottage . 
Lady Mary too was there . 
She had recovered from the wreck of her husband 's property enough to support her genteelly , and had found an asylum with her old preceptor and guide , in the only place where she had ever enjoyed any thing like solid happiness . 
`` And your protegés , Lady Mary , the distressed family which you found out , '' rejoined Aura . 
`` They are well , and quite a happy industrious family , '' answered Lady Mary , with a slight blush . 
