Lady Bertram , who was a woman of very tranquil feelings , and a temper remarkably easy and indolent , would have contented herself with merely giving up her sister , and thinking no more of the matter ; but Mrs. Norris had a spirit of activity , which could not be satisfied till she had written a long and angry letter to Fanny , to point out the folly of her conduct , and threaten her with all its possible ill consequences . 
Their homes were so distant , and the circles in which they moved so distinct , as almost to preclude the means of ever hearing of each other 's existence during the eleven following years , or at least to make it very wonderful to Sir Thomas , that Mrs. Norris should ever have it in her power to tell them , as she now and then did in an angry voice , that Fanny had got another child . 
Fanny Price was at this time just ten years old , and though there might not be much in her first appearance to captivate , there was , at least , nothing to disgust her relations . 
There was in fact but two years between the youngest and Fanny . 
`` This is not a very promising begining , '' said Mrs. Norris when Fanny had left the room . 
It required a longer time , however , than Mrs. Norris was inclined to allow , to reconcile Fanny to the novelty of Mansfield Park , and the separation from everybody she had been used to . 
Her feelings were very acute , and too little understood to be properly attended to . 
Nobody meant to be unkind , but nobody put themselves out of their way to secure her comfort . 
They could not but hold her cheap on finding that she had but two sashes , and had never learnt French ; and when they perceived her to be little struck with the duet they were so good as to play , they could do no more than make her a generous present of some of their least valued toys , and leave her to herself , while they adjourned to whatever might be the favourite holiday sport of the moment , making artificial flowers or wasting gold paper . 
Fanny , whether near or from her cousins , whether in the school-room , the drawing room , or the shrubbery , was equally forlorn , finding something to fear in every person and place . 
`` You are sorry to leave Mamma , my dear little Fanny , '' said he , `` which shews you to be a very good girl ; but you must remember that you are with relations and friends , who all love you , and wish to make you happy . 
repeated Fanny with a frightened look . 
Fanny thought it a bold measure , but offered no farther resistance ; and they went together into the breakfast-room , where Edmund prepared her paper , and ruled her lines with all the good will that her brother could himself have felt , and probably with somewhat more exactness . 
He continued with her the whole time of her writing , to assist her with his penknife or his orthography , as either were wanted ; and added to these attentions , which she felt very much , a kindness to her brother , which delighted her beyond all the rest . 
Fanny 's feelings on the occasion were such as she believe herself incapable of expressing ; but her countenance and a few artless words fully conveyed all their gratitude and delight , and her cousin began to find her an interesting object . 
He talked to her more , and from all that she said , was convinced of her having an affectionate heart , and a strong desire of doing right ; and he could perceive her to be farther entitled to attention , by great sensibility of her situation , and great timidity . 
He had never knowingly given her pain , but he now felt that she required more positive kindness , and with that view endeavoured , in the first place , to lessen her fears of them all , and gave her especially a great deal of good advice as to playing with Maria and Julia , and being as merry as possible . 
From this day Fanny grew more comfortable . 
She felt that she had a friend , and the kindness of her cousin Edmund gave her better spirits with every body else . 
The place became less strange , and the people less formidable ; and if there were some amongst them whom she could not cease to fear , she began at least to know their ways , and to catch the best manner of conforming to them . 
The little rusticities and awkwardnesses which had at first made grievous inroads on the tranquillity of all , and not least of herself , necessarily wore away , and she was no longer materially afraid to appear before her uncle , nor did her aunt Norris 's voice make her start very much . 
To her cousins she became occasionally an acceptable companion . 
Though unworthy , from inferiority of age and strength , to be their constant associate , their pleasures and schemes were sometimes of a nature to make a third very useful , especially when that third was of an obliging , yielding temper ; and they could not but own , when their aunt inquired into her faults , or their brother Edmund urged her claims to their kindness , that `` Fanny was good-natured enough . '' 
Fanny could read , work , and write , but she had been taught nothing more ; and as her cousins found her ignorant of many things with which they had been long familiar , they thought her prodigiously stupid , and for the first two or three weeks , were continually bringing some fresh report of it into the drawing room . 
But I must tell you another thing of Fanny , so odd and so stupid . 
As for Fanny 's being stupid at learning , `` she could only say it was very unlucky , but some people were stupid , and Fanny must take more pains ; she did not know what else was to be done ; and except her being so dull , she must add she saw no harm in the poor little thing -- and always found her very handy and quick in carrying messages , and fetching what she wanted . '' 
Fanny with all her faults of ignorance and timidity was fixed at Mansfield Park , and learning to transfer in its favour much of her attachment to her former home , grew up there not unhappily among her cousins . 
There was no positive ill-nature in Maria or Julia ; and though Fanny was often mortified by their treatment of her , she thought too lowly of her own claims to feel injured by it . 
Amid the cares and the complacency which his own children suggested , Sir Thomas did not forget to do what he could for the children of Mrs. Price ; he assisted her liberally in the education and disposal of her sons as they became old enough for a determinate pursuit ; and Fanny , though almost totally separated from her family , was sensible of the truest satisfaction in hearing of any kindness towards them , or of any thing at all promising in their situation or conduct . 
Once and once only in the course of many years had she the happiness of being with William . 
Of the rest she saw nothing ; nobody seemed to think of her ever going amongst them again , even for a visit , nobody at home seemed to want her ; but William determining soon after her removal , to be a sailor , was invited to spend a week with his sister in Northamptonshire , before he went to sea . 
The first event of any importance in the family was the death of Mr. Norris , which happened when Fanny was about fifteen , and necessarily introduced alterations and novelties . 
The time was now come when Sir Thomas expected his sister-in-law to claim her share in their niece , the change in Mrs. Norris 's situation , and the improvement in Fanny 's age , seeming not merely to do away any former objection to their living together , but even to give it the most decided eligibility ; and as his own circumstances were rendered less fair than heretofore , by some recent losses on his West India Estate , in addition to his eldest son 's extravagance , it became not undesirable to himself to be relieved from the expense of her support , and the obligation of her future provision . 
In the fulness of his belief that such a thing must be , he mentioned its probability to his wife , and the first time of the subject 's occuring to her again , happening to be when Fanny was present , she calmly observed to her , `` So , Fanny , you are going to leave us , and live with my sister . 
Fanny was too much surprised to do more than repeat her aunt 's words , `` Going to leave you ? '' 
The news was as disagreeable to Fanny as it had been unexpected . 
`` I hope I am not ungrateful , aunt , '' said Fanny , modestly . 
Fanny left the room with a very sorrowful heart ; she could not feel the difference to be so small , she could not think of living with her aunt with any thing like satisfaction . 
As soon as she met with Edmund , she told him her distress . 
`` Cousin , '' said she , `` something is going to happen which I do not like at all ; and though you have often persuaded me into being reconciled to things that I disliked at first , you will not be able to do it now . 
`` Well , Fanny , and if the plan were not unpleasant to you , I should call it an excellent one . '' 
I hope it does not distress you very much , Fanny . '' 
You know how uncomfortable I feel with her . '' 
`` I can say nothing for her manner to you as a child , but it was the same with us all , or nearly so . 
She never knew how to be pleasant to children . 
But you are now of an age to be treated better ; I think she is behaving better already , and when you are her only companion , you must be important to her . '' 
`` As to your foolishness and awkwardness , my dear Fanny , believe me , you never have a shadow of either , but in using the words so improperly . 
`` You are too kind , '' said Fanny , colouring at such praise ; `` how shall I ever thank you as I ought , for thinking so well of me . 
`` Why , indeed , Fanny , I should hope to be remembered at such a distance as the White house . 
Fanny sighed , and said , `` I can not see things as you do ; but I ought to believe you to be right rather than myself , and I am very much obliged to you for trying to reconcile me to what must be . 
`` The place , Fanny , is what you will not quit , though you quit the house . 
So ended their discourse , which , for any very appropriate service it could render Fanny , might as well have been spared , for Mrs. Norris had not the smallest intention of taking her . 
Not all her precautions , however , could save her from being suspected of something better ; or , perhaps , her very display of the importance of a spare-room , might have misled Sir Thomas to suppose it really intended for Fanny . 
Lady Bertram soon brought the matter to a certainty , by carelessly observing to Mrs. Norris , -- `` I think , sister , we need not keep Miss Lee any longer , when Fanny goes to live with you ? '' 
Fanny live with me ! 
what could I do with Fanny ? 
-- He could not say he wished me to take Fanny . 
She is no incumbrance here . '' 
If you consider my unhappy state , how can she be any comfort to me ? 
Here am I a poor desolate widow , deprived of the best of husbands , my health gone in attending and nursing him , my spirits still worse , all my peace in this world destroyed , with barely enough to support me in the rank of gentlewoman , and enable me to live so as not to disgrace the memory of the dear deprated -- what possible comfort could I have in taking such a charge upon me as Fanny ! 
`` Well , Lady Bertram , '' said Mrs. Norris moving to go , `` I can only say that my sole desire is to be of use to your family -- and so if Sir Thomas should ever speak again about my taking Fanny , you will be able to say , that my health and spirits put it quite out of the question -- besides that , I really should not have a bed to give her , for I must keep a spare room for a friend . '' 
He could not but wonder at her refusing to do any thing for a niece , whom she had been so forward to adopt ; but as she took early care to make him , as well as Lady Bertram , understand that whatever she possessed was designed for their family , he soon grew reconciled to a distinction , which at the same time that it was advantageous and complimentary to them , would enable him better to provide for Fanny himself . 
Fanny soon learnt how unnecessary had been her fears of removal ; and her spontaneous , untaught felicity on the discovery , conveyed some consolation to Edmund for his disappointment in what he had expected to be so essentially serviceable to her . 
`` Nobody loved plenty and hospitality more than herself -- nobody more hated pitiful doings -- the parsonage she believed had never been wanting in comforts of any sort , had never borne a bad character in her time , but this was a way of going on that she could not understand . 
Fanny 's relief , and her consciousness of it , were quite equal to her cousins ' , but a more tender nature suggested that her feelings were ungrateful , and she really grieved because she could not grieve . 
He had said to her moreover , on the very last morning , that he hoped she might see William again in the course of the ensuing Winter , and had charged her to write and invite him to Mansfield as soon as the squadron to which he belonged should be known to be in England . 
-- and would he only have smiled upon her and called her `` my dear Fanny , '' while he said it every former frown or cold address might have been forgotten . 
But he had ended his speech in a way to sink her in sad mortification , by adding , `` If William does come to Mansfield , I hope you may be able to convince him that the many years which have passed since you parted , have not been spent on your side entirely without improvement -- though I fear he must find his sister at sixteen in some respects too much like his sister at ten . '' 
She cried bitterly over this reflection when her uncle was gone ; and her cousins on seeing her with red eyes , set her down as a hypocrite . 
Fanny had no share in the festivities of the season ; but she enjoyed being avowedly useful as her aunt 's companion , when they called away the rest of the family ; and as Miss Lee had left Mansfield , she naturally became every thing to Lady Bertram during the night of a ball or a party . 
They took their cheerful rides in the fine mornings of April and May ; and Fanny either sat at home the whole day with one aunt , or walked beyond her strength at the instigation of the other ; Lady Bertram holding exercise to be as unnecessary for every body as it was unpleasant to herself , and Mrs. Norris , who was walking all day , thinking every body ought to walk as much . 
When he returned to understand how Fanny was situated , and perceive its ill effects , there seemed with him but one thing to be done , and that `` Fanny must have a horse , '' was the resolute declaration with which he opposed whatever could be urged by the supineness of his mother , or the economy of his aunt , to make it appear unimportant . 
She could not but consider it as absolutely unnecessary , and even improper , that Fanny should have a regular lady 's horse of her own in the style of her cousins . 
She was sure Sir Thomas had never intended it , and she must say , that to be making such a purchase in his absence , and adding to the great expenses of his stable at a time when a large part of his income was unsettled , seemed to her very unjustifiable . 
`` Fanny must have a horse , '' was Edmund 's only reply . 
Though Edmund was much more displeased with his Aunt than with his Mother , as evincing least regard for her niece , he could not help paying more attention to what she said , and at lenght determined on a method of proceeding which would obviate the risk of his father 's thinking he had done too much , and at the same time procure for Fanny the immediate means of exercise which he could not bear she should be without . 
The new mare proved a treasure ; with a very little trouble , she became exactly calculated for the purpose , and Fanny was then put in almost full possession of her . 
She had not supposed before , that any thing could ever suit her like the old grey poney ; but her delight in Edmund 's mare was far beyond any former pleasure of the sort ; and the addition it was ever receiving in the consideration of that kindness from which her pleasure sprung , was beyond all her words to express . 
She regarded her cousin as an example of every thing good and great , as possessing worth , which no one but herself could ever appreciate , and as entitled to such gratitude from her , as no feelings could be strong enough to pay . 
Her sentiments towards him were compounded of all that was respectful , grateful , confiding , and tender . 
As the horse continued in name as well as fact , the property of Edmund , Mrs. Norris could tolerate its being for Fanny 's use ; and had Lady Bertram ever thought about her own objection again , he might have been excused in her eyes , for not waiting till Sir Thomas 's return in September , for when September came , Sir Thomas was still abroad , and without any near prospect of finishing his business . 
Such was the state of affairs in the month of July , and Fanny had just reached her eighteenth year , when the society of the village received an addition in the brother and sister of Mrs. Grant , a Mr. and Miss Crawford , the children of her mother by a second marriage . 
And Fanny , what was she doing and thinking all this while ? 
and what was her opinion of the new-comers ? 
Few young ladies of eighteen could be less called on to speak their opinion than Fanny . 
In a quiet way , very little attended to , she paid her tribute of admiration to Miss Crawford 's beauty ; but as she still continued to think Mr. Crawford very plain , in spite of her two cousins having repeatedly proved the contrary , she never mentioned him . 
The notice which she exicited herself , was to this effect . 
My mother seldom goes into company herself , and dines no where but with Mrs. Grant , and Fanny stays at home with her . '' 
Fanny , who was sitting on the other side of Edmund , exactly opposite Miss Crawford , and who had been attentively listening , now looked at him , and said in a low voice . 
He smiled as he answered , `` I am afraid the avenue stands a bad chance , Fanny . '' 
`` It would be delightful to me to see the progress of it all , '' said Fanny . 
Fanny had never heard the harp at all , and wished for it very much . 
`` When they are at a distance from all their family , '' said Fanny , colouring for William 's sake , `` they can write long letters . '' 
Fanny would rather have had Edmund tell the story , but his determined silence obliged her to relate her brother 's situation ; her voice was animated in speaking of his profession , and the foreign stations he had been on , but she could not mention the number of years that he had been absent without tears in her eyes . 
I dare say Mr. Crawford would take my two nieces and me in his barouche , and Edmund can go on horseback , you know sister , and Fanny will stay at home with you . '' 
`` Well Fanny , and how do you like Miss Crawford now ? '' 
But was there nothing in her conversation that struck you Fanny , as not quite right ? '' 
`` Do not you think , '' said Fanny , after a little consideration , `` that this impropriety is a reflection itself upon Mrs. Crawford , as her niece has been entirely brought up by her ? 
`` The right of a lively mind , Fanny , seizing whatever may contribute to its own amusement or that of others ; perfectly allowable , when untinctured by ill humour or roughness ; and there is not a shadow of either in the countenance or manner of Miss Crawford , nothing sharp , or loud , or coarse . 
Having formed her mind and gained her affections , he had a good chance of her thinking like him ; though at this period , and on this subject there began now to be some danger of dissimilarity , for he was in a line of admiration of Miss Crawford , which might lead him where Fanny could not follow . 
Fanny could not wonder that Edmund was at the parsonage every morning ; she would gladly have been there too , might she have gone in uninvited and unnoticed to hear the harp ; neither could she wonder , that when the evening stroll was over , and the two families parted again , he should think it right to attend Mrs. Grant and her sister to their home , while Mr. Crawford was devoted to the ladies of the park ; but she thought it a very bad exchange , and if Edmund were not there to mix the wine and water for her , would rather go without it than not . 
The mare was only to be taken down to the parsonage half an hour before her ride were to begin ; and Fanny , on its being first proposed , so far from feeling slighted , was almost overpowered with gratitude that he should be asking her leave for it Miss Crawford made her first essay with great credit to herself , and no inconvenience to Fanny . 
Edmund , who had taken down the mare and presided at the whole , returned with it in excellent time , before either Fanny or the steady old coachman , who always attended her when she rode without her cousins , were ready to set forward . 
Fanny was ready and waiting , and Mrs. Norris was beginning to scold her for not being gone , and still no horse was announced , no Edmund appeared . 
At first Miss Crawford and her companion made the circuit of the field , which was not small , at a foot 's pace ; then , at her apparent suggestion , they rose into a canter ; and to Fanny 's timid nature it was most astonishing to see how well she sat . 
After a few minutes , they stopt entirely , Edmund was close to her , he was speaking to her , he was evidently directing her management of the bridle , he had hold of her hand ; she saw it , or the imagination supplied what the eye could not reach . 
She must not wonder at all this ; what could be more natural than that Edmund should be making himself useful , and proving his good-nature by any one ? 
She could not but think indeed that Mr. Crawford might as well have saved him the trouble ; that it would have been particularly proper and becoming in a brother to have done it himself ; but Mr. Crawford , with all his boasted good nature , and all his coachmanship , probably knew nothing of the matter , and had no active kindness in comparison of Edmund . 
She began to think it rather hard upon the mare to have such double duty ; if she were forgotten the poor mare should be remembered . 
Her feelings for one and the other were soon a little tranquillized , by seeing the party in the meadow disperse , and Miss Crawford still on horseback , but attended by Edmund on foot , pass through a gate into the lane , and so into the park , and make towards the spot where she stood . 
Fanny 's answer was extremely civil , and Edmund added his conviction that she could be in no hurry . 
The old coachman who had been waiting about with his own horse , now joining them , Fanny was lifted on her 's , and they set off across another part of the park ; her feelings of discomfort not lightened by seeing , as she looked back , that the others were walking down the hill together to the village ; nor did her attendant do her much good by his comments on Miss Crawford 's great cleverness as a horse woman , which he had been watching with an interest almost equal to her own . 
When they parted at night , Edmund asked Fanny whether she meant to ride the next day . 
`` I shall not ride to-morrow , certainly , '' said Fanny ; `` I have been out very often lately , and would rather stay at home . 
Edmund looked pleased , which must be Fanny 's comfort , and the ride to Mansfield common took place the next morning ; -- the party included all the young people but herself , and was much enjoyed at the time , and doubly enjoyed again in the evening discussion . 
For a few minutes , the brother and sister were too eager in their praise of the night and their remarks on the stars , to think beyond themselves ; but when the first pause came , Edmund , looking around , said , `` But where is Fanny ? 
-- Is she gone to bed ? '' 
`` No , not that I know of , '' replied Mrs. Norris ; `` she was here a moment ago . '' 
`` That is a very foolish trick , Fanny , to be idling away all the evening upon a sofa . 
Before half this was said , Fanny was returned to her seat at the table , and had taken up her work again ; and Julia , who was in high good-humour , from the pleasures of the day , did her the justice of exclaiming , `` I must say , Ma'am , that Fanny is as little upon the sofa as any body in the house . '' 
`` Fanny , '' said Edmund , after looking at her attentively ; `` I am sure you have the head-ache ? '' 
`` Yes , indeed , Edmund , '' added her ladyship , who had been thoroughly awakened by Mrs. Norris 's sharp reprimand to Fanny ; `` I was out above an hour . 
I sat three quarters of an hour in the flower garden , while Fanny cut the roses , and very pleasant it was I assure you , but very hot . 
`` Fanny has been cutting roses , has she ? '' 
`` No ; but they were to be put into the spare room to dry ; and , unluckily , Fanny forgot to lock the door of the room and bring away the key , so she was obliged to go again . '' 
Edmund got up and walked about the room , saying , `` And could nobody be employed on such an errand but Fanny ? 
And as for Fanny 's just stepping down to my house for me , it is not much above a quarter of a mile , I can not think I was unreasonable to ask it . 
`` I wish Fanny had half your strength , Ma'am . '' 
`` If Fanny would be more regular in her excercise , she would not be knocked up so soon . 
She has not been out on horseback now this long while , and I am persuaded , that when she does not ride , she ought to walk . 
If she had been riding before , I should not have asked it of her . 
But I thought it would rather do her good after being stooping among the roses ; for there is nothing so refreshing as a walk after a fatigue of that kind ; and though the sun was strong , it was not so very hot . 
Edmund said no more to either lady ; but going quietly to another table , on which the supper tray yet remained , brought a glass of Madeira to Fanny , and obliged her to drink the greater part . 
Fanny went to bed with her heart as full as on the first evening of her arrival at the Park . 
The state of her spirits had probably had its share in her indisposition ; for she had been feeling neglected , and been struggling against discontent and envy for some days past . 
As she leant on the sofa , to which she had retreated that she might not be seen , the pain of her mind had been much beyond that in her head ; and the sudden change which Edmund 's kindness had then occasioned , made her hardly know how to support herself . 
Fanny 's rides recommenced the very next day , and as it was a pleasant fresh-feeling morning , less hot than the weather had lately been , Edmund trusted that her losses both of health and pleasure would be soon made good . 
She will have a companion in Fanny Price you know , so it will all do very well ; and as for Edmund , as he is not here to speak for himself , I will answer for his being most happy to join the party . 
`` You are very kind , you are all kindness , my dear madam , '' cried Mrs. Norris ; `` but as to Fanny , she will have opportunities in plenty of seeing Sotherton . 
no -- I can not do without Fanny . '' 
`` There can be no objection then to Fanny 's going with you ; there can be no doubt of your having room for her . '' 
`` Fanny ! '' 
repeated Mrs. Norris , `` my dear Edmund , there is no idea of her going with us . 
She stays with her aunt . 
She is not expected . '' 
`` You can have no reason I imagine madam , '' said he addressing his mother , for wishing Fanny not to be of the party , `` but as it relates to yourself , to your own comfort . 
If you could do without her , you would not wish to keep her at home ? '' 
`` To be sure not , but I can not do without her . '' 
Fanny has a great desire to see Sotherton . 
I know she wishes it very much . 
She has not often a gratification of the kind , and I am sure Ma'am you would be glad to give her the pleasure now ? '' 
Mrs. Norris was very ready with the only objection which could remain , their having positively assured Mrs. Rushworth , that Fanny could not go , and the very strange appearance there would consequently be in taking her , which seemed to her a difficulty quite impossible to be got over . 
Mrs. Norris had no affection for Fanny , and no wish of procuring her pleasure at any time , but her opposition to Edmund now arose more from partiality for her own scheme because it was her own , than from any thing else . 
She felt that she had arranged every thing extremely well , and that any alteration must be for the worse . 
When Edmund , therefore , told her in reply , as he did when she would give him the hearing , that she need not distress herself on Mrs. Rushworth 's account , because he had taken the opportunity as he walked with her through the hall , of mentioning Miss Price as one who would probably be of the party , and had directly received a very sufficient invitation for her cousin , Mrs. Norris was too much vexed to submit with a very good grace and would only say , `` Very well , very well , just as you chuse , settle it your own way , I am sure I do not care about it . '' 
`` It seems very odd , '' said Maria , `` that you should be staying at home instead of Fanny . '' 
`` Fanny will feel quite as grateful as the occasion requires , '' was Edmund 's only reply , and the subject dropt . 
Fanny 's gratitude when she heard the plan , was in fact much greater than her pleasure . 
She felt Edmund 's kindness with all , and more than all , the sensibility which he , unsuspicious of her fond attachment , could be aware of ; but that he should forego any enjoyment on her account gave her pain , and her own satisfaction in seeing Sotherton would be nothing without him . 
Their road was through a pleasant country ; and Fanny , whose rides had never been extensive , was soon beyond her knowledge , and was very happy in observing all that was new , and admiring all that was pretty . 
She was not often invited to join in the conversation of the others , nor did she desire it . 
Her own thoughts and reflections were habitually her best companions ; and in observing the appearance of the country , the bearings of the roads , the difference of soil , the state of the harvest , the cottages , the cattle , the children , she found entertainment that could only have been heightened by having Edmund to speak to of what she felt . 
That was the only point of resemblance between her and the lady who sat by her ; in every thing but a value for Edmund , Miss Crawford was very unlike her . 
She had none of Fanny 's delicacy of taste , of mind , of feeling ; she saw nature , inanimate nature , with little observation ; her attention was all for man and women , her talents for the light and lively . 
Mrs. Norris was all delight and volubility ; and even Fanny had something to say in admiration , and might be heard with complacency . 
Her eye was eagerly taking in every thing within her reach , and after being at some pains to get a view of the house , and observing that `` it was a sort of building which she could not look at but with respect , '' she added , `` Now , where is the avenue ? 
On the present occasion , she addressed herself chiefly to Miss Crawford and Fanny , but there was no comparison in the willingness of their attention , for Miss Crawford , who had seen scores of great houses , and cared for none of them , had only the appearance of civilly listening , while Fanny , to whom every thing was almost as interesting as it was new , attended with unaffected earnestness to all that Mrs. Rushworth could relate of the family in former times , its rise and grandeur , regal visits and loyal efforts , delighted to connect any thing with history already known , or warm her imagination with scenes of the past . 
The situation of the house excluded the possibility of much prospect from any of the rooms , and while Fanny and some of the others were attending Mrs. Rushworth , Henry Crawford was looking grave and shaking his head at the windows . 
Fanny 's imagination had prepared her for something grander than a mere , spacious , oblong room , fitted up for the purpose of devotion -- with nothing more striking or more solemn than the profusion of mahogany , and the crimson velvet cushions appearing over the ledge of the family gallery above . 
''' `` You forget , Fanny , how lately all this has been built , and for how confined a purpose , compared with the old chapels of castles and monasteries . 
Mrs. Rushworth was gone to repeat her lesson to Mr. Crawford ; and Edmund , Fanny , and Miss Crawford remained in a cluster together . 
`` It is a pity , '' cried Fanny , `` that the custom should have been discontinued . 
`` That is hardly Fanny 's idea of a family assembling , '' said Edmund . 
Fanny coloured and looked at Edmund , but felt too angry for speech ; and he needed a little recollection before he could say , `` Your lively mind can hardly be serious even on serious subjects . 
cried Julia , and running to where he stood with Miss Crawford and Fanny ; `` My dear Edmund , if you were but in orders now , you might perform the ceremony directly . 
Fanny pitied her . 
`` How distressed she will be at what she said just now , '' passed across her mind . 
Mr. Crawford was soon followed by Miss Bertram and Mr. Rushworth , and when after a little time the others began to form into parties , these three were found in busy consultation on the terrace by Edmund , Miss Crawford and Fanny , who seemed as naturally to unite , and who after a short participation of their regrets and difficulties , left them and walked on . 
`` Certainly , '' said Fanny with gentle earnestness . 
Fanny made the first interruption by saying , `` I wonder that I should be tired with only walking in this sweet wood , but the next time we come to a seat , if it is not disagreeable to you , I should be glad to sit down for a little while . '' 
`` My dear Fanny , '' cried Edmund , immediately drawing her arm within his , `` how thoughtless I have been ! 
She took it , however , as she spoke , and the gratification of having her do so , of feeling such a connection for the first time , made him a little forgetful of Fanny . 
`` I am afraid you are very tired , Fanny , '' said Edmund , observing her , `` why would not you speak sooner ? 
Fanny 's interest seems in safer hands with you than with me . '' 
`` That she should be tired now , however , gives me no surprise ; for there is nothing in the course of one 's duties so fatiguing as what we have been doing this morning -- seeing a great house , dawdling from one room to another -- straining one 's eyes and one 's attention -- hearing what one does not understand -- admiring what one does not care for . 
`` I shall soon be rested , '' said Fanny ; `` to sit in the shade on a fine day , and look upon verdure , is the most perfect refreshment . '' 
Fanny said she was rested , and would have moved too , but this was not suffered . 
Edmund urged her remaining where she was with an earnestness which she could not resist , and she was left on the bench to think with pleasure of her cousin 's care , but with great regret that she was not stronger . 
She watched them till they had turned the corner , and listened till all sound of them had ceased . 
A quarter of an hour , twenty minutes , passed away , and Fanny was still thinking of Edmund , Miss Crawford , and herself without interuption from any one . 
and `` My dear Fanny , how comes this ? '' 
`` Poor dear Fanny , '' cried her cousin , `` how ill you have been used by them . 
Fanny , feeling all this to be wrong , could not help making an effort to prevent it . 
Her cousin was safe on the other side , while these words were spoken , and smiling with all the good-humour of success she said , `` Thank you , my dear Fanny , but I and my gown are alive and well , and so good bye . '' 
`` Fanny was again left to her solitude , and with no increase of pleasant feelings , for she was sorry for almost all that she had seen and heard , astonished at Miss Bertram , and angry with Mr. Crawford . 
Fanny explained . 
This was a most unjust reflection , but Fanny could allow for it , and let it pass ; Julia was vexed , and her temper was hasty , but she felt that it would not last , and therefore taking no notice , only asked her if she had not seen Mr. Rushworth . 
And she immediately scrambled across the fence and walked away , not attending to Fanny 's last question of whether she had seen any thing of Miss Crawford and Edmund . 
The sort of dread in which Fanny now sat of seeing Mr. Rushworth , prevented her thinking so much of their continued absence , however , as she might have done . 
And he sat down with a most gloomy countenance by Fanny . 
`` I am very sorry , '' said she ; `` it is very unlucky . '' 
And she longed to be able to say something more to the purpose . 
This could not be denied , and Fanny was silenced . 
A small sigh escaped Fanny here , and she did not know how to contradict him . 
Fanny thought she discerned in his standing there , an indication of relenting , which encouraged her to another attempt , and she said , therefore , `` It is a pity you should not join them . 
She found herself more successful in sending away , than in retaining a companion . 
Fanny 's thoughts were now all engrossed by the two who had left her so long ago , and getting quite impatient , she resolved to go in search of them . 
She followed their steps along the bottom walk , and had just turned up into another , when the voice and the laugh of Miss Crawford once more caught her ear ; the sound approached , and a few more windings brought them before her . 
They were just returned into the wilderness from the park , to which a side gate , not fastened , had tempted them very soon after their leaving her , and they had been across a portion of the park into the very avenue which Fanny had been hoping the whole morning to reach at last ; and had been sitting down under one of the trees . 
Fanny 's best consolation was in being assured that Edmund had wished for her very much , and that he should certainly have come back for her , had she not been tired already ; but this was not quite sufficient to do away the pain of having been left a whole hour , when he had talked of only a few minutes , nor to banish the sort of curiosity she felt , to know what they had been conversing about all that time ; and the result of the whole was to her disappointment and depression , as they prepared , by general agreement , to re-return to the house . 
By their own accounts they had been all walking after each other , and the junction which had taken place at last seemed , to Fanny 's observation , to have been as much too late for re-establishing harmony , as it confessedly had been for determining on any alteration . 
She felt , as she looked at Julia and Mr. Rushworth , that her 's was not the only dissatisfied bosom amongst them ; there was gloom on the face of each . 
`` Well , Fanny , this has been a fine day for you , upon my word ! '' 
There Fanny , you shall carry that parcel for me -- take great care of it -- do not let it fall ; it is a cream cheese , just like the excellent one we had at dinner . 
Take care of the cheese , Fanny . 
Mrs. Norris gave the particulars of the letters , and the subject was dropt ; but after tea , as Miss Crawford was standing at an open window with Edmund and Fanny looking out on a twilight scene , while the Miss Bertrams , Mr. Rushworth , and Henry Crawford , were all busy with candles at the pianoforte , she suddenly revived it by turning round towards the group , and saying , `` How happy Mr. Rushworth looks ! 
`` But that I am sure it has not , '' cried Fanny . 
`` Thank you for your good word , Fanny , but it is more than I would affirm myself . 
`` It is the same sort of thing , '' said Fanny , after a short pause , `` as for the son of an admiral to go into the navy , or the son of a general to be in the army , and nobody sees any thing wrong in that . 
He has met with great kindness from the Chaplain of the Antwerp , '' was a tender apostrophe of Fanny 's , very much to the purpose of her own feelings , if not of the conversation . 
Fanny , it goes against us . 
`` No , '' replied Fanny , `` but we need not give up his profession for all that ; because , whatever profession Dr. Grant had chosen , he would have taken a -- not a good temper into it ; and as he must either in the Navy or Army have had a great many more people under his command than he has now , I think more would have been made unhappy by him as a Sailor or Soldier than as a Clergyman . 
`` I think the man who could often quarrel with Fanny , '' said Edmund , affectionately , `` must be beyond the reach of any sermons . '' 
Fanny turned farther into the window ; and Miss Crawford had only time to say in a pleasant manner , `` I fancy Miss Price has been more used to deserve praise than to hear it , '' when being earnestly invited by the Miss Bertrams to join in a glee , she tripped off to the instrument , leaving Edmund looking after her in an ecstacy of admiration of all her many virtues , from her obliging manners down to her light and graceful tread . 
Fanny agreed to it , and had the pleasure of seeing him continue at the window with her , in spite of the expected glee ; and of having his eyes soon turned like her 's towards the scene without , where all that was solemn and soothing , and lovely , appeared in the brilliancy of an unclouded night , and the contrast of the deep shade of the woods . 
Fanny spoke her feelings . 
said she , `` Here 's repose ! 
`` I like to hear your enthusiasm , Fanny . 
`` We will stay till this is finished , Fanny , '' said he , turning his back on the window ; and as it advanced , she had the mortification of seeing him advance too , moving forward by gentle degrees towards the instrument , and when it ceased , he was close by the singers , among the most urgent in requesting to hear the glee again . 
Fanny sighed alone at the window till scolded away by Mrs. Norris 's threats of catching cold . 
Fanny was the only one of the party who found anything to dislike ; but since the day at Sotherton , she could never see Mr. Crawford with either sister without observation , and seldom without wonder or censure ; and had her confidence in her own judgment been equal to her exercise of it in every other respect , had she been sure that she was seeing clearly , and judging candidly , she would probably have made some important communications to her usual confidant . 
As it was , however , she only hazarded a hint , and the hint was lost . 
`` I am rather surprised , '' said she , `` that Mr. Crawford should come back again so soon , after being here so long before , full seven weeks ; for I had understood he was so very fond of change and moving about , that I thought something would certainly occur when he was once gone , to take him elsewhere . 
`` If Miss Bertram were not engaged , '' said Fanny , cautiously , `` I could sometimes almost think that he admired her more than Julia . '' 
`` Which is , perhaps , more in favour of his liking Julia best , than you , Fanny , may be aware ; for I believe it often happens , that a man , before he has quite made up his own mind , will distinguish the sister or intimate friend of the woman he is really thinking of , more than the woman herself . 
Fanny supposed she must have been mistaken , and meant to think differently in future ; but with all that submission to Edmund could do , and all the help of the coinciding looks and hints which she occasionally noticed in some of the others , and which seemed to say that Julia was Mr. Crawford 's choice , she knew not always what to think . 
It was Fanny 's first ball , though without the preparation or splendour of many a young lady 's first ball , being the thought only of the afternoon , built on the late acquisition of a violin player in the servants ' hall , and the possibility of raising five couple with the help of Mrs. Grant and a new intimate friend of Mr. Bertram 's just arrived on a visit . 
It had , however , been a very happy one to Fanny through four dances , and she was quite grieved to be losing even a quarter of an hour . 
How she had looked before , Fanny could not recollect , for she had been dancing with Edmund herself , and had not thought about her . 
Fanny could listen no farther . 
Listening and wondering were all suspended for a time , for Mr. Bertram was in the room again , and though feeling it would be a great honour to be asked by him , she thought it must happen . 
He came towards their little circle ; but instead of asking her to dance , drew a chair near her , and gave her an account of the present state of a sick horse , and the opinion of the groom , from whom he had just parted . 
Fanny found that it was not to be , and in the modesty of her nature immediately felt that she had been unreasonable in expecting it . 
When he had told of his horse , he took a newspaper from the table , and looking over it said in a languid way , `` If you want to dance , Fanny , I will stand up with you . '' 
-- With more than equal civility the offer was declined ; -- she did not wish to dance . 
A desperate dull life her 's must be with the doctor , '' making a sly face as he spoke towards the chair of the latter , who proving , however , to be close at his elbow , made so instantaneous a change of expression and subject necessary , as Fanny , in spite of every thing , could hardly help laughing at . 
Come , Fanny , '' -- taking her hand -- `` do not be dawdling any longer , or the dance will be over . '' 
Fanny was led off very willingly , though it was impossible for her to feel much gratitude towards her Cousin , or distinguish , as he certainly did , between the selfishness of another person and his own . 
Tom returning from them into the drawing-room , where Edmund was standing thoughtfully by the fire , while lady Bertram was on the sofa at a little distance , and Fanny close beside her arranging her work , thus began as he entered . 
Lady Bertram , sunk back in one corner of the sofa , the picture of health , wealth , ease , and tranquillity , was just falling into a gentle doze , while Fanny was getting through the few difficulties of her work for her . 
asked her Ladyship in the heavy tone of one half roused , -- `` I was not asleep . '' 
Fanny , who had heard it all , and borne Edmund company in every feeling throughout the whole , now ventured to say , in her anxiety to suggest some comfort , `` Perhaps they may not be able to find any play to suit them . 
`` I have no hope there , Fanny . 
Fanny seemed nearer being right than Edmund had supposed . 
Fanny looked on and listened , not unamused to observe the selfishness which , more or less disguised , seemed to govern them all , and wondering how it would end . 
For her own gratification she could have wished that something might be acted , for she had never seen even half a play , but every thing of higher consequence was against it . 
And so saying , she walked hastily out of the room , leaving awkward feelings to more than one , but exciting small compassion in any except Fanny , who had been a quiet auditor of the whole , and who could not think of her as under the agitations of Jealousy , without great pity . 
A short silence succeeded her leaving them ; but her brother soon returned to business and Lovers Vows , and was eagerly looking over the play , with Mr. Yates 's help , to ascertain what scenery would be necessary -- while Maria and Henry Crawford conversed together in an under voice , and the declaration with which she began of , `` I am sure I would give up the part to Julia most willingly , but that though I shall probably do it very ill , I feel persuaded she would do it worse , '' was doubtless receiving all the compliments it called for . 
When this had lasted some time , the division of the party was completed by Tom Bertram , and Mr. Yates walking off together to consult farther in the room now beginning to be called the Theatre , and Miss Bertram 's resolving to go down to the Parsonage herself with the offer of Amelia to Miss Crawford ; and Fanny remained alone . 
The first use she made of her solitude was to take up the volume which had been left on the table , and begin to acquaint herself with the play of which she had heard so much . 
Her curiosity was all awake , and she ran through it with an eagerness which was suspended only by intervals of astonishment , that it could be chosen in the present instance -- that it could be proposed and accepted in a private Theatre ! 
Fanny 's eyes followed Edmund , and her heart beat for him as she heard this speech , and saw his look , and felt what his sensations must be . 
`` I should not have thought it the sort of play to be so easily filled up , with us , '' replied Edmund , turning away to the fire where sat his Mother , Aunt , and Fanny , and seating himself with a look of great vexation . 
-- Fanny , ring the bell ; I must have my dinner . 
`` I am convinced , Madam , '' said Edmund , preventing Fanny , `` that Sir Thomas would not like it . '' 
The actors may be glad , but the by-standers must be infinitely more thankful for a decision ; and I do sincerely give you joy , Madam , as well as Mrs. Norris , and every body else who is in the same predicament , '' glancing half fearfully , half slily , beyond Fanny to Edmund . 
`` Fanny , '' cried Tom Bertram , from the other table , where the conference was eagerly carrying on , and the conversation incessant , `` we want your services . '' 
Fanny was up in a moment , expecting some errand , for the habit of employing her in that way was not yet overcome , in spite of all that Edmund could do . 
cried Fanny , sitting down again with a most frightened look . 
`` It is not that I am afraid of learning by heart , '' said Fanny , shocked to find herself at that moment the only speaker in the room , and to feel that almost every eye was upon her ; `` but I really can not act . '' 
`` You must excuse me , indeed you must excuse me , '' cried Fanny , growing more and more red from excessive agitation , and looking distressfully at Edmund , who was kindly observing her , but unwilling to exasperate his brother by interference , gave her only an encouraging smile . 
Her entreaty had no effect on Tom ; he only said again what he had said before ; and it was not merely Tom , for the requisition was now backed by Maria and Mr. Crawford , and Mr. Yates , with an urgency which differed from his , but in being more gentle or more ceremonious , and which altogether was quite overpowering to Fanny ; and before she could breathe after it , Mrs. Norris completed the whole , by thus addressing her in a whisper at once angry and audible , `` What a piece of work here is about nothing , -- I am quite ashamed of you , Fanny , to make such a difficulty of obliging your Cousins in a trifle of this sort , -- So kind as they are to you ! 
`` Do not urge her , Madam , '' said Edmund , `` It is not fair to urge her in this manner . 
-- You see she does not like to act . 
-- Let her chuse for herself as well as the rest of us . 
-- Her judgment may be quite as safely trusted . 
-- Do not urge her any more . '' 
`` I am not going to urge her , '' -- replied Mrs. Norris sharply , `` but I shall think her a very obstinate , ungrateful girl , if she does not do what her Aunt and Cousins wish her -- very ungrateful indeed , considering who and what she is . '' 
Edmund was too angry to speak ; but Miss Crawford looking for a moment with astonished eyes at Mrs. Norris , and then at Fanny , whose tears were beginning to show themselves , immediately said with some keenness , `` I do not like my situation ; this place is too hot for me '' -- and moved away her chair to the opposite side of the table close to Fanny , saying to her in a kind low whisper as she placed herself , `` Never mind , my dear Miss Price -- this is a cross evening , -- everybody is cross and teizing -- but do not let us mind them ; '' and with pointed attention continued to talk to her and endeavour to raise her spirits , in spite of being out of spirits herself . 
-- By a look at her brother , she prevented any farther entreaty from the Theatrical board , and the really good feelings by which she was almost purely governed , were rapidly restoring her to all the little she had lost in Edmund 's favour . 
Fanny did not love Miss Crawford ; but she felt very much obliged to her for her present kindness ; and when from taking notice of her work and wishing she could work as well , and begging for the pattern , and supposing Fanny was now preparing for her appearance as of course she would come out when her cousin was married , Miss Crawford proceeded to enquire if she had heard lately from her brother at sea , and said that she had quite a curiosity to see him , and imagined him a very fine young man , and advised Fanny to get his picture drawn before he went to sea again -- She could not help admitting it to be very agreeable flattery , or help listening , and answering with more animation than she had intended . 
The consultation upon the play still went on , and Miss Crawford 's attention was first called from Fanny by Tom Bertram 's telling her , with infinite regret , that he found it absolutely impossible for him to undertake the part of Anhalt in addition to the Butler ; -- he had been most anxiously trying to make it out to be feasible , -- but it would not do , -- he must give it up . 
-- `` But there will not be the smallest difficulty in filling it , he added . 
`` I am not very sanguine as to our play '' -- said Miss Crawford in an under voice , to Fanny , after some consideration ; `` and I can tell Mr. Maddox , that I shall shorten some of his speeches , and a great many of my own , before we rehearse together . 
It was not in Miss Crawford 's power to talk Fanny into any real forgetfulness of what had passed . 
-- The room had then become useless , and for some time was quite deserted , except by Fanny , when she visited her plants , or wanted one of the books , which she was still glad to keep there , from the deficiency of space and accommodation in her little chamber above ; -- but gradually , as her value for the comforts of it increased , she had added to her possessions , and spent more of her time there ; and having nothing to oppose her , had so naturally and so artlessly worked herself into it , that it was now generally admitted to be her 's . 
The East room as it had been called , ever since Maria Bertram was sixteen , was now considered Fanny 's , almost as decidedly as the white Attic ; -- the smallness of the one making the use of the other so evidently reasonable , that the Miss Bertrams , with every superiority in their own apartments , which their own sense of superiority could demand , were entirely approving it ; -- and Mrs. Norris having stipulated for there never being a fire in it on Fanny 's account , was tolerably resigned to her having the use of what nobody else wanted , though the terms in which she sometimes spoke of the indulgence , seemed to imply that it was the best room in the house . 
The aspect was so favourable , that even without a fire it was habitable in many an early spring , and late autumn morning , to such a willing mind as Fanny 's , and while there was a gleam of sunshine , she hoped not to be driven from it entirely , even when winter came . 
The comfort of it in her hours of leisure was extreme . 
She could go there after any thing unpleasant below , and find immediate consolation in some pursuit , or some train of thought at hand . 
-- Her plants , her books -- of which she had been a collector , from the first hour of her commanding a shilling -- her writing desk , and her works of charity and ingenuity , were all within her reach ; -- or if indisposed for employment , if nothing but musing would do , she could scarcely see an object in that room which had not an interesting remembrance connected with it . 
-- Every thing was a friend , or bore her thoughts to a friend ; and though there had been sometimes much of suffering to her -- though her motives had been often misunderstood , her feelings disregarded , and her comprehension under valued ; though she had known the pains of tyranny , of ridicule , and neglect , yet almost every recurrence of either had led to something consolatory ; her Aunt Bertram had spoken for her , or Miss Lee had been encouraging , or what was yet more frequent or more dear -- Edmund had been her champion and her friend ; -- he had supported her cause , or explained her meaning , he had told her not to cry , or had given her some proof of affection which made her tears delightful -- and the whole was now so blended together , so harmonized by distance , that every former affliction had its charm . 
The room was most dear to her , and she would not have changed its furniture for the handsomest in the house , though what had been originally plain , had suffered all the ill-usage of children -- and its greatest elegancies and ornaments were a faded foot-stool of Julia 's work , too ill done for the drawing-room , three transparencies , made in a range for transparencies , for the three lower panes of one window , where Tintern Abbey held its station between a cave in Italy , and a moonlight lake in Cumberland ; a collection of family profiles thought unworthy of being anywhere else , over the mantle piece , and by their side and pinned against the wall , a small sketch of a ship sent four years ago from the Mediterranean by William , with H. M. S. Antwerp at the bottom , in letters as tall as the main-mast . 
To this nest of comforts Fanny now walked down to try its influence on an agitated , doubting spirit -- to see if by looking at Edmund 's profile she could catch any of his counsel , or by giving air to her geraniums she might inhale a breeze of mental strength herself . 
But she had more than fears of her own perseverance to remove ; she had begun to feel undecided as to what she ought to do ; and as she walked round the room her doubts were increasing . 
Was she right in refusing what was so warmly asked , so strongly wished for ? 
What might be so essential to a scheme on which some of those to whom she owed the greatest complaisance , had set their hearts ? 
And would Edmund 's judgment , would his persuasion of Sir Thomas 's disapprobation of the whole , be enough to justify her in a determined denial in spite of all the rest ? 
It would be so horrible to her to act , that she was inclined to suspect the truth and purity of her own scruples , and as she looked around her , the claims of her cousins to being obliged , were strengthened by the sight of present upon present that she had received from them . 
The table between the windows was covered with work-boxes and netting-boxes , which had been given her at different times , principally by Tom ; and she grew bewildered as to the amount of the debt which all these kind remembrances produced . 
A tap at the door roused her in the midst of this attempt to find her way to her duty , and her gentle `` come in , '' was answered by the appearance of one , before whom all her doubts were wont to be laid . 
Her eyes brightened at the sight of Edmund . 
`` Can I speak with you , Fanny , for a few minutes ? '' 
she cried , shrinking from such a compliment , highly as it gratified her . 
`` There is but one thing to be done , Fanny . 
Fanny could not answer him . 
Can you , Fanny ? '' 
`` No , '' said Fanny , slowly , `` not immediately -- but -- '' `` But what ? 
Put yourself in Miss Crawford 's place , Fanny . 
Does not it strike you so , Fanny ? 
`` Give me your approbation , then , Fanny . 
It must be a great relief to her , '' said Fanny , trying for greater warmth of manner . 
She could not finish the generous effusion . 
Her conscience stopt her in the middle , but Edmund was satisfied . 
And now , dear Fanny , I will not interrupt you any longer . 
He went ; but there was no reading , no China , no composure for Fanny . 
He had told her the most extraordinary , the most inconceivable , the most unwelcome news ; and she could think of nothing else . 
After all that she had heard him say , and seen him look , and known him to be feeling . 
`` Perhaps , '' said Tom , `` Fanny , may be more disposed to oblige us now . 
And not another word was said ; but Fanny felt herself again in danger , and her indifference to the danger was beginning to fail her already . '' 
One advantage resulted from it to Fanny ; at the earnest request of Miss Crawford , Mrs. Grant had with her usual good humour agreed to undertake the part for which Fanny had been wanted -- and this was all that occurred to gladden her heart during the day ; and even this , when imparted by Edmund , brought a pang with it , for it was Miss Crawford to whom she was obliged , it was Miss Crawford whose kind exertions were to excite her gratitude , and whose merit in making them was spoken of with a glow of admiration . 
Mrs. Grant was of consequence ; her good nature had honourable mention -- her taste and her time were considered -- her presence was wanted -- she was sought for and attended , and praised ; and Fanny was at first in some danger of envying her the character she had accepted . 
But reflection brought better feelings , and shewed her that Mrs. Grant was entitled to respect , which could never have belonged to her , and that had she received even the greatest , she could never have been easy in joining a scheme which , considering only her uncle , she must condemn altogether . 
Fanny 's heart was not absolutely the only sadden 'd one amongst them , as she soon began to acknowledge herself . 
Fanny saw and pitied much of this in Julia ; but there was no outward fellowship between them . 
Julia made no communication , and Fanny took no liberties . 
They were two solitary sufferers , or connected only by Fanny 's consciousness . 
Every thing was now in a regular train ; theatre , actors , actresses , and dresses , were all getting forward ; but though no other great impediments arose , Fanny found , before many days were past , that it was not all uninterrupted enjoyment to the party themselves , and that she had not to witness the continuance of such unanimity and delight , as had been almost too much for her at first . 
Fanny , being always a very courteous listener , and often the only listener at hand , came in for the complaints and distresses of most of them . 
She knew that Mr. Yates was in general thought to rant dreadfully , that Mr. Yates was disappointed in Henry Crawford , that Tom Bertram spoke so quick he would be unintelligible , that Mrs. Grant spoilt every thing by laughing , that Edmund was behind-hand with his part , and that it was misery to have any thing to do with Mr. Rushworth , who was wanting a prompter through every speech . 
Fanny believed herself to derive as much innocent enjoyment from the Play as any of them ; -- Henry Crawford acted well , and it was a pleasure to her to creep into the Theatre , and attend the rehearsal of the first act -- in spite of the feelings it excited in some speeches for Maria . 
-- Maria , she also thought acted well -- too well ; -- and after the first rehearsal or two , Fanny began to be their only audience -- and sometimes as prompter , sometimes as spectator -- was often very useful . 
-- As far as she could judge , Mr. Crawford was considerably the best actor of all ; he had more confidence than Edmund , more judgment than Tom , more talent and taste than Mr. Yates . 
-- She did not like him as a man , but she must admit him to be the best actor , and on this point there were not many who differed from her . 
Mr. Yates , indeed , exclaimed against his tameness and insipidity -- and the day came at last , when Mr. Rushworth turned to her with a black look , and said -- `` Do you think there is any thing so very fine in all this ? 
Fanny , in her pity and kind-heartedness , was at great pains to teach him how to learn , giving him all the helps and directions in her power , trying to make an artificial memory for him , and learning every word of his part herself , but without his being much the forwarder . 
Many uncomfortable , anxious , apprehensive feelings she certainly had ; but with all these , and other claims on her time and attention , she was as far from finding herself without employment or utility amongst them , as without a companion in uneasiness ; quite as far from having no demand on her leisure as on her compassion . 
The gloom of her first anticipations was proved to have been unfounded . 
She was occasionally useful to all ; she was perhaps as much at peace as any . 
There was a great deal of needlework to be done moreover , in which her help was wanted , and that Mrs. Norris thought her quite as well off as the rest , was evident by the manner in which she claimed it , `` Come Fanny , '' she cried , `` these are fine times for you , but you must not be always walking from one room to the other and doing the lookings on , at your ease , in this way , -- I want you here . 
Fanny took the work very quietly without attempting any defence ; but her kinder aunt Bertram observed on her behalf , `` One can not wonder , Sister , that Fanny should be delighted ; it is all new to her , you know , -- you and I used to be very fond of a play ourselves -- and so am I still ; -- and as soon as I am a little more at leisure , I mean to look in at their Rehearsals too . 
What is the play about , Fanny , you have never told me ? '' 
sister , pray do not ask her now ; for Fanny is not one of those who can talk and work at the same time . 
`` I believe '' said Fanny to her aunt Bertram , `` there will be three Acts rehearsed to-morrow evening , and that will give you an opportunity of seeing all the actors at once . '' 
-- Fanny did not share her aunt 's composure ; she thought of the morrow a great deal , -- for if the three acts were rehearsed , Edmund and Miss Crawford would then be acting together for the first time ; -- the third act would bring a scene between them which interested her most particularly , and which she was longing and dreading to see how they would perform . 
The morrow came , the plan for the evening continued , and Fanny 's consideration of it did not become less agitated . 
She worked very diligently under her aunt 's directions , but her diligence and her silence concealed a very absent , anxious mind ; and about noon she made her escape with her work to the east room , that she might have no concern in another , and , as she deemed it , most unnecessary rehearsal of the first act , which Henry Crawford was just proposing , desirous at once of having her time to herself , and of avoiding the sight of Mr. Rushworth . 
A glimpse , as she passed through the hall , of the two ladies walking up from the parsonage , made no change in her wish of retreat , and she worked and meditated in the east room , undisturbed , for a quarter of an hour , when a gentle tap at the door was followed by the entrance of Miss Crawford . 
Fanny , quite surprised , endeavoured to shew herself mistress of the room by her civilities , and looked at the bright bars of her empty grate with concern . 
Fanny was most civil in her assurances , though she could not give them in a very steady voice . 
She began , and Fanny joined in with all the modest feeling which the idea of representing Edmund was so strongly calculated to inspire ; but with looks and voice so truly feminine , as to be no very good picture of a man . 
He too had his book , and was seeking Fanny , to ask her to rehearse with him , and help him prepare for the evening , without knowing Miss Crawford to be in the house ; and great was the joy and animation of being thus thrown together -- of comparing schemes -- and sympathising in praise of Fanny 's kind offices . 
She could not equal them in their warmth . 
Her spirits sank under the glow of theirs , and she felt herself becoming too nearly nothing to both , to have any comfort in having been sought by either . 
Edmund proposed , urged , entreated it -- till the lady , not very unwilling at first , could refuse no longer -- and Fanny was wanted only to prompt and observe them . 
She was invested , indeed , with the office of judge and critic , and earnestly desired to exercise it and tell them all their faults ; but from doing so every feeling within her shrank , she could not , would not , dared not attempt it ; had she been otherwise qualified for criticism , her conscience must have restrained her from venturing at disapprobation . 
She believed herself to feel too much of it in the aggregate for honesty or safety in particulars . 
To prompt them must be enough for her ; and it was sometimes more than enough ; for she could not always pay attention to the book . 
In watching them she forget herself ; and agitated by the increasing spirit of Edmund 's manner , had once closed the page and turned away exactly as he wanted help . 
It was imputed to very reasonable weariness , and she was thanked and pitied ; but she deserved their pity , more than she hoped they would ever surmise . 
At last the scene was over , and Fanny forced herself to add her praise to the compliments each was giving the other ; and when again alone and able to recall the whole , she was inclined to believe their performance would , indeed , have such nature and feeling in it as must ensure their credit , and make it a very suffering exhibition to herself . 
Whatever might be its effect , however , she must stand the brunt of it again that very day . 
After a pause of perplexity , some eyes began to be turned towards Fanny , and a voice or two , to say , `` If Miss Price would be so good as to read the part . '' 
She was immediately surrounded by supplications , every body asked it , even Edmund said , `` Do Fanny , if it is not very disagreeable to you . '' 
But Fanny still hung back . 
She could not endure the idea of it . 
Fanny , I am sure you know the part . '' 
Fanny could not say she did not -- and as they all persevered -- as Edmund repeated his wish , and with a look of even fond dependence on her good nature , she must yield . 
She would do her best . 
Every body was satisfied -- and she was left to the tremors of a most palpitating heart , while the others prepared to begin . 
Fanny was left with only the Crawfords and Mr. Yates . 
She had been quite overlooked by her cousins , and as her own opinion of her claims on Sir Thomas 's affection was much too humble to give her any idea of classing herself with his children , she was glad to remain behind and gain a little breathing time . 
Her agitation and alarm exceeded all that was endured by the rest , by the right of a disposition which not even innocence could keep from suffering . 
She was nearly fainting : all her former habitual dread of her uncle was returning , and with it compassion for him and for almost every one of the party on the development before them -- with solicitude on Edmund 's account indescribable . 
She had found a seat , where in excessive trembling she was enduring all these fearful thoughts , while the other three , no longer under any restraint , were giving vent to their feelings of vexation , lamenting over such an unlooked for premature arrival as a most untoward event , and without mercy wishing poor Sir Thomas had been twice as long on his passage , or were still in Antigua . 
Fanny was just beginning to collect herself and to feel that if she staid longer behind it might seem disrespectful , when this point was settled , and being commissioned with the brother and sisters apology , saw them preparing to go as she quitted the room herself to perform the dreadful duty of appearing before her uncle . 
Too soon did she find herself at the drawing-room door , and after pausing a moment for what she knew would not come , for a courage which the outside of no door had ever supplied to her , she turned the lock in desperation , and the lights of the drawing-room and all the collected family were before her . 
As she entered , her own name caught her ear . 
Sir Thomas was at that moment looking round him , and saying `` But where is Fanny ? 
-- Why do not I see my little Fanny ? '' 
And on perceiving her , came forward with a kindness which astonished and penetrated her , calling her his dear Fanny , kissing her affectionately , and observing with decided pleasure how much she was grown ! 
Fanny knew not how to feel , nor where to look . 
She was quite oppressed . 
He had never been so kind , so very kind to her in his life . 
He led her nearer the light and looked at her again -- inquired particularly after her health , and then correcting himself , observed , that he need not inquire , for her appearance spoke sufficiently on that point . 
A fine blush having succeeded the previous paleness of her face , he was justified in his belief of her equal improvement in health and beauty . 
He inquired next after her family , especially William ; and his kindness altogether was such as made her reproach herself for loving him so little , and thinking his return a misfortune ; and when , on having courage to lift her eyes to his face , she saw that he was grown thinner and had the burnt , fagged , worn look of fatigue and a hot climate , every tender feeling was increased , and she was miserable in considering how much unsuspected vexation was probably ready to burst on him . 
For the present the danger was over , and Fanny 's sick feelings subsided ; but when tea was soon afterwards brought in , and Sir Thomas , getting up , said that he found he could not be any longer in the house without just looking into his own dear room , every agitation was returning . 
-- `` Where did you leave Miss Crawford , Fanny ? '' 
Fanny told of their departure , and delivered their message . 
Not less acutely was it felt by Fanny , who had edged back her chair behind her aunt 's end of the sofa , and screened from notice herself , saw all that was passing before her . 
Such a look of reproach at Edmund from his father she could never have expected to witness ; and to feel that it was in any degree deserved , was an aggravation indeed . 
-- She knelt in spirit to her uncle , and her bosom swelled to utter , `` Oh ! 
`` We have all been more or less to blame , said he , every one of us excepting Fanny . 
Fanny is the only one who has judged rightly throughout , who has been consistent . 
Her feelings have been steadily against it from first to last . 
She never ceased to think of what was due to you . 
You will find Fanny every thing you could wish . '' 
With a purer spirit did Fanny rejoice in the intelligence . 
`` But they , '' he observed to Fanny , `` have a claim . 
said Fanny . 
`` I believe you are right , Fanny '' was his reply , after a short consideration . 
`` I suppose I am graver than other people , '' said Fanny . 
But when did you or any body ever get a compliment from me , Fanny ? 
Such language was so new to Fanny that it quite embarrassed her . 
`` Your uncle thinks you very pretty , dear Fanny -- and that is the long and the short of the matter . 
-- and your figure -- Nay , Fanny , do not turn away about it -- It is but an uncle . 
do n't talk so , do n't talk so , '' cried Fanny , distressed by more feelings than he was aware of ; but seeing that she was distressed , he had done with the subject and only added more seriously , `` Your uncle is disposed to be pleased with you in every respect ; and I only wish you would talk to him more . 
`` She must know herself too secure of the regard of all the rest of you , '' said Fanny with half a sigh , `` to have any such apprehension . 
Fanny could have said a great deal , but it was safer to say nothing , and leave untouched all Miss Crawford 's resources , her accomplishments , her spirits , her importance , her friends , lest it should betray her into any observations seemingly unhandsome . 
`` That is impossible , Fanny . 
Fanny 's consequence increased on the departure of her cousins . 
Becoming as she then did , the only young woman in the drawing-room , the only occupier of that interesting division of a family in which she had hitherto held so humble a third , it was impossible for her not to be more looked at , more thought of and attended to , than she had ever been before ; and `` where is Fanny ? '' 
Mrs. Grant , really eager to get any change for her sister , could by the easiest self-deceit persuade herself that she was doing the kindest thing by Fanny , and giving her the most important opportunities of improvement in pressing her frequent calls . 
Fanny having been sent into the village on some errand by her aunt Norris , was overtaken by a heavy shower close to the Parsonage , and being descried from one of the windows , endeavouring to find shelter under the branches and lingering leaves of an oak just beyond their premises , was forced , though not without some modest reluctance on her part , to come in . 
A civil servant she had withstood ; but when Dr. Grant himself went out with an umbrella , there was nothing to be done but to be very much ashamed and to get into the house as fast as possible ; and to poor Miss Crawford , who had just been contemplating the dismal rain in a very desponding state of mind , sighing over the ruin of all her plan of exercise for that morning , and of every chance of seeing a single creature beyond themselves for the next twenty-four hours ; the sound of a little bustle at the front door , and the sight of Miss Price dripping with wet in the vestibule , was delightful . 
She was all alive again directly , and among the most active in being useful to Fanny , in detecting her to be wetter than she would at first allow , and providing her with dry clothes ; and Fanny after being obliged to submit to all this attention , and to being assisted and waited on by mistresses and maids , being also obliged on returning down stairs , to be fixed in their drawing-room for an hour while the rain continued , the blessing of something fresh to see and think of was thus extended to Miss Crawford , and might carry on her spirits to the period of dressing and dinner . 
The two sisters were so kind to her and so pleasant , that Fanny might have enjoyed her visit could she have believed herself not in the way , and could she have foreseen that the weather would certainly clear at the end of the hour , and save her from the shame of having Dr. Grant 's carriage and horses out to take her home , with which she was threatened . 
As to anxiety for any alarm that her absence in such weather might occasion at home , she had nothing to suffer on that score ; for as her being out was known only to her two aunts , she was perfectly aware that none would be felt , and that in whatever cottage aunt Norris might chuse to establish her during the rain , her being in such cottage would be indubitable to aunt Bertram . 
It was beginning to look brighter , when Fanny observing a harp in the room , asked some questions about it , which soon led to an acknowledgment of her wishing very much to hear it , and a confession which could hardly be believed , of her having never yet heard it since its being in Mansfield . 
To Fanny herself it appeared a very simple and natural circumstance . 
She played till Fanny 's eyes , straying to the window on the weather 's being evidently fair , spoke what she felt must be done . 
`` But they are passed over , '' said Fanny . 
Fanny felt that she must ; and though she had not waited for that sentence to be thinking of Edmund , such a memento made her particularly awake to his idea , and she fancied him sitting in that room again and again , perhaps in the very spot where she sat now , listening with constant delight to the favourite air , played , as it appeared to her , with superior tone and expression ; and though pleased with it herself , and glad to like whatever was liked by him , she was more sincerely impatient to go away at the conclusion of it than she had been before ; and on this being evident , she was so kindly asked to call again , to take them in her walk whenever she could , to come and hear more of the harp , that she felt it necessary to be done , if no objection arose at home . 
Such was the origin of the sort of intimacy which took place between them within the first fortnight after the Miss Bertrams ' going away , an intimacy resulting principally from Miss Crawford 's desire of something new , and which had little reality in Fanny 's feelings . 
Fanny went to her every two or three days ; it seemed a kind of fascination ; she could not be easy without going , and yet it was without loving her , without ever thinking like her , without any sense of obligation for being sought after now when nobody else was to be had ; and deriving no higher pleasure from her conversation than occasional amusement , and that often at the expense of her judgment , when it was raised by pleasantry on people or subjects which she wished to be respected . 
She went however , and they sauntered about together many an half hour in Mrs. Grant 's shrubbery , the weather being unusually mild for the time of year ; and venturing sometimes even to sit down on one of the benches now comparatively unsheltered , remaining there perhaps till in the midst of some tender ejaculation of Fanny 's , on the sweets of so protracted an autumn , they were forced by the sudden swell of a cold gust shaking down the last few yellow leaves about them , to jump up and walk for warmth . 
`` This is pretty -- very pretty , '' said Fanny , looking around her as they were thus sitting together one day ; `` Every time I come into this shrubbery I am more struck with its growth and beauty . 
And following the latter train of thought , she soon afterwards added : `` If any one faculty of our nature may be called more wonderful than the rest , I do think it is memory . 
Miss Crawford untouched and inattentive , had nothing to say ; and Fanny perceiving it , brought back her own mind to what she thought must interest . 
said Fanny in reply . 
Fanny 's heart beat quick , and she felt quite unequal to surmising or soliciting anything more . 
was all that Fanny attempted to say . 
Fanny was silent -- and Miss Crawford relapsed into thoughtfulness , till suddenly looking up at the end of a few minutes , she exclaimed , `` Ah ! 
cried Fanny . 
A friendship between two so very dear to him was exactly what he could have wished ; and to the credit of the lover 's understanding be it stated , that he did not by any means consider Fanny as the only , or even as the greater gainer by such a friendship . 
`` You intend to be very rich , '' said Edmund , with a look which to Fanny 's eye had a great deal of serious meaning . 
A look of consciousness as he spoke , and what seemed a consciousness of manner on Miss Crawford 's side as she made some laughing answer , was sorrowful food for Fanny 's observation ; and finding herself quite unable to attend as she ought to Mrs. Grant , by whose side she was now following the others , she had nearly resolved on going home immediately , and only waited for courage to say so , when the sound of the great clock at Mansfield park , striking three , made her feel that she had really been much longer absent than usual , and brought the previous self-inquiry of whether she should take leave or not just then and how , to a very speedy issue . 
Fanny 's hurry increased , and without in the least expecting Edmund 's attendance she would have hastened away alone ; but the general pace was quickened , and they all accompanied her into the house through which it was necessary to pass . 
-- In the moment of parting Edmund was invited by Dr. Grant to eat his mutton with him the next day ; and Fanny had barely time for an unpleasant feeling on the occasion , when Mrs. Grant with sudden recollection turned to her and asked for the pleasure of her company too . 
This was so new an attention , so perfectly new a circumstance in the events of Fanny 's life , that she was all surprise and embarrassment ; and while stammering out her great obligation , and her -- `` but she did not suppose it would be in her power , '' was looking at Edmund for his opinion and help . 
-- But Edmund , delighted with her having such an happiness offered , and ascertaining with half a look , and half a sentence , that she had no objection but on her aunt 's account , could not imagine that his mother would make any difficulty of sparing her , and therefore gave his decided open advice that the invitation should be accepted ; and though Fanny would not venture , even on his encouragement , to such a flight of audacious independence , it was soon settled that if nothing were heard to the contrary , Mrs. Grant might expect her . 
`` But why should Mrs. Grant ask Fanny ? '' 
`` How came she to think of asking Fanny ? 
-- Fanny never dines there you know in this sort of way . 
I can not spare her , and I am sure she does not want to go . 
-- Fanny , you do not want to go , do you ? '' 
`` If you put such a question to her , '' cried Edmund , preventing his cousin 's speaking , `` Fanny will immediately say , no ; but I am sure , my dear mother , she would like to go ; and I can see no reason why she should not . '' 
-- She used to ask your sisters now and then , but she never asked Fanny . '' 
`` If you can not do without me , ma'am , '' said Fanny , in a self-denying tone -- `` But my mother will have my father with her all the evening . '' 
`` As you please , ma'am , on that head ; but I meant my father 's opinion as to the propriety of the invitation 's being accepted or not ; and I think he will consider it a right thing by Mrs. Grant , as well as by Fanny , that being the first invitation it should be accepted . '' 
But he will be very much surprised that Mrs. Grant should ask Fanny at all . '' 
There was nothing more to be said , or that could be said to any purpose , till Sir Thomas were present ; but the subject involving , as it did , her own evening 's comfort for the morrow , was so much uppermost in Lady Bertram 's mind , that half an hour afterwards , on his looking in for a minute in his way from his plantation to his dressing room , she called him back again , when he had almost closed the door , with `` Sir Thomas , stop a moment -- I have something to say to you . '' 
Her story began ; and Fanny immediately slipped out of the room ; for to hear herself the subject of any discussion with her uncle , was more than her nerves could bear . 
She was anxious she knew -- more anxious perhaps than she ought to be -- for what was it after all whether she went or staid ? 
-- but if her uncle were to be a great while considering and deciding , and with very grave looks , and those grave looks directed to her , and at last decide against her , she might not be able to appear properly submissive and indifferent . 
Her cause meanwhile went on well . 
Mrs. Grant has asked Fanny to dinner ! '' 
Fanny was perfectly right in giving only a conditional answer . 
She appears to feel as she ought . 
But as I conclude that she must wish to go , since all young people like to be together , I can see no reason why she should be denied the indulgence . '' 
`` But can I do without her , Sir Thomas ? '' 
`` She always makes tea you know , when my sister is not here . '' 
`` Very well , then , Fanny may go , Edmund . '' 
`` Well , Fanny , it is all happily settled , and without the smallest hesitation on your uncle 's side . 
`` Thank you , I am so glad , '' was Fanny 's instinctive reply ; though when she had turned from him and shut the door , she could not help feeling , `` and yet , why should I be glad ? 
In spite of this conviction , however , she was glad . 
Simple as such an engagement might appear in other eyes it had novelty and importance in her 's , for excepting the day at Sotherton , she had scarcely ever dined out before ; and though now going only half a mile and only to three people , still it was dining out , and all the little interests of preparation were enjoyments in themselves . 
She had neither sympathy nor assistance from those who ought to have entered into her feelings and directed her taste ; for Lady Bertram never thought of being useful to any body , and Mrs. Norris , when she came on the morrow , in consequence of an early call and invitation from Sir Thomas , was in a very ill humour , and seemed intent only on lessening her niece 's pleasure , both present and future , as much as possible . 
`` Upon my word , Fanny , you are in high luck to meet with such attention and indulgence ! 
Mrs. Norris had now so ingeniously done away all Mrs. Grant 's part of the favour , that Fanny , who found herself expected to speak , could only say that she was very much obliged to her aunt Bertram for sparing her , and that she was endeavouring to put her aunt 's evening work in such a state as to prevent her being missed . 
Remember that , Fanny . 
`` The nonsense and folly of people 's stepping out of their rank and trying to appear above themselves , makes me think it right to give you a hint , Fanny , now that you are going into company without any of us ; and I do beseech and intreat you not to be putting yourself forward , and talking and giving your opinion as if you were one of your cousins -- as if you were dear Mrs. Rushworth or Julia . 
She rated her own claims to comfort as low even as Mrs. Norris could ; and when Sir Thomas , soon afterwards , just opening the door said , `` Fanny , at what time would you have the carriage come round ? '' 
cried Mrs. Norris , red with anger , `` Fanny can walk . '' 
`` Yes , Sir , '' was Fanny 's humble answer , given with the feelings almost of a criminal towards Mrs. Norris ; and not bearing to remain with her in what might seem a state of triumph , she followed her uncle out of the room , having staid behind him only long enough to hear these words spoken in angry agitation : `` Quite unnecessary ! 
But this could not impose on Fanny . 
`` Now I must look at you , Fanny , '' said Edmund , with the kind smile of an affectionate brother , `` and tell you how I like you ; and as well as I can judge by this light , you look very nicely indeed . 
This is quite a surprise , Fanny . 
There was no occasion , there was no time for Fanny to say how very differently she felt ; but the idea of having such another to observe her , was a great increase of the trepidation with which she performed the very awful ceremony of walking into the drawing-room . 
A very cordial meeting passed between him and Edmund ; and with the exception of Fanny , the pleasure was general ; and even to her , there might be some advantage in his presence , since every addition to the party must rather forward her favourite indulgence of being suffered to sit silent and unattended to . 
With a significant smile , which made Fanny quite hate him , he said , `` So ! 
And then changing his tone again to one of gentle gallantry , and addressing Fanny , he said , `` You were Mr. Rushworth 's best friend . 
Fanny coloured , and said nothing . 
With silent indignation , Fanny repeated to herself , `` Never happier ! 
`` We were unlucky , Miss Price , '' he continued in a lower tone to avoid the possibility of being heard by Edmund , and not at all aware of her feelings , `` we certainly were very unlucky . 
He seemed determined to be answered ; and Fanny , averting her face , said with a firmer tone than usual , `` As far as I am concerned , sir , I would not have delayed his return for a day . 
She had never spoken so much at once to him in her life before , and never so angrily to any one ; and when her speech was over , she trembled and blushed at her own daring . 
He was surprised ; but after a few moments silent consideration of her , replied in a calmer graver tone , and as if the candid result of conviction , `` I believe you are right . 
And then turning the conversation , he would have engaged her on some other subject , but her answers were so shy and reluctant that he could not advance in any . 
thought Fanny . 
No , my plan is to make Fanny Price in love with me . '' 
`` Fanny Price ! 
`` But I can not be satisfied without Fanny Price , without making a small hole in Fanny Price 's heart . 
And without attempting any farther remonstrance , she left Fanny to her fate -- a fate which , had not Fanny 's heart been guarded in a way unsuspected by Miss Crawford , might have been a little harder than she deserved ; for although there doubtless are such unconquerable young ladies of eighteen -LRB- or one should not read about them -RRB- as are never to be persuaded into love against their judgment by all that talent , manner , attention , and flattery can do , I have no inclination to believe Fanny one of them , or to think that with so much tenderness of disposition , and so much taste as belonged to her , she could have escaped heart-whole from the courtship -LRB- though the courtship only of a fortnight -RRB- of such a man as Crawford , in spite of there being some previous ill-opinion of him to be overcome , had not her affection been engaged elsewhere . 
There could be no doubt of his obtaining leave of absence immediately , for he was still only a midshipman ; and as his parents , from living on the spot , must already have seen him and be seeing him perhaps daily , his direct holidays might with justice be instantly given to the sister , who had been his best correspondent through a period of seven years , and the uncle who had done most for his support and advancement ; and accordingly the reply to her reply , fixing a very early day for his arrival , came as soon as possible , and scarcely ten days had passed since Fanny had been in the agitation of her first dinner visit , when she found herself in an agitation of a higher nature -- watching in the hall , in the lobby , on the stairs for the first sound of the carriage which was to bring her a brother . 
It came happily while she was thus waiting , and there being neither ceremony nor fearfulness to delay the moment of meeting , she was with him as he entered the house , and the first minutes of exquisite feeling had no interruption and no witnesses , unless the servants chiefly intent upon opening the proper doors could be called such . 
William and Fanny soon shewed themselves ; and Sir Thomas had the pleasure of receiving in his protg , certainly a very different person from the one he had equipped seven years ago , but a young man of an open , pleasant countenance , and frank , unstudied , but feeling and respectful manners , and such as confirmed him his friend . 
It was long before Fanny could recover from the agitating happiness of such an hour as was formed by the last thirty minutes of expectation and the first of fruition ; it was some time even before her happiness could be said to make her happy , before the disappointment inseparable from the alteration of person had vanished , and she could see in him the same William as before , and talk to him , as her heart had been yearning to do , through many a past year . 
That time , however , did gradually come , forwarded by an affection on his side as warm as her own , and much less incumbered by refinement or self-distrust . 
She was the first object of his love , but it was a love which his stronger spirits , and bolder temper , made it as natural for him to express as to feel . 
Excepting the moments of peculiar delight , which any marked or unlooked-for instance of Edmund 's consideration of her in the last few months had excited , Fanny had never known so much felicity in her life , as in this unchecked , equal fearless intercourse with the brother and friend , who was opening all his heart to her , telling her all his hopes and fears , plans , and solicitudes respecting that long thought of , dearly earned , and justly valued blessing of promotion -- who could give her direct and minute information of the father and mother , brothers and sisters , of whom she very seldom heard -- who was interested in all the comforts and all the little hardships of her home , at Mansfield -- ready to think of every member of that home as she directed , or differing only by a less scrupulous opinion , and more noisy abuse of their aunt Norris -- and with whom -LRB- perhaps the dearest indulgence of the whole -RRB- all the evil and good of their earliest years could be gone over again , and every former united pain and pleasure retraced with the fondest recollection . 
But with William and Fanny Price , it was still a sentiment in all its prime and freshness , wounded by no opposition of interest , cooled by no separate attachment , and feeling the influence of time and absence only in its increase . 
He honoured the warm hearted , blunt fondness of the young sailor , which led him to say , with his hand stretched towards Fanny 's head , `` Do you know , I begin to like that queer fashion already , though when I first heard of such things being done in England I could not believe it , and when Mrs. Brown , and the other women , at the Commissioner 's , at Gibraltar , appeared in the same trim , I thought they were mad ; but Fanny can reconcile me to anything '' -- and saw , with lively admiration , the glow of Fanny 's cheek , the brightness of her eye , the deep interest , the absorbed attention , while her brother was describing any of the imminent hazards , or terrific scenes , which such a period , at sea , must supply . 
Fanny 's attractions increased -- increased two-fold -- for the sensibility which beautified her complexion and illumined her countenance , was an attraction in itself . 
He was no longer in doubt of the capabilities of her heart . 
She had feeling , genuine feeling . 
With spirits , courage , and curiosity up to anything , William expressed an inclination to hunt ; and Crawford could mount him without the slightest inconvenience to himself , and with only some scruples to obviate in Sir Thomas , who knew better than his nephew the value of such a loan , and some alarms to reason away in Fanny . 
-- proceeded from good breeding and good-will alone , and had nothing to do with Mr. Crawford but as being one in an agreeable group ; for it was in the course of that very visit , that he first began to think , that any one in the habit of such idle observations would have thought that Mr. Crawford was the admirer of Fanny Price . 
I know nothing about it , but Fanny must teach me . '' 
Here Fanny interposed however with anxious protestations of her own equal ignorance ; she had never played the game nor seen it played in her life ; and Lady Bertram felt a moment 's indecision again -- but upon every body 's assuring her that nothing could be so easy , that it was the easiest game on the cards , and Henry Crawford 's stepping forward with a most earnest request to be allowed to sit between her ladyship and Miss Price , and teach them both , it was so settled ; and Sir Thomas , Mrs. Norris , and Dr. and Mrs. Grant , being seated at the table of prime intellectual state and dignity , the remaining six under Miss Crawford 's direction were arranged round the other . 
It was a fine arrangement for Henry Crawford , who was close to Fanny , and with his hands full of business , having two persons cards to manage as well as his own -- for though it was impossible for Fanny not to feel herself mistress of the rules of the game in three minutes , he had yet to inspirit her play , sharpen her avarice , and harden her heart , which , especially in any competition with William , was a work of some difficulty ; and as for Lady Bertram , he must continue in charge of all her fame and fortune through the whole evening ; and if quick enough to keep her from looking at her cards when the deal began , must direct her in whatever was to be done with them to the end of it . 
You think with me I hope -- -LRB- turning with a softened voice to Fanny -RRB- -- Have you ever seen the place ? '' 
Fanny gave a quick negative , and tried to hide her interest in the subject by an eager attention to her brother , who was driving as hard a bargain and imposing on her as much as he could ; but Crawford pursued with `` No , no , you must not part with the queen . 
`` And Fanny had much rather it were William 's , '' said Edmund , smiling at her . 
`` Poor Fanny ! 
Fanny 's eyes were turned on Crawford for a moment with an expression more than grave , even reproachful ; but on catching his were instantly withdrawn . 
As soon as a general buz gave him shelter , he added in a low voice directed solely at Fanny , `` I should be sorry to have my powers of planning judged of by the day at Sotherton . 
There was no want of respect in the young man 's address ; and Fanny 's reception of it was so proper and modest , so calm and uninviting that he had nothing to censure in her . 
She said little , assented only here and there , and betrayed no inclination either of appropriating any part of the compliment to herself or of strengthening his views in favour of Northamptonshire . 
Whatever effect Sir Thomas 's little harangue might really produce on Mr. Crawford , it raised some awkward sensations in two of the others , two of his most attentive listeners , Miss Crawford and Fanny . 
William and Fanny were the most detached . 
`` No , Fanny , that I do not . 
`` I begin to think I shall never be a lieutenant , Fanny . 
She was checked by the sight of her uncle much nearer to them than she had any suspicion of , and each found it necessary to talk of something else . 
`` Are you fond of dancing , Fanny ? '' 
-- And turning to his uncle , who was now close to them -- `` Is not Fanny a very good dancer , sir ? '' 
Fanny , in dismay at such an unprecedented question , did not know which way to look , or how to be prepared for the answer . 
Some very grave reproof , or at least the coldest expression of indifference must be coming to distress her brother , and sink her to the ground . 
I have never seen Fanny dance since she was a little girl ; but I trust we shall both think she acquits herself like a gentlewoman when we do see her , which perhaps we may have an opportunity of doing ere long . '' 
But I believe -LRB- seeing Fanny look distressed -RRB- it must be at some other time . 
True enough , he had once seen Fanny dance ; and it was equally true that he would now have answered for her gliding about with quiet , light elegance , and in admirable time , but in fact he could not for the life of him recall what her dancing had been , and rather took it for granted that she had been present than remembered anything about her . 
`` Come , Fanny , Fanny , what are you about ? 
Fanny 's last feeling in the visit was disappointment -- for the shawl which Edmund was quietly taking from the servant to bring and put round her shoulders , was seized by Mr. Crawford 's quicker hand , and she was obliged to be indebted to his more prominent attention . 
William 's desire of seeing Fanny dance , made more than a momentary impression on his uncle . 
He remained steadily inclined to gratify so amiable a feeling -- to gratify anybody else who might wish to see Fanny dance , and to give pleasure to the young people in general ; and having thought the matter over and taken his resolution in quiet independence , the result of it appeared the next morning at breakfast , when after recalling and commending what his nephew had said , he added , `` I do not like , William , that you should leave Northamptonshire without this indulgence . 
Edmund , William , and Fanny , did , in their different ways , look and speak as much grateful pleasure in the promised ball , as Sir Thomas could desire . 
Invitations were sent with dispatch and many a young lady went to bed that night with her head full of happy cares , as well as Fanny . 
-- To her , the cares were sometimes almost beyond the happiness ; for young and inexperienced , with small means of choice and no confidence in her own taste -- the `` how she should be dressed '' was a point of painful solicitude ; and the almost solitary ornament in her possession , a very pretty amber cross which William had brought her from Sicily , was the greatest distress of all , for she had nothing but a bit of ribbon to fasten it to ; and though she had worn it in that manner once , would it be allowable at such a time in the midst of all the rich ornaments which she supposed all the other young ladies would appear in ? 
William had wanted to buy her a gold chain too , but the purchase had been beyond his means , and therefore not to wear the cross might be mortifying him . 
These were anxious considerations ; enough to sober her spirits even under the prospect of a ball given principally for her gratification . 
Thursday was the day of the ball ; and on Wednesday morning , Fanny , still unable to satisfy herself , as to what she ought to wear , determined to seek the counsel of the more enlightened , and apply to Mrs. Grant and her sister , whose acknowledged taste would certainly bear her blameless ; and as Edmund and William were gone to Northampton , and she had reason to think Mr. Crawford likewise out , she walked down to the Parsonage without much fear of wanting an opportunity for private discussion ; and the privacy of such a discussion was a most important part of it to Fanny , being more than half ashamed of her own solicitude . 
Miss Crawford appeared gratified by the application , and after a moment 's thought , urged Fanny 's returning with her in a much more cordial manner than before , and proposed their going up into her room , where they might have a comfortable coze , without disturbing Dr. and Mrs. Grant , who were together in the drawing-room . 
It was just the plan to suit Fanny ; and with a great deal of gratitude on her side for such ready and kind attention , they proceeded in doors and upstairs , and were soon deep in the interesting subject . 
And as she spoke she was undoing a small parcel , which Fanny had observed in her hand when they met . 
Fanny acknowledged her wishes and doubts on this point ; she did not know how either to wear the cross , or to refrain from wearing it . 
She was answered by having a small trinket-box placed before her , and being requested to chuse from among several gold chains and necklaces . 
Such had been the parcel with which Miss Crawford was provided , and such the object of her intended visit ; and in the kindest manner she now urged Fanny 's taking one for the cross and to keep for her sake , saying every thing she could think of to obviate the scruples which were making Fanny start back at first with a look of horror at the proposal . 
`` You see what a collection I have , '' said she , `` more by half than I ever use or think of . 
Fanny still resisted and from her heart . 
Fanny found herself obliged to yield that she might not be accused of pride or indifference , or some other littleness ; and having with modest reluctance given her consent , proceeded to make the selection . 
She looked and looked , longing to know which might be least valuable ; and was determined in her choice at last , by fancying there was one necklace more frequently placed before her eyes than the rest . 
It was of gold prettily worked , and though Fanny would have preferred a longer and a plainer chain as more adapted for her purpose , she hoped in fixing on this , to be chusing what Miss Crawford least wished to keep . 
Fanny had not a word to say against its becomingness , and excepting what remained of her scruples , was exceedingly pleased with an acquisition so very apropos . 
She would rather perhaps have been obliged to some other person . 
Fanny , in great astonishment and confusion , would have returned the present instantly . 
With the deepest blushes Fanny protested against such a thought . 
Fanny dared not make any farther opposition ; and with renewed but less happy thanks accepted the necklace again , for there was an expression in Miss Crawford 's eyes which she could not be satisfied with . 
On reaching home , Fanny went immediately up stairs to deposit this unexpected acquisition , this doubtful good of a necklace , in some favourite box in the east room which held all her smaller treasures ; but on opening the door , what was her surprise to find her cousin Edmund there writing at the table ! 
`` Fanny , '' said he directly , leaving his seat and his pen and meeting her with something in his hand , `` I beg your pardon for being here . 
I hope you will like the chain itself , Fanny . 
And so saying , he was hurrying away , before Fanny , overpowered by a thousand feelings of pain and pleasure , could attempt to speak ; but quickened by one sovereign wish she then called out , `` Oh ! 
`` I can not attempt to thank you , '' she continued in a very agitated manner , `` thanks are out of the question . 
Your goodness in thinking of me in such a way is beyond '' -- `` If this is all you have to say , Fanny , '' smiling and turning away again -- `` No , no , it is not . 
Almost unconsciously she had now undone the parcel he had just put into her hand , and seeing before her in all the niceness of jeweller 's packing , a plain gold chain perfectly simple and neat , she could not help bursting forth again . 
`` My dear Fanny , you feel these things a great deal too much . 
Upon such expressions of affection , Fanny could have lived an hour without saying another word ; but Edmund , after waiting a moment , obliged her to bring down her mind from its heavenly flight by saying , `` But what is it that you want to consult me about ? '' 
It was about the necklace , which she was now most earnestly longing to return , and hoped to obtain his approbation of her doing . 
She gave the history of her recent visit , and now her raptures might well be over , for Edmund was so struck with the circumstance , so delighted with what Miss Crawford had done , so gratified by such a coincidence of conduct between them , that Fanny could not but admit the superior power of one pleasure over his own mind , though it might have its drawback . 
It was some time before she could get his attention to her plan , or any answer to her demand of his opinion ; he was in a reverie of fond reflection , uttering only now and then a few half sentences of praise ; but when he did awake and understand , he was very decided in opposing what she wished . 
No , my dear Fanny , upon no account . 
`` If it had been given to me in the first instance , '' said Fanny , `` I should not have thought of returning it ; but being her brother 's present , is not it fair to suppose that she would rather not part with it , when it is not wanted ? '' 
`` For one night , Fanny , for only one night , if it be a sacrifice -- I am sure you will upon consideration make that sacrifice rather than give pain to one who has been so studious of your comfort . 
He was gone as he spoke ; and Fanny remained to tranquillise herself as she could . 
She was one of his two dearest -- that must support her . 
She had never heard him speak so openly before , and though it told her no more than what she had long perceived , it was a stab ; -- for it told of his own convictions and views . 
Till she had shed many tears over this deception , Fanny could not subdue her agitation ; and the dejection which followed could only be relieved by the influence of fervent prayers for his happiness . 
It was her intention , as she felt it to be her duty , to try to overcome all that was excessive , all that bordered on selfishness in her affection for Edmund . 
To call or to fancy it a loss , a disappointment , would be a presumption ; for which she had not words strong enough to satisfy her own humility . 
She had all the heroism of principle , and was determined to do her duty ; but having also many of the feelings of youth and nature , let her not be much wondered at if , after making all these good resolutions on the side of self-government , she seized the scrap of paper on which Edmund had begun writing to her , as a treasure beyond all her hopes , and reading with the tenderest emotion these words , `` My very dear Fanny , you must do me the favour to accept '' -- locked it up with the chain , as the dearest part of the gift . 
This specimen , written in haste as it was , had not a fault ; and there was a felicity in the flow of the first four words , in the arrangement of `` My very dear Fanny , '' which she could have looked at for ever . 
Thursday , predestined to hope and enjoyment , came ; and opened with more kindness to Fanny than such self-willed , unmanageable days often volunteer , for soon after breakfast a very friendly note was brought from Mr. Crawford to William stating , that as he found himself obliged to go to London on the morrow for a few days , he could not help trying to procure a companion ; and therefore hoped that if William could make up his mind to leave Mansfield half a day earlier than had been proposed , he would accept a place in his carriage . 
The proposal was a very pleasant one to William himself , who enjoyed the idea of travelling post with four horses and such a good humoured agreeable friend ; and in likening it to going up with dispatches , was saying at once every thing in favour of its happiness and dignity which his imagination could suggest ; and Fanny from a different motive was exceedingly pleased : for the original plan was that William should go up by the mail from Northampton the following night which would not have allowed him an hour 's rest before he must have got into a Portsmouth coach ; and though this offer of Mr. Crawford 's would rob her of many hours of his company , she was too happy in having William spared from the fatigue of such a journey , to think of anything else . 
Fanny 's spirits lived on it half the morning , deriving some accession of pleasure from its writer being himself to go away . 
As for the ball so near at hand , she had too many agitations and fears to have half the enjoyment in anticipation which she ought to have had , or must have been supposed to have , by the many young ladies looking forward to the same event in situations more at ease , but under circumstances of less novelty , less interest , less peculiar gratification than would be attributed to her . 
William , determined to make this last day a day of thorough enjoyment , was out snipe shooting ; Edmund , she had too much reason to suppose was at the Parsonage ; and left alone to bear the worrying of Mrs. Norris , who was cross because the house-keeper would have her own way with the supper , and whom she could not avoid though the house-keeper might , Fanny was worn down at last to think every thing an evil belonging to the ball , and when sent off with a parting worry to dress , moved as languidly towards her own room , and felt as incapable of happiness as if she had been allowed no share in it . 
As she walked slowly up stairs she thought of yesterday ; it had been about the same hour that she had returned from the Parsonage , and found Edmund in the east room . 
said she to herself in a fond indulgence of fancy . 
`` Fanny , '' said a voice at that moment near her . 
Starting and looking up she saw across the lobby she had just reached Edmund himself , standing at the head of a different staircase . 
He come towards her . 
`` You look tired and fagged , Fanny . 
Fanny , not liking to complain , found it easiest to make no answer ; and though he looked at her with his usual kindness , she believed he had soon ceased to think of her countenance . 
He did not appear in spirits ; something unconnected with her was probably amiss . 
`` You may guess my errand there , Fanny . '' 
And he looked so conscious that Fanny could think but of one errand , which turned her too sick for speech . 
-- `` I wished to engage Miss Crawford for the two first dances , '' was the explanation that followed , and brought Fanny to life again , enabling her as she found she was expected to speak , to utter something like an inquiry as to the result . 
Fanny struggled for speech and said , `` I am very sorry that anything has occurred to distress you . 
But Fanny , '' -- stopping her by taking her hand , and speaking low and seriously , `` you know what all this means . 
`` The effect of education , '' said Fanny gently . 
-- for sometimes , Fanny , I own to you , it does appear more than manner ; it appears as if the mind itself was tainted . '' 
Fanny imagined this to be an appeal to her judgment , and therefore after a moment 's consideration , said , `` If you only want me as a listener , cousin , I will be as useful as I can ; but I am not qualified for an adviser . 
`` You are right , Fanny , to protest against such an office , but you need not be afraid . 
The time may come -- '' The colour rushed into her cheeks as she spoke . 
`` Dearest Fanny ! '' 
cried Edmund , pressing her hand to his lips , with almost as much warmth as if it had been Miss Crawford 's , `` you are all considerate thought ! 
You are the only being upon earth , to whom I should say what I have said ; but you have always known my opinion of her ; you can bear me witness , Fanny , that I have never been blinded . 
How many a time have we talked over her little errors ! 
I have almost given up every serious idea of her ; but I must be a blockhead indeed if , whatever befell me , I could think of your kindness and sympathy without the sincerest gratitude . '' 
He had said enough to give Fanny some happier feelings than she had lately known , and with a brighter look , she answered , `` Yes , cousin , I am convinced that you would be incapable of anything else , though perhaps some might not . 
For Fanny 's present comfort it was concluded perhaps at the happiest moment ; had he been able to talk another five minutes , there is no saying that he might not have talked away all Miss Crawford 's faults and his own despondence . 
The necklace really looked very well ; and Fanny left her room at last , comfortably satisfied with herself and all about her . 
Her aunt Bertram had recollected her on this occasion , with an unusual degree of wakefulness . 
It had really occurred to her , unprompted , that Fanny , preparing for a ball , might be glad of better help than the upper housemaid 's , and when dressed herself , she actually sent her own woman to assist her ; too late of course to be of any use . 
Mrs. Chapman had just reached the attic floor , when Miss Price came out of her room completely dressed , and only civilities were necessary -- but Fanny felt her aunt 's attention almost as much as Lady Bertram or Mrs. Chapman could do themselves . 
Her uncle and both her aunts were in the drawing-room when Fanny went down . 
To the former she was an interesting object , and he saw with pleasure the general elegance of her appearance and her being in remarkably good looks . 
The neatness and propriety of her dress was all that he would allow himself to commend in her presence , but upon her leaving the room again soon afterwards he spoke of her beauty with very decided praise . 
`` Yes , '' said Lady Bertram , `` she looks very well . 
I sent Chapman to her . '' 
Oh yes , '' cried Mrs. Norris , `` she has good reason to look well with all her advantages : brought up in this family as she has been with all the benefit of her cousins ' manners before her . 
Only think , my dear Sir Thomas , what extraordinary advantages you and I have been the means of giving her . 
The very gown you have been taking notice of , is your own generous present to her when dear Mrs. Rushworth married . 
Fanny saw that she was approved ; and the consciousness of looking well , made her look still better . 
From a variety of causes she was happy , and she was soon made still happier ; for in following her aunts out of the room , Edmund , who was holding open the door , said as she passed him , `` You must dance with me , Fanny ; you must keep two dances for me ; any two that you like , except the first . '' 
She had nothing more to wish for . 
She had hardly ever been in a state so nearly approaching high spirits in her life . 
Her cousins ' former gaiety on the day of a ball was no longer surprising to her ; she felt it to be indeed very charming , and was actually practising her steps about the drawing-room as long as she could be safe from the notice of her aunt Norris , who was entirely taken up at first in fresh arranging and injuring the noble fire which the butler had prepared . 
Half an hour followed , that would have been at least languid under any other circumstances , but Fanny 's happiness still prevailed . 
It was but to think of her conversation with Edmund ; and what was the restlessness of Mrs. Norris ? 
Fanny felt that there must be a struggle in Edmund 's cheerfulness , but it was delightful to see the effort so successfully made . 
When the carriages were really heard , when the guests began really to assemble , her own gaiety of heart was much subdued ; the sight of so many strangers threw her back into herself , and besides the gravity and formality of the first great circle , which the manners of neither Sir Thomas nor Lady Bertram were of a kind to do away , she found herself occasionally called on to endure something worse . 
Fanny felt the advantage , and drawing back from the toils of civility would have been again most happy , could she have kept her eyes from wandering between Edmund and Mary Crawford . 
She looked all loveliness -- and what might not be the end of it ? 
Her own musings were brought to an end on perceiving Mr. Crawford before her , and her thoughts were put into another channel by his engaging her almost instantly for the two first dances . 
Her happiness on this occasion was very much a-la-mortal , finely chequered . 
To be secure of a partner at first , was a most essential good -- for the moment of beginning was now growing seriously near , and she so little understood her own claims as to think , that if Mr. Crawford had not asked her , she must have been the last to be sought after , and should have received a partner only through a series of inquiry , and bustle , and interference which would have been terrible ; but at the same time there was a pointedness in his manner of asking her , which she did not like , and she saw his eye glancing for a moment at her necklace -- with a smile -- she thought there was a smile -- which made her blush and feel wretched . 
And though there was no second glance to disturb her , though his object seemed then to be only quietly agreeable , she could not get the better of her embarrassment , heightened as it was by the idea of his perceiving it , and had no composure till he turned away to some one else . 
Then she could gradually rise up to the genuine satisfaction of having a partner , a voluntary partner secured against the dancing began . 
When the company were moving into the ball-room she found herself for the first time near Miss Crawford , whose eyes and smiles were immediately and more unequivocally directed as her brother 's had been , and who was beginning to speak on the subject , when Fanny , anxious to get the story over , hastened to give the explanation of the second necklace -- the real chain . 
Miss Crawford listened ; and all her intended compliments and insinuations to Fanny were forgotten ; she felt only one thing ; and her eyes , bright as they had been before , shewing they could yet be brighter , she exclaimed with eager pleasure , `` Did he ? 
Fanny 's heart sunk , but there was no leisure for thinking long even of Miss Crawford 's feelings . 
Mr. Crawford was not far off ; Sir Thomas brought him to her , saying something which discovered to Fanny , that she was to lead the way and open the ball ; an idea that had never occurred to her before . 
Whenever she had thought on the minuti of the evening , it had been as a matter of course that Edmund would begin with Miss Crawford , and the impression was so strong , that though her uncle spoke the contrary , she could not help an exclamation of surprise , a hint of her unfitness , an entreaty even to be excused . 
It was rather honour then happiness to Fanny , for the first dance at least ; her partner was in excellent spirits and tried to impart them to her , but she was a great deal too much frightened to have any enjoyment , till she could suppose herself no longer looked at . 
Young , pretty , and gentle , however , she had no awkwardnesses that were not as good as graces , and there were few persons present that were not disposed to praise her . 
She was attractive , she was modest , she was Sir Thomas 's niece , and she was soon said to be admired by Mr. Crawford . 
It was enough to give her general favour . 
Sir Thomas himself was watching her progress down the dance with much complacency ; he was proud of his niece , and without attributing all her personal beauty , as Mrs. Norris seemed to do , to her transplantation to Mansfield , he was pleased with himself for having supplied every thing else ; -- education and manners she owed to him . 
Miss Crawford saw much of Sir Thomas 's thoughts as he stood , and having in spite of all his wrongs towards her , a generally prevailing desire of recommending herself to him , took an opportunity of stepping aside to say something agreeable of Fanny . 
`` Yes , she does look very well , '' was Lady Bertram 's placid reply . 
`` Chapman helped her dress . 
I sent Chapman to her . '' 
Not but that she was really pleased to have Fanny admired ; but she was so much more struck with her own kindness in sending Chapman to her , that she could not get it out of her head . 
Miss Crawford knew Mrs. Norris too well to think of gratifying her by commendation of Fanny ; to her , it was as the occasion offered . 
Miss Crawford blundered most towards Fanny herself , in her intentions to please . 
She meant to be giving her little heart a happy flutter , and filling her with sensations of delightful self-consequence , and misinterpreting Fanny 's blushes , still thought she must be doing so -- when she went to her after the two first dances and said , with a significant look , `` perhaps you can tell me why my brother goes to town to-morrow . 
Fanny protested her ignorance as steadily as her embarrassment allowed . 
Fanny was confused , but it was the confusion of discontent ; while Miss Crawford wondered she did not smile , and thought her over-anxious , or thought her odd , or thought her anything rather than insensible of pleasure in Henry 's attentions . 
Fanny had a good deal of enjoyment in the course of the evening -- but Henry 's attentions had very little to do with it . 
She would much rather not have been asked by him again so very soon , and she wished she had not been obliged to suspect that his previous inquiries of Mrs. Norris , about the supper-hour , were all for the sake of securing her at that part of the evening . 
But with you , Fanny , there may be peace . 
Fanny would hardly even speak her agreement . 
Fanny , not able to refrain entirely from observing them , had seen enough to be tolerably satisfied . 
When her two dances with him were over , her inclination and strength for more were pretty well at an end ; and Sir Thomas having seen her rather walk than dance down the shortening set , breathless and with her hand at her side , gave his orders for her sitting down entirely . 
`` Poor Fanny ! '' 
cried William , coming for a moment to visit her and working away his partner 's fan as if for life . 
`` Well then , Fanny , you shall not get up to-morrow before I go . 
Did she think of being up before you set off ? '' 
yes , sir , '' cried Fanny , rising eagerly from her seat to be nearer her uncle , `` I must get up and breakfast with him . 
Fanny was too urgent , however , and had too many tears in her eyes for denial ; and it ended in a gracious , `` Well , well , '' which was permission . 
And in a lower tone to Fanny , `` I shall have only a desolate house to hurry from . 
Mr. Crawford was in love with Fanny . 
After seeing William to the last moment , Fanny walked back into the breakfast-room with a very saddened heart to grieve over the melancholy change ; and there her uncle kindly left her to cry in peace , conceiving perhaps that the deserted chair of each young man might exercise her tender enthusiasm , and that the remaining cold pork bones and mustard in William 's plate , might but divide her feelings with the broken egg-shells in Mr. Crawford 's . 
She sat and cried con amore as her uncle intended , but it was con amore fraternal and no other . 
William was gone , and she now felt as if she had wasted half his visit in idle cares and selfish solicitudes unconnected with him . 
Fanny 's disposition was such that she could never even think of her aunt Norris in the meagreness and cheerlessness of her own small house , without reproaching herself for some little want of attention to her when they had been last together ; much less could her feelings acquit her of having done and said and thought every thing by William , that was due to him for a whole fortnight . 
Nothing remained of last night but remembrances , which she had nobody to share in . 
She talked to her aunt Bertram -- she must talk to somebody of the ball , but her aunt had seen so little of what passed , and had so little curiosity that it was heavy work . 
`` She could not recollect what it was that she had heard about one of the Miss Maddox ' , or what it was that Lady Prescott had noticed in Fanny ; she was not sure whether Colonel Harrison had been talking of Mr. Crawford or of William when he said he was the finest young man in the room ; somebody had whispered something to her , she had forgot to ask Sir Thomas what it could be . '' 
Fanny , you must do something to keep me awake . 
The cards were brought and Fanny played at cribbage with her aunt till bed-time ; and as Sir Thomas was reading to himself , no sounds were heard in the room for the next two hours beyond the reckonings of the game -- And that makes thirty-one , four in hand and eight in crib . 
Fanny thought and thought again of the difference which twenty-four hours had made in that room , and all that part of the house . 
A good night 's rest improved her spirits . 
She could think of William the next day more cheerfully , and as the morning afforded her an opportunity of talking over Thursday night with Mrs. Grant and Miss Crawford , in a very handsome style , with all the heightenings of imagination and all the laughs of playfulness which are so essential to the shade of a departed ball , she could afterwards bring her mind without much effort into its everyday state , and easily conform to the tranquillity of the present quiet week . 
`` We miss our two young men , '' was Sir Thomas 's observation on both the first and second day , as they formed their very reduced circle after dinner ; and in consideration of Fanny 's swimming eyes , nothing more was said on the first day than to drink their good health ; but on the second it led to something farther . 
Lady Bertram agreed to it all with a calm `` Yes '' -- and at the end of a quarter of an hour 's silent consideration , spontaneously observed , `` Sir Thomas , I have been thinking -- and I am very glad we took Fanny as we did , for now the others are away we feel the good of it . '' 
We shew Fanny what a good girl we think her by praising her to her face -- she is now a very valuable companion . 
What was tranquillity and comfort to Fanny was tediousness and vexation to Mary . 
To Fanny 's mind , Edmund 's absence was really in its cause and its tendency a relief . 
It became absolutely necessary for her to get to Fanny and try to learn something more . 
The first half hour was lost , for Fanny and Lady Bertram were together , and unless she had Fanny to herself she could hope for nothing . 
`` I do not know , '' said Fanny hesitatingly . 
`` I know nothing of the Miss Owens , '' said Fanny calmly . 
Fanny felt obliged to speak . 
`` You can not doubt your being missed by many , '' said she . 
Now Fanny could not bring herself to speak , and Miss Crawford was disappointed ; for she had hoped to hear some pleasant assurance of her power , from one who she thought must know ; and her spirits were clouded again . 
You do n't speak , Fanny -- Miss Price -- you do n't speak . 
`` No , '' said Fanny stoutly , `` I do not expect it all . '' 
`` No , I do not , '' said Fanny softly -- hoping she did not err either in the belief or the acknowledgment of it . 
Her companion looked at her keenly ; and gathering greater spirit from the blush soon produced from such a look , only said , `` He is best off as he is , '' and turned the subject . 
he had only to say that he had been sitting with Lady Bertram and Fanny . 
But this was only the beginning of her surprise . 
`` Yes , Mary , '' said he , drawing her arm within his , and walking along the sweep as if not knowing where he was -- I could not get away sooner -- Fanny looked so lovely ! 
No -- You must be aware that I am quite determined to marry Fanny Price . '' 
`` When Fanny is known to him , '' continued Henry , `` he will doat on her . 
She is exactly the woman to do away every prejudice of such a man as the Admiral , for she is exactly such a woman as he thinks does not exist in the world . 
Fanny Price -- Wonderful -- quite wonderful ! 
As soon as her eagerness could rest in silence , he was as happy to tell as she could be to listen , and a conversation followed almost as deeply interesting to her as to himself , though he had in fact nothing to relate but his own sensations , nothing to dwell on but Fanny 's charms . 
-- Fanny 's beauty of face and figure , Fanny 's graces of manner and goodness of heart were the exhaustless theme . 
The gentleness , modesty , and sweetness of her character were warmly expatiated on , that sweetness which makes so essential a part of every woman 's worth in the judgment of man , that though he sometimes loves where it is not , he can never believe it absent . 
Well might his sister , believing as she really did that his opinion of Fanny Price was scarcely beyond her merits , rejoice in her prospects . 
`` The more I think of it , '' she cried , `` the more am I convinced that you are doing quite right , and though I should never have selected Fanny Price as the girl most likely to attach you , I am now persuaded she is the very one to make you happy . 
`` You must give us more than half your time , '' said he ; `` I can not admit Mrs. Grant to have an equal claim with Fanny and myself , for we shall both have a right in you . 
Fanny will be so truly your sister ! '' 
You must not prejudice Fanny against him . 
`` Henry , I think so highly of Fanny Price , that if I could suppose the next Mrs. Crawford would have half the reason which my poor ill used aunt had to abhor the very name , I would prevent the marriage , if possible ; but I know you , I know that a wife you loved would be the happiest of women , and that even when you ceased to love , she would yet find in you the liberality and good-breeding of a gentleman . '' 
The impossibility of not doing every thing in the world to make Fanny Price happy , or of ceasing to love Fanny Price , was of course the groundwork of his eloquent answer . 
Yes , Mary , my Fanny will feel a difference indeed , a daily , hourly difference , in the behaviour of every being who approaches her ; and it will be the completion of my happiness to know that I am the doer of it , that I am the person to give the consequence so justly her due . 
Now she is dependent , helpless , friendless , neglected , forgotten . '' 
Her cousin Edmund never forgets her . '' 
`` Edmund -- True , I believe he is -LRB- generally speaking -RRB- kind to her ; and so is Sir Thomas in his way , but it is the way of a rich , superior , longworded , arbitrary uncle . 
What can Sir Thomas and Edmund together do , what do they do for her happiness , comfort , honour , and dignity in the world to what I shall do ? '' 
Henry , overjoyed to have her go , bowed and watched her off , and without losing another moment , turned instantly to Fanny , and taking out some letters said , with a most animated look , `` I must acknowledge myself infinitely obliged to any creature who gives me such an opportunity of seeing you alone : I have been wishing it more than you can have any idea . 
Fanny could not speak , but he did not want her to speak . 
To see the expression of her eyes , the change of her complexion , the progress of her feelings , their doubt , confusion , and felicity , was enough . 
She took the letters as he gave them . 
cried Fanny . 
He had communicated it to no creature ; he had not breathed a syllable of it even to Mary ; while uncertain of the issue , he could not have borne any participation of his feelings , but this had been his business ; and he spoke with such a glow of what his solicitude had been , and used such strong expressions , was so abounding in the deepest interest , in twofold motives , in views and wishes more than could be told , that Fanny could not have remained insensible of his drift , had she been able to attend ; but her heart was so full and her senses still so astonished , that she could listen but imperfectly even to what he told her of William , and saying only when he paused , `` How kind ! 
she jumped up and moved in haste towards the door , crying out , `` I will go to my uncle . 
He was after her immediately . 
`` She must not go , she must allow him five minutes longer , '' and he took her hand and led her back to her seat , and was in the middle of his farther explanation , before she had suspected for what she was detained . 
When she did understand it , however , and found herself expected to believe that she had created sensations which his heart had never known before , and that everything he had done for William , was to be placed to the account of his excessive and unequalled attachment to her , she was exceedingly distressed , and for some moments unable to speak . 
She considered it all as nonsense , as mere trifling and gallantry , which meant only to deceive for the hour ; she could not but feel that it was treating her improperly and unworthily , and in such a way as she had not deserved ; but it was like himself , and entirely of a piece with what she had seen before ; and she would not allow herself to shew half the displeasure she felt , because he had been conferring an obligation , which no want of delicacy on his part could make a trifle to her . 
While her heart was still bounding with joy and gratitude on William 's behalf , she could not be severely resentful of anything that injured only herself ; and after having twice drawn back her hand , and twice attempted in vain to turn away from him , she got up and said only , with much agitation , `` Do n't , Mr. Crawford , pray do n't . 
But he was still talking on , describing his affection , soliciting a return , and , finally , in words so plain as to bear but one meaning even to her , offering himself , hand , fortune , everything to her acceptance . 
Her astonishment and confusion increased ; and though still not knowing how to suppose him serious , she could hardly stand . 
`` No , no , no , '' she cried , hiding her face . 
She had burst away from him , and at that moment Sir Thomas was heard speaking to a servant in his way towards the room they were in . 
It was no time for further assurances or entreaty , though to part with her at a moment when her modesty alone seemed to his sanguine and pre-assured mind to stand in the way of the happiness he sought , was a cruel necessity . 
-- She rushed out at an opposite door from the one her uncle was approaching , and was walking up and down the east room in the utmost confusion of contrary feelings , before Sir Thomas 's politeness and apologies were over , or he had reached the beginning of the joyful intelligence , which his visitor came to communicate . 
She was feeling , thinking , trembling about everything ; -- agitated , happy , miserable , infinitely obliged , absolutely angry . 
He had previously made her the happiest of human beings , and now he had insulted -- she knew not what to say -- how to class or how to regard it . 
She would not have him be serious , and yet what could excuse the use of such words and offers , if they meant but to trifle ? 
She would think of it for ever and forget all the rest . 
Mr. Crawford would certainly never address her so again : he must have seen how unwelcome it was to her ; and in that case , how gratefully she could esteem him for his friendship to William ! 
She would not stir further from the east-room than the head of the great staircase , till she had satisfied herself of Mr. Crawford 's having left the house ; but when convinced of his being gone she was eager to go down and be with her uncle , and have all the happiness of his joy as well as her own , and all the benefit of his information or his conjectures as to what would now be William 's destination . 
Sir Thomas was as joyful as she could desire , and very kind and communicative ; and she had so comfortable a talk with him about William as to make her feel as if nothing had occurred to vex her , till she found towards the close that Mr. Crawford was engaged to return and dine there that very day . 
This was a most unwelcome hearing , for though he might think nothing of what had passed , it would be quite distressing to her to see him again so soon . 
She tried to get the better of it , tried very hard as the dinner hour approached , to feel and appear as usual ; but it was quite impossible for her not to look most shy and uncomfortable when their visitor entered the room . 
She could not have supposed it in the power of any concurrence of circumstances to give her so many painful sensations on the first day of hearing of William 's promotion . 
Mr. Crawford was not only in the room ; he was soon close to her . 
Fanny could not look at him , but there was no consciousness of past folly in his voice . 
She opened her note immediately , glad to have anything to do , and happy , as she read it , to feel that the fidgettings of her aunt Norris , who was also to dine there , screened her a little from view . 
`` My Dear Fanny , for so I may now always call you , to the infinite relief of a tongue that has been stumbling at Miss Price for at least the last six weeks -- I can not let my brother go without sending you a few lines of general congratulation , and giving my most joyful consent and approval . 
-- Go on , my dear Fanny , and without fear ; there can be no difficulties worth naming . 
These were not expressions to do Fanny any good , for though she read in too much haste and confusion to form the clearest judgment of Miss Crawford 's meaning , it was evident that she meant to compliment her on her brother 's attachment and even to appear to believe it serious . 
Fanny , William must not forget my shawl , if he goes to the East Indies ; and I shall give him a commission for anything else that is worth having . 
I think I will have two shawls , Fanny . '' 
Fanny , meanwhile , speaking only when she could not help it , was very earnestly trying to understand what Mr. and Miss Crawford were at . 
Fanny was ashamed of her own doubts . 
everything might be possible rather than serious attachment or serious approbation of it towards her . 
She had quite convinced herself of this before Sir Thomas and Mr. Crawford joined them . 
The difficulty was in maintaining the conviction quite so absolutely after Mr. Crawford was in the room ; for once or twice a look seemed forced on her which she did not know how to class among the common meaning ; in any other man at least , she would have said that it meant something very earnest , very pointed . 
But she still tried to believe it no more than what he might often have expressed towards her cousins and fifty other women . 
She thought he was wishing to speak to her unheard by the rest . 
She fancied he was trying for it the whole evening at intervals , whenever Sir Thomas was out of the room , or at all engaged with Mrs. Norris , and she carefully refused him every opportunity . 
At last -- it seemed an at last to Fanny 's nervousness , though not remarkably late , he began to talk of going away ; but the comfort of the sound was impaired by his turning to her the next moment , and saying , `` Have you nothing to send to Mary ? 
yes , certainly , '' cried Fanny , rising in haste , the haste of embarrassment and of wanting to get away -- `` I will write directly . '' 
She went accordingly to the table , where she was in the habit of writing for her aunt , and prepared her materials without knowing what in the world to say ! 
She had read Miss Crawford 's note only once ; and how to reply to anything so imperfectly understood was most distressing . 
Quite unpractised in such sort of note-writing , had there been time for scruples and fears as to style , she would have felt them in abundance ; but something must be instantly written , and with only one decided feeling , that of wishing not to appear to think anything really intended , she wrote thus , in great trembling both of spirits and hand : `` I Am very much obliged to you , my dear Miss Crawford , for your kind congratulations , as far as they relate to my dearest William . 
With thanks for the honour of your note , I remain , dear Miss Crawford , & c. & c. '' The conclusion was scarcely intelligible from increasing fright , for she found that Mr. Crawford , under pretence of receiving the note , was coming towards her . 
`` You can not think I mean to hurry you , '' said he in an under voice , perceiving the amazing trepidation with which she made up the note ; `` you can not think I have any such object . 
The note was held out and must be taken ; and as she instantly and with averted eyes walked towards the fireplace , where sat the others , he had nothing to do but to go in good earnest . 
Fanny thought she had never known a day of greater agitation , both of pain and pleasure ; but happily the pleasure was not of a sort to die with the day -- for every day would restore the knowledge of William 's advancement , whereas the pain she hoped would return no more . 
She had no doubt that her note must appear excessively ill-written , that the language would disgrace a child , for her distress had allowed no arrangement ; but at least it would assure them both of her being neither imposed on , nor gratified by Mr. Crawford 's attentions . 
Fanny had by no means forgotten Mr. Crawford , when she awoke the next morning ; but she remembered the purport of her note , and was not less sanguine , as to its effect , than she had been the night before . 
-- That was what she most earnestly desired ; -- go and take his sister with him , as he was to do , and as he returned to Mansfield on purpose to do . 
And why it was not done already , she could not devise , for Miss Crawford certainly wanted no delay . 
-- Fanny had hoped , in the course of his yesterday 's visit , to hear the day named ; but he had only spoken of their journey as what would take place ere long . 
Having so satisfactorily settled the conviction her note would convey , she could not but be astonished to see Mr. Crawford , as she accidentally did , coming up to the house again , and at an hour as early as the day before . 
-- His coming might have nothing to do with her , but she must avoid seeing him if possible ; and being then in her way up stairs , she resolved there to remain , during the whole of his visit , unless actually sent for ; and as Mrs. Norris was still in the house , there seemed little danger of her being wanted . 
Fanny would rather have been silent , but being obliged to speak , she could not forbear , in justice to the aunt she loved best , from saying something in which the words , `` my aunt Norris '' were distinguishable . 
-- I am aware that there has been sometimes , in some points , a misplaced distinction ; but I think too well of you , Fanny , to suppose you will ever harbour resentment on that account . 
Fanny obeyed , with eyes cast down and colour rising . 
Fanny 's colour grew deeper and deeper ; and her uncle perceiving that she was embarrassed to a degree that made either speaking or looking up quite impossible , turned away his own eyes , and without any farther pause , proceeded in his account of Mr. Crawford 's visit . 
Mr. Crawford 's business had been to declare himself the lover of Fanny , make decided proposals for her , and intreat the sanction of the uncle , who seemed to stand in the place of her parents ; and he had done it all so well , so openly , so liberally , so properly , that Sir Thomas , feeling , moreover , his own replies , and his own remarks to have been very much to the purpose -- was exceedingly happy to give the particulars of their conversation -- and , little aware of what was passing in his niece 's mind , conceived that by such details he must be gratifying her far more than himself . 
He talked therefore for several minutes without Fanny 's daring to interrupt him . 
-- She had hardly even attained the wish to do it . 
Her mind was in too much confusion . 
She had changed her position , and with her eyes fixed intently on one of the windows , was listening to her uncle , in the utmost perturbation and dismay . 
-- For a moment he ceased , but she had barely become conscious of it , when , rising from his chair , he said , `` And now , Fanny , having performed one part of my commission , and shewn you every thing placed on a basis the most assured and satisfactory , I may execute the remainder by prevailing on you to accompany me down stairs , where -- though I can not but presume on having been no unacceptable companion myself , I must submit to your finding one still better worth listening to . 
There was a look , a start , an exclamation , on hearing this , which astonished Sir Thomas ; but what was his increase of astonishment on hearing her exclaim -- `` Oh ! 
`` You are mistaken , Sir , '' -- cried Fanny , forced by the anxiety of the moment even to tell her Uncle that he was wrong -- `` You are quite mistaken . 
She could say no more ; her breath was almost gone . 
`` Yes , '' said Fanny , in a faint voice , and looking down with fresh shame ; and she did feel almost ashamed of herself , after such a picture as her uncle had drawn , for not liking Mr. Crawford . 
I am half inclined to think , Fanny , that you do not quite know your own feelings . '' 
Sir Thomas looked at her with deeper surprise . 
Young as you are , and having seen scarcely any one , it is hardly possible that your affections -- '' He paused and eyed her fixedly . 
He saw her lips formed into a no , though the sound was inarticulate , but her face was like scarlet . 
Here was a glance at Fanny . 
But the removal of his alarm did his niece no service ; as her unaccountableness was confirmed , his displeasure increased ; and getting up and walking about the room , with a frown , which Fanny could picture to herself , though she dared not lift up her eyes , he shortly afterwards , and in a voice of authority , said , `` Have you any reason , child , to think ill of Mr. Crawford 's temper ? '' 
She longed to add , `` but of his principles I have ; '' but her heart sunk under the appalling prospect of discussion , explanation , and probably nonconviction . 
Her ill opinion of him was founded chiefly on observations , which , for her cousin 's sake , she could scarcely dare mention to their father . 
For I had , Fanny , as I think my behaviour must have shewn , formed a very favourable opinion of you from the period of my return to England . 
Here is a young man of sense , of character , of temper , of manners , and of fortune , exceedingly attached to you , and seeking your hand in the most handsome and disinterested way ; and let me tell you , Fanny , that you may live eighteen years longer in the world , without being addressed by a man of half Mr. Crawford 's estate , or a tenth part of his merits . 
But Fanny , if your heart can acquit you of ingratitude -- '' He ceased . 
Fanny was by this time crying so bitterly , that angry as he was , he would not press that article farther . 
Her Heart was almost broke by such a picture of what she appeared to him ; by such accusations , so heavy , so multiplied , so rising in dreadful gradation ! 
He thought her all this . 
She had deceived his expectations ; she had lost his good opinion . 
What was to become of her ? 
`` I am very sorry , '' said she inarticulately through her tears , `` I am very sorry indeed . '' 
`` If it were possible for me to do otherwise , `` said she with another strong effort , `` but I am so perfectly convinced that I could never make him happy , and that I should be miserable myself . '' 
He knew her to be very timid , and exceedingly nervous ; and thought it not improbable that her mind might be in such a state , as a little time , a little pressing , a little patience , and a little impatience , a judicious mixture of all on the lover 's side , might work their usual effect on . 
But Fanny shewed such reluctance , such misery , at the idea of going down to him , that Sir Thomas , after a little consideration , judged it better to indulge her . 
Here Fanny , who had looked up , looked down again . 
`` Of course , '' continued her uncle , `` it can not be supposed but that he should request to speak with you alone , be it only for five minutes ; a request too natural , a claim too just to be denied . 
And , Fanny , -LRB- turning back again for a moment -RRB- I shall make no mention below of what has passed ; I shall not even tell your aunt Bertram . 
This was an order to be most joyfully obeyed ; this was an act of kindness which Fanny felt at her heart . 
To be spared from her aunt Norris 's interminable reproaches ! 
-- he left her in a glow of gratitude . 
She walked out directly as her uncle recommended , and followed his advice throughout , as far as she could ; did check her tears , did earnestly try to compose her spirits , and strengthen her mind . 
She wished to prove to him that she did desire his comfort , and sought to regain his favour ; and he had given her another strong motive for exertion , in keeping the whole affair from the knowledge of her aunts . 
Not to excite suspicion by her look or manner was now an object worth attaining ; and she felt equal to almost any thing that might save her from her aunt Norris . 
She was struck , quite struck , when on returning from her walk , and going into the east room again , the first thing which caught her eye was a fire lighted and burning . 
it seemed too much ; just at that time to be giving her such an indulgence , was exciting even painful gratitude . 
She wondered that Sir Thomas could have leisure to think of such a trifle again ; but she soon found , from the voluntary information of the housemaid , who came in to attend it , that so it was to be every day . 
said she in soliloquy ; `` Heaven defend me from being ungrateful ! '' 
She saw nothing more of her uncle , nor of her aunt Norris , till they met at dinner . 
`` I recommended the shrubbery to Fanny as the dryest place , '' said Sir Thomas . 
Fanny would have had quite as good a walk there I assure you ; with the advantage of being of some use , and obliging her aunt : it is all her fault . 
If she would but have let us know she was going out -- but there is a something about Fanny , I have often observed it before , -- she likes to go her own way to work ; she does not like to be dictated to ; she takes her own independent walk whenever she can ; she certainly has a little spirit of secrecy , and independence , and nonsense , about her , which I would advise her to get the better of . '' 
As a general reflection on Fanny , Sir Thomas thought nothing could be more unjust , though he had been so lately expressing the same sentiments himself , and he tried to turn the conversation ; tried repeatedly before he could succeed ; for Mrs. Norris had not discernment enough to perceive , either now , or at any other time , to what degree he thought well of his niece , or how very far he was from wishing to have his own children 's merits set off by the depreciation of her 's . 
She was talking at Fanny , and resenting this private walk half through the dinner . 
It was over , however , at last ; and the evening set in with more composure to Fanny , and more cheerfulness of spirits than she could have hoped for after so stormy a morning ; but she trusted , in the first place , that she had done right , that her judgment had not misled her ; for the purity of her intententions she could answer ; and she was willing to hope , secondly , that her uncle 's displeasure was abating , and would abate farther as he considered the matter with more impartiality , and felt , as a good man must feel , how wretched , and how unpardonable , how hopeless and how wicked it was , to marry without affection . 
When the meeting with which she was threatened for the morrow was past , she could not but flatter herself that the subject would be finally concluded , and Mr. Crawford once gone from Mansfield , that every thing would soon be as if no such subject had existed . 
She would not , could not believe , that Mr. Crawford 's affection for her could distress him long ; his mind was not of that sort . 
In London he would soon learn to wonder at his infatuation , and be thankful for the right reason in her , which had saved him from its evil consequences . 
While Fanny 's mind was engaged in these sort of hopes , her uncle was soon after tea called out of the room ; an occurrence too common to strike her , and she thought nothing of it till the butler re-appeared ten minutes afterwards , and advancing decidedly towards herself , said , `` Sir Thomas wishes to speak with you , Ma'am , in his own room . '' 
Then it occurred to her what might be going on ; a suspicion rushed over her mind which drove the colour from her cheeks ; but instantly rising , she was preparing to obey , when Mrs. Norris called out , `` Stay , stay , Fanny ! 
Mrs. Norris much discontented was obliged to compose herself to work again ; and Fanny , walking off in agitating consciousness , found herself , as she anticipated , in another minute alone with Mr. Crawford . 
To Fanny , however , who had known too much opposition all her life , to find any charm in it , all this was unintelligible . 
Fanny knew her own meaning , but was no judge of her own manner . 
Her manner was incurably gentle , and she was not aware how much it concealed the sternness of her purpose . 
Her diffidence , gratitude , and softness , made every expression of indifference seem almost an effort of self-denial ; seem at least , to be giving nearly as much pain to herself as to him . 
Mr. Crawford was no longer the Mr. Crawford who , as the clandestine , insidious , treacherous admirer of Maria Bertram , had been her abhorrence , whom she had hated to see or to speak to , in whom she could believe no good quality to exist , and whose power , even of being agreeable , she had barely acknowledged . 
He was now the Mr. Crawford who was addressing herself with ardent , disinterested , love ; whose feelings were apparently become all that was honourable and upright , whose views of happiness were all fixed on a marriage of attachment ; who was pouring out his sense of her merits , describing and describing again his affection , proving , as far as words could prove it , and in the language , tone , and spirit of a man of talent too , that he sought her for her gentleness , and her goodness ; and to complete the whole , he was now the Mr. Crawford who had procured . 
She might have disdained him in all the dignity of angry virtue , in the grounds of Sotherton , or the theatre at Mansfield Park ; but he approached her now with rights that demanded different treatment . 
She must be courteous , and she must be compassionate . 
She must have a sensation of being honoured , and whether thinking of herself or her brother , she must have a strong feeling of gratitude . 
The effect of the whole was a manner so pitying and agitated , and words intermingled with her refusal so expressive of obligation and concern , that to a temper of vanity and hope like Crawford 's , the truth , or at least the strength of her indifference , might well be questionable ; and he was not so irrational as Fanny considered him , in the professions of persevering , assiduous , and not desponding attachment which closed the interview . 
It was with reluctance that he suffered her to go , but there was no look of despair in parting to bely his words , or give her hopes of his being less unreasonable than he professed himself . 
Now she was angry . 
Here was again a want of delicacy and regard for others which had formerly so struck and disgusted her . 
Here was again a something of the same Mr. Crawford whom she had so reprobated before . 
Had her own affections been as free -- as perhaps they ought to have been -- he never could have engaged them . 
So thought Fanny in good truth and sober sadness , as she sat musing over that too great indulgence and luxury of a fire upstairs -- wondering at the past and present , wondering at what was yet to come , and in a nervous agitation which made nothing clear to her but the persuasion of her being never under any circumstances able to love Mr. Crawford , and the felicity of having a fire to sit over and think of it . 
-- The first feeling was disappointment ; he had hoped better things ; he had thought that an hour 's intreaty from a young man like Crawford could not have worked so little change on a gentle temper 'd girl like Fanny ; but there was speedy comfort in the determined views and sanguine perseverance of the lover ; and when seeing such confidence of success in the principal , Sir Thomas was soon able to depend on it himself . 
Mr. Crawford 's steadiness was honoured , and Fanny was praised , and the connection was still the most desirable in the world . 
Accordingly , on this principle Sir Thomas took the first opportunity of saying to her , with a mild gravity , intended to be overcoming , `` Well , Fanny , I have seen Mr. Crawford again , and learn from him exactly how matters stand between you . 
`` Indeed , Sir , '' said Fanny , `` I am very sorry that Mr. Crawford should continue to -- I know that it is paying me a very great compliment , and I feel most undersevedly honoured , but I am so perfectly convinced , and I have told him so , that it never will be in my power -- '' `` My dear , '' interrupted Sir Thomas , `` there is no occasion for this . 
And now , my dear Fanny , this subject is closed between us . '' 
The promised departure was all that Fanny could think of with much satisfaction . 
Her uncle 's kind expressions , however , and forbearing manner , were sensibly felt ; and when she considered how much of the truth was unknown to him , she believed she had no right to wonder at the line of conduct he pursued . 
When Qir Thomas understood this , he felt the necessity of making his own wife and sister-in-law acquainted with the business without delay ; though on Fanny 's account , he almost dreaded the effect of the communication to Mrs. Norris as much as Fanny herself . 
He deprecated her mistaken , but well-meaning zeal . 
Angry she was , bitterly angry ; but she was more angry with Fanny for having received such an offer , than for refusing it . 
It was an injury and affront to Julia , who ought to have been Mr. Crawford 's choice ; and , independently of that , she disliked Fanny , because she had neglected her ; and she would have grudged such an elevation to one whom she had been always trying to depress . 
Sir Thomas gave her more credit for discretion on the occasion than she deserved ; and Fanny could have blessed her for allowing her only to see her displeasure , and not to hear it . 
To know Fanny to be sought in marriage by a man of fortune , raised her , therefore , very much in her opinion . 
By convincing her that Fanny was very pretty , which she had been doubting about before , and that she would be advantageously married , it made her feel a sort of credit in calling her niece . 
`` Well , Fanny , '' said she , as soon as they were alone together afterwards , -- and she really had known something like impatience , to be alone with her , and her countenance , as she spoke , had extraordinary animation -- `` Well , Fanny , I have had a very agreeable surprise this morning . 
-- and looking at her complacently , she added `` Humph -- We certainly are a handsome family . '' 
Fanny coloured , and doubted at first what to say ; when hoping to assail her on her vulnerable side , she presently answered , `` My dear aunt , you can not wish me to do differently from what I have done , I am sure . 
And you must be aware , Fanny , that it is every young woman 's duty to accept such a very unexceptionable offer as this . '' 
This was almost the only rule of conduct , the only piece of advice , which Fanny had ever received from her aunt in the course of eight years and a half . 
-- It silenced her . 
She felt how unprofitable contention would be . 
If her aunt 's feelings were against her , nothing could be hoped from attacking her understanding . 
`` I will tell you what , Fanny , '' said she . 
-- '' And I will tell you what , Fanny -- which is more than I did for Maria -- the next time pug has a litter you shall have a puppy . '' 
After dinner , when he and his father were alone , he had Fanny 's history ; and then all the great events of the last fortnight , and the present situation of matters at Mansfield were known to him . 
Fanny suspected what was going on . 
They sat so much longer than usual in the dining parlour , that she was sure they must be talking of her ; and when tea at last brought them away , and she was to be seen by Edmund again , she felt dreadfully guilty . 
He came to her , sat down by her , took her hand , and pressed it kindly ; and at that moment she thought that , but for the occupation and the scene which the tea things afforded , she must have betrayed her emotion in some unpardonable excess . 
He was not intending , however , by such action , to be conveying to her that unqualified approbation and encouragement which her hopes drew from it . 
It was designed only to express his participation in all that interested her , and to tell her that he had been hearing what quickened every feeling of affection . 
His surprise was not so great as his father 's , at her refusing Crawford , because , so far from supposing her to consider him with anything like a preference , he had always believed it to be rather the reverse , and could imagine her to be taken perfectly unprepared , but Sir Thomas could not regard the connection as more desirable than he did . 
It had every recommendation to him , and while honouring her for what she had done under the influence of her present indifference , honouring her in rather stronger terms than Sir Thomas could quite echo , he was most earnest in hoping , and sanguine in believing , that it would be a match at last , and that , united by mutual affection , it would appear that their dispositions were as exactly fitted to make them blessed in each other , as he was now beginning seriously to consider them . 
Meanwhile , he saw enough of Fanny 's embarrassment to make him scrupulously guard against exciting it a second time , by any word , or look , or movement . 
He staid of course , and Edmund had then ample opportunity for observing how he sped with Fanny , and what degree of immediate encouragement for him might be extracted from her manners ; and it was so little , so very very little , -LRB- every chance , every possibility of it , resting upon her embarrassment only , if there was not hope in her confusion , there was hope in nothing else -RRB- that he was almost ready to wonder at his friend 's perseverance . 
-- Fanny was worth it all ; he held her to be worth every effort of patience , every exertion of mind -- but he did not think he could have gone on himself with any woman breathing , without something more to warm his courage than his eyes could discern in her 's . 
When he and Crawford walked into the drawing room , his mother and Fanny were sitting as intently and silently at work as if there were nothing else to care for . 
`` Fanny has been reading to me , and only put the book down upon hearing you coming . '' 
-- `` She often reads to me out of those books ; and she was in the middle of a very fine speech of that man 's -- What 's his name , Fanny ? 
-- Not a look , or an offer of help had Fanny given ; not a syllable for or against . 
-- His acting had first taught Fanny what pleasure a play might give , and his reading brought all his acting before her again ; nay , perhaps with greater enjoyment , for it came unexpectedly , and with no such drawback as she had been used to suffer in seeing him on the stage with Miss Bertram . 
Then , she was shrinking again into herself , and blushing and working as hard as ever ; but it had been enough to give Edmund encouragement for his friend , and as he cordially thanked him , he hoped to be expressing Fanny 's secret feelings too . 
Both gentlemen had a glance at Fanny , to see if a word of accordant praise could be extorted from her ; yet both feeling that it could not be . 
-- And he looked at Fanny with an expressive smile , which evidently meant , `` that lady will never allow a theatre at Everingham . '' 
Edmund saw it all , and saw Fanny so determined not to see it , as to make it clear that the voice was enough to convey the full meaning of the protestation ; and such a quick consciousness of compliment , such a ready comprehension of a hint , he thought , was rather favourable than not . 
The two young men were the only talkers , but they , standing by the fire , talked over the too common neglect of the qualification , the total inattention to it , in the ordinary school-system for boys , the consequently natural -- yet in some instances almost unnatural degree of ignorance and uncouthness of men , of sensible and well-informed men , when suddenly called to the necessity of reading aloud , which had fallen within their notice , giving instances of blunders , and failures with their secondary causes , the want of management of the voice , of proper modulation and emphasis , of foresight and judgment , all proceeding from the first cause , want of early attention and habit ; and Fanny was listening again with great entertainment . 
Edmund had already gone through the service once since his Ordination ; and upon this being understood , he had a variety of questions from Crawford as to his feelings and success ; questions which being made -- though with the vivacity of friendly interest and quick taste -- without any touch of that spirit of banter or air of levity which Edmund knew to be most offensive to Fanny , he had true pleasure in satisfying , and when Crawford proceeded to ask his opinion and give his own as to the properest manner in which particular passages in the service should be delivered , shewing it to be a subject on which he had thought before , and thought with judgment , Edmund was still more and more pleased . 
This would be the way to Fanny 's heart . 
She was not to be won by all that gallantry and wit , and good nature together , could do ; or at least , she would not be won by them nearly so soon , without the assistance of sentiment and feeling , and seriousness on serious subjects . 
For myself , at least , I must confess being not always so attentive as I ought to be -- -LRB- here was a glance at Fanny -RRB- that nineteen times out of twenty I am thinking how such a prayer ought to be read , and longing to have it to read myself -- Did you speak ? '' 
stepping eagerly to Fanny , and addressing her in a softened voice ; and upon her saying , `` No , '' he added , `` are you sure you did not speak ? 
`` No , indeed , you know your duty too well for me to -- even supposing -- '' She stopt , felt herself getting into a puzzle , and could not be prevailed on to add another word , not by dint of several minutes of supplication and waiting . 
Here Fanny , who could not but listen , involuntarily shook her head , and Crawford was instantly by her side again , intreating to know her meaning ; and as Edmund perceived , by his drawing in a chair , and sitting down close by her , that it was to be a very thorough attack , that looks and undertones were to be well tried , he sank as quietly as possible into a corner , turned his back , and took up a newspaper , very sincerely wishing that dear little Fanny might be persuaded into explaining away that shake of the head to the satisfaction of her ardent lover ; and as earnestly trying to bury every sound of the business from himself in murmurs of his own , over the various advertisements of `` a most desirable estate in South Wales '' -- `` To Parents and Guardians '' -- and a `` Capital season 'd Hunter . '' 
Fanny , meanwhile , vexed with herself for not having been as motionless as she was speechless , and grieved to the heart to see Edmund 's arrangements , was trying , by every thing in the power of her modest gentle nature , to repulse Mr. Crawford and avoid both his looks and enquiries ; and he unrepulsable was persisting in both . 
In vain was her `` Pray , Sir , do n't -- pray Mr. Crawford , '' repeated twice over ; and in vain did she try to move away -- In the same low eager voice , and the same close neighbour hood , he went on , re-urging the same questions as before . 
She grew more agitated and displeased . 
In spite of herself , she could not help half a smile , but she said nothing . 
`` Perhaps , Sir , '' said Fanny , wearied at last into speaking -- `` perhaps , Sir , I thought it was a pity you did not always know yourself as well as you semed to do at that moment . '' 
Crawford , delighted to get her to speak at any rate , was determined to keep it up ; and poor Fanny , who had hoped to silence him by such an extremity of reproof , found herself sadly mistaken , and that it was only a change from one object of curiosity and one set of words to another . 
None such had occurred since his seeing her in her Uncle 's room , none such might occur again before his leaving Mansfield . 
By that right I do and will deserve you ; and when once convinced that my attachment is what I declare it , I know you too well not to entertain the warmest hopes -- Yes , dearest , sweetest Fanny -- Nay -- -LRB- seeing her draw back displeased -RRB- forgive me . 
No , it is ` Fanny ' that I think of all day , and dream of all night . 
Fanny could hardly have kept her seat any longer , or have refrained from at least trying to get away in spite of all the too public opposition she foresaw to it , had it not been for the sound of approaching relief , the very sound which she had been long watching for , and long thinking strangely delayed . 
The solemn procession , headed by Baddely , of tea-board , urn , and cake-bearers , made its appearance , and delivered her from a grievous imprisonment of body and mind . 
She was at liberty , she was busy , she was protected . 
But though the conference had seemed full long to him , and though on looking at Fanny he saw rather a flush of vexation , he inclined to hope that so much could not have been said and listened to , without some prfiot to the speaker . 
Edmund had determined that it belonged entirely to Fanny to chuse whether her situation with regard to Crawford should be mentioned between them or not ; and that if she did not lead the way , it should never be touched on by him ; but after a day or two of mutual reserve , he was induced by his father to change his mind , and try what his influence might do for his friend . 
Edmund was not unwilling to be persuaded to engage in the business ; he wanted to know Fanny 's feelings . 
She had been used to consult him in every difficulty , and he loved her too well to bear to be denied her confidence now ; he hoped to be of service to her , he thought he must be of service to her , whom else had she to open her heart to ? 
If she did not need counsel , she must need the comfort of communication . 
Fanny estranged from him , silent and reserved , was an unnatural state of things ; a state which he must break through , and which he could easily learn to think she was wanting him to break through . 
`` I will speak to her , Sir ; I will take the first opportunity of speaking to her alone , '' was the result of such thoughts as these ; and upon Sir Thomas 's information of her being at that very time walking alone in the shrubbery , he instantly joined her . 
`` I am come to walk with you , Fanny , '' said he . 
-- -LRB- drawing her arm within his , -RRB- `` it is a long while since we have had a comfortable walk together . '' 
She assented to it all rather by look than word . 
Her spirits were low . 
`` But , Fanny , '' he presently added , `` in order to have a comfortable walk , something more is necessary than merely pacing this gravel together . 
Am I to hear of it from every body but Fanny herself ? '' 
Fanny at once agitated and dejected , replied , `` If you hear of it from every body , cousin , there can be nothing for me to tell . '' 
`` Not of facts , perhaps ; but of feelings , Fanny . 
`` This comfort you might have had sooner , Fanny , had you sought it . 
`` As far as you have gone , Fanny , I think you perfectly right . 
Fanny had not felt so comfortable for days and days . 
But -LRB- with an affectionate smile -RRB- , let him succeed at last , Fanny , let him succeed at last . 
And she spoke with a warmth which quite astonished Edmund , and which she blushed at the recollection of herself , when she saw his look , and heard him reply , `` Never , Fanny ! 
`` I mean , '' she cried , sorrowfully , correcting herself , `` that I think , I never shall , as far as the future can be answered for -- I think I never shall return his regard . '' 
I wish he had known you as well as I do , Fanny . 
`` We are so totally unlike , '' said Fanny , avoiding a direct answer , `` we are so very , very different in all our inclinations and ways , that I consider it as quite impossible we should ever be tolerably happy together , even if I could like him . 
`` You are mistaken , Fanny . 
You have both warm hearts and benevolent feelings ; and Fanny , who that heard him read , and saw you listen to Shakespeare the other night , will think you unfitted as companions ? 
Your being so far unlike , Fanny , does not in the smallest degree make against the probability of your happiness together : do not imagine it . 
Full well could Fanny guess where his thoughts were now . 
After leaving him to his happier thoughts for some minutes , Fanny feeling it due to herself , returned to Mr. Crawford , and said , `` It is not merely in temper that I consider him as totally unsuited to myself ; though in that respect , I think the difference between us too great , infinitely too great ; his spirits often oppress me -- but there is something in him which I object to still more . 
`` My dear Fanny , '' replied Edmund , scarcely hearing her to the end , `` let us not , any of us , be judged by what we appeared at that period of general folly . 
`` As a by-stander , '' said Fanny , `` perhaps I saw more than you did ; and I do think that Mr. Rushworth was sometimes very jealous . '' 
And Fanny , though I hope I do justice to my sisters good qualities , I think it very possible that they might , one or both , be more desirous of being admired by Crawford , and might shew that desire rather more unguardedly than was perfectly prudent . 
He will make you happy , Fanny , I know he will make you happy ; but you will make him every thing . '' 
`` I would not engage in such a charge , '' cried Fanny in a shrinking accent -- `` in such an office of high responsibility ! '' 
Next to your happiness , Fanny , his has the first claim on me . 
Fanny was too well aware of it , to have anything to say ; and they walked on together some fifty yards in mutual silence and abstraction . 
Edmund first began again : -- `` I was very much pleased by her manner of speaking of it yesterday , particularly pleased , because I had not depended upon her seeing every thing in so just a light . 
I knew she was very fond of you , but yet I was afraid of her not estimating your worth to her brother , quite as it deserved , and of her regretting that he had not rather fixed on some woman of distinction , or fortune . 
I was afraid of the bias of those worldly maxims , which she has been too much used to hear . 
She spoke of you , Fanny , just as she ought . 
She desires the connection as warmly as your uncle or myself . 
I should not have mentioned the subject , though very anxious to know her sentiments -- but I had not been in the room five minutes , before she began , introducing it with all that openness of heart , and sweet peculiarity of manner , that spirit and ingenuousness , which are so much a part of herself . 
`` Yes , when I reached the house I found the two sisters together by themselves ; and when once we had begun , we had not done with you , Fanny , till Crawford and Dr. Grant came in . '' 
She is very angry with you , Fanny ; you must be prepared for that . 
She calls herself very angry , but you can imagine her anger . 
It is the regret and disappointment of a sister , who thinks her brother has a right to every thing he may wish for , at the first moment . 
She is hurt , as you would be for William ; but she loves and esteems you with all her heart . '' 
`` I knew she would be very angry with me . '' 
`` My dearest Fanny , '' cried Edmund , pressing her arm closer to him , `` do not let the idea of her anger distress you . 
And I observed , that she always spoke of you as ` Fanny , ' which she was never used to do ; and it had a sound of most sisterly cordiality . '' 
The surprise of your refusal , Fanny , seems to have been unbounded . 
`` I should have thought , '' said Fanny , after a pause of recollection and exertion , `` that every woman must have felt the possibility of a man 's not being approved , not being loved by some one of her sex , at least , let him be ever so generally agreeable . 
`` My dear , dear Fanny , now I have the truth . 
Fanny could with difficulty give the smile that was here asked for . 
Her feelings were all in revolt . 
She feared she had been doing wrong , saying too much , overacting the caution which she had been fancying necessary , in guarding against one evil , laying herself open to another , and to have Miss Crawford 's liveliness repeated to her at such a moment , and on such a subject , was a bitter aggravation . 
But I am spoilt , Fanny , for common female society . 
Still , however , Fanny was oppressed and wearied ; he saw it in her looks , it could not be talked away , and attempting it no more , he led her directly with the kind authority of a privileged guardian into the house . 
Edmund now believed himself perfectly acquainted with all that Fanny could tell , or could leave to be conjectured of her sentiments , and he was satisfied . 
Edmund 's account of Fanny 's disposition he could believe to be just , he supposed she had all those feelings , but he must consider it as very unfortunate that she had ; for , less willing than his son to trust to the future , he could not help fearing that if such very long allowances of time and habit were necessary for her , she might not have persuaded herself into receiving his addresses properly , before the young man 's inclination for paying them were over . 
The promised visit from her `` friend , '' as Edmund called Miss Crawford , was a formidable threat to Fanny , and she lived in continual terror of it . 
Her displeasure , her penetration , and her happiness were all fearful to encounter ; and the dependence of having others present when they met , was Fanny 's only support in looking forward to it . 
She absented herself as little as possible from Lady . 
Bertram , kept away from the East-room , and took no solitary walk in the shrubbery , in her caution to avoid any sudden attack . 
She succeeded . 
She was safe in the Breakfast-room with her Aunt , when Miss Crawford did come ; and the first misery over , and Miss Crawford looking and speaking with much less particularity of expression than she had anticipated , Fanny began to hope there would be nothing worse to be endured than an half-hour of moderate agitation . 
But here she hoped too much , Miss Crawford was not the slave of opportunity . 
She was determined to see Fanny alone , and therefore said to her tolerably soon , in a low voice , `` I must speak to you for a few minutes somewhere ; '' words that Fanny felt all over her , in all her pulses , and all her nerves . 
Her habits of ready submission , on the contrary , made her almost instantly rise and lead the way out of the room . 
She did it with wretched feelings , but it was inevitable . 
She immediately shook her head at Fanny with arch , yet affectionate reproach , and taking her hand , seemed hardly able to help beginning directly . 
Fanny naturally turned up stairs , and took her guest to the apartment which was now always fit for comfortable use ; opening the door , however , with a most aching heart , and feeling that she had a more distressing scene before her than ever that spot had yet witnessed . 
But the evil ready to burst on her , was at least delayed by the sudden change in Miss Crawford 's ideas ; by the strong effect on her mind which the finding herself in the east room again produced . 
Say what you would , Fanny , it should be that ; for I never knew such exquisite happiness in any other . 
Yet , Fanny , do not imagine I would now speak disrespectfully of Sir Thomas , though I certainly did hate him for many a week . 
And having said so , with a degree of tenderness and consciousness which Fanny had never seen in her before , and now thought only too becoming , she turned away for a moment to recover herself . 
`` I have had a little fit since I came into this room , as you may perceive , '' said she presently , with a playful smile , `` but it is over now ; so let us sit down and be comfortable ; for as to scolding you , Fanny , which I came fully intending to do , I have not the heart for it when it comes to the point . 
And embracing her very affectionately , -- `` Good , gentle Fanny ! 
when I think of this being the last time of seeing you ; for I do not know how long -- I feel it quite impossible to do any thing but love you '' Fanny was affected . 
She had not foreseen anything of this , and her feelings could seldom withstand the melancholy influence of the word `` last . '' 
She cried as if she had loved Miss Crawford more than she possibly could ; and Miss Crawford , yet farther softened by the sight of such emotion , hung about her with fondness , and said , `` I hate to leave you . 
I feel that we are born to be connected ; and those tears convince me that you feel it too , dear Fanny . '' 
Fanny roused herself , and replying only in part , said , `` But you are only going from one set of friends to another . 
After this speech , the two girls sat many minutes silent , each thoughtful ; Fanny meditating on the different sorts of friendship in the world , Mary on something of less philosophic tendency . 
`` Why , Fanny , you are absolutely in a reverie ! 
I shall be at Mansfield for ever , Fanny . 
I have not so much to say for my friend Flora , who jilted a very nice young man in the Blues , for the sake of that horrid Lord Stornaway , who has about as much sense , Fanny , as Mr. Rushworth , but much worse looking , and with a blackguard character . 
I had my doubts at the time about her being right , for he has not even the air of a gentleman , and now , I am sure , she was wrong . 
It is you only , you , insensible Fanny , who can think of him with anything like indifference . 
There was indeed so deep a blush over Fanny 's face at that moment , as might warrant strong suspicion in a pre-disposed mind . 
But dear Fanny , you must allow that you were not so absolutely unprepared to have the question asked , as your cousin fancies . 
`` I will not say , '' replied Fanny , `` that I was not half afraid at the time , of its being so ; for there was something in your look that frightened me -- but not at first -- I was as unsuspicious of it at first ! 
And then , Fanny , the glory of fixing one who has been shot at by so many ; of having it in one 's power to pay off the debts of one 's sex ! 
Fanny shook her head . 
Fanny could not avoid a faint smile , but had nothing to say . 
She had made a sure push at Fanny 's feelings here . 
Poor Fanny 's mind was thrown into the most distressing of all its varieties . 
The recollection of what had been done for William was always the most powerful disturber of every decision against Mr. Crawford ; and she sat thinking deeply of it till Mary , who had been first watching her complacently , and then musing on something else , suddenly called her attention , by saying , `` I should like to sit talking with you here all day , but we must not forget the ladies below , and so good bye , my dear , my amiable , my excellent , Fanny , for though we shall nominally part in the breakfast parlour , I must take leave of you here . 
I have two favours to ask , Fanny ; one is your correspondence . 
The first , at least , of these favours Fanny would rather not have been asked ; but it was impossible for her to refuse the correspondence ; it was impossible for her even not to accede to it more readily than her own judgment authorised . 
Her disposition was peculiarly calculated to value a fond treatment , and from having hitherto known so little of it , she was the more overcome by Miss Crawford 's . 
He was evidently oppressed , and Fanny must grieve for him , though hoping she might never see him again till he were the husband of some other woman . 
He wondered that Fanny spoke so seldom of her , and had so little voluntarily to say of her concern at this separation . 
it was this sister , this friend and companion , who was now the chief bane of Fanny 's comfort . 
-- If she could have believed Mary 's future fate as unconnected with Mansfield , as she was determined the brother 's should be , if she could have hoped her return thither , to be as distant as she was much inclined to think his , she would have been light of heart indeed ; but the more she recollected and observed , the more deeply was she convinced that every thing was now in a fairer train for Miss Crawford 's marrying Edmund than it had ever been before . 
He was to go to town , as soon as some business relative to Thornton Lacey were completed -- perhaps , within a fortnight , he talked of going , he loved to talk of it ; and when once with her again , Fanny could not doubt the rest . 
-- Her acceptance must be as certain as his offer ; and yet , there were bad feelings still remaining which made the prospect of it most sorrowful to her , independently -- she believed independently of self . 
Fanny believed there was scarcely a second feeling in common between them ; and she may be forgiven by older sages , for looking on the chance of Miss Crawford 's future improvement as nearly desperate , for thinking that if Edmund 's influence in this season of love , had already done so little in clearing her judgment , and regulating her notions , his worth would be finally wasted on her even in years of matrimony . 
-- But as such were Fanny 's persuasions , she suffered very much from them , and could never speak of Miss Crawford without pain . 
So the uniform remained at Portsmouth , and Edmund conjectured that before Fanny had any chance of seeing it , all its own freshness , and all the freshness of its wearer 's feelings , must be worn away . 
So reasoned Edmund , till his father made him the confident of a scheme which placed Fanny 's chance of seeing the 2d lieutenant of H. M. S. Thrush , in all his glory in another light . 
This scheme was that she should accompany her brother back to Portsmouth , and spend a little time with her own family . 
The thing was good in itself , and could not be done at a better time ; and he had no doubt of it being highly agreeable to Fanny . 
Had Fanny been at all addicted to raptures , she must have had a strong attack of them , when she first understood what was intended , when her uncle first made her the offer of visiting the parents and brothers , and sisters , from whom she had been divided , almost half her life , of returning for a couple of months to the scenes of her infancy , with William for the protector and companion of her journey ; and the certainty of continuing to see William to the last hour of his remaining on land . 
When he had really resolved on any measure , he could always carry it through ; and now by dint of long talking on the subject , explaining and dwelling on the duty of Fanny 's sometimes seeing her family , he did induce his wife to let her go ; obtaining rather from submission , however , than conviction , for Lady Bertram was convinced of very little more than , that Sir Thomas thought Fanny ought to go , and therefore that she must . 
In the calmness of her own dressing room , in the impartial flow of her own meditations , unbiassed by his bewildering statements , she could not acknowledge any necessity for Fanny 's ever going near a Father and Mother who had done without her so long , while she was so useful to herself . 
-- And as to the not missing her , which under Mrs. Norris 's discussion was the point attempted to be proved , she set herself very steadily against admitting any such thing . 
But Mrs. Norris wanted to persuade her that Fanny could be very well spared -- -LRB- She being ready to give up all her own time to her as requested -RRB- and in short could not really be wanted or missed . 
Fanny wrote to offer herself ; and her mother 's answer , though short , was so kind , a few simple lines expressed so natural and motherly a joy in the prospect of seeing her child again , as to confirm all the daughter 's views of happiness in being with her -- convincing her that she should now find a warm and affectionate friend in the `` Mamma '' who had certainly shewn no remarkable fondness for her formerly ; but this she could easily suppose to have been her own fault , or her own fancy . 
She had probably alienated Love by the helplessness and fretfulness of a fearful temper , or been unreasonable in wanting a larger share than any one among so many could deserve . 
Now , when she knew better how to be useful and how to forbear , and when her mother could be no longer occupied by the incessant demands of a house full of little children , there would be leisure and inclination for every comfort , and they should soon be what mother and daughter ought to be to each other . 
By the time Mrs. Price 's answer arrived , there remained but a very few days more to be spent at Mansfield ; and for part of one of those days the young travellers were in a good deal of alarm on the subject of their journey , for when the mode of it came to be talked of , and Mrs. Norris found that all her anxiety to save her Brother-in-law 's money was vain , and that in spite of her wishes and hints for a less expensive conveyance of Fanny , they were to travel post , when she saw Sir Thomas actually give William notes for the purpose , she was struck with the idea of there being room for a third in the carriage , and suddenly seized with a strong inclination to go with them -- to go and see her poor dear sister Price . 
William and Fanny were horror-struck at the idea . 
Edmund 's plans were affected by this Portsmouth journey , this absence of Fanny 's . 
He told Fanny of it . 
It made the substance of one other confidential discourse about Miss Crawford ; and Fanny was the more affected from feeling it to be the last time in which Miss Crawford 's name would ever be mentioned between them with any remains of liberty . 
Lady Bertram had been telling her niece in the evening to write to her soon and often , and promising to be a good correspondent herself ; and Edmund , at a convenient moment , then added , in a whisper , `` And I shall write to you , Fanny , when I have any thing worth writing about ; any thing to say , that I think you will like to hear , and that you will not hear so soon from any other quarter . '' 
Poor Fanny ! 
All this passed over night , for the journey was to begin very early in the morning ; and when the small , diminished party met at breakfast , William and Fanny were talked of as already advanced one stage . 
The novelty of travelling , and the happiness of being with William , soon produced their natural effect on Fanny 's spirits , when Mansfield Park was fairly left behind , and by the time their first stage was ended , and they were to quit Sir Thomas 's Carriage , she was able to take leave of the old coachman , and send back proper messages , with cheerful looks . 
Every thing supplied an amusement to the high glee of William 's mind , and he was full of frolic and joke , in the intervals of their higher-toned subjects , all of which ended , if they did not begin , in praise of the Thrush , conjectures how she would be employed , schemes for an action with some superior force , which -LRB- supposing the first lieutenant out of the way -- and William was not always merciful to the first lieutenant -RRB- was to give himself the next step as soon as possible , or speculations upon prize money , which was to be generously distributed at home , with only the reservation of enough to make the little cottage comfortable , in which he and Fanny were to pass all their middle and latter life together . 
Fanny 's immediate concerns , as far as they involved Mr. Crawford , made no part of their conversation . 
It was a correspondence which Fanny found quite as unpleasant as she had feared . 
-- There had , in fact , been so much of message , of allusion , of recollection , so much of Mansfield in every letter , that Fanny could not but suppose it meant for him to hear ; and to find herself forced into a purpose of that kind , compelled into a correspondence which was bringing her the addresses of the man she did not love , and obliging her to administer to the adverse passion of the man she did , was cruelly mortifying . 
Here too , her present removal promised advantage . 
When no longer under the same roof with Edmund , she trusted that Miss Crawford would have no motive for writing , strong enough to overcome the trouble , and that at Portsmouth their correspondence would dwindle into nothing . 
With such thoughts as these among ten hundred others , Fanny proceeded in her journey , safely and cheerfully , and as expeditiously as could rationally be hoped in the dirty month of February . 
They entered Oxford , but she could take only a hasty glimpse of Edmund 's College as they passed along , and made no stop any where , till they reached Newbury , where a comfortable meal , uniting dinner and supper , wound up the enjoyments and fatigues of the day . 
The next morning saw them off again at an early hour ; and with no events and no delays they regularly advanced , and were in the environs of Portsmouth while there was yet daylight for Fanny to look around her , and wonder at the new buildings . 
Fanny was all agitation and flutter -- all hope and apprehension . 
The moment they stopt , a trollopy looking maid-servant , seemingly in waiting for them at the door , stept forward , and more intent on telling the news , than giving them any help , immediately began with , `` the Thrush is gone out of harbour , please Sir , and one of the officers has been here to '' -- She was interrupted by a fine tall boy of eleven years old , who rushing out of the house , pushed the maid aside , and while William was opening the chaise door himself , called out , `` you are just in time . 
I saw her . 
And they think she will have her orders in a day or two . 
And Mr. Campbell was here at four o'clock , to ask for you , he has got one of the Thrush 's boats , and is going off to her at six , and hoped you would be here in time to go with him . '' 
A stare or two at Fanny , as William helped her out of the carriage , was all the voluntary notice which this brother bestowed ; -- but he made no objection to her kissing him , though still entirely engaged in detailing farther particulars of the Thrush 's going out of harbour , in which he had a strong right of interest , being to commence his career of seamanship in her at this very time . 
Another moment , and Fanny was in the narrow entrance-passage of the house , and in her mother 's arms , who met her there with looks of true kindness , and with features which Fanny loved the more , because they brought her aunt Bertram 's before her ; and there were her two sisters , Susan , a well-grown fine girl of fourteen , and Betsey , the youngest of the family , about five -- both glad to see her in their way , though with no advantage of manner in receiving her . 
But manner Fanny did not want . 
Would they but love her , she should be satisfied . 
She was then taken into a parlour , so small that her first conviction was of its being only a passage-room to something better , and she stood for a moment expecting to be invited on ; but when she saw there was no other door , and that there were signs of habitation before her , she called back her thoughts , reproved herself , and grieved lest they should have been suspected . 
Her mother , however , could not stay long enough to suspect anything . 
She was gone again to the street door , to welcome William . 
She is gone out of harbour already , three days before we had any thought of it ; and I do not know what I am to do about Sam 's things , they will never be ready in time ; for she may have her orders to-morrow , perhaps . 
Her son answered cheerfully , telling her that every thing was always for the best ; and making light of his own inconvenience , in being obliged to hurry away so soon . 
`` To be sure , I had much rather she had stayed in harbour , that I might have sat a few hours with you in comfort ; but as there is a boat ashore , I had better go off at once , and there is no help for it . 
But no matter -- here 's Fanny in the parlour , and why should we stay in the passage ? 
-- Come , mother , you have hardly looked at your own dear Fanny yet . '' 
`` I was up stairs , mamma , moving my things ; '' said Susan , in a fearless self-defending tone , which startled Fanny . 
`` you know you had but just settled that my sister Fanny and I should have the other room ; and I could not get Rebecca to give me any help . '' 
Fanny , with doubting feelings , had risen to meet him , but sank down again on finding herself undistinguished in the dusk , and unthought of . 
But here is my sister , Sir , here is Fanny ; '' turning and leading her forward ; -- `` it is so dark you do not see her . '' 
With an acknowledgement that he had quite forgot her , Mr. Price now received his daughter ; and , having given her a cordial hug , and observed that she was grown into a woman , and he supposed would be wanting a husband soon , seemed very much inclined to forget her again . 
Fanny shrunk back to her seat , with feelings sadly pained by his language and his smell of spirits ; and he talked on only to his son , and only of the Thrush , though William , warmly interested , as he was , in that subject , more than once tried to make his father think of Fanny , and her long absence and long journey . 
As he left the room , two rosy-faced boys , ragged and dirty , about eight and nine years old , rushed into it just released from school , and coming eagerly to see their sister , and tell that the Thrush was gone out of harbour ; Tom and Charles ; Charles had been born since Fanny 's going away , but Tom she had often helped to nurse , and now felt a particular pleasure in seeing again . 
Both were kissed very tenderly , but Tom she wanted to keep by her , to try to trace the features of the baby she had loved , and talked to , of his infant preference of herself . 
Tom , however , had no mind for such treatment ; he came home , not to stand and be talked to , but to run about and make a noise ; and both boys had soon burst away from her and slammed the parlour door till her temples ached . 
She had now seen all that were at home ; there remained only two brothers between herself and Susan , one of whom was clerk in a public office in London , and the other midshipman on board an Indiaman . 
Fanny was almost stunned . 
The smallness of the house , and thinness of the walls , brought every thing so close to her , that , added to the fatigue of her journey , and all her recent agitation , she hardly knew how to bear it . 
This threat was so palpably disregarded , that though within five minutes afterwards the three boys all burst into the room together and sat down , Fanny could not consider it as a proof of any thing more than their being for the time thoroughly fagged , which their hot faces and panting breaths seemed to prove -- especially as they were still kicking each other 's shins , and hallooing out at sudden starts immediately under their father 's eye . 
The next opening of the door brought something more welcome ; it was for the tea things , which she had begun almost to depair of seeing that evening . 
Susan and an attendant girl , whose inferior appearance informed Fanny , to her great surprise , that she had previously seen the upper servant , brought in every thing necessary for the meal ; Susan looking as she put the kettle on the fire and glanced at her sister , as if divided between the agreeable triumph of shewing her activity and usefulness , and the dread of being thought to demean herself by such an office . 
Fanny was very thankful . 
Fanny 's spirit was as much refreshed as her body ; her head and heart were soon the better for such well-timed kindness . 
Susan had an open , sensible countenance ; she was like William -- and Fanny hoped to find her like him in disposition and good will towards herself . 
He , complete in his Lieutenant 's uniform , looking and moving all the taller , firmer , and more graceful for it , and with the happiest smile over his face , walked up directly to Fanny -- who , rising from her seat , looked at him for a moment in speechless admiration , and then threw her arms round his neck to sob out her various emotions of pain and pleasure . 
The Bertrams were all forgotten in detailing the faults of Rebecca , against whom Susan had also much to depose , and little Betsey a great deal more , and who did seem so thoroughly without a single recommendation , that Fanny could not help modestly presuming that her mother meant to part with her , when her year was up . 
Fanny was silent ; but not from being convinced that there might not be a remedy found for some of these evils . 
As she now sat looking at Betsey , she could not but think particularly of another sister , a very pretty little girl , whom she had left there not much younger when she went into Northamptonshire , who had died a few years afterwards . 
Fanny , in those early days , had preferred her to Susan ; and when the news of her death had at last reached Mansfield , had for a short time been quite afflicted . 
said Fanny , `` come and shew it to me . '' 
Up jumped Susan claiming it as her own , and trying to get it away ; but the child ran to her mother 's protection , and Susan could only reproach , which she did very warmly , and evidently hoping to interest Fanny on her side . 
Fanny was quite shocked . 
Every feeling of duty , honour and tenderness was wounded by her sister 's speech and her mother 's reply . 
she was so fond of it , Fanny , that she would have it lay by her in bed , all through her illness . 
It was the gift of her good godmother , old Mrs. Admiral Maxwell , only six weeks before she was taken for death . 
Well , she was taken away from evil to come . 
Fanny had indeed nothing to convey from aunt Norris , but a message to say she hoped her god-daughter was a good girl , and learnt her book . 
Fanny fatigued and fatigued again , was thankful to accept the first invitation of going to bed ; and before Betsey had finished her cry at being allowed to sit up only one hour extraordinary in honour of sister , she was off , leaving all below in confusion and noise again , the boys begging for toasted cheese , her father calling out for his rum and water , and Rebecca never where she ought to be . 
He stepped back again to the door to say , `` Take care of Fanny , mother . 
I charge you , take care of Fanny . '' 
William was gone ; -- and the home he had left her in , was -- Fanny could not conceal it from herself -- in almost every respect , the very reverse of what she could have wished . 
She could not respect her parents , as she had hoped . 
On her father , her confidence had not been sanguine , but he was more negligent of his family , his habits were worse , and his manners coarser , than she had been prepared for . 
She had never been able to recal anything approaching to tenderness in his former treatment of herself . 
There had remained only a general impression of roughness and loudness ; and now he scarcely ever noticed her , but to make her the object of a coarse joke . 
Her disappointment in her mother was greater ; there she had hoped much , and found almost nothing . 
Every flattering scheme of being of consequence to her , soon fell to the ground . 
Her heart and her time were already quite full ; she had neither leisure nor affection to bestow on Fanny . 
Much of all this , Fanny could not but be sensible of . 
She might scruple to make use of the words , but she must and did feel that her mother was a partial , ill-judging parent , a dawdle , a slattern , who neither taught nor restrained her children , whose house was the scene of mismanagement and discomfort from beginning to end , and who had no talent , no conversation , no affection towards herself ; no curiosity to know her better , no desire of her friendship , and no inclination for her company that could lessen her sense of such feelings . 
Fanny was very anxious to be useful , and not to appear above her home , or in any way disqualified or disinclined , by her foreign education , from contributing her help to its comforts , and therefore , set about working for Sam immediately , and by working early and late , with perseverance and great dispatch , did so much , that the boy was shipped off at last , with more than half his linen ready . 
She had great pleasure in feeling her usefulness , but could not conceive how they would have managed without her . 
Sam , loud and overbearing as he was , she rather regretted when he went , for he was clever and intelligent , and glad to be employed in any errand in the town ; and though spurning the remonstrances of Susan , given as they were -- though very reasonable in themselves , with ill-timed and powerless warmth , was beginning to be influenced by Fanny 's services , and gentle persuasions ; and she found that the best of the three younger ones was gone in him ; Tom and Charles being as least as many years as they were his juniors distant from that age of feeling and reason , which might suggest the expediency of making friends , and of endeavouring to be less disagreeable . 
Her continual disagreements with her mother , her rash squabbles with Tom and Charles , and petulance with Betsey , were at least so distressing to Fanny , that though admitting they were by no means without provocation , she feared the disposition that could push them to such length , must be far from amiable , and from affording any repose to herself . 
Such was the home which was to put Mansfield out of her head , and teach her to think of her cousin Edmund with moderated feelings . 
On the contrary , she could think of nothing but Mansfield , its beloved inmates , its happy ways . 
Every thing where she now was , was in full contrast to it . 
The elegance , propriety , regularity , harmony -- and perhaps , above all , the peace and tranquillity of Mansfield , were brought to her remembrance every hour of the day , by the prevalence of every thing opposite to them here . 
The living in incessant noise was to a frame and temper , delicate and nervous like Fanny 's , an evil which no superadded elegance or harmony , could have entirely atoned for . 
In a review of the two houses , as they appeared to her before the end of a week , Fanny was tempted to apply to them Dr. Johnson 's celebrated judgment as to matrimony and celibacy , and say , that though Mansfield Park , might have some pains , Portsmouth could have no pleasures . 
Fanny was right enough in not expecting to hear from Miss Crawford now , at the rapid rate in which their correspondence had begun ; Mary 's next letter was after a decidedly longer interval than the last , but she was not right in supposing that such an interval would be felt a great relief to herself . 
But there he is , and , by the bye , his absence may sufficiently account for any remissness of his sister 's in writing , for there has been no ` well Mary , when do you write to Fanny ? 
-- is not it time for you to write to Fanny ? ' 
There was no recovering the complexion from the moment that I spoke of ` Fanny , ' and spoke of her as a sister should . 
Adieu , my dear sweet Fanny , this is a long letter from London ; write me a pretty one in reply to gladden Henry 's eyes , when he comes back -- and send me an account of all the dashing young captains whom you disdain for his sake . '' 
The first solid consolation which Fanny received for the evils of home , the first which her judgment could entirely approve , and which gave any promise of durability , was in a better knowledge of Susan , and a hope of being of service to her . 
That a girl of fourteen , acting only on her own unassisted reason , should err in the method of reform was not wonderful ; and Fanny soon became more disposed to admire the natural light of the mind which could so early distinguish justly , than to censure severely , the faults of conduct to which it led . 
That her manner was wrong , however , at times very wrong -- her measures often ill-chosen and ill-timed , and her looks and language very often indefensible , Fanny could not cease to feel ; but she began to hope they might be rectified . 
Susan , she found , looked up to her and wished for her good opinion ; and new as any thing like an office of authority was to Fanny , new as it was to imagine herself capable of guiding or informing any one , she did resolve to give occasional hints to Susan , and endeavour to exercise for her advantage the juster notions of what was due to every body , and what would be wisest for herself , which her own more favoured education had fixed in her . 
Betsey handsomely declaring that now she had got one so much prettier herself , she should never want that again -- and no reproach seemed conveyed to the equally satisfied mother , which Fanny had almost feared to be impossible . 
She acknowledged her fears , blamed herself for having contended so warmly , and from that hour Fanny understanding the worth of her disposition , and perceiving how fully she was inclined to seek her good opinion and refer to her judgment , began to feel again the blessing of affection , and to entertain the hope of being useful to a mind so much in need of help , and so much deserving it . 
By sitting together up stairs , they avoided a great deal of the disturbance of the house ; Fanny had peace , and Susan learnt to think it no misfortune to be quietly employed . 
They sat without a fire ; but that was a privation familiar even to Fanny , and she suffered the less because reminded by it of the east-room . 
By degrees the girls came to spend the chief of the morning up stairs , at first only in working and talking ; but after a few days , the remembrance of the said books grew so potent and stimulative , that Fanny found it impossible not to try for books again . 
There were none in her father 's house ; but wealth is luxurious and daring -- and some of her 's found its way to a circulating library . 
She became a subscriber -- amazed at being anything in propria persona , amazed at her own doings in every way ; to be a renter , a chuser of books ! 
And to be having any one 's improvement in view in her choice ! 
Susan had read nothing , and Fanny longed to give her a share in her own first pleasures , and inspire a taste for the biography and poetry which she delighted in herself . 
In this occupation she hoped , moreover , to bury some of the recollections of Mansfield which were too apt to seize her mind if her fingers only were busy ; and especially at this time , hoped it might be useful in diverting her thoughts from pursuing Edmund to London , whither , on the authority of her aunt 's last letter , she knew he was gone . 
She had no doubt of what would ensue . 
The promised notification was hanging over her head . 
A week was gone since Edmund might be supposed in town , and Fanny had heard nothing of him . 
There were three different conclusions to be drawn from his silence , between which her mind was in fluctuation ; each of them at times being held the most probable . 
One morning about this time , Fanny having now been nearly four weeks from Mansfield -- a point which she never failed to think over and calculate every day -- as she and Susan were preparing to remove as usual up stairs , they were stopt by the knock of a visitor , whom they felt they could not avoid from Rebecca 's alertness in going to the door , a duty which always interested her beyond any other . 
It was a gentleman 's voice ; it was a voice that Fanny was just turning pale about , when Mr. Crawford walked into the room . 
Good sense , like her 's , will always act when really called upon ; and she found that she had been able to name him to her mother , and recal her remembrance of the name , as that of `` William 's friend , '' though she could not previously have believed herself capable of uttering a syllable at such a moment . 
Having introduced him , however , and being all re-seated , the terrors that occurred of what this visit might lead to , were overpowering , and she fancied herself on the point of fainting away . 
While trying to keep herself alive , their visitor , who had at first approached her with as animated a countenance as ever , was wisely and kindly keeping his eyes away , and giving her time to recover , while he devoted himself entirely to her mother , addressing her , and attending to her with the utmost politeness and propriety , at the same time with a degree of friendliness -- of interest at least -- which was making his manner perfect . 
Fanny was just recovered enough to feel that she could not regret it ; for to her many other sources of uneasiness was added , the severe one of shame for the home in which he found her . 
She might scold herself for the weakness , but there was no scolding it away . 
She was ashamed , and she would have been yet more ashamed of her father , than of all the rest . 
By the time he had given all this information , it was not unreasonable to suppose , that Fanny might be looked at and spoken to ; and she was tolerably able to bear his eye , and hear that he had spent half an hour with his sister , the evening before his leaving London ; that she had sent her best and kindest love , but had had no time for writing ; that he thought himself lucky in seeing Mary for even half an hour , having spent scarcely twenty-four hours in London after his return from Norfolk , before he set off again ; that her cousin Edmund was in town , had been in town he understood , a few days , that he had not seen him , himself , but that he was well , had left them all well at Mansfield , and was to dine , as yesterday , with the Frasers . 
Fanny listened collectedly even to the last-mentioned circumstance ; nay , it seemed a relief to her worn mind to be at any certainty ; and the words , `` then by this time it is all settled , '' passed internally , without more evidence of emotion than a faint blush . 
After talking a little more about Mansfield , a subject in which her interest was most apparent , Crawford began to hint at the expediency of an early walk ; -- `` It was a lovely morning , and at that season of the year a fine morning so often turned off , that it was wisest for everybody not to delay their exercise ; '' and such hints producing nothing , he soon proceeded to a positive recommendation to Mrs. Price and her daughters , to take their walk without loss of time . 
-- And the consequence was , that Fanny , strange as it was -- strange , awkward , and distressing -- found herself and Susan , within ten minutes , walking towards the High Street , with Mr. Crawford . 
He stopt ; and , ungentlemanlike as he looked , Fanny was obliged to introduce him to Mr. Crawford . 
She could not have a doubt of the manner in which Mr. Crawford must be struck . 
He must soon give her up , and cease to have the smallest inclination for the match ; and yet , though she had been so much wanting his affection to be cured , this was a sort of cure that would be almost as bad as the complaint ; and I believe , there is scarcely a young lady in the united kingdoms , who would not rather put up with the misfortune of being sought by a clever , agreeable man , than have him driven away by the vulgarity of her nearest relations . 
Mr. Crawford probably could not regard his future father-in-law with any idea of taking him for a model in dress ; but -LRB- as Fanny instantly , and to her great relief discerned -RRB- , her father was a very different man , a very different Mr. Price in his behaviour to this most highly-respected stranger , from what he was in his own family at home . 
Such was his instinctive compliment to the good manners of Mr. Crawford ; and be the consequence what it might , Fanny 's immediate feelings were infinitely soothed . 
The conclusion of the two gentlemen 's civilities was an offer of Mr. Price 's to take Mr. Crawford into the dock-yard , which Mr. Crawford , desirous of accepting as a favour , what was intended as such , though he had seen the dockyard again and again ; and hoping to be so much the longer with Fanny , was very gratefully disposed to avail himself of , if the Miss Prices were not afraid of the fatigue ; and , as it was somehow or other ascertained , or inferred , or at least acted upon , that they were not at all afraid , to the dock-yard they were all to go ; and , but for Mr. Crawford , Mr. Price would have turned thither directly , without the smallest consideration for his daughter 's errands in the High Street . 
He took care , however , that they should be allowed to go to the shops they came out expressly to visit ; and it did not delay them long , for Fanny could so little bear to excite impatience , or be waited for , that before the gentlemen , as they stood at the door , could do more than begin upon the last naval regulations , or settle the number of three deckers now in commission , their companions were ready to proceed . 
Once fairly in the dock-yard , he began to reckon upon some happy intercourse with Fanny , as they were very soon joined by a brother lounger of Mr. Price 's , who was come to take his daily survey of how things went on , and who must prove a far more worthy companion than himself ; and after a time the two officers seemed very well satisfied in going about together and discussing matters of equal and neverfailing interest , while the young people sat down upon some timbers in the yard , or found a seat on board a vessel in the stocks , which they all went to look at . 
Fanny was most conveniently in want of rest . 
He must content himself with being only generally agreeable , and letting Susan have her share of entertainment , with the indulgence , now and then , of a look or hint for the better informed and conscious Fanny . 
For Fanny , somewhat more was related than the accidental agreeableness of the parties he had been in . 
This was aimed , and well aimed , at Fanny . 
Fanny was doubly silenced here ; though when the moment was passed , could regret that she had not forced herself into the acknowledged comprehension of one half of his meaning , and encouraged him to say something more of his sister and Edmund . 
When Mr. Price and his friend had seen all that they wished , or had time for , the others were ready to return ; and in the course of their walk back , Mr. Crawford contrived a minute 's privacy for telling Fanny that his only business in Portsmouth was to see her , that he was come down for a couple of days on her account and her 's only , and because he could not endure a longer total separation . 
She was sorry , really sorry ; and yet , in spite of this and the two or three other things which she wished he had not said , she thought him altogether improved since she had seen him ; he was much more gentle , obliging , and attentive to other people 's feelings than he had ever been at Mansfield ; she had never seen him so agreeable -- so near being agreeable ; his behaviour to her father could not offend , and there was something particularly kind and proper in the notice he took of Susan . 
Her father asked him to do them the honour of taking his mutton with them , and Fanny had time for only one thrill of horror , before he declared himself prevented by a prior engagement . 
He was engaged to dinner already both for that day and the next , he had met with some acquaintance at the Crown who would not be denied ; he should have the honour , however , of waiting on them again on the morrow , & c.and so they parted -- Fanny in a state of actual felicity from escaping so horrible an evil ! 
Rebecca 's cookery and Rebecca 's waiting , and Betsey 's eating at table without restraint , and pulling every thing about as she chose , were what Fanny herself was not yet enough inured to , for her often to make a tolerable meal . 
She was nice only from natural delicacy , but he had been brought up in a school of luxury and epicurism . 
Sunday always brought this comfort to Fanny , and on this Sunday she felt it more than ever . 
Her poor mother now , did not look so very unworthy of being Lady Bertram 's sister as she was but too apt to look . 
Thither they now went ; Mr. Crawford most happy to consider the Miss Prices as his peculiar charge ; and before they had been there long -- somehow or other -- there was no saying how -- Fanny could not have believed it -- but he was walking between them with an arm of each under his , and she did not know how to prevent or put an end to it . 
It made her uncomfortable for a time -- but yet there were enjoyments in the day and in the view which would be felt . 
It was really March ; but it was April in its mild air , brisk soft wind , and bright sun , occasionally clouded for a minute ; and every thing looked so beautiful under the influence of such a sky , the effects of the shadows pursuing each other , on the ships at Spithead and the island beyond , with the ever-varying hues of the sea now at high water , dancing in its glee and dashing against the ramparts with so fine a sound , produced altogether such a combination of charms for Fanny , as made her gradually almost careless of the circumstances under which she felt them . 
Fanny was beginning to feel the effect of being debarred from her usual , regular exercise ; she had lost ground as to health since her being in Portsmouth , and but for Mr. Crawford and the beauty of the weather , would soon have been knocked up now . 
They often stopt with the same sentiment and taste , leaning against the wall , some minutes , to look and admire ; and considering he was not Edmund , Fanny could not but allow that he was sufficiently open to the charms of nature , and very well able to express his admiration . 
She had a few tender reveries now and then , which he could sometimes take advantage of , to look in her face without detection ; and the result of these looks was , that though as bewitching as ever , her face was less blooming than it ought to be . 
-- She said she was very well , and did not like to be supposed otherwise ; but take it all in all , he was convinced that her present residence could not be comfortable , and , therefore , could not be salutary for her , and he was growging anxious for her being again at Mansfield , where her own happiness , and his in seeing her , must be so much greater . 
-- If , therefore , -LRB- turning again to Fanny -RRB- you find yourself growing unwell , and any difficulties arise about your returning to Mansfield -- without waiting for the two months to be ended -- that must not be regarded as of any consequence , if you feel yourself at all less strong , or comfortable than usual , and will only let my sister know it , give her only the slightest hint , she and I will immediately come down , and take you back to Mansfield . 
Fanny thanked him , but tried to laugh it off . 
Fanny thanked him again , but was affected and distressed to a degree that made it impossible for her to say much , or even to be certain of what she ought to say . 
`` I wish you were not so tired , '' said he , still detaining Fanny after all the others were in the house ; `` I wish I left you in stronger health . 
`` Certainly ; and if he is lazy or negligent , I will write his excuses myself -- '' He could say no more , for Fanny would be no longer detained . 
He pressed her hand , looked at her , and was gone . 
He went to while away the next three hours as he could , with his other acquaintance , till the best dinner that a capital inn afforded , was ready for their enjoyment , and she turned in to her more simple one immediately . 
Their general fare bore a very different character ; and could he have suspected how many privations , besides that of exercise , she endured in her father 's house , he would have wondered that her looks were not much more affected than he found them . 
She was so little equal to Rebecca 's puddings , and Rebecca 's hashes , brought to table as they all were , with such accompaniments of half-cleaned plates , and not half-cleaned knives and forks , that she was very often constrained to defer her heartiest meal , till she could send her brothers in the evening for biscuits and buns . 
Fanny was out of spirits all the rest of the day . 
Though tolerably secure of not seeing Mr. Crawford again , she could not help being low . 
It was parting with somebody of the nature of a friend ; and though in one light glad to have him gone , it seemed as if she was now deserted by everybody ; it was a sort of renewed separation from Mansfield ; and she could not think of his returning to tow , and being frequently with Mary and Edmund , without feelings so near akin to envy , as made her hate herself for having them . 
It was presumed that Mr. Crawford was travelling back to London , on the morrow , for nothing more was seen of him at Mr. Price 's ; and two days afterwards , it was a fact ascertained to Fanny by the following letter from his sister , opened and read by her , on another account , with the most anxious curiosity : -- `` I have to inform you , my dearest Fanny , that Henry has been down to Portsmouth to see you ; that he had a delightful walk with you to the Dockyard last Saturday , and one still more to be dwelt on the next day , on the ramparts ; when the balmy air , the sparkling sea ; and your sweet looks and conversation were altogether in the most delicious harmony , and afforded sensations which are to raise ecstacy even in retrospect . 
My dear , dear Fanny , if I had you here , how I would talk to you ! 
This was Fanny 's most frequent expectation . 
-- that she thought must be impossible . 
Fanny was ashamed of her . 
Those parts of the letter which related only to Mr. Crawford and herself , touched her in comparison , slightly . 
Whether Mr. Crawford went into Norfolk before or after the 14th , was certainly no concern of her 's , though , every thing considered , she thought he would go without delay . 
Susan was growing very fond of her , and though without any of the early delight in books , which had been so strong in Fanny , with a disposition much less inclined to sedentary pursuits , or to information for information 's sake , she had so strong a desire of not appearing ignorant , as with a good clear understanding , made her a most attentive , profitable , thankful pupil . 
Fanny was her oracle . 
Fanny 's explanations and remarks were a most important addition to every essay , or every chapter of history . 
What Fanny told her of former times , dwelt more on her mind than the pages of Goldsmith ; and she paid her sister the compliment of preferring her style to that of any printed author . 
Susan , who had an innate taste for the genteel and well-appointed , was eager to hear , and Fanny could not but indulge herself in dwelling on so beloved a theme . 
She hoped it was not wrong ; though after a time , Susan 's very great admiration of every thing said or done in her uncle 's house , and earnest longing to go into Northamptonshire , seemed almost to blame her for exciting feelings which could not be gratified . 
Poor Susan was very little better fitted for home than her elder sister ; and as Fanny grew thoroughly to understand this , she began to feel that when her own release from Portsmouth came , her happiness would have a material drawback in leaving Susan behind . 
Seven weeks of the two months were very nearly gone , when the one letter , the letter from Edmund so long expected , was put into Fanny 's hands . 
As she opened and saw its length she prepared herself for a minute detail of happiness and a profusion of love and praise towards the fortunate creature , who was now mistress of his fate . 
`` My dear Fanny , `` Excuse me that I have not written before . 
I can not give her up , Fanny . 
You have my thoughts exactly as they arise , my dear Fanny ; perhaps they are some times contradictory , but it will not be a less faithful picture of my mind . 
I can not give her up . 
The loss of Mary I must consider as comprehending the loss of Crawford and of Fanny . 
This long letter , full of my own concerns alone , will be enough to tire even the friendship of a Fanny . 
Your 's ever , my dearest Fanny . '' 
`` I never will -- no , I certainly never will wish for a letter again , '' was Fanny 's secret declaration , as she finished this . 
Fanny checked the tendency of these thoughts as well as she could , but she was within half a minute of starting the idea , that Sir Thomas was quite unkind , both to her aunt and to herself . 
She was almost vexed into displeasure , and anger , against Edmund . 
`` There is no good in this delay , '' said she . 
-- She looked over the letter again . 
She loves nobody but herself and her brother . 
Her friends leading her astray for years ! 
She is quite as likely to have led them astray . 
They have all , perhaps , been corrupting one another ; but if they are so much fonder of her than she is of them , she is the less likely to have been hurt , except by their flattery . 
-- The loss of Mary , I must consider as comprehending the loss of Crawford and Fanny . 
Such sensations , however , were too near a kin to resentment to be long guiding Fanny 's soliloquies . 
Within a few days from the receipt of Edmund 's letter , Fanny had one from her aunt , beginning thus : -- `` My dear Fanny , `` I take up my pen to communicate some very alarming intelligence , which I make no doubt will give you much concern . '' 
This was a great deal better than to have to take up the pen to acquaint her with all the particulars of the Grant 's intended journey , for the present intelligence was of a nature of promise occupation for the pen for many days to come , being no less than the dangerous illness of her eldest son , of which they had received notice by express , a few hours before . 
As I have little doubt of your feeling for us , my dear Fanny , under these distressing circumstances , I will write again very soon . '' 
Fanny 's feelings on the occasion were indeed considerably more warm and genuine than her aunt 's style of writing . 
Her aunt did not neglect her ; she wrote again and again ; they were receiving frequent accounts from Edmund , and these accounts were as regularly transmitted to Fanny , in the same diffuse style , and the same medley of trusts , hopes , and fears , all following and producing each other at hap-hazard . 
Then , a letter which she had been previously preparing for Fanny , was finished in a different style , in the language of real fecling and alarm ; then , she wrote as she might have spoken . 
`` He is just come , my dear Fanny , and is taken up stairs ; and I am so shocked to see him , that I do not know what to do . 
Three or four Prices might have been swept away , any or all , except Fanny and William , and Lady Bertram would have thought little about it ; or perhaps might have caught from Mrs. Norris 's lips the cant of its being a very happy thing , and a great blessing to their poor dear sister Price to have them so well provided for . 
The fever was subdued ; the fever had been his complaint , of course he would soon be well again ; Lady Bertram could think nothing less , and Fanny shared her aunt 's security , till she received a few lines from Edmund , written purposely to give her a clearer idea of his brother 's situation , and acquaint her with the apprehensions which he and his father had imbibed from the physician , with respect to some strong hectic symptoms , which seemed to seize the frame on the departure of the fever . 
They judged it best that Lady Bertram should not be harassed by alarms which , it was to be hoped , would prove unfounded ; but there was no reason why Fanny should not know the truth . 
A very few lines from Edmund shewed her the patient and the sick room in a juster and stronger light than all Lady Bertram 's sheets of paper could do . 
Fanny would certainly believe him so at least , and must find that her estimation of him was higher than ever when he appeared as the attendant , supporter , cheerer of a suffering brother . 
There was not only the debility of recent illness to assist ; there was also , as she now learnt , nerves much affected , spirits much depressed to calm and raise ; and her own imagination added that there must be a mind to be properly guided . 
The family were not consumptive , and she was more inclined to hope than fear for her cousin -- except when she thought of Miss Crawford -- but Miss Crawford gave her the idea of being the child of good luck , and to her selfishness and vanity it would be good luck to have Edmund the only son . 
A line occasionally added by Edmund to his mother 's letter was enough for Fanny 's information . 
Easter came -- particularly late this year , as Fanny had most sorrowfully considered , on first learning that she had no chance of leaving Portsmouth till after it . 
It came , and she had yet heard nothing of her return -- nothing even of the going to London , which was to precede her return . 
Her aunt often expressed a wish for her , but there was no notice , no message from the uncle on whom all depended . 
She supposed he could not yet leave his son , but it was a cruel , a terrible delay to her . 
The end of April was coming on ; it would soon be almost three months instead of two that she had been absent from them all , and that her days had been passing in a state of penance , which she loved them too well to hope they would thoroughly understand ; -- and who could yet say when there might be leisure to think of , or fetch her ? 
Her eagerness , her impatience , her longings to be with them , were such as to bring a line or two of Cowper 's Tirocinium for ever before her . 
`` With what intense desire she wants her home , '' was continually on her tongue , as the truest description of a yearning which she could not suppose any school-boy 's bosom to feel more keenly . 
When she had been coming to Portsmouth , she had loved to call it her home , had been fond of saying that she was going home ; the word had been very dear to her ; and so it still was , but it must be applied to Mansfield . 
They had been long so arranged in the indulgence of her secret meditations ; and nothing was more consolatory to her than to find her aunt using the same language . 
-- I trust and hope , and sincerely wish you may never be absent from home so long again '' -- were most delightful sentences to her . 
Still , however , it was her private regale . 
-- Delicacy to her parents made her careful not to betray such a preference of her uncle 's house : it was always , `` when I go back into Northamptonshire , or when I return to Mansfield , I shall do so and so . '' 
-- For a great while it was so ; but at last the longing grew stronger , it overthrew caution , and she found herself talking of what she should do when she went home , before she was aware . 
-- She reproached herself , coloured and looked fearfully towards her Father and Mother . 
She need not have been uneasy . 
There was no sign of displeasure , or even of hearing her . 
She was as welcome to wish herself there , as to be there . 
It was sad to Fanny to lose all the pleasures of spring . 
Fanny was disposed to think the influence of London very much at war with all respectable attachments . 
It was so long since Fanny had had any letter from her , that she had some reason to think lightly of the friendship which had been so dwelt on . 
-- It was weeks since she had heard any thing of Miss Crawford or of her other connections in town , except through Mansfield , and she was beginning to suppose that she might never know whether Mr. Crawford had gone into Norfolk again or not , till they met , and might never hear from his sister any more this spring , when the following letter was received to revive old , and create some new sensations . 
`` Forgive me , my dear Fanny , as soon as you can , for my long silence , and behave as if you could forgive me directly . 
Fanny , Fanny , I see you smile , and look cunning , but upon my honour , I never bribed a physician in my life . 
With real affection , Fanny , like mine , more might be overlooked . 
Dear Fanny , write directly , and tell us to come . 
Fanny 's disgust at the greater part of this letter , with her extreme reluctance to bring the writer of it and her cousin Edmund together , would have made her -LRB- as she felt -RRB- , incapable of judging impartially whether the concluding offer might be accepted or not . 
To be finding herself , perhaps , within three days , transported to Mansfield , was an image of the greatest felicity -- but it would have been a material drawback , to be owing such felicity to persons in whose feelings and conduct , at the present moment , she saw so much to condemn ; the sister 's feelings -- the brother 's conduct -- her cold-hearted ambition -- his thoughtless vanity . 
As Fanny could not doubt that her answer was conveying a real disappointment , she was rather in expectation , from her knowledge of Miss Crawford 's temper , of being urged again ; and though no second letter arrived for the space of a week , she had still the same feeling when it did come . 
On receiving it , she could instantly decide on its containing little writing , and was persuaded of its having the air of a letter of haste and business . 
Its object was unquestionable ; and two moments were enough to start the probability of its being merely to give her notice that they should be in Portsmouth that very day , and to throw her into all the agitation of doubting what she ought to do in such a case . 
If two moments , however , can surround with difficulties , a third can disperse them ; and before she had opened the letter , the possibility of Mr. and Miss Crawford 's having applied to her uncle and obtained his permission , was giving her ease . 
`` A most scandalous , ill-natured rumour has just reached me , and I write , dear Fanny , to warn you against giving the least credit to it , should it spread into the country . 
`` Your 's , & c. '' Fanny stood aghast . 
As no scandalous , ill-natured rumour had reached her , it was impossible for her to understand much of this strange letter . 
She could only perceive that it must relate to Wimpole Street and Mr. Crawford , and only conjecture that something very imprudent had just occurred in that quarter to draw the notice of the world , and to excite her jealousy , in Miss Crawford 's apprehension , if she heard it . 
Fanny was disappointed . 
She could still think of little else all the morning ; but when her father came back in the afternoon with the daily newspaper as usual , she was so far from expecting any elucidation through such a channel , that the subject was for a moment out of her head . 
She was deep in other musing . 
The remembrance of her first evening in that room , of her father and his newspaper came across her . 
She felt that she had , indeed , been three months there ; and the sun 's rays falling strongly into the parlour , instead of cheering , made her still more melancholy ; for sun shine appeared to her a totally different thing in a town and in the country . 
She sat in a blaze of oppressive heat , in a cloud of moving dust ; and her eyes could only wander from the walls marked by her father 's head , to the table cut and knotched by her brothers , where stood the tea-board never thoroughly cleaned , the cups and saucers wiped in streaks , the milk a mixture of motes floating in thin blue , and the bread and butter growing every minute more greasy than even Rebecca 's hands had first produced it . 
Her father read his newspaper , and her mother lamented over the ragged carpet as usual , while the tea was in preparation -- and wished Rebecca would mend it ; and Fanny was first roused by his calling out to her , after humphing and considering over a particular paragraph -- What 's the name of your great cousins in town , Fan ? '' 
A moment 's recollection enabled her to say , `` Rushworth , Sir . '' 
Fanny read to herself that `` it was with infinite concern the newspaper had to announce to the world , a matrimonial fracas in the family of Mr. R. of Wimpole Street ; the beautiful Mrs. R. whose name had not long been enrolled in the lists of hymen , and who had promised to become so brilliant a leader in the fashionable world , having quitted her husband 's roof in company with the well known and captivating Mr. C. the intimate friend and associate of Mr. R. and it was not known , even to the editor of the newspaper , whither they were gone . '' 
`` It is a mistake , Sir , '' said Fanny instantly ; `` it must be a mistake -- it can not be true -- it must mean some other people . '' 
She spoke from the instinctive wish of delaying shame , she spoke with a resolution which sprung from despair , for she spoke what she did not , could not believe herself . 
It had been the shock of conviction as she read . 
The truth rushed on her ; and how she could have spoken at all , how she could even have breathed -- was afterwards matter of wonder to herself . 
Mr. Price cared too little about the report , to make her much answer . 
The horror of a mind like Fanny 's , as it received the conviction of such guilt , and began to take in some part of the misery that must ensue , can hardly be described . 
At first , it was a sort of stupefaction ; but every moment was quickening her perception of the horrible evil . 
She could not doubt ; she dared not indulge a hope of the paragraph being false . 
Fanny seemed to herself never to have been shocked before . 
She passed only from feelings of sickness to shudderings of horror ; and from hot fits of fever to cold . 
The event was so-shocking , that there were moments even when her heart revolted from it as impossible -- when she thought it could not be . 
`` Dear Fanny , You know our present wretchedness . 
Your 's , & c. '' Never had Fanny more wanted a cordial . 
Never had she felt such a one as this letter contained . 
She was , she felt she was , in the greatest danger of being exquisitely happy , while so many were miserable . 
The evil which brought such good to her ! 
She dreaded lest she should learn to be insensible of it . 
The girls heard his entrance from above , and Fanny went down . 
The idea of immediately seeing him , with the knowledge of what he must be suffering , brought back all her own first feelings . 
He so near her , and in misery . 
She was ready to sink , as she entered the parlour . 
He was alone , and met her intantly ; and she found herself pressed to his heart with only these words , just articulate , `` My Fanny -- my only sister -- my only comfort now . '' 
She could say nothing ; nor for some minutes could he say more . '' 
It was settled that he should order the carriage to the door in half an hour ; Fanny answered for their having breakfasted , and being quite ready in half an hour . 
He was gone again , glad to get away even from Fanny . 
Fanny 's last meal in her father 's house was in character with her first ; she was dismissed from it as hospitably as she had been welcomed . 
How her heart swelled with joy and gratitude , as she passed the barriers of Portsmouth , and how Susan 's face wore its broadest smiles , may be easily conceived . 
Edmund 's deep sighs often reached Fanny . 
Fanny watched him with never-failing solicitude , and sometimes catching his eye , received an affectionate smile , which comforted her ; but the first day 's journey passed without her hearning a word from him on the subjects that were weighing him down . 
Just before their setting out from Oxford , while Susan was stationed at a window , in eager observation of the departure of a large family from the inn , the other two were standing by the fire ; and Edmund , particularly struck by the alteration in Fanny 's looks , and from his ignorance of the daily evils of her father 's house , attributing an undue share of the change , attributing all to the recent event , took her hand , and said in a low , but very expressive tone , `` No wonder -- you must feel it -- you must suffer . 
But your 's -- your regard was new compared with -- Fanny , think of me ! '' 
Fanny began to dread the meeting with her aunts and Tom , under so dreadful a humiliation ; and Susan to feel with some anxiety , that all her best manners , all her lately-acquired knowledge of what was practised here , was on the point of being called into action . 
Fanny had been every where awake to the difference of the country since February ; but , when they entered the Park , her perceptions and her pleasures were of the keenest sort . 
It was three months , full three months , since her quitting it ; and the change was from winter to summer . 
Her eye fell every where on lawns and plantations of the freshest green ; and the trees , though not fully clothed , were in that delightful state , when farther beauty is known to be at hand , and when , while much is actually given to the sight , more yet remains for the imagination . 
Her enjoyment , however , was for herself alone . 
She looked at him , but he was leaning back , sunk in a deeper gloom than ever , and with eyes closed as if the view of cheerfulness oppressed him , and the lovely scenes of home must be shut out . 
It made her melancholy again ; and the knowledge of what must be enduring there , invested even the house , modern , airy , and well situated as it was , with a melancholy aspect . 
By one of the suffering party within , they were expected with such impatience as she had never known before . 
Fanny had scarcely passed the solemnlooking servants , when Lady Bertram came from the drawing room to meet her ; came with no indolent step ; and , falling on her neck , said , `` Dear Fanny ! 
Edmund was almost as welcome to his brother , as Fanny to her aunt ; but Mrs. Norris , instead of having comfort from either , was but the more irritated by the sight of the person whom , in the blindness of her anger , she could have charged as the daemon of the piece . 
Had Fanny accepted Mr. Crawford , this could not have happened . 
Lady Bertram could not give her much time , or many words , but she felt her , as Fanny 's sister , to have a claim at Mansfield , and was ready to kiss and like her ; and Susan was more than satisfied , for she came perfectly aware , that nothing but ill humour was to be expected from Aunt Norris ; and was so provided with happiness , so strong in that best of blessings , an escape from many certain evils , that she could have stood against a great deal more indifference than she met with from the others . 
She was now left a good deal to herself , to get acquainted with the house and grounds as she could , and spent her days very happily in so doing , while those who might otherwise have attended to her , were shut up , or wholly occupied each with the person quite dependant on them , at this time , for every thing like comfort ; Edmund trying to bury his own feelings in exertions for the relief of his brother 's , and Fanny devoted to her aunt Bertram , returning to every former office , with more than former zeal , and thinking she could never do enough for one who seemed so much to want her . 
To talk over the dreadful business with Fanny , talk and lament , was all Lady Bertram 's consolation . 
Lady Bertram did not think deeply , but , guided by Sir Thomas , she thought justly on all important points ; and she saw , therefore , in all its enormity , what had happened , and neither endeavoured herself , nor required Fanny to advise her , to think little of guilt and infamy . 
Her affections were not acute , nor was her mind tenacious . 
After a time , Fanny found it not impossible to direct her thoughts to other subjects , and revive some interest in the usual occupations ; but whenever Lady Bertram was fixed on the event , she could see it only in one light , as comprehending the loss of a daughter , and a disgrace never to be wiped off . 
Fanny learnt from her , all the particulars which had yet transpired . 
Her aunt was no very methodical narrator ; but with the help of some letters to and from Sir Thomas , and what she already knew herself , and could reasonably combine , she was soon able to understand quite as much as she wished of the circumstances attending the story . 
His having been in the same neighbourhood , Fanny already knew . 
His present state , Fanny could hardly bear to think of . 
Fanny felt for him most acutely . 
His displeasure against herself she trusted , reasoning differently from Mrs. Norris , would now be done away . 
He was aware of what Edmund must be suffering on his own behalf in addition to all the rest , when they were in town ; he had seen or conjectured his feelings , and having reason to think that one interview with Miss Crawford had taken place , from which Edmund derived only increased distress , had been as anxious on that account as on others , to get him out of town , and had engaged him in taking Fanny home to her aunt , with a view to his relief and benefit , no less than theirs . 
Fanny was not in the secret of her uncle 's feelings , Sir Thomas not in the secret of Miss Crawford 's character . 
That Edmund must be for ever divided from Miss Crawford , did not admit of a doubt with Fanny ; and yet , till she knew that he felt the same , her own conviction was insufficient . 
She thought he did , but she wanted to be assured of it . 
If he would now speak to her with the unreserve which had sometimes been too much for her before , it would be most consoling ; but that she found was not to be . 
She seldom saw him -- never alone -- he probably avoided being alone with her . 
How Fanny listened , with what curiosity and concern , what pain and what delight , how the agitation of his voice was watched , and how carefully her own eyes were fixed on any object but himself , may be imagined . 
He had received a note from Lady Stornaway to beg him to call ; and regarding it as what was meant to be the last , last interview of friendship , and investing her with all the feelings of shame and wretchedness which Crawford 's sister ought to have known , he had gone to her in such a state of mind , so softened , so devoted , as made it for a few moments impossible to Fanny 's fears , that it should be the last . 
She had met him , he said , with a serious -- certainly a serious -- even an agitated air ; but before he had been able to speak one intelligible sentence , she had introduced the subject in a manner which he owned had shocked him . 
`` I heard you were in town , '' said she -- `` I wanted to see you . 
She felt reproved . 
With a graver look and voice she then added -- ` I do not mean to defend Henry at your sister 's expence . ' 
So she began -- but how she went on , Fanny , is not fit -- is hardly fit to be repeated to you . 
I can not recall all her words . 
She reprobated her brother 's folly in being drawn on by a woman whom he had never cared for , to do what must lose him the woman he adored ; but still more the folly of -- poor Maria , in sacrificing such a situation , plunging into such difficulties , under the idea of being really loved by a man who had long ago made his indifference clear . 
For where , Fanny , shall we find a woman whom nature had so richly endowed ? 
She saw it only as folly , and that folly stamped only by exposure . 
The want of common discretion , of caution -- his going down to Richmond for the whole time of her being at Twickenham -- her putting herself in the power of a servant ; -- it was the detection in short -- Oh ! 
Fanny , it was the detection , not the offence which she reprobated . 
It was the imprudence which had brought things to extremity , and obliged her brother to give up every dearer plan , in order to fly with her . '' 
-- `` And what , '' said Fanny , -LRB- believing herself required to speak -RRB- , `` what could you say ? '' 
She went on , began to talk of you ; -- yes ; then she began to talk of you , regretting , as well she might , the loss of such a -- . 
There she spoke very rationally . 
But she always has done justice to you . 
` He has thrown away , ' said she , ` such a woman as he will never see again . 
-- My dearest Fanny , I am giving you I hope more pleasure than pain by this retrospect of what might have been -- but what never can be now . 
She spoke of you with high praise and warm affection ; yet , even here there was alloy , a dash of evil -- for in the midst of it she could exclaim `` Why would not she have him ? 
It is all her fault . 
-- I shall never forgive her . 
Had she accepted him as she ought , they might now have been on the point of marriage , and Henry would have been too happy and too busy to want any other object . 
said Fanny -- `` quite cruel ! 
She would not voluntarily give unnecessary pain to any one , and though I may deceive myself , I can not but think that for me , for my feelings , she would -- Her 's are faults of principle , Fanny , of blunted delicacy and a corrupted , vitiated mind . 
She spoke of it , Fanny , with a steadier voice than I can . '' 
`` We must persuade Henry to marry her , '' said she , `` and what with honour , and the certainty of having shut himself out for ever from Fanny , I do not despair of it . 
Fanny he must give up . 
After repeating this , Edmund was so much affected , that Fanny , watching him with silent , but most tender concern , was almost sorry that the subject had been entered on at all . 
At last , `` Now , Fanny , '' said he , `` I shall soon have done . 
I have told you the substance of all that she said . 
As soon as I could speak , I replied that I had not supposed it possible , coming in such a state of mind into that house , as I had done , that any thing could occur to make me suffer more , but that she had been inflicting deeper wounds in almost every sentence . 
That , though I had , in the course of our acquaintance , been often sensible of some difference in our opinions , on points too of some moment , it had not entered my imagination to conceive the difference could be such as she had now proved it . 
That the manner in which she treated the dreadful crime committed by her brother and my sister -- -LRB- with whom lay the greater seduction I pretended not to say -RRB- -- but the manner in which she spoke of the crime itself , giving it every reproach but the right , considering its ill consequences only as they were to be braved or overborne by a defiance of decency and impudence in wrong ; and , last of all , and above all , recommending to us a compliance , a compromise , an acquiescence , in the continuance of the sin , on the chance of a marriage which , thinking as I now thought of her brother , should rather be prevented than sought -- all this together most grievously convinced me that I had never understood her before , and that , as far as related to mind , it had been the creature of my own imagination , not Miss Crawford , that I had been too apt to dwell on for many months past . 
I had gone a few steps , Fanny , when I heard the door open behind me . 
` Mr. Bertram , ' said she . 
` Mr. Bertram , ' said she , with a smile -- but it was a smile ill-suited to the conversation that had passed , a saucy playful smile , seeming to invite , in order to subdue , me ; at least , it appeared so to me . 
I thanks you for your patience , Fanny . 
And such was Fanny 's dependance on his words , that for five minutes she thought they had done . 
Fanny , now at liberty to speak openly , felt more than justified in adding to his knowledge of her real character , by some hint of what share his brother 's state of health might be supposed to have in her wish for a complete reconciliation . 
It would have been a vast deal pleasanter to have had her more disinterested in her attachment ; but his vanity was not of a strength to fight long against reason . 
He submitted to believe , that Tom 's illness had influenced her ; only reserving for himself this consoling thought , that considering the many counteractions of opposing habits , she had certainly been more attached to him than could have been expected , and for his sake been more near doing right . 
Fanny thought exactly the same ; and they were also quite agreed in their opinion of the lasting effect , the indelible impression , which such a disappointment must make on his mind . 
Fanny 's friendship was all that he had to cling to . 
My Fanny indeed at this very time , I have the satisfaction of knowing , must have been happy in spite of every thing . 
After wandering about and sitting under trees with Fanny all the summer evenings , he had so well talked his mind into submission , as to be very tolerably cheerful again . 
She had lived with him to be reproached as the ruin of all his happiness in Fanny , and carried away no better consolation in leaving him , than that she had divided them . 
Sir Thomas would not hear of it , and Mrs. Norris 's anger against Fanny was so much the greater , from considering her residence there as the motive . 
She persisted in placing his scruples to her account , though Sir Thomas very solemnly assured her , that had there been no young woman in question , had there been no young person of either sex belonging to him , to be endangered by the society , or hurt by the character of Mrs. Rushworth , he would never have offered so great an insult to the neighbourhood , as to expect it to notice her . 
Not even Fanny had tears for aunt Norris -- not even when she was gone for ever . 
Could he have been satisfied with the conquest of one amiable woman 's affections , could he have found sufficient exultation in overcoming the reluctance , in working himself into the esteem and tenderness of Fanny Price , there would have been every probability of success and felicity for him . 
Her influence over him , had already given him some influence over her . 
Would he have deserved more , there can be no doubt that more would have been obtained ; especially when that marriage had taken place , which would have given him the assistance of her conscience in subduing her first inclination , and brought them very often together . 
Would he have persevered , and uprightly , Fanny must have been his reward -- and a reward very voluntarily bestowed -- within a reasonable period from Edmund 's marrying Mary . 
He saw Mrs. Rushworth , was received by her with a coldness which ought to have been repulsive , and have established apparent indifference between them for ever ; but he was mortified , he could not bear to be thrown off by the woman whose smiles had been so wholly at his command ; he must exert himself to subdue so proud a display of resentment ; it was anger on Fanny 's account ; he must get the better of it , and make Mrs. Rushworth . 
-- To keep Fanny and the Bertrams from a knowledge of what was passing , became his first object . 
-- All that followed was the result of her imprudence ; and he went off with her at last , because he could not help it , regretting Fanny , even at the moment , but regretting her infinitely more , when all the bustle of the intrigue was over , and a very few months had taught him , by the force of contrast , to place a yet higher value on the sweetness of her temper , the purity of her mind , the excellence of her principles . 
Scarcely had he done regretting Mary Crawford , and observing to Fanny how impossible it was that he should ever meet with such another woman , before it began to strike him whether a very different kind of woman might not do just as well -- or a great deal better ; whether Fanny herself were not growing as dear , as important to him in all her smiles , and all her ways , as Mary Crawford had ever been ; and whether it might not be a possible , an hopeful undertaking to persuade her that her warm and sisterly regard for him would be foundation enough for wedded love . 
-- I only intreat every body to believe that exactly at the time when it was quite natural that it should be so , and not a week earlier , Edmund did cease to care about Miss Crawford , and became as anxious to marry Fanny , as Fanny herself could desire . 
Even in the midst of his late infatuation , he had acknowledged Fanny 's mental superiority . 
She was of course only too good for him ; but a nobody minds having what is to good for them , he was very steadily earnest in the pursuit of the blessing , and it was not possible that encouragement from her should be long wanting . 
Timid , anxious , doubting as she was , it was still impossible that such tenderness as her 's , should not , at times , hold out the strongest hope of success , though it remained for a later period to tell him the whole delightful and astonishing truth . 
His happiness in knowing himself to have been so long the beloved of such a heart , must have been great enough to warrant any strength of language in which he could cloathe it to her or to himself ; it must have been a delightful happiness ! 
Sick of ambitious and mercenary connections , prizing more and more the sterling good of principle and temper , and chiefly anxious to bind by the strongest securities all that remained to him of domestic felicity , he had pondered with genuine satisfaction on the more than possibility of the two young friends finding their mutual consolation in each other for all that had occurred of disappointment to either ; and the joyful consent which met Edmund 's application , the high sense of having realized a great acquisition in the promise of Fanny for a daughter , formed just such a contrast with his early opinion on the subject when the poor little girl 's coming had been first agitated , as time is for ever producing between the plans and decisions of mortals , for their own instruction , and their neighbour 's entertainment . 
Fanny was indeed the daughter that he wanted . 
His liberality had a rich repayment , and the general goodness of his intentions by her , deserved it . 
He might have made her childhood happiner ; but it had been an error of judgment only which had given him the appearance of harshness , and deprived him of her early love ; and now , on really knowing each other , their mutual attachment became very strong . 
After settling her at Thornton Lacey with every kind attention to her comfort , the object of almost every day was to see her there , or to get her away from it . 
Selfishly dear as she had long been to Lady Bertram , she could not be parted with willingly by her . 
-- and equally well adapted for it by a readiness of mind , and an inclination for usefulness , as Fanny had been by sweetness of temper , and strong feelings of gratitude . 
First as a comfort to Fanny , then as an auxiliary , and last as her substitute , she was established at Mansfield , with every appearance of equal permanency . 
Her more fearless disposition and happier nerves made every thing easy to her there . 
-- With quickness in understanding , the tempers of those she had to deal with , and no natural timidity to restrain any consequent wishes , she was soon welcome , and useful to all ; and after Fanny 's removal , succeeded so naturally to her influence over the hourly comfort of her aunt , as gradually to become , perhaps , the most beloved of the two . 
-- In her usefulness , in Fanny 's excellence , in William 's continued good conduct , and rising fame , and in the general well-doing and success of the other members of the family , all assisting to advance each other , and doing credit to his countenance and aid , Sir Thomas saw repeated , and for ever repeated reason to rejoice in what he had done for them all , and acknowledge the advantages of early hardship and discipline , and the consciousness of being born to struggle and endure . 
On that event they removed to Mansfield , and the parsonage there , which under each of its two former owners , Fanny had never been able to approach but with some painful sensation of restraint or alarm , soon grew as dear to her heart , and as thoroughly perfect in her eyes , as every thing else , within the view and patronage of Mansfield Park had long been . 
