In conversation with me , but a few days before his exit ; `` There is '' said he , `` but one link in the chain of life , undissevered ; that , my dear Eliza , is my attachment to you . 
In one of these I was introduced to Miss Eliza Wharton ; a young lady whose elegant person , accomplished mind , and polished manners have been much celebrated . 
Her fame has often reached me ; but , as the queen of Sheba said to Solomon , the half was not told me . 
They are to refer me to Miss Wharton for entertainment , till their return . 
Excuse my intrusion , Eliza , said she ; I thought I would just step in and ask you if you have passed a pleasant day ? 
But beware , Eliza ! 
She spoke with an emphasis , and taking up her candle , wished me a good night . 
Something seemingly prophetic in her looks and expressions , cast a momentary gloom upon my mind ! 
When I closed my last letter to you , my heart exulted in the pleasing anticipation of promised bliss ; my wishes danced on the light breezes of hope , and my imagination dared to arrest the attention , and even claim a return of affection from the lovely Eliza Wharton ! 
I was very politely received ; and when Eliza entered the room with a brilliance of appearance and gaiety of manner , which I had never before connected with her character , I rose , as did Major Sanford who offered his hand , and led her to a chair . 
Miss Wharton appeared somewhat confused ; but soon resuming her vivacity , desired me to be seated ; inquired after my health , and made some common place remarks on the weather . 
Then apologizing for leaving me , gave her hand again to Major Sanford , who had previously risen , and reminded her that the time and their engagements made it necessary to leave the good company ; which , indeed , they both appeared very willing to do . 
They told me that Miss Wharton had not the most distant idea of my visiting there , this afternoon ; much less of the design of my visit ; that for some months together , she had been lately confined by the sickness of Mr. Haly , whom she attended during the whole of his last illness ; which confinement had eventually increased her desire of indulging her natural disposition for gaiety . 
She had , however , they said , an excellent heart and reflecting mind , a great share of sensibility , and a temper peculiarly formed for the enjoyments of social life . 
Far , madam , be it from me to censure any conduct , which as yet I have observed in Miss Wharton ; she has too great an interest in my heart to admit of that . 
It was Miss Eliza Wharton , a young lady , whose agreeable person , polished manners , and refined talents , have rendered her the toast of the country around for these two years ; though for half that time she has had a clerical lover imposed on her by her friends ; for I am told it was not agreeable to her inclination . 
By this same clerical lover of hers , she was for several months confined as a nurse . 
But his death has happily relieved her , and she now returns to the world with redoubled lustre . 
At present she is a visitor to Mrs. Richman , who is a relation . 
A young clergyman came in at Gen. Richman 's yesterday , while I was waiting for Eliza , who was much more cordially received by the general and his lady , than was your humble servant : but I lay that up . 
They received me sociably , inquired after my health , my last evening 's entertainment , the company , & c. When , after a little pause , Mrs. Richman said , and how do you like Major Sanford , Eliza ? 
I waited some time in the parlor alone , before Eliza appeared ; and when she did appear , the distant reserve of her manners , and the pensiveness of her countenance convinced me that she had been vexed , and I doubted not but Peter Sanford was the occasion . 
Her wife cousin , I could have sworn , had been giving her a detail of the vices of her gallant ; and warning her against the danger of associating with him in future . 
Notwithstanding , I took no notice of any alteration in her behavior ; but entered with the utmost facetiousness into a conversation which I thought most to her taste . 
By degrees , she assumed her usual vivacity ; cheerfulness and good humor again animated her countenance . 
She having intimated that they were to dine at my friend Lawrence 's , I caught at this information ; and determined to follow them , and teaze the jealous Mrs. Richman , by playing off all the gallantry I was master of in her presence . 
I believe too , that I have charmed the eye at least , of the amiable Eliza . 
Indeed , Charles , she is a fine girl . 
I think it would hurt , my conscience to wound her mind or reputation . 
Were I disposed to marry , I am persuaded she would make an excellent wife ; but that you know is no part of my plan , so long as I can keep out of the noose . 
Your friends , Eliza , said she , would be very happy to see you united to a man of Mr. Boyer 's worth ; and so agreeably settled , as he has a prospect of being . 
Forgive my plainness , Eliza . 
I congratulateyou , my dear Eliza , on the stability of your conduct towards Mr. Boyer . 
At present the most lively emotions of my heart are those of friendship ; that friendship which I hope you will soon participate with your faithful I havesucceeded in my addresses to the lovely Eliza Wharton ; as far at least as I had any reason to expect from our short acquaintance . 
I find the graces of her person and mind rise in my esteem ; and have already enjoyed , in her society , some of the happiest hours of my life . 
She is kind , affable , and condescending ; yet I must own that I have not been able to infuse into her bosom , the ardor which I feel in my own . 
I know that the native modesty of the sex would restrain the discovery ; but there is an animation of countenance , which betrays the sensations of the heart , that I find wanting in her on this occasion . 
Eliza has promised to correspond with me . 
From this I anticipate a source of pleasure , which alone can atone for her absence . 
This same Eliza , of whom I have told you , has really made more impression on my heart , than I was aware of ; or than the sex , take them as they rise , are wont to do . 
But she is besieged by a priest -LRB- a likely lad though . -RRB- 
This one , too , has the interest of all her friends , as I am told . 
Yet Eliza 's reception of me was visibly cordial ; nay , I fancied my company as pleasing to her as that which she had before . 
Could I conform to the sober rules of wedded life , and renounce those dear enjoyments of dissipation , in which I have so long indulged , I know not the lady in the world with whom I would sooner form a connection of this sort than with Eliza Wharton . 
I shall endeavor , notwithstanding , to enjoy her company as long as possible . 
Though I can not possess her wholly myself , I will not tamely see her the property of another . 
How happy am I , said he , seizing my hand , in this opportunity of finding you alone ; an opportunity , Miss Wharton , which I must improve in expatiating on a theme , that fills my heart , and solely animates my frame . 
But let the veil of charity be drawn over my faults ; let the eye of candor impartially examine my present behavior ; let the kind and lenient hand of friendship assist in directing my future steps ; and , perhaps , I may not prove unworthy of associating with the respectable inhabitants of this happy mansion ; for such I am sure it must be , while honored with Miss Wharton 's presence . 
I called this afternoon to pay you my respects ; when being informed that you and your lady were abroad , and that Miss Wharton was in the garden , I took the liberty to invade her retirement . 
She has graciously forgiven my crime , and I was just affixing the seal to my pardon as you entered . 
After he was gone , Mrs. Richman said , I hope you have been agreeably entertained , Miss Wharton ? 
Pardon me , Eliza , this is a second Lovelace . 
When I had concluded , she shook her head , and replied , beware , my friend , of his arts . 
She waited not for an answer , but immediately rising , begged leave to retire , alledging that she was fatigued . 
My daily thoughts and nightly dreams restore me to the society of my beloved mamma ; and , till I enjoy it in reality , I subscribe myself your dutiful daughter , Howwelcome to me , my dear Eliza , are the tidings of your return ? 
No , my dear Eliza . 
Miss Wharton asked me , when I should leave town , and when I should return , or have an opportunity of conveyance to Hampshire ? 
I told her I should write by the next post , and if she had any commands , would be happy to execute them . 
She would send a line to her friend , she said , if I would take the trouble to inclose it in my letter . 
I readily consented ; and told her , that I would call and receive her favor to morrow morning . 
Yet he evidently watched every word and action of Miss Wharton , as if he were really interested in her movements . 
It is said she has many admirers , and I conceive it very possible that this may be one of them ; though , truly , I do not think that she would esteem such a conquest any great honor . 
Mrs. Richman and Miss Wharton judiciously , yet modestly bore a part ; while the other ladies amused themselves with Major Sanford , who was making his sage remarks on the play , which he still kept in his hand . 
Miss Wharton and I , said Mrs. Richman , must beg leave to differ from you , madam . 
I rose to take leave , observing to Miss Wharton , that I should call to morrow , as agreed . 
I shall do the same to you for the present ; as I intend , to morrow to scribble the cover , which is to inclose your Eliza 's letter . 
I then put on , and coming up with them , just as they alighted , and was surprised to find them no other than Major Sanford and Miss Wharton . 
Miss Wharton invited him in ; but he declined , being engaged to dine . 
As I handed Miss Wharton in , he observed jocosely , that she had changed company . 
It was quite accidental , madam , said Miss Wharton . 
A young gentleman , a relation of her 's , who is making them a visit , was to attend us . 
Miss Wharton made no reply ; and the conversation took a general turn . 
Miss Wharton sustained her part with great propriety . 
Indeed , she discovers a fund of useful knowledge , and extensive reading , which render her peculiarly entertaining ; while the brilliancy of her wit , the fluency of her language , the vivacity and case of her manners , are inexpressibly engaging . 
I have heard so much in praise of Miss Wharton 's penmanship , in addition to her other endowments , that I am almost tempted to break the seal of her letter to you ; but I forbear . 
Pardon me , my dear Eliza , said he , if I am impertinent ; it is my regard for you which impels me to the presumption . 
My friendship for you , my dear Eliza , said she , interests me so much in your affairs , that I can not repress my curiosity to know who has the honor of your hand , this evening . 
I think it far too great to be thus bestowed , returned she . 
Indeed , I must own , that my particular design was , to observe Miss Wharton 's movements , being rather inclined to jealousy in your behalf . 
She was handed into the assembly room by Major Sanford . 
I endeavored to associate with Miss Wharton , but found it impossible to detach her a moment from the coxcomb who attended her . 
If she has any idea of a connection with you , why does she continue to associate with another , especially with one of so opposite a description ? 
I am seriously afraid , that there is more intimacy between them , than there ought to be , considering the encouragement she has given you . 
Yet I must believe , that Miss Wharton has , in reality , all that virtue and good sense of which she enjoys the reputation ; but her present conduct is mysterious . 
I know that to frustrate their designs of a connection between Mr. Boyer and Eliza would be a grievous disappointment . 
I have not yet determined to seduce her , though , with all her pretensions to virtue , I do not think it impossible . 
And if I should , she can blame none but herself , since she knows my character , and has no reason to wonder if I act consistently with it . 
If she will play with a lion , let her beware of his paw , I say . 
At present , I wish innocently to enjoy her society ; it is a luxury which I never tasted before . 
She is the very soul of pleasure . 
The gayest circle is irradiated by her presence , and the highest entertainment receives its greatest charm from her smiles . 
Besides , I have purchased the seat of Capt. Pribble , about a mile from her mother 's ; and can I think of suffering her to leave the neighborhood , just as I enter it ? 
and is a man of this description to be the partner , the companion , the bosom friend of my Eliza ? 
Let not the noble qualities , so lavishly bestowed upon her , be thus unworthily sacrificed ! 
I must repair to the toilet and adorn for a new conquest , the person of I AM very happy to find you are in so good spirits , Eliza , after parting with your favorite swain . 
I know nothing of him , said she ; he is quite a stranger to me , only as he called at my house , last week , to pay me his respects , as he said , for the sake of my late husband , whose memory he revered ; and because I was the mother of Miss Eliza Wharton , with whom he had the honor of some little acquaintance . 
I writea line , at Mrs. Richman 's request , just to inform you , Eliza , that yesterday , that lovely and beloved woman presented me with a daughter . 
Permit me , Miss Wharton , said he , to lead you to your lovely friend ; her happiness must be heightened by your participation of it . 
She has conferred upon another that affection which I wished to engross . 
I am again permitted to associate with my Eliza ; invited to the same entertainment ! 
She does not resuse to join with me in the mazy dance , and partake the scenes of festive mirth . 
Nay , more ; she allows me to press her hand to my lips ; and listens to the sighing accents of love . 
Love her , I certainly do . 
Would to heaven I could marry her ! 
Would to heaven I had preserved my fortune ; or she had one to supply its place ! 
I am distracted at the idea of losing her forever . 
I am sometimes tempted to solicit her hand in serious earnest ; but if I should , poverty and want must be the consequence . 
Her disappointment in the expectation of affluence and splendor , which I believe her ruling passion , would afford a perpetual source of discontent and mutual wretchedness . 
She is going to Boston with her friend , Mrs. Sumner . 
I must follow her . 
I must break the connection , which is rapidly forming , between her and Mr. Boyer ; and enjoy her society a while longer , if no more . 
I fear , my friend , that there is some foundation for your suspicions respecting my beloved Eliza . 
If this be the fact , which I am loth to believe , all my regard for her shall never make me the dupe of it . 
When I arrived at her residence , at New-Haven , where , I told you in my last , I was soon to go , she gave me a most cordial reception . 
Her whole behavior to me was correspondent with those sentiments of esteem and affection which she modestly avowed . 
She permitted me to accompany her to Hartford , to restore her to her mother , and to declare my wish to receive her again from her hand . 
As all my wishes were consistent with virtue and honor , she readily indulged them . 
She took apparent pleasure in my company , encouraged my hopes of a future union , and listened to the tender accents of love . 
But the scenes of gaiety , which invited her attention , reversed her conduct . 
Instead of these , parties were formed , unpleasing to my taste ; and every opportunity was embraced to join in diversions , in which she knew I could not consistently take a share . 
I , however , acquiesced in her pleasure , though I sometimes thought myself neglected , and even hinted it to her mother . 
Mrs. Summer acquainted me that she had prevailed on Miss Wharton to go and spend a few weeks with her at Boston , whither she was removing ; and urged my accompanying them . 
But their importunity was so great , and Eliza 's declaration that it would be very agreeable to her , so tempting , that I consented . 
Here I took lodgings and spent about a week , taking every opportunity to converse with Eliza , striving to discover her real disposition towards me . 
I mentioned the inconvenience of visiting her so often as I wished , and suggested my desire to enter , as soon as might be , into a family relation . 
I painted in the most alluring colours the pleasures resulting from domestic tranquillity , mutual confidence , and conjugal affection ; and insisted on her declaring frankly whether she designed to share this happiness with me , and when it should commence . 
She owned that she intended to give me her hand ; but when she should be ready , she could not yet determine . 
She pretended a promise from me to wait her time ; to consent that she should share the pleasures of the sashionable world , as long as , she chose , & c. I then attempted to convince her of her mistaken ideas of pleasure ; that the scenes of dissipation , of which she was so passionately sond , afforded no true enjoyment ; that the adulation of the coxcomb could not give durability to her charms , or secure the approbation of the wife and good ; nor could the fashionable amusements of brilliant assemblies , and crouded theatres furnish the mind with These friendly suggestions , I found were considered as the theme of a priest ; and my desire to detach her from such empty pursuits , as the selfishness of a lover . 
She was even offended at my freedom ; and warmly affirmed , that no one had a right to arraign her conduct . 
I mentioned Major Sanford who was then in town , and who -LRB- though she went to places of public resort with Mr. and Mrs. Sumner -RRB- always met and gallanted her home . 
I have just received a letter from Eliza , informing me of her return to Hartford . 
I would not be understood to impeach Miss Wharton 's virtue ; I mean her chastity . 
When I arrived at Mrs. Wharton 's , and inquired for Eliza , I was told that she had rode out ; but was soon expected home . 
I met her and offered my hand , which she received with apparent tenderness . 
Her previous excuses were renewed , and her wishes to have a union still longer delayed , were zealously urged . 
She could not bear the idea of consinement to the cares of a married life at persent ; and begged me to defer all solicitation on that subject to some future day . 
I found my temper rise , and told her plainly , that I was not thus to be tristed with ; that if her regard for me was sincere ; if she really intended to form a connection with me , she could not thus protract the time , try my patience , and prefer every other pleasure to the rational interchange of affection , to the calm delights of domestic life . 
But in vain did I argue against her false notions of happiness ; in vain did I represent the dangerous system of conduct , which she now pursued , and urge her to accept , before it was too late , the hand and heart which were devoted to her service . 
That , she said , she purposed , ere long to do ; and hoped amply to reward my faithful love ; but she could not fix the time this evening . 
She must consider a little further ; and likewise consult her mother . 
She blushed , and gave me no answer . 
Tell me , Eliza , I continued , tell me frankly , if he has not supplanted me in your affections ; if he be not the cause of my being thus evasively , thus cruelly treated ? 
Major Sanford , sir , replied she , has done you no harm . 
I can say nothing from personal observation , said he ; but same , of late , has talked loudly of Major Sanford and Miss Wharton . 
The Major is a man of gallantry , and Miss Wharton is a gay lady ; but I dare say that your connection will be happy , if it he formed . 
I informed him of my embarrassment ; and he gave me to understand that Eliza 's conduct had , for some time past , been a subject of speculation in the town ; that formerly , her character was highly esteemed ; but that her intimacy with a man of Sanford 's known libertinism ; more especially as she was supposed to be engaged to another , had rendered her very censurable ; that they were often together ; that wherever she went , he was sure to follow , as if by appointment ; that they walked , talked , sung and danced together in all companies ; that some supposed he would marry her ; others , that he only meditated adding her name to the black catalogue of deluded wretches , whom he had already ruined ! 
With the dawn I rose ; and after breakfast walked to Mrs. Wharton 's , who informed me , that Eliza was in her chamber , writing to a friend , but would be down in a few minutes . 
In this manner we conversed till the clock struck twelve ; and Eliza , not appearing , I desired her mamma to send up word that I waited to see her . 
On inquiry , I was told that Eliza had gone to walk in the garden ; but desired that no person might intrude on her retirement . 
The singularity of the request awakened my curiosity , and determined me to follow her . 
I sought her in vain , in different parts of the garden , till , going towards an arbor , almost concealed from sight , by surrounding shrubbery , I discovered her , sitting in close conversation with Major Sanford ! 
While in this situation , Eliza entered the room . 
She was not less discomposed than myself . 
She sat down at the window and wept . 
Her mamma wept likewise . 
At length she recovered herself , in a degree , and desired me to sit down . 
Will you , said she , permit me to vindicate my conduct and explain my motives ? 
How , Miss Wharton , have I merited this treatment from you ? 
I turned to Eliza , and attempted to speak ; but her extreme emotion softened me , and I could not command my voice . 
I took her hand , and bowing , in token of an adieu , went precipitately out of the house . 
The next morning I wrote a farewell letter to Eliza -LRB- a copy of which I shall inclose to you -RRB- and ordering my horse to be brought , left town immediately . 
My resentment of her behavior has much assisted me in erasing her image from my breast . 
The more I reflect on her temper and disposition , the more my gratitude is enlivened towards the wise Disposer of all events for enabling me to break asunder the snares of the deluder . 
I am convinced , that the gaiety and extravagance of her taste , the frivolous levity of her manners disqualify her for the station in which I wished to have placed her . 
O Eliza ! 
Think not , Eliza , that I leave you with indifference ! 
Oh my adorable Eliza , have you sacrificed me to my rival ? 
He threw himself at my seet and exclaimed , leave me not , Eliza , I conjure you not to leave me . 
True , Eliza was very haughty , and resolutely insisted on immediate declaration or rejection . 
I endeavored to detain Eliza , but in vain . 
She left me on my knees , which are always ready to bend on such occasions . 
I heard nothing more of her till yesterday , when I determined to know how she stood affected towards me . 
I therefore paid her a visit , her mamma being luckily abroad . 
She received me very placidly , and told me , on inquiry , that Mr. Boyer 's resentment at her meeting me in the garden was so great , that he had bid her a final adieu . 
I congratulated myself on having no rival ; hoped that her favor would now be unbiassed , and that in due time I should reap the reward of my fidelity . 
She begged me not to mention the subject ; said she had been perplexed by our competition , and wished not to hear any thing further about it at present . 
I bowed in obedience to her commands and changed the discourse . 
I informed her , that I was about taking a tour to the southward ; that I should be absent several months , and trusted that on my return her embarrassments would be over . 
I left her with regret . 
After all , Charles , she is the summum bonumof my life . 
I must have her in some way or other . 
Should this letter find you in the full possession of happiness , let not the idea of your once loved Eliza , thus intruding itself again upon your thoughts , interrupt your enjoyments . 
Whatever may be my destiny , my best wishes shall ever attend you , and a pleasing remembrance of your honorable attentions preside , till death , in the breast of AsI was sitting last evening in my study , a letter was handed me by a servant ; upon which I no sooner cast my eye , than I recognized , with surprise , the hand and seal of my once loved , but to me long lost Eliza ! 
Where , O Eliza Wharton ! 
Youcommanded me to write you respecting Miss Wharton ; and I obey . 
But I can not describe to you the surprising change , which she has undergone . 
Her vivacity has entirely forsaken her ; and she has actually become , what she once dreaded above all things , a recluse ! 
She slies from company , as eagerly as she formerly sought it ! 
Her mamma is exceedingly distressed by the settled melancholy which appears in her darling child ; but neither of us think it best to mention the subject to her . 
We endeavor to find means to amuse her ; and we flatter ourselves that the prospect of success rather increases . 
It would add greatly to my happiness , to contribute , in any degree , to restore her to herself , to her friends , and to society . 
We are all invited to dine abroad to morrow ; and to oblige me , she has consented to go . 
Pray madam , write to her often . 
Your letters may do much for her . 
She is still feelingly alive to the power of friendship ; and none can exercise it upon her to greater acceptance , or with more advantage than yourself . 
Miss Wharton has heard , but does not believe it . 
I hope , for her sake , it will prove true . 
For , at any rate , he is about returning ; and from her mamma 's account of his past conduct towards Eliza , were he to return unconnected , he would probably renew his attentions ; and though they might end in marriage , her happiness would not be secured . 
She has too nice a sense of love and honor , to compound with his licentious principles . 
I went into Eliza 's chamber the other day , and found her with a miniature picture in her hand . 
I am endeavoring to prepare Eliza , by degrees , to accompany me to Boston , the ensuing winter ; but think it doubtful whether I shall succeed . 
Again , my Eliza , will we ramble together in those retired shades which friendship has rendered so delightful to us . 
The dart which I received from Miss Wharton , sticks fast in my heart ; and I assure you , I could hardly persuade myself even to appear unfaithful to her . 
O , Eliza , accuse me not of infidelity ; for your image is my constant companion ! 
A thousand times have I cursed the unpropitious stars , which withheld from her a fortune . 
That would have enabled me to marry her ; and with her , even wedlock would have been supportable . 
I am told , that she is still single . 
Her sober lover never returned . 
I want to see Eliza , and I must see her ; yet I dread an interview . 
I shall own that my circumstances would not allow me to possess her ; and yet that I could not resign her to another . 
When I make up the matter with her , I shall solicit her friendship for my wife . 
By this mean I may enjoy her society , at least , which will alleviate the consinement of a married state . 
I really wish she had less merit , that I might have a plausible excuse for neglecting her . 
Every thing hereabouts recals Eliza to my mind . 
I impatiently anticipate the hour , which will convey me to her presence . 
`` Will Miss Wharton condescend to converse a few moments with her once favored Sanford ? 
He therefore presumes not to request it on the score of merit , or of former acquaintance ; but solicits it from her benevolence , and pity . '' 
Miss Wharton , said he , despise me not . 
said I. Will you , rejoined he , condescend to sit with me , Eliza ? 
I am a married man , Eliza . 
Eliza appears to be rapidly returning to her former cheerfulness , if not gaity . 
I hope she will not diverge too far from her present sedateness and solidity ; yet I am not without apprehensions of danger , on that score . 
She tells me , that she assiduously cultivates her natural vivacity ; that she finds her taste for company and amusements increasing ; that she dreads being alone , because past scenes arise to view which vex and discompose her . 
I flatter myself , however , that the time is not far distant , when her passions will vibrate with regularity . 
Eliza has given you a particular , and I believe , a faithful detail . 
I am astonished that Eliza 's penetrating eye , has not long since read his vices in his very countenance . 
Eliza did not see them till they were very near us . 
She started , turned pale , and then colored like crimson . 
I can not but think , a little envy rankled in her heart . 
Major Sanford very politely accosted us ; and congratulated Mrs. Sanford on this opportunity of introducing her to a particular friend ; presenting Eliza . 
She received her with an easy dignity , and bid her welcome to this part of the country . 
Major Sanford 's eyes were rivetted on Eliza , the whole time we were together ; and he seemed loath to remove them , when we separated . 
I shall therefore discourage Eliza from associating with him under any pretext whatever . 
She appeared more pensive and thoughtful than common , as we returned home ; and said little the rest of the evening ; but next morning was as chatty as ever . 
She is warm in the praises of Mrs. Sanford , thinks her an accomplished woman , and wonders that the major could suggest an idea of marrying her for her money . 
Sir , said I , Eliza Wharton is not now what she once was ! 
He took me by the hand , and said , you distress me , Miss Wharton , indeed , you distress me ! 
Eliza is extremely altered ! 
Her pale dejected countenance , with the sedateness of her manners , so different from the lively glow of health , cheerfulness and activity , which formerly animated her appearance and deportment , struck me very disagreeably . 
With all my gallantry , and fluency in love matters , I was unable to acquit myself tolerably ; or to address her with any degree of ease and confidence . 
She was very calm ; and spoke with great indifference about my marriage , & c. which mortified me exceedingly . 
Yet I can not consent to believe that her present depression of spirits arises solely from Mr. Boyer 's infidelity . 
I slatter myself that I am of sufficient consequence to her , to have contributed in a degree . 
When I inquired after her health , she told me she had been indisposed ; but was now much better . 
This indisposition , I am informed , was purely mental ; and I am happy to observe her recovering from it . 
I frequently visit her , sometimes with , and sometimes without my wife ; of whom , through my mediation , she has become a favorite . 
My wife begins to rally me on my fondness for Miss Wharton . 
She asked me the other day if she had a fortune ? 
No , said I , if she had I should have married her . 
This wounded her sensibility . 
Yet , I find myself growing extremely irritable , and she must take heed how she provokes me ; for I do not love her ; and I think the name of wife becomes more and more distasteful to me every day . 
In my mind Eliza has no competitor . 
But I must keep up appearances , though I endeavor to regain her love . 
I imagine that the enjoyment of her society , as a neighbor and friend may content me for the present , and render my condition supportable . 
I am , my dear Lucy , your 's most affectionately , Agreeablyto your desire , every art has been tried , every allurement held out , every argument used , and every plan adopted which Mrs. Wharton and I could devise to induce Eliza to accompany me to Boston ; but all in vain . 
Sometimes she has been almost persuaded to a compliance with our united request ; but soon has resolutely determined against it . 
I have observed her sentiments to be suddenly changed after being in company with Major Sanford . 
Indeed the major seems to have insinuated himself into her good opinion more than ever . 
She is flattered into the belief that his attention to her is purely the result of friendship and benevolence . 
The latter is his invariable practice , when he finds Eliza alone . 
I entered the parlor the other day , somewhat suddenly , and found him sitting very near Eliza , in a low conversation . 
When he was gone ; I suspect , said I , that the major was whispering a tale of love , Eliza ? 
Do you imagine , said she , that I would listen to such a theme from a married man ? 
I was not aware of that , said she . 
He was very gay , the whole evening ; and when the company separated , he was the first to present his arm to Eliza , who accepted it without hesitation . 
Mr. Newhall observed , that if Major Sanford were not married , he should suspect he still intended a union with Miss Wharton . 
I waited at the door for Eliza and Major Sanford . 
At some little distance I saw him press her hand to his lips . 
Eliza soon followed me . 
She did the same . 
At length she said , you seem not to have enjoyed your walk , Miss Granby ; did you not like your gallant ? 
I make no complaint , rejoined she ; I was very well entertained . 
Trust him not then , my dear Eliza ! 
My friends , said she , are very jealous of me , lately . 
no , Eliza ; it is not love , which induces him to entertain you with the subject ! 
It was evidently contrived to faciliate an interview with Eliza . 
The old lady and I expatiated largely on the vileness of this conduct ; and endeavored to expose it to Eliza 's view in its true colors . 
She pretended not to justify it . 
Yet she looked as if she wished it in her power . 
I regret leaving Eliza ! 
I tremble at her danger ! 
She has not the resolution to resist temptation , which she once possessed . 
Her mind is surprisingly weakened ! 
She appears sensible of this ; yet adds to it by yielding to her own imbecility . 
You will receive a letter from her with this ; though I had much difficulty to persuade her to write . 
She has unfortunately become very averse to this , her once favorite amusement . 
Pardon my suspicions , Eliza : they are excited by real friendship . 
Is he the man , my dear Eliza , whose friendship you wish to cultivate ? 
A paradox , indeed , is the greater part of your letter to us , my dear Eliza . 
I hope neither you , nor I , Eliza , shall ever be tried by a man of debauched principles . 
But , where is Eliza ? 
By this time we had reached the back parlor , whither Mrs. Wharton led me ; and the door being open , I saw Eliza , reclined on a settee , in a very thoughtful posture . 
When I advanced to meet her , she never moved ; but sat `` like patience on a monument , smiling at grief ! '' 
I stopped involuntarily , and involuntarily raising my eyes to heaven , exclaimed , is that Eliza Wharton ! 
She burst into tears ; and attempted to rise , but sunk again into her feat . 
Seeing her thus affected , I sat down by her ; and throwing my arm about her neck , why these tears ? 
We were all very chatty ; even Eliza resumed , in a degree , her former sociability . 
A settled gloom , notwithstanding , brooded on her countenance ; and a deep sigh often escaped her , in spite of her evident endeavors to suppress it . 
She went to bed before us ; when her mamma informed me that her health had been declining for some months , that she never complained , but studiously concealed every symptom of indisposition . 
Whether it were any real disorder of body , or whether it arose from her depression of spirits , she could not tell ; but supposed they operated together , and mutually heightened each other . 
I inquired after Major Sanford ; whether he and Eliza had associated together during my absence ? 
Sometimes , she said , they seemed on good terms ; and he frequently called to see her ; at others , they had very little , if any correspondence at all . 
She told me that Eliza never went abroad , and was very loath to see company at home ; that her chief amusement consisted in solitary walks ; that the dreadful idea of her meeting Major Sanford in these walks , had now and then intruded upon her imagination ; that she had not the least evidence of the fact , however ; and indeed , was afraid to make any inquiries into the matter , lest her own suspicions should be discovered ; that the major 's character was worse than ever ; that he was much abroad , and frequently entertained large parties of worthiess bacchanalians at his house ; that common report said he treated his wife with indifference , neglect , and ill nature ; with many other circumstances , which it is not material to relate . 
I have arrived to the utmost bounds of my wishes ; the full possession of my adorable Eliza ! 
If it has reference to the pleasures , which I have enjoyed with Eliza , I like it hugely , as Tristram Shandy 's father said of Yorick 's sermon ; and I think it fully verified . 
I was sometimes ready to despair , under an idea that her resolution was unconquerable , her virtue impregnable . 
Indeed , I should have given over the pursuit long ago , but for the hopes of success I entertained from her parlying with me , and in reliance upon her own strength , endeavoring to combat , and counteract my designs . 
At the first discovery , absolute distraction seized the soul of Eliza , which has since terminated in a fixed melancholy . 
Her health too is much impaired . 
She thinks herself rapidly declining ; and I tremble when I see her emaciated form ! 
She brought me a boy a few weeks past , a dead one though . 
I must , however , seek some means to relieve Eliza 's distress . 
My finances are low ; but the last fraction shall be expended in her service , if she need it . 
Eliza -- Oh the ruined , lost Eliza ! 
After my last letter , Eliza remained much in the same gloomy situation as I found her . 
She refused to go , agreeably to her promise , to visit your mamma ; and under one pretext or another , has constantly declined accompanying me any where else , since my arrival . 
Till last Thursday night she slept in the same bed with me ; when she excused herself , by saying she was restless , and should disturb my repose . 
I yeilded to her humor of taking a different apartment , little suspecting the real cause ! 
She frequently walked cut ; and though I sometimes followed , I very seldom found her . 
Two or three times , when I happened to be awake , I heard her go down stairs ; and on inquiry in the morning , she told me that she was very thirsty , and went down for water . 
I observed , a degree of hesitancy in her answers , for which I could not account . 
Soon after I perceived a footstep upon the stairs , which carefully approached and entered Eliza 's chamber . 
I doubted not but Major Sanford was the person I had seen ; and the discovery of Eliza 's guilt , in this infamous intrigue , almost deprived me of thought and recollection ! 
But what to do , I knew not ; whether to go directly to her chamber , and let her know that she was detected ; or to wait another opportunity . 
I tapped at her door ; and she bid me come in . 
She was sitting in an easy chair by the side of her bed . 
As I entered she withdrew her handkerchief from her face ; and looking earnestly at me , said , what procures me the favor of a visit , at this early hour , Miss Granby ? 
But what breaks your rest ; and calls you up so unseasonably , Eliza ? 
Remorse , and despair , answered she , weeping . 
She was silent , but tears flowed abundantly . 
Answer my question sincerely ; for , believe me , Eliza , it is not malice , but concern for you , which prompts it . 
But your mother , Eliza ! 
She can not long be ignorant of your fall ; and I tremble to think of her distress ! 
It will break her widowed heart ! 
How has she loved ; how has she doated upon you ! 
Eliza was extremely affected . 
The appearance of calamity which she exhibited would have softened the most obdurate anger . 
I therefore seated myself beside her ; and assuming an air of kindness , compose yourself , Eliza , said I ; I repeat what I told you before , it is the purest friendship , which thus interests me in your concerns . 
I plead guilty , said she , to all your charges . 
When I went down , Mrs. Wharton desired me to step up , and inform Eliza that breakfast was ready . 
She told me she could not yet compose herself sufficiently to see her mamma ; and begged me to excuse her absence as I thought proper . 
I accordingly returned for answer to Mrs. Wharton , that Eliza had rested but indifferently , and being somewhat indisposed , would not come down , but wished me to bring her a bowl of chocolate , when we had breakfasted . 
I was obliged studiously to suppress even my thoughts concerning her , left the emotions they excited might be observed . 
Eliza came down and walked in the garden before dinner ; at which she commanded herself much better than I expected . 
She said that a little ride might , she imagined , be of service to her ; and asked me if I would accompany her a few miles in the afternoon . 
Her mamma was much pleased with the proposition ; and the chaise was accordingly ordered . 
I observed to Eliza , as we rode , that with her natural and acquired abilities , with her advantages of education , with her opportunities of knowing the world , and of tracing the virtues and vices of mankind to their origin , I was surprised at her becoming the prey of an insidious libertine , with whose character she was well acquainted , and whose principles she was fully apprised would prompt him to deceive and betray her . 
Your surprise is very natural , said she . 
What is this plan of operation , Eliza ? 
Be patient , continued she and you shall soon be informed . 
Mrs. Wharton eagerly inquired whether I had found out the cause of Eliza 's melancholy . 
I have urged her , said I , on the subject ; but she alledges that she has particular reasons for present concealment . 
She has , notwithstanding , promised to let me know , the day after to morrow . 
Oh , said she , I shall not rest till the period arrives . 
Yes , my dear friend , our beloved Eliza , is gone ! 
Tell me , Eliza , said she , tell me the cause of your trouble ! 
Supper was brought in ; and we endeavored to prevail on Eliza to eat , but in vain . 
She sat down , in compliance with our united importunities ; but neither of us tasted food . 
At length , Eliza rose to retire . 
Surely , Eliza , said she , you are not that being ! 
Saying this , she threw her arms about her daughter 's neck , and affectionately kissed her . 
Eliza struggled from her embrace , and looking at her with wild despair , exclaimed , this is too much ! 
She then rushed precipitately out of the room , and left us overwhelmed in sympathy and astonishment ! 
When Mrs. Wharton had recovered herself a little , she observed , that Eliza 's brain was evidently disordered . 
Nothing else , continued she , could impel her to act in this extraordinary manner . 
At first she was resolved to follow her ; but I dissuaded her from it , alledging , that as she had desired me to come into her chamber , I thought it better for me to go alone . 
She acquiesced ; but said she should not think of going to bed ; but would , however , retire to her chamber , and seek consolation there . 
I bade her good night ; and went up to Eliza , who took me by the hand and led me to the toilet , upon which she laid the two inclosed letters , the one to her mamma , and the other to me . 
These , said she , contain what I had not resolution to express . 
What mean you , Eliza ? 
Oh , no , she replied ; you may be assured your fear is groundless . 
I will not leave you , Eliza , said I , unless you will go directly to bed , and endeavor to rest . 
I will , said she , and the sooner the better . 
I tenderly embraced her , and retired , though not to bed . 
About an hour after , I returned to her chamber , and opening the door very softly , found her apparently asleep . 
I acquainted Mrs. Wharton with her situation , which was a great consolation to us both ; and encouraged us to go to bed . 
I sprang from my bed , and reached the window just in time to see a female handed into a chaise by a man who hastily followed her , and drove furiously away ! 
I at once concluded they could be no other than Eliza and Major Sanford . 
Under this impression I made no delay , but ran immediately to her chamber . 
A candle was burning on the table ; but Eliza was not there ! 
I thought it best to acquaint her mamma with the melancholy discovery ; and steping to her apartment for the purpose , found her rising . 
She had heard me walk , and was anxious to know the cause . 
Eliza has left us ! 
She is just gone ! 
I saw her handed into a chaise , which instantly disappeared ! 
At this intelligence she gave a shriek , and fell back on her bed ! 
I alarmed the family , and by their assistance soon recovered her . 
She desired me to inform her of every particular relative to her elopement , which I did ; and then delivered her the letter which Eliza had left for her . 
I suspect , said she , as she took it ; I have long suspected , what I dared not believe ! 
I could not answer her , and therefore withdrew . 
When I had read Eliza 's letter to me , and wept over the sad fall ; and , as I fear , the total loss of this once amiable and accomplished girl , I returned to Mrs. Wharton . 
The agitation of her mind had exhausted her strength ; and I prevailed on her to refresh , and endeavor to compose herself to rest ; assuring her of my utmost exertions to find out Eliza 's retreat , and restore her to a mother 's arms . 
Major Sanford is from home , as I expected ; and I am determined , if he return , to see him myself , and extort from him the place of Eliza 's concealment . 
Her flight , in her present state of health , is inexpressibly distressing to her mother ; and , unless we find her soon , I dread the effects ! 
I immediately wrote him a billet , entreating and conjuring him to let me know where the hapless Eliza had fled . 
`` Miss Granby need be under no apprehensions , respecting the situation of our beloved Eliza . 
She is well provided for , conveniently accommodated , and has every thing to make her happy , which love or affluence can give . 
Major Sanford has solemnly sworn not to discover her retreat . 
She wishes to avoid the accusations of her friends , till she is better able to bear them . 
Her mother may rest assured of immediate information , should any danger threaten her amiable daughter ; and also of having seasonable notice of her safety . '' 
But at present , I shall only enclose Eliza 's letters to her mamma , and me , and , subscribe myself your sincere and obliged friend , Inwhat words , in what language shall I address you ? 
Yes , madam , your Eliza has fallen ; fallen , indeed ! 
She has become the victim of her own indiscretion , and of the intrigue and artifice of a designing libertine , who is the husband of another ! 
She is polluted , and no more worthy of her parentage ! 
She flies from you , not to conceal her guilt , that she humbly and penitently owns ; but to avoid what she has never experienced , and feels herself unable to support , a mother 's frown ; to escape the heart-rending sight of a parent 's grief , occasioned by the crimes of her guilty child ! 
If she should , she would find no difficulty in obtaining it ; and then I would take Eliza in her stead . 
And , on this account , I can not be positive that even Eliza would retain my love . 
She has been very suspicious of my amour with Eliza ; and now and then expressed her jealous sentiments a little more warmly than my patience would bear . 
But the news of Eliza 's circumstances and retirement , being publicly talked of , have reached her ears , and rendered her quite out-rageous . 
She tells me she will no longer brook my indifference and infidelity ; intends soon to return to her father 's house , and extricate herself from me intirely . 
My general reply to all this , is , that she knew my character before we married , and could reasonably expect nothing less than what has happened . 
I shall not oppose her leaving me , as it may conduce to the execution of the plan I have hinted above . 
From my very soul I pity her ; and wish I could have preserved her virtue consistently with the indulgence of my passion . 
To her I lay not the principal blame , as in like cases , I do to the sex in general . 
My finesse was too well planned for detection , and my snares too deeply laid for any one to escape who had the least warmth in her constitution , or affection in her heart . 
I shall , therefore , be the less whimsical about a future connection , and the more solicitous to make her reparation , should it ever be in my power . 
Her friends are all in arms about her . 
I am afraid I shall be obliged to remove my quarters ; for Eliza was so great a favorite in town , that I am looked upon with an evil eye . 
I plead with her before we parted last , to forgive my seducing her ; alledged my ardent love , and my inability to possess her in any other way . 
How , said she , can that be love which destroys its object ? 
but I forgive you , added she . 
I seized her hand and exclaimed , you must not leave me , Eliza , with that awful anathema on your lips ! 
That , said she , I shall soon do ; for in the grave there is no remembrance ! 
She saw my distress , and kindly softened her manner . 
If I am severe , said she , it is because I wish to impress your mind with such a sense of your offences against your Maker , your friends and society in general , as may effect your repentance and amendment . 
How sincerely , my dear Mrs. Sumner , must the friends of our departed Eliza , sympathize with each other ; and with her afflicted , bereaved parent ! 
I shall not attempt to paint our heart felt grief and lamentation upon this occasion ; for we had no doubt of Eliza 's being the person described , as a stranger , who died at Danvers , last July . 
Her delivery of a child ; her dejected state of mind ; the marks upon her linen ; indeed , every circumstance in the advertisement convinced us beyond dispute , that it could be no other . 
My testimony of Eliza 's penitence , before her departure , is a source of comfort to this disconsolate parent . 
She fondly cherished the idea , that having expiated her offence by sincere repentance and amendment , her deluded child finally made a happy exchange of worlds . 
But the desperate resolution , which she formed , and executed of becoming a fugitive ; of deserting her mother 's house and protection , and of wandering and dying among strangers , is a most distressing reflection to her friends ; especially to her mother , in whose breast so many painful ideas arise , that she finds it extremely difficult to compose herself to that resignation , which she evidently strives to exemplify . 
Eliza 's brother has been to visit her last retreat ; and to learn the particulars of her melancholy exit . 
He relates , that she was well accommodated , and had every attention and assistance , which her situation required . 
The people where she resided appear to have a lively sense of her merit and misfortunes . 
They testify her modest deportment , her fortitude under the sufferings to which she was called , and the serenity and composure , with which she bid a last adieu to the world . 
Mr. Wharton has brought back several scraps of her writing , containing miscellaneous reflections on her situation , the death of her babe , and the absence of her friends . 
Some of these were written before , some after her confinement . 
These valuable testimonies of the affecting sense , and calm expectation she entertained of her approaching dissolution , are calculated to sooth and comfort the minds of mourning connections . 
They greatly alleviate the regret occasioned by her absence , at this awful period . 
Her elopement can be equalled only by the infatuation which caused her ruin . 
`` But let no one reproach her memory . 
Her life has paid the forfeit of her folly . 
I will bring Eliza 's posthumous papers with me , when I come to Boston , as I have not time to copy them now . 
Not only the life , but what was still dearer , the reputation and virtue of the unfortunate Eliza , have fallen victims at the shrine of libertinism!Detested be the epithet ! 
My resentment at the base arts , which must have been employed to complete the seduction of Eliza , I can not suppress . 
She is gone ; yes , she is gone for ever ! 
Cruel fate has snatched her from me ; and she is irretrievably lost ! 
Where shall I fly from the upbraidings of my mind , which accuses me as the murderer of my Eliza ? 
Oh , that I had seen her ; that I had once more asked her forgiveness ! 
The day on which I meant to visit her , most of my property was attached , and to secure the rest , I was obliged to shut my doors , and become a prisoner in my own house ! 
I would have given millions , had I possessed them , to have been at liberty to see , and to have had power to preserve Eliza from death ! 
When I first heard the dreadful tidings of her exit , I believe I acted like a madman ! 
I shall fly my country as soon as possible ; I shall go from every object which reminds me of my departed Eliza ! 
But never , never shall I eradicate from my bosom the idea of her excellence ; or the painful remembrance of the injuries I have done her ! 
Her shade will perpetually haunt me ! 
The image of her , as she appeared when mounting the carriage which conveyed her for ever from my sight , she waved her hand in token of a last adieu , will always be present to my imagination ! 
The solemn counsel she gave me before we parted , never more to meet , will not cease to resound in my ears ! 
While my being is prolonged , I must feel the disgraceful , and torturing effects of my guilt in seducing her ! 
How madly have I deprived her of happiness , of reputation , of life ! 
Her friends , could they know the pangs of contrition , and the horror of conscience which attend me , would be amply revenged ! 
It is said , she quitted the world with composure and peace . 
Well she might ! 
She had not that insupportable weight of iniquity , which sinks me to despair ! 
She found consolation in that religion , which I have ridiculed as priestcraft and hypocrisy ! 
How sincerely I sympathize with the bereaved parent of the dear , deceased Eliza , I can feel , but have not power to express . 
Let it be her consolation , that her child is at rest . 
The resolution which carried this deluded wanderer thus far from her friends , and supported her through her various trials , is astonishing ! 
Happy would it have been , had she exerted an equal degree of fortitude in repelling the first attacks upon her virtue ! 
But she is no more ; and heaven forbid that I should accuse or reproach her ! 
From the melancholy story of Eliza Wharton , let the American fair learn to reject with disdain every insinuation derogatory to their true dignity and honor . 
The grave of Eliza Wharton , said she , shall not be unbedewed by the tears of friendship . 
Yesterday we went accordingly , and were much pleased with the apparent sincerity of the people , in their assurances that every thing in their power had been done to render her situation comfortable . 
The minutest circumstances were faithfully related ; and from the state of her mind , in her last hours , I think much comfort may be derived to her afflicted friends . 
We spent a mournful hour , in the place where she is intered , and then returned to the inn , while Mrs. Sumner gave orders for a decent stone to be erected over her grave , with the following inscription : `` THIS HUMBLE STONE , INMEMORY OFELIZA WHARTON , IS INSCRIBED BY HER WEEPING FRIENDS , TO WHOM SHE ENDEARED HERSELF BY UNCOMMON TENDERNESS AND AFFECTION . 
I hope , madam , that you will derive satisfaction from these exertions of friendship , and that , united to the many other sources of consolation with which you are furnished , they may alleviate your grief ; and while they leave the pleasing remembrance of her virtues , add the supporting persuasion , that your Eliza is happy . 
