She used to adore her husband , and now she adores her money , cherishing a quiet blood-relation 's hatred for her niece , Janet Gibbs , who , she knows , expects a large legacy , and whom she is determined to disappoint . 
Her money shall all go in a lump to a distant relation of her husband 's , and Janet shall be saved the trouble of pretending to cry , by finding that she is left with a miserable pittance . 
Janet wanted to join in the tracking , but I told her I 'd have nobody tracking out o ' my house ; when I 'm gone , she may do as she likes . 
`` No , '' said Mr Hackit , who was fond of soothing the acerbities of the feminine mind with a jocose compliment , `` you held your petticoats so high , to show your tight ankles : it is n't everybody as likes to show her ankles . '' 
This joke met with general acceptance , even from the snubbed Janet , whose ankles were only tight in the sense of looking extremely squeezed by her boots . 
But Janet seemed always to identify herself with her aunt 's personality , holding her own under protest . 
Janet had scarcely reached the end of her circumstantial narrative how the attack came on and what were her aunt 's sensations -- a narrative to which Mrs Patten , in her neatly-plaited night-cap , seemed to listen with a contemptuous resignation to her niece 's historical inaccuracy , contenting herself with occasionally confounding Janet by a shake of the head -- when the clatter of a horse 's hoofs on the yard pavement announced the arrival of Mr Pilgrim , whose large , top-booted person presently made its appearance up-stairs . 
For my part , I never thought well of the marriage ; and I endeavoured to dissuade my brother when Mrs Raynor asked him to give Janet away at the wedding . 
Mrs Raynor herself was against the connection at first ; but she always spoiled Janet , and I fear , too , she was won over by a foolish pride in having her daughter marry a professional man . 
`` Well , '' said Mrs Pettifer , `` Janet had nothing to look to but being a governess ; and it was hard for Mrs Raynor to have to work at millinering -- a woman well brought up , and her husband a man who held his head as high as any man in Thurston . 
Robert Dempster was the cleverest man in Milby ; and there were n't many young men fit to talk to Janet . '' 
`` It is a thousand pities , '' said Miss Pratt , choosing to ignore Mrs Pettifer 's slight sarcasm , `` for I certainly did consider Janet Raynor the most promising young woman of my acquaintance ; -- a little too much lifted up , perhaps , by her superior education , and too much given to satire , but able to express herself very well indeed about any book I recommended to her perusal . 
There is no young woman in Milby now who can be compared with what Janet was when she was married , either in mind or person . 
I consider Miss Landor far , far below her . 
`` She made the handsomest bride that ever came out of Milby church , too , '' said Mrs Pettifer . 
and it showed off her white poplin so well . 
And what a pretty smile Janet always had ! 
`` Janet ! '' 
`` Janet ! '' 
There was a portrait of Janet 's mother , a grey-haired , dark-eyed old woman , in a neatly-fluted cap , hanging over the mantelpiece . 
Surely the aged eyes take on a look of anguish as they see Janet -- not trembling , no ! 
it would be better if she trembled -- standing stupidly unmoved in her great beauty , while the heavy arm is lifted to strike her . 
Was it for this you kept the little worn morocco shoes Janet had first run in , and kissed them day by day when she was away from you , a tall girl at school ? 
Was it for this you looked proudly at her when she came back to you in her rich pale beauty , like a tall white arum that has just unfolded its grand pure curves to the sun ? 
She too has a picture over her mantelpiece , drawn in chalk by Janet long years ago . 
She looked at it before she went to bed . 
Mrs Raynor has had her breakfast , and is seated in her arm-chair reading , when Janet opens the door , saying , in her most playful voice , -- `` Please , mother , I 'm come to show myself to you before I go to the Parsonage . 
She was a much smaller woman than Janet , both in figure and feature , the chief resemblance lying in the eyes and the clear brunette complexion . 
The mother 's hair had long been grey , and was gathered under the neatest of caps , made by her own clever fingers , as all Janet 's caps and bonnets were too . 
`` Your bonnet wants pulling a trifle forwarder , my child , '' she said , smiling , and taking off her spectacles , while Janet at once knelt down before her , and waited to be `` set to rights , '' as she would have done when she was a child . 
I would n't mind , Janet , if it was to feed all the old hungry cripples in Milby ; but so much trouble and expense for people who eat too much every day of their lives ! ' 
The mother leaned back in her chair when Janet was gone , and sank into a painful reverie . 
Janet looked glad and tender now -- but what scene of misery was coming next ? 
She was too like the cistus flowers in the little garden before the window , that , with the shades of evening , might lie with the delicate white and glossy dark of their petals trampled in the roadside dust . 
When the sun had sunk , and the twilight was deepening , Janet might be sitting there , heated , maddened , sobbing out her griefs with selfish passion , and wildly wishing herself dead . 
Mr Crewe was already calmly smoking his pipe in the opposite sitting-room , and Janet was agreeing with Mrs Crewe that some of the blanc-mange would be a nice thing to take to Sally Martin , while the little old lady herself had a spoon in her hand ready to gather the crumbs into a plate , that she might scatter them on the gravel for the little birds . 
Thus the day , which had been one of Janet 's happiest , because it had been spent by her in helping her dear old friend Mrs Crewe , ended for her with unusual quietude ; and as a bright sunset promises a fair morning , so a calm lying down is a good augury for a calm waking . 
The unlikeness between Janet and her mother-in-law went deeper than outline and complexion , and indeed there was little sympathy between them , for old Mrs Dempster had not yet learned to believe that her son , Robert , would have gone wrong if he had married the right woman -- a meek woman like herself , who would have borne him children , and been a deft , orderly housekeeper . 
In spite of Janet 's tenderness and attention to her , she had had little love for her daughter-in-law from the first , and had witnessed the sad growth of home-misery through long years , always with a disposition to lay the blame on the wife rather than on the husband , and to reproach Mrs Raynor for encouraging her daughter 's faults by a too exclusive sympathy . 
Patient and mute she sat at her knitting through many a scene of quarrel and anguish ; resolutely she appeared unconscious of the sounds that reached her ears , and the facts she divined after she had retired to her bed ; mutely she witnessed poor Janet 's faults , only registering them as a balance of excuse on the side of her son . 
`` I declare mammy looks younger than Mrs Crewe , who is only sixty-five , '' said Janet . 
He presently thumped the table with an air of exultation , and said , turning to Janet , -- `` I 've a capital idea , Gipsy ! '' 
said Janet , her face beaming at the sound of the pet name , now heard so seldom . 
said Janet , clapping her hands . 
She would just then have pretended to like almost anything , in her pleasure at being appealed to by her husband , and she really did like to laugh at the Tryanites . 
`` But she will want a parasol , '' said Janet . 
The little old lady took her son 's arm with placid pleasure . 
She could barely reach it so as to rest upon it , but he inclined a little towards her , and accommodated his heavy long-limbed steps to her feeble pace . 
The cat chose to sun herself too , and walked close beside them , with tail erect , rubbing her sleek sides against their legs , and too well fed to be excited by the twittering birds . 
As they were returning to the house , Janet met them , and said , `` Now , Robert , the writing things are ready . 
Mammy once more deposited in her arm-chair , with her knitting in her hand , and the cat purring at her elbow , Janet seated herself at the table , while Mr Dempster placed himself near her , took out his snuff-box , and plentifully suffusing himself with the inspiring powder , began to dictate . 
One day , when the old gentleman was coming up Orchard Street on his roan mare , shaking the bridle , and tickling her flank with the whip as usual , though there was a perfect mutual understanding that she was not to quicken her pace , Janet happened to be on her own door-step , and he could not resist the temptation of stopping to speak to that `` nice little woman , '' as he always called her , though she was taller than all the rest of his feminine acquaintances . 
Janet , in spite of her disposition of take her husband 's part in all public matters , could bear no malice against her old friend ; so they shook hands . 
Janet made the interview as shot as she could , but it was not short enough to escape the observation of her husband , who , as she feared , was on his mid-day return from his office at the other end of the street , and this offence of hers , in speaking to Mr Jerome , was the frequently recurring theme of Mr Dempster 's objurgatory domestic eloquence . 
In her occasional visits to her near neighbour Mrs Pettifer , too old a friend to be shunned because she was a Tryanite , Janet was obliged sometimes to hear allusions to Mr Tryan , and even to listen to his praises , which she usually met with playful incredulity . 
A few days after this conversation , however , Janet went to Sally Martin 's about three o'clock in the afternoon . 
The pudding that had been sent in for herself and `` Mammy , '' struck her as just the sort of delicate morsel the poor consumptive girl would be likely to fancy , and in her usual impulsive way she had started up from the dinner-table at once , put on her bonnet , and set off with a covered plateful to the neighbouring street . 
When she entered the house there was no one to be seen ; but in the little side-room where Sally lay , Janet heard a voice . 
It was one she had not heard before , but she immediately guessed it to be Mr Tryan 's . 
Her first impulse was to set down her plate and go away , but Mrs Martin might not be in , and then there would be no one to give Sally that delicious bit of pudding . 
Janet was surprised , and forgot her wish not to encounter Mr Tryan ; the tone and the words were so unlike what she had expected to hear . 
The most brilliant deed of virtue could not have inclined Janet 's goodwill towards Mr Tryan so much as this fellowship in suffering , and the softening thought was in her eyes when he appeared in the doorway , pale , weary , and depressed . 
The sight of Janet standing there with the entire absence of self-consciousness which belongs to a new and vivid impression , made him start and pause a little . 
The fullest exposition of Mr Tryan 's doctrine might not have sufficed to convince Janet that he had not an odious self-complacency in believing himself a peculiar child of God ; but one direct , pathetic look of his had dissociated him with that conception for ever . 
Janet mentioned her new impression to no one , for she was afraid of arriving at a still more complete contradiction of her former ideas . 
Janet could no longer think of Mr Tryan without sympathy , but she still shrank from the idea of becoming his hearer and admirer . 
That was a reversal of the past which was as little accordant with her inclination as her circumstances . 
And indeed this interview with Mr Tryan was soon thrust into the background of poor Janet 's memory by the daily thickening miseries of her life . 
Poor Janet ! 
how heavily the months rolled on for her , laden with fresh sorrows as the summer passed into autumn , the autumn into winter , and the winter into spring again . 
The morning light brought no gladness to her : it seemed only to throw its glare on what had happened in the dim candle-light -- on the cruel man seated immovable in drunken obstinacy by the dead fire and dying lights in the dining-room , rating her in harsh tones , reiterating old reproaches -- or on a hideous blank of something unremembered , something that must have made that dark bruise on her shoulder , which aches as she dresses herself . 
Do you wonder how it was that things had come to this pass -- what offence Janet had committed in the early years of marriage to rouse the brutal hatred of this man ? 
The seeds of things are very small : the hours that lie between sunrise and the gloom of midnight are travelled through by tiniest markings of the clock : and Janet , looking back along the fifteen years of her married life , hardly knew how or where this total misery began ; hardly knew when the sweet wedded love and hope that had set for ever had ceased to make a twilight of memory and relenting , before the oncoming of the utter dark . 
Old Mrs Dempster thought she saw the true beginning of it all in Janet 's want of housekeeping skill and exactness . 
`` Janet , '' she said to herself , `` was always running about doing things for other people , and neglecting her own house . 
Then , Janet had no children . '' 
there Mammy Dempster had touched a true spring , not perhaps of her son 's cruelty , but of half Janet 's misery . 
If she had had babes to rock to sleep -- little ones to kneel in their night-dress and say their prayers at her knees -- sweet boys and girls to put their young arms round her neck and kiss away her tears , her poor hungry heart would have been fed with strong love , and might never have needed that fiery poison to still its cravings . 
Yes ; if Janet had been a mother , she might have been saved from much sin , and therefore from much of her sorrow . 
But do not believe that it was anything either present or wanting in poor Janet that formed the motive of her husband 's cruelty . 
Janet 's bitterness would overflow in ready words ; she was not to be made meek by cruelty ; she would repent of nothing in the face of injustice , though she was subdued in a moment by a word or a look that recalled the old days of fondness ; and in times of comparative calm would often recover her sweet woman 's habit of caressing playful affection . 
But such days were become rare , and poor Janet 's soul was kept like a vexed sea , tossed by a new storm before the old waves have fallen . 
Proud , angry resistance and sullen endurance were now almost the only alternations she knew . 
She would bear it all proudly to the world , but proudly towards him too ; her woman 's weakness might shriek a cry for pity under a heavy blow , but voluntarily she would do nothing to mollify him , unless he first relented . 
What had she ever done to him but love him too well -- but believe in him too foolishly ? 
He had no pity on her tender flesh ; he could strike the soft neck he had once asked to kiss . 
Yet she would not admit her wretchedness ; she had married him blindly , and she would bear it out to the terrible end , whatever that might be . 
Better this misery than the blank that lay for her outside her married home . 
But there was one person who heard all the plaints and all the outbursts of bitterness and despair which Janet was never tempted to pour into any other ear ; and alas ! 
in her worst moments , Janet would throw out wild reproaches against that patient listener . 
She had evidence enough of it in Janet 's visits to her ; and , though her own visits to her daughter were so timed that she saw little of Dempster personally , she noticed many indications not only that he was drinking to greater excess , but that he was beginning to lose that physical power of supporting excess which had long been the admiration of such fine spirits as Mr Tomlinson . 
Nemesis is lame , but she is of colossal stature , like the gods ; and sometimes , while her sword is not yet unsheathed , she stretches out her huge left arm and grasps her victim . 
She was scarcely ever seen , as she used to be , going about on her good-natured errands ; and even old Mrs Crewe , who had always been wilfully blind to anything wrong in her favourite Janet , was obliged to admit that she had not seemed like herself lately . 
`` The poor thing 's out of health , '' said the kind little old lady , in answer to all gossip about Janet ; `` her headaches always were bad , and I know what headaches are ; why , they make one quite delirious sometimes . '' 
The previous night had been a terrible one for Janet , and when her husband broke his grim morning silence to say these few words , she was looking so blank and listless that he added in a loud sharp key , `` Do you hear what I say ? 
She started , and said `` Yes , I hear . '' 
She hurried out of the kitchen , and there in the passage , as she had felt , stood Janet , her eyes worn as if by night-long watching , her dress careless , her step languid . 
No cheerful morning greeting to her mother -- no kiss . 
She turned into the parlour , and , seating herself on the sofa opposite her mother 's chair , looked vacantly at the walls and furniture until the corners of her mouth began to tremble , and her dark eyes filled with tears that fell unwiped down her cheeks . 
Janet burst out at last ; `` you do n't care about my suffering ; you are blaming me because I feel -- because I am miserable . '' 
`` Janet , Janet , do n't say so . 
`` Janet , my child , there is pity . 
Janet 's nervous irritation now broke out into sobs instead of complainings ; and her mother was thankful , for after that crisis there would very likely come relenting , and tenderness , and comparative calm . 
She went out to make some tea , and when she returned with the tray in her hands , Janet had dried her eyes and now turned them towards her mother with a faint attempt to smile ; but the poor face , in its sad blurred beauty , looked all the more piteous . 
`` Mother will insist upon her tea , '' she said , `` and I really think I can drink a cup . 
She went to Orchard Street with Janet , and remained with her through the day -- comforted , as evening approached , to see her become more cheerful and willing to attend to her toilette . 
At half-past five everything was in order ; Janet was dressed ; and when the mother had kissed her and said good-by , she could not help pausing a moment in sorrowful admiration at the tall rich figure , looking all the grander for the plainness of the deep mourning dress , and the noble face with its massy folds of black hair , made matronly by a simple white cap . 
Janet had that enduring beauty which belongs to pure majestic outline and depth of tint . 
He had evidently drunk a great deal , and was in an angry humour ; but Janet , who had gathered some little courage and forbearance from the consciousness that she had done her best to-day , was determined to speak pleasantly to him . 
`` Robert , '' she said gently , as she saw him seat himself in the dining-room in his dusty snuffy clothes , and take some documents out of his pocket , `` will you not wash and change your dress ? 
Janet had often been scolded before for not laying out his clothes , and she thought now , not without some wonder , that this attention of hers had brought him to compliance . 
Presently he called out , `` Janet ! '' 
and she went up-stairs . 
he said , as soon as she reached the door , flinging at her the coat she had laid out . 
The coat , flung with great force , only brushed her shoulder , and fell some distance within the drawing-room , the door of which stood open just opposite . 
She hastily retreated as she saw the waistcoat coming , and one by one the clothes she had laid out were all flung into the drawing-room . 
Janet 's face flushed with anger , and for the first time in her life her resentment overcame the longcherished pride that made her hide her griefs from the world . 
Janet thought , `` I will not pick up the clothes ; they shall lie there until the visitors come , and he shall be ashamed of himself . '' 
There was a knock at the door , and she made haste to seat herself in the drawing-room , lest the servant should enter and remove the clothes , which were lying half on the table and half on the ground . 
His eye fell at once on the clothes , and then turned for an instant with a devilish glance of concentrated hatred on Janet , who , still flushed and excited , affected unconsciousness . 
`` Take those clothes away , '' he said to the servant , not looking at Janet again . 
Janet began to hope that he would stay long enough for Dempster to become heavy and stupid , and so to fall asleep down stairs , which was a rare , but occasional ending of his nights . 
She told the servants to sit up no longer , and she herself undressed and went to bed , trying to cheat her imagination into the belief that the day was ended for her . 
But when she lay down , she became more intensely awake than ever . 
Everything she had taken this evening seemed only to stimulate her senses and her apprehensions to new vividness . 
Her heart beat violently , and she heard every sound in the house . 
At last , when it was twelve , she heard Mr Budd go out ; she heard the door slam . 
The minute seemed long , while , with a quickening pulse , she was on the stretch to catch every sound . 
`` Janet ! '' 
The loud jarring voice seemed to strike her like a hurled weapon . 
`` Janet ! '' 
Another pause , and she heard him turn back into the dining-room . 
Perhaps he would kill her . 
For years she had been rushing on to some unknown but certain horror ; and now she was close upon it . 
She was almost glad . 
She was in a state of flushed feverish defiance that neutralised her woman 's terrors . 
She heard his heavy step on the stairs ; she saw the slowly advancing light . 
Then she saw the tall massive figure , and the heavy face , now fierce with drunken rage . 
In the close presence of the dreadful man -- of this huge crushing force , armed with savage will -- poor Janet 's desperate defiance all forsook her , and her terrors came back . 
Trembling she got up , and stood helpless in her night-dress before her husband . 
He seized her with his heavy grasp by the shoulder , and pushed her before him . 
Slowly he pushed her along before him , down stairs and through the passage , where a small oil-lamp was still flickering . 
What was he going to do to her ? 
She thought every moment he was going to dash her before him on the ground . 
But she gave no scream -- she only trembled . 
He pushed her on to the entrance , and held her firmly in his grasp , while he lifted the latch of the door . 
Then he opened the door a little way , thrust her out , and slammed it behind her . 
For a short space , it seemed like a deliverance to Janet . 
The harsh north-east wind , that blew through her thin night-dress , and sent her long heavy black hair streaming , seemed like the breath of pity after the grasp of that threatening monster . 
But soon the sense of release from an overpowering terror gave way before the sense of the fate that had really come upon her . 
This , then , was what she had been travelling towards through her long years of misery ! 
if she had been brave enough for it , death would have been better . 
The servants slept at the back of the house ; it was impossible to make them hear , so that they might let her in again quietly , without her husband 's knowledge . 
And she would not have tried . 
He had thrust her out , and it should be for ever . 
No ray of light fell on the tall white figure that stood in lonely misery on the door-step ; no eye rested on Janet as she sank down on the cold stone , and looked into the dismal night . 
She seemed to be looking into her own blank future . 
When Janet sat down shivering on the door-stone , with the door shut upon her past life , and the future black and unshapen before her as the night , the scenes of her childhood , her youth and her painful womanhood , rushed back upon her consciousness , and made one picture with her present desolation . 
The petted child taking her newest toy to bed with her -- the young girl , proud in strength and beauty , dreaming that life was an easy thing , and that it was pitiful weakness to be unhappy -- the bride , passing with trembling joy from the outer court to the inner sanctuary of woman 's life -- the wife , beginning her initiation into sorrow , wounded , resenting , yet still hoping and forgiving -- the poor bruised woman , seeking through weary years the one refuge of despair , oblivion : -- Janet seemed to herself all these in the same moment that she was conscious of being seated on the cold stone under the shock of a new misery . 
All her early gladness , all her bright hopes and illusions , all her gifts of beauty and affection , served only to darken the riddle of her life ; they were the betraying promises of a cruel destiny which had brought out those sweet blossoms only that the winds and storms might have a greater work of desolation , which had nursed her like a pet fawn into tenderness and fond expectation , only that she might feel a keener terror in the clutch of the panther . 
Her mother had sometimes said that troubles were sent to make us better and draw us nearer to God . 
What mockery that seemed to Janet ! 
Her troubles had been sinking her lower from year to year , pressing upon her like heavy fever-laden vapours , and perverting the very plenitude of her nature into a deeper source of disease . 
Her wretchedness had been a perpetually tightening instrument of torture , which had gradually absorbed all the other sensibilities of her nature into the sense of pain and the maddened craving for relief . 
Oh , if some ray of hope , of pity , of consolation , would pierce through the horrible gloom , she might believe then in a Divine love -- in a heavenly Father who cared for His children ! 
But now she had no faith , no trust . 
There was nothing she could lean on in the wide world , for her mother was only a fellow-sufferer in her own lot . 
The poor patient woman could do little more than mourn with her daughter : she had humble resignation enough to sustain her own soul , but she could no more give comfort and fortitude to Janet , than the withered ivy-covered trunk can bear up its strong , full-boughed offspring crashing down under an Alpine storm . 
Janet felt she was alone : no human soul had measured her anguish , had understood her self-despair , had entered into her sorrows and her sins with that deep-sighted sympathy which is wiser than all blame , more potent than all reproof -- such sympathy as had swelled her own heart for many a sufferer . 
And if there was any Divine Pity , she could not feel it ; it kept aloof from her , it poured no balm into her wounds , it stretched out no hand to bear up her weak resolve , to fortify her fainting courage . 
Now , in her utmost loneliness , she shed no tear : she sat staring fixedly into the darkness , while inwardly she gazed at her own past , almost losing the sense that it was her own , or that she was anything more than a spectator at a strange and dreadful play . 
The loud sound of the church clock striking one , startled her . 
She had not been there more than half an hour , then ? 
And it seemed to her as if she had been there half the night . 
She was getting benumbed with cold . 
With that strong instinctive dread of pain and death which had made her recoil from suicide , she started up , and the disagreeable sensation of resting on her benumbed feet helped to recall her completely to the sense of the present . 
The wind was beginning to make rents in the clouds , and there came every now and then a dim light of stars that frightened her more than the darkness ; it was like a cruel finger pointing her out in her wretchedness and humiliation ; it made her shudder at the thought of the morning twilight . 
What could she do ? 
Not go to her mother -- not rouse her in the dead of night to tell her this . 
Her mother would think she was a spectre ; it would be enough to kill her with horror . 
And the way there was so long ... if she should meet some one ... yet she must seek some shelter , somewhere to hide herself . 
Janet trod slowly with her naked feet on the rough pavement , trembling at the fitful gleams of starlight , and supporting herself by the wall , as the gusts of wind drove right against her . 
The very wind was cruel : it tried to push her back from the door where she wanted to go and knock and ask for pity . 
Janet turned up the archway , and saw a faint light coming from Mrs Pettifer 's bedroom window . 
The glimmer of a rushlight from a room where a friend was lying , was like a ray of mercy to Janet , after that long , long time of darkness and loneliness ; it would not be so dreadful to awake Mrs Pettifer as she had thought . 
And she had heard it , for by-and-by the casement of her window was opened , and Janet perceived that she was bending out to try and discern who it was at the door . 
`` Come in , my poor dear , come in , '' said the good woman in a tremulous voice , drawing Janet within the door . 
The pitying eyes , the tender voice , the warm touch , caused a rush of new feeling in Janet . 
Her heart swelled , and she burst out suddenly , like a child , into loud passionate sobs . 
But it was long before Janet could lie down . 
She sat leaning her head on her knees , convulsed by sobs , while the motherly woman covered her with clothes and held her arms round her to comfort her with warmth . 
Now Janet was getting quieter , Mrs Pettifer determined to go down and make a cup of tea , the first thing a kind old woman thinks of as a solace and restorative under all calamities . 
When she carried up the tea , Janet was lying quite still ; the spasmodic agitation had ceased , and she seemed lost in thought ; her eyes were fixed vacantly on the rushlight shade , and all the lines of sorrow were deepened in her face . 
Janet turned her dark eyes on her old friend and stretched out her arms . 
She was too much oppressed to say anything ; her suffering lay like a heavy weight on her power of speech ; but she wanted to kiss the good kind woman . 
Mrs Pettifer , setting down the cup , bent towards the sad beautiful face , and Janet kissed her with earnest sacramental kisses -- such kisses as seal a new and closer bond between the helper and the helped . 
She drank the tea obediently . 
`` It does warm me , '' she said . 
She hoped Janet might go to sleep . 
As for herself , with that tendency to wakefulness common to advanced years , she found it impossible to compose herself to sleep again after this agitating surprise . 
She lay listening to the clock , wondering what had led to this new outrage of Dempster 's , praying for the poor thing at her side , and pitying the mother who would have to hear it all tomorrow . 
Janet lay still , as she had promised ; but the tea , which had warmed her and given her a sense of greater bodily ease , had only heightened the previous excitement of her brain . 
Her ideas had a new vividness , which made her feel as if she had only seen life through a dim haze before ; her thoughts , instead of springing from the action of her own mind , were external existences , that thrust themselves imperiously upon her like haunting visions . 
The future took shape after shape of misery before her , always ending in her being dragged back again to her old life of terror , and stupor , and fevered despair . 
Her husband had so long overshadowed her life that her imagination could not keep hold of a condition in which that great dread was absent ; and even his absence -- what was it ? 
At last , the light of morning quenched the rushlight , and Janet 's thoughts became more and more fragmentary and confused . 
She was every moment slipping off the level on which she lay thinking , down , down into some depth from which she tried to rise again with a start . 
Slumber was stealing over her weary brain : that uneasy slumber which is only better than wretched waking , because the life we seem to live in it determines no wretched future , because the things we do and suffer in it are but hateful shadows , and leave no impress that petrifies into an irrevocable past . 
She had scarcely been asleep an hour when her movements became more violent , her mutterings more frequent and agitated , till at last she started up with a smothered cry , and looked wildly round her , shaking with terror . 
Janet sank back again on her pillow , still trembling . 
After lying silent a little while , she said , `` It was a horrible dream . 
That moment of intensest depression was come to Janet , when the daylight which showed her the walls , and chairs , and tables , and all the commonplace reality that surrounded her , seemed to lay bare the future too , and bring out into oppressive distinctness all the details of a weary life to be lived from day to day , with no hope to strengthen her against that evil habit , which she loathed in retrospect and yet was powerless to resist . 
Her husband would never consent to her living away from him : she was become necessary to his tyranny ; he would never willingly loosen his grasp on her . 
She had a vague notion of some protection the law might give her , if she could prove her life in danger from him ; but she shrank utterly , as she had always done , from any active , public resistance or vengeance : she felt too crushed , too faulty , too liable to reproach , to have the courage , even if she had had the wish , to put herself openly in the position of a wronged woman seeking redress . 
If Janet went away alone , he would be sure to persecute her mother ; and if she did go away -- what then ? 
She must work to maintain herself ; she must exert herself , weary and hopeless as she was , to begin life afresh . 
How hard that seemed to her ! 
Janet 's nature did not belie her grand face and form : there was energy , there was strength in it ; but it was the strength of the vine , which must have its broad leaves and rich clusters borne up by a firm stay . 
And now she had nothing to rest on -- no faith , no love . 
If her mother had been very feeble , aged , or sickly , Janet 's deep pity and tenderness might have made a daughter 's duties an interest and a solace ; but Mrs Raynor had never needed tendance ; she had always been giving help to her daughter ; she had always been a sort of humble ministering spirit ; and it was one of Janet 's pangs of memory , that instead of being her mother 's comfort , she had been her mother 's trial . 
Her life was a sun-dried , barren tract , where there was no shadow , and where all the waters were bitter . 
She suddenly thought -- and the thought was like an electric shock -- there was one spot in her memory which seemed to promise her an untried spring , where the waters might be sweet . 
That short interview with Mr Tryan had come back upon her -- his voice , his words , his look , which told her that he knew sorrow . 
That look of his came back on her with a vividness greater than it had had for her in reality : surely he knew more of the secrets of sorrow than other men ; perhaps he had some message of comfort , different from the feeble words she had been used to hear from others . 
She was tired , she was sick of that barren exhortation -- Do right , and keep a clear conscience , and God will reward you , and your troubles will be easier to bear . 
She wanted strength to do right -- she wanted something to rely on besides her own resolutions ; for was not the path behind her all strewn with broken resolutions ? 
How could she trust in new ones ? 
She had often heard Mr Tryan laughed at for being fond of great sinners . 
She began to see a new meaning in those words ; he would perhaps understand her helplessness , her wants . 
If she could pour out her heart to him ! 
if she could for the first time in her life unlock all the chambers of her soul ! 
When Mrs Pettifer came back to her , turning the key and opening the door very gently , Janet , instead of being asleep , as her good friend had hoped , was intensely occupied with her new thought . 
She longed to ask Mrs Pettifer if she could see Mr Tryan ; but she was arrested by doubts and timidity . 
He might not feel for her -- he might be shocked at her confession -- he might talk to her of doctrines she could not understand or believe . 
She could not make up her mind yet ; but she was too restless under this mental struggle to remain in bed . 
`` Mrs Pettifer , '' she said , `` I ca n't lie here any longer ; I must get up . 
Wrapt in such drapery as Mrs Pettifer could find for her tall figure , Janet went down into the little parlour , and tried to take some of the break-fast her friend had prepared for her . 
But her effort was not a successful one ; her cup of tea and bit of toast were only half finished . 
The leaden weight of discouragement pressed upon her more and more heavily . 
The wind had fallen , and a drizzling rain had come on ; there was no prospect from Mrs Pettifer 's parlour but a blank wall ; and as Janet looked out at the window , the rain and the smoke-blackened bricks seemed to blend them-selves in sickening identity with her desolation of spirit and the headachy weariness of her body . 
Mrs Pettifer got through her household work as soon as she could , and sat down with her sewing , hoping that Janet would perhaps be able to talk a little of what had passed , and find some relief by unbosoming herself in that way . 
But Janet could not speak to her ; she was importuned with the longing to see Mr Tryan , and yet hesitating to express it . 
The rain went on drizzling , and Janet sat still , leaning her aching head on her hand , and looking alternately at the fire and out of the window . 
She felt this could not last -- this motionless , vacant misery . 
She must determine on something , she must take some step ; and yet everything was so difficult . 
The movement and the sound startled Janet from her reverie . 
It seemed as if an opportunity were escaping her , and she said hastily , `` Is Mr Tryan in the town to-day , do you think ? '' 
When Dempster awoke in the morning , he was at no loss to account to himself for the fact that Janet was not by his side . 
His hours of drunkenness were not cut off from his other hours by any blank wall of oblivion ; he remembered what Janet had done to offend him the evening before , he remembered what he had done to her at mid-night , just as he would have remembered if he had been consulted about a right of road . 
But it would be as well for the servants not to know anything of the affair ; so he collected the clothes she had taken off the night before , and threw them into a fire-proof closet of which he always kept the key in his pocket . 
Her messenger had brought back word , that he was not at home , and all afternoon Janet had been agitated by the fear that he would not come ; but as soon as that anxiety was removed by the knock at the door , she felt a sudden rush of doubt and timidity : she trembled and turned cold . 
Janet , wrapped up in a large white shawl which threw her dark face into startling relief , was seated with her eyes turned anxiously towards the door when Mr Tryan entered . 
He had not seen her since their interview at Sally Martin 's long months ago ; and he felt a strong movement of compassion at the sight of the pain-stricken face which seemed to bear written on it the signs of all Janet 's intervening misery . 
Her heart gave a great leap , as her eyes met his once more . 
she had not deceived herself : there was all the sincerity , all the sadness , all the deep pity in them her memory had told her of ; more than it had told her , for in proportion as his face had become thinner and more worn , his eyes appeared to have gathered intensity . 
Janet took his hand in silence . 
She was unable to utter any words of mere politeness , or even of gratitude ; her heart was too full of other words that had welled up the moment she met his pitying glance , and felt her doubts fall away . 
They sat down opposite each other , and she said in a low voice , while slow difficult tears gathered in her aching eyes : -- `` I want to tell you how unhappy I am -- how weak and wicked . 
She paused . 
`` O , I should like to be good and to do right , '' Janet burst forth , `` but indeed , indeed , my lot has been a very hard one . 
While Janet was speaking , she had forgotten everything but her misery and her yearning for comfort . 
Her voice had risen from the low tone of timid distress to an intense pitch of imploring anguish . 
She clasped her hands tightly , and looked at Mr Tryan with eager questioning eyes , with parted , trembling lips , with the deep horizontal lines of overmastering pain on her brow . 
`` But , '' said Janet , `` I can feel no trust in God . 
He saw that the first thing Janet needed was to be assured of sympathy . 
She must be made to feel that her anguish was not strange to him ; that he entered into the only half-expressed secrets of her spiritual weakness , before any other message of consolation could find its way to her heart . 
And Janet 's anguish was not strange to Mr Tryan . 
Mr Tryan felt this prompting , and his judgment too told him that in obeying it he would be taking the best means of administering comfort to Janet . 
Mr Tryan had been looking away from Janet . 
But now he turned his eyes on her , and they met hers , fixed on him with the look of rapt expectation with which one clinging to a slippery summit of rock , while the waves are rising higher and higher , watches the boat that has put from shore to his rescue . 
`` That is what I want , '' said Janet ; `` I have left off minding about pleasure . 
For a moment he had forgotten Janet , and for a moment she had forgotten her own sorrows . 
When she recurred to herself , it was with a new feeling . 
''' `` Pray with me , '' said Janet -- `` pray now that I may have light and strength . '' 
Before leaving Janet , Mr Tryan urged her strongly to send for her mother . 
`` Yes , I will send for her , '' said Janet . 
Janet took it and said , `` God has been very good to me in sending you to me . 
Janet 's dark grand face , still fatigued , had become quite calm , and looked up , as she sat , with a humble childlike expression at the thin blond face and slightly sunken grey eyes which now shone with hectic brightness . 
She might have been taken for an image of passionate strength beaten and worn with conflict ; and he for an image of the self-renouncing faith which has soothed that conflict into rest . 
As he looked at the sweet submissive face , he remembered its look of despairing anguish , and his heart was very full as he turned away from her . 
`` Let me only live to see this work confirmed , and then ... '' It was nearly ten o'clock when Mr Tryan left , but Janet was bent on sending for her mother ; so Mrs Pettifer , as the readiest plan , put on her bonnet and went herself to fetch Mrs Raynor . 
When they entered the parlour , Janet , wearied out , had sunk to sleep in the large chair , which stood with its back to the door . 
The noise of the opening door disturbed her , and she was looking round wonderingly , when Mrs Raynor came up to her chair , and said , `` It 's your mother , Janet . '' 
Janet cried , clasping her closely . 
On Sunday morning the rain had ceased , and Janet , looking out of the bedroom window , saw , above the house-tops , a shining mass of white cloud rolling under the far-away blue sky . 
The fresh sky , left clear and calm after the long vexation of wind and rain , mingled its mild influence with Janet 's new thoughts and prospects . 
She felt a buoyant courage that surprised herself , after the cold crushing weight of despondency which had oppressed her the day before : she could think even of her husband 's rage without the old overpowering dread . 
For a delicious hope -- the hope of purification and inward peace -- had entered into Janet 's soul , and made it spring-time there as well as in the outer world . 
While her mother was brushing and coiling up her thick black hair -- a favourite task , because it seemed to renew the days of her daughter 's girl-hood -- Janet told how she came to send for Mr Tryan , how she had remembered their meeting at Sally Martin 's in the autumn , and had felt an irresistible desire to see him , and tell him her sins and her troubles . 
said Janet , after a few minutes ' silence . 
The good mother , on learning that Dempster was not at home , had at once thought that she could gratify Janet 's wish to go to Paddiford church . 
Many eyes were turned on Janet with a look of surprise as she walked up the aisle of Paddiford church . 
She felt a little tremor at the notice she knew she was exciting , but it was a strong satisfaction to her that she had been able at once to take a step that would let her neighbours know her change of feeling towards Mr Tryan : she had left herself now no room for proud reluctance or weak hesitation . 
The walk through the sweet spring air had stimulated all her fresh hopes , all her yearning desires after purity , strength , and peace . 
She thought she should find a new meaning in the prayers this morning ; her full heart , like an overflowing river , wanted those ready-made channels to pour itself into ; and then she should hear Mr Tryan again , and his words would fall on her like precious balm , as they had done last night . 
There was a liquid brightness in her eyes as they rested on the mere walls , the pews , the weavers and colliers in their Sunday clothes . 
The commonest things seemed to touch the spring of love within her , just as , when we are suddenly released from an acute absorbing bodily pain , our heart and senses leap out in new freedom ; we think even the noise of streets harmonious , and are ready to hug the tradesman who is wrapping up our change . 
A door had been opened in Janet 's cold dark prison of self-despair , and the golden light of morning was pouring in its slanting beams through the blessed opening . 
There was sunlight in the world ; there was a divine love caring for her ; it had given her an earnest of good things ; it had been preparing comfort for her in the very moment when she had thought herself most forsaken . 
Mr Tryan might well rejoice when his eye rested on her as he entered his desk ; but he rejoiced with trembling . 
Janet 's appearance at church was greeted not only by wondering eyes , but by kind hearts , and after the service several of Mr Tryan 's hearers with whom she had been on cold terms of late , contrived to come up to her and take her by the hand . 
The friendly words and looks touched Janet a little too keenly , and Mrs Pettifer wisely hurried her home by the least-frequented road . 
In the mother 's mind there was the same anxiety , and in her it was mingled with another fear -- the fear lest Janet , in her present excited state of mind , should take some premature step in relation to her husband , which might lead back to all the former troubles . 
The hint she had thrown out in the morning of her wish to return to him after a time , showed a new eagerness for difficult duties , that only made the long-saddened sober mother tremble . 
But as evening approached , Janet 's morning heroism all forsook her : her imagination , influenced by physical depression as well as by mental habits , was haunted by the vision of her husband 's return home , and she began to shudder with the yesterday 's dread . 
She heard him calling her , she saw him going to her mother 's to look for her , she felt sure he would find her out , and burst in upon her . 
`` Pray , pray , do n't leave me , do n't go to church , '' she said to Mrs Pettifer . 
Mr Tryan had gone through the initiation of suffering : it is no wonder , then , that Janet 's restoration was the work that lay nearest his heart ; and that , weary as he was in body when he entered the vestry after the evening service , he was impatient to fulfil the promise of seeing her . 
His experience enabled him to divine -- what was the fact -- that the hopefulness of the morning would be followed by a return of depression and discouragement , and his sense of the inward and outward difficulties in the way of her restoration was so keen , that he could only find relief from the foreboding it excited by lifting up his heart in prayer . 
When Mrs Pettifer opened the door for Mr Tryan , he told her in few words what had happened , and begged her to take an opportunity of letting Mrs Raynor know , that they might , if possible , concur in preventing a premature or sudden disclosure of the event to Janet . 
When Mr Tryan entered the parlour this time , Janet was again awaiting him eagerly , and her pale sad face was lighted up with a smile as she rose to meet him . 
But the next moment she said , with a look of anxiety , `` How very ill and tired you look ! 
While Mr Tryan was speaking to Mrs Raynor , Janet hurried out , and he , seeing that this goodnatured thoughtfulness on his behalf would help to counteract her depression , was not inclined to oppose her wish , but accepted the supper Mrs Pettifer offered him , quietly talking the while about a clothing club he was going to establish in Paddiford , and the want of provident habits among the poor . 
When Janet was left alone with Mr Tryan , she said , `` I feel so uncertain what to do about my husband . 
The next morning Janet was so much calmer , and at breakfast spoke so decidedly of going to her mother 's , that Mrs Pettifer and Mrs Raynor agreed it would be wise to let her know by degrees what had befallen her husband , since as soon as she went out there would be danger of her meeting some one who would betray the fact . 
But Mrs Raynor thought it would be well first to call at Dempster 's , and ascertain how he was : so she said to Janet , `` My dear , I 'll go home first , and see to things , and get your room ready . 
Janet had dipped into the Life of Henry Martyn , which Mrs Pettifer had from the Paddiford Lending Library , and her interest was so arrested by that pathetic missionary story , that she readily acquiesced in both propositions , and Mrs Raynor set out . 
She had been gone more than an hour , and it was nearly twelve o'clock , when Janet put down her book ; and after sitting meditatively for some minutes with her eyes unconsciously fixed on the opposite wall , she rose , went to her bedroom , and , hastily putting on her bonnet and shawl , came down to Mrs Pettifer , who was busy in the kitchen . 
She ran off before Mrs Pettifer could utter another word of dissuasion , leaving the good woman in considerable anxiety lest this new impulse of Janet 's should frustrate all precautions to save her from a sudden shock . 
Janet , having paid her visit in Butcher Lane , turned again into Orchard Street on her way to Mrs Crewe 's , and was thinking , rather sadly , that her mother 's economical housekeeping would leave no abundant surplus to be sent to the hungry Lakins , when she saw Mr Pilgrim in advance of her on the other side of the street . 
Janet was startled . 
It was her husband ; she felt certain of it at once . 
Without a moment 's pause , she ran across the street , opened the door and entered . 
She rushed up at once to Dempster 's room -- her own room . 
The door was open , and she paused in pale horror at the sight before her , which seemed to stand out only with the more appalling distinctness because the noon-day light was darkened to twilight in the chamber . 
... '' `` No , Robert , '' Janet cried , in tones of yearning pity , rushing to the side of the bed , and stretching out her arms towards him , `` no , here is Janet . 
She is not dead -- she forgives you . '' 
Dempster 's maddened senses seemed to receive some new impression from her appearance . 
I 'll make a fire under you , and smoke off the whole pack of you ... I 'll sweep you up ... I 'll grind you to powder ... small powder ... -LRB- here his voice dropt to a low tone of shuddering disgust -RRB- ... powder on the bed-clothes ... running about ... black lice ... they are coming in swarms ... Janet ! 
Janet ! '' 
Poor Janet was kneeling by the bed with her face buried in her hands . 
She almost wished her worst moment back again rather than this . 
It seemed as if her husband was already imprisoned in misery , and she could not reach him -- his ear deaf for ever to the sounds of love and forgiveness . 
His sins had made a hard crust round his soul ; her pitying voice could not pierce it . 
`` Not there , is n't she ? '' 
`` Why do you ask me where she is ? 
Janet ! 
come and take the toads away ... Janet ! '' 
This last time he uttered her name with such a shriek of terror , that Janet involuntarily started up from her knees , and stood as if petrified by the horrible vibration . 
Dempster stared wildly in silence for some moments ; then he spoke again in a hoarse whisper : -- `` Dead ... is she dead ? 
She did it , then . 
She buried herself in the iron chest ... she left her clothes out , though ... she is n't dead ... why do you pretend she 's dead ? 
... she 's coming ... she 's coming out of the iron closet ... there are the black serpents ... stop her ... let me go ... stop her ... she wants to drag me away into the cold black water ... her bosom is black ... it is all serpents ... they are getting longer ... the great white serpents are getting longer . 
Janet gave a scream , and sank on her knees again . 
She thought he was dead . 
As soon as Mr. Pilgrim was able to give her a moment 's attention , he came to her , and , taking her by the arm , attempted to draw her gently out of the room . 
Mr Pilgrim gave way , and Janet , having sent for her mother and put off her bonnet and shawl , returned to take her place by the side of her husband 's bed . 
Day after day , with only short intervals of rest , Janet kept her place in that sad chamber . 
Something of that benign result was felt by Janet during her tendance in her husband 's chamber . 
When the first heart-piercing hours were over -- when her horror at his delirium was no longer fresh , she began to be conscious of her relief from the burthen of decision as to her future course . 
The question that agitated her , about returning to her husband , had been solved in a moment ; and this illness , after all , might be the herald of another blessing , just as that dreadful midnight when she stood an outcast in cold and darkness , had been followed by the dawn of a new hope . 
She would wait on him with such tenderness , such all-forgiving love , that the old harshness and cruelty must melt away for ever under the heart-sunshine she would pour around him . 
Her bosom heaved at the thought , and delicious tears fell . 
Janet 's was a nature in which hatred and revenge could find no place ; the long bitter years drew half their bitterness from her ever-living remembrance of the too short years of love that went before ; and the thought that her husband would ever put her hand to his lips again , and recall the days when they sat on the grass together , and he laid scarlet poppies on her black hair , and called her his gypsy queen , seemed to send a tide of loving oblivion over all the harsh and stony space they had traversed since . 
The Divine Love that had already shone upon her would be with her ; she would lift up her soul continually for help ; Mr Tryan , she knew , would pray for her . 
If she felt herself failing , she would confess it to him at once ; if her feet began to slip , there was that stay for her to cling to . 
O she could never be drawn back into that cold damp vault of sin and despair again ; she had felt the morning sun , she had tasted the sweet pure air of trust and penitence and submission . 
These were the thoughts passing through Janet 's mind as she hovered about her husband 's bed , and these were the hopes she poured out to Mr Tryan when he called to see her . 
It was so evident that they were strengthening her in her new struggle -- they shed such a glow of calm enthusiasm over her face as she spoke of them , that Mr Tryan could not bear to throw on them the chill of premonitory doubts , though a previous conversation he had had with Mr Pilgrim had convinced him that there was not the faintest probability of Dempster 's recovery . 
Poor Janet did not know the significance of the changing symptoms , and when , after the lapse of a week , the delirium began to lose some of its violence , and to be interrupted by longer and longer intervals of stupor , she tried to think that these might be steps on the way to recovery , and she shrank from questioning Mr Pilgrim , lest he should confirm the fears that began to get predominance in her mind . 
But before many days were past , he thought it right not to allow her to blind herself any longer . 
One day -- it was just about noon , when bad news always seems most sickening -- he led her from her husband 's chamber into the opposite drawing-room , where Mrs Raynor was sitting , and said to her , in that low tone of sympathetic feeling which sometimes gave a sudden air of gentleness to this rough man , -- `` My dear Mrs Dempster , it is right in these cases , you know , to be prepared for the worst . 
Janet listened with a sinking heart . 
That future of love and forgiveness would never come , then : he was going out of her sight for ever , where her pity could never reach him . 
She turned cold , and trembled . 
`` But do you think he will die , '' she said , `` without ever coming to himself ? 
... '' `` O , I would n't have him troubled about those things , '' interrupted Janet ; `` he has no relations but quite distant ones -- no one but me . 
... '' She was unable to finish ; she felt her sobs rising , and left the room . 
she said inwardly , `` is not Thy love greater than mine ? 
Janet could not be persuaded to leave the room . 
She was yearning and watching for a moment in which her husband 's eyes would rest consciously upon her , and he would know that she had forgiven him . 
Janet sat on the edge of the bed through the long hours of candle-light , watching the unconscious half-closed eyes , wiping the perspiration from the brow and cheeks , and keeping her left hand on the cold unanswering right hand that lay beside her on the bed-clothes . 
She was almost as pale as her dying husband , and there were dark lines under her eyes , for this was the third night since she had taken off her clothes ; but the eager straining gaze of her dark eyes , and the acute sensibility that lay in every line about her mouth , made a strange contrast with the blank unconsciousness and emaciated animalism of the face she was watching . 
She heard no sound but her husband 's breathing and the ticking of the watch on the mantelpiece . 
The candle , placed high up , shed a soft light down on the one object she cared to see . 
There was a smell of brandy in the room ; it was given to her husband from time to time ; but this smell , which at first had produced in her a faint shuddering sensation , was now become indifferent to her ; she did not even perceive it ; she was too unconscious of herself to feel either temptations or accusations . 
She only felt that the husband of her youth was dying ; far , far out of her reach , as if she were standing helpless on the shore , while he was sinking in the black storm-waves ; she only yearned for one moment in which she might satisfy the deep forgiving pity of her soul by one look of love , one word of tenderness . 
Her sensations and thoughts were so persistent that she could not measure the hours , and it was a surprise to her when the nurse put out the candle , and let in the faint morning light . 
Mrs Raynor , anxious about Janet , was already up , and now brought in some fresh coffee for her ; and Mr Pilgrim , having awaked , had hurried on his clothes , and was come in to see how Dempster was . 
This change from candle-light to morning , this recommencement of the same round of things that had happened yesterday , was a discouragement rather than a relief to Janet . 
She was more conscious of her chill weariness ; the new light thrown on her husband 's face seemed to reveal the still work that death had been doing through the night ; she felt her last lingering hope that he would ever know her again forsake her . 
Janet noticed the change , and her heart beat faster as she leaned forward to watch him . 
Suddenly a slight movement , like the passing away of a shadow , was visible in his face , and he opened his eyes full on Janet . 
He kept his eyes fixed on her , and there was a faintly perceptible motion of the lips , as if he wanted to speak . 
But the moment of speech was for ever gone -- the moment for asking pardon of her , if he wanted to ask it . 
Could he read the full forgiveness that was written in her eyes ? 
She never knew ; for , as she was bending to kiss him , the thick veil of death fell between them , and her lips touched a corpse . 
The person who was most thoroughly convinced that Janet 's grief was deep and real , was Mr Pilgrim , who in general was not at all weakly given to a belief in disinterested feeling . 
`` Well , I think she means to cure herself , do you know , '' said Mr Pigrim , whose goodwill towards Janet was just now quite above that temperate point at which he could indulge his feminine patients with a little judicious detraction . 
Mrs Phipps 's view of Janet , however , was far from being the prevalent one in Milby . 
Even neighbours who had no strong personal interest in her , could hardly see the noble-looking woman in her widow 's dress , with a sad sweet gravity in her face , and not be touched with fresh admiration for her -- and not feel , at least vaguely , that she had entered on a new life in which it was a sort of desecration to allude to the painful past . 
The Pratts lost no time in returning to the footing of old-established friendship with Janet and her mother ; and Miss Pratt felt it incumbent on her , on all suitable occasions , to deliver a very emphatic approval of the remarkable strength of mind she understood Mrs Dempster to be exhibiting . 
The Miss Linnets were eager to meet Mr Tryan 's wishes by greeting Janet as one who was likely to be a sister in religious feeling and good works ; and Mrs Linnet was so agreeably surprised by the fact that Dempster had left his wife the money `` in that handsome way , to do what she liked with it , '' that she even included Dempster himself , and his villanous discovery of the flaw in her title to Pye 's Croft , in her magnanimous oblivion of past offences . 
Perhaps this ground of respect to widows might not be entirely without its influence on the Milby mind , and might do something towards conciliating those more aristocratic acquaintances of Janet 's , who would otherwise have been inclined to take the severest view of her apostasy towards Evangelicalism . 
However it may have been , there was not an acquaintance of Janet 's , in Milby , that did not offer her civilities in the early days of her widowhood . 
Perhaps the attentions most grateful to Janet were those of her old friend Mrs Crewe , whose attachment to her favourite proved quite too strong for any resentment she might be supposed to feel on the score of Mr Tryan . 
All this friendliness was very precious to Janet . 
She was conscious of the aid it gave her in the self-conquest which was the blessing she prayed for with every fresh morning . 
The chief strength of her nature lay in her affection , which coloured all the rest of her mind : it gave a personal sisterly tenderness to her acts of benevolence ; it made her cling with tenacity to every object that had once stirred her kindly emotions . 
it was unsatisfied , wounded affection that had made her trouble greater than she could bear . 
And now there was no check to the full flow of that plenteous current in her nature -- no gnawing secret anguish -- no overhanging terror -- no inward shame . 
Friendly faces beamed on her ; she felt that friendly hearts were approving her , and wishing her well , and that mild sunshine of goodwill fell beneficently on her new hopes and efforts , as the clear shining after rain falls on the tender leaf-buds of spring , and wins them from promise to fulfilment . 
And she needed these secondary helps , for her wrestling with her past self was not always easy . 
The strong emotions from which the life of a human being receives a new bias , win their victory as the sea wins his : though their advance may be sure , they will often , after a mightier wave than usual , seem to roll back so far as to lose all the ground they had made . 
Janet showed the strong bent of her will by taking every outward precaution against the occurrence of a temptation . 
Her mother was now her constant companion , having shut up her little dwelling and come to reside in Orchard Street ; and Janet gave all dangerous keys into her keeping , entreating her to lock them away in some secret place . 
Whenever the too well-known depression and craving threatened her , she would seek a refuge in what had always been her purest enjoyment -- in visiting one of her poor neighbours , in carrying some food or comfort to a sick-bed , in cheering with her smile some of the familiar dwellings up the dingy back-lanes . 
But the great source of courage , the great help to perseverance , was the sense that she had a friend and teacher in Mr Tryan : she could confess her difficulties to him ; she knew he prayed for her ; she had always before her the prospect of soon seeing him , and hearing words of admonition and comfort , that came to her charged with a divine power such as she had never found in human words before . 
So the time passed , till it was far on in May , nearly a month after her husband 's death , when , as she and her mother were seated peacefully at breakfast in the dining-room , looking through the open window at the old-fashioned garden , where the grass-plot was now whitened with appleblossoms , a letter was brought in for Mrs Raynor . 
Janet looked distressed as she said , `` Yes , you must go , mother . 
At twelve o'clock , Janet , having seen her mother in the coach that was to carry her to Thurston , called , on her way back , at Mrs Pettifer 's , but found , to her great disappointment , that her old friend was gone out for the day . 
Janet , with a sense of discouragement for which she rebuked herself as childish , walked sadly home again ; and when she entered the vacant dining-room , she could not help bursting into tears . 
Janet could scarcely eat anything at her solitary dinner ; she tried to fix her attention on a book in vain ; she walked about the garden , and felt the very sunshine melancholy . 
Between four and five o'clock , old Mr Pittman called , and joined her in the garden , where she had been sitting for some time under one of the great apple-trees , thinking how Robert , in his best moods , used to take little Mamsey to look at the cucumbers , or to see the Alderney cow with its calf in the paddock . 
The tears and sobs had come again at these thoughts ; and when Mr Pittman approached her , she was feeling languid and exhausted . 
But the old gentleman 's sight and sensibility were obtuse , and , to Janet 's satisfaction , he showed no consciousness that she was in grief . 
Janet said she would look directly , and turned with Mr Pittman into the house . 
But the search would take her some time , so he bade her good-by , and she went at once to a bureau which stood in a small back room , where Dempster used sometimes to write letters and receive people who came on business out of office hours . 
She had looked through the contents of the bureau more than once ; but to-day , on removing the last bundle of letters from one of the compartments , she saw what she had never seen before , a small nick in the wood , made in the shape of a thumb-nail , evidently intended as a means of pushing aside the movable back of the compartment . 
In her examination hitherto she had not found such a letter as Mr Pittman had described -- perhaps there might be more letters behind this slide . 
She pushed it back at once , and saw -- no letters , but a small spirit decanter , half full of pale brandy , Dempster 's habitual drink . 
An impetuous desire shook Janet through all her members ; it seemed to master her with the inevitable force of strong fumes that flood our senses before we are aware . 
Her hand was on the decanter ; pale and excited she was lifting it out of its niche , when , with a start and a shudder , she dashed it to the ground , and the room was filled with the odour of the spirit . 
Without staying to shut up the bureau , she rushed out of the room , snatched up her bonnet and mantle which lay in the dining-room , and hurried out of the house . 
Where should she go ? 
In what place would this demon that had re-entered her be scared back again ? 
She walks rapidly along the street in the direction of the church . 
She is soon at the gate of the churchyard ; she passes through it , and makes her way across the graves to a spot she knows -- a spot where the turf was stirred not long ago , where a tomb is to be erected soon . 
Janet sat down on the ground . 
A thick hedge , surmounted by elm trees , was in front of her ; a projecting buttress on each side . 
But she wanted to shut out even these objects . 
Her thick crape veil was down ; but she closed her eyes behind it , and pressed her hands upon them . 
She wanted to summon up the vision of the past ; she wanted to lash the demon out of her soul with the stinging memories of the bygone misery ; she wanted to renew the old horror and the old anguish , that she might throw herself with the more desperate clinging energy at the foot of the cross , where the Divine Sufferer would impart divine strength . 
She tried to recall those first bitter moments of shame , which were like the shuddering discovery of the leper that the dire taint is upon him ; the deeper and deeper lapse ; the on-coming of settled despair ; the awful moments by the bedside of her self-maddened husband . 
And then she tried to live through , with a remembrance made more vivid by that contrast , the blessed hours of hope , and joy , and peace that had come to her of late , since her whole soul had been bent towards the attainment of purity and holiness . 
But now , when the paroxysm of temptation was past , dread and despondency began to thrust themselves , like cold heavy mists , between her and the heaven to which she wanted to look for light and guidance . 
The temptation would come again -- that rush of desire might overmaster her the next time -- she would slip back again into that deep slimy pit from which she had been once rescued , and there might be no deliverance for her more . 
Her prayers did not help her , for fear predominated over trust ; she had no confidence that the aid she sought would be given ; the idea of her future fall had grasped her mind too strongly . 
Alone , in this way , she was powerless . 
If she could see Mr Tryan , if she could confess all to him , she might gather hope again . 
She must see him ; she must go to him . 
Janet rose from the ground , and walked away with a quick resolved step . 
She had been seated there a long while , and the sun had already sunk . 
It was late for her to walk to Paddiford and go to Mr Tryan 's , where she had never called before ; but there was no other way of seeing him that evening , and she could not hesitate about it . 
She walked towards a footpath through the fields , which would take her to Paddiford without obliging her to go through the town . 
The way was rather long , but she preferred it , because it left less probability of her meeting acquaintances , and she shrank from having to speak to any one . 
The evening red had nearly faded by the time Janet knocked at Mrs Wagstaff 's door . 
The good woman looked surprised to see her at that hour ; but Janet 's mourning weeds and the painful agitation of her face quickly brought the second thought , that some urgent trouble had sent her there . 
`` Mr Tryan 's just come in , '' she said . 
At another time Janet would have felt distress at the idea that she was disturbing Mr Tryan when he required rest ; but now her need was too great for that : she could feel nothing but a sense of coming relief , when she heard his step on the stair and saw him enter the room . 
He went towards her with a look of anxiety , and said , `` I fear something is the matter . 
Then poor Janet poured forth her sad tale of temptation and despondency ; and even while she was confessing she felt half her burthen removed . 
The act of confiding in human sympathy , the consciousness that a fellow-being was listening to her with patient pity , prepared her soul for that stronger leap by which faith grasps the idea of the divine sympathy . 
When Mr Tryan spoke words of consolation and encouragement , she could now believe the message of mercy ; the water-floods that had threatened to overwhelm her rolled back again , and life once more spread its heaven-covered space before her . 
She had been unable to pray alone ; but now his prayer bore her own soul along with it , as the broad tongue of flame carries upwards in its vigorous leap the little flickering fire that could hardly keep alight by itself . 
But Mr Tryan was anxious that Janet should not linger out at this late hour . 
When he saw that she was calmed , he said , `` I will walk home with you now ; we can talk on the way . '' 
But Janet 's mind was now sufficiently at liberty for her to notice the signs of feverish weariness in his appearance , and she would not hear of causing him any further fatigue . 
`` No , no , '' she said earnestly , `` you will pain me very much -- indeed you will , by going out again to-night on my account . 
And when he persisted , fearing that for her to be seen out so late alone might excite remark , she said imploringly , with a half sob in her voice , `` What should I -- what would others like me do , if you went from us ? 
He had often had that appeal made to him before , but to-night -- from Janet 's lips -- it seemed to have a new force for him , and he gave way . 
At first , indeed , he only did so on condition that she would let Mrs Wagstaff go with her ; but Janet had determined to walk home alone . 
She preferred solitude ; she wished not to have her present feelings distracted by any conversation . 
So she went out into the dewy starlight ; and as Mr Tryan turned away from her , he felt a stronger wish than ever that his fragile life might last out for him to see Janet 's restoration thoroughly established -- to see her no longer fleeing , struggling , clinging up the steep sides of a precipice whence she might be any moment hurled back into the depths of despair , but walking firmly on the level ground of habit . 
He inwardly resolved that nothing but a peremptory duty should ever take him from Milby -- that he would not cease to watch over her until life forsook him . 
Janet walked on quickly till she turned into the fields ; then she slackened her pace a little , enjoying the sense of solitude which a few hours before had been intolerable to her . 
The Divine Presence did not now seem far off , where she had not wings to reach it ; prayer itself seemed superfluous in those moments of calm trust . 
The temptation which had so lately made her shudder before the possibilities of the future , was now a source of confidence ; for had she not been delivered from it ? 
Yes ; Infinite Love was caring for her . 
She felt like a little child whose hand is firmly grasped by its father , as its frail limbs make their way over the rough ground ; if it should stumble , the father will not let it go . 
That walk in the dewy starlight remained for ever in Janet 's memory as one of those baptismal epochs , when the soul , dipped in the sacred waters of joy and peace , rises from them with new energies , with more unalterable longings . 
When she reached home she found Mrs Pettifer there , anxious for her return . 
After thanking her for coming , Janet only said , `` I have been to Mr Tryan 's ; I wanted to speak to him ; '' and then remembering how she had left the bureau and papers , she went into the back-room , where , apparently , no one had been since she quitted it ; for there lay the fragments of glass , and the room was still full of the hateful odour . 
How feeble and miserable the temptation seemed to her at this moment ! 
She rang for Kitty to come and pick up the fragments and rub the floor , while she herself replaced the papers and locked up the bureau . 
The next morning , when seated at breakfast with Mrs Pettifer , Janet said , `` What a dreary , unhealthy-looking place that is where Mr Tryan lives ! 
That was the last terrible crisis of temptation Janet had to pass through . 
The goodwill of her neighbours , the helpful sympathy of the friends who shared her religious feelings , the occupations suggested to her by Mr Tryan , concurred , with her strong spontaneous impulses towards works of love and mercy , to fill up her days with quiet social intercourse and charitable exertion . 
Besides , her constitution , naturally healthy and strong , was every week tending , with the gathering force of habit , to recover its equipoise and set her free from those physical solicitations which the smallest habitual vice always leaves behind it . 
There were always neighbourly visits to be paid and received ; and as the months wore on , increasing familiarity with Janet 's present self began to efface , even from minds as rigid as Mrs Phipps 's , the unpleasant impressions that had been left by recent years . 
Janet was recovering the popularity which her beauty and sweetness of nature had won for her when she was a girl ; and popularity , as every one knows , is the most complex and self-multiplying of echoes . 
Among all Janet 's neighbourly pleasures , there was nothing she liked better than to take an early tea at the White House , and to stroll with Mr Jerome round the old-fashioned garden and orchard . 
There was endless matter for talk between her and the good old man , for Janet had that genuine delight in human fellowship which gives an interest to all personal details that come warm from truthful lips ; and , besides , they had a common interest in good-natured plans for helping their poorer neighbours . 
In illustration of this opinion Mr Jerome had a large store of details about such persons as Jim Hardy , the coal-carrier , `` as lost his hoss , '' and Sally Butts , `` as hed to sell her mangle , though she was as decent a woman as need to be ; '' to the hearing of which details Janet seriously inclined , and you would hardly desire to see a prettier picture than the kind-faced white-haired old man telling these fragments of his simple experience as he walked , with shoulders slightly bent , among the moss-roses and espalier apple-trees , while Janet in her widow 's cap , her dark eyes bright with interest , went listening by his side , and little Lizzie , with her nankeen bonnet hanging down her back , toddled on before them . 
However , Mrs Jerome herself could not deny that Janet was a very pretty-spoken woman : `` She al ` ys says , she niver gets sich pikelets as mine nowhere ; I know that very well -- other folks buy 'em at shops -- thick , unwholesome things , you mut as well ate a sponge . '' 
The sight of little Lizzie often stirred in Janet 's mind a sense of the childlessness which had made a fatal blank in her life . 
She had fleeting thoughts that perhaps among her husband 's distant relatives there might be some children whom she could help to bring up , some little girl whom she might adopt ; and she promised herself one day or other to hunt out a second cousin of his -- a married woman of whom he had lost sight for many years . 
That was a happy afternoon for Janet , when , after exerting herself busily for a week with her mother and Mrs Pettifer , she saw Holly Mount looking orderly and comfortable from attic to cellar . 
When there was nothing more to be done , Janet delighted herself with contemplating Mr Tryan 's study , first sitting down in the easy-chair , and then lying for a moment on the sofa , that she might have a keener sense of the repose he would get from those well-stuffed articles of furniture , which she had gone to Rotherby on purpose to choose . 
`` Now , mother , '' she said , when she had finished her survey , `` you have done your work as well as any fairy mother or god-mother that ever turned a pumpkin into a coach and horses . 
Janet 's way thither lay for a little while along the high-road , and then led her into a deep-rutted lane , which wound through a flat tract of meadow and pasture , while in front lay smoky Paddiford , and away to the left the mother-town of Milby . 
And Janet just now was very happy . 
As she walked along the rough lane with a buoyant step , a half smile of innocent , kindly triumph played about her mouth . 
She was delighting beforehand in the anticipated success of her persuasive power , and for the time her painful anxiety about Mr Tryan 's health was thrown into abeyance . 
But she had not gone far along the lane before she heard the sound of a horse advancing at a walking pace behind her . 
Without looking back , she turned aside to make way for it between the ruts , and did not notice that for a moment it had stopped and had then come on with a slightly quickened pace . 
In less than a minute she heard a well-known voice say , `` Mrs Dempster ; '' and , turning , saw Mr Tryan close to her , holding his horse by the bridle . 
The question recalled Janet to the consciousness that this was an unexpected opportunity for beginning her work of persuasion , and that she was stupidly neglecting it . 
`` Yes , '' she said , `` I was going to Mrs Linnet 's . 
He could not be sorry ; he could not say no ; he could not resist the sense that life had a new sweetness for him , and that he should like it to be prolonged a little -- only a little , for the sake of feeling a stronger security about Janet . 
When she had finished speaking , she looked at him with a doubtful , inquiring glance . 
He was not looking at her ; his eyes were cast downwards ; but the expression of his face encouraged her , and she said , in a halfplayful tone of entreaty , -- `` You will go and live with her ? 
He looked at her then , and smiled . 
That smile of Mr Tryan 's pierced poor Janet 's heart : she felt in it at once the assurance of grateful affection and the prophecy of coming death . 
Her tears rose ; they turned round without speaking , and went back again along the lane . 
Janet was with him a great deal now , for she saw that he liked her to read to him in the lengthening evenings , and it became the rule for her and her mother to have tea at Holly Mount , where , with Mrs Pettifer and sometimes another friend or two , they brought Mr Tryan the unaccustomed enjoyment of companionship by his own fireside . 
Janet did not share his new hopes , for she was not only in the habit of hearing Mr Pratt 's opinion that Mr Tryan could hardly stand out through the winter , but she also knew that it was shared by Dr Madely of Rotherby , whom , at her request , he had consented to call in . 
It was not necessary or desirable to tell Mr Tryan what was revealed by the stethoscope , but Janet knew the worst . 
She felt no rebellion under this prospect of bereavement , but rather , a quiet submissive sorrow . 
Gratitude that his influence and guidance had been given her , even if only for a little while -- gratitude that she was permitted to be with him , to take a deeper and deeper impress from daily communion with him , to be something to him in these last months of his life , was so strong in her that it almost silenced regret . 
Janet had lived through the great tragedy of woman 's life . 
Her keenest personal emotions had been poured forth in her early love -- her wounded affection with its years of anguish -- her agony of unavailing pity over that death-bed seven months ago . 
The thought of Mr Tryan was associated for her with repose from that conflict of emotion , with trust in the unchangeable , with the influx of a power to subdue self . 
To have been assured of his sympathy , his teaching , his help , all through her life , would have been to her like a heaven already begun -- a deliverance from fear and danger ; but the time was not yet come for her to be conscious that the hold he had on her heart was any other than that of the heaven-sent friend who had come to her like the angel in the prison , and loosed her bonds , and led her by the hand till she could look back on the dreadful doors that had once closed her in . 
Janet became a constant attendant on him now , and no one could feel that she was performing anything but a sacred office . 
She made Holly Mount her home , and , with her mother and Mrs Pettifer to help her , she filled the painful days and nights with every soothing influence that care and tenderness could devise . 
There were others who would have had the heart and the skill to fill this place by Mr Tryan 's side , and who would have accepted it as an honour ; but they could not help feeling that God had given it to Janet by a train of events which were too impressive not to shame all jealousies into silence . 
One afternoon , near the end of February , Janet was moving gently about the room , in the fire-lit dusk , arranging some things that would be wanted in the night . 
There was no one else in the room , and his eyes followed her as she moved with the firm grace natural to her , while the bright fire every now and then lit up her face , and gave an unusual glow to its dark beauty . 
Even to follow her in this way with his eyes was an exertion that gave a painful tension to his face ; while she looked like an image of life and strength . 
`` Janet , '' he said presently , in his faint voice -- he always called her Janet now . 
In a moment she was close to him , bending over him . 
He opened his hand as he looked up at her , and she placed hers within it . 
`` Janet , '' he said again , `` you will have a long while to live after I am gone . '' 
A sudden pang of fear shot through her . 
She thought he felt himself dying , and she sank on her knees at his feet , holding his hand , while she looked up at him , almost breathless . 
She could hardly utter the words , though she was not weeping . 
She was waiting with trembling eagerness for anything else he might have to say . 
She lifted up her face to his , and the full lifebreathing lips met the wasted dying ones in a sacred kiss of promise . 
Mr. Jerome and Mr Landor were the eldest pall-bearers ; and behind the coffin , led by Mr Tryan 's cousin , walked Janet , in quiet submissive sorrow . 
She could not feel that he was quite gone from her ; the unseen world lay so very near her -- it held all that had ever stirred the depths of anguish and joy within her . 
When Janet left the grave , she did not return to Holly Mount ; she went to her home in Orchard Street , where her mother was waiting to receive her . 
Janet felt a deep stillness within . 
She thirsted for no pleasure ; she craved no worldly good . 
She saw the years to come stretch before her like an autumn afternoon , filled with resigned memory . 
Life to her could never more have any eagerness ; it was a solemn service of gratitude and patient effort . 
She walked in the presence of unseen witnesses -- of the Divine love that had rescued her , of the human love that waited for its eternal repose until it had seen her endure to the end . 
Janet is living still . 
Her black hair is grey , and her step is no longer buoyant ; but the sweetness of her smile remains , the love is not gone from her eyes ; and strangers sometimes ask , Who is that noble-looking elderly woman , that walks about holding a little boy by the hand ? 
The little boy is the son of Janet 's adopted daughter , and Janet in her old age has children about her knees , and loving young arms round her neck . 
