Lady Ormsby was just come to the country , with a large party of her fashionable friends -- some Irish , some English : Lord and Lady Kilrush ; my Lady Kildangan and her daughter ; the Lady Geraldine -- ; the knowing widow O'Connor ; the English dasher , Lady Hauton ; the interesting Mrs. Norton , separated but not parted from her husband ; the pleasant Miss Bland ; the three Miss Ormsbys , better known by the name of the Swadlinbar Graces ; two English aide-decamps from the castle , and a brace of brigadiers ; beside other men of inferior note . 
The young ladies I thought , as usual , `` best distinguished by black , brown , and fair : '' but I had not yet seen Lady Geraldine -- ; and a great part of the conversation , the first day I was at Ormsby Villa , was filled with lamentations on the unfortunate tooth-ache , which prevented her ladyship from appearing . 
She was talked of so much , and as a person of such importance , and so essential to the amusement of the society , that I could not help feeling a slight wish to see her . 
The next day at breakfast she did not appear ; but , five minutes before dinner , her ladyship 's humble companion whispered , `` Now Lady Geraldine is coming , my lord . '' 
I was always rather displeased to be called upon to attend to any thing or any body , yet , as Lady Geraldine entered , I gave one involuntary glance of curiosity . 
I observed Lady Kildangan manoeuvring to place me beside her daughter Geraldine , but Lady Geraldine counteracted this movement . 
After yielding the envied position to one of the Swadlinbar Graces , I heard Lady Geraldine whisper to her next neighbour , `` Baffled mamma ! '' 
The moment that I went to the ladies , I was seized upon by the officious Miss Bland : she could not speak of any thing but Lady Geraldine , who sat at so great a distance , and who was conversing with such animation herself , that she could not hear her proneure , Miss Bland , inform me , that `` her friend , Lady Geraldine , was extremely clever : so clever , that many people were at first a little afraid of her ; but that there was not the least occasion ; for that , where she liked , nobody could be more affable and engaging . '' 
This judicious friend , a minute afterwards , told me , as a very great secret , that Lady Geraldine was an admirable mimic ; that she could draw or speak caricatures ; that she was also wonderfully happy in the invention of agnomens and cognomens , so applicable to the persons , that they could scarcely be forgotten or forgiven . 
I was a little anxious to know whether her ladyship would honour me with an agnomen . 
A slight degree of fear of Lady Geraldine 's powers of satire kept my attention alert . 
I exerted myself so far as to follow immediately ; but though summoned Lady Geraldine did not obey . 
Miss Bland tuned the harp , and opened the music books on the piano ; but no Lady Geraldine appeared . 
Miss Bland was sent backwards and forwards with messages ; but Lady Geraldine 's ultimatum was , that she could n't possibly sing , because she was afraid of the toothache . 
God knows , her mouth had never been shut all the evening . 
`` Well , but , '' said Lady Kildangan , `` she can play for us , can not she ? '' 
The Lady Geraldine , with her circle round her , heard and answered me with the air of a princess . 
I presume I appeared fast asleep , else Lady Geraldine would not have said , within my hearing , `` Mamma wants me to catch somebody , and to be caught by somebody ; but that will not be ; for , do you know , I think somebody is nobody . '' 
I was offended as much as it was in my nature to be offended , and I began to meditate apologies for shortening my visit at Ormsby Villa : but , though I was shocked by the haughtiness of Lady Geraldine , and accused her , in my own mind , of want of delicacy and politeness , yet I could not now suspect her of being an accomplice with her mother in any matrimonial designs upon me . 
From the moment I was convinced of this , my conviction was , I suppose , visible to her ladyship 's penetrating eyes , and from that instant she showed me that she could be polite and agreeable . 
Confident of her talents , conscious of her charms , and secure of her station , Lady Geraldine gave free scope to her high spirits , her fancy , and her turn for ridicule . 
She looked , spoke , and acted , like a person privileged to think , say , and do , what she pleased . 
Her raillery , like the raillery of princes , was without fear of retort . 
She was not ill-natured , yet careless to whom she gave offence , provided she produced amusement ; and in this she seldom failed ; for , in her conversation , there was much of the raciness of Irish wit , and the oddity of Irish humour . 
The singularity that struck me most about her ladyship , was her indifference to flattery . 
She certainly preferred frolic . 
In describing Miss Tracey , Lady Geraldine said , `` Poor simpleton ! 
It was one of Lady Geraldine 's delights , to humour Miss Tracey 's rage for imitating the fashions of fine people . 
Miss Tracey 's appearance the ensuing night justified all Lady Geraldine 's predictions , and surpassed her ladyship 's most sanguine hopes . 
Even I , albeit unused to the laughing mood , could not forbear smiling at the humour and ease , with which her ladyship played off this girl 's credulous vanity . 
`` My good lord , '' replied Lady Geraldine , `` all the world are ridiculous some way or other : some in public , some in private . 
Now , '' continued she , with an appealing look to the whole company , `` now , after all , what is there more extravagant in my Miss Tracey 's delighting , at sixteen , in six yards of pink ribbon , than in your courtier sighing , at sixty , for three yards of blue ribbon ? 
Satisfied with silencing all opposition , and seeing that the majority was with her , Lady Geraldine persisted in her course ; and I was glad she was incorrigible , because her faults entertained me . 
As to love , I thought I was perfectly safe ; because , though I admired her quickness and cleverness , yet I still , at times , perceived , or fancied I perceived , some want of polish , and elegance , and tact . 
She was not exactly cut out according to my English pattern of a woman of fashion ; so I thought I might amuse myself without danger , as it was partly at her ladyship 's expense . 
As I was standing lounging upon the steps at the hall-door , almost as ennuyé as usual , I saw a carriage at a distance , between the trees , driving up the approach ; and , at the same instant , I heard Lady Geraldine 's eager voice in the hall -- `` Oh ! 
`` Who is this Lord Craiglethorpe , with whom Lady Geraldine is on such familiar terms ? 
Only I want to beg you 'll keep our secret -- my Lady Geraldine 's secret . '' 
`` Undoubtedly , madam -- a man of honour -- Lady Geraldine can not doubt -- her ladyship 's secret is perfectly safe . '' 
Miss Bland then made me the confidant of a charming scheme of Lady Geraldine 's , for quizzing Miss Tracey . 
Well , the note was scarcely gone , before Lady Geraldine thought of her charming scheme , and regretted , of all things , she had not put it into it . '' 
The admiration of Miss Tracey for the false Craiglethorpe , as Lady Geraldine called Mr. Gabbitt ; the awkwardness of Mr. Gabbitt with his title , and the awkwardness of Lord Craiglethorpe without it , were fine subjects for her ladyship 's satirical humour . 
In another point of view , Lord Craiglethorpe afforded her ladyship amusement -- as an English traveller , full of English prejudices against Ireland and every thing Irish . 
Whenever Miss Tracey was out of the room , Lady Geraldine allowed Lord Craiglethorpe to be himself again ; but he did not fare the better for this restoration to his honour Lady Geraldine contrived to make him ridiculous in his real , as in his assumed character . 
His manners were in the extreme of English reserve ; and his ill-bred show of contempt for the Irish was sufficient provocation and justification of Lady Geraldine 's ridicule . 
He was much in awe of his fair and witty cousin : she could easily put him out of countenance , for he was extremely bashful . 
Once , when he was out of the room , Lady Geraldine exclaimed , `` That cousin Craiglethorpe of mine is scarcely an agreeable man : the awkwardness of mauvaise-honte might be pitied and pardoned , even in a nobleman , continued her ladyship , `` if it really proceeded from humility ; but here , when I know it is connected with secret and inordinate arrogance , 't is past all endurance . 
Lady Geraldine , after putting his lordship in good humour by this propitiatory offering of a bull , continued to supply him , either directly or indirectly , by some of her confederates , with the most absurd anecdotes , incredible facts , stale jests , and blunders , such as never were made by true-born Irishmen ; all which my Lord Craiglethorpe took down with an industrious sobriety , at which the spectators could scarcely refrain from laughing . 
`` Yes , if you 'll pay me a compliment in the preface , '' whispered Lady Geraldine : `` and now , dear cousin , do go up stairs and put it all in ink . '' 
When she had dispatched the noble author , her ladyship indulged her laughter . 
`` But now , '' cried she , `` only imagine a set of sober English readers studying my cousin Craiglethorpe 's new view of Ireland , and swallowing all the nonsense it will contain ! '' 
When Lord Kilrush remonstrated against the cruelty of letting the man publish such stuff , and represented it as a fraud upon the public , Lady Geraldine laughed still more , and exclaimed , `` Surely you do n't think I would use the public and my poor cousin so ill . 
This was carrying the jest farther than Lady Geraldine had intended or foreseen ; and her good-nature would probably have disposed her immediately to dissolve the enchantment , had she not been provoked by the interference of Lord Kilrush , and the affected sensibility of Miss Clementina Ormsby , who , to give me an exalted opinion of her delicacy , expoetulated incessantly in favour of the deluded fair one . 
`` But , my dear Lady Geraldine , I do assure you it really hurts my feelings . 
`` Geraldine , my dear , you do not know what you are talking about , '' said her ladyship . 
`` Your time may come , Geraldine . 
Lady Geraldine looked haughtily vexed . 
When in this mood , her wit gave no quarter ; spared neither sex nor age . 
`` Every body says , '' whispered she , `` that mamma is the most artful woman in the world ; and I should believe it , only that every body says it : now , if it were true , nobody would know it . '' 
Lady Geraldine 's air of disdain towards me was resumed . 
She certainly blushed deeply , and for the first time that I ever saw her blush , when her mother said , `` Your time may come , Geraldine . '' 
Lady Ormsby and Sir Harry said every thing that could be said upon the occasion : indeed , it seemed a matter of general interest to all , except to Lady Geraldine . 
She appeared wholly indifferent , and I was not even gratified by any apparent affectation of desiring my departure . 
Curiosity to see whether this would be sustained by her ladyship to the last , gave me resolution sufficient to resist the importunities of Sir Harry ; and I departed , rejoicing that my indifference was equal to her ladyship 's . 
I think I owe to Lady Geraldine my first relish for wit , and my first idea that a woman might be , if not a reasonable , at least a companionable animal . 
My determination was confirmed at this instant by the appearance of Lady Geraldine . 
Neither of them had yet possession of my heart , but love and Lady Geraldine had perhaps a better chance than ambition and Lord O'Toole . 
Lady Geraldine appeared in high spirits ; and though I was not a vain man , I could not help fancying , that my return to Ormsby Villa contributed to her charming vivacity . 
This gratified me secretly and soberly , as much as it visibly delighted her mother . 
Miss Bland , to pay her court to Lady Kildangan , observed , that Lady Geraldine was in uncommonly fine spirits this evening . 
Lady Geraldine threw back a haughty frown over her left shoulder ; this was the only time I ever saw her notice , in any manner , any thing that fell from her obsequious friend . 
I was afraid that Lady Geraldine would feel the want of her butt ; however , I found that Miss Tracey 's place was supplied by Captain Andrews , one of the castle aides-de-camp ; and when Captain Andrews was out of the way , Lord Kilrush , and his brother O'Toole , were good marks . 
`` But though your lordship '' , continued Lady Geraldine , `` may have observed Captain Andrews 's wonderful economy of words ; do you know whence it arises ? 
Lady Geraldine looked as if she was fully sensible of the unpoliteness of Mrs. O'Connor 's mode of praising . 
`` You must know , '' pursued Lady Geraldine , `` that Captain Andrews is only an aide-de-camp till a diplomatic situation can be found for him ; and to do him justice he has been so well trained in the diplomatic school , that he will not hazard an assertion on any subject ; he is not certain of any thing , not even of his own identity . '' 
`` He has such a holy horrour of committing himself , '' continued Lady Geraldine , `` that if you were to ask him if the sun rose this morning , he would answer with his sweet smile -- So I am told -- or -- So I am informed . '' 
cried Lady Geraldine . 
Lady Geraldine 's raillery , like all other things , would , perhaps , soon have become tiresome to me ; but that there was infinite variety in her humour . 
At first I had thought her merely superficial , and intent solely upon her own amusement ; but I soon found that she had a taste for literature , beyond what could have been expected in one who lived so dissipated a life ; a depth of reflection that seemed inconsistent with the rapidity with which she thought ; and , above all , a degree of generous indignation against meanness and vice , which seemed incompatible with the selfish character of a fine lady , and which appeared quite incomprehensible to the imitating tribe of her fashionable companions . 
All worshipped them present , and abused them absent , except Lady Geraldine , who neither joined in the admiration , nor inquired into the scandal . 
Lady Geraldine , who had kept aloof , and who was examining some prints at the farther end of the room , at this instant laid down her book , and looked upon the whole party with an air of magnanimous disdain ; then smiling , as in scorn , she advanced towards them , and , in a tone of irony , addressing one of the Swadlinbar graces : `` My dear Theresa , '' said her ladyship , `` you are absolutely ashamed , I see , of not being quite naked ; and you , my good Bess , will , no doubt , very soon be equally scandalized , at the imputation of being a perfectly modest woman . 
`` But you know , '' pursued Mrs. O'Connor , `` that Lady Geraldine is too proud to take pattern from any body . '' 
Here clamorous voices interrupted Lady Geraldine -- some justifying , some attacking Lady Hauton and Mrs. Norton . 
Lady Geraldine , I assure you , notwithstanding all that was said about General -- and Mrs. Norton , I am convinced there was nothing in it . '' 
`` And , my dear Lady Geraldine , though Lady Hauton does go great lengths in coquetting with a certain lord , you must sec that there 's nothing wrong ; and that she means nothing , but to provoke his lady 's jealousy . 
`` No matter , no matter , which is the worst , '' cried Lady Geraldine ; `` do n't let us waste our time in repeating or verifying scandalous stories of either of them . 
my dear countrywomen , '' cried Lady Geraldine , with increasing animation of countenance and manner -- `` O ! 
My eyes were fixed upon her animated countenance , and I believe , I continued gazing even after her voice ceased . 
Mrs. O'Connor pointed this out , and I was immediately embarrassed , Miss Bland accounted for my embarrassment by supposing , that what Lady Geraldine had said of English crim . 
From a look and a whisper among the ladies I guessed this ; but Lady Geraldine was too well bred to suppose I could suspect her of ill-breeding and ill-nature , or that I could apply to myself what evidently was not intended to allade to my family misfortunes . 
By an openness of manner , and sweetness of expression , which I can not forget , she , in one single look , conveyed all this to me : and then resuming her conversation -- `` Pray , my lord , '' said she , `` you who have lived so much in the great world in England , say , for you can , whether I am right or wrong in my suspicion , that these ladies , who have made such a noise in Ireland , have been little heard of in England ? '' 
I confirmed her ladyship 's opinion by my , evidence . 
The warmth of Lady Geraldine 's expressions on this , and many other occasions , wakened dormant feelings in my heart , and made me sensible that I had a soul , and that I was superior to the puppets , with whom I had been classed . 
`` This sonnet , to be sure , is rather difficult to translate , or at least to modernize , as bespoke , '' said Lady Geraldine , after she had perused the sonnet ` En petit compris vous pouvez voir Ce qui comprend beaucoup par renommé , Plume , labeur , la langue , et le devoir Furent vaincus par l'amant de l'aimée . 
Lady Geraldine now , with much energy of indignation , exclaimed against the pretensions of rich amateurs , and the mean and presumptuous manner in which some would-be-great people affect to patronize genius . 
the baseness , the emptiness of such patronizing ostentation , '' cried she . 
`` Nay , I met with them myself only yesterday , '' said Lady Geraldine : `` I was struck with the character of the Duchesse de la Ferté , in which this kind of proud patronizing ignorance is admirably painted from the life . 
`` This speech , Mr. Devereux tells me , has become quite proverbial in Paris , '' continued Lady Geraldine ; `` and it is often quoted , when any one presumes in the Duchesse de Ferté 's style . '' 
`` Ignorance , either in high or low life , is equally self-sufficient , I believe , '' said I , exerting myself to illustrate her ladyship 's remarks . 
''' Though Lady Geraldine spoke only in general of amateur-patrons , and of men of genius , yet I could not help fancying , from the warmth with which she expressed herself , and from her dwelling on the subject so long , that her feelings were peculiarly interested for some individual of this description . 
Thus I discovered , that Lady Geraldine had a heart ; and I suspected , that her ladyship and Mr. Devereux had also made the same discovery . 
Lady Geraldine and Cecil Devereux , as we were drinking coffee , were in a recessed window , whilst some of the company stood round them , amused by their animated conversation . 
`` No , no ; some birds can not live in a cage , my dear , '' cried Lady Geraldine , playfully struggling to get free , whilst the child held her prisoner . 
`` Singing birds , '' interrupted Lady Geraldine , catching the little girl up in her arms , and stopping her from saying more , by beginning to sing most charmingly . 
Lady Geraldine took no notice of it . 
When they did meet , which happened as seldom as possible , there was an air of haughty displeasure on her part ; on his , steady and apparently calm respect and self - satisfaction . 
Her spirits were exuberant , but variable ; and , at times , evidently forced : heis were not high , but even and certain . 
Towards me , her ladyship 's manners were free from coquetry , yet politely gratifying , as she marked , by the sort of conversation she addressed to me , her opinion that I was superior in ability and capability to what I had always thought myself . 
I was resolved , however , to sound him upon the subject of Lady Geraldine . 
Keeping as far away from all allusion to Lady Geraldine , I rallied Mr. Devereux about the fair Clementina , who was evidently a romantic admirer of his . 
`` For states read statesmen , '' said Devereux , who persisted in the vindication of his friend , till Lord O'Toole grew pale with anger , whilst Lord Craiglethorpe smiled with ineffable contempt at the political béoue : Lady Geraldine glowed with generous indignation . 
My esteem for Mr. Devereux was much increased by my daily observations upon his conduct : towards Lady Geraldine I thought it particularly honourable : when her displeasure evidently merged in esteem ; when her manners again became most winning and attractive , his continued uniformly the same ; never passing the bounds of friendly respect , or swerving , in the slightest degree , form the line of conduct , which he had laid down for himself . 
That he liked Lady Geraldine I could scarcely doubt ; but I saw , that he refrained from aiming at the prize , which he knew he ought not to obtain : that he perceived her ladyship 's favourable dispositions towards him , yet denied himself not only the gratification of his vanity , but the exquisite pleasure of conversing with her , lest he should stand in the way of her happier prospects . 
I could not think of Lady Geraldine , without a breach of trust , of which your lordship , I hope , can not suspect me . 
Her mother places confidence in me . 
I am not in love with Lady Geraldine . 
I admire , esteem , respect her ladyship ; and I wish to see her united to a man , if such a man there be , who may deserve her . 
Much as I admired his conduct , I was yet undecided as to my own ; my aversion to a second marriage was not yet conquered : I was amused , I was captivated by Lady Geraldine , but I could not bring myself to think of making a distinct proposal . 
To gain time , I now thought it necessary to verify all the praises Mr. Devereux had bestowed on her ladyship . 
Lady Geraldine was superior to manoeuvring little arts , and petty stratagems , to attract attention . 
She would not stoop , even to conquer . 
From gentlemen she seemed to expect attention as her right , as the right of her sex ; not to beg or accept of it as a favour : if it were not paid , she deemed the gentleman degraded , not herself . 
Far from being mortified by any preference shown to other ladies , her countenance betrayed only a sarcastic sort of pity for the bad taste of the men , or an absolute indifference and look of haughty absence . 
I saw that she beheld with disdain the paltry competitions of the young ladies her companions : as her companions , indeed , she hardly seemed to consider them ; she tolerated their foibles , forgave their envy , and never exerted any superiority , except to show her contempt of vice and meanness . 
`` Nay , '' said Lady Geraldine , `` do not look so respectfully miserable ; if you have any other engagements , you have only to say so ; or if you can not speak , you may bow -- a bow , you know , is an answer to every thing . 
Unconscious of his danger , even though his disease was at its height , he now braved it most imprudently : he was certain , that he should never pass the bounds of friendship ; he had proved this to himself , and was satisfied : he told me , that he could with indifference , nay , with pleasure , see Lady Geraldine mine . 
He was with us almost all day , and Lady Geraldine was more charming than ever . 
The week was fixed for her departure . 
I understood that her ladyship would pass the ensuing winter in Dublin , where she would probably meet with new adorers ; and even if Mr. Devereux should not succeed , some adventurous knight might win and wear the prize . 
It almost decided me to hazard the fatal declaration : but then I recollected , that I might follow her ladyship to town the next winter , and that if the impression did not , as might be hoped , wear off during the intervening autumn , it would be time enough to commit myself , when I should meet my fair one in Dublin . 
I dreaded the departure of Lady Geraldine less than the return of ennui . 
In this frame of mind I was walking one morning in the pleasure-grounds with Lady Geraldine , when a slight accident made me act in direct contradiction to all my resolutions , and , I think , inconsistently with my character . 
We read the lines with all the attention usually paid to a lady 's poetry in the presence of the poetess , and Lady Geraldine and I turned to pay some compliments on the performance , when we found that Lady Kilrush , and all her companions , were gone . 
said Lady Geraldine , `` and there they are , making their way very fast down to the Temple of Folly ! 
I never was seen to run on any occasion , but , to obey Lady Geraldine , I walked as fast as I could to the door , and , to my surprise , found it fastened . 
cried Lady Geraldine ; `` but let us take patience , they will be back presently . 
Her ladyship sat down to reperuse the tablet . 
I never saw her look so beautiful . 
-- The dignified composure of her manner charmed me ; it was so unlike the paltry affectation ! 
I recollected the precedent to which she alluded . 
In what words my long-delayed declaration was made I can not recollect , but I well remember Lady Geraldine 's answer . 
Lady Geraldine listened to me , and then very calmly replied -- `` Granting you believe all that you are saying at this minute , which I must grant from common gratitude , and still more , common vanity ; nevertheless , permit me to assure you , my lord , that this is not love , it is only a fancy -- only the nettlerash , not the plague . 
`` Only a cloud , '' said Lady Geraldine -- `` it will blow over . '' 
`` Now , my lord , '' cried Lady Geraldine ; with a tone and look of comic vexation , `` this is really the most provoking thing imaginable ; you have no idea how you distress me , nor of what exquisite pleasures you deprive me -- all the pleasures of coquetry ; legitimate pleasures , in certain circumstances , as I am instructed to think them by one of the first moral authorities . 
My lord , you will believe me , even from the effort with which I speak ; '' her voice softened , and her face suffused with crimson as she spoke , `` I love another -- my heart is no longer in my own possession ; whether it will ever be in my power , consistently with my duty and his principles , to be united with the man of my choice , is doubtful -- more than doubtful -- but this is certain , that with such a prepossession , such a conviction in my mind , I never could nor ought to think of marrying any other person . '' 
I pleaded , that however deserving of her preference the object of her favour might be , yet that if there were , as her own prudence seemed to suggest obstacles , rendering the probability of her union with that person more than doubtful , it might be possible that her superior sense and strength of mind , joined to the persevering affection of another lover , who would spare no exertions to render himself worthy of her , might , perhaps , in time -- `` No , no , '' said she , interrupting me ; `` do not deceive yourself . 
She looked much disturbed . 
O pray , Lady Kildangan , make haste here , '' continued Mrs. O'Connor ; `` make haste , before Lady Geraldine 's blushes are over . '' 
`` Then it only hurts your conscience to be found out , like all the rest of the vast family of the Surfaces , '' said Lady Geraldine , resuming her spirit . 
continued her ladyship , with a decent suppression of her satisfaction , when she saw , or thought she saw , how matters stood . 
Do n't be vexed , my Geraldine . 
My Geraldine , consider we are all friends . '' 
The door unlocked , and , as we were going out , Lady Geraldine whispered to me : `` For mercy 's sake , my lord , do n't break my poor mother 's heart ! 
Lady Kildangan , who thought that all was now approaching that happy termination she so devoutly wished , was so full of her own happy presentiments , that it was impossible for me to undeceive her ladyship . 
Even , when I announced before her , to Sir Harry Ormsby , that I was obliged to return home immediately on particular business , she was , I am sure , persuaded that I was going to prepare matters for marriage settlements . 
Lady Geraldine , who , at this instant , had retired behind her companions , approached with an air of mingled grace and dignity , bowed her head , and gave me a smile of grateful approbation . 
This is the last image left on my mind , the last look of the charming Geraldine -- I never saw her again . 
That they are all upside down at Ormsby Villa , all mad entirely -- fighting and setting off throught hte kingdom , every one their own way ; and they say , it 's all on account of something that Miss Clemmy Ormsby told , that Lady Geraldine said about my Lord O'Toole 's being no better than a cat 's paw , or something that way , which made his lordship quite mad ; and he said , in the presence of Lord Craiglethorpe , and my lady Kildangan , and Lady Geraldine , and all that were in it , somehting that vexed Lady Geraldine , which made Mr. Cecil Devereux mad next , and he said something smart in reply , that Lord O'Toole could not digest he said , which made his lordship madder than ever , and he discharged Mr. Devereux from his favour , and he is not to get that place that was vacant , the Lord Lieutenancy of some place in the Indies that he was to have had ; this made Lady Geraldine mad , and it was found out she was in love with Mr. Devereux , which made her mother mad , the maddest of all they say so that none can hold her and she is crying night and day how her daughter might have had the first coronet in the kingdom , maning you , my lord , it it had not been that she had prefarred a beggar-man , maning Mr. Cecil Devereux , who is as poor , they say as a Connaughtman -- and he 's forbid to think of her , and she 's forbid , under pain of bread and water , ever to set her eyes upon him the longest day ever she lives ; so they are all to be off with the first light for Dublin ; and that 's all my lard , and all truth , not a word of lies I 'm telling . '' 
My own words to Mr. Devereux , and the parting look of Lady Geraldine , were full in my recollection ; I was determined , by an unexpected exertion , to surprise both the lovers , and to secure for ever their esteem and gratitude . 
I could not bear to see either Mr. Devereux , or Lady Geraldine . 
Soon after my return to Glenthorn Castle , I received a letter of warm thanks from Devereux , and a polite postscript from Lady Geraldine , declaring that , though she felt much pleasure , she could feel no surprise in seeing her opinion of Lord Glenthorn justified ; persuaded , as she and Mr. Devereux had always been , that only motive and opportunity were wanting , to make his lordship 's superior qualities known to the world , and , what is still more difficult , to himself . 
His loss would have been grievous to such a helpless being as I was , had not his place been immediately supplied by that half-witted Irishman , Joe Kelly , who had ingratiated himself with me by a mixture of drollery and simplicity , and by suffering himself to be continually my laughing stock , at the same time when , in imitation of Lady Geraldine , I thought it necessary to have a butt . 
I had no wife or family to make domestic life agreeable ; nor was I inclined to a second marriage , my first had proved so unfortunate , and the recollection of my disappointment with Lady Geraldine was so recent . 
The party was arranged by this lady , who , having the preceding summer seen me captivated by Lady Geraldine , and pitying my disappointment , had formed the obliging design of restoring my spirits , and marrying me to one of her near relations . 
She calculated , that , as I had been charmed by Lady Geraldine 's vivacity , I must be enchanted with the fine spirits of Lady Jocunda Lawler . 
I remember , when Lady Geraldine and he were talking of the regret they felt in leaving Ireland , among the friends whom they lamented that they should not see again , perhaps for years , you were mentioned with peculiar esteem and affection . 
He repeated an assertion , that was supported with much energy by the charming Lady Geraldine , that Lord Glenthorn had abilities to be any thing he pleased ; and the high terms in which they spoke of his talents , and the strong proofs they adduced of the generosity of his character , excited , in my mind , a warm desire to cultivate his acquaintance ; a desire , which has been considerably increased within this last hour . 
I never , even in the presence of Lady Geraldine , exerted myself so much to avoid this disgrace . 
After this visit , Lord Y -- gave me a general invitation to his house , where I frequently saw Miss Delamere , and frequently compared her with my recollection of Lady Geraldine -- . 
Cecilia Delamere was not so entertaining , but she was more interesting than Lady Geraldine ; the flashes of her ladyship 's wit , though always striking , were sometimes dangerous ; Cecilia 's wit , though equally brilliant , shone with a more pleasing and inoffensive light . 
Cecilia had humour , but it played rather upon things than upon persons : she had not the dexterity of Lady Geraldine in drawing caricature , but in favourable likenesses she excelled : she had neither the powers of mimickry , nor the satirical talents , of Lady Geraldine ; but Cecilia 's general observations on life and manners showed more impartiality , and juster discrimination , if not so wide a range of thought . 
With as much generosity as Lady Geraldine could show in great affairs , she had more forbearance and delicacy of attention on every-day occasions . 
Lady Geraldine had much pride , and it often gave offence : Cecilia , perhaps , had more pride , but it never appeared , except upon the defensive : without having less candour , she had less occasion for it than Lady Geraldine seemed to have ; and Cecilia 's temper had more softness and equability . 
I admired Lady Geraldine long before I loved her ; I loved Cecilia long before I admired her . 
Among my pleasures at this studious period of my life , when I had few events to break the uniform tenour of my days , I must mention letters which I frequently received from Mr. Devereux and Lady Geraldine , who still continued in India . 
Some of these friends made for me by Mr. Deveréux and Lady Geraldine ; some by Lord Y -- ; some , may I say it , by myself . 
That I have not relapsed into my former habits , the judicious and benevolent reader will hence infer : and yet I have been in a situation to be spoiled ; for I scarcely know a wish of my heart that remains ungratified , except the wish that my friend Mr. Devereux , and Lady Geraldine , should return from India , to see and partake of that happiness , of which they first prepared the foundation . 
