Little Jane had nursed her mother with fidelity and tenderness , and performed services for her , that her years seemed hardly adequate to , with an efficiency and exactness that surprised all who were prepared to find her a delicately bred and indulged child . 
In the formation of her child 's character , she had been essentially aided by a faithful domestic , who had lived with her for many years , and nursed Jane in her infancy . 
This good woman had been called to a distant place , to attend her dying mother , just before the death of Mrs. Elton ; and thus Jane was deprived of an able assistant , and most tender friend , and left to pass through the dismal scene of death , without any other than occasional assistance from her compassionate neighbours . 
Jane 's relations wore the decent gravity that became the occasion ; but they were of a hard race , and neither the wreck their brother had made , nor the deep grief of the solitary little creature , awakened their pity . 
They even seemed to shun manifesting towards her the kindness of common sympathy , lest it should be construed into an intention of taking charge of the orphan . 
Jane , lost in the depths of her sufferings , seemed insensible to all external things . 
Her countenance was of a death-like paleness , and her features immoveable ; and when , during the sermon , an address was made to her personally by the clergyman , she was utterly unable to rise , one of her aunts , shocked at the omission of what she considered an essential decorum , took her by the arm , and almost lifted her from her seat . 
She stood like a statue , her senses seeming to take no cognizance of any thing . 
Not a tear escaped , nor a sigh burst from her breaking heart . 
As they fell heavily , poor Jane shrieked , `` oh , mother ! '' 
and springing forward , bent over the grave , which , to her , seemed to contain all the world . 
There was a general bustle in the crowd , and two young ladies , more considerate , or perhaps more tender-hearted , than the rest , kindly passed their arms around her , and led her to her home . 
The day after the funeral , Jane was sitting in her mother 's room , which , in her eyes , was consecrated by her sickness and death ; the three aunts met at Mr. Elton 's house ; she heard the ladies approaching through the adjoining apartment , and hastily taking up her Bible , which she had been trying to read , she drew her little bench behind the curtain of her mother 's bed . 
In all their adversity , neither Jane , nor her mother , had ever been cheered by a glimmering of kindness from these relatives . 
Mrs. Elton had founded no expectations on them for her child , but with her usual irresolution she had shrunk from preparing Jane 's mind for the shocks that awaited her . 
The three sisters were led in by a young woman who had offered to stay with Jane till some arrangement was made for her . 
In reply to their asking where she was , the girl pointed to the bed . 
`` There , '' she said , `` taking on despotly . 
-- A body would think , '' added she , `` that she had lost her uncles and aunts as well as her father and mother . 
And she might as well , '' -LRB- she continued , in a tone low enough not to be heard , -RRB- for any good they will do her . '' 
The eldest sister began the conference by saying , `` That she trusted it was not expected she should take Jane upon her hands -- that she was not so well off as either of her sisters -- that to be sure she had no children ; but then Mr. Daggett and herself calculatedto do a great deal for the Foreign Missionary Society ; that no longer ago than that morning , Mr. D. and she had agreed to pay the expense of one of the young Cherokees at the School at -- ; that there was a great work going on in the world , and as long as they had the heart given them to help it , they could not feel it their duty to withdraw any aid for a mere worldly purpose ! '' 
Besides , she added , as she did not live in the same place with Jane , it was not natural she should feel for her . 
It was her decided opinion , that Jane had better be put out at once , at some place where she could do light work till she was a little used to it ; and she would advise too , to her changing her name , the child was so young she could not care about a name , and she should be much mortified to have it known , in the town of -- , that her daughters had a cousin that was a hired girl . 
Mrs. Wilson 's ready answer was prevented by the entrance of Jane 's humble friend , who asked , if the ladies had determined what was to be done with the little girl . 
Mrs. Wilson in her vehemence had quite forgotten the object of their meeting , but now brought back to it , and instigated by a feeling of superiority to Mrs. Convers , and a little nettled by the excuses of Mrs. Daggett , which she thought were meant as a boast of superior piety , she said , that as she had no dancing-masters to pay , and had not `` thatmorning agreed '' to adopt a Cherokee -- she could afford to take Jane for a little while . 
Untying a piece of crape which she had wound around her throat , -LRB- for she was never without some badge of mourning , -RRB- she stooped and gently wiped the tears from Jane 's cheek , saying , in a low tone , `` Bottles full of odours , which are the tears of saints ; '' then rising , she carefully closed the curtains , and busied herself for some minutes in pinning them together . 
She then softly , and on tiptoe , returned to her seat ; and taking some ivy from her broken straw bonnet , began twisting it with the crape . 
`` This , '' said she , `` is a weed for Elder Carrol 's hat ; he lost his wife yesterday , and I have been to the very top of Tauconnick to get him a weed , that shall last fresh as long as his grief . 
See , '' added she , and she held it up , laughing , `` it has begun to wilt already ; it is a true token . '' 
She then rose from her seat , and with a quick step , between running and walking , left the room ; but returning as suddenly , she said slowly and emphatically , `` Offend not this little one ; for her angel does stand before my Father . 
Then , courtseying to the ground , she left them . 
Bet 's solemn and slow manner of pronouncing this warning , was so different from her usually hurried utterance , that it struck a momentary chill to the hearts of the sisters . 
`` Has Jane experienced religion ? '' 
`` How should she ? 
She has not been to a meeting since her mother was first taken sick ; and no longer ago than the day after her mother 's death , when I talked to her of her corrupt state by nature , and the opposition of her heart , -LRB- for I felt it to be my duty , at this peculiar season , to open to her the great truths of religion , and I was faithful to her soul , and did not scruple to declare the whole counsel , -RRB- she looked at me as if she was in a dumb stupor . 
I told her the judgments of an offended God were made manifest towards her in a remarkable manner ; and then I put it to her conscience , whether if she was sure her mother had gone where the worm dieth not and the fire is not quenched , she should be reconciled to the character of God , and be willing herself to promote his glory , by suffering that just condemnation . 
She did not reply one word , or give the least symptom of a gracious understanding . 
But when Mrs. Hervey entered , just as I was concluding , and passed her arm around Jane , and said to her , ` My child , God does not willingly grieve nor afflict you , ' the child sobbed out , ` Oh no ! 
`` No , no , '' she added , after a moment 's hesitation ; `` this does not look as if Jane had a hope . 
Mrs. Wilson told Jane 's attendant , Sally , to inform her , she might come to her house the next day , and stay there for the present . 
Jane poured all her sorrows into Mary 's bosom , and felt already a degree of relief that she had not believed her condition admitted . 
Mary having assuaged the wounds of her youthful friend with the balm of tender sympathy and just consolation , undertook the painful , but necessary , task of exposing to Jane , the evils before her , that she might fortify her against them ; that , as she said , being `` fore-warned , she might be fore-armed . '' 
She did not soften the trials of dependance upon a sordid and harsh nature . 
She told her what demands she would have on her integrity , her patience , and her humility . 
`` But , my child , '' said she , `` do not be down-hearted . 
The evening was spent in packing Jane 's wardrobe , which had been well stocked by her profuse and indulgent parents . 
This was , therefore , carefully packed and prepared for removal ; and Mary , who with her stock of heavenly wisdom had some worldly prudence , hinted to Jane , that she had better keep her things out of the sight of her craving cousins . 
Jane took up her mother 's Bible , and asked Mary , with a trembling voice , if she thought she might be permitted to take that . 
In obedience to the strictest dictates of honesty , Mary forbore from permitting her zeal for Jane 's interests to violate the letter of the law . 
While they were busily occupied with these preparations , Jane received a note from her aunt , saying , that she advised her to secure some small articles which would never be missed : some of `` the spoons , table-linen , her mother 's ivory work-box , '' & c. & c . 
said Mary , to whom Jane had handed the note , `` I am afraid she will load the balance with so much of this vile dust , that when she is weighed her scale will be `` found wanting . '' 
No , Jane , let us keep clean hands , and then we shall have light hearts . '' 
The next morning arrived , and Mary arose before the dawn , in order to remove Jane early , and save her the pain of witnessing the preparations for the vendue . 
Jane understood her kind friend 's design , and silently acquiesced in it , for she had too much good sense to expose herself to any unnecessary suffering . 
But when every thing was in readiness , and the moment of departure arrived , she shrunk back from Mary 's offered arm , and sinking into a chair , yielded involuntarily to the torrent of her feelings . 
Jane looked for the last time at the bed , where she had often sported about her mother , and rejoiced in her tender caresses -- at the curtains , stamped with illustrations of the Jewish history , which had often employed and wearied her ingenuity in comprehending their similitudes -- at the footstool on which she had sat beside her mother ; and the old family clock , `` Whose stroke 't was heaven to hear , When soft it spoke a promised pleasure near . '' 
Her eye turned to the glass , which now sent back her wo-begone image , and she thought of the time , but a little while past , when elated with gratified vanity , or joyful anticipation , she had there surveyed her form arrayed in finery -- now , the rainbow tints had faded into the dark cloud . 
She rose , and walked to the open window , about which she had trained a beautiful honey-suckle . 
The sun had just risen , and the dew-drops on its leaves sparkled in his rays . 
said she , `` even my honey-suckle seems to weep for me . '' 
A robin had built its nest on the vine ; and often as she sat watching her sleeping mother , she had been cheered with its sprightly note , and maternal care of its young . 
She looked to the nest -- the birds had flown ; -- `` They too , '' she exclaimed , `` have deserted this house of sorrow . '' 
`` No , Jane ; '' replied Mary , `` they have been provided with another home , and He who careth for them , will care much more for you . '' 
Jane obeyed the wise admonition of her friend ; and with faltering steps , and without allowing herself time to look again at any thing , hastily passed through the little court yard in front of their house . 
The morning was clear and bright ; and stimulated by the pure air , and nerved by the counsels Mary suggested as they walked along , Jane entered her new home with a composed , timid manner . 
Perhaps her timidity appealing to Mrs. Wilson 's love of authority , produced a softer feeling than she had before shown to Jane ; or perhaps , -LRB- for scarcely any nature is quite hardened , -RRB- the forlornness of the child awakened a transient sentiment of compassion , -- she gave her her hand , and told her she was welcome . 
The children stared at her , as if they had never seen her before , but Jane 's down-cast eye , a little clouded by the gathering tears , saved her from feeling the gaze of their vulgar curiosity . 
Jane , in entering the family of Mrs. Wilson , was introduced to as new a scene as if she had been transported to a foreign country . 
Jane had been gently led in the bands of love . 
She had been taught even more by the example than the precepts of her mother . 
She had seen her mother bear with meekness the asperity and unreasonableness of her father 's temper , and often turn away his wrath with a soft answer . 
Jane had insensibly fallen into her mother 's ways , and had , thus early , acquired a habit of self-command . 
Mr. Lloyd purchased the place and furniture , precisely as it had been left on the morning of the sale by Jane and her friend Mary . 
He takes the liberty to send by the messenger , for Jane Elton , a work-box , dressing-glass , and a few other small articles , for which he has no use , and which , he hopes , she will do him the favour to retain , on account of the value they must have in her eyes . '' 
`` So , '' said she to Jane , who was looking at her for some explanation of the sudden apparition of the work-box , & c. -- `` So , Miss , you have seen fit to disobey the first order I took the trouble to give you . 
`` Oh , Mary , '' said Jane , when they were alone , how glad I am you are going to live with such a good man ; how happy you must be ! '' 
`` And I too , Mary ; '' and she hastily brushed away a tear , `` I am ; at least I should be very happy when I have such a kind friend as you are so near to me . '' 
`` Yes , yes , dear Jane , try to be happy , this foolish aunt of yours will try you like the fire , but I look to see you come out of it as gold from the furnace : keep up a good heart , my child , it is a long lane that never turns . '' 
The friends separated , but not till Mary had with her usual caution carefully packed away Jane 's new treasures , saying , as she did it , `` that it was best to put temptation out of sight . '' 
We must now introduce those who are willing to go further with us in the history of Jane Elton , to the family of Mrs. Wilson , where they will see she had a school for the discipline of christian character . 
`` Jane , '' said Mrs. Wilson to her on the morning after Mary 's departure , `` you know , child , the trouble and expense of taking you upon my hands is very great , but it did not seem suitable that being my brother 's daughter you should be put out at present : you must remember , child , that I am at liberty to turn you away at any time , whereas , as you will always be in debt to me , you can never be at liberty to go when you choose . 
You must help Martha do the ironing , and assist Elvira with the clear starching and other matters ; Nancy will want your aid about the beds ; Sally is but young , and requires more care than I can give her , for my time is at present chiefly spent in instructing the young converts ; and therefore I shall look to you to take the charge of Sally ; and I expect you to take the charge of mending and making for David when he comes home ; the other boys will want now and then a stitch or two ; and , in short , Miss , -LRB- and she increased the asperity of her tone , for she thought Jane 's growing gravity indicated incipient rebellion , -RRB- you will be ready to do every thing that is wanted of you . '' 
Jane was summoning resolution to reply , when both her and her aunt 's attention was called to a rustling at the window , and crazy Bet thrust her head in -- `` Go on , '' said she , and fill up the measure of your iniquities , load her with burthens heavy and grievous to be borne , and do not touch them with one of your fingers . 
-- There , Jane , '' said she , throwing her a bunch of carnations , `` I have just come from the quarterly meeting , and I stopped as I came past your house , and picked these , for I thought their bright colours would be a temptation to the Quaker . 
And I thought too , '' said she , laughing , `` there should be something to send up a sweet smelling savour from the altar where there are no deeds of mercy laid . '' 
`` Aunt , '' said Jane , `` do not mind the poor creature . 
`` I have no answer to make , Ma'am , '' replied Jane , meekly , `` but that I shall do my best to content you . 
There was a dignity in Jane 's manner , that , with the spirit of the reply , taught Mrs. Wilson , that she had , in her niece , a very different subject to deal with from her own wilful and trickish children . 
thought Jane , as she went to execute her aunt 's commission , what good does it do my poor aunt to go to conference ? 
Perhaps this question would not have occurred to many girls of thirteen , but Jane had been accustomed to scan the motives of her conduct , and to watch for the fruit . 
The aid extended to our helpless orphan by her pharisaical aunt , reminds us of the `` right of asylum '' afforded , by the ancients to the offenders who were allowed to take shelter in the temples of their gods , and allowed to perish there . 
She found the girls very much indisposed to the afternoon meeting . 
`` Oh , Jane , '' said she , `` why ca n't you go down and tell Mother you ca n't find me . 
Just tell her , you guess I have gone down to Miss Bancker 's , to inquire whether the tracts have come ; that 's a good thought ; that will quiet her ; '' and she was resuming her book , when seeing Jane did not move , she added , `` I 'll do as much for you any time . '' 
`` I do not think it is so very much , just to go down stairs ; besides , Jane , '' she added , imperiously , `` Mother says , you must do whatever we ask you to . '' 
Elvira was so habituated to deceit , that it never occurred to her , that the falsehood was the difficult part of the errand to Jane ; and when Jane said , `` Cousin Elvira , I will do whatever is reasonable for you , and no more ; any thing that is true , I will tell your Mother for you ; '' she laughed in derision . 
`` Pooh , Jane , you have brought your deaconish nonsense to a poor market . 
replied Jane , smiling , `` That 's no battle , ev'ry body knows , Where one side only gives the blows . '' 
`` That 's true enough , Jane . 
-- Sweet Vivaldi , '' said she , kissing her book , and carefully hiding it in a dark corner of the garret , `` must I part with thee ? '' 
`` One would think , '' said Jane , `` you was parting with your lover . '' 
Elvira was not , at heart , an ill-natured girl ; but having a weak understanding , and rather a a fearful unresisting temper , she had been driven by her Mother 's mode of treatment into the practice of deceit ; and she being the weaker party , used in her warfare , as many arts as a savage practises towards a civilized enemy . 
From such companions , Jane soon found she had nothing to expect of improvement or pleasure ; but , though it may seem quite incredible to some , she was not unhappy . 
The very labour her aunt imposed on her was converted into a blessing , for it occupied her mind , and saved her from brooding on the happy past , or the unhappy present . 
She now found exercise for the domestic talents Mary had so skilfully cultivated . 
Even the unrelenting Mrs. Wilson was once heard to say , with some apparent pleasure , that `` Jane was gifted at all sorts of work . '' 
But more than all , and above all , as a source of contentment and cheerfulness -- better far than ever was boasted of perennial springs , or `` Amreeta cups of immortality '' -- was Jane 's unfailing habit of regulating her daily life by the sacred rules of our blessed Lord . 
She would steal from her bed at the dawn of day , when the songs of the birds were interpreting the stillness of nature , and beauty and fragrance breathing incense to the Maker , and join her devotions to the choral praise . 
At this hour she studied the word of truth and life , and a holy beam of light fell from it on her path through the day . 
Her pleasures at this social period of her life were almost all solitary , except when she was indulged in a visit to Mary , whose eye was continually watching over her with maternal kindness . 
Mary had orders to leave the furniture in a little room that had formerly been assigned to Jane , precisely as she left it , and to tell Jane that it was still called , and should be considered , her room . 
`` And that beautiful honeysuckle , Jane , '' said Mr. Lloyd to her , `` which thy tasteful hand has so carefully trained about the window , is still thine . '' 
These , and many other instances of delicate attention from Mr. Lloyd , saved her from the feeling of forlornness that she might otherwise have suffered . 
A fewmonths after Jane entered her aunt 's family , an unusual commotion had been produced in the village of -- by an event of rare occurrence . 
Elvira expressed her surprise at Jane 's patience under the new dispensation . 
`` To be sure , Jane , '' she said , `` you have not the trial that I have , about the dancing-school , for a poor girl ca n't expect such accomplishments . 
Tell me honestly , Jane , would not you like to learn to dance , if you was not obliged to wear deep mourning , and could afford to pay for it ? '' 
Jane , all used as she was to the coarseness of her cousins , would sometimes feel the colour come unbidden to her cheeks , and she felt them glow as she replied , `` I learned to dance , Elvira , during the year I spent at Mrs. B. 's boarding school . '' 
`` No , '' said Jane ; `` many things have happened to me that you never heard me say a word about . '' 
`` But now , Jane , '' said she , shutting the door , and lowering her voice , `` I have hit upon a capital plan to cheat mother . 
For once , Jane , be generous , and lend me a helping-hand . 
At any rate , you know , if she should not be any worse , you can sit up till 12 o'clock , and I will just tap at Phillis 's bed-room window , and you wo n't refuse , Jane , to slip the bolt of the outside door for me . '' 
Jane told her she could not take part in her projects ; but , Elvira trusting to the impulse of her cousin 's good-nature , adhered to her plan . 
Elvira , arrayed in all the finery her own wardrobe supplied , and crowned with Jane 's wreath , went off to her expecting gallant , leaving Jane by the bedside of Phillis ; and there the sweet girl kindly watched alone , till after the return of the family from the conference , till after the bell had summoned the household to the evening prayer , and till after the last lingering sound of fastening doors , windows , & c. died away . 
Jane 's fortitude forsook her , and she ventured to call her aunt , who had but just entered the room , when the poor creature expired . 
In the last struggle she grasped Jane 's hand , and as her fingers released their hold , and the arm fell beside her , Jane raised it up , and gently laying it across her body , and retaining the hand for a moment in her own , she said , `` Poor Phillis ! 
`` You take upon you to say a great deal , Jane , '' replied her aunt . 
`` But , '' said Jane , as if she did not quite comprehend the import of her aunt 's remark , `` Phillis was very faithful over her little . '' 
`` That 's nothing to the purpose , Jane , '' answered Mrs. Wilson . 
Jane made no reply , unless the tear she dropped on her old friend might be deemed one , and Mrs. Wilson added , `` Now , child , you must get the things together , to lay her out . '' 
Jane went out of the room to execute her orders . 
She had scarcely gone , when Mrs. Wilson heard the window carefully raised , and some one said , `` Here I am , Jane ; go softly and slip the bolt of the west door , and do n't for the world wake the old lady . '' 
She smothered her rage for a few moments , and creeping softly to the passage , opened the door , and admitted the rebel , who followed her to Phillis 's room , saying , `` Oh , Jane , you are a dear good soul for once . 
By this time they had arrived at Phillis 's room , where Jane had just entered with a candle in her hand . 
continued the furious creature , turning to Jane , `` is this my reward for warming you in my bosom ? 
Jane had often seen her aunt angry , but she had never witnessed such passion as this , and she was for a moment confounded ; but like a delicate plant that bends to the ground before a sudden gust of wind , and then is firm and erect as ever , she turned to Mrs. Wilson , and said , `` Ma'am , I have never deceived or aided others to deceive you . '' 
Jane looked to her cousin , who had recoiled from the cold body of Phillis , and sat in sullen silence on a trunk at the foot of the bed , -- `` Elvira , '' said she , `` you will do me the justice to tell your mother I had no part in your deception . '' 
She therefore compromised with her conscience , and merely said , -- `` Jane knew I was going . '' 
`` I was sure of it , -- I was sure of it ; I always knew she was an artful jade ; ` still waters run deep ; ' but she shall be exposed , the mask shall be stripped from the hypocrite . '' 
`` Aunt , '' said Jane , in a voice so sweet , so composed , that it sounded like the breath of music following the howlings of an enraged animal , `` Aunt , we are in the chamber of death ; and in a little time you , and I , and all of us , shall be as this poor creature ; as you will then wish your soul to be lightened of all injustice -- spare the innocent now ; you know I never deceived you ; Elvira knows it ; I am willing to bear any thing it pleases God to lay upon me , but I can not have my good name taken , it is all that remains to me . '' 
It may seem strange , that Mrs. Wilson should have manifested such anxiety to throw the blame of this affair on Jane ; but however a parent may seek by every flattering unction vanity can devise , to evade the truth , the misconduct of a child will convey a reproach , and reflect dishonour on the author of its existence . 
Jane and Elvira crept to their beds without exchanging a single word . 
She knew she could not accuse Jane , without exposing Elvira , and besides she did not care to have it known that her sagacity had been outwitted by these children . 
Therefore , though she appeared at breakfast more sulky and unreasonable than usual , she took no notice of the transactions of the preceding night , and they remained secret to all but the actors in them ; except that we have reason to believe , from Mr. Lloyd 's increased attention to Jane , shortly after , that they had been faithfully transmitted to him by Mary Hull , the balm of whose sympathy it can not be deemed wonderful our little solitary should seek . 
The dancing school had passed without a sigh of regret from Jane ; but now she felt severely her privation . 
Her watchful friend , Mary Hull , remarked the melancholy look that was unheeded at her aunt 's ; and she inquired of Jane , `` Why she was so downcast ? '' 
she replied , `` it is a long time since I have felt the merry spirit which the wise man says , is ` medicine to the heart . '' ' 
`` That 's true , Jane ; but then there 's nobody , that is , there 's nobody that has so little reason for it as you have , that has a more cheerful look . '' 
`` I have great reason to be cheerful , Mary , in token of gratitude for my kind friends here ; and , '' added she , taking Mr.Lloyd 's infant , who playfully extended her arms to her , `` you and I are too young , Rebecca , to be very sad . '' 
The child felt the tear that dewed the cheek to which she was pressed , and looking into Jane 's face , with instinctive sympathy , burst into tears . 
Mr. Lloyd entered at this moment , and Jane hastily replacing the child in Mary Hull 's lap , and tying on her hat , bade them farewell . 
Mr. Lloyd had often regretted , that it was so little in his power to benefit Jane . 
The school occurred to him , and as nothing was more improbable than that Mrs. Wilson would , herself , incur the expense of Jane 's attendance , he consulted with Mary as to the best mode of doing it himself , without provoking Mrs. Wilson 's opposition , or offending her pride . 
A few days after , when the agent for the school presented the subscription list to Mrs. Wilson for her signature , she saw there , to her utter astonishment , Jane Elton 's name . 
Mrs. Wilson , at first , said , it was impossible ; she could not spare Jane ; but afterwards , she consented to take it into consideration . 
The moment the man had shut the door , she turned to Jane , and misunderstanding the flush of pleasure that brightened her usually pale face , she exclaimed , `` And so , Miss , this is one of your plans to slip your neck out of the yoke of duty . '' 
Jane said , she had nothing to do with the plan , but she trusted her aunt would not oblige her to lose such a golden opportunity of advantage . 
Mrs. Wilson made various objections , and Jane skilfully obviated them all . 
At last she said , `` There would be a piece of linen to make up for David , and that put it quite out of the question , for , '' said she , `` I shall not take the girls from their studies ; and even you , Miss Jane , will probably have the grace to think my time more precious than yours . '' 
`` Well , aunt , '' said Jane , with a smile so sweet that even Mrs. Wilson could not entirely resist its influence , `` if I will get the linen made by witch or fairy , may I go ? '' 
Jane 's reliance was on kindness more potent than any modern magic ; and that very evening , with the light-bounding step of hope , she went to her friend Mary 's , where , after having made her acknowledgments to Mr. Lloyd with the grace of earnestness and sincerity , she revealed to Mary the only obstacle that now opposed her wishes . 
Mary at once , as Jane expected , offered to make the linen for her ; and Jane , affectionately thanking her , said , she was sure her aunt would be satisfied , for she had often heard her say , `` Mary Hull was the best needle woman in the county . '' 
Mrs. Wilson had seen Jane so uniformly flexible and submissive to her wilful administration , and in matters she deemed of vastly more consequence than six months schooling , that she was all astonishment to behold her now so persevering in her resolution to accomplish her purpose . 
But Jane 's and Mrs. Wilson 's estimate of the importance of any given object was very different . 
The same fortitude that enabled Jane to bear , silently and patiently , the `` oppressor 's wrong , '' nerved her courage in the attainment of a good end . 
Mrs. Wilson had no longer any pretence to oppose Jane 's wishes ; and the following day she took her place , with her cousins , at Mr. Evertson 's school . 
Her education had been very much advanced for her years ; so that , though four years younger than Martha Wilson , she was , after a very careful examination by the teacher , classed with her . 
This was a severe mortification to Martha 's pride ; she seemed to feel her cousin 's equality an insult to herself , and when she reported the circumstance to her mother , she said , she believed it was all owing to Jane 's soft answers and pretty face ; or `` may be the Quaker , who takes such a mighty fancy to Jane , has bribed Mr. Evertson . '' 
`` Very likely , very likely , '' answered her mother . 
Jane , once more placed on even ground with her companions , was like a spring relieved from a pressure . 
She entered on her new pursuits with a vigour that baffled the mean attempts of the family at home to impede or hinder her course . 
She was not a genius , but she had that eager assiduity , that `` patient attention , '' to which the greatest of philosophers attributed the success which has been the envy and admiration of the world . 
There was a perpetual sunshine in her face , that delighted her patron . 
He had thought nothing could be more interesting than Jane 's pensive dejected expression ; but he now felt , that it was beautiful as well as natural for the young plant to expand its leaves to the bright rays of the sun , and to rejoice in his beams . 
Double duties were laid on Jane at home , but she won her way through them . 
The strict rule of her aunt 's house did not allow her to `` watch with the constellations , '' but she `` made acqaintance with the gray dawn , '' and learnt by `` employing them well , '' -LRB- the mode recommended by Elizabeth Smith , -RRB- the value of minutes as well as hours . 
When the prizes for arithmetic , grammer , geography , history , and philosophy , were one after another , in obedience to the award of the examiners , delivered to Jane , by her gratified master , Martha Wilson burst into tears of spite and mortification , and Elvira whispered to the young lady next her , `` She may have her triumph now , but I will have one worth a hundred prizes to-morrow , for , I am sure that my composition will be preferred to hers . '' 
Mrs. Wilson , whose maternal pride -LRB- for maternal tenderness she had not -RRB- was swollen by the consciousness of triumph over Jane , nodded and whispered to all within her hearing , `` My daughter , sir '' -- `` my daughter , ma'am ; you see , by the bill , the prize composition is to be spoken by the writer of it . '' 
The curtain was once more withdrawn , and discovered Jane seated on the throne , looking like the `` meek usurper , '' reluctant to receive the honour that was forced upon her . 
She presented a striking contrast to the deposed sovereign . 
She was dressed in a plain black silk frock , and a neatly plaited muslin vandyke ; her rich light brown hair was parted on her forehead , and put up behind in a handsome comb , around which one of her young friends had twisted an `` od ` rous chaplet of sweet summer buds . '' 
She advanced with so embarrassed an air , that even Mary Hull thought her triumph cost more than it was worth . 
As Jane returned to her seat , her face brightened with the relief of having got through . 
Jane Elton has certainly grown very handsome . '' 
`` Yes , '' replied his friend ; `` I always thought her pretty , but you prefer her cousin . '' 
`` I did prefer her cousin , '' answered Erskine ; `` but I never noticed Jane much before ; she is but a child , and she has always looked so pale and so sad since the change in her family . 
Jane 's situation , at her aunt 's , was rendered more painful than ever , from the events of the school and the exhibition . 
In vain Jane tried , by her usefulness to her aunt , to win her favour , and by the most patient obedience to her unreasonable commands , by silent uncomplaining submission , to sooth her into kindness . 
It was all in vain ; her aunt was more oppressive than ever ; Martha more rude , and Elvira more tormenting . 
Jane was grateful , and returned his kindness with frankness and affection . 
But she was soon obliged , by the freedom of his manners to treat him with reserve . 
His pride was wounded , and he joined the family league against her . 
Mr. Lloyd was made acquainted with all the embarrassments in Jane 's condition , by Mary Hull . 
He would have rejoiced to have offered Jane a home , but he had no right to interfere ; he was a stranger , and he well knew , that Mrs. Wilson would not consent to any arrangement that would deprive her of Jane 's ill-requited services , -- such services as money could not purchase . 
Jane had passed a day of unusual exertion , and just at the close of it she obtained her aunt 's reluctant leave to pay a visit to Mary Hull . 
Jane 's spirits rose elastic , as she breathed the open air ; she felt like one who has just issued from a close , pent-up , sick room , and inspires the fresh pure breath of morning ; she was gayly tripping along , sending an involuntary response to the last notes of the birds that were loitering on `` bush and brake , '' when Edward Erskine joined her ; she had often seen him at her aunt 's , but , regarding him as the companion of her cousins , she had scarcely noticed him , or had been noticed by him . 
He joined her , saying , `` It is almost too late to be abroad without a companion . '' 
`` I am used , '' replied Jane , `` to be without a companion , and I do not need one . '' 
It would be one of the miseries of human life , to see such a girl as Jane Elton walking alone , and not be permitted to join her . '' 
said Jane , confounded by Edward 's unexpected gallantry . 
Abashed by her simplicity , he replied , `` that he was going to walk , and should be very happy to attend her . '' 
Jane felt kindness , though she knew not how to receive gallantry . 
She thanked him , and they walked on together . 
When Edward parted from her , he wondered he had never noticed before how very interesting she was , `` and what a sweet expression she has when she smiles ; and , oh ! '' 
added he , with a rapture quite excusable in a young man of twenty , `` her eye is in itself a soul . '' 
`` Jane , '' said Mary Hull to her , as she entered her room , `` you look as bright as a May morning , and I have that to tell you , that will make you yet brighter . 
His sick wife and large family , he said , consumed nearly all his profits ; and last , and best of all , Jane , he said , that you was the person he should prefer of all others for an assistant . '' 
exclaimed Jane . 
`` But , Mary , Mary , '' and the bright flush of pleasure died away as she spoke , `` where am I to get a hundred dollars ? '' 
`` No , Mary , '' replied Jane , after a few moments consideration , `` I never can consent to that . '' 
Jane could not tell why , but she felt that it was not delicate to incur such an obligation . 
She merely said , `` Mr. Lloyd 's means are well employed . 
Jane was making a strong mental effort to subdue that longing after liberty , that lurks in every heart . 
Habitual discipline had rendered it comparatively easy for her to restrain her wishes . 
After a short struggle , she said , with a smile , `` I am sure of one thing , my dear , kind Mary , I shall never lose an opportunity of advantage , while I have such a watchful sentinel as you are , on the look-out for me . 
`` Now , dear Jane , '' said she , `` I have one more plan to propose to you , and though it will cost you some pain , I think you will finally see it in the same light that I do . 
`` But , Mary , '' said Jane , wishing , perhaps , to conceal from herself even the involuntary reluctance she felt to the proposal , `` aunt Wilson will never consent to it . '' 
Mary 's long harangue had given Jane a moment for reflection , and she now saw the obvious benefits to result from the adoption of her judicious friend 's plan . 
The real sorrows that had shaded her short life , had taught her not to waste her sensibility on trifles . 
She doubtless felt it to be very painful to part with any memorials of her mother , but the moment she was convinced it was right and best she should do so , she consented , and cheerfully , to the arrangement . 
The necessity of secrecy increased the difficulty of the transaction ; but finally , zeal and perseverance mastered every obstacle , and Mary , with sparkling eyes , and a face that smiled all over in spite of its habitual sobriety , put Jane in possession of the hundred dollars . 
`` This is indeed manna in the wilderness , '' said Jane , as she received it , `` but , dear Mary , I am not the less thankful to you for your exertions for me . '' 
`` I am troubled , '' answered Jane , `` I fear , Mary , this sum can not all have come from the articles you sold ; you have added some of your earnings . '' 
No , Jane , the money is all yours ; I have told Mr. Evertson , and you are to enter the school on Monday , and I have engaged a place for you at Mrs. Hervey 's , who will be as kind as a mother to you . 
Jane had now nothing to do but to communicate these arrangements ; but so much did she dread the tempest she knew the intelligence would produce , that she suffered the day to wear away without opening her lips on the subject . 
The next day arrived ; the time of emancipation was so near , she felt her spirits rise equal to the disagreeable task . 
Jane was quietly sewing , and mentally resolving that she would speak on the dreaded subject the moment her aunt had finished the business at which she was engaged . 
Mrs. Wilson 's temper became so much ruffled that she could not understand the accounts ; so shuffling the papers all together into her desk , and turning the key , she said angrily to her son , ` her eldest hope , ' `` you will please to bear in mind , sir , that all these extravagant bills are charged to you , and shall come out of your portion -- not a cent of them will I ever pay . '' 
This did not seem to be a very propitious moment for Jane 's communication , but she dreaded it so much , that she felt impatient to have it off her mind , and laying down her work , she was fearfully beginning , when she was interrupted by a gentle tap at the door . 
She was aware that old acquaintance might create a claim upon her charity , and she did not seem well-pleased when Jane , who sat near , pushed a chair forward for the poor woman , into which she sunk , as it appeared from utter inability to stand . 
`` Let me take your baby , while you rest a little , '' said Jane . 
Jane persisted in her kind offer , and the woman turned again to Mrs. Wilson -- `` Ca n't you call to mind , ma'am , Polly Harris , that lived five years at your brother Squire Elton 's ? '' 
-- I am afraid the child tires you , miss ; '' she continued , turning to Jane who had walked to the window to hide the emotion the woman 's remarks produced . 
`` No , '' replied Jane , `` I had rather keep him ; '' and the woman proceeded -- `` It lacked but six weeks of the five years I had lived at the Squire 's , when I was married to Rufus Winthrop . 
Jane cast her eye on the slip of paper in her aunt 's hand ; it was but too plainly written in her father 's large and singular character . 
`` Is that little Jane , '' exclaimed the woman , for the first time recalling to mind the features of our heroine . 
`` Well , '' added she , surveying her delicate person with a mingled expression of archness and simplicity , `` I think it ca n't have cost you much to support her , ma'am . 
Jane replaced the child in the mother 's lap , and said to Mrs. Winthrop , `` I recollect you perfectly , Polly . 
`` I could not help it , for you was always as pleasant as a little lamb , and as chipper as a bird ; but , '' said she , observing the too evident traces of tears on Jane 's cheeks , `` I am sorry if I have touched your feelings about the money . 
`` Do not be uneasy on that account , '' replied Jane . 
She had listened to the unfortunate woman 's history with the keenest anguish . 
The injustice of her father appeared to Jane to have either caused or aggravated every evil the poor woman had suffered . 
Jane had not been used to parleying with her duties , or stifling the voice of conscience ; and in a moment the recollection of her father 's dishonesty , and the poor woman 's perishing condition , swept away every selfish consideration . 
she exclaimed , `` if I have not compassion on my fellow-servant , how can I hope for thy pity . '' 
Mrs. Winthrop was for a moment dumb with surprise ; then bursting into tears of gratitude and joy , she would have overwhelmed Jane with thanks , but she stopped her , saying , `` No , Polly , I have only done what was right . 
And when she heard Jane Elton 's name mentioned , she would roll up her eyes and say , `` That if every body knew as much as she did , they would think that girl was an angel upon earth . '' 
Jane had a difficult task in reconciling her friend Mary to her disappointment . 
While she felt a secret delight in the tried rectitude of her favourite , she could not deny herself the indulgence of a little repining -- `` If you had but waited , Jane , till Mr. Lloyd came home , he would have advanced the money with all his heart . '' 
`` It seems to me , Jane , '' replied Mary , `` you pick fruit from every good tree , no matter whose vineyard it grows in . 
`` Tell them nothing , '' said Jane , `` but that I had an unexpected call for the money , and beg them to mention nothing of the past , for I will not unnecessarily provoke aunt Wilson . '' 
`` Jane , '' said Mary earnestly , `` you must not deny me the satisfaction of telling how you have laid out the money . '' 
`` No , '' replied Jane , `` you can not have that pleasure without telling whyI was obliged thus to lay it out . 
-- Oh , '' added she with more emotion than she had yet shown , `` I have never blamed my father that he left me pennyless ; had he left me the inheritance of a good name , I would not have exchanged it for all the world can give ! '' 
Mr. Evertson was exceedingly disappointed ; he said he had already had an offer of a very good assistant , who could furnish more money than he expected from Jane ; he had preferred Jane Elton , for no sum could outweigh her qualifications for the station he wished her to fill . 
He was , however , obliged to her for so promptly informing him of her determination , as he had not yet sent a refusal to the person who had solicited the place . 
Mrs. Harvey , not content with deploring , which she did sincerely , that she could not have Jane for an inmate , wondered what upon earth she could have done with a hundred dollars ! 
and concluded `` that it would be just like Jane Elton , though it would not be like any body else in the world , to pay one of her father 's old debts with it . '' 
Let that be as it may ; all parties promised , and what is much more extraordinary , preserved secrecy ; and all that was left of Jane 's hopes and plans was the consciousness of having acted right -- from right motives . 
Could any one have seen the peacefulness of her heart , he would have pronounced that consciousness a treasure that has no equivalent . 
The reader shall therefore be allowed to pass over this interval , with merely a remark , that Jane had improved in mortal and immortal graces ; that the developement of her character seemed to interest and delight Mr. Lloyd almost as much as the progress of his own child , and that her uniform patience had acquired for her some influence over the bad passions of her aunt , whose rough points seemed to be a little worn by the continual dropping of Jane 's virtues . 
Elvira , at eighteen , was much the same as at sixteen , except , that the gayety of her spirits was somewhat checked by the apprehension -LRB- that seemed to have grown of late -RRB- that Edward Erskine 's affections , which had been vacillating for some time between her and her cousin , would finally preponderate in Jane 's favour . 
He neither estimated the purity of Jane 's character , as it deserved to be estimated , nor felt for the faults of Elvira the dislike they merited . 
If she opened her doors to young Erskine , to display her daughter , Jane must be seen too ; and though she was sufficiently ingenious in contriving ways and means of employing Jane , and securing a clear field for Elvira , Erskine , with the impatience and perversity of a spoiled child , set a double value on the pleasure that was denied him . 
The affairs of Mrs. Wilson 's household were in this train , when the following conversation occurred between the cousins : -- `` If there is a party made to-morrow , to escort the bride , do you expect to join it , Jane ? '' 
`` I should like to , '' replied Jane . 
`` For once in your life , Jane , do be content to speak less like an oracle , and tell me in plain English , whether you expect to go , if you can obtain mother 's permission . '' 
`` In plain English then , Elvira , yes , '' replied Jane , smiling . 
Jane 's deep blush revealed the truth to her suspicious cousin , which she did not wish to confess or evade ; and Elvira continued , `` I was sure I overheard Edward say something to you , about the ride last night , when you parted on the steps . '' 
She paused , and then added , her eyes flashing fire , `` Jane , Edward Erskine preferred me once , and in spite of your arts , he shall prefer me again . 
Jane replied , good naturedly , `` I do remember her ; but if her proud and artful character suits me , the poverty and helplessness of my condition bears a striking resemblance to the forlorn Amanda 's . 
Jane made no reply , and Elvira poured out her spleen in invectives , which neither abated her own ill humour , nor disturbed her cousin 's equanimity . 
Mrs. Wilson dropped half a needle full of stitches on her knitting work , and gave it to Jane to take them up . 
Jane seemed to find the task very difficult ; for a little girl , who sat by the working stand , observed , `` Miss Jane , I could take up the stitches better than you do ; you miss them half . '' 
It was a warm evening in the latter part of September ; the window was open ; Jane retreated to it , and busied herself in pulling the leaves off a rose-bush . 
Before Mrs. Wilson had made up her mind whether or not to resent the sarcasm , Erskine rose , and joining Jane at the window , whispered to her , `` Rouse your spirit , for heaven 's sake ; do not submit to such tyranny . '' 
Jane had recovered her self-possession , and she replied , smiling , `` It is my duty to subdue , not rouse my spirit . '' 
`` That promise was conditional , '' replied Jane , `` and it is no longer in my power to perform it . '' 
Jane was not well pleased that Erskine should persevere , at the risk of involving her with her aunt ; and to avoid his importunity , and her aunt 's displeasure , she left the room . 
Elvira was sitting by her mother , and she turned upon him a look of appeal and admiration ; his vanity , which had been piqued by Jane , was soothed by this tribute , and he said , `` If Miss Wilson is inclined to the party , I will call for her to-morrow . '' 
Elvira had penetration enough to detect the weakest points in the fortress she had to assail ; and so skilfully and successfully did she ply her arts , on this triumphant day , that Erskine scarcely thought of Jane , and we fear not once with regret . 
Poor Jane remained at home , mortified that Edward went without her , and vexed with herself that she was mortified . 
To avoid seeing the party on their return , she went out to walk , and was deliberating whither to direct her steps , when she met her friend Mr. Lloyd . 
`` Ah , Jane , '' said he , `` I just came on an errand from my saucy little girl : she has succeeded for the first time to-day in hitching words together , so as to make quite an intelligible sentence ; and she is so much elated , that she had bid me tell thee she can not go to sleep till `` dear Jane '' has heard her read . '' 
Jane replied , she `` should be glad to hear her ; '' but with none of the animation with which she usually entered into the pleasures of her little friend . 
Mr. Lloyd was disappointed ; but he thought she had been suffering some domestic vexation , and they walked on silently . 
`` You forget , '' replied Jane , who felt her silence gently reproached , `` that besides all the use you have for that precious faculty , in persuading the stupid and the obstinate to adopt your benevolent plans of reform , you sometimes condescend to employ it in behalf of a very humble young friend . '' 
Jane was a little disconcerted , and Mr. Lloyd did not seem quite free from embarassment ; but as he had roused her from her abstractedness , he began to expatiate on the approach of evening , the charms of that hour when the din of toil has ceased , and no sound is heard but the sweet sounds of twilight breathing the music of nature 's evening hymn ; he turned his eye to the heavens , which , in their ` far blue arch , ' disclosed star after star , and then the constellations in their brightness . 
Jane was affected by his devotion ; it was a promethean touch that infused a soul into all nature . 
She listened with delight , and before they reached the house , her tranquillity was quite restored ; and the child and father were both entirely satisfied with the pleasure she manifested in the improvement of her little favourite . 
But her trials were not over : after the lesson was past -- `` Dear Jane , '' said Rebecca , `` why did not thee go with the party to-day ? 
I saw them all go past here , and Mr. Erskine and Elvira were laughing , and I looked out sharp for thee ; would not any body take thee , Jane ? '' 
Jane did what of all other things she would least have wished to have done -- she burst into tears . 
The sweet child , whose directness had taken her by surprise , crept up into her lap , and putting her arms around her neck , said affectionately , `` I am sorry for thee , dear Jane ; do n't cry , father would have asked thee , if he had gone . '' 
Poor Jane hid her blushes and her tears on the bosom of her kind , but unskilful comforter . 
She felt the necessity of saying something ; but confessions she could not make , and pretences she never made . 
Mr. Lloyd saw and pitied her confusion : he rose , and tenderly placing his hand on her head , he said , `` My dear young friend , thou hast wisely and safely guided thy little bark thus far down the stream of life ; be still vigilant and prudent , and thou wilt glide unharmed through the dangers that alarm thee . '' 
He then relieved Jane from his presence , saying , `` I am going to my library , and will send Mary to escort thee home . '' 
Jane could not have borne a plainer statement of her case ; and though it was very clear that Mr. Lloyd had detected the lurking weakness of her heart , she was soothed by his figurative mode of insinuating his knowledge and his counsel . 
Nothing that concerned Jane was uninteresting to him ; and he had watched with eager anxiety the character and conduct of Erskine . 
Jane Elton , pure , excellent as she is , can not love such a man as Edward Erskine appears to me to be ; and she is too noble , I am sure , to regard the advantages which excite the cupidity of her vulgar aunt . ' 
There was nothing in his character or history , as far as Mr. Lloyd could ascertain it , that would give him a right to interfere with his advice to Jane ; but still he felt as if she was on the brink of a precipice , and he had no right to warn her of her danger . 
Mr. Lloyd hoped -- believed that Jane would not marry Edward Erskine ; but he did not allow enough for the inexperience of youth , for the liability of a young lady of seventeen to fall in love ; for the faith that hopes all things , and believes all things -- it wishes to believe . 
Edward certainly preferred Jane , and yet he was more at his ease with Elvira . 
He could not but perceive the decided superiority of Jane ; but Elvira made him always think more and better of himself ; and this most agreeable effect of her flatteries and servility reflected a charm on her . 
Jane was never less satisfied with herself than during this harassing period of her life . 
A new set of feelings were springing up in her heart , over which she felt that she had little control . 
At times , her confidence in Edward was strong ; and then , suddenly , a hasty expression , or an unprepared action , revealed a trait that deformed the fair proportions of the hero of her imagination . 
Itwas on the evening of the day on which the conversation we have related , had occurred between young Wilson and his mother , that Jane , just as she had parted with Erskine , after an unusually delightful walk , and was entering her aunt 's door , heard her name pronounced in a low voice . 
She turned , and saw an old man emerging from behind a projection of the house . 
He placed his finger on his lips by way of an admonition to silence , and said softly to Jane , `` For the love of Heaven , come to my house to-night ; you may save life ; tell no one , and come after the family is in bed . '' 
`` But , John , I do not know the way to your house , '' replied Jane , amazed at the strange request . 
`` Well , '' said Jane , after a moment 's pause , `` if I go , how shall I find the way ? '' 
`` But , '' said Jane , `` may I not get some one else to go with me ? '' 
Jane was about to make some further protestation , when a sound from the house alarmed the man , and he disappeared as suddenly as he had made his entree . 
Jane knew John was honest and kind-hearted , and particularly well disposed to her , for he had occasionally brought her a pretty wild-flower , or a basket of berries , and then he would say , `` Ah , Miss Jane , I grow old and forgetful , but the old man ca n't forget the kindness that 's been done to him in days past ; you as gay as a lark then . 
After John 's departure , Jane remained for a few moments where he had left her , ruminating on his strange request , when her attention was called to a noise in her aunt 's sleeping apartment , and she heard , as she thought , crazy Bet 's voice raised to its highest pitch . 
She passed hastily through the passage , and on opening her aunt 's door , she beheld a scene of the greatest confusion . 
The bed-clothes had been hastily stripped from the bed and strewed on the floor , and Bet stood at the open window with the bed in her right hand . 
She had , by a sudden exertion of her strength , made an enormous rent in the well-wove home-made tick , and was now quite leisurely shaking out the few feathers that still adhered to it . 
In her left hand she held a broom , which she dexterously brandished , to defend herself from the interference of Sukey , the coloured servant girl , who stood panic-struck and motionless ; her dread of her mistress ' vengeance impelling her forward , and her fear of the moody maniac operating upon her locomotive powers , like a gorgon influence . 
exclaimed Jane , hastily passing the girl . 
At Jane 's approach Bet dropped the broom , and threw the empty bed-tick at poor Sukey , who shook it off , not , however , till her woolly pate was completely powdered with the lint . 
`` But , Bet , '' said Jane , `` where are the feathers ? '' 
child , '' she replied , smiling with the most provoking indifference , `` where are last year 's mourners ? 
she replied , with a tone in which sorrow and anger were equally mingled , and then putting her finger to her forehead , she added , `` the light is quite out , there is not a glimmering left . '' 
Jane felt that the poor woman was not a subject for reproach ; and turning away , she said , `` Aunt will be very angry . '' 
The recollection of the promise she had given to John now occurred to Jane , and she was deliberating whether or not to speak to Bet about it , when Mrs. Wilson , who had been absent on a visit to one of her neighbours , came in . 
Mrs. Wilson turned to Jane , and with that disposition which such persons have when any evil befals them , to lay the blame on somebody , she would have vented her spite on her , but it was too evident that the only part Jane had had in the misfortune was an ineffectual effort to avert it , and the good lady was deprived of even that alleviation of her calamity . 
This scene , notwithstanding the pecuniary loss sustained by Mrs. Wilson , occasioned Jane a good deal of diversion . 
Still it was not at all calculated to inspire her with confidence in the guide , whose wild and fantastic humours she knew it to be impossible for any one to control . 
Her resolution was a little shaken ; but , after all , she thought , `` It is possible I may find the house without her . 
Still , after the family were all hushed in repose , and Jane had stolen from her bed and dressed herself for her secret expedition , she shrunk involuntarily from the task before her . 
`` I do not like this mystery , '' said she , mentally ; `` I wish I had told my aunt , and asked David to go with me , or I might have told Mary Hull . 
She rose from the bed , where she had seated herself to ponder , for the last time , upon the difficulties before her , crept softly down stairs , passed her aunt 's room , and got clear of the house unmolested , except by a slight growl from Brutus , the house-dog , whose dreams she had broken , but , at her well-known kindly patting , and `` Lie down Brutus , lie down , '' he quietly resumed his sleeping posture . 
Her courage was stimulated by having surmounted one obstacle . 
`` Now , '' thought Jane , `` that I have stirred up my womanish thoughts with a manly spirit , I wonder what I could have been afraid of . '' 
Anxious to ascertain whether she was to have the doubtful aid of crazy Bet 's conduct , or trust solely to her own , she pressed onward . 
To shorten her way to Lucy 's grave , and to avoid the possibility of observation , she soon left the public road , and walked along under the shadow of a low-browed hill , which had formerly been the bank of the river , but from which it had receded and left an interval of beautiful meadow between the hill and its present bed . 
The way was , as yet , perfectly familiar to Jane . 
After walking some distance in a straight line , she crossed the meadow by a direct path to a large tree , which had been , in part , uprooted by a freshet , and which now laid across the river , and supplied a rude passage to the adventurous , the tenacity of some of its roots still retaining it firmly in the bank . 
Sit down and rest you , '' she continued , for Jane was out of breath from ascending the steep bank where crazy Bet stood ; `` sit down , child ; you may sit quiet . 
`` Oh , Bet , '' said Jane , `` if you love me , take those greens off your head ; they make you look so wild . '' 
A stouter heart than Jane 's would have quailed at Bet 's appearance . 
She had taken off her old bonnet and tied it on a branch of the tree that shaded the grave , and twisted around her head a full leaved vine , by which she had confined bunches of wild flowers , that drooped around her pale brow and haggard face ; her long hair was streaming over her shoulders ; her little black mantle thrown back , leaving her throat and neck bare . 
The excitement of the scene , the purpose of the expedition , and the moonlight , gave to her large black eyes an unusual brightness . 
To Jane 's earnest entreaty she replied , `` Child , you know not what you ask . 
`` But , '' said Jane , in a tone of more timid expostulation , `` what have I to guard me , Bet ? '' 
and as she spoke she stroked Jane 's hair back from her pure smooth brow ; `` have not you innocence ? 
Jane obeyed her command , and rallying her spirits , replied , `` No , Bet , I am not afraid she will rise . 
`` Come , '' said Jane , impatiently rising , `` for mercy 's sake , let us go . '' 
She did not speak a word -- she fell upon his neck , and she clasped her arms round him ; they thought to cut them off , it was so hard to get them loose ; -- and when they took her from him , -LRB- and the maniac laid her hand on Jane 's head -RRB- she was all gone here . 
Bet told all these circumstances with an expression and action that showed she was living the scene over , while her mind dwelt on them . 
Jane was deeply interested ; and when Bet concluded , she said , `` Poor Lucy ! 
`` That 's right , child ; now we will go on -- but first let that tear-drop that glistens in the moonbeam , fall on the grave , it helps to keep the grass green -- and the dead like to be cried for ; '' she added mournfully . 
They now proceeded ; crazy Bet leading the way , with long and hasty strides , in a diagonal course still ascending the hill , till she plunged into a deep wood , so richly clothed with foliage as to be impervious to the moon-beams , and so choked with underbrush , that Jane found it very difficult to keep up with her pioneer . 
Crazy Bet had not spoken since they began their walk ; she now stopped , and turning abruptly to Jane , `` Do you know , '' said she , `` who are the worshippers that meet in this temple ? 
`` It is a beautiful spot , '' said Jane ; `` I should think all obedient spirits would worship in this sanctuary of nature . '' 
The maniac fell on her knees -- Jane knelt beside her : she had caught a spark of her companion 's enthusiasm . 
The singularity of her situation , the beauty of the night , the novelty of the place , on which the moon now riding high in the heavens poured a flood of silver light , all conspired to give a high tone to her feelings . 
It is not strange she should have thought she never heard any thing so sublime as the prayer of her crazed conductor -- who raised her arms and poured out her soul in passages of scripture the most sublime and striking , woven together by her own glowing language . 
She concluded suddenly , and springing on her feet , said to Jane , `` Now follow me : fear not , and falter not ; for you know what awaits the fearful and unbelieving . '' 
Jane assured her she had no fearbut that of being too late . 
They now turned into the wood by a narrow pathway , whose entrance laid under the shadow of two young beech trees : crazy Bet paused -- `` See ye these , child , '' said she , pointing to the trees , `` I knew two , who grew up thus on the same spot of earth ; -- so lovingly they grew , '' and she pointed to the interlacing of the branches -- `` young and beautiful ; but the axe was laid to the root of one -- and the other -LRB- and she pressed both her hands on her head , and screamed wildly -RRB- perished here . '' 
A burst of tears afforded her a sudden relief . 
murmured Jane . 
`` No , child ; when she weeps , then the band is loosened : for '' added she , drawing closer to Jane and whispering , `` they put an iron band around her head , and when she is in darkness , it presses till she thinks she is in the place of the Tormentor ; by the light of the moon it sits lightly . 
Jane began now to be alarmed at the excitement of Bet 's imagination ; and turning from her abruptly , entered the path , which , after they had proceeded a few yards , seemed to be leading them into a wild trackless region . 
she exclaimed . 
`` Yes , '' replied Jane ; `` but I had rather not go through them to-night . 
Jane had often heard of the pass called the ` Mountain-Caves , ' and she knew it had only been penetrated by a few rash youths of daring and adventurous spirit . 
She was appalled at the thought of entering it in the dead of night , and with such a conductor ; she paused , but she could see no way of escape , and summoning all her resolution to her aid , she followed Bet , who took no note of her scruples . 
The breadth of the passage , which was walled in by the perpendicular sides of the mountain , was not in any place more than twenty feet ; and sometimes so narrow , that Jane thought she might have extended her arms quite across it . 
But she had no leisure for critical accuracy ; her wayward guide pressed on , heedless of the difficulties of the way . 
She would pass between huge rocks , that had rolled so near together , as to leave but a very narrow passage between them ; then grasping the tangled roots that projected from the side of the mountain , and placing her feet in the fissures of the rocks , or in the little channels that had been worn by the continual dropping from the mountain rills , she would glide over swiftly and safely , as if she had been on the beaten highway . 
They were sometimes compelled , in the depths of the caverns , to prostrate themselves and creep through narrow apertures in the rocks , it was impossible to surmount ; and Jane felt that she was passing over immense masses of ice , the accumulation perhaps of a hundred winters . 
She was fleet and agile , and inspired with almost supernatural courage ; she , ` though a woman , naturally born to fears , ' followed on fearlessly ; till they came to an immense rock , whose conical and giant form rested on broken masses below , that on every side were propping this ` mighty monarch of the scene . ' 
For the first time , crazy Bet seemed to remember she had a companion , and to give a thought to her safety . 
`` Jane , '' said she , `` go carefully over this lower ledge , there is a narrow foot-hold there ; let not your foot slip on the wet leaves , or the soft moss . 
Jane obeyed her directions , and when , without much trouble , she had attained the further side of the rock , she looked back for crazy Bet , and saw her standing between heaven and earth on the very topmost point of the high rock : she leant on the branch of a tree she had broken off in her struggle to reach that lofty station . 
The moon had declined a little from the meridian ; her oblique rays did not penetrate the depths where Jane stood , but fell in their full brightness on the face of her votress above . 
Her head , as we have noticed , was fantastically dressed with vines and flowers ; her eyes were in a fine ` frenzy , rolling from earth to heaven , and heaven to earth ; ' she looked like the wild genius of the savage scene , and she seemed to breathe its spirit , when , after a moment 's silence , she sang , with a powerful and thrilling voice , which waked the sleeping echoes of the mountain , the following stanza : `` Tell them ` I AM , ' Jehovah said To Moses , while earth heard in dread , And smitten to the heart ; At once above , beneath , around , All nature , without voice or sound , Replied , Oh Lord , Thou art ! '' 
In vain Jane called upon her . 
In vain she entreated her to descend . 
She seemed wrapt in some heavenly vision ; and she stood mute again and motionless , till a bird , that had been scared from its nest in a cleft of the rock , by the wild sounds , fluttered over her and lit on the branch she still held in her hand . 
exclaimed she , `` messenger of love , and omen of mercy , I am content ; '' and she swiftly descended the sloping side of the rock , which she hardly seemed to touch . 
`` Now , '' said Jane , soothingly , `` you are rested , let us go on . '' 
At a short distance before her Jane perceived , glimmering through the trees , a faint light . 
said she , `` that must be John 's cottage . '' 
As they came nearer the dog barked ; and the old man , coming out of the door , signed to Jane to sit down on a log , which answered the purpose of a rude door-step ; and then speaking to crazy Bet , in a voice of authority , which , to Jane 's utter surprise , she meekly obeyed -- `` Take off , '' said he , `` you mad fool , those ginglements from your head , and stroke your hair back like a decent Christian woman ; get into the house , but mind you , say not a word to her . '' 
Crazy Bet entered the house , and John , turning to Jane , said , `` You are an angel of goodness for coming here to-night , though I am afraid it will do no good ; but since you are here , you shall see her . '' 
See her ! 
interrupted Jane . 
He then went on to state , that a few days before he had been searching the mountains for some medicinal roots , when his attention was suddenly arrested by a low moaning sound , and on going in the direction from whence it came , he found a very young looking creature , with a new-born infant , wrapped in a shawl , and lying in her arms . 
He spoke to the mother , but she made no reply , and seemed quite unconscious of every thing , till he attempted to take the child from her ; she then grasped it so firmly , that he found it difficult to remove it . 
After the old man had finished Mary 's story , or rather so much of it as he had been able to gather from her confessions , Jane asked him `` Why she had been sent for ? '' 
And then I thought of you , and I told her if there was any body could bring him to a sense of right it was you , and that at any rate you might think of some comfort for her ; for I told her every body in the village knew you for the wisest and discreetest , and gentlest . 
At first she relucted , and then the sight of her baby seemed to persuade her , and she bade me go , but she gave me a strict charge that no one should come with you ; for she said she wished her memory buried with her in the grave . 
When I left her to go to you , I hoped you might speak some words of comfort to her that would be better than medicine for her , and heal the body as well as the mind ; but when I came back , there was a dreadful change -- the poor little one had gone into a fit , and she would take it from my wife into her arms , and there it died more than an hour ago ; and she sits up in the bed holding it yet , and she has not spoken a word , nor turned her eyes from it ; her cheeks look as if there was a living fire consuming her . 
Jane followed John into his little habitation . 
She was sitting as John had described her , fixed as a statue . 
Her beautiful black glossy curls , which had been so often admired and envied , were in confusion , and clustered in rich masses over her temples and neck . 
A tear that had started from the fountain of feeling , now sealed for ever , hung on the dark rich eye-lash that fringed her downcast eye . 
Jane wondered that any thing so wretched could look so lovely . 
Crazy Bet was kneeling at the foot of the bed , and apparently absorbed in prayer , for her eyes were closed , and her lips moved , though they emitted no sound . 
Jane advanced towards the bed . 
Jane stooped , and laid her hand gently on Mary 's . 
She raised her eyes for the first time , and turned them on Jane with a look of earnest inquiry , and then shaking her head , she said in a low mournful voice -- `` No , no ; we can not be parted ; you mean to take her to heaven , and you say I am guilty , and must not go . 
exclaimed Jane in an agony , `` can nothing be done for her ? 
She attempted to take the child , and Mary relaxed her hold ; but as she did so , she uttered a faint scream -- became suddenly pale as ` monumental marble , ' -- and fell back on the pillow . 
Jane was the first to break silence -- `` Did she , '' she inquired of the old man , `` express any penitence -- any hope ? '' 
Jane felt the anxiety , so natural , to obtain some religious expression , that should indicate preparation in the mind of the departed . 
`` Surely , '' said she , `` it is never too late to repent -- to beg forgiveness . '' 
This child , '' he added , going to the bed , and laying his brown and shrivelled hand upon her fair young brow , now ` chill and changeless , ' `` this child was but sixteen , she told me so . 
`` Yes , '' said Jane , `` we do know , John , that all will be right . '' 
Jane had been so much absorbed in the mournful scene , that the necessity of her return before the breaking of day had not occurred to her mind , and would not , perhaps , if John had not , after a few moments pause , reminded her of it , by saying , `` I am sorry Miss Jane , you have had such a walk for nothing ; but , '' added he , `` to the wise nothing is vain , and you are of so teachable a make , that you may have learned some good lessons here ; you may learn , at least , that there is nothing to be much grieved for in this world but guilt ; and some people go through a long life without learning that . 
Jane looked for the last time on the beautiful form before her , and with the ingenuous and keen feeling of youth , wept aloud . 
Jane told the kind old man that she was now ready to go , and they left the hut together . 
He led her by a narrow foot path around the base of the mountain , till they came to a part of the way that was known to Jane . 
She then parted from her conductor , after inquiring of him if he could inter the bodies secretly ? 
He replied , that he could without much difficulty ; and he certainly should , for he had given his promise to the young creature , who seemed to dread nothing so much as a discovery which might lead to her old parents knowing her real fate . 
Anxious to reach home in time to avoid the necessity of any disclosures , Jane hastened forward , and arrived at her aunt 's before the east gave the slightest notice of the approach of day . 
She entered the house carefully , and turned into the parlour to look for some refreshment in an adjoining pantry . 
Jane had entered the parlour , and closed the door after her , before she perceived that she was not the only person in it ; but she started with alarm , which certainly was not confined to herself , when she saw standing at Mrs. Wilson 's desk , which was placed at one corner of the room , her son David , with his mother 's pocket-book in his hand , from which he was in the act of subtracting a precious roll of bank bills that had been deposited there the day before . 
Jane paused for a moment , and but for a moment , for as the truth flashed on her , she sprang forward , and seizing his arm , exclaimed , `` For heaven 's sake , David , put back that money ! 
He shook her off , and hastily stuffing the money in his pocket , said , that he must have it ; that his mother would not give him enough to save him from destruction ; that he had told her , ruin was hanging over his head ; that she had driven him to help himself ; and , `` as to sin , '' he added fiercely , `` I am in too deep already to be frightened by that thought . '' 
It occurred to Jane that he might have been driven to this mode of supplying himself , in order to relieve the extreme need of Mary Oakley ; and she told him , in a hurried manner , the events of the night . 
Hell has no place bad enough for me ; '' and then rousing himself , he said , with a deep tone , `` Jane Elton , I am a ruined , desperate man . 
`` But , '' said Jane , `` is there no other way , David ? 
I tell you , I am desperate , Jane , and care not for the consequences . 
But , '' he added , `` I will run no risk of discovery , '' and as he spoke , he drew a pistol from beneath his surtout , and putting the muzzle to his breast , said to Jane , `` give me your solemn promise , that you will never betray me , or I will put myself beyond the reach of human punishment . '' 
said Jane , `` I will promise any thing . 
My mother will suspect , but she will not dare to tell whom ; and your promise , Jane , makes me secure . '' 
Jane saw he was so determined , that any further interposition would be useless , and she hurried away to her own apartment , where she threw herself upon her bed , sorrowing for the crimes and miseries of others . 
Quite exhausted with the fatigues of the night , she soon fell asleep . 
She was too much distressed and terrified , to reflect upon the bad effects that might result from the exacted promise . 
She had , doubtless , been unnecessarily alarmed by David 's threat of self-slaughter ; for , confused and desperate as he was , he would hardly have proceeded to such an outrage ; and , besides , we have reason to believe the pistol was neither primed nor loaded ; but , that he had provided himself with it for emergencies which might occur in the desperate career in which he had engaged . 
Jane , exhausted by the agitations of the night , contrary to her usual custom , remained in bed much longer than the other members of the family , and did not awake from deep and unquiet slumbers , till the bell called the household to prayers . 
With this requisition Jane punctually and cheerfully complied , as she did with all those that did not require a violation of principle . 
But still she had often occasion secretly to lament , that where there was so much of the form of worship , there was so little of its spirit and truth ; and she sometimes felt an involuntary self reproach , that her body should be in the attitude of devotion , while her mind was following her aunt through earth , sea , and skies , or pausing to wonder at the remarkable inadaptation of her prayers to the condition and wants of humanity , in general , and especially to their particular modification in her own family . 
When Jane entered the room , she found her aunt had begun her devotions , which were evidently more confused than usual ; and when she said -LRB- her voice wrought up to its highest pitch -RRB- `` Lo ! 
lo , thine enemies shall perish ; all the workers of iniquity shall be scattered ; but my horn shalt thou exalt like the horn of a unicorn : I shall be anointed with fresh oil : mine eye also shall see my desire on my enemies , and my ears shall hear my desire of the wicked that rise up against me ; '' Jane perceived , from her unusual emotion , that she must allude to something that touched her own affairs , and she conjectured that she had already discovered the robbery . 
Her conjectures were strengthened when she observed , that , during the breakfast , her aunt seemed very much agitated ; but she was at a loss to account for the look she darted on her , when one of the children said , `` How your hair looks , Jane ; this is the first time I ever saw you come to breakfast without combing it . '' 
Jane replied , that she had over-slept . 
`` You look more , '' said Elvira , `` as if you had been watching all night , and crying too , I should imagine , from the redness of your eyes -- and now I think of it , '' she added , regardless of Jane 's embarrassment , `` I am sure I heard your door shut in the night , and you walking about your room . '' 
Jane was more confused by the expression of her aunt 's face , than by her cousin 's observations . 
What , thought she , can I have done to provoke her ? 
After breakfast , the family dispersed , as usual , excepting Mrs. Wilson , David , and Jane , who remained to assist her aunt in removing the breakfast apparatus . 
Mrs. Wilson , neither wishing nor able any longer to restrain her wrath , went up to her desk , and taking hold of a pocket handkerchief which appeared to lie on the top of it , but which , as she stretched it out , showed one end caught and fastened in the desk -- `` Do you know this handkerchief , Jane Elton ? '' 
`` Yes , ma'am , '' replied Jane , turning pale -- `` it is mine . '' 
She ventured , as she spoke , to look at David . 
Jane made no reply . 
She saw , that her aunt 's suspicions rested on her , and she perceived , at once , the cruel dilemma in which she had involved herself by her promise to David . 
`` Certainly I do , ma'am , '' replied Jane , firmly , for she had now recovered her self-possession . 
David , '' she continued to her son , who had thrown down the paper and walked to the window , where he stood with his back to his mother , affecting to whistle to a dog without ; `` David , I call you to witness this handkerchief , and what has now been said ; and remember , she does not deny that she left it here . '' 
He thought , too , that his mother knew , in her heart , who had taken the money ; that she would not dare to disclose her loss , and if she did , it would be time enough for him to interpose when Jane should be in danger of suffering otherwise than in the opinion of his mother , whose opinion , he thought , not worth caring for . 
Mrs. Wilson closed the door after Jane ; and seating herself , all unused as she was to the melting mood , gave way to a passion of tears and sobs , which were , as we think , a sincere tribute to the loss she had experienced . 
said Erskine to young Wilson ; for his impatience for an explanation became irrepressible , not on account of the old woman 's emotion , for she might have wept till she was like Niobe , all tears , without provoking an inquiry , but Jane 's distress had excited his anxiety . 
Mrs. Wilson thought he might intend the gathering storm should burst on Jane 's head ; or , perhaps , he would advise her to fly ; at any rate , it was not her cue , to lay a straw in his way at present . 
She even went herself and gave the request to Jane , adding to it a remark , that as she `` was not very fond of keeping out of Erskine 's way , she could hardly refuse to come when asked . '' 
`` I have no wish to refuse ; '' replied Jane , who , ashamed of having betrayed so much emotion , had quite recovered her self-possession , and stood calm in conscious integrity . 
-- `` But hear me , ma'am , '' said she to her aunt , who had turned and was leaving the room -- `` all connexion between us is dissolved for ever ; I shall not remain another night beneath a roof where I have received little kindness , and where I now suffer the imputation of a crime , of which I can not think you believe me guilty . '' 
Edward interrupted her -- `` I do not wish it , Jane ; I believe you are perfectly innocent of that and of every other crime ; I do not wish you even to deny it . 
`` Ah , '' replied Jane , with a sad smile , `` there are , and there ought to be , few believers in earthborn angels . 
She rose to leave the room . 
Erskine gently drew her back , and asked if it was possible she included him among those who could be base enough to distrust her ; and before she could reply he went on to a passionate declaration of his affections , followed by such promises of eternal truth , love , and fidelity , as are usual on such occasions . 
At another time , Jane would have paused to examine her heart , before she accepted the professions made by her lover , and she would have found no tenderness there that might not be controlled and subdued by reason . 
But now , driven out from her natural protectors by suspicion and malignant accusation , and touched by the confiding affection that refused to suspect her ; the generosity , the magnanimity that were presented in such striking contrast to the baseness of her relations -- she received Edward 's declarations with the most tender and ingenuous expressions of gratitude ; and Erskine did not doubt , nor did Jane at that moment , that this gratitude was firmly rooted in love . 
Edward , ardent and impetuous , proposed an immediate marriage : he argued , that it was the only , and would be an effectual , way of protecting her from the persecutions of her aunt . 
Jane replied , that she had very little reason to fear that her aunt would communicate to any other person her suspicions . 
`` She had a motive towards you , '' she added , `` that overcame her prudence . 
Edward entreated -- protested -- argued -- but all in vain ; he was obliged at length to resign his will to Jane 's decision . 
On this he insisted so earnestly , and offered for it so many good reasons , that Jane consented . 
She was surprised -- mortified -- and most of all , wrathful -- that her impotent victim , as she deemed Jane , should be rescued from her grasp . 
She began the most violent threats and reproaches ; Edward interrupted her by telling her that she dare not repeat the first , and from the last her niece would soon be for ever removed ; as he should require they should in future be perfect strangers . 
Edward left the room , saying , that he should send his servant to convey Jane 's baggage whereever she would order it to be sent . 
Jane went quietly to her own apartment , to make the necessary arrangements ; there she soon overheard the low growlings of Mrs. Wilson 's angriest voice , communicating , as she inferred from the loud responsive exclamations and whimpering , her engagement to Elvira . 
She was at a loss how to account for the appearance of Jane 's handkerchief ; but neither that , nor Jane 's subsequent emotion at the breakfast table , nor her refusal to make any explanation of the suspicious circumstances , enabled Mrs. Wilson to believe that Jane had borne any part in the dishonesty of the transaction . 
Still she could not restrain the whirlwind of her passion ; and it burst , as we have seen , upon Jane . 
She was at a loss to account for Jane 's refusal to vindicate herself . 
It was impossible for her to conceive of the reasons that controlled Jane , which would have been no more to Mrs. Wilson , than were to Sampson the new ropes he snapped asunder at the call of Delilah . 
She felt so fearful , at first , that any investigation would lead to the discovery of the real criminal , that she had not communicated the fact of the handkerchief to any one , even to Elvira , whose discretion , indeed , she never trusted ; but , after she found that Jane was in a dilemma , from which she would not extricate herself by any explanations , she thought herself the mistress of her niece 's fate ; and the moment she saw Erskine , she determined to extract good out of the evil that had come upon her , to dim the lustre of Jane 's good name , that ` more immediate jewel of her soul , ' and thus to secure for her daughter the contested prize . 
Her niece 's fortunes were suddenly placed beyond her control or reach ; and nothing remained of all her tyranny and plots , but the pitiful and malignant pleasure of believing , that Jane thought herself in some measure in her power , though she knew that she was not . 
After the confirmation of her conjecture at the shop , she saw that secrecy was absolutely necessary ; and she was too discreet to indulge herself with telling Elvira of any of the particulars , about which she had been so vociferous to the young lovers . 
Perhaps few ladies , old or young , were ever less encumbered with baggage than Jane Elton , and yet , so confused was she with the events of the night and morning , that the labour of packing up , which at another time she would have des patched in twenty minutes , seemed to have no more tendency to a termination than such labours usually have in dreams . 
In the midst of her perplexities one of the children entered and said Mr. Lloyd wished to speak to her . 
She was on the point of sending him an excuse , for she felt an involuntary disinclination to meet his penetrating eye at this moment , when recollecting how much she owed to his constant , tender friendship , she subdued her reluctance , and obeyed his summons . 
When she entered the room , `` I am come , '' said he , `` Jane , to ask thee to walk with me . 
Jane made no reply . 
He saw she was agitated , and leading her gently to a chair , said , `` I fear thou art not well , or , what is much worse , not happy . '' 
Jane would have replied , `` I am not ; '' but she checked the words , for she felt as if the sentiment they expressed , was a breach of fidelity to Erskine ; and instead of them she said , hesitatingly , `` I ought not to be perfectly happy till my best -LRB- I should say one of my best -RRB- friends knows and approves what I have done this morning . '' 
`` What hast thou done , Jane ? '' 
exclaimed Mr. Lloyd , anticipating from her extraordinary embarrassment and awkwardness the communication she was about to make ; `` hast thou engaged thyself to Erskine ? '' 
She faltered out , `` Yes . '' 
Jane was alarmed ; she could not account for his emotion ; she feared he had some ground for an ill opinion of Edward , that she was ignorant of . 
said she ; `` you think I have done wrong ? '' 
By a strong and sudden effort he recovered himself , and turning to Jane , he took her hand with a benignant expression -- `` My dear Jane , thy own heart must answer that question . 
Jane imagined that Mr. Lloyd felt a distrust of her motives . 
she replied , `` the integrity of my heart will fail to make me happy , if I have fallen under your suspicion . 
`` It is not being very unjust to him , or to any one , to think him unworthy of thee , Jane . 
Jane began a reply , but hesitated , and faltered out something of its being impossible for her to display to Mr. Lloyd , Erskine 's generosity in the light she saw it . 
`` Dost thou mean , Jane , that the light of truth is less favourable to him than the light of imagination ? '' 
`` No , '' answered Jane , `` such virtues as Edward 's shine with a light of their own ; imagination can not enhance their value . '' 
Well , my dear Jane , '' he continued , after a few moments pause , `` I will believe without seeing . 
Jane explained , as concisely as possible , to Mr. Lloyd , her plans for the present , and then took advantage of this opportunity to retreat to her own apartment , where she had no sooner entered than she gave way to a flood of tears , more bitter than any her aunt 's injustice had cost her . 
She had , previous to her interview with Mr. Lloyd , determined not to disclose to him , or Mary Hull , the disagreeable affair of the robbery . 
Mr. Lloyd , after remaining for a few moments in the posture Jane had left him , returned to his own home , abstracted and sad . 
`` I knew , '' thought he , `` she was fallible , and why should I be surprised at her failure ? 
It can not be Erskine , but the creature of her imagination , that she loves . 
She is too young to possess the Ithuriel touch that dissolves false appearances : she could not detect , under so specious a garb , the vanity and selfishness that counterfeit manly pride and benevolence . 
If he were but worthy of her , I should be perfectly happy . '' 
He had loved Jane first as a child , and then as a sister ; and of late he had thought if he could love another woman , as a wife , it would be Jane Elton . 
He had formed no project for himself in relation to Jane ; yet he would have felt disappointment at her appropriation to any other person , though , certainly , not the sorrow which her engagement to Erskine occasioned him . 
In the present case , he resolved still to watch over Jane ; to win the friendship of Erskine , to endeavour to rectify his principles , to exert over him an insensible influence , and , if possible , to render him more worthy of his enviable destiny . 
In the course of the day , Mary Hull heard the rumours that had already spread through the village , of Jane 's removal to Mrs. Harvey 's , and her engagement . 
She ran to the library door , and in the fulness of her heart , forgetful of the decorum of knocking , she entered and found Mr. Lloyd sitting with his little girl on his knee . 
Mr. Lloyd coldly replied , that he knew it already ; and Mary left the room , a little hurt that he had not condescended to tell her , and wondering what made him so indifferent , and then wondering whether it was indifference ; but as she could not relieve her mind , she resolved to go immediately to Jane , with whom the habits of their early lives , and her continued kindness , had given and established the right of free intercourse . 
She found Jane alone , and not looking as happy as she expected . 
`` You have come to give me joy , Mary , '' she said , smiling mournfully as she extended her hand to her friend . 
Jane made no explanation , nor reply , and after a few moments consideration Mary proceeded -- `` To be sure , I could wish Erskine was more like Mr. Lloyd ; but then he is six or eight years younger than Mr. Lloyd , and in that time , with your tutoring , you may make him a good deal like Mr. Lloyd -LRB- Mr. Lloyd was Mary 's beau-ideal of a man -RRB- ; that is , if your endeavours are blessed . 
It is true , I always thought you would not marry any man that was not religious ; not but what 't is allowable , for even professors do it ; but then , Jane , you are more particular and consistent than a great many professors ; and , I know , you think there is nothing binds hearts together like religion -- that bond endures where there is neither marrying nor giving in marriage . '' 
Poor Jane had listened to Mary 's pros and cons with considerable calmness ; but now she laid her head in her friend 's lap , and gave vent to the feelings , she had been all day arguing down , by a flood of tears . 
my dear Jane , is it therethe shoe pinches ? 
I often think to myself , Jane , that your life , and Mr. Lloyd 's too , are better than preaching . 
Do n't take on so , my child , '' she continued , soothingly ; `` you have Scripture for you ; for the Bible says , ` the believing wife may sanctify the unbelieving husband ; ' and that must mean that her counsel and example shall win him back to the right way , and persuade him to walk in the paths of holiness . 
`` Sukey has too much reason , '' replied Jane . 
` Ought , ' thought Mary , ` she may be contented , and resigned , and even cheerful , because she ought -- but happiness is not duty-work . ' 
However , she had discretion enough to suppress her homely metaphysics ; and patting Jane 's head affectionately , she replied , `` Yes , my child , and if you wish it , I will set these tears down for tears of joy , not sorrow . '' 
Jane smiled at her friend 's unwonted sophistry , and they parted : Mary , confirmed in a favourite notion , that every allotment of Providence is designed as a trial for the character ; that all will finally work together for good ; and that Jane was going on in the path to perfection , which , though no methodist , she was not -LRB- in her partial friend 's opinion , -RRB- far from attaining . 
Jane was very much relieved by Mary 's wise suggestions and sincere sympathy . 
Erskine was in too good humour with himself , and with Jane , to find fault with any thing : yet he certainly was a little disappointed , that in spite of his earnest persuasions to the contrary , she firmly persisted in the plan of the school ; and we fear he was surprised , perhaps slightly mortified , that she showed no more joy at having secured a station , to which he knew so many had aspired . 
Janeentered upon the duties of her new vocation with more energy and interest than could have been reasonably expected from a young lady who had so recently entered into an engagement , and one which opened upon her the most flattering prospects . 
Our fair young readers -LRB- if any of that class condescend to read this unromantic tale -RRB- will smile at the idea that Jane had any further occasion for the virtues of adversity ; but she was far from being happy ; she had not that firm confidence in the character of her lover that could alone have inspired the joy of hope , and secured a quiet spirit . 
Since her engagement , and even before , and ever since she had been interested in Erskine , she had not dared to sound the depths of her heart . 
Though quite a novice in the experience of love , she would have been able to detect its subtleties ; she would have been able to ascertain the nature , and amount of her affection for Erskine , had she not been driven by his apparent magnanimity , and the oppression of her relations , to a sudden decision . 
Week after week passed away , and there seemed to be no prospect that any thing would occur to free Jane from the very unpleasant situation in which her aunt 's accusations had placed her . 
Erskine became restless and impatient , derided all Jane 's arguments in favour of delaying their marriage , and finally affected to distrust her affection for him . 
If the undefined , and undefinable sentiment which was compounded in Jane 's heart of youthful preference and gratitude , was not love , Jane believed it was , and she at last yielded a reluctant consent , that the marriage should take place at the end of three months , even though nothing should occur to release her from her aunt 's power . 
It was a few days after this promise had been given , that as she was one day returning from her school , Erskine jointed her . 
Jane blushed , for she thought he might have guessed the reason . 
`` I am glad of it , '' she replied , `` for he seems to have withdrawn his friendship from me , and you are the only person , Edward , to whom I should be resigned to have it transferred . '' 
`` Ah , Jane ! 
To confess the truth to you , Jane , I have always had an aversion to Quakers ; they are a very hypocritical sect , depend upon it ; pretending , sly , cheating rogues . '' 
`` That 's a harsh judgment , '' replied Jane , with some warmth , `` and a prejudice , I think ; is not Mr. Lloyd the only Quaker you know ? '' 
`` I think your father was in fault , '' replied Jane , `` so carelessly to implant a prejudice , which , as it seems to have had very slight ground , I trust has not taken such deep root that it can not be easily eradicated . '' 
You may depend upon it , Jane , the Quakers are a jesuitical people . '' 
inquired Jane . 
Jane did not join in his laugh ; but replied , `` There is a book , Edward , that contains the creed of the Quakers ; a creed to which they have never presumed to add any thing , nor have they taken any thing from it ; the only creed to which they think it right to require the assent of man , and from which no rational man can dissent -- that book is the Bible!and , '' she continued , earnestly , `` their faith in this creed is shown by their works . 
There was a mingled expression of archness and admiration in Edward 's smile as he replied , `` My dear Jane , you are almost fit to speak in meeting . 
I think friendship is a stronger feeling in your heart than love , Jane , '' he continued , with a penetrating look that certainly did not abate the carnation of her cheek . 
The gentleness of Jane 's manner , and the tenderness of her voice , soothed her lover ; and he replied , `` Forgive me , dear Jane , a little jealousy ; you know jealousy argues love . 
Do you believe , Jane , that any man would be willing to transfer to another all the merit and praise of a scheme , which , if it succeeds , will be a most important benefit to the community ; will be felt , and noticed , and applauded by every body ? 
`` Is it fair , '' replied Jane , `` to condemn a whole class because some of its members are faithless and disloyal ? 
I allow , '' continued Jane , `` there are few , very few , who are perfectly disinterested ; but every Christian , in proportion to his fidelity to the teachings and example of his Master , will be moved and governed by this principle . '' 
Perhaps Edward felt a passing conviction of the truth of Jane 's assertions ; at any rate , he made no reply , and afterwards he shunned the subject ; and even Jane seemed to shrink from it as one upon which they had no common feeling . 
The day before entering on the duties of her second school-term , Jane determined to indulge herself in a solitary walk to the cottage of old John of the Mountain . 
She had purchased some comforts for the old people , with a part of her small earnings , and she knew if she carried them herself she should double their value . 
She found the way without difficulty , for her night-walk had indelibly impressed it on her memory . 
On her approach to the cottage , and as she emerged from the wood , she perceived just on its verge a slight rising in the form of a grave ; a wild rose-bush grew beside it . 
Jane paused for a moment , and plucking one of the flowers , she said , ` fragrant and transient , thou art a fit emblem of the blasted flower below ! ' 
As she turned from the grave , she perceived that a magical change had been wrought upon John 's hut . 
Instead of a scarcely habitable dwelling , of decayed logs , filled in with mud , she saw a neat little framed house , with a fence around it , and a small garden annexed to it , enclosed by the logs of the former building . 
Jane hastened forward , and entered the cottage with the light step of one who goes on an errand of kindness . 
`` Who would have thought , '' said the good dame , as she dusted a chair and offered it to Jane , `` of your coming all this way to see whether we were above ground yet ? '' 
`` I could not forget you , my good friends , '' replied Jane , `` though John does not come any more to put me in mind of you . '' 
inquired Jane . 
Jane assured John that she had never heard a word of it ; that she had a little school to take care of ; and that she saw very few persons , and heard little village news , even when it was so important as his law-suit . 
`` Can it be possible , '' interrupted Jane , `` that for so slight a cause the Woodhulls could do you such an injury ? '' 
exclaimed Jane . 
Jane had turned away her head ; she now assured John , she was listening to every word he said , and begged him to go on . 
`` Mr. Lloyd , '' she replied , in a scarcely audible voice . 
Jane was obliged to own she did not feel well ; but after drinking some water , she made an effort to compose herself , and asked the old man , `` What reason he had to think the Woodhulls and Erskine were intimate friends ? '' 
and poor Jane clasped her hands together , and looked at him with an expression of such wretchedness , that the old man turned his eyes from her to his wife and back again to Jane , as if he would , but dared not , inquire the reason of her emotion . 
Jane had risen also , and with a trembling hand was tying on her hat . 
`` And the Lord help thee , child , '' he continued , turning again towards her , `` and keep thee from every snare . 
Jane felt humbled by the old man 's sympathy ; and yet it was too sincere , too kindly felt , to be repressed . 
She was hastening away , when Sarah said , `` You have forgotten your bundle , Miss. '' `` It is for you , my good friend , '' she replied ; and , without awaiting their thanks , she bade them farewell , and was soon out of sight of the old man , whose eye followed her quick footsteps till she was hid by the adjoining wood . 
Thus , after all her deliberations , Jane re-entered her home , without having come to any decision . 
As Jane entered Mrs. Harvey 's door she met her kind hostess just returning from a walk , her face flushed with recent pleasure . 
she exclaimed . 
She added , playfully , `` if our cousin Elvira had been out in such a shower of gold , we should have been favoured with sweet smiles and sweet talk for one year at least . 
Jane would gladly have followed her , but she sat still , after hastily throwing aside her hat , and seizing the first book that she could lay her hands upon , to shelter her embarrassment . 
She sat with her back to the door . 
Edward entered , and walking up to her , looked over her shoulder as if to see what book had so riveted her attention . 
Jane rose to leave him , for now , she thought , was not the time to come to an explanation ; but Erskine was not in a humour to be opposed in any thing . 
He placed his back against the door , and said , `` No , Jane , you shall not leave me now . 
Jane trembled excessively . 
Erskine had touched the ` electric chain ; ' she sunk into a chair , and burst into tears . 
Jane 's indignation was roused by this strange attack ; and resuming her composure , she said , `` If you mean that I shall understand you , you must explain yourself , for I am ignorant and innocent of any thing you may suspect me of . '' 
replied Erskine , `` I believe you , Jane ; you know in the worst of times I have believed you ; and it was natural to be offended that you should distrust me . 
`` Perhaps , '' said Jane gravely , `` I hold a more impartial balance than you expect . '' 
`` Then you do not love me , Jane , for love is , and ought to be , blind ; but I am willing to make the trial , I will never have it repeated to me , that ` if you knew all , you would withdraw your affections from me . ' 
I know you are a little puritanical ; but that is natural to one who has had so much to make her miserable : the unhappy are apt to affect religion . 
Edward still rattled on , and seemed a little to dread making the promised communication ; but at last , inferring from Jane 's seriousness that she was anxious , and impatient himself to have it over , he went on to tell her -- that from the beginning of their engagement Mr. Lloyd had undertaken the surveillanceof his morals ; that if he had not been fortified by his antipathy to Quakers , he should have surrendered his confidence to him . 
If Jane was capable of a fair judgment , she would allow that it was so . '' 
Jane mildly replied , that she could only judge from the facts ; as yet she had heard nothing but accusations . 
`` But my sweet judge , you do not look propitious , '' Erskine continued after this misty preamble , from which Jane could gather nothing but that his prejudices and pride had thrown a dark shadow over all the virtues of Mr. Lloyd . 
And now , Jane , I beseech you for once to forget that Mr. Lloyd is your excellent friend ; a man who bestowed some trifling favours on your childhood , and remember the rights of one to whom you at least owe your love -- though he would neither accept that , nor your gratitude , as a debt . '' 
Jane assured him she was ready to hear any thing and every thing impartially that he would tell her . 
He replied , that he detested stoical impartiality ; that he wished her to enter into his loves and his hates , without expecting a reason in their madness . 
exclaimed Jane , `` was this your return for his friendly warning ? '' 
`` Hear me through , Jane , before you condemn me . 
Would you have had me borne this , Jane ? 
asked Jane . 
`` Then , '' said Jane , rising , `` it is as unnecessary as painful for me to hear the rest . '' 
Do not be shocked , my dear Jane ; do not , for your own sake , make mountains of mole-hills , when I tell you , that the young men of the village instituted a club , three or four months since , who meet once a week socially , perhaps a little oftener , when we are all about home : and '' -- he hesitated a moment , as one will when he comes to a ditch and is uncertain whether to spring over , to retreat , or to find some other way ; but he had too much pride to conceal the fact , and though he feared a little to announce it , yet he was determined to justify it . 
Jane was still mute , and he went on -- `` We play cards ; sometimes we have played later and higher perhaps than we should if we had all been in the leading-strings of prudence ; all been bred quakers . 
As I said , last evening unfortunately -- '' `` Tell me nothing more , Mr. Erskine ; I have heard enough , '' interrupted Jane . 
`` I have no wish to hear any thing further , '' replied Jane . 
Edward would have interrupted her , but she begged him to hear her , with a dignified composure , that convinced him this was no sudden burst of resentment , no girlish pique that he might sooth with flattery and professions . 
-- believe every thing , Jane . 
`` Jane , you are rash ; you are giving up independence -- protection . 
`` No , '' replied Jane ; `` but I have the defence of innocence , and I do not fear her . 
she continued , rising , `` examine your heart as I have examined mine , and you will find the tie is dissolved that bound us ; there can be no enduring love without sympathy ; our feelings , our pursuits , our plans , our inclinations , are all diverse . '' 
`` You are unkind , ungrateful , Jane . '' 
Erskine imagined he perceived some relenting in the faltering of her voice , and he said , `` Do not be implacable , Jane ; you are too young , too beautiful , to treat the follies of youth as if they were incurable ; give me a few months probation , I will do any thing you require ; abandon the club , give up my friends . '' 
Jane paused for a moment , but there was no wavering in her resolution -- `` No , Mr. Erskine ; we must part now ; if I loved you , I could not resist the pleadings of my heart . '' 
Erskine entreated -- promised every thing ; till convinced that Jane did not deceive him or herself , his vanity and pride , mortified and wounded , came to his relief , and changed his entreaties to sarcasms . 
He said the rigour that would immolate every human feeling , would fit her to be the Elect Lady of a Shaker society ; he assured her that he would emulate her stoicism . 
`` I am no stoic , '' replied Jane ; and the tears gushed from her eyes . 
Edward , '' she continued , with a trembling voice , `` there is one subject , and that nearest to my heart , on which I discovered soon after our engagement we were at utter variance . 
Jane laid her hand on his arm , `` Yes , it is time , '' she said , `` that we should part ; but not in anger . 
He pressed the hand Jane had given him , to his lips fervently , `` Oh , Jane , '' he said , `` you are an angel ; forget my follies , and think of me with kindness . '' 
`` I shall remember nothing of the past , '' she said , with a look that had ` less of earth in it than heaven , ' `` but your goodness to me -- God bless you , Edward ; God bless you , '' she repeated , and they separated -- for ever ! 
For a few hours Erskine thought only of the irreparable loss of Jane 's affections . 
Every pure , every virtuous feeling he possessed , joined in a clamorous tribute to her excellence , and in a sentence of self-condemnation that could not be silenced . 
After the events of the morning , Mr. Lloyd felt more anxiety than ever on Jane Elton 's account ; and never weary in well-doing , he determined to make one more effort to rescue Erskine from the pernicious society and influence of the Woodhulls . 
He trusted himself to speak of Jane , of her innocence , her purity , her trustful affection , her solitariness , her dependance . 
At any other time , we can not think Edward would have been unmoved by the eloquence of his appeal ; but now he was exasperated by the mortifications of the morning ; and when Mr. Lloyd said , `` Erskine , if Jane Elton knew all , would she not withdraw her affections from thee ? '' 
he replied , angrily , `` She shall know all . 
I have a right to expect she will overlook a few foibles ; such as belong to every man of spirit . 
She owes me , at least , so much indulgence . 
She is bound to me by ties that can not be broken -- that she certainly can not break . '' 
Jane would have communicated to Mary , her kind , constant friend Mary Hull , the issue of her engagement ; but it so happened , that she was at this time absent on a visit to her blind sister . 
She felt it to be just , that she should acquaint Mr. Lloyd with the result of an affair , in which he had manifested so benevolent and vigilant a care for her happiness . 
Perhaps she felt a natural wish , that he should know his confidence in her had not been misplaced . 
She could not speak to him on the subject , for their intercourse had been suspended of late ; and besides , she was habitually reserved about speaking of herself . 
She sat down to address a note to him ; and , after writing a dozen , each of which offended her in some point -- either betrayed a want of delicacy towards Erskine , or a sentiment of self-complacency -- either expressed too much , or too little -- she threw them all into the fire , and determined to leave the communication to accident . 
A fewdays after Erskine 's departure , Mrs. Harvey entered Jane 's room hastily , -- `` Our village , '' she exclaimed , `` is the most extraordinary place in the world ; wonders cease to be wonderful among us . '' 
inquired Jane , `` I know not from your face whether to expect good or evil . '' 
You know , '' she continued , `` that we saw an account in the New-York paper of last week , of a robbery committed on the mail-stage : the robbers have been detected and taken , and Wilson , who it seems had assumed a feigned name , is among them . '' 
said Jane , in a tone of sorrow and alarm . 
Mr. Lloyd has been here , to request that you , dear Jane , will go to your aunt , and say to her that he is ready to render her any services in his power . 
said Jane , instinctively transfusing her own feelings into their bosoms . 
`` And this , '' exclaimed Jane , `` is the sick physician we heard was at my aunt 's ? '' 
`` Is it possible , '' asked Jane , `` that aunt Wilson should be imposed on for so long a time ? 
`` Aunt has probably sent for me , '' replied Jane ; and she hastened to open the door for her cousin , who entered evidently in a flutter . 
`` I was just going to your mother 's , '' said Jane . 
Come into your room , '' and she hastened forward to Jane 's apartment . 
Mrs. Harvey left the apartment , and Elvira turned to Jane , and was beginning with great eagerness to say something , but she paused -- unpinned her shawl , took it off , and then put it on again -- and then asked Jane , if she had heard from Erskine ; and , without waiting a reply , which did not seem to be very ready , she continued , `` How glad I was he fought that duel ; it was so spirited . 
Jane stared at her cousin , as if she had been smitten with distraction . 
`` Elvira , '' she said , with more displeasure than was often extorted from her , `` you are an incurable trifler ! 
my spirits run away with me , dear Jane ; but I do feel very miserable , '' she replied , affecting to wipe away the tears from her dry eyes . 
Oh , Jane ! 
he is the sweetest creature -- the most interesting being '' -- `` Elvira , '' replied Jane , coldly , `` I do not like to reproach you in your present affliction ; but you strangely forget all that is due to your sex , by keeping up such an intercourse with a stranger -- by ranting in this way about a wandering dancing-master -- a foreigner . '' 
Now Jane , darling , do n't be angry with me . 
`` Oh , Jane ! 
`` That 's spoken like yourself , dear , blessed Jane , '' said Elvira , brightening ; `` now I am sure you will not refuse me -- you are always so generous and kind . '' 
`` I have small means to be generous , '' replied Jane ; `` but let me know , at once , what it is you want , for I am in haste to go to your mother . '' 
`` You are a darling , Jane -- you always was . '' 
inquired Jane again , aware that Elvira 's endearments were always to be interpreted as a prelude to the asking of a favour . 
`` I wish , dear Jane , '' she replied , summoning all her resolution to her aid ; `` I wish you to lend me twenty dollars . 
asked Jane , rising and going to her bureau . 
replied Elvira , watching Jane 's movements , `` you are a dear soul . 
There seemed to be something in Elvira 's eagerness to serve her brother , and in her newly awakened tenderness for him , that excited Jane 's suspicions ; for she paused in the midst of counting the money , turned round , and fixed a penetrating look upon her cousin . 
Elvira , without appearing to notice any thing peculiar in her expression , said , -LRB- advancing towards her , -RRB- `` Do be quick , dear Jane ; it is a great way to Mr. Harris 's ; I am afraid I shall be late . '' 
Jane had finished counting the money . 
`` There are five dollars more , '' she continued , looking at a single bill Jane had laid aside ; `` let me have that too , dear ; it will not be too much for David . '' 
`` I can not , '' replied Jane ; `` that is all I have in the world , and that I owe to Mrs. Harvey . '' 
`` La , Jane ! 
`` No , '' said Jane , disgusted with Elvira 's importunity and levity , and replacing the note in her drawer ; `` I have given you all I possess in the world , and you must be contented with it . '' 
She hastily kissed Jane ; and after saying , `` Good bye , my dear , go to mother 's , and stay till I come , '' she flew out of the house , exulting that her false pretences had won so much from her cousin . 
After Elvira 's departure , with all the profits of her little school , Jane did not delay another moment to go to her aunt 's , in order to communicate to her Mr. Lloyd 's kind offer of assistance , and to extend to her any aid or consolation in her own power . 
She found Mrs. Wilson alone , but not in a frame of mind that indicated any just feelings . 
She received her niece coldly . 
After a silence of a few moments , which Jane wished but knew not how to break , she inquired of Mrs. Wilson , whether she had any more information respecting David than was public ? 
Jane asked if the letters expressed any doubt that David would be convicted ? 
`` Do you know , '' inquired Jane , `` the names of the eminent lawyers in Philadelphia ? 
`` And can you , aunt , '' said Jane , `` acquiesce in your son 's being cut off in the spring of life , without an effort to save him -- without an effort to procure him a space for repentance and reformation ? '' 
`` Do not presume , Jane Elton , '' replied Mrs. Wilson , `` to instruct me in my duties . 
`` Yes , '' replied Jane ; `` and there have been many who have thus repented and rejoiced , and then been reprieved ; and have they then shown the only unquestionable proof of genuine penitence -- a renewed spirit ? 
`` Then , '' replied Jane , `` there is more hope of a harvest from a hard bound , neglected field , than from that which the owner has carefully ploughed and sowed , and prepared for the sun and the rains of heaven . '' 
Jane made no reply ; but she raised her hands and eyes as if she deprecated so impious a doctrine , and Mrs. Wilson went on : `` Do not think my children are worse than others ; you , Jane , are as much a child of wrath , and so is every son and daughter of Adam , as he is -- all totally depraved -- totally corrupt . 
You may have been under more restraint , and not acted out yours sins ; but no thanks to you ; '' and she continued , fixing her large gray eyes stedfastly on Jane , `` there are beside my son who would not seembetter , if they had not friends to keep their secrets for them . '' 
Jane did not condescend to notice the insinuation ; she felt too sincere a pity for the miserable self-deluded woman ; but , still anxious that some effort should be made for David , she said to Mrs. Wilson , `` Is there , then , nothing to be done for your unhappy son ? '' 
exclaimed Jane , interrupting and advancing towards her , `` do not -- do not , for your soul 's sake , indulge any longer this horrible delusion . 
You have more children , '' she continued , falling on her knees , and taking one of her aunt 's hands in both hers , and looking like a rebuking messenger from Heaven , `` be pitiful to them ; be merciful to your own soul . 
She sat as motionless as a statue ; and Jane went on with the courage of an Apostle to depicture , in their true colours , her character and conduct . 
She made her realize , for a few moments at least , the peril of her soul . 
She made her feel , that her sound faith , her prayers , her pretences , her meeting-goings , were nothing -- far worse than nothing in his sight , who can not be deceived by the daring hypocrisies , the self-delusions , the refuges of lies , of his creatures . 
She described the spiritual disciple of Jesus ; and then presented to Mrs. Wilson so true an image of her selfishness , her pride , her domestic tyranny , and her love of money , that she could not but see that it was her very self . 
There was that in Jane 's looks , and voice , and words , that was not to be resisted by the wretched woman ; and like the guilty king , when he saw the record on the wall , her `` countenance was changed , her thoughts were troubled , and her knees smote one against the other . '' 
Jane rose , embarrassed for her aunt and herself , and walked to the window . 
inquired Jane , eager to allay the storm she had raised . 
Jane flew to her assistance , spoke to her , entreated her to answer , bathed her temples and her hands -- but all without effect . 
she exclaimed , terrified and dismayed , `` I have killed her . '' 
Jane called assistants , and they removed her to her own room , and placed her on her bed . 
`` See , '' whispered Mr. Lloyd to Jane , after a few moments , `` she is becoming composed already ; leave her for a little time with this domestic -- I have much to say to thee . '' 
Jane followed him to the parlour . 
He took both her hands , and said , his face radiant with joy , `` Jane , many daughters have done virtuously , but thou excellest them all . 
Poor Jane tried to stammer out an apology for her reserve , but Mr. Lloyd interrupted her by saying playfully , `` I understand it all ; I am too old , too rigid , too -- quakerish , to be a young lady 's confidant . '' 
`` Oh , say not so , '' exclaimed Jane , gathering courage from his kindness ; `` you have been my benefactor , my guardian , my kindest friend ; forgive my silence -- I fell it all -- I have always felt it ; perhaps most , when I seemed most insensible , most reckless . 
What sayest thou Jane , to another walk to old John 's , with as strange , and a more welcome guide , than your fitful night wanderer ? 
The sailor gave her a truly professional , and most unghostly , smack , and replied between crying and laughing , `` I am no ghost , Mary , as you may see ; but excuse me , Mary , -LRB- for Mary had stepped back , a little embarrassed by the involuntary freedom of her friend -RRB- I was so glad , I could not help it . 
exclaimed Jane , brushing away the tears of sympathy and joy that Mr. Lloyd 's narrative had brought to her eyes , `` and John , and old Sarah . 
`` Ah , Jane , '' replied Mr. Lloyd , `` there are realities in the kind dispositions of Providence more blessed than a poet can dream of ; and there are virtues in real life , '' he continued , smiling , `` that might lend a persuasive grace to the page of a moralist , it is of those I must now speak . '' 
`` Not now , '' said Jane , hastily rising , `` I must go to my aunt . '' 
It was a remarkable proof of Mr. Lloyd 's habitual grace , that he did not forget , at this moment , that Jane could not work miracles without supernatural assistance . 
Jane returned to her aunt 's apartment , and found her in a sullen stupor . 
She did not seem to notice ; at any rate , she made no reply to Jane 's kind inquiries , and she , after drawing the curtains and dismissing the attendant , sat down to the perusal of the letters Mr. Lloyd had given to her . 
The first she read was from Erskine to Mr. Lloyd , and as it was not long , and was rather characteristic , we shall take the liberty to transcribe it for the benefit of our readers . 
`` And is this the man , '' thought Jane , as she folded the letter , `` that I have loved -- that I fancied loved me ? '' 
-- and her heart rose in devout thankfulness for the escape she had made from an utter wreck of her happiness . 
She next read Wilson 's letter to Mr. Lloyd . 
He stated , and we believe with sincerity , that he had intended , if it ever became necessary , to assert Jane 's innocence ; but that , as long as no one believed her guilty , he had thought it fair to slip his neck out of the yoke ; and now , that every body might know how good she was , he wished Mr. Lloyd to make known all the particulars of the transaction . 
He then went on to detaiil as much as he knew of her visit to the mountain , which had led to her subsequent involvement . 
His wish to exculpate Jane had arisen from a deep feeling of her excellence , and seemed to be the last ray of just or kindly feeling that his dark , guilty spirit emitted . 
Jane had scarcely finished reading the letters , when her attention was called to her aunt , who had been thrown into a state of agitation almost amounting to frenzy , by the perusal of her son 's farewell letter to herself , which Mr. Lloyd had placed on the pillow beside her , believing that it merely contained such account of David 's escape and plans , as would have a tendency to allay the anguish of her mind , which he still supposed arose solely from her apprehensions for her son 's life . 
I might have believed it , if I had seen more like Jane Elton -- whom you have trodden on , wrongfully accused , when you knewher innocent . 
I could do nothing to save my own soul ; and according to your own doctrine , I stand now a better chance than my moral cousin , Jane . 
Jane , fearful that the violence of her aunt 's passion would over destroy her reason , sought only , for the remainder of the day and the following night , to sooth and quiet her . 
She remained by her bedside , and silently watched , and prayed . 
She was never known afterwards to allude to its contents , nor to her conversation with Jane . 
Jane faithfully attended her through her last illness , and most kindly ministered to the diseases of her body . 
Her mind no human comfort could reach ; no earthly skill touch its secret springs . 
The disease was attended with delirium ; and she had no rational communication with any one from the beginning of her illness . 
This Jane afterwards sincerely deplored to Mr. Lloyd , who replied , `` I would not sit like the Egyptians in judgment on the dead . 
Thy aunt has gone with her record to Him who alone knows the secrets of the heart , and therefore is alone qualified to judge His creatures ; but for our own benefit , Jane , and for the sake of those whose probation is not past , let us ever remember the wise saying of William Penn , ` a man can not be the better for that religion for which his neighbour is the worse . ' 
`` Then you believe , '' replied Jane , `` that my unhappy aunt deceived herself by her clamorous profession ? '' 
After the dissolution of her engagement with Erskine , Jane continued her humble vocation of school-mistress for some months . 
Jane 's care of his child furnished him occasion , and excuse when he needed it , for frequent intercourse with her ; and , in this intercourse , there were none of those mysterious embarrassments -LRB- mysterious , because inexplicable to all but the parties -RRB- that so often check the progress of affection . 
Jane , released from the thraldom in which she had been bound to Erskine , was as happy as a redeemed captive . 
Her tastes and her views were similar to Mr. Lloyd 's , and she found in his society a delightful exchange and a rich compensation for the solitude to which her mind and affections had been condemned . 
We are ignorant , perhaps Jane was , of the precise moment when gratitude melted into love , and friendship resigned the reigns to his more absolute dominion . 
But it was not long after this , nor quite ` a year and a day ' -LRB- the period of mourning usually allotted to a faithful husband -RRB- after her separation from Erskine , that , as she was sitting with Mrs. Harvey in her little parlour , Mr. Lloyd entered with his child . 
She kissed the picture , and after a moment 's pause , added , `` Jane looks like mother , all but the cap ; dost not thee think , father , Jane would look pretty in a quaker cap ? '' 
Rebecca 's eyes followed the direction of her father 's : `` Oh , Jane ! '' 
The child 's observation of her treacherous cheek had certainly no tendency to lessen poor Jane 's colour . 
She would have been glad to hide her face any where , but it was broad daylight , and there was now no escape from the declaration which had been hovering on Mr. Lloyd 's lips for some weeks , and which was now made in spite of Rebecca 's presence . 
It can not be denied , in deference to the opinion of some very fastidious ladies , that Jane was prepared for it ; for though the marks of love are not quite as obvious , as the lively Rosalind describes them , yet we believe that except in the case of very wary lovers -- cautious veterans -- they are first observed by the objects of the passion . 
Her father had interpreted his conversation with Jane to his child , and had succeeded in rendering the object and the result of it level to her comprehension , and she had lavished her joy in loud exclamations and tender caresses ; till finding she was no longer noticed , she had withdrawn to a window , and was amusing herself with gazing at the passengers in the street , when she suddenly turned to Jane , and raising the window at the same moment , she said , `` Oh , there goes Mary to lecture , may I call her and tell her ? '' 
At this moment the sweet child might have asked any thing without the chance of a refusal , and a ready assent was no sooner granted , than she screamed and beckoned to Mary , who immediately obeyed her summons . 
Mary , Jane Elton is coming to live with us all the days of her life , and is going to be my own mother . '' 
Mary looked to Mr. Lloyd , and then to Jane , and read in their faces the confirmation of the happy tidings ; and to Rebecca 's utter amazement , the tears streamed from her eyes . 
But Mr. Lloyd and Jane knew how to understand this expression of her feelings ; they advanced to her and gave her their hands ; she joined them : `` the Lord hath heard my prayer , '' she said , and she wept aloud . 
`` Come with me , my child , and I will tell thee , '' replied her father , and he very discreetly led out the child , and left Jane with her faithful friend . 
Do you remember , Jane , telling me one day when you laid your book down to listen to Mr. Lloyd , who was talking to Rebecca , that since your mother 's voice had been silent , you had never heard one so sweet as Mr. Lloyd 's ? 
asked Jane , smiling at her friend 's boasted sagacity . 
I never saw one that was not , but Jane Elton . 
`` I am rejoiced , '' replied Jane , `` that your partiality to me reconciles you to the disparity in our ages . '' 
In most cases it would be too much , to be sure ; there is just four years between James and I , that is just right , I think ; but then , dear Jane , you are so different from other people , you need not go by common rules . '' 
As she parted with Jane , she whispered , `` I shall not think of leaving Mr. Lloyd till you are married , be it sooner or later ; when I see you in your own home , it will be time enough to think of my affairs . '' 
Jane had been early led to inquire into the particular modification of religion professed by her benefactor , and respect for him had probably lent additional weight to every argument in its favour ; this was natural ; and it was natural too , that after her matured judgment sanctioned her early preference , she should from motives of delicacy have hesitated to declare it . 
If the reader is not disposed to allow that Jane 's choice of the religion of her friend was the result of the purity and simplicity of her character , the preference she always gave to the spirit over the letter , to the practice over the profession , she must call to her aid the decision of the poet , who says that `` Minds are for sects of various kinds decreed , As different soils are formed for different seed . '' 
Not a word had passed between Mr. Lloyd and Jane on the subject of the mental deliberations and resolves of each , when a few days after their engagement , Jane said to him , `` I have a mind to improve the fatal hint of my little mischievous friend , and see how becoming I can make a `` quaker cap . '' 
`` What dost thou mean , Jane ? '' 
inquired Mr. Lloyd , who seemed a little puzzled by the gravity of her face , which was not quite in keeping with the playfulness of her words . 
`` Seriously , '' she replied , with your consent and approbation , `` I mean to be a ` member by request ' of your society of friends . '' 
This , indeed , converts to pure gold the only circumstance that alloyed my happiness ; but do not imagine , dear Jane , that I think it of the least consequence , by what name the different members of the christian family are called . '' 
`` But you think it right and orderly , '' she replied , smiling , `` that the wife should take the name of the husband ? '' 
It was a beautiful morning in the beginning of May -- the mist had rolled away from the valley , and wreathed with silvery clouds the sides and summits of the mountains -- the air was sweet with the ` herald blossoms ' of spring -- and nature , rising from her wintry bed , was throwing on her woods and fields her drapery of tender green -- when a carriage , containing Mr. Lloyd , Mary Hull , and little Rebecca , stopped at Mrs. Harvey 's door ; Jane , arrayed for a journey , stood awaiting it on the piazza ; old John , the basket-maker , was beside her , leaning on his cane , and good Mrs. Harvey was giving Jane 's baggage to James , who carried it to the carriage . 
`` Farewell , dear Jane , '' said Mrs. Harvey , affectionately kissing her ; -- `` now go , but do not forget there are other ` friends ' in the world , beside quakers . 
Jane was received with cordiality into the friends ' society , and their hands were joined , whose hearts were ` knit together . ' 
