IN TESTIMONY OF HIGH RESPECT AND UNFEIGNED ADMIRATION , THESE VOLUMES ARE AGAIN INSCRIBED BY It was on a still evening in June , that Laura Montreville left her father 's cottage , in the little village of Glenalbert , to begin a solitary ramble . 
Her countenance was mournful , and her step languid ; for her health had suffered from confinement , and her spirits were exhausted by long attendance on the deathbed of her mother . 
That labour of duty had been lessened by no extrinsic circumstance ; for Lady Harriet Montreville was a peevish and refractory patient ; her disorder had been tedious as well as hopeless ; and the humble establishment of a half-pay officer furnished no one who could lighten to Laura the burden of constant attendance . 
But Laura had in herself that which softens all difficulty , and beguiles all fatigue -- an active mind , a strong sense of duty , and the habit of meeting and of overcoming adverse circumstances . 
Yet he was delighted to see that Laura grew every day more lovely . 
`` Wit only makes women troublesome ; '' said he ; -- but before Laura was old enough to shew the uncommon acuteness of her understanding , he had quite forgotten that he ever applied the remark to her . 
To amuse her infancy became his chosen recreation ; to instruct her youth was afterwards his favourite employment . 
Lady Harriet , too , early began to seek food for her vanity in the superior endowments of her child , and she forthwith determined that Laura should be a paragon . 
To perfect her on nature 's plan , never entered the head of this judicious matron ; she preferred a plan of her own , and scorned to be indebted to the assistance of nature , for any part of the perfect structure which she resolved to rear . 
The temper of Laura , uniformly calm and placid , was by nature slightly inclined to obstinacy . 
Laura 's spirits were inexhaustible ; Lady Harriet thought nothing so interesting as a pensive beauty . 
Laura was both a reasonable and a reasoning creature : her mother chose that she should use the latter faculty in every instance , except where maternal authority or opinion was concerned . 
Innumerable difficulties , therefore , opposed Lady Harriet 's system ; and as violent measures ever occur first to those who are destitute of other resources , she had recourse to so many blows , disgraces , and deprivations , as must have effectually ruined the temper and dispositions of her pupil , if Laura had not soon learnt to look upon the ungoverned anger of her mother as a disease , to which she owed pity and concealment . 
This lesson was taught her partly by the example of her father , partly by the admonitions of Mrs Douglas , wife to the clergyman of the parish . 
She had always treated the little Laura with more than common tenderness ; and the child , unused to the fascinations of feminine kindness , repaid her attention with the utmost enthusiasm of love and veneration . 
With her she passed every moment allowed her for recreation ; to her she applied in every little difficulty ; from her she solicited every childish indulgence . 
The influence of this excellent woman increased with Laura 's age , till her approbation became essential to the peace of her young friend , who instinctively sought to read , in the expressive countenance of Mrs Douglas , an opinion of all her words and actions . 
She gradually laid the foundation of the most valuable qualities in the mind of Laura , by degrees teaching her to know and to love the Author of her being , to adore him as the bestower of all her innocent pleasures , to seek his favour , or to tremble at his disapprobation in every hour of her life . 
On Mrs Douglas 's own mind they had their proper effect ; and she convinced Laura that they were not subjects for cavil , but for humble and thankful acceptation . 
Laura early saw the Christian doctrines , precepts and promises , warm the heart , and guide the conduct , and animate the hopes of her whom she loved best . 
Sympathy and imitation , the strongest tendencies of infancy , first formed the disposition which reason afterwards strengthened into principle , and Laura grew up a pious Christian . 
Those who are fond of such speculations may trace , if they can , the self-denying habits of Laura , to the eagerness with which her enthusiastic mind imbibed the stories of self-devoting patriots and martyrs , and may find , in one lesson of her preceptress , the tint which coloured her future days . 
The child had been reading a narrative of the triumphant death of one of the first reformers , and , full of the emulation which the tale of heroic virtue inspires , exclaimed , her eyes flashing through their tears , her little form erect with noble daring , -- `` Let them persecute me , and I will be a martyr . '' 
In a solitary village , remote from her equals in age and rank , Laura necessarily lived much alone ; and in solitude she acquired a grave and contemplative turn of mind . 
Far from the scenes of dissipation and frivolity , conversant with the grand and the sublime in nature , her sentiments assumed a corresponding elevation . 
She had heard that there was vice in the world : she knew that there was virtue in it ; and , little acquainted with other minds , deeply studious of her own , she concluded that all mankind were , like herself , engaged in a constant endeavour after excellence ; that success in this struggle was at once virtue and happiness , while failure included misery as well as guilt . 
The habit of self-examination , early formed , and steadily maintained , made even venial trespass appear the worst of evils ; -- while , in the labours of duty and the pleasures of devotion , she found joys which sometimes rose to rapture . 
The capricious unkindness of her mother gave constant exercise to her fortitude and forbearance , while the principle of charity , no less than the feelings of benevolence , led to frequent efforts of self-denial . 
The latter virtue became daily more necessary , for mismanagement had now brought her mother 's fortune almost to a close ; and Captain Montreville , while he felt that he was injuring his child , could not prevail on himself to withhold from Lady Harriet the control of what he considered as her own , especially as her health was such as to afford a plea for indulgence . 
Laura had reached her sixteenth year , when Mr Douglas was induced , by a larger benefice , to remove to a parish almost twenty miles distant from Glenalbert ; and parting with her early friend , was the severest sorrow that Laura had ever yet known . 
Slowly she ascended the hill that overlooked the village , and , stopping near its brow , looked back towards the churchyard , to observe a brown hillock that marked the spot where her mother slept . 
Tears filled her eyes , as , passing over long intervals of unkindness , she recollected some casual proof of maternal love ; and they fell fast as she remembered , that for that love she could now make no return . 
She turned to proceed ; -- and the moist eye sparkled with pleasure , the faded cheek glowed with more than the flush of health , when she beheld springing towards her the elegant , the accomplished , Colonel Hargrave . 
Forgotten was languor ; forgotten was sorrow ; for Laura was just seventeen , and Colonel Hargrave was the most ardent , the most favoured of lovers . 
His love for Laura suited with the impetuosity of his character , and for more than a year he had laboured with assiduity and success to inspire a passion corresponding to his own . 
Yet it was not Hargrave whom Laura loved ; for the being on whom she doated had no resemblance to him , except in externals . 
It was a creature of her imagination , pure as her own heart , yet impassioned as the wildest dreams of fiction , -- intensely susceptible of pleasure , and keenly alive to pain , yet ever ready to sacrifice the one and to despise the other . 
Laura 's was completely captivated . 
He possessed an ample fortune , besides the near prospect of a title ; and nothing was farther from his thoughts , than to make the poor unknown Laura a sharer in these advantages . 
But Laura is not made for high life . 
Short commerce with the world would destroy half her witchery . 
I will hide her and myself from a censorious world ; she loves solitude ; and , with her , solitude will be delightful . '' 
Meantime , the artless Laura saw , in his highly-coloured pictures of happy love , only scenes of domestic peace and literary leisure ; and , judging of his feelings by her own , dreamed not of ought that would have disgraced the loves of angels . 
To meet her thus unexpectedly filled him with joy , and the heart of Laura throbbed quick as he expressed his rapture . 
Never had his professions been so ardent ; and , softened by sorrow and by absence , never had Laura felt such seducing tenderness as now stole upon her . 
Unable to speak , and unconscious of her path , she listened with silent rapture to the glowing language of her lover , till his entreaties wrung from her a reluctant confession of her preference . 
Unmindful of the feeling of humiliation that makes the moment of such a confession , of all others , the least favourable to a lover 's boldness , Hargrave poured forth the most vehement expressions of passion ; while , shrinking into herself , Laura now first observed , that the shades of evening were closing fast , while their lonely path led through a wood that climbed the rocky hill . 
She stopped . 
-- `` I must return , '' said she , `` my father will be anxious for me at this hour . '' 
Laura , wholly unconscious of his meaning , looked up in his face with an innocent smile . 
`` I have often taxed you with raving , '' said she , `` now , I am sure , you must admit the charge . '' 
Laura threw a tearful glance on her mourning habit . 
said she : `` Would you bring your nuptial festivities into the house of death , and mingle the sound of your marriage vow with my mother 's dying groans ? '' 
As he gazed on the death-pale face of Laura , and raised her lifeless form from the earth , compassion , which so often survives principle , overpowered all Hargrave 's impetuous feelings ; and they were succeeded by the chill of horror , as the dreadful idea occurred to him , that she was gone for ever . 
After a search , prolonged by his own frantic impatience , he arrived at the spot where he left her ; -- but no Laura was there . 
He called wildly on her name -- he was answered by the mountain-echo alone . 
After seeking her long , a hope arose that she had been able to reach the village ; and thither he determined to return , that , should his hope prove groundless , he might at least procure assistance in his search . 
As he approached the little garden that surrounded Captain Montreville 's cottage , he with joy perceived a light in the window of Laura 's apartment ; and never , in the most cheerful scenes , had he beheld her with such delight as he did now , when every gesture seemed the expression of unutterable anguish . 
He drew nearer , and saw despair painted on her every feature ; and he felt how tender was the love that could thus mourn his degeneracy , and its own blighted hopes . 
If she could thus feel for his guilt , the thought irresistibly pressed on his mind , with what bitterness would she feel her own . 
Seduction , he perceived , would with her be a work of time and difficulty ; while , could he determine to make her his wife , he was secure of her utmost gratitude and tenderness . 
The dignified beauty of Laura would grace a coronet , and more than excuse the weakness which raised her to that distinction : -- his wife would be admired and followed , while all her affections would be his alone . 
Should Laura have acquainted her father with the adventures of the evening , he might feel some little awkwardness in his first visit ; but she might perhaps have kept his secret ; and , at all events , his generous intentions would repair his offence . 
Satisfied with himself , he retired to rest , and enjoyed a repose that visited not the pillow of the innocent Laura . 
Scarcely had Hargrave quitted Laura , when her senses began to return , and with them an indefinite feeling of danger and alarm . 
The blood gushing from her mouth and nostrils , she quickly revived to a full sense of her situation , and instinctively endeavoured to quit a spot now so dark and lonely . 
Terror gave her strength to proceed . 
Every path in her native woods was familiar to her : she darted through them with what speed she could command ; and , reckless of all danger but that from which she fled , she leapt from the projecting rocks , or gradually descended from the more fearful declivities , by clinging to the trees which burst from the fissures ; till , exhausted with fatigue , she reached the valley , and entered the garden that surrounded her home . 
Here , supported no longer by the sense of danger , her spirits utterly failed her ; and she threw herself on the ground , without a wish but to die . 
From this state she was roused by the voice of her father , who , on the outside of the fence , was inquiring of one of the villagers , whether she had been seen . 
Wishing , she scarcely knew why , to escape all human eyes , she rose , and , without meeting Captain Montreville , gained her own apartment . 
As she closed her door , and felt for a moment the sense of security , which every one experiences in the chamber which he calls his own , -- `` Oh ! '' 
cried she , `` that I could thus shut out the base world for ever . '' 
There was in Laura 's chamber one spot , which had , in her eyes , something of holy , for it was hallowed by the regular devotions of her life . 
On it she had breathed her first infant prayer . 
There shone on her the eastern sun , as she offered her morning tribute of praise . 
There first fell the shades of evening that invited her to implore the protection of her God . 
On that spot she had so often sought consolation , so often found her chief delight , that it was associated in her mind with images of hope and comfort ; and springing towards it , she now almost unconsciously dropped upon her knees . 
While she poured forth her soul in prayer , her anguish softened into resignation ; and with the bitter tears of disappointment , those of gratitude mingled , while she thanked Him who , though He had visited her with affliction , had preserved her from guilt . 
She rose , composed though wretched , resigned though hopeless ; and , when summoned to supper , had sufficient recollection to command her voice , while she excused herself on the plea of a violent head-ache . 
Left to herself , she passed the sleepless night , now in framing excuses for her lover , now in tormenting reflections on her mistaken estimate of his character ; and in bitter regrets that what seemed so excellent should be marred with so foul a stain . 
But Laura 's thoughts were so habitually the prelude to action , that , even in the severest conflict of her powers , she was not likely to remain long in a state of ineffective meditation . 
was a question which , from childhood , Laura had every hour habitually asked herself ; and the irresistible force of the habit of many years , brought the same question to her mind when she rose with the dawn . 
With a heavy heart , she was obliged to confess , that delicacy , no less than prudence , must forbid all future intercourse with Hargrave . 
But he had for some time been a constant visitor at the cottage , till excluded by the increasing illness of Lady Harriet . 
He might now renew his visits , and how was it possible to prevent this ? 
Should she refuse to see him , her father must be made acquainted with the cause of such a refusal , and she could not doubt that the consequences would be such as she shuddered to think of . 
Laura 's thoughts were usually clear and distinct ; and there was something in this distinct idea of evasion and deceit , that sickened her very soul . 
Laura , instantly sensible of her mistake , colouring , stammered something of the cheering influence of the morning air ; and then meditating on a proper medium in her demeanour , sunk into so long a silence , that Captain Montreville could not have failed to remark it , had not his attention been diverted by the arrival of the newspaper , which he continued to study till breakfast was ended , when Laura gladly retired to her room . 
Though the understanding of Laura was above her years , she had not escaped a mistake common to the youth of both sexes , when smarting under a recent disappointment in love , -- the mistake of supposing , that all the interest of life is , with respect to them , at an end , and that their days must thenceforth bring only a dull routine of duties without incitement , and of toils without hope . 
But the leading principle of Laura 's life was capable of giving usefulness even to her errors ; and the gloom of the wilderness , through which her path seemed to lie , only brightened , by contrast , the splendour that lay beyond . 
`` The world , '' thought she , `` has now nothing to offer that I covet , and little to threaten that I fear . 
Must she apply such a name to Hargrave ! 
From a long and melancholy reverie , Laura was awakened by the sound of the garden gate , and she perceived that it was entered by Colonel Hargrave . 
Though Colonel Hargrave was certainly one of the best bred men in the kingdom , and , of consequence , entirely free from the awkwardness of mauvaise honte , it must be confessed , that he entered the presence of the father of Laura with rather less than his accustomed ease ; but the cordial salutation of Captain Montreville banishing all fear that the lady had been too communicative , our lover proceeded , without any remaining embarrassment , to unfold the purpose of his visit . 
So complete , indeed , was his self-approbation , that he doubted not but his present magnanimous resolve would efface from the mind of Laura all resentment for his offence . 
Her displeasure he thought would be very short-lived , if he were able to convince her that his fault was not premeditated . 
As Laura had so well concealed his indiscretion , he was too good a politician himself to expose it ; and he proceeded to make such offers in regard to settlements , as suited the liberality of his character . 
The Colonel felt a strong conviction that no constraint would be necessary : nevertheless , turning a neat period , importing his willingness to resign his love , rather than interfere with the happiness of Miss Montreville , he closed the conference , by entreating that the Captain would give him an immediate opportunity of learning his fate from the lips of the fair Laura herself . 
Laura had continued to follow them with her eyes , till they entered the house together ; and the next minute Captain Montreville knocked at her door . 
Laura was on the point of protesting against any communication with Colonel Hargrave ; but instantly recollecting the explanation that would be necessary , `` I will go to him this instant , '' she exclaimed with an eagerness that astonished her father . 
Laura coloured violently ; for , amidst all her fears of a discovery , she found place for a strong feeling of resentment , at the easy security of forgiveness , that seemed intimated by a visit so immediately succeeding the offence . 
Having employed the few moments she passed at her toilette in collecting her thoughts , she descended to the parlour , fully resolved to give no countenance to the hopes her lover might have built on her supposed weakness . 
The Colonel was alone ; and , as she opened the door , eagerly advanced towards her . 
`` My adored Laura , '' cried he , `` this condescension -- . '' 
Had he staid to read the pale , but resolute countenance of his `` adored '' Laura , he would have spared his thanks for her condescension . 
She interrupted him . 
`` Colonel Hargrave , '' said she , with imposing seriousness , `` I have a request to make to you . 
`` Ah , Laura ! 
`` Promise me , that you will never make known to my father -- that you will take every means to conceal from him the -- , '' she hesitated , `` the -- our meeting last night , '' she added , rejoiced to have found a palliative expression for her meaning . 
dearest Laura ! 
If indeed , '' added she shuddering , while an expression of sudden anguish crossed her features , `` if indeed promises can weigh with such a one as you . '' 
Impatient to conclude an interview which tasked her fortitude to the utmost , Laura was about to retire . 
`` Surely , Laura , you will not leave me thus . 
The native spirit , and wounded delicacy of Laura , flashed from her eyes , while she replied : `` I fear , Sir , I shall not suitably grateful for your generosity , while I recollect the alternative you would have preferred . '' 
This was the first time that Laura had ever appeared to her lover , other than the tender , the timid girl . 
From this character she seemed to have started at once into the high-spirited , the dignified woman ; and , with a truly masculine passion for variety , Hargrave thought he had never seen her half so fascinating . 
`` My angelic Laura , '' cried he , as he knelt before her , `` lovelier in your cruelty , suffer me to prove to you my repentance -- my reverence -- my adoration ; -- suffer me to prove them to the world , by uniting our fates for ever . '' 
`` It is fit the guilty should kneel , '' said Laura , turning away , `` but not to their fellow mortals . 
`` Good heavens , Laura , will you sacrifice to a punctilio -- to a fit of Calvinistic enthusiasm , the peace of my life , the peace of your own ? 
`` I do not act upon punctilio , '' returned Laura calmly ; -- `` I believe I am no enthusiast . 
`` Dearest Laura , bound by your charms , allured by your example , my reformation would be certain , my virtue secure . '' 
Then honoured , beloved , as a husband , as a father '' -- The fortitude of Laura failed before the picture of her fancy , and she was unable to proceed . 
Determined to conceal her weakness from Hargrave , she broke from him , and hurried towards the door ; -- but , melting into tenderness at the thought that this interview was perhaps the last , she turned . 
`` Oh , Hargrave , '' she cried , clasping her hands as in supplication , `` have pity on yourself -- have pity on me -- forsake the fatal path on which you have entered , that , though for ever torn from you here , I may yet meet you in a better world . '' 
She then darted from the room , leaving her lover is dumb amazement , at the conclusion of an interview so different from his expectations . 
For the resentement of Laura he had been prepared ; but upon her determined refusal , he had never calculated , and scarcely could he now admit its reality . 
Could he give her credit for the professed motive of her rejection ? 
The simple , the noble , the candid Laura guilty of coquetry ? 
While these thoughts darted with confused rapidity through his mind , one idea alone was distinct and permanent -- Laura had rejected him . 
Though his passion for Laura was the most ardent of which he was capable , its effects , for the present , more resembled those of the bitterest hatred . 
That she loved him , he would not allow himself to doubt ; and , therefore , he concluded that neglect would inflict the surest , as well as the most painful wound . 
Swearing that he would make her feel it at her heart 's core , he left the cottage , strode to the village inn , surlily ordered his horses , and , in a humour compounded of revenue , impatient passion , and wounded pride , returned to his quarters at -- . 
Though he entertained not a doubt of the issue of the conference , he had some curiosity to know the particulars , and summoned Laura to communicate them . 
`` Well , my love , '' said he , as the conscious Laura shut the parlour door , `` is Colonel Hargrave gone ? '' 
Laura made no answer . 
Laura did not know . 
Laura trembled in every limb . 
`` I knew , '' said she , without venturing to lift her eye , `` that you would never sacrifice your child to rank or fortune ; and therefore I had no hesitation in refusing Colonel Hargrave . '' 
Laura , with much truth , assured him that she never in her life had been more serious . 
At last recovering himself , -- `` Why , Laura , '' said he , `` what objection could you possibly make to Hargrave , -- he is young , handsome , accomplished , and has shewn such generosity in his choice of you '' -- -- `` Generosity ! 
Sir , '' repeated Laura . 
Laura 's sentiments on this subject did not exactly coincide with her father 's but she remained silent while he continued : `` I think I have a right to hear your objections , for I am entirely at a loss to guess them . 
A sickness , as of death , seized Laura ; but she answered steadily , `` Indeed , Sir , the Colonel 's views are so different from mine -- his dispositions so very unlike -- so opposite , that nothing but unhappiness could possibly result form such an union . 
But , '' added she , forcing a languid smile , `` we shall , if you please , discuss all this to-morrow ; for , indeed , to-day , I am unable to defend my own cause with you . 
Captain Montreville looked at Laura , and , in the alarm which her unusual paleness excited , lost all sense of the disappointment she had just caused him . 
He threw his arm tenderly round her -- supported her to her own apartment -- begged she would try to rest , -- ran to seek a cordial for his darling ; and then , fearing that the dread of his displeasure should add to her disorder , hastened back to assure her that , though her happiness was his dearest concern , he never meant to interfere with her judgment of the means by which it was to be promoted . 
Tears of affectionate gratitude burst from the eyes of Laura . 
`` My dear kind father , '' she cried , `` let me love -- let me please you -- and I ask no other earthly happiness . '' 
Captain Montreville then left her to rest ; and , quite exhausted with illness , fatigue , and sorrow , she slept soundly for many hours . 
He was compelled at last to defer his conclusions till Laura herself should solve the difficulty . 
Laura had long been accustomed , when assailed by any adverse circumstance , whether more trivial or more important , to seize the first opportunity of calmly considering how far she had herself contributed to the disaster ; and , as nothing is more hostile to good humour than an illdefined feeling of self-reproach , the habit was no less useful to the regulation of our heroine 's temper , than to her improvement in the rarer virtues of prudence and candour . 
These prudent reflections came , in part , too late ; for to love , Laura was persuaded she must henceforth be a stranger . 
But to her friendships , she conceived , that they might be applicable ; and she determined to make them useful in her future intercourse with her own sex ; to whom , perhaps , they may be applied even with more justice than to the other . 
The mind of Laura had been early stored with just and rational sentiments . 
Had she called prudence to her aid , in the first stage of her acquaintance with the insinuating Hargrave , what anguish would she not have spared herself . 
But if the higher wisdom be to foresee and prevent misfortune , the next degree is to make the best of it when unavoidable ; and Laura resolved that this praise at least should be her 's . 
Fortified by this resolution , she quitted her apartment , busied herself in her domestic affairs , met her father almost with cheerfulness ; and , when he renewed the subject of their last conversation , repeated , with such composure , her conviction of the dissimilarity of Hargrave 's dispositions to her own , that Captain Montreville began to think that he had been mistaken in his opinion of her preference . 
Still , however , he could not account for her rejection of an offer so unobjectionable ; and he hinted a suspicion , that some of Hargrave 's gallantries had been repeated to her , and perhaps with exaggeration . 
With trembling lips , Laura assured him she had never heard the slightest insinuation against Colonel Hargrave . 
Though Laura had little of romance in her composition , her father now began to imagine , that she allowed herself to cherish the romantic dream , that sympathy of souls , and exactly concordant tastes and propensities , were necessary to the happiness of wedded life . 
But Laura calmly declared , that her tastes were not inflexible ; and that , had she intended to marry , she should have found it an easy duty to conform them to those of her husband : but that the thought of marriage was shocking to her , and that she trusted no man would ever again think of her as a wife . 
As soon as her father left her , Laura , determined not to be brave by halves , began the painful task of destroying every relic of Hargrave 's presence . 
But such thoughts as these could not linger in the reasonable mind of Laura . 
The next moment she blushed for her weakness ; and , casting away its last treasure , averted her eyes till the flames had consumed it to ashes . 
`` Now all is over , '' she cried , as she threw herself upon a chair and burst into tears . 
But , quickly wiping them away , she resolved that she would not wilfully bind herself to the rack of recollection , and hastened to exert herself in some of her ordinary employments . 
Laura was aware that the cottage , where every walk , every shrub , every flower spoke of Hargrave , was a scene unlikely to aid her purpose of forgetting him ; and , therefore , she that evening proposed to her father that they should pay their long promised visit to Mrs Douglas . 
Their journey was fixed for the following week , and Laura occupied herself in preparing for their departure , though with feelings far different from the delight , with which , a few days before , she would have anticipated a meeting with her early friend . 
Mrs Douglas observed , with satisfaction , the improved stature and increasing gracefulness of her young favourite ; but she remarked , with painful interest , that the hectic of pleasure which tinged the cheek of Laura , at their meeting , faded fast to the hue of almost sickly delicacy . 
She soon noticed that an expression , as of sudden torture , would sometimes contract , for a moment , the polished forehead of Laura ; that it was now succeeded by the smothered sigh , the compressed lip , the hasty motion that spoke strong mental effort , now subsided into the languor of deep unconquered melancholy . 
But it was soon evident that this was a secret which Laura had no intention to disclose . 
A glance from the inquiring eye of Mrs Douglas , at once recalled her to constrained cheerfulness ; and the presence of Captain Montreville seemed always to put her entirely upon her guard . 
While he was in the room , she talked , road aloud , or played with the children , as if determined to be amused ; but as soon as he retired , she relapsed , like one wearied with effort , into languor and melancholy , till recalled to herself by the scrutinizing looks of Mrs Douglas . 
Months , indeed , had elapsed since Laura could have pronounced that name without painful emotion -- to utter it now was become almost impossible . 
She felt that she had no right to publish , while she rejected , his addresses ; and she felt an invincible repugnance to expose even his failings , but much more his vices , to the censure of the respectable Mrs Douglas . 
Mrs Douglas , in reply , had desired to hear more of this phoenix ; but before Laura again found leisure to write , she was no longer inclined to make Hargrave her subject , and her friend had desisted from fruitless inquiries . 
This communication served only to increase her perplexity as to the cause of Laura 's depression ; yet she felt herself relieved from the apprehension , that hopeless love or Hargrave was wasting the health and peace of her dear Laura . 
Still , however , she continued to watch that expressive countenance , to weigh every word that might tend to unfold the enigma . 
In vain ; -- Laura studiously avoided all approach to an explanation . 
One morning after the gentlemen had left them alone together , Mrs Douglas , meditating on the best means of introducing the subject she had so much at heart , had fallen into a long silence ; when looking up , she perceived that Laura had let fall her work , and was sitting with her eyes fixed , and her arms dropped , in the attitude of one whose thoughts had no connection with present objects . 
Large tears stole from under Laura 's downcast eyelids ; but she spoke not . 
Laura threw herself into the arms of her friend , and for some moments sobbed with uncontrolled emotion ; but soon composing herself , she replied : `` If advice could have profited , if consolation could have reached me , where should I have sought them unless from you , respected friend of my youth ; -- but the warning voice of wisdom comes now too late , and even your sympathy would be bestowed in vain . '' 
`` Heaven forbid that my dearest Laura should be beyond the reach of comfort . 
`` I am grateful to Heaven , '' said Laura , `` that I have been less guilty than imprudent . 
Laura , '' said she , `` that path is not the path of safety in which you would elude a father 's eye . '' 
Laura 's glance met that of her friend ; and she read suspicion there . 
The thought was so painful to her , that she was on the pint of disclosing all ; but she remembered that the reasons which had at first determined her to silence , were not altered by any one 's suspicions , and she restrained herself . 
Mrs Douglas looked on the open candid countenance of Laura , and her suspicions vanished in a moment ; but they returned when her young friend reiterated her entreaties that she would not hint the subject to her father . 
Laura was , however , fortified in her resolutions of concealment , by an opinion she had often heard Mrs Douglas express , that the feelings of disappointed love should by women be kept inviolably secret . 
Laura perceived his emotion ; and , ever alive to the painful subject nearest her heart , instantly concluded that the letter brought a confession from Hargrave . 
She heard her father 's disordered steps pacing the apartment above , and earnestly longed , yet feared to join him . 
She laid her hand upon the lock ; paused again , with failing courage , and was about to retire , when her father opened the door . 
Laura , trembling , followed him into the room . 
Laura 's imagination took the alarm ; and , forgetting how unlikely it was that Captain Montreville should disclose such a resolution to her , she thought only of his intending to prepare for a journey whence there is no return , before he should stake his life against that of Hargrave . 
Laura 's heart leapt light . 
said she , in a tone of cheerful inquiry . 
Having read the letter , Laura continued for some moments to muse on its contents , with her eyes vacantly fixed on the civil expression of concern with which it concluded . 
`` How merciful it is , '' she exclaimed , `` that this blow fell not till my mother was insensible of the stroke . '' 
`` Dearest father , '' said Laura , `` think not of me . 
But perhaps , '' added she , cheerfully , `` something may be done to this disaster . 
Captain Montreville had , from Laura 's infancy , been accustomed to witness instances of her fortitude , to see her firm under unmerited chastisement , and patient under bodily suffering -- but her composure on this occasion , so far surpassed his expectations , that he was inclined to attribute it less to fortitude than to inconsideration . 
`` How light-hearted is youth , '' thought he , as he quitted her . 
Laura had often taken a near survey of poverty . 
She had entered the cabins of the very poor -- seen infancy squalid , and youth spiritless -- manhood exhausted by toil , and age pining without comfort . 
In fancy she had substituted herself in the place of these victims of want ; felt by sympathy their varieties of wretchedness ; and she justly considered poverty among the heaviest of human calamities . 
But she was sensible that her firmness might support her father 's spirits , or her weakness serve to aggravate his distress ; and she wisely pushed aside the more formidable mischief , which she could not surmount , to attend to the more immediate evil , which she felt it in her power to alleviate . 
The moment she was alone , Laura fell on her knees : `` Oh ! 
Heavenly Providence , '' she cried , `` save , if it be thy will , my dear father 's age from poverty , though , like my great Master , I should not have where to lay my head . '' 
She continued to pray long and fervently , for spirits to cheer her father under his misfortune ; and for fortitude to endure her own peculiar sorrow , in her estimation so much more bitter . 
Having implored the blessing of Heaven on her exertions , she next began to practise them . 
She wandered out to court the exhilarating influence of the mountain air ; and studiously turning her attention to all that was gay , sought to rouse her spirits for the task she had assigned them . 
She was so successful , that she was that evening the life of the little friendly circle . 
She talked , sang , and recited -- she exerted all the wit and vivacity of which she was mistress -- she employed powers of humour which she herself had scarcely been conscious of possessing . 
Her gaiety soon became contagious . 
Scarcely a trace appeared of the anxious fears of Mrs Douglas , or the parental uneasiness of Captain Montreville , and fewer still of the death-stroke which disappointed confidence had carried to the peace of poor Laura . 
But when she retired to the solitude of her chamber , her exhausted spirits found relief in tears . 
She felt , that long to continue her exertion would be impossible ; and , in spite of reason , which told of the danger of solitude , anticipated , with pleasure , the moment when total seclusion should leave her free to undisguised wretchedness . 
Laura was not yet , however , destined to the hopeless task of combating misplaced affection in entire seclusion . 
On the following morning she found a stranger at the breakfast table . 
Relieved , by his presence , from the task of entertaining , Laura scarcely listened to the conversation , till the stranger , having risen from table , began to examine a picture which occupied a distinguished place in Mrs Douglas 's parlour . 
It was the work of Laura , who was no mean proficient . 
She had early discovered what is called a genius for painting ; that is to say , she had exercised much of her native invention and habitual industry on the art . 
Even when her performances had little in them of wonderful but their number , her acquaintance pronounced them wonderful ; and they obtained the more useful approbation of a neighbouring nobleman , who invited her to copy from any part of his excellent collection . 
Her progress was now , indeed , marvellous to those who were new to the effects of unremitting industry , guided by models of exquisite skill . 
Having long and sedulously copied from pieces of acknowledged merit , she next attempted an original ; and having with great care composed and with incredible labour finished her design , she dedicated to Mrs Douglas the first fruits of her improved talents , in the picture which the stranger was now contemplating . 
Mrs Douglas was about to direct his praise to its rightful owner , but Laura silenced her by a look . 
Her labours might , it appeared , relieve the wants or increase the comforts of her father 's age ; and , with a face that glowed with enthusiasm , and eyes that sparkled with renovated hope , she eagerly advanced to question the critic as to the value of her work . 
In reply , he named a price so far exceeding her expectations , that her resolution was formed in a moment . 
She would accompany her father to London , and there try what pecuniary advantage was to be derived from her talent . 
On a scheme which was to repair all her father 's losses , prudence had not time to pause ; and , feeling company a restraint on her pleasure , Laura ran to her apartment , rather to enjoy than to reconsider her plan . 
Having spent some time in delightful anticipation of the pleasure which her father would take in the new team and thrashing-mill with which she would adorn his farm , and the comfort he would enjoy in the new books and easy sofa with which her labours would furnish his library , she recollected a hundred questions that she wished to ask the stranger , concerning the best means of disposing of her future productions , and she ran down stairs to renew the conversation . 
No trifle could at this moment have discomposed Laura ; and , with steps as light as a heart from which , for a time , all selfish griefs were banished , she crossed the little lawn in search of her father . 
The moment she overtook him , locking her arm in his , and looking smilingly up in his face , she began so urgent an entreaty to be admitted as the companion of his journey , that Captain Montreville , with some curiosity , inquired what had excited in her this sudden inclination to travel ? 
Laura blushed and hesitated ; for though her plan had , in her own opinion , all the charms which we usually attribute to the new born children of our fancy , she felt that an air of more prudence and forethought might be requisite to render it equally attractive in the eyes of Captain Montreville . 
She exerted , however , all the rhetoric she could at that moment command , to give her scheme a plausible appearance . 
With respect to herself , she was entirely successful ; and she ventured to cast a look of triumphant appeal on her father . 
Captain Montreville , unwilling to refuse the request of his darling , remained silent ; but at the detail of her plan , he shook his head . 
Tears , half of sorrow , half of vexation , forced their way to the eyes of Laura ; and she walked silently on , without courage to renew the attack , till they were joined by Mrs Douglas . 
Disconcerted by her ill success with her father , Laura felt little inclination to subject her scheme to the animadversions of her friend ; but Captain Montreville , expecting an auxiliary , by whose aid he might conquer the weakness of yielding without conviction , called upon Mrs Douglas , in a manner which shewed him secure of her reply , to give her opinion of Laura 's proposal . 
Mrs Douglas , who had heard , with a degree of horror , of the intention to consign Laura to solitude in her present state of suppressed dejection , and who considered new scenes and new interests as indispensable to her restoration , interpreting the asking looks of the fair petitioner , surprised Captain Montreville by a decided verdict in her favour . 
Rapturously thanking her advocate , Laura now renewed her entreaties with such warmth , that her father , not possessed of that facility in refusing which results from practice , gave a half-reluctant acquiescence . 
The delight which his consent conveyed to Laura , which sparkled in her expressive features , and animated her artless gestures , converted his half-extorted assent into cordial concurrence ; for to the defects of any scheme that gave her pleasure , he was habitually blind . 
In the course of the evening , Captain Montreville announced that , in order to give his daughter time to prepare for her journey , it would be necessary for them to return to Glenalbert on the following morning . 
While Mrs Douglas was assisting Laura to pack up her little wardrobe , she attempted to break her guarded silence on the subject of Hargrave , by saying , `` I doubt this same journey of your 's will prevent Colonel Hargrave from trying the effects of perseverance , which I used to think the most infallible resort in love , as well as in more serious undertakings . '' 
Laura began a most diligent search for something upon the carpet . 
Laura continued industriously cramming a bandbox . 
Laura suddenly desisted from her employment , rose , and turning full towards Mrs Douglas , said -- `` It is unkind , it is cruel , thus to urge me , when you know that duty more than inclination keeps me silent . '' 
`` Pardon me , my dear Laura , '' said Mrs Douglas , `` I have no wish to persecute you ; but you know I was ignorant that Colonel Hargrave was our interdicted subject . '' 
She then entered on another topic ; and Laura , vexed at the partial disclosure she had inadvertently made , uneasy at being the object of constant scrutiny , and hurt at being obliged to thwart the habitual openness of her temper , felt less sorry than relieved as she sprung into the carriage that was to convey her to Glenalbert . 
Other interests , too , quickened her desire to return home . 
She longed , with a feeling which could not be called hope , though it far exceeded curiosity , to know whether Hargrave had called or written during her absence ; and the moment the chaise stopped , she flew to the table where the letters were deposited to wait their return . 
Laura 's eyes filled with tears of bitterness . 
`` I am easily relinquished , '' thought she -- `` but it is better that it should be so ; '' and she dashed away the drops as they rose . 
She would fain have vented her feelings in the solitude of her chamber ; but this was her father 's first return to a widowed home , and she would not leave him to its loneliness . 
She entered the parlour . 
Captain Montreville was already there ; and , cheerfully welcoming him home , she shook up the cushion of an elbow-chair by the fire-side , and invited him to sit . 
`` No , love , '' said he , gently compelling her , `` do you take that seat ; it was your mother 's . '' 
Laura saw his lip quiver , and , suppressing the sob that swelled her bosom , she tenderly withdrew him from the room , led him to the garden , invited his attention to her new-blown carnations , and gradually diverted his regard to such cheerful objects , that , had Captain Montreville examined what was passing in his own mind , he must have confessed that he felt the loss of Lady Harriet less as a companion than an antagonist . 
Laura 's conversation , on the contrary , amusing without effort , ingenious without constraint , and rational without stiffness , furnished to her father a real and constant source of enjoyment ; because , wholly exempt from all desire to shine , she had leisure to direct to the more practicable art of pleasing , those efforts by which so many others vainly attempt to dazzle . 
The three following days Laura employed in making arrangements for her journey . 
Desirous to enliven the solitude in which she was about to leave her only attendant , she consigned the care of the cottage , during her absence , to the girl 's mother , who was likewise her own nurse ; and cautious of leaving to the temptations of idleness , one for whose conduct she felt herself in some sort accountable , she allotted to Nanny the task of making winter clothing for some of the poorest inhabitants of Glenalbert ; a task which her journey prevented her from executing herself . 
Nor were the materials of this little charity subtracted from her father 's scanty income , but deducted from comforts exclusively her own . 
Though , in the bustle of preparation , scarcely a moment remained unoccupied , Laura could not always forbear from starting at the sound of the knocker , or following with her eyes the form of a horseman winding through the trees . 
In vain she looked -- in vain she listened . 
She tried to rejoice at the desertion : `` I am glad of it , '' she would say to herself , while bitter tears were bursting from her eyes . 
She often reproached herself with the severity of her language at her last interview with Hargrave . 
She asked herself what right she had to embitter disappointment by unkindness , or to avenge insult by disdain . 
Her behaviour appeared to her , in the retrospect , ungentle , unfeminine , unchristian . 
Yet she did not for a moment repent her rejection , nor waver for a moment in her resolution to adhere to it . 
Her soul sickened at the thought , that she had been the object of licentious passion merely ; and she loathed to look upon her own lovely form , while she thought that it had seduced the senses , but failed to touch the soul of Hargrave . 
Amidst these employments and feelings the week had closed ; and the Sabbath evening was the last which Laura was to spend at Glenalbert . 
That evening had long been her chosen season of meditation , the village church-yard the scene where she loved to `` go forth to meditate . '' 
Thither Laura stole , when the sun , which had been hid by the rugged hill , again rolling forth from behind it , poured through the long dale his rays upon this rustic cemetery ; the only spot in the valley sufficiently elevated to catch his parting beam . 
`` How long , how deep is the shadow -- how glorious in brightness the reverse , '' said she , as she seated herself under the shade of the newly raised grave-stone that marked the place of her mother 's rest ; and turning her mind 's eye from what seemed a world of darkness , she raised it to scenes of everlasting light . 
Her fancy , as it soared to regions of bliss without alloy , looked back with something like disgust on the labours that were to prepare her for their enjoyment , and a feeling almost of disappointment and impatience accompanied the recollection , that her pilgrimage was to all appearance only beginning . 
But she checked the feeling as it rose , and , in penitence and resignation , raised her eyes to heaven . 
Laura remembered her well -- she was the beauty of Glenalbert ; but her lover left her for a richer bride , and her proud spirit sunk beneath the stroke . 
The village artist had depicted her want of resignation in a rude sculpture of the prophet 's lamentation over his withered gourd . 
`` My gourd , too , is withered , '' said Laura . 
The reflections of Laura were disturbed by the noise of some one springing over the fence ; and , the next moment , Hargrave was at her side . 
Laura uttered neither shriek nor exclamation -- but she turned ; and , with steps as precipitate as would bear the name of walking , proceeded towards the gate . 
Laura replied not , by word or look . 
Laura rather quickened her pace . 
Laura continued to advance . 
Laura laid her hand upon the gate . 
he cried , and , throwing his arm round her , compelled her to be seated on the stone-bench at the gate . 
Laura coldly withdrew herself . 
`` By what right , Sir , '' said she , `` do you presume to detain me ? '' 
Surely , Laura , you are now sufficiently averaged -- surely your stubborn pride may now condescend to hear me . '' 
-- `` Well , Sir , '' said Laura , without attempting to depart ; `` what are your commands ? '' 
`` Oh , Laura , I can not bear your displeasure -- it makes me supremely miserable . 
Laura , you loved me once . 
Laura shrunk trembling from his violence . 
`` Colonel Hargrave , '' said she , `` if you do not restrain this vehemence , I must , I will be gone . 
`` Colonel Hargrave , '' said Laura , `` you have my forgiveness . 
Hargrave , '' cried the trembling Laura , `` talk not so wildly ; Heaven will hear my prayers for you . 
Dare not , '' said he , grasping her arm , -- `` dare not to seek the protection of another . 
cried Laura , wringing her hands in anguish , `` this is real frenzy . 
-- Her tears recalled Hargrave to something like composure . 
`` Dearest Laura , '' said he , `` I wish to soften -- I only terrify you . 
Laura averted her face . 
`` Why prolong this distressing interview , '' said she , -- `` You have heard my determination . 
The triumph of self-conquest gave firmness to her voice ; and Hargrave , driven again from composure by her self-command , sprang from her side . 
said Laura , sternly . 
At this moment Laura 's eyes fell on her father , who was entering the little avenue . 
In an agony of terror , Laura grasped his arm . 
`` Spare me , spare me , '' she said , `` and do with me what you will ! '' 
Captain Montreville saw that the walk was occupied ; he turned from it , and Laura had again time to breathe . 
Laura covered her face with her hands . 
`` Let me not hear you -- let me not look upon you , '' said she ; -- `` leave me to think , if it be possible , '' -- and she poured a silent prayer to Heaven for help in this her sorest trial . 
The effort composed her , and the majesty of virtue gave dignity to her form , and firmness to her voice , while she said , -- `` My father 's life is in the hands of Providence -- it will still be so , when I have repeated to you , that I dare not trust to principles such as yours the guardianship of this the infancy of my being . 
Hargrave had trusted that the tenderness of Laura would seduce , or his ardour overpower her firmness ; but he read the expression of her pale determined countenance , and felt assured that she was lost to him for ever . 
Convinced that all appeal to her feelings would be hopeless , he would deign to make none ; but , in a voice made almost inarticulate by the struggle of pride and anguish , he said , -- `` Miss Montreville , your father 's life is safe from me -- I will not lift my hand against it . 
From the storm of passion , Laura had shrunk with terror and dismay ; but the voice of suppressed anguish struck her to the soul . 
Hargrave , '' she cried , with tears no longer to be restrained , `` you have my tenderest pity -- would to Heaven that the purity of your future life would restore me to the happiness of esteeming you ! '' 
Laura 's tenderness revived , in a moment , the hopes of Hargrave . 
`` Dearest Laura , one word from you will lure me back to the path of virtue -- will you wilfully destroy even the wish to return ? 
Laura had resisted entreaty -- had withstood alarm -- had conquered strong affection ; but the hope of rousing Hargrave to the views , the pursuits , the habits of a Christian , betrayed her caution , and gladdened her heart to rapture . 
Love and joy animated every feature of his fine countenance ; he threw himself at the feet of Laura , and rapturously blessed her for her condescension . 
His extasies first made her sensible of the extent of her concession ; and she feared that she had gone too far . 
But with her , a promise , however inadvertent , was a sacred thing , which she would neither qualify nor retract . 
She contented herself , therefore , with merely repeating the terms of it , emphatically guarding the conditions . 
Desirous now to have leisure for reflection , she reminded him that the lateness of the hour made it fit that he should depart ; and , inwardly persuaded that she would not long obdurately refuse him another interview , he obeyed without much opposition . 
As soon as he had finished his repast , he walked towards Montreville 's cottage , ostensibly to pay his respects to the Captain , but , in reality , with the hope of obtaining a private interview with Laura . 
Vexed and disappointed , he wandered down the churchyard-lane , and reached the spot where he had last seen Laura . 
He threw himself on the seat that had supported her graceful form -- called to mind her consummate loveliness -- her ill-repressed tenderness -- and most cordially consigned himself to Satan for neglecting to wring from her some further concessions . 
She was now removed from the solitude where he had reigned without a rival . 
Her 's would be the gaze of every eye -- her 's the command of every heart . 
By the time he had uttered this prediction , and bit his lip half through -- he was some steps on his way to order his horses , that he might pursue his fair fugitive , in the hope of extorting from her some less equivocal kind of promise . 
Fortunately for his reputation for sanity , however , he recollected , before he began his pursuit , that , ere he could overtake her , Laura must have reached Edinburgh , where , without a direction , it might be difficult to discover her abode . 
On comparing the suppressed melancholy of Laura , her embarrassment at the mention of Hargrave , and her inadvertent disclosure , with her father 's detail of her rejection of the insinuating young soldier , a suspicion not very remote from truth , had entered the mind of Mrs Douglas . 
She imagined that Captain Montreville had in some way been deceived as to the kind of proposals made to his daughter ; and that Laura had rejected no offers but such as it would have been infamy to accept . 
Under this conviction , it is not surprising that her reception of the Colonel was far from being cordial ; nor that , guessing his correspondence to be rather intended for the young lady than for the old gentleman , she chose to afford no facility to an intercourse which she considered as both dangerous and degrading . 
To Hargrave 's questions , therefore , she answered , that until she should hear from London , she was ignorant of Captain Montreville 's address ; and that the time of his return was utterly unknown to her . 
When the Colonel , with the same intention , soon after repeated his visit , she quietly , but steadily , evaded all his inquiries , equally unmoved by his entreaties , and by the paroxysms of impatience with which he endured his disappointment . 
Some casual instances of his feeling , and of his charity , had fallen under the observation of Laura ; and upon these , upon the fascination of his manners , and the expression of his countenance , her fervid imagination had grafted every virtue than can exalt or adorn humanity . 
Laura was only seventeen -- Hargrave was the first handsome man of fashion she had ever known , the first who had ever poured into her ear the soothing voice of love . 
Yet Hargrave was not less insensible to the real charms of Laura 's mind , than she was unconscious of the defects in his . 
He was ignorant of the standard by which Laura would judge him . 
He was willing to believe that , if she were left to herself , it would not be severe ; but the words of her promise seemed to imply , that his conduct was to be subjected to the scrutiny of less partial censors , and he felt some anxiety to know who were to be his `` wise , '' `` sober-minded , '' `` pious '' inspectors . 
In the meantime his magnet of attraction to Perthshire was gone ; he soon began to grow weary of the feeling of restraint , occasioned by supposing himself the subject of a system of espionage ; and to kill the time , and relieve himself from his imaginary shackles , he sought the assistance of the Edinburgh races ; determined , that if Laura prolonged her stay in London , he would obtain leave of absence , and seek her there . 
The grey lights of morning shone mild on Glenalbert , as the carriage , which was conveying Laura to scenes unknown , wound slowly up the hill . 
With watery eyes she looked back on the quiet beauties of her native valley . 
She listened to the dashing of its stream , till the murmur died on her ear . 
Her lowly home soon glided behind the woods ; but its early smoke rose peaceful from amidst its sheltering oaks , till it blended with the mists of the morning ; and Laura gazed on it as on the parting steps of a friend . 
she exclaimed , `` where my childhood sported -- mountains that have echoed to my songs of praise , amidst your shades may my age find shelter -- may your wild-flowers bloom on my grave ! '' 
But whatever it expressed , it was discord with the tone of Laura 's mind . 
It struck cold on her glowing heart ; and she carefully avoided uttering a word that might call forth such another , till , bright gleaming in the setting sun , she first beheld romantic Edinburgh . 
she cried , tears of wonder and delight glittering in her eyes ; and she longed for its re-appearance , when the descent of the little eminence which had favoured their view , excluded the city from their sight . 
As the travellers approached the town , Laura , whose attention was rivetted by the castle and its rocks , now frowning majestic in the shades of twilight , and by the antique piles that seemed the work of giants , scarcely bestowed a glance on the splendid line of modern buildings along which she was passing ; and she was sorry when the carriage turned from the objects of her admiration towards the hotel were Captain Montreville intended to lodge . 
Next morning , Laura , eager to renew the pleasure of the evening , proposed a walk ; not without some dread of encountering the crowd which she expected to find in such a city . 
At the season of the year , however , when Laura reached Edinburgh , she had little cause for apprehension . 
The noble streets through which she passed had the appearance of being depopulated by pestilence . 
The few well-dressed people whom she saw , stared upon her with such oppressive curiosity , as gave the uninitiated Laura a serious uneasiness . 
At first she thought that some peculiarity in her dress occasioned this embarrassing scrutiny . 
But her dress was simple mourning , and its form the least conspicuous possible . 
She next imagined , that to her rather unusual stature she owed this unenviable notice ; and , with a little displeasure , she remarked to her father , that it argued a strange want of delicacy to appear to notice the peculiarities of any one 's figure ; and that , in this respect , the upper ranks seemed more destitute of politeness than their inferiors . 
Captain Montreville answered , with a smile , that he did not think it was her height which drew such attention . 
`` Well , '' said she , with great simplicity , `` I must endeavour to find food for my vanity in this notice , though it is rather against my doing so , that the women stare more tremendously than the gentlemen . '' 
As they passed the magnificent shops , the windows , gay with every variety of colour , constantly attracted Laura 's inexperienced eye ; and she asked Montreville to accompany her into one where she wished to purchase some necessary trifle . 
The shopman observing her attention fixed on a box of artificial flowers , spread them before her ; and tried to invite her to purchase , by extolling the cheapness and beauty of his goods . 
Laura owned the flowers were beautiful . 
`` But I fear , '' said she , looking compassionately at the man , `` you will never be able to sell them all . 
`` I am really sorry for that poor young man , '' said she to her father , when they left the shop . 
The next thing which drew Laura 's attention , was a stay-maker 's sign . 
said she to Montreville . 
Captain Montreville had only one female acquaintance in Edinburgh , a lady of some fashion , and hearing that she was come to town to remain till after the races , he that forenoon carried Laura to wait upon her . 
Laura regretted it too ; but utterly ignorant of the time which must elapse between a fashionable invitation and the consequent visit , she could not help wondering whether the lady was really engaged for each of the four daily meals of two succeeding days . 
But nothing in its singular environs more charmed the eye of Laura than one deserted walk , where , though the noise of multitudes stole softened on the ear , scarcely a trace of human existence was visible , except the ruin of a little chapel which peeped fancifully from the ledge of a rock , and reminded her of the antick gambols of the red deer on her native hills , when , from the brink of the precipice , they look fearless into the dell below . 
From this walk , Captain Montreville conducted his daughter to the top of the fantastic mountain that adorns the immediate neighbourhood of Edinburgh , and triumphantly demanded whether she had ever seen such a prospect ? 
But Laura was by no means disposed to let Perthshire yield the palm to Lowland scenery . 
The serpentine corn-ridges , offensive to agricultural skill ; the school , with its well frequented Gean-tree ; the bright green clover fields , seen at intervals through the oak coppice ; the church , half hid by its venerable ash trees ; the feathery birch , trembling in the breath of evening ; the smoking hamlet , its soft colours blending with those of the rocks that sheltered it ; the rill , dashing with fairy anger in the channel which its winter fury had furrowed -- these were the simple objects which had charms for Laura , not to be rivalled by neat enclosures and whitened villas . 
Yet the scenes before her were delightful , and had not Captain Montreville 's appeal recalled the comparison , she would , in the pleasure which they excited , have forgotten the less splendid beauties of Glenalbert . 
Laura sent a longing look towards it , as it wound amid woods and villages and gentle swells , and was lost to the eye in a country which smiled rich and inviting from afar . 
She turned her eyes where the Forth is lost in the boundless ocean , and sighed as she thought of the perils and hardships of them who `` go down to the sea in ships . '' 
Montreville , unwilling to subject her to the inconveniencies of a voyage , had proposed to continue his journey by land , and Laura herself could not think without reluctance of tempting the faithless deep . 
The scenery , too , which a journey promised to present , glowed in her fervid imagination with more than nature 's beauty . 
Yet feeling the necessity of rigid economy , and determined not to permit her too indulgent parent to consult her accommodation at the expence of his prudence , it was she who persuaded Montreville to prefer a passage by sea , as the mode of conveyance best suited to his finances . 
The weather was fine , and Laura remained all day upon deck , amused with the novelty of her situation . 
Till she left her native solitude , she had never even seen the sea , except , when from a mountain top , it seemed far off to mingle with the sky ; and to her , the majestic Forth , as it widened into an estuary , seemed itself a `` world of waters . '' 
But when on one side the land receded from the view , when the great deep lay before her , Laura looked upon it for a moment , and shuddering , turned away . 
`` It is too mournful , '' said she to her father -- `` Were there but one spot , however small , however dimly described , which fancy might people with beings like ourselves , I could look with pleasure on the gulf between -- but here there is no resting place . 
Compared with the boundless expanse of waters , the little bark in which she was floating seemed `` diminished to a point ; '' and Laura raising her eyes to the stars , that were beginning to glimmer through the twilight , thought that such a speck was the wide world itself , amid the immeasurable space in which it rolled . 
This was Laura 's hour of prayer , and far less inviting circumstances can recal us to the acts of a settled habit . 
Laura listened with something like dismay , to the mingled discord that now burst upon her ear . 
When they were seated in the coach which was to convey them from the quay , Laura begged her father to prevail on the driver to wait till the unusual concourse of carts and sledges should pass , and heard with astonishment that the delay would be vain . 
At last they arrived at the inn where Captain Montreville intended to remain till he could find lodgings ; and , to Laura 's great surprise , they completed their journey without being jostled by any carriages , or overturned by any waggoner -- for ought she knew , without running over any children . 
Being shown into a front parlour , Laura seated herself at a window , to contemplate the busy multitudes that thronged the street : and she could not help contrasting their number and appearance with those of the inhabitants of Edinburgh . 
Among all the varieties of feature that passed before her , Laura saw not one familiar countenance ; and she involuntarily pressed closer to her father , while she thought , that among these myriads she should , but for him , be alone . 
They consisted of a parlour , two bedchambers , and a small room , or rather closet , which Laura immediately appropriated as her painting-room . 
Here she found amusement in arranging the materials of her art , while Captain Montreville walked to the west end of the town , to confer with his agent on the unfortunate cause of his visit to London . 
He was absent for some hours ; and Laura , utterly ignorant of the length of his walk , and of its difficulties to one who had not seen the metropolis for twenty years , began to be uneasy at his stay . 
Laura took this opportunity to write to Mrs Douglas a particular account of her travels . 
She mentioned with affectionate interest some of her few acquaintances at Glenalbert , and inquired for all the individuals of Mrs Douglas 's family ; but the name of Hargrave did not once occur in her letter , though nothing could exceed her curiosity to know how the Colonel had borne her departure , of which , afraid of his vehemence , she had , at their last interview , purposely avoided to inform him . 
Having finished her letter , Laura , that she might not appear to repress civility , availed herself of her landlady 's invitation to `` come now and them , '' as she expressed it , `` to have a chat ; '' and descended to the parlour below . 
On perceiving that Mrs Dawkins was busily arranging the tea equipage , with an air that showed she expected company , Laura would have retreated , but her hostess would not suffer her to go . 
`` No , no , Miss , '' said she , `` I expect nobody but my daughter Kate , as is married to Mr Jones the haberdasher ; and you must n't go , for she can tell you all about Scotland ; and it is but natural to think that you 'd like to hear about your own country , now when you 're in a foreign land , as a body may say . '' 
The good woman had judged well in the bribe she offered to her guest , who immediately consented to join her party ; and who , perceiving that Mrs Dawkins was industriously spreading innumerable slices of bread and butter , courteously offered to share her toils . 
`` That was very unfortunate , '' said Laura . 
`` That was hard , indeed , '' said Laura . 
To all this family history , Laura listened with great patience , wondering , however , what could induce the narrator to take so much trouble for the information of a stranger . 
She had , however , a book in her hand , on which , after exchanging compliments with Laura , she cast a languishing look , and said , `` I have been paying a watery tribute to the sorrows of my fair name-sake . '' 
Then pointing out the title-page to Laura , she added , `` You , I suppose , have often done so . '' 
It was the tragedy of The Minister , and Laura , reading the name aloud , said , she was not acquainted with it . 
`` This kind of energy , '' said Laura , with a smile , `` has at least the merit of being very generally attainable . '' 
She had , therefore , recourse to her book , and with great variety of grimace , read aloud one of Casimir 's impassioned , or , as Laura thought , frantic speeches . 
The curious contrast of the reader 's manner , with her appearance , of the affected sentimentality of her air , with the robust vulgarity of her figure , struck Laura as so irresistibly ludicrous , that , though of all young ladies , she was the least addicted to tittering , her politeness would have been fairly defeated in the struggle , had it not been reinforced by the entrance of Mr and Mrs Jones . 
Laura was pleased with the cordiality with which Mr Jones shook his mother-in-law by the hand , saying , `` Well , Mother , I 's brought you Kate pure and hearty again , and the little fellow is fine and well , tho ' f he be too young to come a wisiting . '' 
As soon as the commotion occasioned by their entrance was over , and Laura formally made acquainted with the lady , Mrs Dawkins began , `` I hopes , Kate , you ha ` nt forgot how to tell about your jaunt to Scotland ; for this here young lady staid tea just o ' purpose to hear it . '' 
`` Pray Miss , '' added she , turning to Laura , `` was you ever in Glasgow ? '' 
`` Never , '' said Laura ; `` I have heard that it is a fine city . '' 
`` That was certainly an excellent plan , '' said Laura . 
`` Certainly , '' said Laura , at the pause which was made to take breath , and receive approbation . 
Mrs Jones paused to give Laura time for the expression of her pity ; but she remained silent , and Mrs Jones resumed : `` Well , they brought us a loaf as old as St Paul 's , and some good enough butter ; so thinks I , I 'll make us some good warm toast ; for I loves to make the best of a bad bargain . 
Miss Julia disdained reply ; but turning to our heroine , she addressed her in a tone so amusingly sentimental , that Laura feared to listen to the purport of her speech , lest the manner and the matter united should prove too much for her gravity ; and rising , she apologized for retiring , by saying , that she heard her father stir , and that she must attend him . 
The little appearances of discomfort , however , which imperceptibly lower the spirits of others , had generally an opposite effect upon those of Laura . 
Attentive to the comfort of every human being who approached her , she was always the first to discover the existence and cause of the `` petty miseries of life ; '' -- but , accustomed to consider them merely as calls to exertion , they made not the slightest impression on her spirits or temper . 
The moment she cast her eyes upon her father , leaning on a table , where stood a pair of candles that but half-lighted the room ; and on the chimney , where faded fennel occupied the place of a fire , she perceived that all her efforts would be necessary to produce any thing like comfort . 
She began her operations , by enticing her father out of the large vacant room , into the small one , where she intended to work . 
Here she prepared his coffee , gave him an account of the party below stairs , read to him her letter to Mrs Douglas , and did and said every thing she could imagine to amuse him . 
When the efforts to entertain are entirely on one side , it is scarcely in human nature to continue them ; and Laura was beginning to feel very blank , when it luckily occurred to her , that she had brought her little chess-board from Glenalbert . 
Away she flew , and in triumph produced this infallible resort . 
Captain Montreville had more skill , Laura more resource ; and she defended herself long and keenly . 
At last she was within a move of being check-mated . 
Laura saw it , and eagerly extended her hand to the piece ; but recollecting that there is something in the pride of man 's nature which abhors to be beaten at chess by a lady , she suddenly desisted ; and , sweeping her lily arm across the board , `` Nay , now , '' she cried , with a look of ineffable good nature , `` if you were to complete my defeat after all my hair-breadth ` scapes , you could not be so unreasonable as to expect that I should keep my temper . '' 
By the help of this auxiliary , the evening passed pleasantly away ; and , before another came , Laura had provided for it the cheap luxury of some books from a circulating library . 
He fatigued himself and Laura in vain , with conjecturing the cause of this silence . 
`` But even if Mr Baynard should have no document to produce , '' continued Captain Montreville , `` may I not hope that you will instruct Mr Williams to examine , whether there are not in Mr Warren 's books , traces of the agreement for an annuity of L. 100 , in the name of Laura Montreville ? '' 
`` Laura Montreville , thought he , an object of sympathy to such a thing as thou ! '' 
He found Laura , too , in high spirits . 
She had just given the finishing touches to a picture on which she had been most busily employed ever since her arrival in London . 
She had studied the composition , till her head ached with intensity of thought . 
She had laboured the finishing with care unspeakable ; and she now only waited till her work could with safety be moved , to try the success of her project for the attainment of wealth . 
Of this success she scarcely entertained a doubt . 
She was sensible , indeed , that the picture had many faults , but not so many as that on which Mrs Douglas 's visitor had fixed so high a price . 
Her father , however , had noticed it , and Laura had tried to alter the head , but the Captain declared she had spoiled it . 
Laura thought so herself ; and , after sketching a hundred regularly handsome countenances , could be satisfied with none that bore not some affinity to her only standard of manly beauty . 
To add to the pleasure with which Laura surveyed the completion of her labours , she had that day received a letter from Mrs Douglas , in which mention was made of Hargrave . 
In her first letters to Laura , Mrs Douglas had entirely avoided this subject . 
Almost a month Laura had waited , with sickening impatience , for some hint from which she might gather intelligence of Hargrave 's motions -- in vain . 
Laura at last ventured to add , to one of her letters , a postscript , in which , without naming the Colonel , she inquired whether the -- regiment was still at Perth . 
She blushed as she glanced over this postscript . 
She thought it had an air of contrivance and design . 
She was half tempted to destroy the letter ; but she could not prevail on herself to make a more direct inquiry ; and to forbear making any was almost impossible . 
An answer had this day arrived ; and Laura read no part of it with such interest , as that which , with seeming carelessness , informed her that the Colonel had been several times at the parsonage : and that Mrs Douglas understood from report , that he was soon to visit London . 
Again and again did Laura read this passage , and ponder every word of it with care . 
I am playing the fool , said she to herself , and laid the letter aside ; took it up again to ascertain some particular expression , and again read the paragraph which spoke of Hargrave , and again paused upon his name . 
Laura did as she was desired ; but when she reached the sentence which began with the name of Hargrave , she blushed , hesitated for a moment , and then , passing it over , began the next paragraph . 
`` It is very strange , '' said the Captain , when Laura had concluded , `` that Mrs Douglas never mentions Hargrave , when she knows what an interest I take in him . '' 
Laura coloured crimson , but remained silent . 
This was a question for which Laura could find no evasion short of actual deceit ; and , with an effort far more painful than that from which her little artifice had saved her , her lovely face and neck glowing with confusion , she said : `` She does mention -- only I -- I. Please to read it yourself ; '' and she pointed it out to her father , who , prepared by her hesitation to expect something very particular , was surprised to find the passage so entirely unimportant . 
`` Why , Laura , '' said he , `` what was there to prevent you from reading this ? '' 
To this question Laura could make no reply ; and the Captain , after gazing on her for some moments in vain hope of an explanation , dismissed the subject , saying , with a shrug of his shoulders , `` Well well -- women are creatures I do n't pretend to understand . '' 
Laura had often and deeply reflected upon the propriety of confiding to her father her engagement with Hargrave . 
Vague as it was , she thought a parent had an indisputable right to be informed of it . 
Her promise too had been conditional , and what judge so proper as her father to watch over the fulfilment of its conditions ? 
What judge so proper as her father to examine the character , and to inspect the conduct , of the man who might one day become her husband ? 
But , amidst all the train of delightful visions which this thought conjured up , Laura felt that Hargrave 's conduct had been such as she could not endure that her father should remember against his future son . 
Before they could possibly meet , her arguments , or her entreaties , might have so far prevailed over the subsiding passions of her father , as to dissuade him from a fashionable vindication of her honour . 
But what was to restore her lover to his present rank in the Captain 's regard ? 
Without mention of that insult , her tale must be almost unintelligible ; and she was conscious that , if she entered on the subject at all , her father 's tenderness , or his authority , might unlock every secret of her breast . 
The time when her engagement could produce any consequence was distant . 
Ere it arrived , something unforeseen might possibly remove her difficulties ; or , at the worst , she hoped that , before she permitted her father to weigh the fault of Hargrave , she should be able to balance against it the exemplary propriety of his after conduct . 
She was not just satisfied with this reasoning ; but weaker considerations can dissuade us from what we are strongly disinclined to do ; and to unveiling her own partiality , or the unworthiness of its object , Laura 's disinclination was extreme . 
She determined therefore to put off the evil hour ; and withdrew her father 's attention from the subject of the letter , by inquiring whether he had seen Warren , and whether he had settled his business satisfactorily ? 
The Captain replied , that though it was not absolutely settled , he hoped it was now in a fair way of being so ; and informed her of Warren 's promise . 
inquired Laura . 
said Laura , `` that we may not return home without seeing at least one of the curiosities of London . '' 
The next day , as Captain Montreville sat reading aloud to his daughter , who was busy with her needle , Mr Warren was announced . 
Laura , who concluded that he had business with her father , rose to retire ; but her visitor , intercepting her , took both her hands , saying , `` Pray , Ma'am , do n't let me frighten you away . '' 
With a constitutional dislike to familiarity , Laura coolly disengaged herself , and left the room without uttering a syllable ; but not before Warren had seen enough of her to determine , that , if possible , he should see her again . 
He was struck with her extraordinary beauty , which was heightened by the little hectic his forwardness had called to her cheek ; and he prolonged his visit to an unfashionable length , in the hope of her return . 
When it was absolutely necessary to conclude his visit , Mr Warren begged permission to repeat it , that he might acquaint Captain Montreville with the success of his agent ; secretly hoping , that Laura would another time be less inaccessible . 
Laura meanwhile thought his visit would never have an end . 
Having wandered into every room to which she had access , and found rest in none of them , she concluded , rather rashly , that she should find more comfort in the one from which his presence excluded her . 
That disease of the mind in which by eager anticipation of the future many are unfitted for present enjoyment , was new to the active spirit of Laura . 
The happiness of her life , -LRB- and spite of the caprices of her mother , it had , upon the whole , been a happy one -RRB- , had chiefly arisen from a constant succession of regular , but varied pursuits . 
Laura , therefore , had scarcely ever known what it was to long for the morrow ; but on this day , the morrow was anticipated with wishful solicitude , -- a solicitude which banished from her mind even the thoughts of Hargrave . 
Never did youthful bridegroom look forward to his nuptial hour with more ardour , than did Laura to that which was to begin the realization of her prospects of wealth and independence . 
The next day was to be devoted to the sale of her picture . 
Her father was on that day to visit Mr Baynard at Richmond , whither he had been removed for the benefit of a purer air ; and she hoped on his return , to surprize her beloved parent with an unlooked-for treasure . 
She imagined the satisfaction with which she should spread before him her newly acquired riches , -- the pleasure with which she would listen to his praises of her diligence ; -- above all , her fancy dwelt on the delight which she should feel in relieving her father from the pecuniary embarrassment , in which she knew him to be involved by a residence in London so much longer than he had been prepared to expect . 
That she might add to her intended gift the pleasure of surprize , she was resolved not to mention her plan for to-morrow ; and with such objects in contemplation , how could she rest , -- of what other subject could she speak ? 
She tried to banish it from her mind , that she might not be wholly unentertaining to her father , who , on her account , usually spent his evenings at home . 
But the task of amusing was so laborious , that she was glad to receive in it even the humble assistance of Miss Julia Dawkins . 
This young lady had thought it incumbent on her to assault our heroine with a most violent friendship ; a sentiment which often made her sufficiently impertinent , though it was a little kept in check by the calm good sense and natural reserve of Laura . 
The preposterous affectation of Julia sometimes provoked the smiles , but more frequently the pity of Laura ; for her real good nature could find no pleasure in seeing human beings make themselves ridiculous , and she applied to the cure of Miss Dawkins 's foibles , the ingenuity which many would have employed to extract amusement from them . 
This afternoon her studies had changed their direction , as Laura instantly guessed by the lively air with which she entered the room , saying that she had brought her netting , and would sit with her for an hour . 
`` But do , my dear , '' added she , `` first show me the picture you have been so busy with ; Mamma says it is beautiful , for she peoped in at it the other day . '' 
It must be confessed , that Laura had no high opinion of Miss Dawkins 's skill in painting ; but she remembered Moliere 's old woman , and went with great good will to bring her performance . 
cried Laura , starting back aghast . 
The astonishment of Laura now gave way to laughter , while she said , `` Really Miss Dawkins you must have a strange idea of Tom Jones , or I a very extraordinary one of Leonidas . '' 
repeated Laura , to whom the name was as new as that of the Spartan was to her companion . 
Miss Julia again declared , that the picture was charming , and that Leontine , as she was pleased to call him , was divinely handsome ; but having newly replenished her otherwise empty head with Fielding 's novel , she could talk of nothing else ; and turning to Laura said , `` But why were you so offended , that I compared your Leontine to Tom Jones ? 
`` Not particularly so , '' said Laura . 
`` No , indeed , '' said Laura , with most unusual energy ; for her thoughts almost unconsciously turned to one whose character she found no pleasure in associating with that of Fielding 's hero . 
`` Because , '' answered Laura , `` I could not admire in a lover qualities which would be odious in a husband . '' 
`` The term is a little strong , '' replied Laura ; `` but he certainly would not make a pleasant yoke-fellow . 
turning to her father . 
`` I think , '' said Laura , `` he is indebted for much of the toleration which he receives , to a comparison with the despicable Blifil . '' 
`` I shall not dispute that point with you just now , '' replied Laura , `` though my opinion differs materially from yours ; but Tom Jones 's warmth of heart and generosity do not appear to me of that kind which qualify a man for adorning domestic life . 
`` The quiet domestic generosity which is of daily use , '' replied Laura , `` is happily not confined to those who have money to bestow ; -- but may appear in any of a thousand little acts of self-denial . '' 
`` If I recollect right , '' said Laura , smiling at the oddity of Julia 's phrases , `` he broke that resolution ; and I fancy the merely resolving to do right , is a degree of virtue , to which even the most profligate attain many times in their lives . '' 
`` No , '' said Captain Montreville , `` Sir Charles Grandison would have suited Laura infinitely better . '' 
`` Oh no , papa , '' said Laura , laughing ; `` if two such formal personages as Sir Charles and I had met , I am afraid we should never have had the honour of each other 's acquaintance . '' 
`` Really , '' said Laura , when a pause permitted her to speak , `` my acquaintance with these accomplished persons is so limited that I can scarcely venture to decide ; but , I believe , I prefer the hero of Miss Porter 's new publication -- Thaddeus of Warsaw . 
Miss Dawkins had never read the book , and Laura applied to her father for a confirmation of her opinion . 
Laura followed her down stairs , to ask from Mrs Dawkins the address of some picture-dealer , to whom she might dispose of her performance . 
Mrs Dawkins said she knew of no such person ; but directed Laura to a print-shop , the master of which was her acquaintance , where she might get the intelligence she wanted . 
On the following morning , as soon as Captain Montreville had set out for Richmond , his daughter , sending for a hackney coach , departed on the most interesting business she had ever undertaken . 
Her heart fluttered with expectation -- her step was buoyant with hope , and she sprung into the carriage with the lightness of a sylph . 
Stopping at the shop which her landlady recommended , she was there directed to several of the professional people for whom she was inquiring , and she proceeded to the habitation of the nearest . 
As she entered the house , Laura changed colour , and her breath came quick . 
She stopped a moment to recover herself , and then followed her conductor into the presence of the connoisseur . 
Laura modestly undeceived him , saying , that she had brought in the carriage which waited for her , a picture which she wished to dispose of . 
This statement instantly put to flight the servility of her hearer ; who , with completely recovered consequence , inquired the name of the artist ; and being answered , that the picture was not the work of a professional man , wrinkled his nose into an expression of ineffable contempt , and said -- `` I make it a rule never to buy any of these things -- they are generally such vile daubs . 
However to oblige so pretty a lady , '' added he , -LRB- softening his contumelious aspect into a leer -RRB- , `` I may look at the thing , and if it is at all tolerable '' -- `` There is no occasion to give you that trouble , '' said Laura , turning away with an air which again half convinced the man that she must be a person of consequence . 
He muttered something of `` thinking it no trouble ; '' to which she gave no attention , but hastened to her carriage , and ordered the coachman to drive to the show-room of an Italian . 
Laura did not give him time to fall into the mistake of the other , but instantly opened her business ; and Mr Sonini was obligingly running himself to lift the picture from the carriage , when it was brought in by Mrs Dawkins ' maid , whom Laura had requested to attend her . 
The hopes of Laura rose high at these encouraging words ; but suffered instantaneous depression , when he continued , with a shake of his head , `` but 't is too new -- quite moderne -- painted in dis contri . 
Me sorry , '' added he , reading Laura 's look of disappointment , `` me sorry displease such bell angela ; but can not buy . '' 
`` I am sorry for it , '' said Laura , and , sighing heavily , she courtesied and withdrew . 
Her next attempt was upon a little pert-looking man , in a foreign dress , and spectacles . 
At this proposal , the blood mounted to the cheeks of Laura ; and she raised her eyes to examine whether the proposer really had the confidence to look her in the face . 
But finding his eye steadily fixed on her , she transferred her suspicious from the honesty of the bidder to the merits of her piece , and mildly answering , `` I shall not , I believe , be disposed to part with it at that price , '' she motioned to the servent to carry it back to the coach . 
One trial still remained ; and Laura ordered her carriage to an obscure street in the city . 
She was very politely received by Mr Collins , -- a young man who had himself been an artist ; but whom bad health had obliged to relinquish a profession which he loved . 
The prospect which the Exhibition held forth , was far to distant to meet the present exigency ; for Laura well know that her father would find almost immediate occasion for the price of her labours ; and with a heavy sigh she returned to her carriage . 
Still , however , she determined to make one effort more , and returned to inquire of the printseller , whether he knew any other person to whom she could apply ? 
But observing the expression of blank disappointment which overcast her face , he offered , if she would trust him with the picture , to place it where it would be seen by his customers , and expressed a belief that some of them might purchase it . 
Laura thankfully accepted the offer , and after depositing with him her treasure , which had lost much of its value in her eyes , and naming the price she expected , she returned home ; making on her way as many sombrous reflections on the vanity and uncertainty of all sublunary pursuits , as ever were made by any young lady in her eighteenth year . 
She had need , however , of all her firmness , and of all the elation of conscious self-control , to resist the contagious depression of countenance and manner with which Captain Montreville accosted her . 
Harassed by his repeated disappointments , and unendowed by nature with the unbending spirit that rises in disaster , he now declared to Laura his resolution to remain in London only till a person was fixed upon for the management of Mr Baynard 's affairs -- to lay before him the circumstances of his case -- and then to return to Scotland , and trust to a correspondence for concluding the business . 
At this moment nothing could have been further from Laura 's wish than to quit London , She was unwilling to forfeit her remaining hope that her picture might find a purchaser , and a still stronger interest bound her to the place which was so soon to be the residence of Hargrave . 
Captain Montreville retired early ; and Laura , wearied out with the toils and the disappointments of the day , gladly resigned herself to the peaceful sleep of innocence . 
Laura was indebted partly to nature , but more to her own exertions , for that happy elasticity of spirit which easily casts off lighter evil , while it readily seizes , and fully enjoys , pleasure of moderate intensity , and of frequent attainment . 
With recovered spirits , and reviving hopes , Laura awoke to joys which the worldly know not , -- the joys of pious gratitude -- of devout contemplation -- of useful employment ; and so far was her persevering spirit from failing under the disappointments of the preceding day , that she determined to begin a new picture the moment she was settled at Glenalbert , to compose it with more care , and finish it with greater accuracy , than the former ; and to try its fate at the Exhibition . 
She did not think the season of her father 's depression a fit one for relating her mortifying adventures , and she found means to amuse him with other topics till he left her , with an intention to call in Portland Street . 
`` I am sorry , '' said Laura , `` that I deprived her Ladyship of the pleasure of your company . '' 
said Laura . 
Laura gravely surveyed her own face in an opposite looking-glass , and then , with the nonchalance of one who talks of the most indifferent thing in nature , replied , -- `` Yes , I think my features are uncommonly regular . '' 
`` I should suppose , '' said Laura , `` from the subject you have chosen to amuse me , that the charm , whatever it is , has no great connection with intellect . '' 
Warren hesitated ; for he began to have some suspicions that she was laughing at him , in spite of the immoveable gravity of her countenance . 
said Laura ; an arch smile beginning to dimple her cheek . 
`` But some gentlemen , '' said Laura , `` have the happy talent of saying old things so well , that the want of novelty is not felt . '' 
The moment the words had passed her lips , she perceived , by the gracious smile which they produced , that Mr Warren had applied them to himself ; and the thought of being guilty of such egregious flattery , brought the colour to her face . 
Any explanation , however , would have been actual rudeness ; and while the consciousness of her involuntary duplicity kept her silent , her companion enjoyed her confusion ; which , together with the compliment , he interpreted in a way most satisfactory to his vanity , and thankfully repaid with a torrent of praises in his very best style . 
So little value did Laura affix to his commendations , that she was beginning to find extreme difficulty in suppressing a yawn , when it occurred to her that it might save her father a journey to Portland Street , if she could detain Mr Warren till he arrived . 
Having made an observation , which has been more frequently made than profited by , that most people prefer talking to listening , she engaged her companion in a description of some of the fashionable places of public resort , none of which she had seen ; in which he acquitted himself so much to his own satisfaction , that , before they separated , he was convinced that Laura was one of the most penetrating judicious women of his acquaintance ; and having before remarked , that , with the help of a little rouge , and a fashionable riding-habit , she would look better in a curricle than any woman in London , he resolved , that if it depended on him , her residence in town should not be a short one . 
Soon after the Captain arrived , he took his leave , having no new intelligence to communicate , nor indeed any other purpose in his visit , except that which had been served by his interview with Laura . 
As soon as he was gone , Laura went down stairs to beg that Miss Dawkins would accompany her after dinner to the print-shop , to inquire what had been the fate of her picture . 
Almost every evening did Laura , with Mrs Dawkins or her daughter for an escort , direct her steps to the print-shop , and return from her fruitless walk with fainter and fainter hopes . 
While handing the ladies into the carriage , De Courcy again offered his attendance , which Laura , gracefully thanking him for his attentions , again declined ; and they drove off just as he was about to inquire where they chose to be set down . 
Now , whether it was that Laura was offended at De Courcy 's inspection of her face , or whether she saw any thing disagreeable in his ; whether it was that her pride disdained lodgings in Holborn , or that she desired not to be recognized by one who had met with her in such a situation , certain it is , that she chose the moment when that gentleman was placing her voluble companion in the coach , to give the coachman her directions , in sounds that escaped the ears of De Courcy . 
After the ladies had retired for the night , De Courcy meditated for full five minutes on the descent from Laura Montreville 's forehead to her nose , and bestowed a proportionable degree of consideration upon other important lines in her physiognomy ; but it must be confessed , that by the time he arrived at the dimple in her left cheek , he had forgotten both Lavater and his opinions , and that his recollection of her mouth was somewhat confused by that of her parting smile , which he more than once declared aloud to himself was `` heavenly . '' 
Desirous to oblige a person of De Courcy 's appearance , Wilkins immediately related all that he knew of Laura , either from his own observation , or from the report of her loquacious landlady ; and perceiving that he was listened to with attention , he proceeded further to detail his conjectures . 
I knew by the noble arching of her forehead , that she was above all vulgar prejudice : and he admired Laura the more for being a favourable instance of his own penetration , -- a feeling so natural , that it lessens even our enmity to the wicked , when we ourselves have predicted their vices . 
It must be owned , that De Courcy was a little hasty in his judgment of Laura 's worth ; but the sight of such a face as hers , gives great speed to a young man 's decision upon female character . 
Never had he , either as a physiognomist or as a man , admired any woman so much as he did Laura ; yet her charms were no longer his only , or even his chief , magnet of attraction towards the Montrevilles . 
Never before had any assemblage of features possessed such power over him , but De Courcy 's was not a heart on which mere beauty could make any very permanent impression ; and , to the eternal disgrace of his gallantry , it must be confessed , that he scarcely longed more for a second interview with Laura , than he did for an opportunity of paying some grateful civilities to the man who twenty years before , had good-naturedly forgone the society of his equals in age , to sing ballads and make paper-kites for little Montague . 
Whatever member of the family occupied most of his thoughts , certain it is , that he spoke much more that evening of Captain Montreville than of his daughter , until the arrival of the painting afforded him occasion to enlarge on her genius , industry , and freedom from vulgar prejudice . 
Meanwhile the ungrateful Laura had never , from the hour in which they met , bestowed one thought upon her champion . 
The blackness of his eyes , and the whiteness of his teeth , had entirely escaped her observation ; and , even if she had been asked whether he was tall or short , she could scarcely have given a satisfactory reply . 
For this extraordinary stupidity , the only excuse is , that her heart was already occupied , the reader knows how , and that her thoughts were engrossed by an intention which her father had mentioned , of borrowing money upon his half-pay . 
Though Laura had never known affluence , she was equally a stranger to all the shames , the distresses , and embarrassments of a debtor ; and the thoughts of borrowing what she could not hope by any economy to repay , gave to her upright mind the most cutting uneasiness . 
Laura turned a despairing wish towards her picture , lamenting that she had ever formed her presumptuous scheme , and hating herself for having , by her presence , increased the perplexities of her father . 
She prevailed on him , however , to defer borrowing the money till the following day ; and once more , accompanied by Julia , bent her almost hopeless steps towards the print-shop . 
Laura spoke not , -- she had not indeed the power to speak ; -- but she raired her eyes with a look that intelligibly said , `` Blessed Father ! 
Recollecting herself , she thanked Wilkins , liberally rewarded him for his trouble , and then taking her companion by the arm , she hastened homewards . 
The sight of Laura 's wealth powerfully affected the mind of Miss Dawkins , and she formed an immediate resolution , to grow rich by similar means . 
Upon this judicious plan , she harangued with great volubility to Laura , who , buried in her own reflections , walked silently on , unconscious even of the presence of her loquacious companion . 
As she approached her home , she began to frame a little speech , with which she meant to present her treasure to her father ; and , on entering the house , she flew with a beating heart to find him . 
She laid her wealth upon his knee . 
`` My dearest father , '' she began , `` the picture '' -- -- and she fell upon his neck and burst into tears . 
But though Laura had learnt from frequent experience , how to check the feelings of disappointment , to pleasure such as she now felt she was new , and she could not controul its emotions . 
So far was she , however , from thinking that sensibility was bestowed merely for an ornament , -LRB- an opinion which many fair ladies appear to entertain -RRB- , that the expression of it was always with her an occasion of shame . 
Unable at this moment to contain herself , she burst from her father 's embrace , and hiding herself in her chamber , poured forth a fervent thanks giving to Him who `` feedeth the ravens when they cry to him . '' 
`` This money is your 's my love , '' said Captain Montreville to her when she returned to the parlour . 
The face and neck of Laura flushed crimson . 
Her whole soul revolted at the thought of her father 's feeling himself a pensioner on her bounty . 
`` No , indeed , Sir , '' she replied with energy , `` it is your 's -- it always was intended for you . 
`` No , Papa , '' said Laura , `` so liberal has your kindness been to me , that I can not at this moment name a single want . '' 
`` Wishes , then , you surely have , '' said the Captain , still pressing the money upon her ; `` and let the first-fruits of your industry supply them . '' 
`` I have no wishes , '' said Laura ; `` none at least which money can gratify : -- and when I have , '' added she , with an affectionate smile , `` let their gratification come from you , that its pleasure may be doubled to me . '' 
No creature could less value money for its own sake than did Laura . 
All her wealth , the fruit of so much labour and anxiety , would not have purchased the attire of a fashionable lady for one evening . 
Yet be it known to all who , from similar circumstances , feel entitled to fancy themselves miserable , and thus -LRB- if they live with beings of common humanity -RRB- make others really so , that no woman ever passed an evening in more heartfelt content , than Laura did that which our history is now recording . 
She did , indeed , possess that which , next to the overflowings of a pious heart , confers the purest happiness on this side Heaven . 
She felt that she was USEFUL . 
`` And who knows , '' said De Courcy , turning to Laura with a smile , `` who knows what cause I may find to rue that Miss Montreville is past the age when I might have repaid her father 's kindness by assiduities to her doll ? '' 
`` That return , '' said Laura , colouring , as she recollected her late champion , `` would not have been quite so arduous as the one you have already made . 
Laura now explained to her father her obligation to De Courcy ; and the Captain having thanked him for his interference , the conversation took a general turn . 
Won by the happy mixture of familiarity and respect , of spirit and gentleness , which distinguished the manners of De Courcy , the Captain became cheerful , and Laura almost talkative : the conversation rose from easy to animated , from animated to gay ; and two hours had passed before any of the party was aware that one-fourth of that time was gone . 
Laura 's general reserve with strangers seemed to have forsaken her while she conversed with De Courcy . 
By character she knew him well . 
Laura had heard her lover dwell with the eloquence of gratitude upon the courage , the presence of mind , with which -LRB- while others , confounded by his danger , or fearing for their own safety , left him to perish without aid -RRB- , De Courcy had seized a fisher 's net , and , binding one end of it to a tree , the other to his body , had plunged into the water , and intercepted Hargrave , just as the stream was hurrying him to the brink of a tremendous fall . 
`` All struggle was in vain , '' had Hargrave said to the breathless Laura ; `` but for that noble fellow , that minute would have been my last , and I should have died without awakening this interest so dear to my heart . '' 
`` I wish I could see this De Courcy , '' had Laura fervently exclaimed . 
A recollection of this dialogue stole into the mind of Laura , as De Courcy was expressing an opinion which , though not a common one , coincided exactly with her own . 
For a moment she was absent and thoughtful ; but De Courcy continued the conversation , and she resumed her gaiety . 
But , in contemplating Laura 's face , he forgot the rules of the physiognomist ; and , in the interesting reserve of her manners , he found continually something to desire . 
He was assailed at once by beauty , grace , good sense , and sweetness ; and to these Laura added the singular charm of being wholly insensible to their effects upon the beholder . 
No side-glance was sent in search of admiration ; no care was taken to compose her drapery ; no look of triumph accompanied her judicious remarks ; no parade of sensibility disgraced her tenderness . 
Laura joined in the eulogium ; and , the next moment , forgot that there was such a person in existence , when she read a letter from Mrs Douglas , of which the following was a part . 
my beloved Laura , distant as I am from you , ignorant as I am of the peculiarities of your situation , I can only pray for you . 
The joyful expectation of seeing Hargrave filled for a time the heart of Laura , and left no room for other thoughts . 
She perceived that Mrs Douglas suspected Hargrave of the baseness of deliberate seduction : and , with a feeling of indignation , she collected her writing materials , and sat down to exculpate him . 
But from the dream of joy , Laura soon returned to the more habitual consideration of the line of conduct which it was fit that she should pursue . 
She saw the folly of committing her happiness to the guardianship of one whose passions were his masters ; and , while it was her daily prayer that she might not be led into temptation , her conscience revolted from trusting her conduct to the guidance , her virtue to the example , of a man whose principles were doubtful . 
For Laura 's virtue was not of that saint-errant kind that sallies forth in quest of opportunities to signalize itself , and inflames its pride by meditation on the wonders it would achieve , if placed in perilous situations . 
Distrustful of herself -- watchful to avoid occasions of falling -- she had no ambition for the dangerous glory of reforming a rake into a good husband . 
She therefore adhered to her determination , that she would not consent to a union with her lover , till , by a course of virtuous conduct he had given proof that his offence had been the sudden fault of a moment , not the deliberate purpose of a corrupted heart . 
Yet even in this mitigated view , the recollection was poison to the soul of Laura . 
The painful thought was far from new to her , that the passion of Hargrave was a tribute to her personal charms alone . 
With such a passion , even were its continuance possible , Laura felt that she could not be satisfied . 
To be the object of it degraded her in her own eyes . 
`` No , no , '' she exclaimed , covering her face with her hands , `` let me not even legally occupy only the place which the vilest might fill . 
It never occurred to Laura , that she was , as much as Hargrave , the captive of mere externals ; and that his character would never have deceived her penetration , had it been exhibited in the person of a little redhaired man , with bandy legs , who spoke broad Scotch , and smoked tobacco . 
Laura was disappointed , but not surprized ; for it was barely possible that he could have reached London on that day . 
On the succeeding one she thought it likely that he might come ; but the succeeding one was equally barren of event . 
On the third she was certain that he would arrive ; and , when breakfast was over , she seated herself in expectation at the window of the front parlour , started , if a carriage stopped , and listened to every voice that sounded from below stairs . 
Half-desirous to escape her father 's observation , half wishing that her interview with Hargrave should be without witnesses , she persuaded Captain Montreville to go and pay his respects to Mrs De Courcy . 
Unwilling to own , even to herself , the extent of her anxiety and disappointment , Laura talked to her father of his visit , with which he had been highly pleased . 
When they retired for the night , Laura returned to her conjectures on the cause of Hargrave 's delay . 
A man 's step ascended the stair ; Laura trembled and her breath came short . 
She feared to look up , and leant her face on her hand to conceal her emotion . 
The voice of her visitor made her start , and turn her head . 
Expectation had been wound up to its highest pitch , and Laura could not instantly recover herself . 
She paid her compliments with a confusion and trepidation , which Warren interpreted in a way most flattering to his vanity . 
He approached her with a look , in which ill-suppressed triumph contended with laboured condescension ; and spoke to her in a voice that seemed to say , `` Pray , endeavour to reassure yourself . '' 
But Laura was in no humour so endure his impertinence , and she seized the first opportunity to leave the room . 
From the moment this gentleman had first seen Laura , he had been determined not wilfully to expedite her departure from London ; and therefore he had casually dropped a hint to his solicitor , that , as he was already overwhelmed with a multiplicity of affairs , it was unnecessary to hasten a concern of such trivial importance ; and that he might defer inquiring into the sale of the annuity till he was at perfect leisure . 
Early secluded from society , and tormented by the temper of his wife , he had concentrated all the affections which solitude confined , and caprice rejected , upon one object : and Laura became the passion of his soul . 
The thought of leaving her destitute , of leaving her sensibility to the scorns , her beauty to the temptations of poverty , was more than he could bear , and it sometimes almost overpowered him . 
The same force of habit , joined to her improving graces and confirming worth , made Laura daily more dear to him , and he would willingly have given his life to secure her independence and happiness . 
Brooding on the obscurity in which she must remain , whom he judged worthy to adorn the highest station -- on the poverty which awaited her during his life -- on the want to which his death must consign her -- removed from his habitual occupations , and deprived of the wholesome air and exhilarating exercises to which he had been so long accustomed , he allowed his spirits to grow daily more depressed . 
While , however , Captain Montreville gave way without effort to his feelings , the more vigorous mind of Laura struggled to suppress the sorrow which she saw was contagious . 
She sometimes prevailed upon her father to seek amusement abroad , sometimes endeavoured to amuse him at home . 
She read to him , sung to him , exerted all her conversation talent to entertain him ; and , often , when all was in vain , when he would answer her by forced smiles , languid gestures , or heavy sighs , she would turn aside to wipe the tears from her eyes , then smile , and attempt her task again . 
In these labours she had now , it is true , the assistance of an intelligent companion . 
De Courcy came often ; and the Captain seemed to receive a pleasure from his visits , which even Laura 's efforts could not bestow . 
The tenderness of his child , indeed , appeared sometimes to overpower him ; for , when she was exerting herself to divert his melancholy , he would gaze upon her for a while in an agony of fondness , then suddenly desire to be left alone , and dismiss her from his presence . 
He soothed the irritated mind with respectful assiduities -- he felt for its sickly sensibility -- and , though ignorant of the cause of Montreville 's dejection , found in alleviating it a pleasure , which was more than doubled by the undisguised approbation and gratitude of Laura . 
Laura , in hopes of amusing her father , prevailed on him to accept the invitation ; and an early day was fixed for the visit . 
She was pleased with the frankness and gaiety of Harriet 's manner , and her curiosity was roused by Captain Montreville 's praises of Mrs De Courcy . 
The day arrived , and Laura prepared to accompany her father , not without trepidation at the thought of entering , for the first time in her life , a room which she expected to find full of strangers . 
When she had finished dressing , he examined her with triumph ; and thought that nothing in nature was so perfect . 
The thought was legible in his countenance , and Laura , with great simplicity , answered to it as if it had been spoken . 
`` Except to please you , '' said she , `` I wish I had been neither tall nor pretty , for then I should have been allowed to move about without notice . '' 
`` Then , too , '' thought she with a heavy sigh , `` I should have been loved for my self , and not have been perhaps forgotten . '' 
Laura was not ignorant of her own beauty , but no human being could less value the distinction . 
She was aware of the regularity of her features ; but as she never used a looking-glass , unless for the obvious purpose of arranging her dress , she was insensible of the celestial charm which expression added to her face . 
The seriousness and dignity of her manners made it difficult to address her with common-place compliment ; and she had accordingly never experienced any effect of her beauty , but one which was altogether disagreeable to her , that of attracting notice . 
To being the subject of observation , Laura retained that Caledonian dislike which once distinguished her country-women , before they were polished into that glitter which attracts the vulgar , and paid for the acquisition by losing the timidity which , like the rugo of ancient coin , adds value in the eye of taste to intrinsic worth , while it shields even baser merit from contempt . 
Laura 's courage failed her when , throwing open the door of a large room , Mrs De Courcy 's servant announced Captain and Miss Montreville . 
Mrs De Courcy 's appearance seemed to Laura very prepossessing . 
She still wore the dress of a widow ; and her countenance bore the traces of what is called a green old age ; for though the hair that shaded her commanding forehead was silver white , her dark eyes retained their brightness ; and though her complexion was pale , it glowed at times with the roses of youth . 
The expression of her face , which was serious even to solemnity , brightened with a smile of inexpressible benevolence , as she received her guests ; and , even in the difficulty with which she appeared to move , Laura found somewhat interesting . 
Her air and manners , without a tincture of fashion , spoke the gentlewoman . 
Her dress , her person , her demeanour , every thing about her seemed consistently respectable . 
Laura had pleasure in observing , that the reverence with which this old man addressed his lady , softened into affectionate solicitude to please when he attended De Courcy , who , in his turn , seemed to treat him with the most considerate gentleness . 
Mrs De Courcy behaved to Laura with distinguished politeness ; addressed her often ; endeavoured to draw forth her latent powers ; and soon made her sensible that the impression she had given , was no less favourable than that which she had received . 
The evening passed most agreeably ; and Laura was sorry when the hour of separation arrived . 
`` Well , mamma , '' continued she , when Laura was gone , `` what do you think of my brother 's beauty ? '' 
From this day Miss De Courcy frequently accompanied her brother on his visits to the Montrevilles , and Laura was a welcome guest in Audley Street . 
Between Laura and De Courcy , almost from the first hour of their acquaintance , there seemed -LRB- to use the language of romance -RRB- a sympathy of souls ; -- an expression which , if it has any meaning , must mean the facility with which simple , upright , undesigning minds become intelligible to each other . 
Even the sarcastic Harriet found , in the chaste propriety of Laura 's character , something to command respect ; and in her gentleness and warmth of heart , something to engage affection ; while , in her ideas , which solitude had slightly tinged with romance , though strong sense had preserved them from absurdity , and in her language , which sometimes rose to the very verge of poetry , she found constantly somewhat to interest and amuse . 
Meanwhile Montreville 's dejection seemed to increase ; and Laura 's health and spirits , in spite of her efforts to support them , daily declined . 
She at first conjectured that he had found it impossible to leave Scotland at the time he proposed ; but a second letter from Mrs Douglas had mentioned his departure , and repeated the assurance that , however obtained , he had information of Laura 's address , since he had undertaken to be the bearer of a letter from a neighbouring gentleman to Captain Montreville . 
She next supposed that he had stopped on the road , or quitted it on some errand of business or pleasure -- but a newspaper account of a fte champtre , at Lady Bellamer 's elegant villa at Richmond , was graced , among other fashionable names , with that of the handsome Colonel Hargrave , nephew and heir of Lord Lincourt . 
She accused herself of having given up her love , her wishes , her hopes and fears , almost her worship , to an idol ; and no sooner did this thought occur to the pious mind of Laura , than she became resigned to her loss . 
She even felt grateful -- with such gratitude as the wretch feels under the knife which amputates the morbid limb . 
Unused to let her self-reproaches pass without improvement , she resolved , by vigorous efforts , to become herself again . 
She even called in the aid of a decent pride . 
`` Shall I , '' she cried , `` who have vowed to overcome the world -- I who have called myself by that glorious name , a Christian , sink from these honours into a love-sick girl ? 
The picture was again resorted to ; but , as it afforded rather an unsocial employment , and as Laura 's company was more than ever necessary to her father , it proceeded slowly . 
To Laura , De Courcy 's behaviour , uniformly respectful and attentive , was sometimes even tender . 
But , accustomed to see love only in the impassioned looks of Hargrave , to hear its accents only in his words of fire , she did not recognize it in a new form ; and to consider De Courcy as a lover , never once entered her imagination . 
Not that he was more knowing in the mysteries of love than his daughter ; but he took it for granted that no mortal could withstand her attractions ; and he was persuaded that Laura would not withhold her heart , where she so freely expressed approbation . 
Laura had never praised Hargrave . 
She never shrunk from De Courcy 's eye , -- she never felt embarrassed by his presence , -- she treated him with the frankness of a sister ; and though she reserved her commendations for his absence , she waited only for that to bestow them with all the warmth which his own merit and his attention to her father could demand . 
The picture at last was finished , and Laura herself accompanied it to the print-shop . 
Wilkins immediately delivered to her the price , which , he said , had been for some time in his hands . 
It now occurred to Laura to ask who had been the purchaser of her work . 
said Laura surprised . 
`` I have no wish to hear it , '' said Laura , with a look which compelled the confidant to unwilling discretion ; and again thanking him for the trouble he had taken , she returned home . 
The truth was , that De Courcy had foreseen the probability of Laura 's question ; and averse to be known to her under a character that savoured of patronage and protection , had forbidden the shopkeeper to mention who had purchased the pictures . 
Again did Laura , delighted , present to her father the produce of her labours , her warm heart glowing with the joys of usefulness . 
With the fretfulness of disease , he refused to share in her satisfaction . 
`` Oh call it not hard , my dear father , '' cried Laura . 
`` It is true , '' answered Laura mildly , `` that my success depends upon taste , and that the public taste is capricious ; but some , I should hope , would never be wanting , who could value and reward the labours of industry -- you observe , '' added she with a smile , `` that I rest nothing upon genius . '' 
Laura looked at him with affectionate concern -- `` Alas ! '' 
thought she , `` if bodily disease is pitiable , how far more deplorable are its ravages on the mind . '' 
But even if her father had been in perfect health , she would not have chosen the moment of irritation for reply . 
Deeply mortified at this unexpected prohibition , she yet endeavoured to consider it as only one of the transient caprices of illness , and to find pleasure in the thought , that the hour was come when De Courcy 's daily visit would restore her father to some degree of cheerfulness . 
`` I fear , '' said Laura , looking with kind solicitude in De Courcy 's face , `` that something distressing calls you away . '' 
`` You will not return while your presence is necessary to Mr Wentworth , '' said Laura , less anxious to regain De Courcy 's society , than that he should support the character of benevolence with which her imagination had justly vested him . 
`` Your charity is mighty excursive Laura , '' said he . 
Laura , whose sweetness no captious expressions could ruffle , would have spoken to turn her father 's view to brighter prospects ; but the rising sob choked her voice , and courtesying hastily to De Courcy , she left the room . 
As he was descending the stairs , Laura , who never forgot in selfish feeling to provide for the comforts of others , followed him , to beg that when he had leisure he would write to her father . 
Laura blushed and hesitated as she made this request , not because she had in making it any selfish motive whatever , but purely because she was unused to ask favours . 
Flattered by the request , but much more by her confusion , the countenance of De Courcy glowed with pleasure . 
These words , and the tone in which they were uttered , made Laura direct a look of inquiry to the speaker 's face , where his thoughts were distinctly legible ; and she no sooner read them , than , stately and displeased , she drew back . 
`` I believe it will give my father pleasure to hear from you , Sir , '' said she , and coldly turned away . 
`` Is there no man , '' thought she , `` exempt from this despicable vanity -- from the insignificant Warren to the respectable De Courcy ? '' 
Poor Montague would fain have besought her forgiveness for his presumption in supposing it possible that she could have any pleasure in hearing of him ; but the look with which she turned from him , left him no courage to speak to her again , and he mournfully pursued his way to Audley Street . 
He was scarcely gone when Warren called , and Laura , very little disposed for his company , took shelter in her own room . 
Her father , however , suffered no inconvenience from being left alone to the task of entertaining his visitor , for Warren found means to make the conversation sufficiently interesting . 
Captain Montreville again began to make acknowledgments , but Warren , who appeared rather distressed than gratified by them , took his leave , and left the Captain to the joyful task of communicating the news to Laura . 
She listened with grateful pleasure . 
`` How much have I been to blame , '' said she , `` for allowing myself to believe that a little vanity necessarily excluded every kind and generous feeling . 
To leave London interfered indeed with his hopes of De Courcy as a lover for his daughter ; but he doubted not that the impression was already made , and that Montague would follow Laura to Scotland . 
At dinner he called for wine , a luxury in which he rarely indulged , drank to their safe arrival at Glenalbert , and obliged Laura to pledge him to the health of Warren . 
To witness her father 's cheerfulness was a pleasure which Laura had of late tasted so sparingly , that it had the most exhilarating effect upon her spirits ; and neither De Courcy nor Hargrave would have been much gratified , could they have seen the gaiety with which she supported the absence of the one , and the neglect of the other . 
Laura would have excused herself , by saying , that she could not leave her father alone ; but the Captain insisted upon her going , and declared that he would himself be of the party . 
She had therefore no apology , and , deprived of the amusement which she would have preferred , contentedly betook herself to that which was within her reach . 
She did not sit in silent contemplation of her own superiority , or of the vulgarity of her companions ; nor did she introduce topics of conversation calculated to illustrate either ; but having observed that even the most ignorant have some subject on which they can talk with ease and pleasure , and even be heard with advantage , she suffered others to lead the discourse , rightly conjecturing that they would guide it to the channel which they judged most favourable to their own powers . 
She was soon engaged with Mrs Dawkins in a dissertation on various branches of household economy , and to the eternal degradation of her character as a heroine , actually listened with interest to the means of improving the cleanliness , beauty , and comfort of her dwelling . 
Perceiving that Montreville was an Englishman , she concluded that nothing but dire necessity could have exiled him to Scotland . 
She inquired what town he lived in ; and being answered that his residence was many miles distant from any town , she held up her hands in pity and amazement . 
But when she heard that Montreville had been obliged to learn the language of the Highlands , and that it was Laura 's vernacular tongue , she burst into an exclamation of wonder . 
`` Mercy upon me , '' cried she , `` can you make that outlandish spluttering so as them savages can know what you says ? 
`` Ay , that I have , to my sorrow , '' said Mrs Jones ; and forthwith proceeded to recount her adventures , pretty nearly in the same terms as she had formerly done to Laura . 
The conversation was here interrupted by an exclamation from Mrs Dawkins , who , knowing that she had nothing new to expect in her daughter 's memoirs of her Scotish excursion , had continued to talk with Laura apart . 
she cried , `` why Kate , as sure as eggs , here 's Miss never seed a play in all her life ! '' 
Laura was desirous to go : her father made no objection ; and Mr Jones , with that feeling of good-natured self-complacency which most people have experienced , arising from the discovery that another is new to a pleasure with which he himself is familiar , offered , as he expressed it , `` to do the genteel thing , and treat her himself . '' 
The party was speedily arranged , and Laura soon found herself seated in the pit of the theatre . 
The scene was quite new to her ; for her ignorance of public places was even greater than her companions had discovered it to be . 
She was dazzled with the glare of the lights , and the brilliance of the company , and confused with the murmur of innumerable voices ; but the curtain rose , and her attention was soon confined to the stage . 
The play was the Gamester , the most domestic of our tragedies ; and , in the inimitable representation of Mrs Beverly , Laura found an illusion strong enough to absorb for the time every faculty of her soul . 
Of the actress she thought not ; but she loved and pitied Mrs Beverly with a fervour that made her insensible to the amusement which she afforded to her companions . 
Meanwhile her countenance , -- as beautiful , almost as expressive , -- followed every change in that of Mrs Siddons . 
She wept with her ; listened , started , rejoiced with her ; and when Mrs Beverly repulsed the villain Stukely , Laura 's eyes too flashed with `` heaven 's own lightnings . '' 
By the time the representation was ended , she was so much exhausted by the strength and rapidity of her emotions , that she was scarcely able to answer to the questions of `` How have you been amused ? '' 
with which her companions all at once assailed her . 
`` No , '' answered Laura . 
In the course of the two following days , Laura had sketched more than twenty heads of Mrs Siddons , besides completing the preparations for her journey to Scotland . 
On the appointed morning , Captain Montreville set out on an early visit to Portland Street , gaily telling his daughter at parting that he would return in an hour or two , with her dowery in his pocket . 
The room was hung with prints and pictures , but they partook of the same licentious character ; and Montreville shuddered , as the momentary thought darted across his mind , that it was strange that the charms of Laura had made no impression on one whose libertinism in regard to her sex was so apparent . 
He returned home , and finding the parlour empty , was leaving it to seek Laura in her painting-room , when he observed a letter lying on the table addressed to himself . 
For Laura he had indeed no fear . 
She was no less safe in her own virtue and discretion , than in the contemptuous pity with which she regarded Warren . 
This letter would put her upon her guard against leaving the house with him , which Captain Montreville now recollected that he had often solicited her to do , upon pretence of taking the air in his curricle . 
He had been long in the habit of seeking relief from every painful feeling in the tenderness of Laura , -- of finding in her enduring spirit a support to the weakness of his own ; and he now sought her in the conviction that she would either discover some advantage to be drawn from this disappointment , or lighten it to him by her affectionate sympathy . 
He knocked at her door . 
-- She did not answer . 
He called her . 
He rang the bell , and inquired whether she was below , and was answered that she had gone out with Mr Warren in his curricle two hours before . 
Mrs Dawkins , with great humanity , attended him herself , venting in whispers to the surgeon her compassion for Montreville , and her indignation against the unnatural desertion of Laura , whom she abused as a methodistical hypocrite , against whom her wrath was the stronger because she could never have suspected her . 
As soon , therefore , as the servant had disposed of Montreville , Warren mounted his curricle , which was in waiting at a little distance , and driving to Mrs Dawkins 's , informed Laura that he had been sent to her by her father , who proposed carrying her to see the British Museum , and for that purpose was waiting her arrival in Portland Street . 
Entirely unsuspicious of any design , Laura accompanied him without hesitation ; and though Portland Street appeared to her greatly more distant than she had imagined it , it was not till having taken innumerable turns , she found herself in an open road , that she began to suspect her conductor of having deceived her . 
she inquired : `` This road does not lead to Portland Street . '' 
`` Let us immediately return to the straight one then , '' said Laura . 
`` repeated Laura , with involuntary disdain . 
`` No , ` pon my soul , '' said the beau , a little alarmed by the sternness of her manner , `` I meant nothing but to have an opportunity of telling you that I am quite in love with you , -- dying for you , -- faith I am . '' 
`` You should first have ascertained , '' answered Laura , with ineffable scorn , `` whether I was likely to think the secret worth a hearing . 
The perfect composure of Laura 's look and manner -LRB- for feeling no alarm she shewed none -RRB- made Warren conclude that she was not averse to being detained ; and he thought it only necessary that he should continue to make love , to induce her quietly to submit to go on for another half mile , which would bring them to a place where he thought she would be secure . 
He began , therefore , to act the lover with all the energy he could muster ; but Laura interrupted him . 
`` It is a pity , '' said she , with a smile of calm contempt , `` to put a stop to such well-timed-gallantry , which is indeed just such as I should have expected from Mr Warren 's sense and delicacy . 
Her contumelious manner entirely undeceived her companion in regard to her sentiments ; but it had no other effect upon him , except that of adding revenge to the number of his incitements ; and perceiving that they were now at a short distance from the house whither he intended to convey her , he continued to pursue his way . 
Laura now rose from her seat , and seizing the reins with a force that made the horses rear , she coolly chose that moment to spring from the curricle ; and walked back towards the town , leaving her inamorato in the utmost astonishment at her self-possession , as well as rage at her disdainful treatment . 
She proceeded till she came to a decent-looking shop , where she entered ; and , begging permission to sit down , dispatched one of the shop-boys in search of a hackney-coach . 
A carriage was soon procured , and Laura , concluding that her father , tired of waiting for her , must have left Portland Street , desired to be driven directly home . 
As she entered the house , she was met by Mrs Dawkins . 
`` So Miss , '' cried she , `` you have made a fine spot of work o n't . 
cried Laura , turning as pale as death , `` what is it you mean ? 
Laura turned sick to death . 
Cold drops stood upon her forehead ; and she shook in every limb . 
She made an instinctive attempt to ascend the stair ; but her strength failed her , and she sunk upon the steps . 
The sight of her agony changed in a moment Mrs Dawkins 's indignation into pity . 
`` Do n't take on so , Miss , '' said she , `` to be sure you did n't mean it . 
cried Laura , reviving at once in the sudden dread that such incautious news would destroy her father . 
`` Stay , '' said she , pressing with one hand her bursting forehead , while with the other she detained Mrs Dawkins . 
I can not think ; '' and leaning her head on Mrs Dawkins ' shoulder , she burst into an agony of tears . 
These salutary tears restored her recollection , and she inquired whether the surgeon , of whom Mrs Dawkins had spoken , was still in the house . 
At last she received the wished-for summons . 
She entered ; she sprang towards the bed . 
cried Montreville , and he clasped her to his bosom , and sobbed aloud . 
When he was able to speak , `` Oh Laura , '' said he , `` tell me again that you are safe , and say by what miracle , by what unheard-of mercy , you have escaped . '' 
`` Compose yourself , my dearest father , for Heaven 's sake , '' cried Laura . 
She then briefly related the affair as it had appeared to her , suppressing Warren 's rhapsodies , from the fear of irritating her father ; and he , perceiving that she considered the whole as a frolic , frivolous in its intention , though dreadful in its effects , suffered her to remain in that persuasion . 
She passed the night by his bed-side , devoting every moment of his disturbed repose to fervent prayers for his recovery . 
From feverish and interrupted sleep , Montreville awoke unrefreshed ; and the surgeon , when he repeated his visit , again alarmed Laura with representations of her father 's danger , and assurances that nothing but the most vigilant attention to his quiet could preserve his life . 
The anguish with which Laura listened to this sentence she suppressed , lest it should injure her father . 
She never approached him but to bring comfort ; she spoke to him cheerfully , while the tears forced themselves to her eyes ; and smiled upon him while her heart was breaking . 
She felt what he must suffer , should the thought occur to him that he was about to leave her to the world , unfriended and alone ; and she never mentioned his illness to him unless with the voice of hope . 
But of the danger which she strove to disguise , Montreville was fully sensible ; and though he forbore to shock her by avowing it explicitly , he could not , like her , suppress his fears . 
He would sometimes fervently wish that he could see his child safe in the protection of Mrs Douglas ; and sometimes , when Laura was bending over him in the tenderest sympathy , he would clasp her neck , and cry , with an agony that shook his whole frame , `` What -- Oh what will become of thee ! '' 
Full well did Laura guess the mournful meaning of these questions . 
Full well did they remind her , that when the De Courcy family left London , she with her dying father would amidst this populous wilderness be alone . 
She anticipated the last scene of this sad tragedy ; when , amidst busy thousands , a senseless corpse would be her sole companion . 
She looked forward to its close , when even this sad society would be withdrawn . 
Human fortitude could not support the prospect ; and she would rush from her father 's presence , to give vent to agonies of sorrow . 
But the piety of Laura could half invest misfortune with the character of blessing ; as the mists that rise to darken the evening sun are themselves tinged with his glory . 
She called to mind the gracious assurance which marks the afflicted who suffer not by their own guilt or folly as the favoured of Heaven ; and the more her earthly connections seemed dissolving , the more did she strive to acquaint herself with Him , from whose care no accident can sever . 
To this care she fervently committed her father ; praying that no selfish indulgence of her grief might embitter his departure ; and resolving by her fortitude to convince him that she was able to struggle with the storm from which he was no longer to shelter her . 
The day succeeding that on which Montreville was taken ill had been set apart for a farewell visit to Mrs De Courcy ; and Laura 's note of mournful apology , was answered by a kind visit from Harriet . 
Unconscious of the chief cause of her father 's impatience for Montague 's return , Laura wishing to be the bearer of intelligence which she knew would cheer him , inquired anxiously when Miss De Courcy expected her brother . 
Laura softened this unpleasing news to her father ; she did not name the particular time of Mrs De Courcy 's departure , and she suffered him still confidently to expect the return of his favourite . 
In this letter the name of Laura was not mentioned , not even in a common compliment , and Montreville remarked to her this omission . 
`` He has forgotten it , '' answered Laura , -- `` his warm heart is full of his friend 's distress and yours , and has not room for mere ceremony . '' 
inquired Laura ; but Montreville did not speak , and she thought no more of De Courcy 's little omission . 
Her father , indeed , for the present , occupied almost all her earthly thoughts , and even her prayers rose more frequently for him than for herself . 
Except during the visits of the surgeon , she was Montreville 's sole attendant ; and , regardless of fatigue , she passed every night by his bed-side , every day in ministering to his comfort . 
If , worn out with watching , she dropt asleep , she started again at his slightest motion , and obstinately refused to seek in her own chamber a less interrupted repose . 
`` No , '' thought she , `` let my strength serve me while I have duties to perform , while yet my father lives to need my efforts ; then may I be permitted to sink to early rest , and the weary labourer , while yet it is but morning , be called to receive his hire . '' 
Laura hoped that she should live while she could be useful to her father ; and she wished that she might not survive him . 
One only other wish she had , and that was for De Courcy 's return ; for Montreville , whose spirits more than shared his bodily languor , now seldom spoke , but to express his longing for the presence of his favourite . 
Laura continued to cheer him with a hope which she herself no longer felt ; for now three days only remained ere Mrs De Courcy was to quit London . 
The departure of their friends Laura resolved to conceal from her father , that , believing them to be near , he might feel himself the less forlorn ; and this she thought might be practicable , as he had never since his illness expressed any wish to quit his bed , or to see Miss De Courcy when she came . 
In Montreville 's darkened apartment , without occupation but in her cares for him , almost without rest , had Laura passed a week , when she was one morning summoned from her melancholy charge , to attend a visitor . 
She entered the parlour . 
she exclaimed , springing joyfully to meet him , `` thank Heaven you are come ! '' 
But not with equal warmth did De Courcy accost her . 
The repulsive look she had given him at parting was still fresh in his recollection ; and , with a respectful distant bow , he expressed his sorrow for Captain Montreville 's illness . 
said Laura , the faint hectic of pleasure fading suddenly from her cheek . 
`` Earnestly has he longed for your return ; and we feared , '' said she , with a violent effort suppressing her tears , `` we feared that you might not have come till -- till all was over : '' `` Surely Miss Montreville , '' said De Courcy , extremely shocked , `` surely you are causelessly alarmed . '' 
`` Oh no , '' cried Laura `` he can not live ! '' 
and no longer able to contain her emotion , she burst into a passion of tears . 
Forced entirely from his guard by her grief , Montague threw himself on the seat by her . 
But absorbed in her distress , Laura heeded him not ; and the next moment , sensible of his imprudence , he started from her side , and retreated to a distant part of the room . 
As soon as she was again able to command herself , she went to inform her father of De Courcy 's arrival . 
He grasped Laura 's hand ; and , with tears of joy streaming down his pale cheeks , said , -- `` Heaven be praised ! 
Laura herself felt less desolate ; and she rejoiced even for herself , when she once more saw De Courcy seated beside her father . 
It was only the morning before , that a letter from Harriet had informed her brother of Montreville 's illness and of Laura 's distress . 
He was shocked at the death-like looks of Montreville , and still more so at those of Laura . 
Her eyes were sunk , her lips colourless , and her whole appearance indicated that she was worn out with fatigue and wretchedness . 
Yet De Courcy felt , that never in the bloom of health and beauty , had she been so dear to him , and scarcely could he forbear from addressing her in the accents of compassion and of love . 
Montreville wishing to speak with him alone , begged of Laura to leave him for a while to De Courcy 's care , and endeavour to take some rest . 
She objected that Montague had himself need of rest , having travelled all night ; but when he assured her , that even if she drove him away he would not attempt to sleep , she consented to retire , and seek the repose of which she was so much in want . 
When they were alone , Montreville shewed De Courcy the warning letter ; and related to him the baseness of Warren and Laura 's escape . 
He often changed colour , and his lips quivered with emotion ; and , when her father described the manner in which she had accomplished her escape , he exclaimed with enthusiasm , `` Yes , she is superior to every weakness , as she is alive to every gentle feeling . '' 
Montreville then dwelt upon her unremitting care of him -- on the fortitude with which she suppressed her sorrow , even while its violence was perceptibly injuring her health . 
To have secured to her the protection of Montague would have destroyed the bitterness of death . 
Had Laura been the heiress of millions , he would have rejoiced to bestow her and them upon De Courcy . 
But he acorned to force him to a declaration , and respected her too much to make an approach towards offering her to any man 's acceptance . 
But the warmth of approbation with which he mentioned Laura , seemed to indicate that his opinion of her was already fixed . 
It was possible , too , that De Courcy wished to secure an interest in her regard before he ventured formally to petition for it . 
Whatever was the cause of Montague 's silence , the Captain anticipated the happiest consequences from his renewed intercourse with Laura ; and he resolved that he would not , by any indelicate interference , compel him to precipitate his declaration . 
Laura repaid these attentions to her father with gratitude unutterable . 
Often did she wish to thank De Courcy as he deserved ; but she felt that her acknowledgments must fall far short of her feelings and of his deserts , if they were not made with a warmth , which to a man , and to a young man , she revolted from expressing . 
She imagined , too , that to one who sought for friendship , mere gratitude might be mortifying ; and that it might wound the generous nature of Montague to be thanked as a benefactor , where he wished to be loved as an equal . 
She therefore did not speak of , or but slightly mentioned , her own and her father 's obligations to him ; but she strove to repay them in the way that would have been most acceptable to herself , by every mark of confidence and good will . 
Here no timidity restrained her ; for no feeling that could excite timidity at all mingled with her regard for De Courcy . 
But , confined to her own breast , her gratitude became the stronger ; and if she had now had a heart to give , to Montague it would have been freely given . 
He was able to rise ; and one day , with the assistance of Montague 's arm , surprised Laura with a visit in the parlour . 
The heart of Laura swelled with transport when she saw him once more occupy his accustomed seat in the family-room , and received him as one returned from the grave . 
She sat by him , holding his hand between her own , but did not try to speak . 
`` If it would not make you jealous , Laura , '' said Montreville , `` I should tell you that Mr De Courcy is a better nurse than you are . 
Laura answered only by glancing upon De Courcy a look of heartfelt benevolence and pleasure . 
How cheaply would bodily suffering purchase the sympathy , the endearments of '' -- the name of Laura rose to his lips , but he suppressed it , and changed the expression to `` an amiable woman . '' 
cried Laura , raising her eyes full of grateful tears to his face . 
The enthusiasm of gratitude had hurried Laura into a warmth which the next moment covered her with confusion ; and she withdrew her eyes from De Courcy 's face before she had time to remark the effect of these , the first words of emotion that ever she had addressed to him . 
The transport excited by the ardour of her expressions , and the cordial approbation which they implied , instantly gave way to extreme mortification . 
De Courcy had never declared his preference for Laura ; he was even determined not to declare it . 
Yet to find that she had not a wish to secure it for herself , gave him such acute vexation , that he was unable to remain in her presence . 
He soon however reproached himself with the unreasonableness of his feelings ; and returned to his oft-repeated resolution to cultivate the friendship without aspiring to the love of Laura . 
He even persuaded himself that he rejoiced in her freedom from a passion which could not be gratified without a sacrifice of the most important duties . 
Most joyfully would Montague have relinquished every luxury , undergone every privation , to secure the possession of Laura ; but he would not sacrifice his mother 's health nor his sister 's independence to any selfish gratification ; nor would he subject the woman of his choice to the endless embarrassments of a revenue too small for its purposes . 
These reasons had determined him against addressing Laura . 
At their first interview he had been struck with her as the most lovely woman he had ever beheld : but he was in no fear that his affections should he entangled . 
They had escaped from a hundred lovely women , who had done their utmost to ensnare them , while she was evidently void of any such design . 
Laura 's manners had charmed De Courcy as much as her person . 
Further acquaintance gradually laid open to him the great and amiable qualities of her mind , and was it not natural and proper to love virtue ? 
Laura 's love indeed he could not seek ; but her friendship he might cherish ; and who would exchange the friendship of such a woman for the silly fondness of a thousand vulgar minds ? 
In this pursuit he had all the success that he could desire ; for Laura treated him with undisguised regard ; and with that regard he assured himself that he should be satisfied . 
Short absence , however , had only increased his malady ; and Laura in sorrow , Laura grateful , confiding , at times almost tender , seized at once upon every avenue to the heart of De Courcy : he revered her as the best , he admired her as the loveliest , he loved her as the most amiable of human beings . 
Still he resolved that , whatever it might cost him , he would refrain from all attempt to gain her love ; and he began to draw nice distinctions between the very tender friendship with which he hoped to inspire her , and the tormenting passion which he must silently endure . 
Happily for the success of De Courcy 's self-deceit , there was no rival at hand , with whose progress in Laura 's regard he could measure his own , and he never thought of asking himself what would be his sensations if her very tender friendship for him should not exclude love for another . 
A doubt would sometimes occur to him , as to the prudence of exposing himself to the unremitting influence of her charms , but it was quickly banished as an unwelcome intruder , or silenced with the plea , that , to withdraw himself from Montreville on a sick-bed , would outrage friendship and humanity . 
Meanwhile , with the health of her father , the spirits of Laura revived ; and considering it as an act of the highest self-denial in a domestic man to quit his home -- a literary man to suspend his studies -- a young man to become stationary in the apartment of an invalid , she exerted herself to the utmost to cheer De Courcy 's voluntary task . 
She sometimes relieved him in reading aloud , an accomplishment in which she excelled . 
Her pronunciation was correct , her voice varied , powerful and melodious , her conception rapid and accurate , while the expression of her countenance was an animated comment upon the author . 
De Courcy delighted to hear her sing the wild airs of her native mountains , which she did with inimitable pathos , though without skill . 
Her conversation , sometimes literary , sometimes gay , was always simply intended to please . 
Yet , though void of all design to dazzle , it happened , she knew not how , that in De Courcy 's company she was always more lively , more acute , than at other times . 
His remarks seemed to unlock new stores in her mind ; and the train of thought which he introduced , she could always follow with peculiar ease and pleasure . 
Safe in her preference for another , she treated him with the most cordial frankness . 
Utterly unconscious of the sentiment she inspired , she yet had an animating confidence in De Courcy 's good will ; and sometimes pleased herself with thinking , that , next to his mother and sister , she stood highest of women in his regard . 
No arts of the most refined coquetry could have rivetted more closely the chains of the ill-fated De Courcy ; and the gratitude of the unconscious Laura , pointed the shaft that gave the death wound to his peace . 
How was it possible for her to imagine , that the same sentiment could produce a demeanour so opposite as De Courcy 's was from that of Hargrave . 
Hargrave omitted no opportunity to plead his passion ; and though the presence of a third person of necessity precluded this topic , it restrained him not from gazing upon Laura with an eagerness from which she shrunk abashed . 
De Courcy had never mentioned love ; and Laura observed that , when his glance met her 's , he would sometimes withdraw his eye with -LRB- as she thought -RRB- almost womanly modesty . 
In her private interviews with Hargrave , he had ever approached her with as much vehemence and freedom of speech and manner , as her calm dignity would permit . 
He was convinced that the preference of De Courcy for Laura had risen into a passion , which , for some unknown reason , he wished to conceal ; and he perceived , by the ease of her behaviour , that Montague 's secret was unsuspected by her . 
In Laura 's absence , he sometimes led the conversation towards the subject ; but De Courcy never improved the offered opportunity . 
But the disdain of Laura yet rankled in the mind of Warren , and he positively refused to bring the affair to any conclusion , declaring , that he would litigate it to the last sixpence he was worth : to which declaration he added an excellent joke concerning the union of Scotch pride with Scotch poverty . 
At this effrontery the honest blood of De Courcy boiled with indignation , and he was on the point of vowing , that he too would beggar himself , rather than permit such infamous oppression ; but his mother , his sister , and Laura herself , rose to his mind , and he contented himself with threatening to expose Warren to the disgrace that he merited . 
Warren now began to suspect that De Courcy was the cause of Laura 's contemptuous reception of his addresses , and , enraged at his interference , yet overawed by his manly appearance and decided manner , became sullen , and refused to answer Montague 's expostulations . 
That Laura should submit to the inelegancies of a mean habitation , was what he could not bear to think of ; and he determined , by a friendly little artifice , to reconcile Montreville 's comfort with his economy . 
A certain delicacy prevented Laura from endeavouring to procure a reversal of her father 's decree , issued in a moment of peevishness , that she should paint no more with a view to pecuniary reward . 
She felt that he had been wrong , and she shrunk from reminding him of it , till her labours should again become necessary . 
Her draperies were always designed with the most chastened decency ; and , after all her toil , even the form of Pleasure came sober and matronly from the hand of Laura . 
Designing a little surprise for her friends , she had never mentioned this picture to De Courcy ; and as she daily stole some of the hours of his visit to bestow upon it , it advanced rapidly . 
Montague bore these absences with impatience ; but Montreville , who knew how Laura was employed , took no notice of them , and De Courcy durst not complain . 
He recollected that Montague had of late never met Laura but in his presence , and he thought it natural that the lover should wish to make his first application to his mistress herself . 
He had an idea , that the picture might be made to assist the denouement which he so ardently desired ; and with this view he privately gave orders that when next Mr De Courcy came he should be ushered into the painting-room , which he knew would be empty , as Laura never quitted him till De Courcy arrived to take her place . 
Next morning accordingly Montague was shewn into the room which he had himself destined for Laura , and , for that reason , supplied with many little luxuries which belonged not to its original furniture . 
He looked round with delight on the marks of her recent presence . 
There lay her book open as she had quitted it , and the pencil with which she had marked the margin . 
On a table lay her port-folio and drawing materials : in a corner stood her easel with the picture , over which was thrown a shawl which he had seen her wear . 
Not conceiving that she could have any desire to conceal her work , he approached it , and , raising the covering , stood for a moment motionless with surprise . 
The next , a thousand sensations , vague but delightful , darted through his mind ; but before he could give-shape or distinctness to any one of them , the step approached that ever roused De Courcy to eager expectation , and letting drop the shawl , he flew towards the door to receive Laura . 
Laura sprung forward to prevent him from raising the covering . 
`` Oh yes , indeed , '' said Laura , blushing , `` you must not look at it . '' 
`` I am sure , '' said Laura , blushing again , and still more deeply , `` it could give you no pleasure in its present state . '' 
De Courcy 's eagerness , and the consciousness of her own confusion , made Laura now more unwilling that Montague should discover the cause of both to be his own portrait , and actually trembling with emotion , she said , putting her hand on the shawl to prevent him from raising it , `` Indeed I can not shew you this . 
`` Any inference , '' replied Laura , still holding the shawl , `` that friendship or charity will permit . '' 
Laura , a little offended at his perseverance , gravely withdrew her hand , and turned away , saying , `` Since my wishes have no power , I shall make no other trial of strength . '' 
cried De Courcy following her , `` they have more force than a thousand arms . '' 
`` Well , '' said Laura , a little surprised by his manner , but turning upon him a smile of gracious reconciliation , `` your forbearance may hereafter be rewarded by a sight of this important picture ; but lest you should forfeit your recompense , had we not better remove from temptation ? '' 
She then led the way to the parlour , and De Courcy followed her in a state of agitation that could not be concealed . 
`` Do not go away ill and alone , '' said Laura , kindly detaining him . 
said Laura , with affectionate earnestness . 
He then wrung Montreville 's hand , and uttering something which his emotion made inarticulate , without venturing a glance towards Laura , he quitted the house , and returned home in a state bordering on distraction . 
That Laura should have painted his portrait in a groupe where it held such a relation to her own ; that she should keep it concealed in an apartment exclusively appropriated to herself ; her alarm lest he should examine it ; her confusion , which had at last risen to the most distressing height , from the idea of what De Courcy might infer , should he discover that his own portrait was the cause of so many blushes ; the confiding affectionate manner in which she treated him ; -- all conspired to mislead De Courcy . 
Could he forget the justice of his sister 's claims , sacrifice to his selfish wishes the comfort of his mother , or wed his half-worshipped Laura to the distresses of an embarrassed fortune ? 
Or could he lay open to Laura his feelings and his situation , and sue for her love , even while their union must be delayed . 
Her attachment , he thought , was yet in its infancy , born of gratitude , fostered by separation from other society , and , for the present , pleasing in its sensations , and transient in its nature . 
But he thought her capable of a love as fervent -- as deep-rooted as that which she inspired ; and should he wilfully awaken in her peaceful breast the cravings of such a passion as tortured his own ; see her spirits , her vigour of mind , her usefulness , perhaps her health , give way to the sickness of `` hope deferred ! '' 
No , -- rather let her return to the indifference in which he found her . 
Or , should he shackle her with a promise , of which honour might extort a reluctant fulfilment , after the affection that prompted it was perhaps withdrawn from him ? 
All Laura 's endeavours failed to animate him to cheerfulness , or rouse him to employment . 
If he permitted her to remain by him , he seemed rather to endure than to enjoy her presence , repressed with a languid monosyllable her attempts at conversation , or passed whole hours in listless silence . 
Laura , who forboded the worst consequences from the indulgence of this depression , endeavoured to persuade him that he might now safely attempt a voyage to Scotland , and predicted beneficial effects from the sea air . 
But Montreville answered her with displeasure , that such an exertion would certainly destroy him , and that those who were themselves in high health and spirits , could not judge of the feelings , nor sympathize with the weakness of disease . 
The reproach had no more justice than is usual with the upbraidings of the sickly ; for Laura 's spirits shared every turn of her father 's , though her stronger mind could support with grace the burden that weighed his to the earth . 
She desisted , however , from a subject which she saw that , for the present , he would not bear , and confined her endeavours to persuading him to undertake some light occupation , or to walk in the little garden that belonged to the house . 
But , even in these attempts she was commonly defeated ; for Montreville would make no exertion , and the winter wind , now keen and biting , pierced through his wasted form . 
Such were the tasks that Laura voluntarily prescribed to herself . 
Incited by affection , and by strong sense of duty , she soothed the fretful humour , prompted the reluctant exertion , fanned the expiring hope , and seized the favourable moment to soften by feminine tenderness , or exhilarate by youthful gaiety . 
That principle was Laura 's ; and even while her endeavours seemed unavailing , she was content to employ all her powers in the task selected for her by the bestower of them . 
Fretful and impatient , yet conscious of his injustice , and unwilling that Laura should observe it , he would often dismiss her from her attendance , and spend whole hours in solitary gloom . 
These hours Laura devoted to her picture , stealing between whiles , on tiptoe , to the door of her father 's apartment , to listen whether he was stirring ; and sometimes venturing to knock gently for admittance . 
The picture , which was far advanced when De Courcy left town , soon received the finishing touches ; and Laura lost no time in transmitting it to Norwood . 
She wrote an affectionate letter to Harriet ; in which , after thanking her for all her kindness , she offered her gift , and added , that to give her work a value which it would not otherwise have possessed , she had introduced the portrait of De Courcy ; and that ; glad of an opportunity of associating the remembrance of herself with an object of interest , she had admitted her own resemblance into the group . 
In the singleness of her heart , it never occurred to Laura , that any thing in the mutual relation of the figures of her piece stood in need of explanation . 
inquired Laura . 
Laura 's countenance brightened with satisfaction , and she suffered her informer to proceed . 
inquired Laura . 
The flush , both of pride and vexation , for once stained the transparent skin of Laura . 
Yet it was only for a moment ; and her next feeling was pleasure at the confirmation of the benevolent character with which her imagination had invested De Courcy . 
He had purchased her work when she was quite unknown to him , only , as she thought , from a wish to reward industry ; and because he had been led to believe that the price was an object to the artist . 
Had another been the purchaser , she might have allowed something for the merit of the piece ; but Laura was not yet cured of first imagining characters , and then bending facts to suit her theory . 
Sooner than bate one iota from De Courcy 's benevolence , she would have assigned to her picture the rank of a sign-post . 
She now remembered , that in her visits to Audley Street she had never seen her works ; and in her approbation of the delicacy which prompted De Courcy to conceal that she was known to him as an artist , she forgot the little prejudice which this concealment implied . 
He applauded Laura 's exertions ; he approved of the spirit that led a young woman of family to dare , in spite of custom , to be useful . 
Yet he could not help acting as if she had shared the opinion of the world , and been herself ashamed of her labours . 
But this was a shame that Laura knew not . 
She wished not indeed to intrude on the world 's notice . 
Her choice was peaceful obscurity . 
But if she must be known , she would have far preferred the distinction earned by ingenious industry , to the notoriety which wealth and luxury can purchase . 
On her return home , she found her father reading a letter which he had just received from De Courcy . 
`` The protection of so young a man , '' said Laura , avoiding to answer to a foreboding which she considered merely as a symptom of her father 's disease , `` might not perhaps have appeared advantageous to me in the eyes of those who are unacquainted with Mr De Courcy . '' 
cried Laura , starting , and turning pale . 
Montreville looked up in extreme surprise ; and inquired the reason of her thankfulness . 
`` Oh Sir , '' she replied , `` we owe so much to Mr De Courcy 's friendship , that I should have hated myself for being unable to return his affection ; -- and pity would it have been that the love of so amiable a being should have been bestowed in vain . '' 
Montreville fixed his eyes upon her , as if to seek for farther explanation , and continued to gaze on her face , when his thoughts had wandered from the examination of it . 
After some minutes of silence , he said -- `` Laura , you once rejected an alliance , splendid beyond my hopes , almost beyond my wishes , and that with a man formed to be the darling of your sex ; and now you speak as if even Montague De Courcy would have failed to gain you . 
Speak candidly , Laura ; -- you will not always have a father to confide in . '' 
Deep crimson dyed the cheeks of Laura ; but , with the hesitation of a moment , she replied -- `` No , Sir , I have no wish to marry . 
`` No , Laura , '' said Montreville , `` I ask no more than you willingly avow . 
`` My dearest father , '' said Laura , throwing her arm affectionately round his neck , `` do not give way to such gloomy forebodings . 
`` Indeed , Sir , '' said Laura , though a cold shuddering seized her , `` your fears have no foundation . 
`` Dr Flint deceives you , Laura , '' said he ; -- `` you deceive yourself . '' 
`` No , indeed , '' said Laura , though she trembled ; `` you look much better , -- you are much better . 
`` Should the worst befal , '' said Laura , turning pale as alabaster , `` think that I shall not be alone , I shall not want , for '' -- her voice failed , but she raised her eyes with an expression that filled up the ennobling sentiment . 
Laura retired to her own room , and endeavoured herself to practise the trust which she recommended to her father . 
Her meditations were interrupted by the entrance of her landlady , Mrs Stubbs , who , with many courtesies and apologies , said that she was come to present her account . 
Laura , who always had pleasure in cancelling a debt the moment it was incurred , and who conceived no apology to be necessary from those who came to demand only their own , received her landlady very graciously , and begged her to be seated , while she went to bring her father 's purse . 
Mrs Stubbs spread her bills upon the table ; and Laura , after examining them , was obliged to ask an explanation . 
`` I understood , '' said Laura , `` that we were to have the lodgings for a guinea and a half a-week , and '' -- `` A guinea and a half ! '' 
cried the landlady , colouring with wrath at this disparagement of her property . 
Laura mildly pleaded her ignorance of those matters , and urged De Courcy 's information as an excuse for her mistake . 
Laura suffered her loquacious hostess to proceed without interruption , for her thoughts were fully occupied . 
She had incurred a debt greater , by five guineas , than she had been prepared to expect ; and this sum was , in her present circumstances , of great importance . 
Yet her predominant feeling was grateful approbation of De Courcy 's benevolence ; nor did her heart at all upbraid him with the consequences of his wellmeant deception . 
`` Kind , considerate De Courcy , '' thought she ; `` he had hoped that , ere now , we should have ceased to need his generosity , and even have been removed from the possibility of discovering it . '' 
Recollecting herself , she paid the landlady her full demand ; and , dismissing her , sat down to examine what remained of her finances . 
All that she possessed , she found amounted to no more than one guinea and a few shillings ; and , dropping the money into her lap , she sat gazing on it in blank dismay . 
The poverty , whose approach she had so long contemplated with a fearful eye , had now suddenly overtaken her . 
Husbanded with whatever care , the sum before her could minister only to the wants of a few hours . 
In her present habitation , it would scarcely purchase shelter for another night from the storm which a keen winterwind was beginning to drive against her window . 
It was too late to resort to the earnings of her own genius . 
Even the highest effort of her art might long wait a purchaser ; and tears fell from the eyes of Laura while she reflected that , even if she could again produce a Leonidas , she might never again find a De Courcy . 
To borrow money on the Captain 's half-pay , was an expedient which Laura had always rejected , as calculated to load their scanty income with a burden which it could neither shake off nor bear . 
But even to this expedient she could now no longer have recourse ; for Montreville had assured her , that , in his present state of health , it would be impossible to mortgage his annuity for a single guinea . 
She might raise a small supply by stripping her beloved Glenalbert of some of its little luxuries and comforts ; but , long before this revolting business could be transacted , she must be absolutely pennyless . 
Nor did she dare , without consulting her father , to give orders for dismantling his home . 
And how should she inform him of the necessity for such a sacrifice ? 
`` He thinks he is about to leave me , '' cried she , `` and shall I tell him that I must owe to charity even the sod that covers him from me ? 
No ; I will perish first ; '' and , starting from her seat , she paced the room in distressful meditation on the means of concealing from her father the extent of their calamity . 
She determined to take upon herself the care of their little fund , under pretence that the trouble was too great for Montreville . 
He had of late shewn such listless indifference to all domestic concerns , that she hoped he might never inquire into the extent of his landlady 's demand , or that his inquiries might be eluded . 
It seemed a light thing in Laura 's eyes to suffer alone ; or rather she thought not of her own sufferings , could she but spare to her father the anguish of knowing himself and his child utterly destitute . 
She judged of his feelings by her own ; felt , by sympathy , all the pangs with which he would witness wants which he could not supply ; and she inwardly vowed to conceal from him every privation that she might endure , -- every labour that she might undergo . 
But , void of every resource , far from every friend , destitute amid boundless wealth , alone amid countless multitudes , whither should she turn for aid , or even for counsel ? 
`` Whither , '' cried she , dropping on her knees , `` except to Him who hath supplied me in yet more urgent want , who hath counselled me in yet more fearful difficulty , who hath fed my soul with angels ' food , and guided it with light from heaven ? '' 
Laura rose from her devotions , more confiding in the care of Providence , more able to consider calmly of improving the means which still remained within her own power . 
Before she could finish and dispose of a picture , weeks must elapse for which she could make no provision . 
To painting , therefore , she could not have immediate recourse . 
Could she but hope to obtain a subsistence for her father , she would labour night and day , deprive herself of recreation , of rest , even of daily food , rather than wound his heart by an acquaintance with poverty . 
`` And since his pride is hurt by the labours of his child , '' said she , `` even his pride shall be sacred . 
-- an emotion of pride swelled the bosom of Laura at the thought that the merit of her toils was enhanced by their secrecy . 
The resolutions of Laura were ever the immediate prelude to action ; and here was no time for delay . 
She again looked mournfully upon her little treasure , hopelessly re-examined the purse that contained it ; again , with dismay , remembered that it was her all ; then , hastily putting it into her pocket , she drew her portfolio towards her , and began to prepare for her work with the hurry of one to whom every moment seems precious . 
Invention was at present impossible ; but she tried to recollect one of her former designs , and busied herself in sketching it till the hour of dinner arrived . 
She then went to summon her father from his chamber to the eating-room . 
`` This day , '' thought she , `` I must share his precarious sustenance -- hereafter I shall be more provident . 
and she turned for a moment from the door , to suppress the emotion that would have choked her utterance . 
`` Come in , my dear , '' cried Montreville , who had heard her footstep ; and Laura entered with a smile . 
She offered her arm to assist him in descending to the parlour . 
`` Why will you always urge me to go down stairs , Laura , '' said he ; `` you see I am unequal to the fatigue . '' 
`` I shall not urge you to-morrow , '' answered Laura : and Montreville thought the tears which stood in her eyes , were the consequence of the impatient tone in which he had spoken . 
During the evening , Laura avoided all mention of restoring the purse to her father , and he appeared to have forgotten its existence . 
But , by no effort could she beguile those cheerless hours . 
Her utmost exertions were necessary to maintain the appearance of composure ; and De Courcy 's letter seemed to have consummated Montreville 's feelings of solitude and desolation . 
After spending a few silent hours without effort towards employment or recreation , he retired for the night ; and Laura experienced a sensation of relief , as , shutting herself into her apartment , she prepared to resume her labours . 
After every other member of the family had retired to rest , she continued to work till her candle expired in the socket ; and then threw herself on her bed to rise again with the first blush of dawn . 
Montreville had been accustomed to breakfast in his own room ; Laura therefore found no difficulty in beginning her system of abstemiousness . 
Hastily swallowing a few mouthfuls of dry bread , she continued her drawing , till her father rang for his chocolate . 
She was fully resolved to adhere to this plan , to labour with unceasing industry , and to deny herself whatever was not essential to her existence . 
But neither hard fare , nor labour , nor confinement , could occasion to Laura such pain as she suffered from another of the necessities of her situation . 
Amidst her mournful reflections , it had occurred to her , that unless she would incur a debt which she could not hope to discharge , it would be necessary to dismiss the surgeon who attended her father . 
All her ideas of honour and integrity revolted from suffering a man to expend his time and trouble , in expectation of a return which she was unable to make . 
She was besides convinced that in Montreville 's case medicine could be of no avail . 
But she feared to hint the subject to her father , lest she should lead to a discovery of their present circumstances ; and such was her conviction of the feebleness of his spirits , and such her dread of the consequences of their increased depression , that all earthly evils seemed light compared with that of adding to his distress . 
Laura perhaps judged wrong ; for one real evil sometimes ameliorates the condition , by putting to flight a host of imaginary calamities , and by compelling that exertion which makes any situation tolerable . 
But she trembled for the effects of the slightest additional suffering upon the life or the reason of her father ; and she would have thought it little less than parricide to add a new bruise to the wounded spirit . 
On the other hand , she dreaded that Montreville , if kept in ignorance of its real cause , might consider the desertion of his medical attendant as an intimation that his case was hopeless , and perhaps become the victim of his imaginary danger . 
She knew not on what to resolve . 
Her distress and perplexity were extreme ; and if any thing could have vanquished the stubborn integrity of Laura , the present temptation would have prevailed . 
But no wilful fraud could be the issue of her deliberations , who was steadily convinced that inflexible justice looks on to blast with a curse even the successful schemes of villany , and to shed a blessing on the sorrows of the upright . 
She would not even for her father incur a debt which she could never hope to pay ; and nothing remained but to consider of the best means of executing her painful determination . 
Here a new difficulty occurred , for she could not decline the surgeon 's further attendance without offering to discharge what she already owed . 
In the present state of her funds , this was utterly impossible ; for though , at her instigation , his bill had been lately paid , she was sure that the new one must already amount to more than all she possessed . 
How to procure the necessary supply she knew not ; for even if she could have secured the immediate sale of her drawings , the price of her daily and nightly toil would scarcely suffice to pay for the expensive habitation which she durst not propose to leave , and to bribe the fastidious appetite of Montreville with dainties of which he could neither bear the want nor feel the enjoyment . 
Once only , and it was but for a moment , she thought of appealing to the humanity of Dr Flint , of unfolding to him her situation , and begging his attendance upon the chance of future remuneration . 
But Laura was destined once more to pay the penalty of her hasty judgments of character . 
On Montreville 's first illness , Dr Flint had informed Laura , with -LRB- as she thought -RRB- great want of feeling , of her father 's danger . 
He had , moreover , an uninviting name ; and though Laura was ashamed to confess to herself that such trifles could influence her judgment , these disadvantages were the real cause why she always met Dr Flint with a sensation resembling that with which one encounters a cold , damp , northeast wind . 
Yet Laura 's opinion , or rather her feelings , wronged Dr Flint . 
It is also true , that , considering Montreville 's first illness as the effect of a very unpardonable levity on the part of Laura , he had spoken to her on that occasion with even more than his usual frigidity . 
Nor did he either possess or lay claim to any great share of sensibility ; but he was not destitute of humanity ; and had Laura explained to him her situation , he would willingly have attended her father without prospect of recompense . 
But Laura did not put his benevolence to the test . 
She suffered him to make his morning visit and depart ; while she was considering of a plan which appeared little less revolting . 
Laura knew that one of the most elegant houses in Grosvenor Street was inhabited by a Lady Pelham , the daughter of Lady Harriet Montreville 's mother by a former marriage . 
With all her Scotish prejudice in favour of the claims of kindred -LRB- and Laura in this and many other respects was entirely a Scotch woman -RRB- , she could not , without the utmost repugnance , think of applying to her relation . 
To introduce herself to a stranger whom she had never seen -- to appear not only as an inferior , but as a supplicant -- a beggar ! 
Laura had long and successfully combated the innate pride of human nature ; but her humility almost failed under this trial . 
Her illustrious ancestry -- the dignity of a gentlewoman -- the independence of one who can bear to labour and endure to want , all rose successively to her mind ; for pride can wear many specious forms . 
But she had nearer claims that the honour of her ancestry -- dearer concerns than her personal importance ; and when she thought of her father , she felt that she was no longer independent . 
Severe was her struggle , and bitter were the tears which she shed over the conviction that it was right that she should become a petitioner for the bounty of a stranger . 
In vain did she repeat to herself , that she was a debtor to the care of Providence for her daily bread , and was not entitled to choose the means by which it was supplied . 
She could not conquer her reluctance . 
But she could act right in defiance of it . 
She could sacrifice her own feelings to the comfort of her father -- to a sense of duty . 
Nay , upon reflection , she could rejoice that circumstances compelled her to quell that proud spirit with which , as a Christian , she maintained a constant and vigorous combat . 
While these thoughts were passing in her mind , she had finished her drawing ; and , impatient to know how far this sort of labour was likely to be profitable , she furnished her father with a book to amuse him in her absence ; and , for the first time since they had occupied their present lodgings , expressed a wish to take a walk for amusement . 
Had Montreville observed the blushes that accompanied this little subterfuge , he would certainly have suspected that the amusement which this walk promised was of no common kind ; but he was in one of his reveries , hanging over the mantle-piece , with his forehead resting on his arm , and did not even look up while he desired her not to be long absent . 
She resolved to go first to Lady Pelham , that coming early she might find her disengaged , and afterwards to proceed to the print-shop . 
The wind blew keen across the snow as Laura began her reluctant pilgrimage . 
Her summer attire , to which her finances could afford no addition , ill defended her from the blast . 
Through the streets of London she was to explore her way unattended . 
Accustomed to find both safety and pleasure in the solitude of her walks , she was to mix in the throngs of a rude rabble , without protection from insult . 
But no outward circumstances could add to the feelings of comfortless dismay with which she looked forward to the moment , when , ushered through stately apartments into the presence of self-important greatness , she should announce herself a beggar . 
Her courage failed -- she paused , and made one step back towards her home . 
But she recalled her former thoughts . 
`` I have need to be humbled , '' said she ; and again proceeded on her way . 
As she left the little garden that surrounded her lodging , she perceived an old man who had taken shelter by one of the pillars of the gate . 
He spoke in the dialect of her native land , and the accents went to Laura 's heart ; -- for Laura was in the land of strangers . 
She had never been deaf to the petitions of the poor ; for all the poor of Glenalbert were known to her ; and she knew that what she spared from her own comforts , was not made the minister of vice . 
Her purse was already in her hand , ere she remembered that to give was become a crime . 
As the thought crossed her , she started like one who had esacped from sudden danger . 
`` No , I must not give you money , '' said she , and returned the purse into her pocket , with a pang that taught her the true bitterness of poverty . 
`` I am cold and hungry , '' said the man still pleading , and taking encouragement from Laura 's relenting eye . 
repeated Laura , `` then come with me , and I will give you bread ; '' and she returned to the house to bestow on the old man the humble fare which she had before destined to supply her own wants for the day , glad to purchase by a longer fast the right to feed the hungry . 
`` In what respect am I better than this poor creature , '' said she to herself , as she returned with the beggar to the gate , `` that I should offer to him with ease , and even with pleasure , what I myself can not ask without pain . 
But it was in vain that Laura continued to argue with herself . 
In this instance she could only do her duty ; she could not love it . 
Her heart filled , and the tears rose to her eyes . 
She dashed them away -- but they rose again . 
When she found herself in Grosvenor Street , she paused for a moment . 
Why , then , '' said Laura , raising her head , and again advancing with a firmer step , `` I shall owe no obligation to a stranger . '' 
She approached the house -- she ascended the steps . 
Almost breathless she laid her hand upon the knocker . 
At that moment she imagined her entrance through files of insolent domestics , into a room filled with gay company . 
She anticipated the inquisitive glances -- shrunk in fancy from the supercilious examination ; and she again drew back her hand . 
`` I shall never have courage to face all this , '' thought she . 
Laura perceived that she had drawn the attention of a young man on the pavement , who stood gazing on her with familiar curiosity ; and she knocked , almost before she was sensible that she intended it . 
inquired Laura , taking encouragement from the sight of one of her own sex . 
Laura drew a long deep breath , as if a weight had been lifted from her breast ; and , suppressing an ejaculation of `` thank Heaven , '' sprung in the lightness of her heart at one skip from the door to the pavement . 
Laura 's exultation was of short continuance . 
She had gone but a few steps ere she reflected that the wants which she had undertaken so painful a visit to supply were as clamant as ever , and now further than ever from a chance of relief . 
Mournfully she pursued her way towards the print-shop , hopelessly comparing her urgent and probably prolonged necessities with her confined resources . 
The utmost price which she could hope to receive for the drawing she carried , would be far from sufficient to discharge her debt to the surgeon ; and there seemed now no alternative but to confess her inability to pay , and to throw herself upon his mercy . 
To this measure , however , she was too averse , to adopt it without considering every other possible expedient . 
She thought of appealing to the friendship of Mrs Douglas , and of suffering Dr Flint to continue his visits till an answer from her friend should enable her to close the connection . 
Laura was sure that Mrs Douglas would supply her wants at whatever inconvenience to herself ; and this very consideration withheld her from making application to her friend . 
Laura had heard and read that ladies in distress had found subsistence by the sale of their ornaments . 
But by their example she could not profit ; for her ornaments were few in number and of no value . 
She wore indeed a locket , which she had once received from her mother , with a strong injunction neither to lose nor give it away ; but Laura , in her profound ignorance of the value of trinkets , attached no estimation to this one , except as the only unnecessary gift which she had ever received from her mother . 
`` It contains almost as much gold as a guinea , '' said she , putting her hand to it , `` and a guinea will soon be a great treasure to me . '' 
Still she determined that nothing short of extremity should induce her to part with it ; but desirous to ascertain the extent of this last resource , she entered the shop of a jeweller , and presenting the locket , begged to know its value . 
At the mention of this sum , all Laura 's difficulties seemed to vanish . 
Besides enabling her to pay the surgeon , it would make an addition to her little fund . 
With rigorous abstinence on her part , this little fund , together with the price of her incessant labour , would pay for her lodgings , and support her father in happy ignorance of his poverty , till he was able to remove to Glenalbert . 
Then , when he was quite well and quite able to bear it , she would tell him how she had toiled for him , and he would see that he had not lavished his fondness on a thankless child . 
These thoughts occupied far less time than the recital ; and yet , ere they were passed , Laura had untied the locket from her neck , and put it into the hands of the jeweller . 
It was not till she saw it in the hands of another , that she felt all the pain of parting with it . 
She asked to see it once more ; as she gazed on it for the last time , tears trickled from her eyes ; but speedily wiping them away , and averting her head , she restored the locket to its new owner , and taking up the money , departed . 
She soon arrived at the print-shop , and finding Wilkins disengaged , produced her drawing , and asked him to purchase it . 
Wilkins looked at it , and inquired what price she had put upon it . 
`` I am quite unacquainted with its real value , '' answered she , `` but the rapid sale of my work is at present such an object to me , that I shall willingly make it as cheap as possible , or allow you to fix your own price . '' 
`` I have none finished , '' answered Laura , `` but I think I could promise you six more in a week if you are inclined to take them . '' 
`` You shall have them , '' said Laura , with a sigh ; `` but I think half-a-guinea rather a low -- a high , I believe , I mean . 
-- '' Laura did not at this moment exactly know what she meant ; for her eyes had just rested on a gentleman , who , with his back towards her , was busied in examining a book of caricatures . 
She thought she could not be mistaken in the person . 
He slightly turned his head , and Laura was certain . 
Though Laura neither screamed nor fainted , this recognition was not made without extreme emotion . 
She trembled violently , and a mist spread before her eyes ; but she remembered the apparently wilful desertion of her lover ; and , determined neither to claim his compassion nor gratify his vanity by any of the airs of a forsaken damsel , she quietly turned away from him , and leant against the counter to recover strength and composure . 
Before the mortifying thought could take a distinct form , Laura was already on her way towards the door . 
`` You have left your half-guinea , Ma'am , '' said Wilkins , calling after her ; and Laura , half angry at being detained , turned back to fetch it . 
Surprise and joy illuminating his fine countenance , `` Laura ! '' 
But to the scrutiny of strangers , to the caresses of Hargrave , even to the indecorum of her situation , poor Laura was insensible . 
Weakened by the fatigue and emotion of the two preceding days , overcome by the sudden conviction that she had not been wilfully neglected , her head sunk upon the shoulder of Hargrave , and she lost all consciousness . 
When Laura recovered , she found herself in a little parlour adjoining to the shop , with no attendant but Hargrave , who still supported her in his arms . 
Laura , with cold politeness , declined his offer . 
Though a little piqued by her manner , Hargrave triumphed in the idea that he retained all his former influence . 
`` My bewitching Laura , '' said he , taking her hand , `` I beseech you to lay aside this ill-timed coquetry . 
`` No , Sir , '' said Laura indignantly , `` rather of a momentary weakness , for which I despise myself . '' 
The lover could not indeed have chosen a more unfavourable moment to express his exultation ; for Laura 's feelings of humiliation and self-reproach were just then raised to their height , by her perceiving the faces of two of the shop-boys peeping through the glass door with an aspect of roguish curiosity . 
Conscious of her inability to walk home , and feeling her situation quite intolerable , she called to one of the little spies , and begged that he would instantly procure her a hackney coach . 
Laura thought he was probably himself to blame for the absence of which he complained , and coldly answering , `` I have already been detained too long , '' was about to quit the room , when Hargrave , impatiently seizing her hand , exclaimed , `` Unfeeling Laura ! 
repeated Laura with surprise . 
Hargrave had egregiously mistaken the road to Laura 's favour when he threw a reflection upon her friend . 
`` Mrs Douglas certainly acted right , '' said she . 
`` No , '' answered Laura , `` I can not claim the merit of so much foresight . 
`` After Mr Baynard 's removal to Richmond , '' said Laura , `` I directed Mrs Douglas to address her letters to our lodgings . '' 
`` Ah Laura , think what anxieties , what wretchedness I have suffered in my fruitless search ! 
`` Indeed , '' said Laura , melted by the proof which she had received of her lover 's affection , yet fearful of forfeiting her caution , `` I am incapable of harbouring enmity against the worst of human beings , and -- '' `` Enmity ! '' 
`` I mean , '' said Laura , faltering , `` that I am not insensible to the regard -- '' `` Madam , the coach is at the door , '' said the shop-boy , again peeping slily into the room ; and Laura , hastily bidding Hargrave good morning , walked towards the carriage . 
Having herself given the coachman his directions , she suffered Hargrave to hand her in , giving him a slight bow in token of dismissal . 
He continued , however , to stand for some moments with his foot upon the step , waiting for a look of permission to accompany her ; but , receiving none , he sprung into the seat by her side , and called to the man to drive on . 
Laura offended at his boldness , gave him a very ungracious look , and drew back in silence . 
Oh Laura , if you knew what I have suffered from an absence that seemed endless ! 
`` The stipulated two years are still far from a close , '' said Laura coldly ; `` and , till they are ended , our intercourse can not be too slight . '' 
Laura could not with truth aver that such a banishment had been her intention . 
`` I believe , '' said she , suppressing a sigh , `` that would have been my wisest meaning . '' 
`` I would sooner die , '' cried Hargrave , vehemently , `` Oh , had I sooner found you , '' added he , a dark expression which Laura could not define clouding his countenance , `` what wretchedness would have been spared ! 
While he spoke he dropped upon his knee by her side , and threw his arm passionately round her . 
Time had been that Laura would have withdrawn from the embrace , womanly shame alone rejecting caresses which yet she never imagined to be less holy than a mother 's kiss . 
`` Be calm , I implore you , '' said Laura , terrified at his violence , `` no one has supplanted you . 
Laura 's soothing voice , her insinuating look , retained all their wonted power to calm the fierce passions of her lover . 
`` Oh I shall never deserve you , '' said he in a tone of wretchedness , while his face was again crossed by an expression of anguish which the unsuspecting Laura attributed to remorse for his former treatment of herself . 
The carriage at this moment stopped , and anxious to calm his spirits at parting , Laura smiled kindly upon him , and said , `` Be ever thus humble in your opinion of your own merits , ever thus partial in your estimate of mine , and then , '' added she , the tears trembling in her lovely eyes , `` we shall meet again in happier circumstances . '' 
`` Do not ask it , '' replied Laura . 
`` Ah Laura , '' said Hargrave in a voice of supplication , `` use me as you will , only suffer me to see you . '' 
Moved with the imploring tone of her lover , Laura turned towards him that she might soften by her manner the meditated refusal ; but , in an evil hour for her resolution , she met the fine eyes of Hargrave suffused with tears , and , wholly unable to utter what she intended , she remained silent . 
`` My father has been very ill , '' returned Laura , who , unknown to herself , rejoiced to find an excuse for her concession , `` and it may give him pleasure to see you ; but I can claim no share in the honour of your visits . '' 
Laura was now beset with her old difficulty . 
She had not yet learnt to speak of Hargrave without sensible confusion ; and to utter his name while any eye was fixed upon her face , required an effort which no common circumstances could have tempted her to make . 
She therefore took refuge behind her father 's chair , before she began her partial relation of her morning 's adventure . 
`` As soon as you choose to receive him , '' said Laura ; `` I shall carry your commands . 
`` For shame , Laura ! '' 
`` Certainly not , Sir , but '' -- she stopped , hesitating -- `` however , '' added she , `` since you wish it , I will go . '' 
It was not without embarrassment that Laura returned to her lover ; to offer him another tte  tte seemed so like soliciting a renewal of his ardours . 
In this idea she was stopping at the parlour door , collecting her courage , and meditating a speech decorously repulsive , when Hargrave , who had been listening for her approach , impatiently stepped out to look for her , and in a moment spoiled all her concerted oratory , by taking her hand and leading her into the room . 
Though Hargrave could at any time take Laura 's feelings by surprise , an instant was sufficient to restore her self-possession ; and withdrawing her hand , she said , `` In a few minutes , Sir , my father will be glad to see you , and at his desire I attend you till he can have that honour . '' 
`` And I , Sir , '' said Laura , solemnly , `` have one thing to say to you , of more importance to me , probably , than all the thousand . '' 
Hargrave bit his lip ; and Laura proceeded , her colour , as painful recollection rose , fading from the crimson that had newly flushed it , to the paleness of anguish . 
`` Six months ago , '' said she , speaking with an effort that rendered her words scarcely articulate -- `` Six months ago you made me a promise . 
She paused -- a cold shudder running through her limbs : but Hargrave , abashed and disconcerted , gave her no interruption , and ventured not even to raise his eyes from the ground . 
While she spoke , the blushes which had deserted her cheek were transferred to that of Hargrave ; for though , to his own conscience , he had palliated his former outrage till it appeared a very venial trespass , he was not proof against the unaffected horror with which it had inspired the virtuous Laura . 
Throwing himself at her feet , and hiding his face in her gown , he bitterly , and for the moment sincerely , bewailed his offence , and vowed to devote his life to its expiation . 
Oh , Laura , thy heavenly purity makes me the veriest wretch . 
The innocent Laura , who little suspected all his causes of self-reproach , wept tears of joy over his repentance , and , in a voice full of tenderness , said , `` Indeed I have myself too many faults to be unrelenting . 
This recip , he had no doubt , was not to be tried upon Laura ; and he fervently wished that it might be with success . 
Except himself therefore , Laura had no natural protector ; and this circumstance made him tenfold more anxious that she should recal her decision in regard to Hargrave . 
He had no doubt that the present visit was intended for Laura ; and he suffered as long a time to elapse before he claimed any share in it , as common politeness would allow . 
Hargrave instantly recovered himself , and paid his compliments with his accustomed grace ; but Laura , by no means prepared to stand inspection , disappeared the moment her father entered the room . 
He had found his Laura , -- his lovely , his innocent Laura , -- the object of his only serious passion , -- the only woman whose empire reached beyond his senses . 
On these charms he had formerly suffered his imagination to dwell , till to appropriate them seemed to him almost the chief end of existence ; and , though in absence his frenzy had a little intermitted , his interview with Laura roused it again to double violence . 
-- he vowed that if there were persuasion in man , or frailty in woman , he would shorten the period of his trial , -- that he would employ for this purpose all the power which he possessed over Laura 's heart , and , if that failed , that he would even have recourse to the authority of the father . 
But on this subject he could not now dwell without disgust , and he turned from it to the more inviting contemplation of Laura 's beauty and Laura 's love ; and with his head and his heart , every nerve , every pulse full of Laura , he retired to pursue in his dreams , the fair visions that had occupied his waking thoughts . 
While he was thus wilfully surrendering himself to the dominion of his frenzy , Laura , the self-denied Laura , was endeavouring , though it must be owned without distinguished success , to silence the pleadings of a heart as warm , though better regulated , by attending to the humble duties of the hour . 
When she quitted Hargrave , she had retired to offer up her fervent thanks to Heaven , that he was become sensible of the enormity of his former conduct . 
Earnestly did she pray , that , though earth should never witness their union , they might be permitted together to join a nobler society -- animated by yet purer loves -- bound by yet holier ties . 
She next reconsidered her own behaviour towards Hargrave ; and , though vexed at the momentary desertion of her self-command , saw , upon the whole , little cause to reproach herself , since her weakness had been merely that of the body , to which the will gave no consent . 
She resolved to be guardedly cautious in her future demeanour towards him ; and since the issue of his probation was doubtful , since its close was at all events distant , to forfeit the enjoyment of her lover 's society , rather than , by remaining in the room during his visits , appear to consider them as meant for herself . 
As soon as Hargrave was gone , Montreville returned to his chamber ; and there Laura ordered his small but delicate repast to be served , excusing herself from partaking of it , by saying that she could dine more conveniently in the parlour . 
Having in the morning bestowed on the beggar the meagre fare that should have supplied her own wants , she employed the time of her father 's meal in the labour which was to purchase him another ; pondering meanwhile on the probability that he would again enter on the discussion of Hargrave 's pretensions . 
The language of Laura 's reply was not very perspicuous ; the manner of it was more intelligible : and Montreville instantly comprehended the nature of her conference with the Colonel . 
`` Colonel Hargrave had his answer long ago , Sir , '' replied Laura , trembling at this exordium . 
Montreville sighed heavily , and , fixing his eyes mournfully upon her , remained silent . 
At last , affectionately taking her hand , he said , `` My dear child , the time has been , when even your caprices on this subject were sacred with your father . 
Laura remained silent , for she knew not how to frame her reply . 
exclaimed Laura , thrown off her guard by astonishment . 
But Laura , shocked at the extent of her own admission , covered her face with her hands , and almost in tears , made no reply . 
Laura strove to collect herself , and deep crimson dying her beautiful face and neck , she said , without venturing to lift her eyes , `` You yourself have told me , Sir , that Colonel Hargrave is a man of gallantry , and , believe me , with such a man I should be most miserable . '' 
`` Come , come , Laura , '' said Montreville , putting his arm round her , `` confess , that some little fit of jealousy made you answer Hargrave unkindly at first , and that now a little female pride , or the obstinacy of which we used to accuse you fifteen years ago , makes you unwilling to retract . '' 
`` No , indeed , '' returned Laura , with emotion , `` Colonel Hargrave has never given me cause to be jealous of his affection . 
`` She would at least have no right to complain , '' returned Laura , `` if , knowing them , she chose to make the hazardous experiment . '' 
Laura held down her head , and , for a moment , surrendered her fancy to prospects , rainbow-like , bright but unreal . 
Spite of the dictates of sober sense , the vision was cheering ; and a smile dimpled her cheek while she said , `` But since this reformation is so easy and so certain , would it be a grievous delay to wait for its appearance ? '' 
`` Ah Laura ! '' 
Montreville began , `` this is no time for -- '' `` Nay , now , '' interrupted Laura , sportively laying her hand upon his mouth , `` positively I will be no more lectured to-night . 
`` You are a spoiled girl , '' said Montreville , fondly caressing her , and he dropped the subject with the less reluctance , because he believed that his wishes , aided as he perceived they were , by an advocate in Laura 's own breast , were in a fair train for accomplishment . 
He little knew how feeble was the influence of inclination over the decisions of her self-controling spirit . 
To prevent him from returning to the topic he had quitted , she read aloud to him till his hour of rest ; and then retired to her chamber to labour as formerly , till the morning was far advanced . 
Laura had it now in her power to discharge her debt to the surgeon , and she was resolved that it should immediately be paid . 
When , therefore , he called in the morning to make his daily visit , she met him before he entered Montreville 's chamber , and requested to speak with him in the parlour . 
She began by saying , she feared that medicine could be of little use to her father , to which Dr Flint readily assented , declaring , in his dry way , that generous food and open air would benefit him more than all the drugs in London . 
Laura begged him to say explicitly so to the Captain , and to give that as a reason for declining to make him any more professional visits . 
She then presented him with a paper containing four guineas , which she thought might be the amount of his claim . 
Laura , who having now no favour to beg , no debt that she was unable to pay , was no longer ashamed of her poverty , easily opened to Dr Flint so much of her situation as was necessary to instruct him in the part he had to act with Montreville . 
He made no offer to continue his visits , even as an acquaintance , but readily undertook all that Laura required of him , adding , `` Indeed , Miss Montreville , I should have told your father long ago that physic was useless to him , but whimsical people must have something to amuse them , and if he had not paid for my pills , he would for some other man 's . '' 
Laura 's mind was much relieved by her having settled this affair to her wish ; and when the Doctor was gone , she sat down cheerfully to her drawing . 
Her meeting with Hargrave had lightened her heart of a load which had long weighed upon it more heavily than she was willing to allow ; and , spite of poverty , she was cheerful . 
`` I have now only hunger and toil to endure , '' thought she , smiling as gaily as if hunger and toil had been trifles ; `` but light will be my labours , for by them I can in part pay back my debt of life to my dear kind father . 
I am no more forlorn and deserted , for he is come who is sunshine to Laura 's soul . 
Thy step , when feeble with age , shall still be music to Laura 's ear . 
Casting these thoughts into the wild extempore measures which are familiar to the labourers of her native mountains See Jamieson 's Popular Ballads , Vol . 
p. 558. , Laura was singing them to one of the affecting melodies of her country , her sweet voice made more sweet by the magic of real tenderness , when the door opened , and Hargrave himself entered . 
He came resolved to exert all his influence , to urge every plea which the affection of Laura would allow him , in order to extort her consent to their immediate union ; and he was too well convinced of his power to be very diffident of success . 
Laura ceased her song in as much confusion as if her visitor had understood the language in which it was composed , or could have known himself to be the subject of it . 
He had been listening to its close , and now urged her to continue it , but was unable to prevail . 
He knew that she was particularly sensible to the charms of music . 
He had often witnessed the effect of her own pathetic voice upon her feelings ; and he judged that no introduction could be more proper to a conference in which he intended to work upon her sensibility . 
He therefore begged her to sing a little plaintive air with which she had often drawn tears from his eyes . 
But Laura knew that , as her father was still in bed , she could not without rudeness avoid a long tte  tte with Hargrave , and therefore she did not choose to put her composure to any unnecessary test . 
`` They are , indeed , '' replied Laura , gaily , `` I hope you have no intention to make them otherwise . '' 
said Laura , anxious to avoid a trail of strength in a sentimental conference . 
`` Nay , '' said Laura , `` if you look so tremendous I shall retreat without hearing you at all . '' 
Hargrave , who instantly saw that he had not chosen the right road to victory , checked his rising choler -- `` Laura , '' said he , `` you have yourself made me the victim of a passion ungovernable -- irresistible ; and it is cruel -- it is ungenerous in you to sport with my uneasiness . '' 
`` Do not give the poor passion such hard names , '' said Laura , smiling . 
`` Because , '' answered Laura , `` it is weak , it is sinful , to submit unresisting to the bondage of an imperious passion . '' 
`` Take care how you furnish me with arguments against yourself , '' returned Laura , laughing . 
`` Be serious Laura , I implore you . 
Well do you know that my love can end only with my existence , but I should no longer be distracted with these tumultuous hopes and fears if -- '' `` Oh , '' cried Laura , interrupting him , `` hope is too pleasing a companion for you to wish to part with that ; and , '' added she , a smile and a blush contending upon her cheek , `` I begin to believe that your fears are not very troublesome . '' 
`` Ah Laura , '' said Hargrave sorrowfully , '' you know not what you say . 
`` You forget , Colonel Hargrave , '' said Laura , again taking sanctuary in an appearance of coldness ; `` you forget that six months ago I fixed two years of rectitude as the test of your repentance , and that you were then satisfied with my decision . '' 
`` I would then have blessed you for any sentence that left me a hope , however distant ; but now the time when I may claim your promise seems at such a hopeless distance -- Oh Laura , let me but prevail with you ; and I will bind myself by the most solemn oaths to a life of unsullied purity . '' 
`` No oaths , '' replied Laura with solemnity , `` can strengthen the ties that already bind you to a life of purity . 
As she spoke , unusual animation sparkled in her eyes , and tinged her ' delicate cheek with brighter colouring . 
said Laura , `` even your affection would fail to bless a heart conscious of acting wrong . '' 
`` Where is the wrong , '' said Hargrave , gathering hope from the relenting tenderness of her voice , `` Where is the wrong of yielding to the strongest impulse of nature -- or , to speak in language more like your own , where is the guilt of submitting to an ordinance of Heaven 's own appointment ? '' 
`` Why , '' replied Laura , `` will you force me to say what seems unkind ? 
Laura shook her head . 
`` Ah Hargrave , '' said she , with a heavy sigh , `` before you can love and practice the purity which reaches the heart , far other loves must warm , far other motives inspire you . '' 
`` Be but thou and thy matchless beauty the prize , and every difficulty is light , every sacrifice trivial , '' `` In little more than a year , '' said Laura , `` I shall perhaps ask some proofs of the influence you ascribe to me ; but till then '' -- `` Long , long before that time , '' cried Hargrave , striking his forehead in agony , `` you will be lost to me for ever , '' and he paced the room in seeming despair . '' 
Laura looked at him with a pity no unmixed with surprise . 
`` Hear me for a moment , '' said she , with the soothing voice and gentle aspect , which had always the mastery of Hargrave 's feelings , and he was instantly at her side , listening with eagerness to every tone that she uttered , intent on every variation of her countenance . 
Laura , why this new , this intolerable restriction -- What can induce you thus wilfully to torment me ? '' 
`` Because , '' answered the blushing Laura , with all her natural simplicity , `` because I might not always be able to listen to reason and duty rather than to you . '' 
But Laura , to whose mind his caresses ever recalled a dark page in her story , recoiled as from pollution , the glow of ingenuous modesty giving place to the paleness of horror . 
No words envenomed with the bitterest malice , could have stung Hargrave to such frenzy as the look and the shudder with which Laura drew back from his embrace . 
His eyes flashed fire , his pale lips quivering with passion , he reproached her with perfidy and deceit ; accused her of veiling her real aversion under the mask of prudence and principle ; and execrated his own folly in submitting so long to be the sport of a cold-hearted , tyrannical , obdurate woman . 
Laura stood for some minutes gazing on him with calm compassion . 
But displeased at his groundless accusations , she disdained to sooth his rage . 
At last , weary of language which , for the present , expressed much more of hatred than of love , she quietly moved towards the door . 
`` I hope you soon will be so , '' replied Laura coldly . 
`` That must be as you please , Sir , '' said Laura , with spirit ; `` but , for the present , I must be excused from attending you . '' 
She then retired to her own chamber , which immediately adjoined to the painting-room ; and with tears reflected on the faint prospect of happiness that remained for the wife of a man whose passions were so ungovernable . 
Even the ardour of his love , for which vanity would have found ready excuse in many a female breast , was to Laura subject of unfeigned regret , as excluding him from the dominion of better motives , and from the pursuit of nobler ends . 
In a few minutes he was perfectly collected , and the first act of his returning reason was to upbraid him with his treatment of Laura . 
Hargrave wondered whether Laura would return to conduct him to her father ; feared that she would not -- hoped that she would -- thought he heard her footstep -- listened -- sighed -- and tried to beguile the time by turning over her drawings . 
`` This must be accident , '' said he ; `` De Courcy is far from London -- yet it is very like ; and he longed more than ever for Laura 's appearance . 
One of the passages so marked was that which begins , `` Thy pencil traces on the lover 's thought Some cottage home , from towns and toil remote , Where love and lore may claim alternate hours , '' & c. And Hargrave surrendered himself to the pleasing dream that Laura had thought of him , while she approved the lines . 
`` Her name , written by her own snowy fingers , may be here , '' said he , and he turned to the title-page , that he might press it , with a lover 's folly , to his lips -- The title-page was inscribed with the name of Montague De Courcy . 
And without any wish but to exclude her for ever from his sight , he rushed like a madman out of the house . 
He darted forward , regardless of the snow that was falling on his uncovered head , till it suddenly occurred to him that he would not suffer her to triumph in the belief of having deceived him . 
`` No , '' said he , `` I will once more see that deceitful face ; reproach her with her treachery ; enjoy her confusion , and then spurn her from me for ever . '' 
He returned precipitately to the house ; and , flying up stairs , saw Laura , the traces of melancholy reflection on her countenance , waiting for admission at her father 's door . 
`` Not for a moment , Sir , '' said Laura , laying her hand upon the lock . 
`` Yes , by Heaven , you shall hear me , '' cried Hargrave ; and rudely seizing her he forced her into the painting-room , and bolted the door . 
Laura looked at the drawing , then at the book , and at once understood the cause of her lover 's frenzy . 
Sincere compassion filled her heart ; yet she felt how unjust was the treatment which she received ; and , with calm dignity said , `` I will answer all your questions , and then you will judge whether you have deserved that I should do so . '' 
`` That is the portrait of De Courcy , '' replied Laura with the simple majesty of truth . 
That book too is his , '' and she stooped to lift it from the ground . 
With quiet self-possession , Laura continued , `` Mr De Courcy 's father was , as you know , the friend of mine . 
answered Laura , `` I will not say so , for he must be loved wherever his virtues are known ; but I have no regard for him that should disquiet you . 
It is not such , '' continued she , struggling with the rising tears -- `` it is not such as would pardon outrage , and withstand neglect , and humble itself before unjust aspersion . '' 
`` Oh Laura , '' said Hargrave , at once convinced and softened , `` I must believe you , or my heart will burst . '' 
`` I have a right to be believed , '' returned Laura , endeavouring to rally her spirits . 
Tears , which she could no longer repress , now streamed down Laura 's cheeks , while she said , `` How could you suspect me of the baseness of pretending a regard which I did not feel , of confirming engagements from which my affections revolted ! '' 
But Laura , vexed and ashamed of her weakness , insisted on her release in a tone that would be obeyed , and Hargrave , too much humbled to be daring , unwillingly suffered her to retire . 
In the faint hope of seeing her again , he waited till Montreville was ready to admit him ; but Laura was not with her father , nor did she appear during the remainder of his visit . 
Desirous to know in what light she had represented their affairs , in order that his statement might tally with hers , he again avoided the subject , resolving that next day he should be better prepared to enter upon it . 
With this view , he returned to Montreville 's lodgings early in the next forenoon , hoping for an opportunity to consult with Laura before seeing her father . 
He waited long , but Laura came not . 
He sent a message to beg that she would admit him , and was answered that she was sorry it was not in her power . 
He again saw Montreville without entering upon the subject so near his heart ; and left the house without obtaining even a glimpse of Laura . 
He indeed saw Laura , but it was only in the presence of her father , and she gave him no opportunity of addressing her particularly . 
Finding that she adhered to the resolution she had expressed , of seeing him no more without witnesses , he wrote to her , warmly remonstrating against the barbarity of her determination , and beseeching her to depart from it , if only in a single instance . 
The billet received no answer , and Laura continued to act as before . 
In conclusion , he assured Laura that he could not longer refrain from confiding his situation to her father ; and entreated to see her , were it only to learn in what terms she would permit him to mention their engagement . 
This letter was rather more successful than the former ; for , though Laura made no reply to the first part , she answered the close by a few cautious lines , leaving Hargrave , excepting in one point , at full liberty as to his communications with her father . 
He informed him that he had reason to believe himself not indifferent to Laura ; but that , some of his little irregularities coming to her knowledge , she had sentenced him to a probation which was yet to continue for above a year . 
But he took instant refuge in the idea that he had no choice left ; and that , if there was any blame , it in fact belonged to Laura , for forcing him to use concealment . 
He proceeded to assure Montreville , that though he must plead guilty to a few youthful indiscretions , Laura might rely upon his constancy and fidelity . 
Montreville answered , that he had long desisted from the use of authority with Laura , but that his influence was at the Colonel 's service ; and he added , with a smile , that he believed neither would be very necessary . 
In consequence of this promise , Montreville sought an opportunity of conversing on this subject with his daughter ; but she shewed such extreme reluctance to enter upon it , and avoided it with such sedulous care , that he could not immediately execute his design . 
He observed , too , that she looked ill , that she was pale and languid . 
Though she would not confess any ailment , he could not help fearing that all was not right ; and he waited the appearance of recovered strength , ere he should enter on a topic which was never heard by her without strong emotion . 
But Laura looked daily more wretched . 
Her complexion became wan , her eyes sunk , and her lips colourless . 
Indeed watching and abstinence , though the chief , were not the only causes of Laura 's sickly aspect . 
Successful love shedding a placid gentleness upon his really polished manners , he had , without intention to deceive , completely misled Laura 's judgment of his character . 
Now he had turned her eyes from the vision , and compelled her to look upon the reality ; and with many a bitter tear she lamented that ever she suffered her peace to depend upon an union which , even if accomplished , promised to compensate transient rapture with abiding disquiet . 
But still fondly attached , Laura took pleasure in persuading herself that a mere defect of temper was not such a fault as entitled her to withdraw her promise ; and having made this concession , she soon proceeded to convince herself , that Hargrave 's love would make ample amends for occasional suffering , however severe . 
Still she assured herself that if , at the stipulated time , he produced not proofs of real improvement , much more if that period were stained with actual vice , she would , whatever it might cost her , see him no more . 
She determined to let nothing move her to shorten his probation , nor to be satisfied without the strictest scrutiny into the manner in which it had been spent . 
Aware of the difficulty of withstanding the imploring voice , the pleading eyes of Hargrave , she would not venture into temptation for the mere chance of escape ; and adhered to her resolution of affording him no opportunity to practise on her sensibility . 
Nor was this a slight exercise of self-denial , for no earthly pleasure could bring such joy to Laura 's heart , as the assurance , however oft repeated , that she was beloved . 
Yet , day after day , she withstood his wishes and her own ; and generally spent the time of his visits in drawing . 
Meanwhile , her delicate face and slender form gave daily greater indications of malady . 
Montreville , extremely alarmed , insisted upon sending for medical advice ; but Laura , with a vehemence most unusual to her , opposed this design , telling him , that if he persisted in it , vexation would cause the reality of the illness which at present was merely imaginary . 
The Captain was however the only member of the family who did not conjecture the true cause of Laura 's decay . 
The servant who attended her , reported to her mistress , that the slender repast was always presented , untouched by Laura , to her father ; that her drink was only water , her fare coarse and scanty ; and that often a few morsels of dry bread were the only sustenance of the day . 
Mrs Stubbs , who entertained a suitable contempt for poverty , was no sooner informed of these circumstances , than she recollected with indignation the awe with which Laura had involuntarily inspired her ; and determined to withdraw part of her misplaced respect . 
But Laura had an air of command , a quiet majesty of demeanour , that seemed destined to distance vulgar impertinence ; and Mrs Stubbs was compelled to continue her unwilling reverence . 
Determined , however , that though her pride might suffer , her interest should not , she dropped such hints as induced Laura to offer the payment of the lodgings a week in advance , an offer which was immediately accepted . 
In spite of Laura 's utmost diligence , this arrangement left her almost pennyless . 
She was obliged , in that inclement season , to give up even the comfort of a fire ; and more than once passed the whole night in labouring to supply the wants of the following day . 
In the meantime , Hargrave continued to pay his daily visits , and Laura to frustrate all his attempts to speak with her apart . 
His patience was entirely exhausted . 
He urged Montreville to the performance of his promise , and Montreville often approached the subject with his daughter , but she either evaded it , or begged with such pathetic earnestness to be spared a contest which she was unable to bear , that , when he looked on the sickly delicacy of her frame , he had not courage to persecute her farther . 
Convinced , however , that Laura 's affections were completely engaged , he became daily more anxious that she should not sacrifice them to what he considered as mistaken prudence ; especially since Hargrave had dropped a hint , which , though not so intended , had appeared to Montreville to import , that his addresses , if rejected in the present instance , would not be renewed at the distant date to which Laura chose to postpone them . 
To hints of his apprehensions for his own life , succeeded direct intimations of his conviction that his end was approaching ; and Laura listened , with every gradation of terror , to prophetic forebodings of the solitude , want , and temptation , to which she must soon be abandoned . 
Pressed by Hargrave 's importunities , and weary of waiting for a voluntary change in Laura 's conduct towards her lover , Montreville at last resolved that he would force the subject which she was so anxious to shun . 
For this purpose , detaining her one morning in his apartment , he entered on a melancholy description of the perils which await unprotected youth and beauty ; and explicitly declared his conviction , that to these perils he must soon leave his child . 
Laura endeavoured , as she was wont , to brighten his dark imagination , and to revive his fainting hope . 
But Montreville would now neither suffer her to enliven his prospects , nor to divert him from the contemplation of them . 
He persisted in giving way to his dismal anticipations , till , spite of her efforts , Laura 's spirits failed her , and she could scarcely refrain from shedding tears . 
Montreville saw that she was affected ; and fondly putting his arm round her , continued , `` Yet still , my sweet Laura , you , who have been the pride of my life , you can soften to me the bitterness of death . 
`` Oh Sir , '' said Laura , `` I beseech , I implore you to spare me on this subject . '' 
I must recur to '' -- `` My dear father , '' interrupted Laura , `` I have already spoken to you on this subject -- spoken to you with a freedom which I know not where I found courage to assume . 
`` Long , long , '' cried Laura , clasping his neck , `` be your affection my joy -- long be your arms my shelter . 
`` Laura , you carry your scruples too far . 
`` Ah Sir , '' said Laura , who from mere despair of escape gathered courage to pursue the subject , `` What peace can I hope to find in a connexion which reason and religion alike condemn ? '' 
`` My dear Sir , '' cried Laura impatiently , `` how can you employ such qualifying language to express -- what my soul sickens at . 
`` Yes , '' returned Laura , all the glow of virtuous animation fading to the paleness of anguish , `` if his vices make him vile , I must call it so . '' 
`` Your language is as much too free , Laura , as your notions are too rigid . 
`` Oh my father , '' cried Laura , sinking on her knees , `` my spirit is already bowed to the earth -- do not crush it with your displeasure . 
`` My heart 's treasure , '' said Montreville , kissing the tears from her eyes , `` short is every my displeasure with thee : for I know that though inexperience may mislead thy judgment , no pleasure can bribe , no fear betray thy inflexible rectitude . 
`` Would that I were above to convince you , '' returned Laura , `` and then you would no longer add to the difficulties of this fearful struggle . 
`` But I , `` returned Laura , `` when I took upon me the honoured name of Christian , by that very act became bound that the opinion of the world should not regulate my principles , nor its customs guide my practice . 
continued Laura , forgetting in the deformity of the hideous image that it was capable of individual application , `` words can not express the energy of my abhorrence ! '' 
cried Laura , almost with a shriek , `` Oh God forbid -- And yet '' -- She covered her face with her hands , and cold drops stood on her forehead , as she remembered how just cause she had to dread that the portrait might be his . 
`` Joyfully will I forgive , '' replied Laura , `` when I am assured that they are indeed abhorred and forsaken -- '' `` They are already forsaken , '' said Montreville ; `` it rests with you to confirm Hargrave in the right , by consenting to his wishes . '' 
`` I ask but the conviction which time alone can bring , '' said Laura , `` and then '' -- `` And how will you bear it , Laura , if , weary of your perverse delays , Hargrave should relinquish his suit ? 
`` Better , far better , '' answered Laura , `` than to watch the deepening of those shades of iniquity , that close at last into outer darkness : better than to see each guilty day advance and seal our eternal separation . 
To lose his affection , '' continued she with a sickly smile , `` I would bear as I strive to bear my other burdens ; and should they at last prove too heavy for me , they can but weigh me to the earth , where they and I must soon rest together . '' 
`` Oh take pity on me , '' Laura would have said , and `` league not with my weak heart to betray me , '' but convulsive sobs were all that she could utter . 
`` You consent then , '' said Montreville , choosing so to interpret her silence -- `` you have yielded to my entreaties , and made me the happiest of fathers . '' 
cried Laura , tossing her arms distractedly , `` I will do right though my heart should break . 
`` Oh most merciful , most gracious , '' cried Laura , clasping her hands , and raising her eyes in resigned anguish , `` wilt thou suffer me to be tempted above what I am able to bear ! 
`` Hear me but for one moment more , '' said Montreville , who from the violence of her emotion gathered hopes of success . 
cried Laura , `` I must leave you while yet I have the power to do right . '' 
And , darting from his presence , she shut herself into her chamber . 
There , falling on her knees , she mingled bitter expressions of anguish , with fervent prayers for support , and piteous appeals for mercy . 
Becoming by degrees more composed , she endeavoured to fortify her resolution by every argument of reason and religion which had formerly guided her determination . 
She turned to the passages of Scripture which forbid the unequal yoke with the unbeliever ; convinced that the prohibition applies no less to those whose lives are unchristian , than to those whose faith is unsound . 
She asked herself whether she was able to support those trials -LRB- the severest of all earthly ones , -RRB- which the wife of a libertine must undergo ; and whether , in temptations which she voluntarily sought , and sorrows which she of choice encountered , she should be entitled to expect the Divine support . 
Yet , as oft as her father 's entreaties rose to her recollection , joined with the image of Hargrave -- of Hargrave beseeching , of Hargrave impassioned -- Laura 's resolution faltered ; and half-desirous to deceive herself , she almost doubted of the virtue of that firmness that could withstand a parent 's wish . 
But Laura was habitually suspicious of every opinion that favoured her inclinations , habitually aware of the deceitfulness of her own heart ; and she did not , unquestioned , harbour for a moment the insidious thought that flattered her strongest wishes . 
`` And had my father commanded me to marry where I was averse , '' said she , `` would I then have hesitated ? 
In thoughts and struggles like these , Laura passed the day alone . 
Montreville , though disappointed at his ill success with his daughter , was not without hope that a lover 's prayers might prevail where a father 's were ineffectual ; and believing that the season of Laura 's emotion was a favourable one for the attempt , he was anxious for the daily visit of Hargrave . 
But , for the first time since his meeting with Laura , Hargrave did not appear . 
In her present frame , Laura felt his absence almost a relief ; but Montreville was uneasy and half alarmed . 
Abruptly grasping Montreville 's hand , he said , in the voice of one struggling for composure , `` Have you performed your promise -- have you spoken with Laura ? '' 
`` I have , '' answered Montreville ; `` and have urged her , till , had you seen her , you would yourself have owned that I went too far . 
But you look '' -- `` Has she consented , '' interrupted Hargrave -- `` will she give herself to me ? '' 
`` Her affections are wholly yours , '' said he , `` you may yourself be more successful -- I fervently wish that you may . 
`` Nothing , nothing , '' said Hargrave , `` ask me no questions ; but let me speak instantly with Laura . '' 
`` You shall see her , '' returned Montreville , opening the door , and calling Laura , `` Only I beseech you to command yourself , for my poor child is already half distracted . '' 
`` She is the fitter to converse with me , '' said Hargrave , with a ghastly smile , `` for I am upon the very verge of madness . '' 
Laura came at her father 's summons ; but when she saw Hargrave , the colour faded from her face , an universal tremor seized her , she stopped , and leaned on the door for support . 
`` I can not , '' answered Laura , in words scarcely audible -- `` this night I can not , '' `` I command you to go , '' said the father in a tone which he had seldom employed , and Laura instantly prepared to go . 
`` Surely , surely , '' said she , `` Heaven will not leave me to my own weakness , whilst I act in obedience to you . '' 
Perceiving that she trembled violently , Hargrave offered her the support of his circling arm ; but Laura instantly disengaged herself . 
`` Will you not lean on me , dearest Laura , '' said he ; `` perhaps it is for the last time . '' 
`` I hope , '' answered Laura , endeavouring to exert her spirit , `` it will be the last time that you will avail yourself of my father 's authority to constrain me . '' 
`` Spare your reproaches , Laura , '' said Hargrave , `` for I am desperate . 
They entered the parlour , and Laura , sinking into a seat , covered her eyes with her hand , and strove to prepare for answering this new call upon her firmness . 
Fain would he have framed a resistless petition ; for the events of that day had hastened the unravelling of a tale which , once known to Laura , would , he knew , make all his petitions vain . 
But his impatient spirit could not wait to conciliate ; and , seizing her hand , he said , with breathless eagerness , `` Laura , you once said that you loved me , and I believed you . 
Astonished at his words , alarmed by the ill-suppressed vehemence of his manner , Laura tried to read his altered countenance , and feared she knew not what . 
said she . 
A hectic of resentment kindled in Laura 's cheek at the threat of desertion which she imagined to lurk beneath the words of Hargrave . 
said Laura . 
Oh Laura , thus on my knees I conjure you to have pity on me ; -- or , if it will cost you a pang to lose me , have pity on yourself . 
`` Oh Hargrave , '' cried Laura , bursting into tears , `` how have I deserved that you should lay on me this heavy load -- that you should force me to resist the entreaties of my father . '' 
`` Nothing shall move me , '' said Laura , with the firmness of despair , `` for I am used to misery , and will bear it . '' 
`` Oh for mercy , '' cried the terrified Laura , `` talk not so dreadfully . 
But wilt thou cleave to me in -- '' `` In what , '' said Laura . 
Softened by his imploring looks and gestures , overpowered by his vehemence , harassed beyond her strength , Laura seemed almost expiring . 
`` Cease to importune me , '' said she ; -- `` everlasting were my cause of repentance , should I wilfully do wrong . 
Fire flashed from the eyes of Hargrave , as , starting from her feet , he cried , in a voice of frenzy , `` Ungrateful woman , you have never loved me ! 
`` Oh no , '' cried Laura , in an agony of terror , `` I will pray for you -- pity you , -- what shall I say -- love you as never man was loved . 
`` I must not fear consequences , '' said Laura , trembling in every limb . 
cried Hargrave , and frantickly straining her to his breast , he rushed out of the room . 
Surprise , confusion , a thousand various feelings kept Laura for a while motionless ; till , Hargrave 's parting words ringing in her ear , a dreadful apprehension took possession of her mind . 
But Hargrave was already beyond the reach of her voice ; and , sinking to the ground , the wretched Laura found refuge from her misery in long and deep insensibility . 
In the attitude in which she had fallen , her lily arms extended on the ground , her death-like cheek resting upon one of them , she was found by a servant who accidentally entered the room , and whose cries soon assembled the family . 
Montreville alarmed hastened down stairs , and came in just as the maid with the assistance of the landlady was raising Laura , to all appearance dead . 
`` Oh Laura , '' he cried , clasping her lifeless form , `` my only comfort -- my good -- my gentle -- my blameless child , hast thou nourished thy father with thy life ! 
Then laying his cheek to hers , `` Oh she is cold -- cold as clay , '' he cried , and the father wrung his hands , and sobbed like an infant . 
The tender-hearted Fanny remained with Laura , and at last succeeded in restoring her to animation . 
She then persuaded her to swallow a little wine , and endeavoured to prevail upon her to retire to bed . 
But Laura refused . 
`` No , my kind , good girl , '' said she , laying her arm gratefully on Fanny 's shoulder , `` I must see my father before I sleep . 
Fanny then besought her so earnestly not to go to the Captain 's chamber , that Laura , filled as every thought was with Hargrave , took alarm , and would not be detained . 
`` Let me go , '' cried Laura , struggling with her , `` he is ill : I am sure he is ill , or he would have come to watch and comfort his wretched child . '' 
Fanny then with all the gentleness in her power , informed Laura that Montreville , alarmed by the sight of her fainting , had been suddenly taken ill . 
Laura , in terror which effaced the remembrance of all her former anguish , scarcely suffered her attendant to finish her relation ; but broke from her , and hurried as fast as her tottering limbs would bear her to her father 's chamber . 
Softly , on tiptoe , she stole to his bed-side . 
Laura shuddered convulsively , and shrunk back in horror . 
But the dread of scaring the spirit from its frail tenement suppressed the cry that was rising to her lips . 
Trembling she laid her hand upon his . 
`` Laura , my beloved , '' said he , drawing her gently towards him , `` thou hast been the joy of my life . 
Laura tried to speak the words of hope ; but the sounds died upon her lips . 
The weeping Laura sank upon her knees , and Montreville laid one hand upon her head , while she still held the other , as if wishing to detain him . 
Exhausted by the effort which he had made , Montreville sunk back on his pillow ; and Laura , in agony of supplication , besought Heaven to spare him to her . 
she inwardly ejaculated , `` if it be possible , save me , oh save me from this fearful stroke , -- or take me in pity from this desolate wilderness to the rest of the chosen . '' 
The dead of night came on , and all but the wretched Laura was still . 
Laura thought he slept , and stifled even her sighs , lest they should awake him . 
In the stillness of the dead , but in agony of suspense that baffles description , she continued to kneel by his bed-side , and to return his relaxing grasp , till she felt a gentle pressure of her hand , and looked up to interpret the gesture . 
For more than a year Laura had furnished the animating principle which kept life from stagnation . 
When she was present , her beauty , her reserve , her ill-concealed affection , kept his passions in constant play . 
In her absence , the interpretation of looks and gestures of which she had been unconscious , and the anticipation of concessions which she thought not of making , furnished occupation for the many hours which , for want of literary habits , Colonel Hargrave was obliged to pass in solitude and leisure , when deprived of fashionable company , public amusements , and tolerable romances . 
The departure of Laura , therefore , deprived him at once of the only society that amused , and the only object that interested him . 
He had some suspicion that it was not entitled to the full approbation of the `` wise , the pious , the soberminded '' observers , whom he imagined that Laura had charged with the inspection of his conduct ; and he reflected , with a mixture of fear and impatience , that by them every action would be reported to Laura , with all the aggravation of illiberal comment . 
His thoughts dissipated , and his vanity gratified , his passion had never , since its first existence , been so little troublesome as during his stay in Edinburgh ; and once or twice , as he caught a languishing glance from a gay young heiress , he thought he had been a little precipitate in changing his first designs in regard to Laura . 
the races endure only for one short week ; Edinburgh was deserted by its glittering birds of passage ; and Hargrave returned to his quarters , to solitude , and to the conviction that , however obtained , the possession of Laura was necessary to his peace . 
Finding that her return was as uncertain as ever , he resolved to follow her to London ; and the caution of Mrs Douglas baffling his attempts to procure her address from any other quarter , he contrived to obtain it by bribing one of the under attendants of the Post-Office to transcribe for him the superscription of a letter to Miss Montreville . 
Delighted with his success , he could not refuse himself the triumph of making it known to Mrs Douglas ; and , by calling to ask her commands for her young friend , occasioned the letter of caution from her to Laura , which has been formerly mentioned . 
The moment he reached London , he hastened to make inquiries after the abode of Captain Montreville ; but his search was disappointed by the accidents which he afterwards related to Laura . 
Day after day , he hoped that Laura , by sending to Mr Baynard 's chambers , would afford him the means of discovering her residence . 
Meanwhile Hargrave 's duty called him to Scotland , where Lady Bellamer and all her rivals in his attention were entirely forgotten amidst the superior attractions of Laura ; attractions which acted with all the force of novelty upon a heart accustomed to parry only premeditated attacks , and to resist charms that were merely corporeal . 
Once or twice , the composed grace , the artless majesty of Laura , rose to his recollection , and he looked absent and thoughtful . 
Hargrave heard her with a disgust which he scarcely strove to conceal ; for at that moment Laura stood before him , bewitching in chastened love -- respectable in saintly purity . 
In fancy he again saw through her casement the wringing of those snowy hands , those eyes raised in agony , and the convulsive heavings of that bosom which mourned his unlooked-for baseness ; and he turned from Lady Bellamer , inwardly cursing the hour when his vows to Laura were sacrificed to a wanton . 
The very day after this interview was that in which he accidentally encountered Laura ; and from that moment his whole desire was to make her his own , before public report should acquaint her with his guilt . 
He durst not trust to the strength of her affection for the pardon of so foul an offence . 
He could not hope that she would again place confidence in vows of reformation which had been so grossly violated . 
When the proper self-distrust of Laura refused him the opportunity of making a personal appeal to her sensibilities , he hoped that her father might successfully plead his cause ; and that before his guilt was known to her , he might have made it at once her interest and her duty to forget it . 
She flew to Hargrave 's lodgings , and found him preparing for his daily visit to Laura . 
Though provoked at being delayed , he was obliged to stay and listen to her , while she hastily related the events of the morning . 
She was about to speak of her conviction that , by making her his wife , he would shield her from the world 's scorn , and that he would not , by any legal defence , retard her emancipation . 
It must immediately find its way into the public prints ; and in a few hours it might be in the hands of Laura . 
Nothing , in the slight consideration of death which Hargrave suffered to enter his mind , gave him so much disturbance as the thought that he might , if he fell , leave Laura to the possession of another . 
He willingly persuaded himself that she had an attachment to him too romantic to be transferable . 
But she was poor ; she might in time make a marriage of esteem and convenience ; and Laura , the virtuous Laura , would certainly love her husband , and the father of her children . 
The bare idea stung like a scorpion , and Hargrave hastened to his attorney , where he spent the time which yet remained before the hour of his appointment , in dictating a bequest of five thousand pounds to Laura Montreville ; but true to his purpose , he added a clause , by which , in case of her marriage , she forfeited the whole . 
To his own seared conscience his crimes might have seemed trivial ; but when he placed them before him in the light in which he knew that they would be viewed by Laura , their nature seemed changed . 
He knew that she would find no plea in the custom of the times , for endangering the life of a fellow-creature , and that her moral vocabulary contained no qualifying epithet to palliate the foulness of adultery . 
The next day would give publicity to his duel and its cause ; and should the report reach Laura 's ear , what could he hope from her favour ? 
The bribes of love and ambition he had found too poor to purchase her sanction to the bare intention of a crime . 
Even the intention seemed forgiven only in the hope of luring him to the paths of virtue : and when she should know the failure of that hope , would not her forgiveness be withdrawn ? 
But Laura , thus on the point of being lost , was more dear to him than ever ; and often did he wish that he had fallen by Lord Bellamer 's hand , rather than that he should live to see himself the object of her indifference , perhaps aversion . 
Time still remained , however , by one desperate effort to hurry or terrify her into immediate compliance with his wishes ; and , half-distracted with the emotions of remorse , and love , and hope , and fear , he ordered his carriage to Montreville 's house . 
Hargrave was too much agitated to attend to the best methods of persuasion , and he quitted Laura in the full conviction that she would never be his wife . 
All night he paced his apartment , uttering imprecations on his own folly , and forming plans for regaining by fraud , force , or persuasion , his lost rights over Laura . 
It was not till next morning that he thought of inquiring after the unfortunate partner of his iniquity ; and was told that , too ill to be removed , she had been carried to bed in the house , where she still remained . 
Intending to renew the attempt of the preceding night , he again repaired early to Laura 's abode ; but his intention was frustrated by the death of Montreville . 
But that feeling was effaced when once he began to consider the event as favourable to his designs upon Laura . 
Left to solitude , to poverty , perhaps to actual want , what resource had she so eligible as the acceptance of offers splendid and disinterested like his . 
And he would urge her acceptance of them with all the ardour of passion . 
He would alarm her with the prospects of desolateness and dependence ; he would appeal to the wishes of her dead father . 
Such pleadings must , he thought , have weight with her ; and again the hopes of victory revived in his mind . 
Should the principle , to which she so firmly adhered , outweigh all these considerations , he thought she would forfeit by her obstinacy all claim to his forbearance , and his heart fluttered at the idea that she had now no protector from his power . 
He resolved to haunt , to watch her , to lose no opportunity of pressing his suit . 
Wherever she went he was determined to follow ; `` and surely , '' thought he , `` she must have some moments of weakness , she can not be always on her guard . '' 
For some days he continued to make regular visits at her lodgings , though he had no hope of seeing her till after Montreville was consigned to the dust ; and he rejoiced that the customary seclusion was likely to retard her knowledge of his misconduct . 
To make inquiries after the health and spirits of Laura , was the ostensible , but not the only motive of his visits . 
He wished to discover all that was known to the people of the house of her present situation and future plans . 
On the latter subject they could not afford him even the slightest information , for Laura had never dropped a hint of her intentions . 
But he received such accounts of her pecuniary distresses , and of the manner in which she supported them , as at once increased his reverence for her character , and his hopes that she would take refuge from her wants in the affluence which he offered her . 
From Fanny , who officiated as porter , and who almost adored Laura , he received most of his intelligence ; and while he listened to instances of the fortitude , the piety , the tenderness , the resignation of his beloved , a love of virtue , sincere though transient , would cross his soul ; he would look back with abhorrence on a crime which had hazarded the loss of such a treasure ; and vow , that , were he once possessed of Laura , his life should be a copy of her worth . 
On the day succeeding the funeral , he ventured on an attempt to see Laura , and sent her a message , begging permission to wait upon her ; but was answered that she received no visitors . 
He then wrote to her a letter full of the sentiments which she inspired . 
He expressed his sympathy with her misfortunes , and fervently besought her to accept of a protector who would outdo in tenderness the one whom she had lost . 
He implored her to add the strongest incentive to the course of virtue , in which , if she would listen to his request , he solemnly promised to persevere . 
He again insinuated that she must speedily decide ; that , if her decision were unfavourable , he might be driven to seek forgetfulness amidst ruinous dissipation ; and he adjured her , by the wishes of her dead father , a claim which he thought would with her be irresistible , to consent to dispense with his further probation . 
He said he would visit her late in the following forenoon , in the hope of receiving his answer from her own lips ; and concluded by telling her , that , lest the late unfortunate event had occasioned her any temporary difficulties , he begged to be considered as her banker , and enclosed a bill for a hundred pounds . 
Often did he repeat to himself that Laura must accede to his proposals . 
What other course could she pursue -- Would her spirit allow her to become a burden on the scanty income of her friend Mrs Douglas -- Would she venture to pursue , as a profession , the art in which she so greatly excelled -- Would she return to live alone at Glenalbert ? 
To obtain Laura was the first wish of his soul ; and he was not very fastidious as to the means of its gratification : for even the love of a libertine is selfish . 
He was perfectly sincere in his honourable proposals to Laura . 
He wished that he had fixed on an earlier one , took up a book to beguile the minutes , threw it down again , looked a hundred times at his watch , ordered his carriage to the door two hours before it was wanted , feared to go too soon , lest Laura should refuse to see him , and yet was at her lodgings long before his appointment . 
He inquired for her , and was answered that she had discharged her lodgings , and was gone . 
Restless , and yet unwilling to be gone , he next wandered into Laura 's painting-room , as if hoping in her once-favourite haunt to find traces of her flight . 
He imagined that Laura , while she concealed herself from him , had taken refuge with the De Courcys ; and all his jealousy returned . 
He stopped to renew his inquiries whether any thing was known , or guessed , of Laura 's retreat . 
But Mrs Stubbs could give him no more information on the subject than her maid , and she was infinitely more surprised at his question than Fanny had been : for having made certain observations which convinced her that Hargrave 's visits were in the character of a lover , she had charitably concluded , and actually asserted , that Laura had accepted of his protection . 
Hargrave next inquired whether Laura had any visitors but himself ? 
In this belief he returned home , uncertain what measures he should pursue , but determined not to rest till he had found Laura . 
When De Courcy quitted Laura , he had no intention of seeing her again till circumstances should enable him to offer her his hand . 
He returned to his former studies , and even prosecuted them with alacrity , for he knew that Laura respected a cultivated mind . 
His faults , he was if possible more than ever studious to correct , for Laura loved virtue . 
And when occasion for a kind considerate or self-denying action presented itself , he eagerly seized it , saying in his heart , `` this is like Laura . '' 
Sometimes the fear that he might be forgotten , forced from him the bitterest sigh that he had ever breathed ; but he endeavoured to comfort himself with the belief that she would soon be screened from the gaze of admiration , and that her regard for him , though yet in its infancy , would be sufficient to secure her from other impressions . 
Of the reality of this regard he did not allow himself to doubt , or if he hesitated for a moment , he called to mind the picture , Laura 's concealment of it , her confusion at his attempt to examine it , and he no longer doubted . 
His efforts to be cheerful were however less successful , after Laura , in few melancholy lines , informed Miss De Courcy that Montreville 's increased illness made their return to Scotland more uncertain than ever . 
He imagined his dear Laura the solitary attendant of a sick-bed ; no kind voice to comfort , no friendly face to cheer her ; perhaps in poverty , that poverty increased too by the artifice which had used to lessen it . 
Every day the arrival of the letters was looked for with extreme solicitude in hope of more cheering news ; but every day brought disappointment , for Laura wrote no more . 
His mother shared in his anxiety , and increased it by expressing her own . 
She feared that Miss Montreville was ill , and unable to write ; and the image of Laura among strangers , sick and in poverty , obliterated Montague 's prudent resolutions of trusting himself no more in the presence of his beloved . 
He set out for London , and arrived at the door of Laura 's lodgings about an hour after she had quitted them . 
She gave him , as far as it was known to her , a full history of Laura 's adventures since he had seen her ; and , where she was deficient in facts , supplied the blank by conjecture . 
`` Besides , Miss Montreville had always such an air with her , that I could not for my very heart have asked her to take potluck with us . '' 
People must have ears , and use them too ; and I heard him myself swearing to her one day , that he loved her better than his life , or something to that purpose ; and that , if she would live with him , he would make her dreams pleasant , or some such stuff as that ; and now , as sure as can be , she has taken him at his word , and gone to him . '' 
De Courcy , shocked and disgusted , turned from her in displeasure ; and finding that nothing was to be learnt from her of the place of Laura 's retreat , betook himself to the print-shop , where he remembered that he had first procured Miss Montreville 's address . 
The happy dream was dispelled that painted him the master of Laura 's affections . 
Another possessed her love ; and how visible , how indelicately glaring , must be the preference that was apparent to every vulgar eye ! 
But , bitter as was his disappointment , and cruel the pangs of jealousy , they were ease compared to the torture with which he admitted a thought derogatory to Laura 's worth . 
A thousand times he reproached himself for suffering the hints and conjectures of a low-bred woman to affect his mind ; -- a thousand times assured himself , that no poverty , no difficulties , would overpower the integrity of Laura . 
Extremity of want -- lingering famine would not degrade her to this , '' -- and tears filled De Courcy 's manly eyes at the thought that Laura was indeed in want . 
He had no direct means of supplying her necessities ; but he hoped that she might inquire at her former abode for any letters that might chance to be left for her , and that she might thus receive any packet which he addressed to her . 
Before dispatching the letter , however , he resolved on making an attempt to discover whether Hargrave was acquainted with Laura 's retreat . 
His blood ran cold as he pictured to his fancy the exulting voice , the triumphant glance which would announce the master of Laura 's fate . 
But any thing was preferable to his present suspense ; and the hope that he might yet be useful to Laura , formed an incitement still more powerful . 
He made her repeat the particulars of Hargrave 's violent behaviour ; and satisfied from them that his rival had no share in Laura 's disappearance , he returned to his hotel , his heart lightened of half the heaviest load that ever it had borne . 
He could not doubt that Laura 's affections were Hargrave 's . 
Restless and uncomfortable , without any hope of finding Laura , he would now have left London without an hour 's delay . 
All was yet dark and still , when Laura , like some unearthly being , stood by the bed where Fanny slept . 
With noiseless steps Laura approached the body , and softly drew back the covering . 
She beckoned Fanny towards her . 
Laura answered not ; but raising her eyes to Heaven , as if there to seek assistance in her mournful task , she gently pressed her hand upon the half-closed eyes that had so often beamed fondness on her . 
Unaided , and in silence , she did the last offices of love . 
She shed no tears . 
She uttered no lamentation . 
The dread stillness was broken only by the groans that burst at times from her heavy heart , and the more continued sobs of her attendant , who vented in tears her fear , her pity , and her admiration . 
When the sad work was finished , Laura , still speechless , motioned to the servant to retire . 
In horror at the thoughts of leaving Laura alone with the dead , yet fearing to raise her voice , the girl respectfully grasped her mistress 's gown , and , in a low but earnest whisper , besought her to leave this dismal place , and to go to her own chamber . 
Scarcely sensible of her meaning , Laura suffered her to draw her away ; but when the door closed upon all that remained of her father , she shuddered convulsively , and struggled to return . 
Laura had been unable to bend her thoughts to the consideration of this subject ; and she answered only by her tears . 
In vain did Mrs Stubbs repeat that `` it was a folly to take on so , '' -- `` that we must all die ; '' `` and that as every thing has two handles , Laura might comfort herself that she would now have but one mouth to feed . '' 
Laura seemed obstinate in her grief , and at last Mrs Stubbs declared that whether she would hear reason or not , something must without delay be settled about the funeral ; as for her part she could not order things without knowing how they were to be paid for . 
Laura , putting her hand to her forehead , complained that her head felt confused , and , mildly begging her persecutor to have a little patience with her , promised , if she might be left alone for the present , to return to the conversation in half an hour . 
Accordingly , soon after the time appointed , the landlady was surprised to see Laura enter the parlour , her cheek indeed colourless and her eyes swelled with weeping , but her manner perfectly calm and collected . 
`` Here are my father 's watch and seals , '' said she , presenting them . 
That can not wound him now , '' -- and she turned away her head , and drew her hand across her eyes . 
`` Have the goodness , '' continued she , `` to order what is necessary , for I am a stranger , without any friend . '' 
`` Let every thing be plain , but decent , '' said Laura , `` and when I am able I will work day and night till all is paid . '' 
`` Tell me what you would have me to do , and I will do it , '' said the unfortunate Laura , wholly unable to contend with her hard-hearted companion . 
`` Take them , '' said Laura , `` I knew not that they were mine . '' 
Mrs Stubbs then conscientiously offered to give a fourth part of the sum which these toys had cost De Courcy three months before , an offer which Laura instantly accepted ; and the landlady having settled this business much to her own satisfaction , cheerfully undertook to arrange the obsequies of poor Montreville . 
Though the tragical scenes of the night had left Laura no leisure to dwell upon her fears for Hargrave , it was not without thankfulness that she heard of his safety and restored composure . 
Her mind was at first too much occupied by her recent loss , to attempt accounting for his extravagant behaviour ; and , after the first paroxysms of her sorrow were past , she retained but an imperfect recollection of his late conversation with her . 
She merely remembered his seeming distraction and threatened suicide ; and only bewildered herself by her endeavours to unravel his mysterious conduct . 
Sometimes a suspicion not very remote from the truth would dart into her mind ; but she quickly banished it , as an instance of the causeless fears that are apt to infest the hearts of the unfortunate . 
An innate delicacy which , in some degree , supplied to Laura the want of experience , made her feel an impropriety in the daily visits which she was informed that Hargrave made at her lodgings . 
But the future offered to Laura no attractive prospect . 
Wherever she turned , all seemed dark and unpromising . 
She feared not to labour for her subsistence ; no nar row pride forbade her use of any honourable means of independence . 
But her personal charms were such as no degree of humility could screen from the knowledge of their possessor , and she was sensible how much this dangerous distinction increased the disqualifications of her sex and age for the character of an artist . 
As an artist , she must be exposed to the intrusion of strangers ; to public observation if successful ; to unpitied neglect if she failed in her attempt . 
Besides , it was impossible to think of living alone and unprotected , in the human chaos that surrounded her . 
All her father 's dismal forebodings rose to her remembrance ; and she almost regarded herself as one who would be noticed only as a mark for destruction , beguiled by frauds which no vigilance could detect , overwhelmed by power which she could neither resist nor escape . 
Should she seek in solitude a refuge from the destroyer , and return to mourn at her deserted Glenalbert the stroke that had left it like her lonely and forlorn , want lurked amidst its shades ; for with her father had died not only the duties and the joys of life , but even the means of its support . 
Her temporary right to the few acres which Montreville had farmed , was in less than a year to expire ; and she knew that , after discharging the claim of the landlord , together with some debts which the long illness of Lady Harriet and the ill-fated journey had obliged Montreville to contract , little would remain from the sale of her effects at Glenalbert . 
Laura was sure , that the benevolent friend of her youth , the excellent Mrs Douglas , would receive her with open arms -- guide her inexperience with a mother 's counsel -- comfort her sorrows with a mother 's love . 
But her spirit revolted from a life of indolent dependence , and her sense of justice from casting a useless burden upon an income too confined to answer claims stronger and more natural than hers . 
Laura , therefore , saw no possibility of repaying , by her usefulness in any department of the family , the protection which she might receive ; and she determined that nothing but the last necessity should induce her to tax the generosity of her friend , or to forego the honourable independence of those who , though `` silver or gold they have none , '' can barter for the comforts they enjoy their mental treasures or their bodily toil . 
To undertake the tuition of youth occurred to her as the most eligible means of procuring necessary subsistence , and protection , more necessary still . 
It appeared to her that , as a member of any reputable family , she should be sheltered from the dangers which her father had most taught her to dread . 
She reviewed her accomplishments , and impartially examined her ability to communicate them with temper and perseverance . 
She read aloud with uncommon harmony and grace . 
She spoke and wrote with fluency and precision . 
She was grammatically acquainted with the French and Latin languages , and an adept in the common rules of arithmetic . 
Her proficiency in painting has been already noticed ; and she sang with inimitable sweetness and expression . 
But though expert in every description of plain needle-work , she was an utter novice in the manufacture of all those elegant nothings , which are so serviceable to fine ladies in their warfare against time . 
Though she moved with unstudied dignity and peerless grace , we are obliged to confess , that the seclusion of her native village had doomed her to ignorance of the art of dancing ; that she had never entered a ball-room less capacious than the horizon , nor performed with a partner more illustrious than the schoolmaster 's daughter . 
Lady Harriet had indeed tried to teach her to play on the piano-forte ; but the attempt , after costing Laura many a full heart , and many a watery eye , was relinquished as vain . 
Though the child learnt with unusual facility whatever was taught her by her father or Mrs Douglas , and though she was already remarkable for the sweetness with which she warbled her wood-notes wild , she no sooner approached the piano-forte , than an invincible stupidity seemed to seize on all her faculties . 
This was the more mortifying , as it was the only one of her Ladyship 's accomplishments which she ever personally attempted to communicate to her daughter . 
But the appropriate remedy for obstinacy only aggravated the symptoms ; and , after all , Laura was indebted to Colonel Hargrave 's tuition for so much skill as enabled her to accompany her own singing . 
Laura had more than once felt her deficiency in these fashionable arts , on seeing them exhibited by young ladies , who , to use their own expression , had returned from finishing themselves at a boarding-school , and she feared that this blank in her education might prove a fatal bar to her being employed as a governess . 
But another and a greater obstacle lay before her -- she was utterly unknown . 
The only patrons whose recommendation she could command , were distant and obscure ; and what mother would trust the minds and the manners of her children to the formation of a stranger ? 
This latter objection seemed equally hostile to her being received in quality of companion by those who might be inclined to exchange subsistence and protection for relief from solitude ; and Laura , almost despairing , knew not whither to turn her eye . 
One path indeed invited her steps , a path bright with visions of rapture , warm with the sunshine of love and pleasure ; but the flaming sword of Heaven guarded the entrance ; and as often as her thoughts reverted that way , the struggle was renewed which forces the choice from the pleasing to the right . 
Laura 's prudence had slept , when a little vigilance might have saved her many an after pang ; and she had long paid , was still long to pay , the forfeit of neglecting that wisdom which would guard `` with all diligence '' the first beginnings of even the most innocent passions . 
Had she curbed the infant-strength of an attachment which , though it failed to warp her integrity , had so deeply wounded her peace , how would she have lessened the force of that temptation , which lured her from the rugged ascent , where want and difficulty were to be her companions ; which enticed her to the flowery bowers of pleasure with the voice and with the smile of Hargrave ! 
Yet Laura had resisted a bribe more powerful than any consideration merely selfish could supply ; and she blushed to harbour a thought of yielding to her own inclination what she had refused to a parent 's wants , to a parent 's prayer . 
Her heart filled as she called to mind how warmly Montreville had seconded the wishes of her lover , how resolutely she had withstood his will ; and it swelled even to bursting at the thought that the vow was now fatally made void , which promised , by every endearment of filial love , to atone for this first act of disobedience . 
`` Dearest , kindest of friends , '' she cried , `` I was inflexible to thy request -- thy last request ! 
Religious habits and sentiments were permanent inmates of Laura 's breast . 
transient guests with us all ; and , sinking from the flight which raised her for a time above the sorrows and the wants of earth , Laura was again forced to shrink from the gaunt aspect of poverty , again to turn a wistful eye towards a haven of rest on this side the grave . 
Young as she was , however , she had long been a vigilant observer of her own actions , and of their consequences ; and the result was an immutable conviction , that no heartfelt comfort could , in any circumstances , harbour with wilful transgression . 
As wilful transgression , she considered her marriage with a man whose principles she had fatal reason to distrust . 
As a rash defiance of unknown danger ; as a desperate daring of temptations whose force was yet untried , as a desertion of those arms by which alone she could hope for victory in her Christian combat , Laura considered the hazardous enterprize , which , trusting to the reformation of a libertine , would expose her to his example and his authority , his provocations and his associates . 
Again she solemnly renewed her resolution never , by wilfully braving temptation , to forego the protection of Him who can dash the fulness of worldly prosperity with secret bitterness , or gladden with joys unspeakable the dwelling visited by no friend but Him , cheered by no comfort but the light of his countenance . 
Hargrave 's letter served rather to fortify the resolution which it was intended to shake ; for Laura was not insensible to the indelicacy which did not scorn to owe to her necessities a consent which he had in vain tried to extort from her affection . 
Though pleased with his liberality , she was hurt by his supposing that she could have so far forgotten the mortal offence which he had offered her , as to become his debtor for any pecuniary favour ; and , as nothing could be further from her intention than to owe any obligation to Colonel Hargrave , she did not hesitate a moment to return the money . 
who should satisfy Lady Pelham that the claim of relationship did indeed belong to Laura ? 
Had she been previously known to her aunt , her difficulties would have been at an end ; now she would probably be rejected as an impostor ; and she gave a sigh to the want of foresight which had suffered her to rejoice in escaping an interview with Lady Pelham . 
One passage was blistered with his tears ; and there Laura read with emotions unutterable -- `` Leave to me thy fatherless children , and I will preserve them alive . '' 
Her recent wounds thus torn open , with agony which could not be restrained , she threw herself upon the ground ; and , with cries of anguish , besought her father to return but for one short hour to comfort his desolate child . 
`` Oh I shall never , never see him more , '' said she , -- `` all my cries are vain , '' -- and she wept the more because they were in vain . 
Soon , however , she reproached herself with her immoderate sorrow , soon mingled its accents with those of humble resignation ; and the vigorous mind recovering in devotion all its virtuous energy , she returned , with restored composure , to her melancholy labours . 
In her father 's writing-desk she found an unfinished letter . 
It began `` My dear De Courcy , '' -- and Laura was going to read it with the awe of one who listens to the last words of a father , when she remembered having surprised her father while writing it , and his having hastily concealed it from her sight . 
She instantly folded it without further acquaintance with its contents , except that her own name caught her eye . 
Continuing to arrange the papers , she observed a letter addressed to herself in a hand which she did not remember to have seen . 
It was Lady Pelham 's answer to that in which Laura had announced her mother 's death . 
She perceived that it might furnish an introduction to her aunt ; and with a sensation of gratitude she remembered that she had been accidentally prevented from destroying it . 
At the commencement of her widowhood , Lady Pelham purchased a villa in -- shire , where she spent the summer , returning in the winter to Grosvenor Street ; and this last was almost the only part of her history which was known to Laura . 
From the date of that event , their intercourse had been almost entirely broken off ; and the only attention which Laura had ever received from her aunt , was contained in the letter which she was now thankfully contemplating . 
Her possession of this letter , together with her acquaintance with the facts to which it related , she imagined would form sufficient proof of her identity ; and her national ideas of the claims of relationship awakened a hope of obtaining her aunt 's assistance in procuring some respectable situation . 
Determined to avail herself of her fortunate discovery , she quitted her father 's apartments ; and , carrying with her her credentials , lost no time in repairing to Grosvenor Street . 
Nor did she experience the reluctance which she had formerly felt towards an interview with Lady Pelham ; for she was fully sensible of the difference between a petitioner for charity and a candidate for honourable employment . 
Besides , there is no teacher of humility like misfortune ; and Laura 's spirits were too completely subdued to anticipate or to notice diminutive attacks upon her self-consequence . 
She still , however , with constitutional reserve , shrunk from intruding upon a stranger ; and she passed and repassed the door , examining the exterior of the house , as if she could thence have inferred the character of its owner , before she took courage to give one gentle knock . 
A footman opened the door , and Laura , faltering , inquired if Lady Pelham was within . 
From Laura 's single knock , her humble voice , and her yet more humble habit , which , in ten month 's use , had somewhat faded from the sober magnificence of black , the man had formed no very lofty idea of the visitor 's rank . 
He answered , that he believed his lady was not at home ; but half-afraid of dismissing some person with whom she might have business , he spoke in a tone which made Laura a little doubt the truth of his information . 
She inquired at what time she might be likely to gain access to Lady Pelham ; and , as she spoke threw back her crape veil , unconscious how successfully she was pleading her own cause . 
He soon returned , telling Laura that Lady Pelham would receive her in a few minutes . 
During these few minutes , Laura had formed a hundred conjectures concerning her aunt 's person , voice , and manner . 
She wondered whether she resembled Lady Harriet ; whether her own form would recal to Lady Pelham the remembrance of her sister . 
Laura , with modest dignity , made known her name and situation . 
She spoke of her mother 's death , and the tears trickled from her eyes -- of her father 's , and in venting the natural eloquence of grief , she forgot that she came to interest a stranger . 
Lady Pelham seemed affected ; she held her handkerchief to her eyes , and remained in that attitude for some time after Laura had recovered self-possession . 
Then , throwing her arms round her lovely niece , she affectionately acknowledged the relationship , adding , `` Your resemblance to my poor sister can not be overlooked , and yet in saying so , I am far from paying you a compliment . '' 
After shewing Lady Pelham her own letter , and mentioning such circumstances as tended to confirm her identity , Laura proceeded to detail her plans , to which her Ladyship listened with apparent interest . 
She inquired into Laura 's accomplishments , and seemed pondering the probability of employing them with advantage to the possessor . 
After a few moments silence , she said , `` That short as their acquaintance had been , she thought she could perceive that Laura had too much sensibility for a dependent situation . 
But we shall talk of that hereafter , '' continued she . 
`` At present , your spirits are too weak for the society of strangers ; -- and mine , '' added her Ladyship , with a sigh , `` are not much more buoyant than your own . '' 
Laura looked up with the kindly interest which , whether she herself were joyful or in sadness , sorrow could always command with her ; and her aunt answered her glance of inquiry , by relating , that her only daughter and heiress had eloped from her a few days before , with an artful young fellow without family or fortune . 
`` She deceived me by a train of the basest artifices , '' said Lady Pelham , `` though she might have known that her happiness was my chief concern ; that my only possible motive for withholding my consent was to save her from the poverty to which she has doomed herself. ; But she has unfeelingly preferred her own indulgence to the society and the peace of a kind mother . 
Lady Pelham had talked herself out of breath ; and Laura , not quite understanding this kind of Christian forgiveness , was silent , because she did not well know what to say . 
She felt , however , compassion for a parent deserted by her only child ; and the feeling was legible in a countenance peculiarly fitted for every tender expression . 
After a glance at Laura Lady Pelham melted into tears , and continued , `` I know not how I had deserved such treatment from her ; for never had she reason to complain of me . 
Laura now ventured a few conciliating words . 
`` She will feel her error , Madam , -- she will strive by her after-life to atone -- '' Lady Pelham immediately dried her eyes , `` No , no , my dear , '' interrupted she , `` you do n't know her -- you have no idea of the hardness of her unfeeling heart . 
On another occasion , Laura might have been disposed to canvass the nature of that sensibility which could thus enlarge to a stranger on the defects of an only child . 
Indeed she was little conversant even with the name of this quality . 
Her own sensibility she had been taught to consider as a weakness to be subdued , not as an ornament to be gloried in ; and the expansion of soul which opens to all the sorrows and to all the joys of others , she had learnt to call by a holier name -- to regulate by a nobler principle . 
But she was little disposed to examine the merits of a feeling to which she owed the offer of an unsolicited asylum . 
Her heart swelling with gratitude , she clasped Lady Pelham 's hand between her own , and while tears streamed down her face , `` Kind considerate friend , '' she cried , `` why , why were you not known to us while my father could have been sensible to your kindness ! '' 
After Lady Pelham had repeated her proposal more in detail , and Laura had thankfully acceded to it , they remained in conversation for some time longer . 
Lady Pelham shewed that she had much wit , much vivacity , and some information ; and , after settling that Laura should next day become an inmate in Grosvenor Street , they separated , mutually delighted with each other . 
Lady Pelham applauded herself for a generous action , and , to the interest which Laura awakened in every breast , was added in Lady Pelham 's all the benevolence of self-complacency . 
Laura , on the other hand , did not once dream that any fault could harbour in the unsuspicious liberal heart which had believed the tale , and removed the difficulties of a stranger . 
She did not once dream that she owed her new asylum to any motive less noble than disinterested goodness . 
No wonder that her Ladyship 's motive escaped the penetration of Laura , when it even evaded her own . 
In the meantime , the desire of performing a generous action -- of securing the gratitude of a feeling heart -- of patronizing a poor relation , were the only motives which her Ladyship acknowledged to herself , when she offered protection to Laura . 
An idea had , indeed , darted across her right honourable mind , that she might now secure a humble companion at a rate lower than the usual price of such conveniencies : a momentary notion , too , she formed of exciting the jealousy of her daughter , by replacing her with so formidable a competitor for favour ; but these , she thought , were mere collateral advantages , and by no means the circumstances which fixed her determination . 
The resolution upon which she acted , was taken , as her resolutions generally were , without caution ; and she expressed it , as her custom was , the moment it was formed . 
Laura was scarcely gone , however , when her aunt began to repent of her precipitancy ; and to wish , as she had often occasion to do , that she had taken a little more time for consideration . 
But she comforted herself , that she could at any time get rid of her charge , by recommending Laura to one of the situations which she had mentioned as her choice . 
She knew it would not be difficult to find one more lucrative than that upon which her niece was entering ; for how could she possibly offer wages to so near a relation , or insult with the gift of a trifling sum a person of Laura 's dignity of deportment ? 
While these thoughts were revolving in Lady Pelham 's mind , Laura had reached her home ; and , on her knees , was thanking Providence for having raised up for her a protector and a friend , and praying that she might be enabled to repay , in affectionate and respectful duty , a part of the debt of gratitude which she owed to her benefactress . 
The rest of the evening she spent in preparing for her removal -- in ruminating on her interview with her aunt , and in endeavouring to compose , from the scanty materials which she possessed , a character of this new arbitress of her destiny . 
From Lady Pelham 's prompt decision in favour of a stranger , from her unreserved expression of her feelings , from her lively manner and animated countenance , Laura concluded that she was probably of a temper warm , susceptible , and easily wounded by unkindness or neglect , but frank , candid , and forgiving . 
Laura wished that she had better studied her aunt 's physiognomy . 
What she recollected of it was quite unintelligible to her . 
She laboured in vain to reconcile the feminine curvatures of the nose and forehead with the inflexible closing of the mouth , and the hard outline of the chin , where lurked no soft relenting line . 
But however the countenance might puzzle conjecture , of the mind she harboured not a doubt ; Lady Pelham 's , she was persuaded , was one of those open generous souls , which the young and unwary are always prepared to expect and to love -- souls having no disguise , and needing none . 
It was not without hesitation that Laura formed her resolution to conceal from Hargrave her place of abode . 
She felt for the uneasiness which this concealment would cause him . 
She feared that her desertion might remove one incitement to a virtuous course . 
But she considered , that while their future connection was doubtful , it was imprudent to strengthen by habitual intercourse their need of each other 's society ; and she reflected , that she could best estimate his character from actions performed beyond the sphere of her influence . 
Her watchful self-distrust made her fear to expose her resolution to his importunities ; and she felt the impropriety of introducing into her aunt 's family , a person who stood on terms with her which she did not choose to explain . 
These reasons induced her to withhold from Hargrave the knowledge of her new situation ; and , certain that if it were known to Mrs Stubbs or her servants he would soon be master of the secret , she left no clue by which to trace her retreat . 
This latter quality she possessed in an unusual degree , and yet Laura found it difficult to unravel her character . 
In general , she saw that her aunt 's understanding was bright ; she was persuaded that in general her heart was warm and generous ; but the descent to particulars baflled Laura 's penetration . 
Her opinions seemed fluctuating , and Laura was sometimes ready to imagine that she defended them , not because they were just , nor even because they were her own , but merely because she had called them so ; for with a new antagonist she could change sides , and maintain the opposite ground with equal address . 
In spite of all the warmth of heart for which she gave her aunt credit , Laura , soon began to imagine that Lady Pelham had no friends . 
Laura could not discover that there existed one being from whose failings Lady Pelham respectfully averted her own sight , while reverently veiling them from the eyes of others . 
A few , a very few , seemed to be the objects of Lady Pelham 's esteem ; those of her love Laura could not discover . 
Towards her , however , her aunt expressed a strong affection ; and Laura continued to persuade herself , that if Lady Pelham had no friends , it was because she was surrounded by those who were not worthy of her friendship . 
As she appeared to invite and to desire unreserved confidence , Laura had soon made her acquainted with the narrative of her short life , excepting in so far as it related to Hargrave . 
Mr Warren was no sooner informed that the poor obscure unfriended Laura was the niece of Lady Pelham , and the inmate of her house , than he contrived to arrive at a marvellous certainty that the price of the annuity had been paid , and that the mistake in the papers relating to it originated in mere accident . 
In less than a fortnight the informality was rectified , and the arrears of the annuity paid into Laura 's hands ; the lawyer having first , at Lady Pelham 's desire , deducted the price of his services . 
With tears in her eyes , Laura surveyed her wealth , now of diminished value in her estimation . 
`` Only a few weeks ago , '' said she , `` how precious had this been to me . 
-- Yet it is precious still , '' said she , as she wiped the tears away , `` for it can minister occasions of obedience and of usefulness . '' 
That very day she dispatched little presents for each of Mrs Douglas 's children , in which use was more considered than show ; and in the letter which announced her gifts , she inclosed half of the remaining sum to be distributed among her own poor at Glenalbert . 
In this , and all other matters of mere indifference , Laura was chiefly guided by her aunt ; for she had early observed that this lady , upon all occasions , small as well as great , loved to exercise the office of dictatrix . 
No person could have been better fitted than Laura to conciliate such a temper ; for on all the lesser occasions of submission she was as gentle and complying as she was inflexible upon points of real importance . 
In their conversations , too , though Laura defended her own opinions with great firmness , she so carefully avoided direct contradiction or sarcastic retort , impatience in defeat , or triumph in victory , that even Lady Pelham could scarcely find subject of irritation in so mild an antagonist . 
Lady Pelham had great aptitude in detecting errors , Laura a genius for remedying them . 
Difficulty always roused her Ladyship 's impatience , but she found an infallible resource in the perseverance of Laura . 
In short , Laura contrived so many opportunities , or seized with such happy art those which presented themselves , of ministering to the comfort or convenience of her aunt , that she became both respectable and necessary to her ; and this was , generally speaking , the utmost extent of Lady Pelham 's attachments . 
Lady Pelham sometimes spoke of her daughter , and Laura never missed the opportunity of urging a reconciliation . 
She insisted that the rights of natural affection were unalienable ; that as they did not rest upon the merits , so neither could they be destroyed by the unworthiness either of parents or of children . 
The mother answered , with great impatience , that Laura 's argument was entirely founded on prejudice ; that it was true that for the helplessness of infancy , a peculiar feeling was provided ; but that in all animals this peculiar feeling ceased as soon as it was no longer essential to the existence of the individual . 
`` From thenceforth , '' added she , `` the regard must be founded on the qualities of the head and heart ; and if my child is destitute of these , I can see no reason why I should prefer her to the child of any other woman . '' 
said Laura , tears of grateful recollection rushing down her cheek , `` some parents have loved their child with a fervour which no worth of hers could merit . '' 
The gush of natural sensibility for this time averted the rising storm ; but the next time that Laura renewed her conciliatory efforts , Lady Pelham , growing more vehement as she became herself more convinced that she was in the wrong , burst into a paroxysm of rage ; and , execrating all rebellious children , and their defenders , commanded Laura in future to confine her attention to what might concern herself . 
The humbling spectacle of a female face distorted with passion was not quite new to Laura . 
Undismayed , she viewed it with calm commiseration ; and mildly expressing her sorrow for having given offence , took up her work and left the ferment to subside at leisure . 
Her Ladyship 's passion soon cooled ; and , making advances with a sort of surly condescension , she entered on a new topic . 
Laura answered exactly as if nothing disagreeable had happened ; and Lady Pelham could not divine whether her niece commanded her countenance , or her temper . 
Laura not only habitually avoided giving or taking offence , but made it a rule to extinguish its last traces by some act of cordiality and goodwill . 
This evening , therefore , she proposed , with a grace which seemed rather to petition a favour than to offer a service , to attempt a portrait of her aunt . 
Laura avoided the prohibited subject , and all was quite and serene . 
No dread of personal inconvenience could deter Laura from an act of justice or mercy , and she again steadily pronounced her opinion . 
But aware that one who would persuade must be careful not to irritate , she expressed her sentiments with still more cautious gentleness than formerly ; and perceiving that her aunt was far more governed by passion than by reason , she quitted argument for entreaty . 
By these means she avoided provoking hostility , though she failed to win compliance . 
Lady Pelham seemed to be utterly impenetrable to entreaty , or rather to take pride in resisting it , and Laura had only to hope that time would favour her suit . 
Lady Pelham mentioned an intention of removing early to the country , and Laura rejoiced in the prospect of once more beholding the open face of Heaven -- of listening to nature 's own music -- of breathing the light air of spring . 
She longed to turn her ear from the discords of the city to the sweet sounds of peace -- her eye from countenances wan with care , flushed with intemperance , or ghastly with famine , to cheeks brown with wholesome exercise , or ruddy with health and contentment -- to exchange the sight of dusky brick walls , and walks overlooked by thousands , for the sunny slope or the sheltered solitary lane . 
Lady Pelham took pleasure in describing the beauties of Walbourne , and Laura listened to her with interest , anticipating eagerly the time when she should inhabit so lovely , so peaceful a scene . 
But that interest and eagerness rose to the highest , when she accidentally discovered that the De Courcy family were Lady Pelham 's nearest neighbours in the country . 
The want of something to love and cherish , which was with her Ladyship a mere form of speech , was with Laura a real necessity of nature ; and though it was one which almost every situation could supply , since every creature that approached her was the object of her benevolence , yet much of the happiness of so domestic a being depended on the exercise of the dearer charities , and no one was more capable of a distinguishing preference than Laura . 
She had a hearty regard for the De Courcy family . 
She revered Mrs De Courcy ; she liked Harriet ; and bestowed on Montague her cordial esteem and gratitude . 
This gratitude had now acquired a sacred tenderness ; for it was associated in her mind with the remembrance of a parent . 
De Courcy 's self-denial had cheered her father 's sick-bed , his benevolence gladdened her father 's heart , and his self-denial appeared more venerable , his benevolence more endearing . 
The self-command of Laura would have forbidden her , in any situation , to darken with a settled gloom the sunshine of domestic cheerfulness ; but Lady Pelham had in her somewhat which repels the confidence of grief . 
She often indeed talked of sensibility , and reprobated the want of it as the worst of faults ; but the only kind of it in which she indulged rather inclined to the acrimonious than the benevolent ; and Laura began to perceive , that however her aunt might distinguish them in others , irascible passions and keen feelings were in herself synonymous . 
After the effort of giving and receiving the entertainment which Lady Pelham constantly offered , and as constantly exacted in return , Laura experienced a sensation of recovered freedom when the arrival of a visitor permitted her to escape to her own apartment . 
She saw nobody but her aunt , and never went abroad except to church . 
Thus , during a fortnight which she had passed in Grosvenor Street , she had heard nothing of Hargrave . 
She was anxious to know whether he visited Lady Pelham ; for , with rustic ignorance , she imagined that all people of condition who resided in the same town must be known to each other ; but she had not courage to ask , and searched in vain for his name among the cards that crowded the table in the lobby . 
Fanny was delighted to see her , and charmed with the improvement of her dress , and the returning healthfulness of her appearance ; but the landlady eyed her askance , and surlily answered to her inquiry for her letters , that she would bring the only one she had got ; muttering , as she went to fetch it , something of which the words `` secret doings '' were all that reached Laura 's ear . 
`` Mr De Courcy 's hand , '' cried Laura surprised , but thinking , from its size , that some time would be required to read it , she deferred breaking the seal till she should return to her carriage . 
Laura now tremulously inquired whether she might be permitted to revisit her father 's room ; but being roughly answered that it was occupied , she quietly prepared to go . 
As Fanny followed her through the garden , to open the gate for her , Laura , a conscious blush rising to her face , inquired whether any other person had inquired for her since her departure . 
With the true waiting-maid-like fondness for romance , she enlarged upon all his extravagancies , peeping sidelong now and then under Laura 's bonnet , to catch encouragement from the complacent simper with which such tales are often heard . 
But no smile repaid her eloquence . 
With immoveable seriousness did Laura listen to her , gravely revolving the strange nature of that love which could so readily amalgamate with rage and jealousy , and every discordant passion . 
She was hurt at the indecorum which exposed these weaknesses to the observation of a servant ; and with a sight reflected , that , to constitute the happiness of a woman of sense and spirit , a husband must be possessed of qualities respectable as well as amiable . 
Fanny next tried , whether what concerned De Courcy might not awaken more apparent interest ; and here she had at least a better opportunity to judge of the effect of her narrative , for Laura stopped and turned full towards her . 
She had at last succeeded in raising emotion , for indignant crimson dyed Laura 's cheeks , and fire flashed from her eyes . 
But Laura seldom spoke while she was angry ; and again she silently pursued her way . 
`` Pray , Madam , '' said the girl as she was opening the gate , `` do be so good as to tell me where you live now , that nobody may speak ill of you before me ? '' 
`` I thank you , my good girl , '' returned Laura , a placid smile again playing on her countenance ; `` but my character is in no danger . 
-- You were kind to us , Fanny , when you knew that we could not reward you ; accept of this from me ; '' and she put five guineas into her hand . 
Laura , whose sympathy with her inferiors was not confined to their bodily wants , fully understood the feeling that revolts from bartering for gold alone the service of the heart . 
`` I know it , my dear , '' answered she , in an affectionate tone ; `` and believe me , I only mean to acknowledge , not to repay your kindness . '' 
Fanny persisted in her refusal , but took the opportunity to request Laura 's recommendation to some service more comfortable than her present one . 
`` Or if you need a servant yourself , Madam , '' added she , `` I am sure I had as lief serve you as my own mother . '' 
Laura , with all the pleasure which a good heart receives from the expression of honest affection , promised that she would take the first occasion of endeavouring to procure Fanny 's admission into the family with whom she herself resided . 
`` I 'm sure , '' said she , turning towards the house as Laura disappeared , `` I 'm sure she was made to be a queen , for the more one likes her , the more she frightens one . '' 
As soon as Laura was seated in her carriage , she opened her packet , and with momentary disappointment examined its contents . 
she cried in a tone of mortification ; and then turned to the envelope addressed to Mrs Stubbs . 
It had just malice and just truth enough to be provoking ; and for the second time that day Laura had to strive with the risings of anger . 
She was upon the point of saying , `` So , aware of the impossibility of being at once wonderful and pleasing , your Ladyship , I suppose , aims at only one of these objects ; '' but ere the sarcasm found utterance , she checked herself , and hastened out of the room , with the sensation of having escaped from danger . 
She retired to write to De Courcy a letter of grateful acknowledgement ; in which , after having received Lady Pelham 's approbation , she inclosed his gift , explaining the circumstances which now rendered it unnecessary . 
Laura , weary of being exposed to the double peril of weakly defending , or angrily supporting her attacked friends , ceased to mention the De Courcys at all ; though , with a pardonable spirit of contradiction , she loved them the better for the unprovoked hostility of Lady Pelham . 
The trees in the Park , as they burst into leaf , stimulated Laura 's desire for the country ; and while she felt the genial air of spring , or listened to the early song of some luckless bird caged in a neighbouring window , or saw the yellow glories of the crocus peeping from its unnatural sanctuary , she counted the days till her eyes should be gladdened with the joyous face of nature . 
Only a fortnight had now to pass before her wish was to be gratified , for Lady Pelham intended at the end of that time to remove to Walbourne . 
Laura was just giving the finishing touches to her aunt 's portrait when a visitor was announced ; and , very unwilling to break off at this interesting crisis , Lady Pelham having first scolded the servant for letting in her friend , desired him to shew the lady into the room where Laura was at work . 
Laura 's breath came short . 
Laura 's heart seemed to pause for a moment , and then to redouble its beating . 
thought she ; but she durst not inquire . 
The pencils dropped from Laura 's hand . 
cried the visitor , looking at Laura , who , dreadfully convinced , was stealing out of the room . 
`` Nothing , '' answered Laura ; and fainted . 
Lady Pelham called loudly for help ; and , while the servants were administering it , stood by conjecturing what could be the cause of Laura 's illness ; wondering whether it could have any possible connection with Colonel Hargrave ; or whether it were the effect of mere constitutional habit . 
The moment Laura shewed signs of recollection , Lady Pelham began her interrogations . 
Laura remained silent , and closing her eyes , seemed deaf to all her aunt 's questions . 
-- `` Have you any concern with Colonel Hargrave , Laura ? '' 
`` None , '' answered Laura , with a smile of ineffable bitterness ; and again closing her eyes , maintained an obstinate silence . 
Laura could not rest ! 
From the stupor which had overpowered her faculties , she awoke to the full conviction , that all her earthly prospects were for ever darkened . 
Just entering on life , she seemed already forsaken of all its hopes , and all its joys . 
The affections which had delighted her youth were torn from the bleeding soul ; no sacred connection remained to bless her maturity ; no endearment awaited her decline . 
In all her long and dreary journey to the grave , she saw no kindly resting-place . 
Still Laura 's hopes and wishes had never been bounded to this narrow sphere ; and when she found here no rest for the sole of her foot , she had , in the promises of religion , an ark whither she could turn for shelter . 
But how should she forget that these promises extended not to Hargrave . 
Oh how could she look on that form , that countenance , and see in them only the objects of a passion , vile as the heart that cherished it . '' 
-- Then she would repent of her want of candour , -- `` I am unjust , I am cruel , '' she said , `` thus to load with all the burden of this foul offence , her who had perhaps the least share in it . 
That time infallibly brings comfort even to the sorest sorrows -- that if we make not shipwreck of faith and a good conscience , we save from the storms of life the materials of peace at least -- that lesser joys become valuable when we are deprived of those of keener relish -- are lessons which even experience teaches but slowly : and Laura had them yet in a great measure to learn . 
She was persuaded that she should go mourning to the grave . 
What yet remained of her path of life seemed to lie through a desert waste , never more to be warmed with the sunshine of affection ; never more to be brightened with any ray of hope , save that which beamed from beyond the tomb . 
She imagined , that lonely and desolate she should pass through life , and joyfully hail the messenger that called her away ; like some wretch , who , cast alone on a desert rock , watches for the sail that is to waft him to his native land . 
The more Laura was convinced that life was lost as to all its pleasing purposes , the more was she determined that it should be subservient to useful ends . 
Earthly felicity , she was convinced , had fled for ever from her grasp ; and the only resolution she could form , was never more to pursue it ; but , in the persevering discharge of the duties which yet remained to her , to seek a preparation for joys which earth has not to bestow . 
That she might not devote to fruitless lamentation the time which was claimed by duty , she , as soon as it was day , attempted to rise , intending to spend the morning in acts of resignation for herself , and prayers that pardon and repentance might be granted to him whose guilt had destroyed her peace . 
But her head was so giddy , that , unable to stand , she was obliged to return to her bed . 
It was long ere she was again able to quit it . 
A slow fever seized her , and brought her to the brink of the grave . 
Her senses , however , remained uninjured , and she had full power and leisure to make those reflections which force themselves upon all who are sensible of approaching dissolution . 
In its true form and colouring did Laura behold her disappointment ; when , with characteristic firmness , she had wrung from her attendants a confession of her danger . 
With amazement she looked back on the infatuation which could waste on any concern less than eternal , the hopes , the fears , and the wishes once squandered by her on a passion which now seemed trivial as the vapour scattered by the wind . 
At last , aided by the rigid temperance of her former life , and her exemplary patience in suffering , the strength of her constitution began to triumph over her disorder . 
As she measured back her steps to earth again , the concerns which had seemed to her reverting eye diminished into nothing , again swelled into importance : but Laura could not soon forget the time when she had seen them as they were ; and this remembrance powerfully aided her mind in its struggle to cast off its now disgraceful shackles . 
In a few weeks , the passion which had so long disturbed the peace of Laura was hushed to lasting repose ; but it was the repose of the land where the whirlwind has passed ; dreary and desolate . 
Her spirits had received a shock from which it was long , very long , ere she could rouse them . 
Many a wish did she breathe for his happiness ; many a fervent prayer for his reformation . 
In spite of herself , she lamented the extinguished love , as well as the lost lover ; and never remembered , without a heavy sigh , that the season of enthusiastic attachment was , with her , passed never to return . 
But she cordially wished that she might never again behold the cause of so much anguish and humiliation . 
She longed to be distant from all chance of such a meeting , and was anxious to recover strength sufficient for her journey to Walbourne . 
They travelled slowly , and Laura 's health seemed improved by the journey . 
But they were industriously improved to their proper use by Laura , who acknowledged in them the kindness of a father , mingling with some cordial drop even the bitterest cup of sorrow . 
The grief which had fastened on her heart she never obtruded upon her companion . 
She behaved always with composure , sometimes with cheerfulness . 
She never obliquely reflected upon Providence , by insinuating the hardness of her fate , nor indulged in splenetic dissertations on the inconstancy and treachery of man . 
Indeed she never , by the most distant hint , aproached the ground of her own peculiar sorrow . 
She could not , without the deepest humiliation , reflect that she had bestowed her love on an object so unworthy . 
She burnt with shame at the thought of having been so blinded , so infatuated , by qualities merely external . 
While she remembered , with extreme vexation , that she had suffered Hargrave to triumph in the confession of her regard , she rejoiced that no other witness existed of her folly -- that she had never breathed the mortifying secret into any other ear . 
In this frame of mind , she repelled with calm dignity every attempt which Lady Pelham made to penetrate her sentiments ; and behaved in such a manner that her aunt could not discover whether her spirits were affected by languor of body or by distress of mind . 
Laura , indeed , had singular skill in the useful art of repulsing without offence ; and Lady Pelham , spite of her curiosity , found it impossible to question her niece with freedom . 
Notwithstanding her youth , and her almost dependent situation , Laura inspired Lady Pelham with involuntary awe . 
Her dignified manners , her vigorous understanding , the inflexible integrity which descended even to the regulation of her forms of speech , extorted some degree of respectful caution from one not usually over careful of giving offence . 
In Laura 's absence she sometimes thought of it with impatience , and resolved to cast it off at their next interview ; but whenever they met , the unoffending majesty of Laura effaced her resolution , or awed her from putting it in practice . 
She could not always , however , refrain from using that sort of inuendo which is vulgarly called talking at one 's companions ; a sort of rhetoric in great request with those who have more spleen than courage , and which differs from common scolding only in being a little more cowardly and a little more provoking . 
All her Ladyship 's dexterity and perseverance in this warfare were entirely thrown away . 
Whatever might be meant , Laura answered to nothing but what met the ear ; and , with perverse simplicity , avoided the particular application of general propositions . 
Lady Pelham next tried to coax herself into Laura 's confidence . 
She redoubled her caresses and professions of affection . 
She hinted , not obscurely , that if Laura would explain her wishes , they would meet with indulgence , and even assistance , from zealous friendship . 
Her professions were received with gratitude -- her caresses returned with sensibility ; but Laura remained impenetrable . 
Lady Pelham 's temper could never brook resistance ; and she would turn from Laura in a pet : -- the pitiful garb of anger which can not disguise , and dares not show itself . 
Laura never appeared to bestow the slightest notice on her caprice , and received her returning smiles with unmoved complacency . 
She would fain have loved her aunt ; but in spite of herself , her affection took feeble root amidst these alternations of frost and sunshine . 
She was weary of hints and insinuations ; and felt not a little pleased that Lady Pelham 's fondness for gardening seemed likely to release her , during most of the hours of daylight , from this sort of sharpshooting warfare . 
Undeceived in his hopes of Laura 's regard , Montague was almost reluctant to see her again . 
Laura , too , often looked towards Norwood , excusing to herself the apparent neglect of her friends , by supposing that they had not been informed of her arrival . 
Lady Pelham was abroad superintending her gardeners , and Laura employed in her own apartment , when she was called to receive De Courcy . 
For the first time since the wreck of all her hopes , joy flushed the wan cheek of Laura , and fired her eye with transient lustre . 
`` I shall hear the voice of friendship once more , '' said she , and she hastened down stairs with more speed than suited her but half-recovered strength . 
`` Dear Mr De Courcy , '' she cried , joyfully advancing towards him ! 
Laura held out her hand to him . 
With grief and surprise , Laura read the cold and melancholy expression of his face . 
Her feeble spirits failed under so chilling a reception ; and while , in a low tremulous voice , she inquired for Mrs and Miss De Courcy , unbidden tears wandered down her cheeks . 
In replying , Montague again turned his eyes towards her ; and , shocked at the paleness and dejection of her altered countenance , remembered only Laura ill and in sorrow . 
he exclaimed , with a voice and manner of the tenderest interest , `` Laura -- Miss Montreville , you are ill -- you are unhappy ! '' 
Laura , vexed that her weakness should thus extort compassion , hastily dried her tears . 
`` I have been ill , '' said she , `` and am still so weak that any trifle can discompose me . '' 
`` It is then a mere trifle in her eyes , '' thought he , `` that I should meet her with coldness . '' 
`` And yet , '' continued Laura , reading mortification in his face , `` It is no trifle to fear that I have given offence where I owe so much gratitude . '' 
cried Laura , bursting into tears of sad remembrance , `` has all your considerate friendship , all your soothing kindness to him who is gone , no claim to the gratitude of his child ! '' 
He led Laura to talk of her father , and of the circumstances of his death ; and was not ashamed to mingle sympathetic tears with those which her narrative wrung from her . 
In her detail , she barely hinted at the labour by which she had supported her father ; and avoided all allusion to the wants which she had endured . 
If any thing could have exalted her in the opinion of De Courcy , it would have been the humility which sought no praise to recompense exertion -- no admiration to reward self-denial . 
`` The praise of man is with her as nothing , '' thought he , gazing on her wasted form and faded features with fonder adoration than ever he had looked on her full blaze of beauty . 
`` She has higher hopes and nobler aims . 
-- Now , too , when his infamy can not be unknown to her ! 
Yet it must be so -- she has never named him , even while describing scenes where he was daily present ; and why this silence , if he were indifferent to her ? 
-- but I can not give her pain . '' 
From this reverie De Courcy was roused by the entrance of Lady Pelham , whose presence brought to his recollection the compliments and ceremonial which Laura had driven from his mind . 
Lady Pelham , excusing herself for the present on the plea of her niece 's indisposition , urged De Courcy to direct his walks often towards Walbourne ; in charity , she said , to Laura , who being unable to take exercise , spent her forenoons alone , sighing , she supposed , for some Scotch Strephon . 
Laura blushed ; and Montague took his leave , pondering whether the blush was deepened by any feeling of consciousness . 
`` She has a witchcraft in her that no language can express -- no heart withstand -- , '' said De Courcy , suddenly breaking a long silence , as he and his mother were sitting tte  tte after dinner . 
There is such noble simplicity , such considerate benevolence , such total absence of vanity and selfishness in her character , that no woman was ever better fitted to embellish and endear domestic life . '' 
I am widely mistaken in Miss Montreville , if she could bestow her preference on a libertine , knowing him to be such . '' 
`` To betray her weakness , her only weakness , to such observers -- to the wretch himself . '' 
`` I am ashamed , '' said De Courcy , `` to confess how much my peace depends upon Laura . 
It is as a husband and a father that all my wishes must be fulfilled -- and all that I have ever fancied of venerable and endearing , so meet in her , that no other woman can ever fill her place . '' 
But all that is necessary for your comfort you will find in the warmth of heart with which Laura will return your affection -- the soundness of principle with which she will assist you in your duties . 
The next day found De Courcy again at Walbourne ; and again he enjoyed a long and private interview with Laura . 
Though their conversation turned only on indifferent subjects , De Courcy observed the settled melancholy which had taken possession of her mind . 
To that better world all her hopes and wishes seemed already fled ; and the saint herself seemed waiting , with resigned desire , for permission to depart . 
De Courcy 's fears assigned to her melancholy its true cause . 
He would have given worlds to know the real state of her sentiments , and to ascertain how far her attachment had survived the criminality of Hargrave . 
He could not bear to inflict upon Laura even momentary anguish ; perhaps he even feared to know the full extent of those regrets which she lavished on his rival . 
With scrupulous delicacy he avoided approaching any subject which could at all lead her thoughts towards the cause of her sorrow , and never even seemed to notice the dejection which wounded him to the soul . 
We must bring Laura to Norwood , and find employments for her suited to her kindly nature . 
Meanwhile do you exert yourself to rouse her ; and , till she is well enough to leave home , I shall freely resign to her all my claims upon your time . '' 
Sometimes he brought a book which he read aloud to the ladies ; sometimes he borrowed one , which he chose to return in person ; now he wished to shew Laura a medal , and now he had some particularly fine flower-seeds for Lady Pelham . 
Laura was not insensible to his attentions . 
She believed that he attributed whatever was visible of her depression to regrets for her father ; and she was by turns ashamed of permitting her weakness to wear the mask of filial piety , and thankful that she escaped the degradation of being pitied as a love-sick girl . 
But love had now no share in Laura 's melancholy . 
Laura looked upon hers with resigned sadness , and a thousand times repeated to herself that it was but a point , compared with what lay beyond . 
Hopeless of happiness , she yet forced herself to seek short pleasure in the charms of nature , and the comforts of affluence ; calling them the flowers which a bountiful hand had scattered in the desert which it was needful that she should tread alone . 
It was with some surprise that she found De Courcy 's visits produce pleasure without requiring an effort to be pleased ; and with thankfulness she acknowledged that the enjoyments of the understanding were still open to her , though those of the heart were for ever withdrawn . 
In the meantime her health improved rapidly , and she was able to join in Lady Pelham 's rambles in the shrubbery . 
To avoid particularity , De Courcy had often quitted Laura to attend on these excursions ; and he rejoiced when her recovered strength allowed him to gratify , without imprudence , the inclination which brought him to Walbourne . 
It often , however , required all his influence to persuade her to accompany him in his walks with Lady Pelham . 
On the contrary , it was rather exasperated by her conviction that her niece 's dejection had not been the consequence of ill health , since it continued after that plea was removed ; and Laura was constantly tormented with oblique attempts to discover what she was determined should never be known . 
She contrived to make even her very looks tormenting , by directing , upon suitable occasions , sly glances of discovery to Laura 's face ; where , if they found out nothing , they at least insinuated that there was something to find out . 
She was inimitably dexterous and indefatigable in improving every occasion of inuendo . 
Any subject , however irrelevant , furnished her with the weapons of her warfare . 
asked Laura , shewing one to De Courcy -- `` No , '' said Lady Pelham , pushing in between them ; `` that close thing , wrapped up in itself , never expands in the genial warmth ; it never shews its heart . '' 
`` This should be a precious book with so many envelopes , '' said Laura , untying a parcel . 
Lady Pelham ran on for a while , contrasting her open ingenuous self , with the odious character which her significant looks appropriated to her niece , till even the mild Laura was provoked to reply . 
Fixing her eyes upon her aunt with calm severity , `` If Rochefoucault meant , '' said she , `` that a friend should be treated with suspicious confidence , as if he might one day betray , I agree with your Ladyship in thinking such a sentiment incompatible with friendship ; but we are indebted to him for a useful lesson , if he merely intended to remind us that it is easy to alienate affection without proceeding to real injury , and very possible to forfeit esteem without incurring serious guilt . '' 
-- The blood mounted to Lady Pelham 's face , but the calm austerity of Laura 's eye imposed silence , and she continued to turn over the pages of her book , while her niece rose and left the room . 
She then tossed it away , and walked angrily up and down , fretting between baulked curiosity and irritated pride . 
Finding every other mode of attack unsuccessful , she once more resolved to have recourse to direct interrogation . 
This intention had been frequently formed , and as often defeated by the dignified reserve of Laura ; but now that Lady Pelham felt her pride concerned , she grew angry enough to be daring . 
She followed Laura to her apartment , determined to insist upon knowing what affected her spirits . 
Laura received her with a smile so gracious , that , spite of herself , her wrath began to evaporate . 
Conceiving it proper , however , to maintain an air of importance , she began with an aspect that announced hostility , and a voice in which anger increased intended gravity into surliness . 
`` Quite at leisure , Madam , '' said Laura in a tone of the most conciliating good humour , and motioning her aunt to a seat by the fire . 
`` It is extremely unpleasant , '' said Lady Pelham , tossing her head to escape the steady look of inquiry which Laura directed towards her ; `` It is extremely unpleasant -LRB- at least if one has any degree of sensibility -RRB- to live with persons who always seem unhappy , and are always striving to conceal it , especially when one can see no cause for their unhappiness . '' 
`` It must indeed be very distressing , '' returned Laura mentally preparing for her defence . 
`` I am sorry , '' said Laura , with unmoved self possession , `` to be the cause of any uneasiness to your Ladyship . 
Lady Pelham stopped to reconnoitre her niece 's face , but without success ; for Laura had let fall her scissars , and was busily seeking them on the carpet . 
`` I have seen him , '' answered Laura , painfully recollecting how little she had really known him . 
resumed her Ladyship , recovering her temper , as she thought she had discovered a clue to Laura 's sentiments . 
`` Yes , Madam , often ; '' replied Laura , who having , with a strong effort , resumed her self-possession , again submitted her countenance to inspection . 
Laura fixed on her aunt one of her cool commanding glances . 
`` Your Ladyship , '' returned she , `` seems so much in earnest , that if the question were a little less extraordinary , I should almost have thought you expected a serious answer . '' 
`` My dear Madam , '' said Laura , gratefully pressing Lady Pelham 's hand between her own , `` believe me , I am not forgetful of the kindness which has afforded me shelter and protection : but there are some subjects of which no degree of intimacy will permit the discussion . 
`` By no means , '' answered Laura , with spirit , `` I was far from saying so . 
`` Indeed , my dear aunt , '' said Laura , in a voice irresistibly soothing , `` I have no earthly wish so strong as to find a real friend in you : but , '' added she , with an insinuating smile , `` I shall never earn the treasure with tales of luckless love . '' 
`` Pray do n't go , '' said Laura , with perfect good humour , and holding upon her delicate fingers a cap which she had been making , `` I have finished your cap . 
`` Pray do , '' said Laura , taking her hand , and coaxingly pulling her back , `` Make haste then , '' said Lady Pelham , sullenly , `` for I have no time to spare . '' 
`` How becoming , '' cried Laura , as she fixed on the cap , `` I never saw you look so well in any thing . 
The ill humour which had resisted the graces of the loveliest face in the world , could not stand a favourable view of her own ; and Lady Pelham quitted Laura with a gracious compliment to her genius for millinery , and a declaration , that the cap should be worn the next day , in honour of a visit from Mr De Courcy and Harriet . 
As Harriet had just returned from her excursion , this was the first time that she had seen Laura , and the meeting gave them mutual pleasure . 
Harriet seemed in even more than usual spirits ; and Laura , roused by the presence of persons whom she loved and respected , shewed a cheerfulness more unconstrained than she had felt since her father 's death . 
Montague , who watched her assiduously , was enchanted to perceive that she could once more smile without effort ; and , in the joy of his heart , resumed a gaiety which had of late been foreign to him . 
Miss De Courcy was extremely anxious that Laura should pass a few days at Norwood . 
But Laura , remembering the coolness which had of late subsisted between herself and Lady Pelham , and unwilling to postpone her endeavours to efface every trace of it , objected that she could not quit her aunt for such a length of time . 
Laura looked very grave , and Harriet hastened to execute her purpose . 
Except to secure Laura 's company , Harriet had not the slightest desire for Lady Pelham 's . 
When at the close of an agreeable evening , Laura attended her friend to her chamber , Harriet , with more sincerity than politeness , regretted that Lady Pelham was to join their party to Norwood . 
`` I shall feel the more indebted to your mother 's welcome , '' said Laura , with extreme gravity , `` because she will extend it to a person to whom I owe obligations that can not be repaid . '' 
Harriet , blushing , apologized for her freedom ; and Laura accepting the apology with smiles of courtesy and affection , the friends separated for the night . 
Norwood had appeared to Laura to be little more than a mile distant from Walbourne . 
The swellings of the ground had deceived her . 
As the carriage approached Norwood , Laura perceived traces of a noble park , changed from its former purpose to one more useful , though less magnificent . 
At the extremity of this lawn stood Norwood , a large castellated building ; and , while Laura looked at it , she imagined the interior dull with baronial magnificence . 
The carriage drove up to the door , and Laura could not help smiling at the cordial welcome that seemed to await De Courcy . 
The great Newfoundland dog that lay upon the steps leapt upon him , and expressed his joy by a hundred clumsy gambols ; while John , the old servant whom she had seen in Audley Street , busied himself about his master , with an officiousness that evidently came from the heart , leaving Lady Pelham 's attendants to wait upon their mistress and her companions . 
De Courcy , giving his hand to Lady Pelham , conducted her , followed by Harriet and Laura , into the room where Mrs De Courcy was sitting ; and the next moment his heart throbbed with pleasure , while he saw the beloved of his soul locked in his mother 's arms . 
When the first joy of the meeting was over , Laura had leisure to observe the interior of the mansion , which differed not less from her expectations than from any thing she had before seen . 
Though it was equally remote from the humble simplicity of her cottage of Glenalbert , and the gaudiness of Lady Pelham 's more modern abode , she saw nothing of the gloomy splendour which she had fancied ; every thing breathed comfort and repose . 
When the ladies rose from table , Harriet offered to conduct Laura through the other apartments , which exactly corresponded with those she had seen . 
Between music , work , and conversation , the evening passed cheerfully away ; nor did Laura mark its flight till the great house-clock struck nine . 
The conversation suddenly paused ; Harriet laid aside her work ; Mrs De Courcy 's countenance assumed a pleasing seriousness ; and Montague , quitting his place by Laura 's side , seated himself in a patriarchal-looking chair , at the upper end of the room . 
Among the joyous faces of this happy household , Laura had observed one alone clouded with sorrow . 
It was that of a young modest-looking girl in deep mourning , whose audible sobs attested that she was the subject of a prayer which commended an orphan to the Father of the fatherless . 
A silence of a few moments ensued ; and Laura could not help gazing with delight , not unmingled with awe , on the traces of serene benevolence and manly piety , which lingered on the countenance of De Courcy . 
`` Happy Harriet , '' said she , when she was alone with her friend , `` Would that I had been your sister ! '' 
`` You need not laugh , my dear , '' continued Laura , with most unembarrassed simplicity , `` I did not mean your brother 's wife , but his sister , and Mrs De Courcy 's daughter . '' 
Though Miss De Courcy was much less in Montague 's confidence than her mother , she was not ignorant of his preference for Laura ; but Mrs De Courcy had so strongly cautioned her against even hinting this preference to the object of it , that though she but half guessed the reasons of her mother 's injunctions , she was afraid to disobey . 
That Laura was even acquainted with Hargrave was unknown to Harriet ; for De Courcy was almost as tenacious of Laura 's secret as she herself was , and would as soon have thought of giving up his own heart to the frolics of a kitten , as of exposing that of Laura to the badinage of his sister . 
This kind precaution left Laura perfectly at her ease with Harriet , an ease which would quickly have vanished , had she known her to be acquainted with her humiliating story . 
The young ladies had rambled over half the ground of Norwood before the family had assembled at a cheerful breakfast ; and as soon as it was ended , Harriet proposed that Laura should assist her with her advice in composing a watercolour drawing from one of her own pictures . 
`` We 'll leave Lady Pelham and my mother in possession of the drawing-room , '' said she , `` for the pictures all hang in the library . 
`` Perhaps , '' returned Laura , `` Mrs De Courcy thinks he has some right to dictate in his own house . '' 
The picture which Miss De Courcy had fixed upon , was that of Leonidas , and Laura would far rather have been excused from interference ; yet , as she could not with propriety escape , nothing remained but to summon her composure , and to study anew this resemblance of her unworthy lover . 
She took her work , and began quietly to superintend Harriet 's progress . 
Their employments did not interrupt conversation ; and though Laura 's was at first a little embarrassed , she soon recovered her ease . 
Laura excused herself , saying , that since her fever , her hand had been unsteady . 
De Courcy , who had approached his sister before he understood her request , shrunk back . 
She could scarcely have proposed an employment less agreeable to him ; and he was hastily going to refuse it , when , happening to meet the eye of Laura , in the dread that she should detect his consciousness , he snatched the pencil and began . 
`` O , by the by , my dear , '' said she to Laura , `` your Leonidas is the greatest likeness in the world of my old beau , Colonel Hargrave . 
`` You need not be angry with me for making Laura blush . 
I dare say she likes it ; it becomes her so well . '' 
`` If you are accustomed to say such strange things to your friends , my dear Harriet , '' said Laura , `` the blushes you raise will not always have that advantage . 
`` I do n't wonder you laugh , '' said Laura , not venturing to look round to him , `` at hearing Harriet , on such slender grounds , exalt such a matter-of-fact person as myself , into the heroine of a romance . 
In a few minutes Mrs De Courcy appeared , and dismissed her unwilling daughter to escort Lady Pelham to the flower-garden , while Laura preferred remaining at home . 
She did what she could to rally Laura out of her secret , but she totally failed of success . 
Laura , now upon her guard , not only evaded making any discovery , but , by the easy indifference of her answers , convinced Harriet that there was nothing to discover . 
Indeed , her suspicion was merely a transient thought , arising from Laura 's confusion at her sudden attack , and scarcely outlived the moment that gave it birth ; though the emotion which Montague had shewn , confirmed his sister in the belief of his attachment to Laura . 
The subject thus entirely dropped which Laura could never approach without pain , the time of her visit to Norwood glided away in peace and comfort , every day lessening the dejection which she had believed , nay almost wished , would follow her to the grave . 
The only habit , common to love-lorn damsels , in which Laura indulged , was that of preferring solitary rambles ; a habit , however , which had been imbibed long before she had any title to that character . 
Delighted with the environs of Norwood , she sometimes wandered beyond the dressed ground into the park , where art still embellished without restraining nature . 
Laura had followed the windings of a little green lane , till the woods which darkened it suddenly opened into a small field , sheltered by them on every side , which seemed to form the territory of a cottage of singular neatness and beauty . 
The next moment Laura saw the dog throw him down , and heard a piercing cry . 
Fearless of personal danger , she ran to his assistance . 
Convinced that the child was unhurt , and that the scream had been caused merely by fear , Laura spoke to the dog , who immediately quitted his posture to fawn upon her . 
She lifted the child from the ground and carried him towards the cottage . 
The poor little fellow , pale with terror , clung round her neck ; but he no sooner saw himself in safety , than , recovering his suspended faculties , he began to roar with all his might . 
His cries reached the people in the house , who hastened to inquire into their cause ; and Laura was met in the door of the cottage by De Courcy 's grey-haired servant , John , who seemed its owner , and a decent old woman , who was his wife . 
Laura prefaced her account of the accident by an assurance that the child was not hurt , and the old woman , taking him in her arms , tried to sooth him , while John invited Miss Montreville to enter . 
While Margaret was busy with her little charge , Laura praised the neatness and comfort of John 's abode . 
`` I thought , John , you had lived in Mr De Courcy 's house , '' said Laura . 
`` And if you are employed all day at Norwood , '' said Laura , `` how do you contrive to keep your garden in such nice order ? '' 
`` Mr De Courcy seems attentive to the comfort of every body that comes near him , '' said Laura . 
said Laura . 
`` Come , Nep , '' said he , squatting himself down on the ground where Neptune was lying at Laura 's feet ; `` come , Nep , I 'll make friends ; and there 's half for you , Henry 's own dear Nep . '' 
said Laura , who was extremely fond of children . 
The boy looked steadily in her face for a few moments , and then holding out his arms to her , said , `` Yes , I will . '' 
inquired Laura , twisting his golden ringlets round her fingers . 
Laura saw that the subject was painful , and she inquired no further . 
She remained for a while playing with little Henry , and listening to John 's praises of his master ; and then returned homewards . 
She was met by De Courcy and Harriet , who were coming in search of her . 
She related her little adventure , and praised the extraordinary beauty of the child . 
exclaimed Laura in surprise ; `` Why not ? '' 
For some minutes Laura gravely and silently endeavoured to account for his behaviour . 
`` His generosity supports this child , '' thought she , `` and he is superior to blazoning his charity . 
`` Norwood is the Eden of the earth , '' said she to Harriet , ss they drew their chairs towards the fire , to enjoy a tte  tte after the family were retired for the night ; `` and it is peopled with spirits fit for paradise . 
`` Really , '' said Laura , `` I think you would purchase even these delightful recreations too dearly by the loss of your present society . 
Laura did as she was desired ; and , with cheeks flushed to crimson , but a voice of ` sweet austere composure , ' replied , `` Indeed , Miss De Courcy , I am hurt that you should so often have taxed me , even in sport , with so discreditable a partiality . 
You can not be serious in supposing that I would marry an '' -- adulterer , Laura would have said ; but to apply such an epithet to Hargrave was too much for human firmness , and she stopped . 
`` I do not say so , '' answered Laura ; `` it is silly to assert resolutions which nobody credits . 
inquired Laura . 
said Laura , smiling . 
`` Oh no , my dearest , '' she cried , throwing her arms round Laura 's neck ; `` do not think so hardly of me . 
-- `` Pardon my injustice , dearest Harriet , '' said Laura , `` in believing , even for a moment , that you were capable of such perversion ; and join with me in rejoicing that your brother 's influence has saved you from witnessing , from sharing , the pangs of unavailing repentance . '' 
Laura answered that she had never heard the circumstances of the family at all mentioned . 
`` This is just what I should have expected from Mr De Courcy , '' said Laura , the purest satisfaction beaming in her countenance . 
Do love him , dear Laura ! 
`` Indeed I believe it , '' said Laura , `` and I have the most cordial regard for him . '' 
-- `` Ah , but you must '' -- Harriet 's gratitude to her brother had very nearly been too strong for his secret , and she was on the point of petitioning Laura to return a sentiment warmer than cordial regard , when , recollecting her mother 's commands , she desisted ; and to fly from the temptation , wished Laura good night , and retired . 
It was with sincere regret that Laura , the next day , took leave of her kind hosts . 
As De Courcy handed her into the carriage , the tears were rising to her eyes : but they were checked by a glance from Lady Pelham , in which Laura thought she could read mingled scorn and anger . 
Laura felt that her reluctance to quit Norwood was a bad compliment to her aunt , and she called a smile to her face as she kissed her hand to her kind friends ; yet the contrast between their affectionate looks , and the `` lurking devil '' in Lady Pelham 's eye , did not lessen her regret at the exchange she was making . 
Lady Pelham saw the tone of Laura 's mind , and she immediately struck up a discord . 
Laura remained silent ; for she disliked direct contradiction , and never spoke what she did not think . 
Laura was accustomed to support Lady Pelham 's attacks upon herself with perfect equanimity ; but her temper was not proof against this unjust , this unexpected philippic against her friends ; and she reddened with anger and disdain , though she had still so much self-command as to reply only , `` Your Ladyship is fortunate in being able to lose , without regret , what others find it so difficult to replace . '' 
This was the first time that she had been conscious of power over it , and severely did Laura pay for the momentary negligence which had betrayed the secret . 
During several months , she made it the occasional instrument of her vengeance for the jealousy which she entertained of Laura 's increasing intimacy with the De Courcys ; an intimacy which she chose to embitter , though she could not break it off , without depriving herself of acquaintances who were visited by the first people in the county . 
Her industry in teazing was not confined to Laura . 
She inflicted a double stroke , by the petulance or coldness with which she sometimes treated the De Courcys . 
But though Laura was keenly sensible to these petty wrongs done her friends , the injured passed them over without much notice . 
In the triumphant expectation that all difficulty would yield to her acuteness , and her brighter abilities gain in a comparison with the plain good-sense of her niece , she obliged Laura to join in her new pursuit . 
Upon the study of this science , so little in favour with a sex who reserve cultivation for faculties where it is least wanting , Laura entered with a pleasure that surprised herself , and she persevered in it with an industry that astonished her teacher . 
-- Forthwith she was fired with strong aversion to philosophers in bibs , and a horror at she-pedants , a term of reproach which a dexterous side-glance could appropriate to her niece , though the author of these memoirs challenges any mortal to say that ever Laura Montreville was heard to mention ellipse or parabola , or to insinuate her acquaintance with the properties of circle or polygon . 
Nothing moved by Lady Pelham 's sneers , Laura continued her studies , impelled partly by the duty of improving the most valuable faculty of an immortal mind , partly by the pleasure which she derived from the study itself . 
It is true , that her Ladyship 's indiscreet use of the secret , made Laura 's laboure the cause of much merriment to titterers of both sexes ; but we have never discovered that De Courcy esteemed her the less for her persevering industry , or loved her the less for this new subject of mutual interest . 
He watched with delight the restoration of her mind to its full vigour ; and as he had never known her in the blaze of youthful gaiety , he was scarcely sensible of the shade which blended the radiance of her mid-day of life with the sober tints of evening . 
The impression of her early disappointment was indeed indelible , but it was no longer overwhelming . 
She had given the reins to her imagination -- it had fatally misled her ; but its power had sustained an irrecoverable shock , and the sway was transferred to reason . 
She had dreamed of an earthly heaven , and seen that it was but a dream . 
All her earthly joys had vanished -- yet misery had been almost as transient as delight , and she learned the practical use of a truth which all acknowledge in theory . 
In the course of four months residence at Walbourne , she recovered a placid cheerfulness , which afterwards continued to be the habitual tenor of her mind . 
It she looked forward to the future events of her life , it was to resolve that they should be subservient to the great end of her being . 
If she glanced backward , it was less to lament her disappointment , than to blame the error which had led to it ; and she never allowed her thoughts to dwell upon her unworthy lover , except when praying that he might be awakened to a sense of his guilt . 
She was chiefly concerned to improve and to enjoy the present ; and in this she was successful in spite of the peevish humours of Lady Pelham , mixed occasionally with ebullitions of rage . 
It would have lost half its power to provoke , and Laura half the merit of her patient endurance , if it had been permanently diabolical . 
Laura threw oil upon the torrent , and suffered the marsh to clear itself . 
She enjoyed Lady Pelham 's wit and vivacity in her hours of good humour , and patiently submitted to her seasons of low spirits , as she complaisantly called them . 
Laura at last , undesignedly , opened a new direction to her aunt 's spleen . 
From her first introduction to Lady Pelham , she had laboured assiduously to promote a reconciliation between her aunt and her daughter , Mrs Herbert . 
Still Laura was not discouraged for she had often observed that what Lady Pelham declared on one day to be wholly impossible , on the next became , without any assignable reason , the easiest thing in nature ; and that what to-day no human force should wrest from her , was yielded to-morrow to no force at all . 
Of this opening , unpromising as it was , Laura instantly availed herself ; and wrote to convey the frozen invitation to her cousin , in the kindest language which she was permitted to use . 
Laura traced in her unbending reserve , the apathy of one whose genial feelings had been blunted by early unkindness . 
Frank , high-spirited , and imprudent , Herbert was his wife 's opposite ; and Laura had not been half an hour in his company , before she began to tremble for the effect of these qualities on the irascible temper of her aunt . 
But her alarm seemed causeless ; for the easy resoluteness with which he maintained his opinions , appeared to extort from Lady Pelham a sort of respect ; and , though she privately complained to Laura of what she called his assurance , she exempted him , while present , from her attacks , seeming afraid to exert upon him her skill in provoking . 
Laura began to perceive , that a termagant is not so untameable an animal as she had once imagined , since one glimpse of the master-spirit is of sovereign power to lay the lesser imps of spleen . 
The placing of a book , the pronunciation of a word , the snuffing of a candle , called forth reprehension ; and Laura knew not whether to be most astonished at the ingenious malice which contrived to convert `` trifles , light as air , '' into certain proofs of degeneracy , or at the apathy on which the venomed shaft fell harmless . 
These discourteous scenes were exhibited only in Mr Herbert 's absence ; his presence instantly suspended Lady Pelham 's warfare ; and Laura inferred that his wife never made him acquainted with her mother 's behaviour . 
Nothing could be more tormenting to the benevolent mind of Laura , than to witness this system of aggression ; and she repented having been instrumental in renewing an intercourse that could lead to no pleasing issue . 
But the issue was nearer than she expected . 
Thus did the insolence of one person , and the hasty spirit of another , undo what Laura had for months been labouring to effect . 
The Herberts never made any attempt at reconciliation , and Lady Pelham would never afterwards hear them mentioned , without breaking out into torrents of abuse , and even imprecation , which made Laura 's blood run cold . 
Yet , with her usual inconsistency , Lady Pelham was vexed at the suspension of her intercourse with the Herberts ; because she thus lost even the shadow of power over her daughter . 
Yet Laura could not always forbear smiling at the perverse direction of her aunt 's regrets . 
Lady Pelham was angry , not that her own unkindness had driven her children from her , but that Laura 's officious benevolence had brought them to her house ; a measure from which , she was pleased to say that no person of common sense could have expected a different issue . 
The beauty and modesty of Laura charmed the men , while the women were half-inclined to think it an unfounded slander that such a good-natured , obliging , neat-handed creature studied mathematics , and read Tacitus in the original . 
Among the society to which she was introduced by Lady Pelham , and still more among that in which she mingled at Norwood , Laura met with persons of distinguished ability , rank , and politeness . 
In such company she rapidly acquired that ease of address which alone was wanting to make her manners as fascinating as they were correct . 
She grew accustomed to find herself the object of attention , and though no habit could reconcile her to the gaze of numbers , she gradually learnt to carry into these lesser occasions , the self-command which distinguished her in more important concerns . 
In real modesty and humility she improved every day ; for it was the study of her life to improve in them . 
She retained all the timidity which is the fruit of genuine sensibility and quick perception of impropriety , while she lost that bashfulness which owes its growth to solitude and inexperience . 
Her personal charms , too , increased as they approached maturity . 
The symmetry of her form and features was indeed scarcely susceptible of improvement ; but added gracefulness gave new attractions to her figure ; while the soul lent its improving strength and brightness to animate her face with charms which mere symmetry knows not . 
With such qualifications Laura could not fail to excite admiration ; yet never perhaps did beauty so seldom listen to its own praises . 
It was labour lost to compliment one who never rewarded the flatterer with one smile of gratified vanity , or repaid him with one complaisant departure from the simple truth . 
To the everyday nothings of the common herd she listened with a weariness which politeness could sometimes scarcely repress . 
`` Oh would , '' thought she , `` that civil things , as they are called , required no answer , -- or that one obliging gentleman would undertake the labour of replying to the rest ! '' 
If addressed in the language of common-place compliment by one whom she respected , her look of mortification intelligibly said , `` Has then your penetration searched me deeper than I know myself , and detected in me the more than childish weakness of valuing myself on such distinctions as those you are praising ? '' 
Laura had no personal vanity ; and therefore it required no effort to withstand such praise . 
She had more merit in the more strenuous but less successful exertions which she made to resist the silent flattery of the respectful glance that awaited her decision , besought her approbation , or reflected her sentiments . 
Sometimes she thought Montague De Courcy an adept in this sort of flattery . 
But more frequently when it was administered by him , she forgot to call it by that name ; and she was the less upon her guard against his homage , because it was never offered in any more palpable form . 
Fortified by the advice of his mother , who had convinced him that a premature disclosure of his sentiments would be fatal to his hopes , and aware , that were he even successful with Laura , some further provision must be made for his sister , ere he could with justice increase the expence of his establishment , he acted with such caution as baffled the penetration of common observers . 
In spite of the lynx eye in detecting embryo passion , which is ascribed to the sex , Montague 's secret was safe even from Laura herself ; or if a momentary suspicion had glanced across her mind , she chid it away with self accusations of vanity , and recollections of the ten thousand opportunities for a declaration which he had suffered to pass unimproved . 
Besides , Mrs De Courcy had once hinted that Montague 's little fits of melancholy and absence were occasioned by his partiality for a lady whose affections were pre-engaged ; and Laura was sure that the hint could not refer to herself . 
Her humiliating secret , she was thankful , was safely lodged in her own breast , and could never be divulged to cover her with mortification . 
That which any effort of imagination can ascribe to the influence of Cupid , no woman ever attributed to any other power ; and if , at any time , a shade crossed the open countenance of Montague , Laura called to mind his mother 's hint , and added to her truly sisterly affection a pity which lent indescribable softness to her manners towards him . 
Indeed she always treated him with undisguised regard , and Montague tried to be satisfied . 
Laura was known to have no fortune ; she had little talent for chitchat , and still less for flattery : thus amid universal admiration and general good-will , she had only two professed adorers -- one , who haunted her while present , toasted her when absent , and raved of her charms , both in prose and rhime , without ever suffering his pretensions to become so serious as to afford her a pretext for seriously repulsing them -- the other , a prudent elderly widower , who , being possessed of a good fortune , and a full-grown daughter , thought himself entitled to consult his taste without regard to pecuniary views , and conceived that Laura might be useful to the young lady in the double capacities of companion and example . 
Laura 's answer to his proposals was a firm but gentle refusal , while she assured him , that she would not abuse his confidence nor betray the trust he had reposed in her . 
The widower never mentioned his even to Lady Pelham ; and Laura , on this occasion , owed to her principle an escape from many a tedious remonstrance , and many a covert attack . 
The summer had almost glided away , and Montague continued to fluctuate between hope and fear , his mother to cherish his hopes and allay his apprehensions , Laura to be tranquil , Harriet to be gay , and Lady Pelham to exhibit , by turns , every various degree of every various humour , when one morning Miss De Courcy , who had lately returned from a visit to a companion , accompanied her brother on horseback to Walbourne . 
Lady Pelham was , as usual , engaged in her garden , but the visitors had no sooner entered the room where Laura sat , than she observed that they seemed to have exchanged characters . 
He offered to give Laura her lesson in mathematics ; and before it was half over , having completely bewildered both himself and his pupil , he tossed away the book , declaring that he never in his life was so little fit for thinking . 
After a short visit , enlivened by a hilarity which Laura found more infectious than the gravity of Harriet , he proposed leaving his sister with her friend , while he rode on to call for a gentleman in the neighbourhood . 
`` Begone , then , '' cried Laura , gaily , `` for I long to question Harriet what has given you such enviable spirits this morning . '' 
cried Laura , -- `` as if curiosity were the only name you could find for the interest I take in what makes you gay , or Harriet grave ! '' 
`` Dear Laura , '' said De Courcy , ardently , `` give the cause what name you will , if you will but think of me . '' 
Then snatching her lily hands , he pressed them to his lips , and the next moment was gone . 
Confused , surprised , a little displeased , Laura stood silently revolving his behaviour . 
Had her frankness invited the freedom ? 
` Dear Laura ! ' 
It was the first time he had ever called her by any name less respectful than Miss Montreville . 
What , '' thought she , `` can have delighted him so much ? 
And Laura was a little more angry than before . 
During her cogitation , Laura forgot that she might apply to her companion for a solution of the mystery ; perhaps she did not even recollect that Harriet was in the room , till happening to turn her head , she met a glance of sly inquisition , which , however , was instantly withdrawn . 
`` You , my dear Harriet , '' exclaimed Laura , suddenly recovering her good humour , `` is it a conquest of yours that has pleased Mr De Courcy so much ? '' 
`` Really Laura I am not sure whether it does or not ; so I am come to ask you . '' 
`` Are you sure , '' returned Laura , smiling , `` that you know what you want . '' 
Laura took the letter , and read as follows : `` I will not wrong your penetration so much as to suppose that this letter will surprise you , or that you will fail to anticipate the subject on the first glance at the signature . 
Laura could not help smiling at the composed style of this epistle , so different from the only ones of its kind with which she was conversant . 
Laura felt no inclination to envy her friend a lover so fully in the exercise of his judgment and foresight ; but she was pleased with the plain honest rationality of the letter ; and , with the materials before her , immediately busied her imagination in its favourite work of sketching and adorning character . 
She was recalled from her meditation by another petition for advice . 
`` My experience is not so extensive , '' replied Laura , `` and I can really assist you to no creditable method of trifling . '' 
Determined that on such a subject she would deliver no opinion , Laura was relieved from some embarrassment by the return of De Courcy . 
His manner increased the feeling of restraint of which Laura could not at that time divest herself ; and after a short and constrained sequel to a visit which had begun so differently , Montague hurried his sister away . 
In a few days he again saw Laura , and her sunny smile of welcome revived hopes which she little thought of fulfilling . 
He therefore considered his sister 's marriage as leaving him at full liberty to pursue his inclinations with regard to Laura , if the time should ever arrive when he could declare them without hazarding the forfeiture of even his present stinted measure of favour . 
One day Miss De Courcy expressed a wish to shew Laura the collection of paintings at a celebrated seat in the neighbourhood . 
Lady Pelham and Laura were to join the party in the grounds . 
The weather proved delightful ; and , after spending some hours in examining the paintings , in which Laura derived additional pleasure from the skilful comments of De Courcy , the party proceeded to view the grounds , when she , with almost equal delight , contemplated a finished specimen of modern landscape-gardening . 
De Courcy was certainly above the meanness of envy , yet he could not suppress a sigh as , with Mrs Penelope and his mother leaning on his arms , while Laura walked behind with Miss Bolingbroke , he followed Harriet and his friend into the darkened path that led to a hermitage . 
Laura , happily for herself , possessed a faculty not common to beauties -- she could be contented where another was the chief object of attention ; and she was actually enjoying the court that was paid to her friend , when , accidentally raising the vine leaf which held the fruit she was eating , she observed some verses pencilled on the rustic table in a hand-writing familiar to her recollection . 
Sudden instinct made her hastily replace the leaf , and steal a glance to see whether any other eye had followed her 's . 
No one seemed to have noticed her ; but Laura 's gaiety had vanished . 
The lines were distinct , as if recently traced ; and Laura 's blood ran chill at the thought , that , had she even a few hours sooner visited this spot , she might have met Colonel Hargrave . 
`` He may still be near , '' thought she ; and she wished , though she could not propose , to be instantly gone . 
None of her companions , however , seemed inclined to move . 
They continued their merriment , while Laura , her mind wholly occupied with one subject , again stole a glimpse of the writing . 
So rapidly did Laura glance over the lines , that her companions had advanced but a few paces , ere she was hastening to follow them . 
On reaching the porch , she saw that the walk was just entered by two gentlemen . 
An instant convinced her that one of them was Hargrave . 
Neither shriek nor exclamation announced this discovery , but Laura , turning pale , shrunk back out of view . 
Her first feeling was eager desire of escape ; her first thought , that , returning to the inner apartment , she might thence spring from the lofty terrace , on the verge of which the hermitage was reared . 
She was deterred , by recollecting the absurd appearance of such an escape , and the surprise and confusion it would occasion . 
There was no third way of leaving the place where she stood , and if she remained , in a few moments Hargrave would be there . 
Laura did not comment upon the free morality which accorded such a reception to such a character ; for she was sick at heart , and trembled in every limb . 
He would certainly accost her , and she must answer him -- answer him without emotion ! 
The truant crimson now rushed back unbidden ; and Laura proceeded with slow but steady steps . 
During her short walk she continued to struggle with herself . 
`` Let me but this once command myself , '' said she . 
Yet it was Laura who trembled , when , advancing towards her , Lady Pelham introduced her to Colonel Hargrave as her niece . 
Laura 's inclination of the head , cold as indifference could make it , did not seem to acknowledge former intimacy ; and when Hargrave , with a manner respectful even to timidity , claimed her acquaintance , she gave a short answer of frozen civility , and turned away . 
Mr Bolingbroke immediately joined them , and entered into conversation with Harriet ; while Mrs De Courcy continued to read the legible countenance of Laura , who silently walked on , revolving in her mind the difference between this and her last unexpected meeting with Hargrave . 
The freedom of his address to the unfriended girl who was endeavouring to exchange the labour of her hands for a pittance to support existence , -LRB- a freedom which had once found sympathetic excuse in the breast of Laura -RRB- , she now , not without indignation , contrasted with the respect offered to Lady Pelham 's niece , surrounded by the rich and the respectable . 
From idle regrets , Laura soon turned to more characteristic meditation upon the conduct most suitable for her to pursue . 
Laura thought he would probably take the first opportunity of addressing himself to her ; and if her manner towards him corresponded with the bent of her feelings , consciousness made her fear , that in her distance and constraint Lady Pelham 's already suspicious eye would read more than merely dislike to a vicious character . 
Mrs De Courcy , who guessed the current of her thoughts , suffered it to proceed without interruption ; and it was not till Laura relaxed her brow , and raised her head , like one who has taken his resolution , that her companion , stopping , complained of fatigue ; proposing , as her own carriage was not in waiting , to borrow Lady Pelham 's , and return home , leaving the other ladies to be conveyed in Mrs Penelope 's socible to Norwood , where the party was to dine . 
Not willing to direct the proposal to Laura , upon whose account chiefly it was made , she turned to Mrs Penelope , and inquired whether she did not feel tired with her walk ; but that lady , who piqued herself upon being a hale active woman of her age , declared herself able for much greater exertion , and said she would walk till she had secured an appetite for dinner . 
Laura , who had modestly held back till Mrs Penelope 's decision was announced , now eagerly offered her attendance , which Mrs De Courcy , with a little dissembled hesitation , accepted , smiling to perceive how well she had divined her young favourite 's inclinations . 
On reaching them , Mr Bolingbroke , handing in Mrs De Courcy , left Laura 's side for the first time free to Hargrave , who instantly occupied it ; while Montague , the drops standing on his forehead , found himself shackled between Mrs Penelope and Miss Bolingbroke . 
cried Laura , starting with indignant surprise . 
Lady Pelham allows me to visit Walbourne ; will you permit me to '' -- Laura had not yet studied her lesson of easy civility , and therefore the courtesy of a slight inclination of the head was contradicted by the tone in which she interrupted him , saying , `` I never presume , Sir , to select Lady Pelham 's visitors . '' 
She had reached the door of the carriage , and Hargrave took her hand to assist her in entering . 
Had Laura been prepared , she would have suffered him , though reluctantly , to do her this little service ; but he took her unawares , and snatching back her hand as from the touch of a loathsome reptile , she sprang , unassisted , into her seat . 
As the carriage drove off , Mrs De Courcy again apologized for separating Laura from her companions ; `` though I know not '' , added she , `` whether I should not rather take credit for withdrawing you from such dangerous society . 
`` He has fortunately placed the more respectable part of us in perfect security , '' returned Laura , with a smile and voice of such unembarrassed simplicity as fully satisfied her examiner . 
Had Laura spent a lifetime in studying to give pain , which , indeed , was not in all her thoughts , she could not have inflicted a sharper sting on the proud heart of Hargrave , than by the involuntary look and gesture with which she quitted him . 
They met again in evil hour , just when Hargrave had half-determined to abandon as fruitless his search after Laura . 
Had his letter afforded a clue to Laura 's residence , Hargrave would have flown direct to Walbourne , but he was first obliged to stop at -- ; and Lambert , with some difficulty , persuaded him , that , as he was but slightly known to Lady Pelham , and probably in disgrace with her protege , it would be more politic to delay his visit , and first meet them at Lord -- 's , whither he had information that they were to go on the following day . 
The vanity of extorting from Laura 's surprise some unequivocal token of his power prevailed on the lover to delay the interview till the morning ; and , after spending half the evening in dwelling on the circumstances of his last unexpected meeting with her , which distance softened in his imagination to more than its actual tenderness , he early in the morning set out with Lambert for -- , where he took post in the hermitage , as a place which no stranger omitted to visit . 
Thither he hastened ; but the party had already left the house , and thus Laura had accidental warning of his approach . 
No reception could have been more mortifying to him , who was prepared to support her sinking under the struggle of love and duty , of jealousy and pride . 
He had boasted to Lambert of her tenderness ; the specimen certainly was not flattering . 
Most of her companions were little more gracious . 
Montague had watched the cold composure of Laura on Hargrave 's first accosting her , and seen the gesture which repulsed him at parting ; and though in the accompanying look he lost volumes , his conclusions , on the whole , were favourable . 
Mrs De Courcy 's encouraging assertion was confirmed by the behaviour of Laura herself ; for she maintained her usual serene cheerfulness ; nor could even the eye of love detect more than one short fit of abstraction ; and then the subject of thought seemed any thing rather than pleasing retrospect , or glad anticipation . 
He thought , if he could speak of Hargrave to Laura , and watch her voice , her eye , her complexion , all his doubts would be solved . 
With this view , contriving to draw her a little apart , he ventured , for the first time , to name his rival ; mentioned Lady Pelham 's hint ; and , faltering , asked Laura whether he had not done wrong in resisting it . 
`` Really , '' answered Laura with a very nave smile , and a very faint blush , `` I do n't wonder you hesitate in offering me such a piece of flattery as to ask my opinion . '' 
`` Then , candidly , '' said Laura , raising her mild unembarrassed eye to his , `` I think you did right , perfectly right , in refusing your countenance to a person of Colonel Hargrave 's character . 
Though this was one of the stalest pieces of morality that ever Montague had heard Laura utter , he could scarcely refrain from repaying it by clasping her to his heart . 
Convinced that her affections were free , he could not contain his rapture , but exclaimed , `` Laura , you are an angel ! 
and , if I did not already love beyond all power of expression , I should be '' -- He raised his eyes to seek those of Laura , and met his mother 's , fixed on him with an expression that compelled him to silence . 
-- `` You should be in love with me ; '' said Laura , laughing , and filling up the sentence as she imagined it was meant to conclude . 
She drew her chair close to Laura , and soon engaged her in a conversation so animated , that Montague forgot his embarrassment , and joined them with all his natural ease and cheerfulness . 
The infection of his ease and cheerfulness Laura had ever found irresistible . 
Flashes of wit and genius followed the collision of their minds ; and the unstudied eloquence , the poetic imagery of her style , sprung forth at his touch , like blossoms in the steps of the fabled Flora . 
Happy with her friends , Laura almost forgot the disagreeable adventure of the morning ; and , every look and word mutually bestowing pleasure , the little party were as happy as affection and esteem could make them , when Lady Pelham , with an aspect like a sea fog , and a voice suitably forbidding , inquired whether her niece would be pleased to go home , or whether she preferred sitting chattering there all night . 
Laura , without any sign of noticing the rudeness of this address , rose , and said she was quite ready to attend her Ladyship . 
In vain did the De Courcys entreat her to prolong her visit till the morning . 
To dare to be happy without her concurrence , was treason against Lady Pelham 's dignity ; and unfortunately she was not in a humour to concur in the joy of any living thing . 
De Courcy 's reserve towards her new favourite she considered as a tacit reproof of her own cordiality ; and she had just such a conviction that the reproof was deserved , as to make her thoroughly out of humour with the reprover , with herself , and consequently with everybody . 
Determined to interrupt pleasure which she would not share , the more her hosts pressed her stay , the more she hastened her departure ; and she mingled her indifferent good nights to them with more energetic reprimands to the tardiness of her coachman . 
`` Thank heaven , '' said she , thrusting herself into the corner of her carriage with that jerk in her motion which indicates a certain degree of irritation , `` to-morrow we shall probably see a civilized being . '' 
Laura 's plain integrity and prudence had gained such ascendancy over Lady Pelham , that her niece 's opinion was to her Ladyship a kind of second conscience , having , indeed , much the same powers as the first -- it 's sanction was necessary to her quiet , though it had not force to control her actions . 
On the present occasion , she wished above all things to know Laura 's sentiments ; but she would not condescend to ask them directly . 
`` Colonel Hargrave 's manners are quite those of a gentleman , '' she resumed . 
The remark was entirely ineffectual ; for Laura coolly assented , without inquiring whether he were the civilized being whom Lady Pelham expected to see . 
returned Laura without moving a muscle . 
`` Probably , '' said Laura , with a smile , `` my objections would make no great difference . '' 
If Lady Pelham expected a compliment to her pliability , she was disappointed ; for Laura only answered , `` I shall never presume to interfere in the choice of your Ladyship 's visitors . '' 
That she should be thus compelled to be explicit was more than Lady Pelham 's temper could endure . 
she exclaimed with a sneer ; but , awed , in spite of herself , from the free expression of her fury , she muttered it within her shut teeth in a sentence of which the words `` close '' and `` jesuitical '' alone reached Laura 's ear . 
-- Laura had long ago observed that a slight exertion of her spirit was the best quietus to her aunt 's ill humour ; and therefore , addressing her with calm austerity , she said , `` Any young woman , Madam , who values her reputation , might object to Colonel Hargrave 's visits , merely on the score of prudence . 
To this attack Laura answered only by a smile . 
She smiled to see herself classed with the De Courcys ; for she had no doubt that they were the `` bigots '' to whom Lady Pelham referred . 
The carriage stopped , and Laura took sanctuary in her own apartment ; but at supper she met her aunt with smiles of unaffected complacency , and , according to the plan which she invariably pursued , appeared to have forgotten Lady Pelham 's fit of spleen ; by that means enabling her aunt to recover from it with as little expence to her pride as possible . 
He called at Walbourne while her Ladyship was still at her toilette ; and was shown into the drawing-room , where Laura had already taken her station . 
She rose to receive him , with an air which shewed that his visit gave her neither surprise nor pleasure ; and , motioning him to a distant seat , quietly resumed her occupation . 
He expected that Laura would shun him , with marks of strong resentment , or perhaps with the agitation of offended love ; and he was prepared for nothing but to entreat the audience which she now seemed inclined to offer him . 
The consciousness of ill desert , the frozen serenity of Laura 's manner , deprived Hargrave of courage to use the opportunity which she seemed voluntarily to throw in his way . 
He hesitated , he faltered ; while , all unlike her former self , Laura appeared determined that he should make love , for she would not aid his dilemma even by a comment on the weather . 
All the timidity which formerly marked her demeanour , was now transferred to his ; and , arranging her work with stoical composure , she raised her head to listen , as Hargrave approaching her stammered out an incoherent sentence expressive of his unalterable love , and his fears that he had offended almost beyond forgiveness . 
Laura suffered him to conclude without interruption ; then answered , in a voice mild but determined , `` I had some hopes , Sir , from your knowledge of my character and sentiments , that , after what has passed , you could have entertained no doubts on this subject . 
From the principles of Laura he had indeed dreaded much ; but he had feared nothing from her indifference . 
With a mixture of doubt , surprise , and anguish , he continued to gaze upon her after she was silent ; then starting , he exclaimed -- `` I will not believe it ; it is impossible . 
Oh , Laura , choose some other way to stab , for I can not bear this ! '' 
-- `` It pains me , '' said Laura , in a voice of undissembled concern , `` to add disappointment to the pangs which you can not but feel ; yet it were most blameable now to cherish in you the faintest expectation . '' 
`` Ah , '' said Laura , `` when I dreamt of the success of that trial , a strange infatuation hung over me . 
Half distracted with the cutting calmness of her manner , so changed since the time when every feature spoke the struggles of the heart , when the mind 's whole strength seemed collected to resist its tenderness , Hargrave again vehemently refused to believe in her indifference . '' 
`` If I have any influence with you , '' returned Laura , with a look and attitude of earnest entreaty , `` let it but this once prevail , and then be laid aside for ever . 
Or if it will move you more , '' continued she , the tears gushing from her eyes , `` I will beseech you to grant this , my only request , in memory of a love that mourned your unworthiness almost unto death . '' 
The sight of her emotion revived Hargrave 's hopes ; and , casting himself at her feet , he passionately declared , while she shuddered at the impious sentiment , that he asked no heaven but her love , and cared not what were his fate if she were lost . 
`` Ah , Sir , '' said she , with pious solemnity , `` believe me , the time is not distant when the disappointment of this passion will seem to you a sorrow light as the baffled sports of childhood . 
The ideas which Laura was labouring to introduce into the mind of Hargrave were such as he had of late too successfully endeavoured to exclude . 
The same arts which he had used to disguise from himself the extent of his criminality , he now naturally employed to extenuate it in the sight of Laura . 
He assured her that he was less guilty than she supposed ; that she could form no idea of the force of the temptation which had overcome him ; that Lady Bellamer was less the victim of his passions than of her own ; he vehemently protested that he despised and abhorred the wanton who had undone him ; and that , even in the midst of a folly for which he now execrated himself , his affections had never wandered from their first object . 
While he spoke , Laura in confusion cast down her eyes , and offended modestly suffused her face and neck with crimson . 
She could indeed form no idea of a heart which , attached to one woman , could find any temptation in the allurements of another . 
His sole desire was to wrest from Laura some token , however slight , of returning tenderness . 
The expressions which Laura once thought capable of warming the coldest heart seemed now the mere ravings of insanity ; the lamentations which she once thought might have softened rocks , now appeared the weak complainings of a child for his lost toy . 
With a mixture of pity and disgust she listened and replied ; till the entrance of Lady Pelham put a period to the dialogue , and Laura immediately quitted the room . 
He acquainted her with his pretensions to Laura , and begged her sanction to his addresses ; assuring her that his intercourse with Lady Bellamer was entirely broken off , and that his marriage would secure his permanent reformation . 
Laura had a great deal of sensibility , it would break her heart to be neglected ; and Lady Pelham was sure , that in that case the thought of having consented to the dear child 's misery would be more than she could support ! '' 
Her Ladyship was vanquished by an assurance , that for Laura to be neglected by her happy husband was utterly impossible . 
`` Laura 's inclinations then must be consulted ; every thing depended upon her concurrence , for the sweet girl had really so wound herself round Lady Pelham 's heart , that positively her Ladyship could not bear to give her a moment 's uneasiness , or to press her upon a subject to which she was at all averse . '' 
Hargrave answered by confessing his fears that he was for the present less in favour than he had once been ; but he disclosed Laura 's former confessions of partiality , and insinuated his conviction that it was smothered rather than extinguished . 
Lady Pelham could now account for Laura 's long illness and low spirits ; and she listened with eager curiosity to the solution of the enigma , which had so long perplexed her . 
The fortune which she intended bequeathing to Laura might by some be thought to confer a right to advise ; but , for her part , she thought her little all was no more than due to the person whose tender assiduities filled the blank which had been left in her Ladyship 's maternal heart by the ingratitude and disobedience of her child . '' 
She would cut off her rebellious daughter with a shilling ; give her up to the beggary and obscurity which she had chosen , and leave her whole fortune to Lady Lincourt ; for so , in the fulness of her content , she called Laura . 
After some time enjoying her niece 's prospects , or to speak more justly her own , she began to think of discovering how near they might be to their accomplishment ; and , for this purpose , she summoned Laura to a conference . 
Lady Pelham loved nothing on earth but herself ; yet vanity , gratified curiosity , and , above all , the detection of a mere human weakness reducing Laura somewhat more to her own level , awakened in her breast an emotion resembling affection , as , throwing her arms round her niece , she , in language half sportive , half tender , declared her knowledge of Laura 's secret , and reproached her with having concealed it so well . 
Insulted , wronged , and forsaken by Hargrave , Laura had kept his secret inviolable , for she had no right to disclose it ; but she scorned , by any evasion , to preserve her own . 
Glowing with shame and mortification , she stood silently shrinking from Lady Pelham 's looks ; till , a little recovering herself , she said , `` I deserve to be thus humbled for my folly in founding my regards , not on the worth of their object , but on my own imagination ; and more , if it be possible , do I deserve , for exposing my weakness to one who has been so ungenerous as to boast of it . 
Lady Pelham smiled at Laura 's security , which she did not consider as an infallible sign of safety . 
It was in vain that Laura proceeded solemnly to protest her indifference . 
Vain were Laura 's comments upon Hargrave 's character ; they were but the fond revilings of offended love . 
Laura did not deny her former preference ; she even owned that it was the sudden intelligence of Hargrave 's crimes which had reduced her to the brink of the grave ; therefore Lady Pelham was convinced that a little perseverance would fan the smothered flame ; and perseverance , she hoped , would not be wanting . 
Nevertheless , as her Ladyship balanced her fondness for contradicting by her aversion to being contradicted , and as Laura was too much in earnest to study the qualifying tone , the conference concluded rather less amicably than it began ; though it ended by Lady Pelham 's saying , not very consistently with her sentiments an hour before , that she would never cease to urge so advantageous a match , conceiving that she had a right to influence the choice of one whom she would make the heiress of forty thousand pounds . 
Laura was going to insist that all influence would be ineffectual , but her aunt quitted her without suffering her to reply . 
She would have followed to represent the injustice of depriving Mrs Herbert of her natural rights ; but she desisted on recollecting that Lady Pelham 's purposes were , like wedges , never fixed but by resistance . 
The time had been when Lady Pelham 's fortune would have seemed to Hargrave as dust in the balance , joined with the possession of Laura . 
He had gamed , had felt the want of money ; and money was no longer indifferent to him . 
But Laura 's dower was still light in his estimation , compared with its weight in that of Lambert , to whom he incidentally mentioned Lady Pelham 's intention . 
He allowed two , or perhaps even three months for the duration of Laura 's influence ; during which time he feared he should have little of her husband 's company at the gaming-table ; but from thenceforth , he judged that the day would be his own , and that he should soon possess himself of Hargrave 's property , so far as it was alienable . 
He considered that , in the meantime , Laura would furnish attraction sufficient to secure Hargrave 's stay at -- , and he trusted to his own dexterity for improving that circumstance to the best advantage . 
His time and thoughts were again devoted to Laura , and gaming was only sought as a relief from the disappointment and vexation which generally attended his pursuit . 
She was indefatigable in her attempts to promote his success with Laura . 
She lost no opportunity of pressing the subject . 
She obstinately refused to be convinced of the possibility of overcoming a strong prepossession . 
Laura , in an evil hour for herself , thoughtlessly replied , that affection was founded on the belief of excellence , and must of course give way when the foundation was removed . 
She called it Laura 's theory ; and insisted that , like other theorists , she would shut her eyes against the plainest facts , nay , stifle the feelings of her own mind , rather than admit what might controvert her opinion . 
She cited all the instances which her memory could furnish of agricultural , and chemical , and metaphysical theorism ; and , with astonishing ingenuity , contrived to draw a parallel between each of them and Laura 's case . 
It was in vain that Laura qualified , almost retracted her unlucky observation . 
Her adversary would not suffer her to desert the untenable ground . 
Delighted with her victory , she returned again and again to the attack , after the vanquished had appealed to her mercy ; and much more than `` thrice she slew the slain . '' 
Sick of arguing about the possibility of her indifference , Laura at length confined herself to simple assertions of the fact . 
She peevishly reproached Laura with taking a coquettish delight in giving pain ; insisted that her conduct was a tissue of cruelty and affectation ; and upbraided her with disingenuousness in pretending an indifference which she could not feel . 
said Laura , one day , fretted almost beyond her patience by a remonstrance of two hours continuance . 
`` Well , Madam , '' said Laura , with a sigh and shrug of impatient resignation , `` nothing remains but that I shew a consistency , which , at least , is not common to affectation . '' 
They brought balm to his wounded pride , and he easily suffered them to counteract the effect of Laura 's calm and uniform assurances of her indifference . 
While he listened to these , her apparent candour and simplicity , the regret she expressed at the necessity of giving pain , brought temporary conviction to his mind ; and , with transports of alternate rage and grief , he now execrated her inconstancy , then his own unworthiness ; now abjured her , then the vices which had deprived him of her affection . 
The well-known principle of our nature which adds charms to what is unattainable , lent new attractions to Laura 's really improved loveliness . 
He laboured to awaken the pity of Laura ; he even condescended to appeal to her ambition ; and persevered , in spite of unequivocal denials , till Laura , disgusted , positively refused ever again to admit him without witnesses . 
His public attentions were , if possible , still more distressing to her . 
Encouraged by Lady Pelham , he , notwithstanding the almost repulsive coldness of Laura 's manner , became her constant attendant . 
He pursued her wherever she went ; placed himself , in defiance of propriety , so as to monopolize her conversation : and seemed to have laid aside all his distinguishing politeness , while he neglected every other woman to devote his assiduities to her alone . 
He claimed the station by her side till Laura had the mortification to observe that others resigned it at his approach ; he snatched every opportunity of whispering his adulations in her ear ; and , far from affecting any concealment in his preference , seemed to claim the character of her acknowledged adorer . 
It is impossible to express the vexation with which Laura endured this indelicate pre-eminence . 
Had Hargrave been the most irreproachable of mankind , she would have shrunk from such obtrusive marks of his partiality ; but her sense of propriety was no less wounded by the attendance of such a companion , than her modesty was shocked by her being thus dragged into the notice , and committed to the mercy of the public . 
Laura unspeakably averse to being the subject of even laudatory observation , could sometimes scarcely restrain the tears of shame and mortification that were wrung from her by attacks which she could neither resent nor escape . 
In spite of the natural sweetness of her temper , she was sometimes tempted to retort upon Colonel Hargrave the vexation which he caused to her ; and his officiousness almost compelled her to forsake the civility within the bounds of which she had determined to confine her coldness . 
His whole conduct conspired to make him an object of real dread to Laura , though her watchful self-command and habitual benevolence preserved him from her aversion . 
Sometimes she could not help wondering at the obstinacy of her persecutor . 
`` Surely , '' said she to him , `` after all I have said , after the manner in which I have said it , you can not expect any fruit from all these rhapsodies ; you must merely think your honour bound to keep them up , at whatever hazard to the credit of your understanding . '' 
Laura had never herself submitted to be driven into a course of actions contrary to reason , and it never occurred to her that her lover had no reason for his conduct , except that he was not sufficiently master of himself to desist from his pursuit . 
From the importunities of Hargrave , however , Laura could sometimes escape . 
He could not always be at Walbourne ; he could not intrude into her apartment . 
She visited sometimes where he was not admitted , or she could decline the invitation which she knew extended to him . 
But her persecutions by Lady Pelham had no intermission ; from them she had no retreat . 
Her chamber was no sanctuary from so familiar a friend ; and the presence of strangers only served to exercise her Ladyship in that ingenious species of conversation which addresses to the sense of one of the company what it conveys to the ear of the rest . 
For some time she employed all her forces in combating Laura 's supposed affectation ; and when , not without extreme difficulty , she was convinced that she strove against a phantom of her own creation , she next employed her efforts to alter her niece 's determination . 
She tried to rouse her ambition ; and again and again expatiated on all the real and on all the imaginary advantages of wealth and title . 
The theme in her Ladyship 's hands seemed inexhaustible , though Laura repeatedly declared that no earthly thing could be less in her esteem than distinctions which she must share with such a person as Hargrave . 
Every day and all day , the subject was canvassed , and the oft-confuted argument vamped up anew , till Laura was thoroughly weary of the very names of rank , and influence , and coronets , and coaches . 
Next , her Ladyship was eloquent upon Laura 's implacability . 
`` Those who were so very unforgiving , '' she supposed , `` were conscious that they had no need to be forgiven . 
Laura stood amazed at the strength of self-deception which could produce this sentiment from lips which had pronounced inextinguishable resentment against an only child . 
Recovering herself , she calmly made the obvious reply , `` that she entertained no enmity against Hargrave ; that on the contrary , she sincerely wished him every blessing , and the best of all blessings , a renewed mind ; but that the Christian precept was never meant to make the vicious and the impure the denizens of our bosoms . '' 
It was in vain for Laura to disclaim them . 
Lady Pelham could prove incontrovertibly that they were Laura 's sentiments ; or , which was the same thing , proceeded as if she had proved it . 
She insisted that Laura acted on a principle of revenge against Hargrave , for the slight his inconstancy had put upon her ; and argued most convincingly on the folly and wickedness of a revengeful spirit . 
Laura in vain protested her innocence . 
Lady Pelham was certain of the fact ; and she dilated on the guilt of such a sentiment , and extenuated the temporary secession of Hargrave , till a bystander must have concluded that Laura was the delinquent , and he her harmless victim . 
Her Ladyship declared , that `` she did not wonder at her niece 's obduracy . 
`` She stood in the place of Laura 's parents , and in their title might claim authority . '' 
But finding Laura firmly of opinion that parental authority extended no further than a negative voice , Lady Pelham laid aside the imperative tone to take up that of entreaty . 
`` She would not advance the claim which her tried friendship might give her to advise ; she would only beseech , conjure . 
She hoped her importunities would be forgiven , as they could proceed only from the tenderest regard to her dear girl 's welfare . 
Laura was her only hope ; the sole being on earth to whom her widowed heart clung with partial affection -- and to see her thus throw away her happiness was more than her Ladyship could bear . '' 
Closely as Laura had studied her aunt 's character , and well as it was now known to her , she was sometimes overpowered by these expressions of love and sorrow ; and wept as she was compelled to repeat that her happiness and her duty must alike be sacrificed ere she could yield to the wishes of her friend . 
But as she never , even in these moments of softness , betrayed the smallest symptom of compliance , Lady Pelham had not patience to adhere to the only method of attack that possessed a chance of success . 
Of all her arts of teazing , this was indeed the most distressing to a person of Laura 's sensibility , and she felt not a little relieved when , exasperated by the failure of all her efforts , Lady Pelham burst into vehement upbraidings of her niece 's hardness of heart . 
`` She could not have conceived , '' she said , `` such obduracy in one so young ; in woman too ; a creature who should be all made up of softness . 
Laura might pique herself upon her stoicism , but a Zeno in petticoats was , in her opinion , a monster . 
For her part she never could resist entreaty in her life . '' 
`` Then I beseech you , Madam , '' said Laura , after having patiently submitted to be baited thus for three full hours , `` do not make mine an exception ; but for pity 's sake be prevailed upon to drop this subject . 
`` Is it possible , '' cried Laura , losing patience at this prospect of the continuation of her persecutions , `` that your Ladyship can think it for my ` advantage ' to marry a man I despise ; for my ` honour ' to share the infamy of an adulterer ! '' 
A smile , not wholly free from sarcasm , played on Laura 's lips . 
`` If delicacy , '' said she , `` be henceforth to find so strenuous a supporter in your Ladyship , I shall hope to be exempted in future from all remonstrance on the subject of this evening 's altercation . '' 
If Laura really entertained the hope she mentioned , she was miserably disappointed ; for Lady Pelham remitted not a jot of her tormentings . 
Laura 's attempts to avoid the subject were altogether vain . 
Teazed and persecuted , disturbed in every useful occupation and every domestic enjoyment , Laura often considered of the possibility of delivering herself from her indefatigable tormentors , by quitting the protection of her aunt and taking refuge with Mrs Douglas . 
Laura knew that her cousins , the Herberts , were poor . 
She knew that Mrs Herbert was in a situation which needs comforts that poverty can not command , and it was vain to expect these comforts from the maternal compassion of Lady Peham . 
But Mrs De Courcy had never hinted a wish that Laura should be a permanent inmate of her family ; and , even if she had , there would have been a glaring impropriety in forsaking Lady Pelham 's house for one in its immediate neighbourhood . 
Though Laura could not escape the attacks of Lady Pelham , she sometimes found means to elude those of Hargrave . 
She had thus remained a sort of prisoner for some weeks , when her aunt one morning entered her room with an aspect which Laura could not well decipher . 
`` Well , Miss Montreville , '' said she , `` you have at last accomplished your purpose ; your capricious tyranny has prevailed at last ; Colonel Hargrave leaves -- this morning . '' 
`` Dear Madam , '' cried Laura , starting up overjoyed , `` What a deliverance ! '' 
`` I trust he will keep his word , '' said Laura ; `` and when I am sure he is gone , I will beg of your Ladyship to excuse me for a few hours , while I walk to Norwood . 
`` I am afraid , my dear , '' returned Lady Pelham , with more gentleness than she was accustomed to use in contradiction , `` you will scarcely find time to visit Mrs De Courcy . 
Practice had made Laura pretty expert in interpreting her aunt 's language , and she understood more in the present instance than it was meant she should comprehend . 
She had heard of Mrs Bathurst 's fame , and , knowing that it was not quite spotless , was rather averse to being the companion of Lady Pelham 's visit ; but she never , without mature deliberation , refused compliance with her aunt 's wishes ; and she resolved to consider the matter before announcing opposition . 
Laura felt as if a mountain had been lifted from her breast as she bounded across the lawn , and thought that Colonel Hargrave was , by this time , miles distant from Walbourne ; but as she pursued her way , she began to wonder that Lady Pelham seemed so little moved by his departure . 
It was strange that she , who had remonstrated so warmly , so unceasingly , against Laura 's behaviour to him , did not more vehemently upbraid her with its consequences . 
Lady Pelham 's forbearance was not in character -- Laura did not know how to explain it . 
`` I have taken her by surprise , '' thought she , `` with my excursion to Norwood , but she will discuss it at large in the evening ; and probably in many an evening -- I shall never hear the last of it . '' 
It was needless , however , to anticipate evil , and Laura turned her thoughts to the explanation which she was bent upon making to her friends . 
The more she reflected , the more she was persuaded that De Courcy suspected her of encouraging the addresses of Hargrave ; addresses now provokingly notorious to all the neighbourhood . 
He had most probably communicated the same opinion to his mother ; and Laura wished much to exculpate herself , if she could do so without appearing officiously communicative . 
If she could meet Mr De Courcy alone , if he should lead to the subject , or if it should accidentally occur , she thought she might be able to speak freely to him ; more freely than even to Mrs De Courcy . 
It was Montague De Courcy ; and , as he leisurely advanced , Laura 's heart beat with a hope that he would , as he had often done before , dismount to accompany her walk . 
But Montague , though evidently in no haste to reach the place of his destination , stopped only to make a slight inquiry after her health , and then passed on . 
Laura 's bosom swelled with grief , unmixed with resentment . 
`` He thinks , '' said she , `` that I invite the attentions of a libertine ; and is it surprising that he should withdraw his friendship from me ! 
And again she more cheerfully pursued her way . 
Her courage failed her a little as she entered Norwood . 
`` What if Mrs De Courcy too should receive me coldly , '' thought she ; `` Can I notice it to her ? 
These thoughts gave Laura an air of timidity and embarrassment as she entered the room where Mrs De Courcy was sitting alone . 
Laura assured her that it was wholly involuntary , but `` of late , '' said she , hesitating , `` I have been very little from home . '' 
Laura smiling was about to reply , that being in no danger of forfeiting that privilege , she would most joyfully attend Miss De Courcy ; but she met a glance of such marked , such mournful scrutiny , that she stopped ; and the next moment was covered with blushes . 
Her embarrassment confirmed Mrs De Courcy 's belief ; but , unwilling further to distress Laura , she said , `` Harriet herself will talk over all these matters with you , and then your own peculiar manner will soften the refusal into somewhat almost as pleasing as consent ; if indeed you are obliged to refuse . '' 
`` Indeed , Madam , '' said Laura , `` nothing can be farther from my thoughts than refusal ; I shall most willingly , most gladly , attend Miss De Courcy ; but may I -- will you allow me to -- to ask you why you should expect me to refuse ? '' 
`` I will promise to be candid with you on every subject , '' said Laura , rejoiced at this opportunity of entering on her justification . 
cried Laura , the tears of mortification filling her eyes . 
But , in this instance , I thought my authority indisputable ; Lady Pelham '' -- `` Is it possible , '' cried Laura , `` that my aunt could propagate such a report , when she knew the teasing , the persecution that I have endured ! '' 
exclaimed Laura . 
Laura now frankly informed Mrs De Courcy of the inquietude she had suffered from the persevering remonstrances of Lady Pelham , and the obtrusive assiduities of Hargrave . 
Mrs De Courcy , though she sincerely pitied the comfortless situation of Laura , listened with pleasure to the tale . 
said she , `` so confidential that I must not mention it even to Montague or Harriet ? '' 
`` Oh no , indeed , Madam , '' cried Laura ; `` I wish , above all things , that Mr De Courcy should know it ; tell him all , Madam ; and tell him too , that I would rather be in my grave than marry Colonel Hargrave . '' 
Laura had scarcely spoken ere she blushed for the warmth with which she spoke , and Mrs De Courcy 's smile made her blush again , and more deeply . 
But why did not my sweet Laura take refuge from her tormentors at Norwood , where no officious friends , no obtrusive lovers would have disturbed her quiet ? '' 
Laura excused herself , by saying that she was sure her aunt would never have consented to her absence for more than a few hours ; but she promised , that , now when Lady Pelham 's particular reason for detaining her was removed , she would endeavour to obtain permission to spend some time at Norwood . 
`` I fear I must first pay a much less agreeable visit , '' continued Laura , `` for my aunt talks of carrying me to-morrow to the house of a Mrs Bathurst , of whom you probably have heard . '' 
She did not , however , think it proper , by expressing her opinion , to heighten Laura 's reluctance towards what she probably could not prevent ; and therefore merely expressed a strong wish that Lady Pelham would permit Laura to spend the time of her absence at Norwood . 
Laura , though she heartily wished the same , knew her aunt too well to expect that a purpose which she had once announced she would relinquish merely because it interfered with the inclinations of others . 
Laura lingered with Mrs De Courcy for several hours , and when at last she was obliged to go , received , at parting , many a kind injunction to remember her promised visit . 
As she bent her steps homeward , she revolved in her mind every chance of escape from being the companion of her aunt 's journey . 
She was the more averse to attend Lady Pelham , because she conjectured that they would not return before Miss De Courcy 's marriage , on which occasion Laura was unwilling to be absent . 
But she was sensible that neither this nor any other reason she could urge , would in the least affect Lady Pelham 's motions . 
Laura had quitted the avenue of Norwood and entered the lane which led to that of Walbourne , when the noise of singing , for it could not be called music , made her look round ; and she perceived that she was overtaken by a figure in a dingy regimental coat , and a rusty hat , which , however , regained somewhat of its original shade by a contrast with the grey side-locks which blew up athwart it . 
Laura , retaining the habits of her country , addressed the man with a few words of courtesy , to which he replied with the frankness and garrulity of an old Englishman ; and as they proceeded at much the same pace , they continued the conversation . 
`` Do n't dismount , '' said Laura , who now first observed that her companion had but one leg -- `` I can lift it for you . '' 
As she raised it , Laura observed that it was directed to Mr Jones , at Squire Bathurst 's , Derham Green , -- shire . 
Though the name was too common to excite any suspicion , the address struck her as being to the same place which had so lately occupied her thoughts . 
`` Have you far to go , '' said she to the man . 
Lady Pelham , finding Laura unmanageable at home , was contriving that she should meet Colonel Hargrave at a place where , being among strangers , she would find it less possible to avoid him . 
In the first burst of indignation at the discovery of her aunt 's treachery , Laura thought of retracing her steps to Norwood , never more to enter the presence of her unworthy relation ; but , resentment cooling at the recollection of the benefits she owed to Lady Pelham , she determined on returning to Walbourne , to announce in person her refusal to go with her aunt ; conceiving this to be the most respectful way of intimating her intention . 
As soon as she reached home she retired to her chamber without seeing Lady Pelham ; and immediately dispatched the following note to Mrs De Courcy . 
Lady Pelham in high good humour , Laura grave and thoughtful . 
Lady Pelham mentioned her journey ; but , dreading to rouse her aunt 's unwearied powers of objurgation , Laura kept silence ; and her just displeasure rendering her averse to Lady Pelham 's company , she contrived to spend the evening chiefly alone . 
As the supper hour approached , Laura began to tremble for the contest which awaited her . 
She felt herself more than half inclined to withdraw from the storm , by departing without warning , and leaving Lady Pelham to discover the reason of her flight after she was beyond the reach of her fury . 
The supper passed in quiet ; Laura unwilling to begin the attack ; Lady Pelham glorying in her expected success . 
Her Ladyship had taken her candle , and was about to retire , before Laura durst venture on the subject . 
`` I fear , '' replied Laura , `` I may rather say farewell , since it will be so long ere I see you again . '' 
`` That I can not accompany you to Mrs Bathurst 's , '' replied Laura ; fetching , at the close of her speech , a breath longer than the speech itself . 
`` Since it is your wish that I should , '' returned Laura , meekly , `` I am sorry that it is not in my power . '' 
Laura reddened at this vulgar abuse of a person whom she revered so highly ; but she had set a guard upon her temper , and only answered , that it was not at Norwood she received her information . 
`` A fortunate , I should rather say a providential accident , '' said she , `` disclosed to me the whole '' -- the word ` stratagem ' was rising to her lips , but she exchanged it for one less offensive . 
`` Not with Colonel Hargrave , Madam , '' said Laura coolly . 
Lady Pelham 's rage was now strong enough to burst the restraints of Laura 's habitual ascendancy . 
`` But I say you shall go , Miss , '' cried she in a scream that mingled the fierceness of anger with the insolence of command . 
`` Indeed , Madam , '' said Laura , `` I do not forget -- I never shall forget -- what I owe you ; nor that when I was shelterless and unprotected , you received and cherished me . '' 
`` Then shew that you remember it , and do what I desire , '' returned Lady Pelham , softened in spite of herself , by the resistless sweetness of Laura 's look and manner . 
`` Do not , I beseech you , Madam , '' said Laura , `` insist upon this proof of my gratitude . 
`` I beg , Madam , '' said Laura , entreatingly , `` I beg of you not to command what I shall be compelled to refuse . '' 
shrieked Lady Pelham , in a voice scarce articulate with passion , and grasping Laura 's arm in the convulsion of her rage . 
Laura had sometimes been the witness , but seldom the object of her aunt 's transports ; and while Lady Pelham stood eyeing her with a countenance `` fierce as ten furies , '' she , conscious with what burning shame she would herself have shrunk from making such an exhibition , sympathetically averted her eyes as if the virago had been sensible of the same feeling . 
obstinate '' -- `` Because , '' answered Laura with saint-like meekness , `` I can say nothing but what will offend you -- I can not go to Mrs Bathurst 's '' Angry opposition Lady Pelham might have retorted with some small remains of self-possession , but the serenity of Laura exasperating her beyond all bounds , she was so far transported as to strike her a violent blow . 
Without uttering a syllable , Laura took her candle and quitted the room ; while Lady Pelham , herself confounded at the outrage she had committed , made no attempt to detain her . 
Laura retired to her chamber , and sat quietly down to consider the state of her warfare , which she determined to conclude by letter , without exposing her person to another assault ; but in a few minutes she was stormed in her citadel , and the enemy entered , conscious of mistake , but with spirit unbroken . 
Advancing towards Laura with an air intended to express offended majesty -LRB- for studied dignity is generally the disguise chosen by conscious degradation -RRB- , she began , `` Miss Montreville , do you , in defiance of my commands , adhere to your resolution of not visiting Mrs Bathurst ? '' 
replied Laura , provoked that Lady Pelham should expect to intimidate her by a blow ; `` I have seen no reason to relinquish it . '' 
-- `` There is a reason , however , '' returned Lady Pelham , elevating her chin , curling her upper lip , and giving Laura the side-glance of disdain , `` though probably it is too light to weigh with such a determined Lady , and that is , that you must either prepare to attend me to-morrow , or return to that beggary from which I took you , and never more enter my presence . '' 
`` Then , Madam , '' said Laura , rising with her native mien of calm command , `` we must part ; for I can not go to Mrs `` Bathurst 's . '' 
Laura 's cool resistance of a threat which was expected to be all powerful , discomposed Lady Pelham 's heroics . 
`` Certainly , if you desire it , Madam , '' answered Laura , with unmoved self-possession ; `` but , perhaps , if you please , I had better remain here till morning . 
`` Then I hope , '' said Laura , `` your Ladyship will allow a servant to accompany me to Norwood . 
`` There is fine moonlight , '' said Laura , looking calmly from the window , `` I dare say I shall be safe enough alone . '' 
Weary of such low abuse , Laura took her bonnet , and was leaving the room . 
`` To the only shelter the England affords me , '' returned Laura ; `` to the only friends from whom death or distance does not sever me . '' 
Laura making no attempt to obtain release , quietly sat down expecting a renewal of the charge . 
Soon , however , all the household seemed still , and Laura having mingled with the prayer that commended herself to the care of heaven , a supplication for pardon and amendment to her aunt , retired to sound and refreshing rest . 
On quitting Laura , Lady Pelham went to bed , pride and anger in her breast fiercely struggling against a sense of blame . 
If her niece left her house in displeasure , if a breach were known to subsist between them , was it not most likely that Laura would in her own defence relate the treatment to which she had been subjected ? 
At all events , if she went to Norwood before a reconciliation took place , she would certainly explain her situation to Mrs De Courcy ; and Lady Pelham could not brave the contempt of the woman whom she disliked and abused . 
Lady Pelham even feared the calm displeasure of Laura , and shrunk from meeting the reproving eye of even the dependent girl whom she had persecuted and reproached and insulted . 
By degrees , Laura 's habitual ascendancy was completely restored , perhaps with added strength for its momentary suspension ; for she had rather gained in respectability by patient endurance , while Lady Pelham was somewhat humbled by a sense of misconduct . 
Besides , in the course of eight months residence under her roof , Laura was become necessary to her aunt . 
Her prudence , her good temper , her various domestic talents , were ever at hand to supply the capital defects of Lady Pelham 's character . 
Lady Pelham could not justly be said to love any mortal , but she felt the advantages of the method and regularity which Laura had introduced into her family ; Laura 's beauty gratified her vanity ; Laura 's sweetness bore with her caprice ; Laura 's talents amused her solitude ; and she made as near an approach as nature would permit to loving Laura . 
What was of more consequence , Laura was popular in the neighbourhood ; her story would be no sooner told than believed ; and Lady Pelham 's lively imagination strongly represented to her the aggravation , commentary , and sarcasm , with which such an anecdote would be circulated . 
An observing eye , therefore , would have seen more of conceit than of humility in her air , when early in the morning she entered Laura 's apartment . 
Laura was already dressed , and returned her aunt 's salutation a little more coldy than she had ever formerly done , though with perfect good humour . 
Lady Pelham approached and took her hand ; Laura did not withdraw it . 
Laura looked down and said nothing . 
`` I am willing to own I was to blame , '' continued her Ladyship , `` but people of strong feelings , you know , my dear , can not always command themselves . '' 
Laura was still silent . 
`` We must forget and forgive the failings of our friends , '' proceeded her Ladyship . 
Laura , who dreaded that these overtures of peace only covered a projected attack , still stood speechless . 
`` Will you not forgive me , Laura ? '' 
`` I do , Madam , '' said Laura , clasping Lady Pelham 's hand between her own . 
Laura had so often listened to similar nonsense , that it had ceased to provoke a smile . 
`` Let us talk of this no more , '' said she ; `` let me rather try to persuade you not only to excuse , but sanction the obstinacy that offended you . '' 
`` Ah Laura , '' returned Lady Pelham , smiling , `` I must not call you obstinate , but you are very firm . 
`` If the length of your visit depend upon me , '' answered Laura , waving a subject on which she was determined not to forfeit her character for firmness , `` it shall be short indeed , for I shall long to offer some reparation for all my late perverseness and disobedience . '' 
Laura answered that she did ; and had promised to breakfast there that morning . 
She extolled Laura 's prudence , her sweet and forgiving disposition , her commendable reserve with strangers , and her caution in speaking of herself , or of her own affairs . 
Unfortunately for the effect of the flattery , Laura recollected that some of these qualities had at times been the subject of Lady Pelham 's severe reprehension . 
She had even recourse to a new expedient , and for the first time made Laura an offer of money . 
With infinite difficulty did Laura suppress the indignation which swelled her breast . 
She had forgiven abuse and insult , but it was beyond endurance that her aunt should suppose that her pardon and silence might be bought . 
Restraining her anger , however , she positively refused the money ; and bidding Lady Pelham farewell , departed , amidst pressing injunctions to remain at Norwood no longer than till her aunt returned to Walbourne ; her Ladyship protesting that her own home would not be endurable for an hour without the company of her dear Laura . 
Even Hargrave 's politeness was no match for his vexation , when he saw Lady Pelham , late in the evening , alight from her carriage , unaccompanied by Laura . 
He listened with impatience to her Ladyship 's apology and confused explanations ; and more than half-resolved upon returning to -- to carry on his operations there . 
The travellers , therefore , next day pursued their journey to Derham Green , beguiling the way by joint contrivances to conquer the stubbornness of Laura . 
Laura had proceeded but a short way towards Norwood when she was met by De Courcy , who , with a manner the most opposite to his coldness on the preceding day , sprang forward to meet her , his countenance radiant with pleasure . 
Laura , delighted with the change , playfully reproached him with his caprice . 
Montague coloured , but defended himself with spirit ; and a dialogue , more resembling flirtation than any in which Laura had ever engaged , occupied them till , as they loitered along the dark avenue of Norwood , a shade of the sentimental began to mingle with their conversation . 
De Courcy had that morning resolved , firmly resolved , that while Laura was his guest at Norwood , he would avoid a declaration of his sentiments . 
On the contrary , he was persuaded that he had hitherto awakened in Laura no sentiment beyond friendship , and that she must become accustomed to him as a lover , before he could hope for any farther grace . 
He considered how embarrassing would be her situation in a house of which the master was a repulsed , perhaps a rejected , admirer ; and he had determined not to hazard embittering to her a residence from which she had at present no retreat . 
Yet the confiding manner , the bewitching loveliness of Laura , the stillness , shade , and solitude of their path had half-beguiled him of his prudence , when , fortunately for his resolution , he saw Harriet advancing to meet her friend . 
Harriet 's liveliness soon restored gaiety to the conversation ; and the party proceeded less leisurely than before to Norwood , where Laura was received with affectionate cordiality by Mrs De Courcy . 
Never had the time appeared to Laura to fly so swiftly as now . 
Laura had a mind capable of intense application ; and therefore could exalt relaxation into positive enjoyment . 
But the pleasure which a vigorous understanding takes in the exercise of its powers , was now heightened in her hours of study , by the assistance , the approbation of De Courcy ; and the hours of relaxation he enlivened by a manner which , at once frank and respectful , spirited and kind , seemed peculiarly fitted to adorn the domestic circle . 
A part of every day was employed by Mrs De Courcy in various works of charity ; and , joining in these , Laura returned with satisfaction to a habit which she had unwillingly laid aside during her residence in London , and but imperfectly resumed at Walbourne . 
Amiable , rational , and pious , the family at Norwood realized all Laura 's day-dreams of social happiness ; and the only painful feeling that assailed her mind arose from the recollection that the time of her visit was fast stealing away . 
Her visit was , however , prolonged by a fortunate cold which detained Lady Pelham at Derham Green ; and Laura could not regret an accident which delayed her separation from her friends . 
Indeed she began to dread Lady Pelham 's return , both as the signal of her departure from Norwood , and as a prelude to the renewal of her persecutions on account of Hargarve . 
Far from having , as Lady Pelham had insinuated , renounced his pursuit , he returned in a few days from Mrs Bathurst 's ; again established himself with Lambert ; and , though he could not uninvited intrude at Norwood , contrived to beset Laura as often as she passed its bounds . 
In the few visits which she paid , she generally encountered him ; and he regularly waylaid her at church . 
But he had lost an able coadjutor in Lady Pelham ; and now , when no one present was concerned to assist his designs , and when Laura was protected by kind and considerate friends , she generally found means to escape his officious attentions ; though , remembering his former jealousy of Montague , and the irritability of his temper , she was scrupulously cautious of marking her preference of De Courcy , or of appearing to take sanctuary with him from the assiduities of Hargrave . 
Indeed , notwithstanding the mildness of De Courcy 's disposition , she was not without fear that he might be involved in a quarrel by the unreasonable suspicions of Hargrave , who had often taxed her with receiving his addresses , ascribing his own failure to their success . 
The most trivial sentence which De Courcy addressed to Laura , drew from Hargrave looks of enmity and defiance ; while Montague , on his part , returned these aggressions by a cool disdain , the most opposite to the conciliating frankness of his general manners . 
Laura 's alarm lest Hargrave 's ill-concealed aversion should burst into open outrage , completed the dread with which he inspired her ; and she felt like one subjected to the thraldom of an evil genius , when he one day announced to her that he had procured leave to remove his regiment to -- ; in order , as he said , `` that he might be at hand to assert his rights over her . '' 
He conveyed this information as , rudely preventing Mr Bolingbroke and De Courcy , he led her from Mrs De Courcy 's carriage into church . 
Laura durst not challenge his presumptuous expression , for Montague was close by her side , and she dreaded that his aversion to arrogance and oppression should induce him to engage in her quarrel . 
It was some time ere the service began , and Laura could not help casting glances of kind inquiry on the saddened face , which , a few minutes before , she had seen bright with animation and delight . 
While she observed him darting a scowl of malice and aversion on the man to whom he owed his life , Laura shuddered ; and wondering at the infatuation which had so long disguised his true character , bent her head , acknowledged her short-sightedness , and resigned the future events of her life to the disposal of heaven . 
It was the day immediately preceding Harriet 's marriage , and neither she nor Mrs De Courcy was in church ; Laura therefore returned home tte  tte with Montague . 
`` Disturbed , then , '' said Laura . 
De Courcy was silent for a moment , and then taking her hand , said , `` May I be candid with you ? '' 
`` Surely , '' returned Laura . 
`` Ah , '' cried Laura , `` you have then heard all . 
`` It were ungrateful to doubt your friendly interest in me , '' replied Laura . 
`` Because , '' answered Laura , `` I feared to draw your attention . 
His violence terrifies me , and I feared that -- that you might '' -- She felt the awkwardness of appearing to expect that De Courcy should engage in a quarrel on her account , but the simple truth ever rose so naturally to her lips , that she could not even qualify it without confusion . 
`` I feared , '' replied Laura , recovering herself , `` that the interest you take in the daughter of your friend might expose you to the rudeness of this overbearing man . '' 
`` And did you upon my account , dearest Laura , submit to this insolence ? '' 
With surprise and displeasure , Laura read the triumphant glance which accompanied his words . 
`` Is it possible , '' thought she , `` that , well as he knows me , he can thus mistake the nature of my regard ! 
Snatching away the hand which he was pressing to his lips , she coldly replied , `` I should have been equally attentive to the safety of any common stranger had I expected his interference , and Colonel Hargrave 's speeches can not divert my attention even from the most trivial object in nature . '' 
Poor De Courcy , his towering hopes suddenly levelled with the dust , shrunk from the frozen steadiness of her eye . 
Grieved at the pain she saw she had occasioned , Laura would fain have said something to mitigate the repulse which she had given : but a new light began to dawn upon her , and she feared to conciliate the friend lest she should encourage the lover . 
Fortunately for the relief of her embarrassment the carriage stopped . 
De Courcy gravely and in silence handed her from it ; and , hurrying to her chamber , she sat down to reconsider the dialogue she had just ended . 
De Courcy 's manner more than his words recalled a suspicion which she had oftener than once driven from her mind . 
She was impressed , she scarcely knew why , with a conviction that she was beloved . 
For some moments this idea alone filled her thoughts ; the next that succeeded was recollection that she ought sincerely to lament a passion which she could not return . 
It was her duty to be sorry , very sorry indeed , for such an accident ; to be otherwise would have argued the most selfish vanity , the most hard-hearted ingratitude towards the best of friends , and the most amiable of mankind . 
Yet she was not very sorry ; it was out of her power to convince herself that she was ; so she imputed her philosophy under her misfortune to doubtfulness of its existence . 
`` But after all , '' said she to herself , `` his words could not bear such a construction ; and for his manner -- who would build any thing upon a manner ! 
But he shall never again have reason to think me vain or ungrateful ; '' and Laura hastened down stairs that she might lose no time in convincing De Courcy that she did not suspect him of being her lover , and highly valued him as a friend . 
She found him in the drawing-room , pensively resting his forehead against the window sash ; and approaching him , spoke some trifle with a smile so winning , so gracious , that De Courcy soon forgot both his wishes and his fears , enjoyed the present , and was happy . 
She even forgot her bridal finery ; and when Laura went to inform her of Mr Bolingbroke 's arrival , she found her in the library ; sitting on the ground in tears , her head resting on the seat of an old-fashioned elbow-chair . 
She sprang up as Laura entered ; and dashing the drops from her eyes , cried , `` I have been trying to grew young again for a few minutes , before I am made an old woman for life . 
Laura drew her away , and she forgot the old elbow-chair when she saw the superb diamonds which were lying on her dressing-table . 
`` Pure , unadorned , virgin white , '' said Miss Bolingbroke , looking at Laura ; `` the proper attire of angels ! '' 
He then placed himself by her side ; and while she continued to praise Laura , gave her credit for all that is most amiable in woman . 
The moment he left her she ran to rally Laura upon her conquest . 
`` Nonsense , '' cried Laura , colouring crimson ; `` what can make you think so ? '' 
`` If he was so complimentary , '' said Laura , smiling , `` it seems more likely that he is in love with you . '' 
`` Fully as probable as the other , '' answered Laura ; and turned away to avoid a subject which she was striving to banish from her thoughts . 
During the few days which Laura and the De Courcys spent with the newly-married pair , Miss Bolingbroke 's observations served to confirm her opinion ; and merely for the pleasure of speaking of Montague , she rallied Laura incessantly on her lover . 
In weighing credibilities , small weight of testimony turns the scale ; and Laura began alternately to wonder what retarded De Courcy 's declaration , and to tax herself with vanity in expecting that he would ever make one . 
She disliked her stay at Orfordhall , and counted the hours till her return to Norwood . 
De Courcy 's attentions she had long placed to the account of a regard which , while she was permitted to give it the name of friendship , she could frankly own that she valued above any earthly possession . 
These attentions were now so familiar to her , that they were become almost necessary , and she was vexed at being constantly reminded that she ought to reject them . 
She had therefore a latent wish to return to a place where she would have a legitimate claim to his kindness , and where at least there would be no one to remind her that she ought to shrink from it . 
Besides , she was weary of the state and magnificence that surrounded her . 
While Harriet glided into the use of her finery as if she had been accustomed to it from her cradle , Laura could by no means be reconciled to it . 
She endured with impatience a meal of three hours long ; could not eat while six footmen were staring at her ; started , if she thoughtlessly leant her head against the white damask wall ; and could not move with ease , where every gesture was repeated in endless looking-glasses . 
With pleasure , therefore , she saw the day arrive which was to restore her to easy hospitality , and respectable simplicity at Norwood ; but that very day she received a summons to attend her aunt at Walbourne . 
Unwilling as Laura was to quit her friends , she did not delay to comply with Lady Pelham 's requisition . 
Though Laura esteems you , perhaps more than esteems you , she is convinced that she is invulnerable to love ; and it may be so , but her fancied security is all in your favour . '' 
Weary of suspense , however , De Courcy often resolved to know his fate ; and often went to Walbourne , determined to learn ere he returned , whether a circle of pleasing duties was to fill his after life , or whether it was to be spent alone , `` loveless , joyless , unendeared ; '' but when he met the friendly smile of Laura , and remembered that , his secret told , it might vanish like the gleaming of a wintry sun , his courage failed , and the intended disclosure was again delayed . 
Yet his manner grew less and less equivocal , and Laura , unwilling as she was to own the conviction to herself , could scarcely maintain her wilful blindness . 
She allowed the subject to occupy the more of her thoughts , because it came disguised in a veil of self-condemnation and humility . 
Sometimes she repeated to herself , that she should never have known the vanity of her own heart , had it not been visited by so absurd a suspicion ; and sometimes that she should never have been acquainted with its selfishness and obduracy , had she not borne with such indifference , the thoughts of what must bring pain and disappointment to so worthy a breast . 
But , spite of Laura 's efforts to be miserable , the subject cost her much more perplexity than distress ; and , in wondering whether De Courcy really were her lover , and what could be his motive for concealing it if he were , she often forgot to deplore the consequences of her charms . 
In vain did Laura protest that her indifference was unconquerable ; in vain assure him that though a total revolution in his character might regain her esteem , her affection was irrecoverably lost . 
She could at any time exasperate the proud spirit of Hargrave , till in transports of fury he would abjure her for ever ; but a few hours always brought the `` for ever '' to an end , and Hargrave back , to supplicate , to importune , and not unfrequently to threaten . 
From such a passion Laura shrunk with dread and horror . 
She heard its expressions as superstition listens to sounds of evil omen ; and saw his impassioned glances with the dread of one who meets the eye of the crouching tiger . 
His increasing jealousy of De Courcy , which testified itself in haughtiness , and even ferocity of behaviour towards him , and Montague 's determined though cool resistance of his insolence , kept her in continual alarm . 
Though she never on any other occasion voluntarily entered Hargrave 's presence , yet if De Courcy found him at Walbourne , she would hasten to join them , fearing the consequences of a private interview between two such hostile spirits ; and this apparent preference not only aggravated the jealousy of Hargrave , but roused Lady Pelham 's indefatigable spirit of remonstrance . 
She taxed Laura with a passion for De Courcy ; and in terms not eminently delicate , reproached her with facility in transferring her regards . 
Then assuming the tone of a tender monitress , and affecting to treat all Laura 's denials as the effect of maiden timidity , she would pretend to sympathize in her sufferings , advising her to use her native strength of mind to conquer this unfortunate partiality ; to transfer her affections from one to whom they appeared valueless to him who sued for them with such interesting perseverance . 
Above all , she entreated Laura to avoid the appearance of making advances to a man who probably never bestowed a thought on her in return ; thus intimating that her behaviour might bear so provoking a construction . 
Laura , sometimes irritated , oftener amused by these impertinences , could have endured them with tolerable patience ; but they were mere interludes to Lady Pelham 's indefatigable chidings on the subject of Hargrave , and Laura 's patience would have failed her , had she not been consoled by reflecting that the time now drew near when the payment of her annuity would enable her to escape from her unwearied persecutors . 
She heartily wished , however , that a change of system might make her residence with Lady Pelham endurable ; for strong as was her attachment to Mrs Douglas , it was no longer her only friendship ; and she could not without pain think of quitting , perhaps for ever , her valued friends at Norwood . 
Laura could not help wondering sometimes that her aunt , while she appeared so anxious to promote the success of Hargrave , should meditate a step which would place him at a distance from the object of his pursuit ; but Lady Pelham 's conduct was so generally inconsistent , that Laura was weary of trying to reconcile its contradictories . 
She endeavoured to hope that Lady Pelham , at last becoming sensible of the inefficacy of her efforts , was herself growing desirous to escape the Colonel 's importunity ; and she thought she could observe , that as the time of their departure approached , her Ladyship relaxed somewhat of her industry in teazing . 
She imagined that Laura 's obstinacy was occasioned , or at least strengthened by the influence of the De Courcys , and she expected that a more general acquaintance with the world would remove her prejudices . 
At Walbourne , Laura , if offended , could always take refuge with Mrs De Courcy . 
Meanwhile Laura , altogether unsuspicious of their designs , gladly prepared for her journey , considering it as a fortunate instance of the instability of Lady Pelham 's purposes . 
De Courcy still kept his secret ; and Laura 's suspicions rather diminished when she considered that , though he knew she was to go without any certainty of returning , he suffered numberless opportunities to pass without breathing a syllable of love . 
The day preceding that which was fixed for the journey arrived ; and Laura begged Lady Pelham 's permission to spend it entirely with Mrs De Courcy . 
Lady Pelham was rather unwilling to consent , for she remembered that her last excursion had been rendered abortive by a visit to Norwood ; but , flattering herself that her present scheme was secure from hazard of failure , she assumed an accommodating humour , and not only permitted Laura to go but allowed the carriage to convey her , stipulating that she should return it immediately , and walk home in the evening . 
She found the De Courcys alone , and passed the day less cheerfully than any she had ever spent at Norwood . 
This child , who was the toy of all his patron 's leisure hours , had , during her visits to Norwood , become particularly interesting to Laura . 
His quickness , his uncommon beauty , his engaging frankness , above all , the innocent fondness which he shewed for her , had really attached her to him , and he repaid her with all the affections of his little heart . 
He would quit his toys to hang upon her ; and , though at other times , as restless as any of his kind , was never weary of sitting quietly on her knee , clasping her snowy neck in his little sun-burnt arms . 
`` Kiss your hand Henry , and bid Miss Montreville farewell , '' said the old man as he was about to take him from Laura 's arms . 
`` It will be a long while before you see her again . '' 
said the child , looking sorrowfully in Laura 's face . 
`` Yes , far away , '' answered Laura . 
`` Then you ought to be Henry 's mammy , '' cried the child , sobbing , and locking his arms round Laura 's neck , `` for Henry loves you best . '' 
cried Laura kissing him with a smile that half-consented to his wish ; but , happening to turn her eye towards De Courcy , she saw him change colour , while , with an abruptness unlike his usual manner , he snatched the boy from her arms , and , regardless of his cries , dismissed him from the room . 
Grieved to part with her favourite , and puzzled to account for De Courcy 's behaviour , Laura was now the most silent of the trio . 
She saw nothing in the childish expression of fondness which should have moved De Courcy ; yet it had evidently stung him with sudden uneasiness . 
She now recollected that she had more than once inquired who were the parents of this child , and that the question had always been evaded . 
A motive of curiosity prompted her now to repeat her inquiry , and she addressed it to Mrs De Courcy . 
With a slight shade of embarrassment Mrs De Courcy answered , `` His mother was the only child of our old servant ; a pretty , meek-spirited , unfortunate girl ; and his father '' -- `` His father 's crimes , '' interrupted De Courcy , hastily , `` have brought their own punishment ; a punishment beyond mortal fortitude to bear ; '' -- and , catching up a book , he asked Laura whether she had seen it , endeavouring to divert her attention by pointing out some passages to her notice . 
Laura 's curiosity was increased by this appearance of concealment , but she had no means of gratifying it , and the subject vanished from her mind when she thought of bidding farewell to her beloved friends , perhaps for ever . 
When she was about to go , Mrs De Courcy affectionately embraced her . 
Weeping , and reluctant to part , Laura at last tore herself away . 
Hargrave had so often stolen upon her walks that the fear of meeting him was become habitual to her , and she wished to escape him by reaching home before her return could be expected . 
As she leant on De Courcy 's arm , ashamed of being unable to suppress her sensibility , she averted her head , and looked sadly back upon a dwelling endeared to her by many an innocent , many a rational pleasure . 
Absorbed in her regrets , Laura had proceeded a considerable way before she observed that she held a trembling arm ; and recollected that De Courcy had scarcely spoken since their walk began . 
Her tears suddenly ceased , while confused and disquieted , she quickened her pace . 
Soon recollecting herself , she stopped ; and thanking him for his escort , begged that he would go no further . 
`` I can not leave you yet , '' said De Courcy in a voice of restrained emotion , and again he led her onwards . 
Here Laura again endeavoured to prevail upon her companion to return , but without success . 
With more composure than before , he refused to leave her . 
He instantly stopped , and , clasping her hand between his , `` Must I then leave you , Laura , '' said he ; `` you whose presence has so long been the charm of my existence ! '' 
The blood rushed violently into Laura 's face , and as suddenly retired . 
Laura breathed painfully , and she pressed her hand upon her bosom to restrain its swelling . 
Laura felt that she was expected to reply , and , though trembling and breathless , made an effort to speak . 
`` This is what I feared , '' said she , `` and yet I wish you had been less explicit , for there is no human being whose friendship is so dear to me as yours ; and now I fear I ought '' -- The sob which had been struggling in her breast now choked her utterance , and she wept aloud . 
`` It is the will of heaven , '' said she , `` that I should be reft of every earthly friend . '' 
She covered her face and stood labouring to compose herself ; while , heart-struck with a disappointment which was not mitigated by all the gentleness with which it was conveyed , De Courcy was unable to break the silence . 
selfish that I am , '' exclaimed Laura suddenly dashing the tears from her eyes , `` thus to think only of my own loss , while I am giving pain to the worthiest of hearts . 
She , whom you honour with your love , '' continued she , the burning crimson glowing in her face and neck , `` has been the sport of a passion , strong as disgraceful -- disgraceful as its object is worthless . '' 
Her look , her voice , her manner conveyed to De Courcy the strongest idea of the torture which this confession cost her ; and no sufferings of his own could make him insensible to those of Laura . 
`` In doing so , '' answered Laura , `` I can claim no merit . 
`` Then why , dearest Laura , '' cried De Courcy , his heart again bounding with hope , `` why may not time and the fond assiduities of love '' -- `` Ah ! '' 
interrupted Laura , `` that is impossible . 
`` My heavenly Laura , '' cried De Courcy , eager joy beaming in his eyes , `` give me but this preference , and I would not exchange it for the fondest passion of all woman-kind . '' 
`` You deceive yourself , '' said Laura , mournfully , `` miserably deceive yourself . 
`` Endurance , Laura ! 
`` Believe me , my dear friend , '' said Laura , in a voice as sweet , as soothing , as ever conveyed the tenderest confession , `` believe me I am not insensible to the value of your regard . 
But Laura 's avowal was not quite so fatal to his hopes as she imagined ; and while she supposed that he was summoning fortitude to endure their final destruction , he stood silently pondering Mrs De Courcy 's oft repeated counsel to let love borrow the garb of friendship , nor suffer him undisguised to approach the heart where , having once been dethroned as an usurper , all was in arms against him . 
`` If I must indeed renounce every dearer hope , '' returned he , `` then in your friendship , my ever dear Miss Montreville , I must seek the happiness of my after-life , and surely '' -- `` Oh no , '' interrupted Laura , `` that must not be -- the part , the little part of your happiness which will depend upon earthly connections , you must find in that of some fortunate woman who has yet a heart to give . '' 
`` Can he who has known you , Laura , admired in you all that is noble , loved in you all that is enchanting , transfer his heart to some common-place being ? 
No , Laura , I can not , will not change . 
`` Indeed , Mr De Courcy , '' cried Laura , unconsciously pressing , in the energy of speech , the hand which held hers . 
-- Laura stopped , for she felt her voice grow tremulous . 
`` But we will not talk of this now , '' resumed she , `` I shall be absent for some months at least , and in that time you will bring yourself to think differently . 
`` No , Laura , '' answered De Courcy , `` this I can not promise . 
And promise me , dearest Laura , that when we meet , you will not receive me with suspicion or reserve , as if you feared that I should presume on your favour , or persecute you with solicitations . 
`` Ah , Mr De Courcy , '' cried Laura , tears filling her eyes , `` what thoughts but the kindest can I ever have of him who comforted my father 's sorrows , who relieved -- in a manner that made relief indeed a kindness -- relieved my father 's wants ? 
`` A thousand thanks , beloved Laura , '' cried De Courcy , kissing her hands , `` and thus I seal our compact . 
Silent and blushing , Laura stood for a few moments with her eyes fixed on the ground , then raising them , said , `` From you I fear no wrong construction of my words , and will frankly own to you that for my own sake , as well as your 's , I wish you had been known to me ere the serpent wound me in his poisoned folds . 
`` And was there a time when you could have loved me , Laura ? 
`` Your solitude , my honoured friend , '' replied Laura , `` needs it not ; it has better and nobler charms ; the charms of usefulness , of piety ; and long may those form your business and delight . 
Loath to part , De Courcy endeavoured to detain her while he again gave utterance to his strong affection ; and when she would be gone , bade her farewell in language so solemn , so tender , that all her self-command could not repress the tears which trickled down her cheeks . 
They parted ; he followed her to beg that she would think of him sometimes . 
Again she left him ; again he had some little boon to crave . 
She reached the gate , and looking back saw De Courcy standing motionless where she had last quitted him . 
She beckoned a farewell . 
The gate closed after her , and De Courcy felt as if one blank dreary waste had blotted the fair face of nature . 
The evening was closing , when Laura proceeded on her way . 
She had outstaid her purposed time , and from every bush by the path side she expected to see Hargrave steal upon her ; in every gust of the chill November wind she thought she heard his footstep . 
thought Laura . 
She reached home , however , without interruption , and was going to join Lady Pelham in the sitting-room ; when happening to pass a looking-glass , she observed that her eyes still bore traces of the tears she had been shedding , and , in dread of the merciless raillery of her aunt , she retired to her own room . 
An obsolete notion of decorum was for once favourable to a lover , and Laura saw the impropriety of writing to De Courcy . 
Besides , it occurred to her that she might withdraw into Scotland , without formally announcing the reason of her retreat ; and thus leave herself at liberty to receive De Courcy as a friend whenever discretion should warrant this indulgence . 
After the most magnanimous resolves however , feeling her mind as confused and comfortless as before , she determined to obtain the benefit of impartial counsel , and changed the destination of the paper on which she had already written `` My dear friend , '' from De Courcy to Mrs Douglas . 
With all her native candour and singleness of heart did Laura detail her case to the monitress of her youth . 
To reveal De Courcy 's name was contrary to her principles ; but she described his situation , his mode of life , and domestic habits . 
She enlarged upon his character , her obligations to him , and the regret which , for his sake , she felt , that particular circumstances rendered her incapable of such an attachment as was necessary to conjugal happiness . 
She mentioned her compliance with her lover 's request of a continuance of their former intimacy ; confessed her doubts of the propriety of her concession ; and entreated Mrs Douglas 's explicit opinion on the past , as well as her directions for the future . 
Her mind thus unburdened , she was less perplexed and uneasy ; and the next morning cheerfully commenced her journey , pleasing herself with the prospect of being released from the harassing attendance of Hargrave . 
On the evening of the second day the travellers reached Grosvenor Street ; and the unsuspecting Laura , with renewed sentiments of gratitude towards her aunt , revisited the dwelling which had received her when she could claim no other shelter . 
Her annuity having now become due , Laura , soon after her arrival in town , one day borrowed Lady Pelham 's chariot , that she might go to receive the money , and purchase some necessary additions to her wardrobe . 
She informed Laura , that Miss Julia , having lately read the life of a heroine who in the capacity of a governess captivated the heart of a great lord , had been seized with a desire to seek adventures under a similar character ; but finding that recommendations for experience were necessary to her admission into any family of rank , she had condescended to serve her apprenticeship in the tuition of the daughters of an eminent cowfeeder . 
After a visit of some length Laura wished to be gone , but her hostess would not suspend her eloquence long enough to suffer her to take leave . 
She was at last obliged to interrupt the harangue ; and breaking from her indefatigable entertainer , hurried home , not a little alarmed lest her stay should expose her on her return home to oratory of a different kind . 
She calculated the amount , and the balance of the annuity remaining in Laura 's possession . 
she exclaimed -- `` what in the world , Laura , will you do with so much money ? '' 
`` Perhaps five and thirty different things , '' answered Laura , smiling ; `` I have never had , nor ever shall have , half so much so money as I could spend . '' 
cried Lady Pelham patting her cheek . 
Laura was about to comply , when recollecting that there might be some awkwardness in asking her aunt for the money while she concealed its intended destination , she thanked Lady Pelham , but said she supposed it would be perfectly safe in her own custody ; and then , as usual , avoided impending altercation by hastening out of the room . 
She thought Lady Pelham looked displeased ; but as that was a necessary effect of the slightest contradiction , she saw it without violent concern ; and the next time they met , her Ladyship was again all smiles and courtesy . 
Some blanks remaining to be filled up in Lady Pelham 's town establishment , Laura took advantage of the present happy humour , for performing her promise to the kind-hearted Fanny , who was upon her recommendation received into the family . 
Lady Pelham could for the present refuse nothing to her dear Laura . 
`` What a pity , '' thought Laura , `` that my aunt 's spirits are so fluctuating ! 
In the midst of these brilliant hours , Lady Pelham one morning ran into the room where Laura was at work -- `` Here 's a poor fellow , '' said she , with a look and voice all compassion , `` who has sent me his account , and says he must go to jail if it is not paid instantly . 
cried Laura , shocked -- `` What is the amount ? '' 
`` Take mine , '' cried Laura , hastening to bring it . 
`` Oh no , '' said Laura , `` I can not want it , pray let me bring it . '' 
`` The poor man has a large family , '' said Lady Pelham , `` but indeed I am very unwilling to take -- '' Her Ladyship spared further regrets , for Laura was out of hearing . 
She returned in a moment with the whole of her wealth , out of which , Lady Pelham , after some further hesitation , was prevailed upon to take thirty pounds ; a robbery to which she averred that she would never have consented , but for the wretched situation of an innocent family , and her own certainty of repaying the debt in a day or two at farthest . 
Laura wondered a little that her aunt should forget a promise so lately and so voluntarily given ; but her attention was entirely diverted from the subject by the following letter from Mrs Douglas . 
You see , my dear Laura , I lose no time in answering your letter , though , for the first time , I answer you with some perplexity . 
I know not , my dear Laura , what ideas you may entertain of the fervency suitable to wedded love ; but had you been less peremptory , I should have thought it not unlikely to spring from a young woman 's ` most cordial esteem ' and ` warmest gratitude ' towards a young man with ` expressive black eyes , ' and ` the most benevolent smile in the world . ' 
I only wish , my dear Laura , that after this change takes place , the circumstances may remain in force which render you ` for ever incapable of repaying him with a love like his own . ' 
`` I own I could have wished , that the virtues of my ever dear Laura had found in the sacred characters of wife and mother a larger field than a state of celibacy can afford ; but I have no fear that your happiness or respectability should ever depend upon outward circumstances . 
Laura read this letter often , and pondered it deeply . 
Though she could not deny that it contained some truths , she was not satisfied with the doctrine deduced from them . 
She remembered that Mrs Douglas was the most affectionate of wives ; and concluded that in one solitary instance her judgment had been at variance with her practice ; and that , having herself made a marriage of love , she was not an adequate judge of the disadvantages attending a more dispassionate connection . 
Some passages too she could well have spared ; but as these were prophetic rather than monitory , they required little consideration ; and after the second reading , Laura generally omitted them in the perusal of her friend 's epistle . 
Upon the whole , however , it gave her pleasure . 
Her conscience was relieved by obtaining the sanction of Mrs Douglas to her promised intimacy with De Courcy , and already she looked forward to the time when it should be renewed . 
Since her arrival in town , her aunt , all kindness and complacency , had scarcely named Hargrave ; and , with the sanguine temper of youth , Laura hoped that she had at last exhausted the perseverance of her persecutors . 
This fruitful source of strife removed , she thought she could without much difficulty submit to the casual fits of caprice to which Lady Pelham was subject ; and , considering that her aunt , with all her faults , was still her most natural protector , and her house her most proper abode , she began to lay aside thoughts of removing immediately to Scotland , and to look towards Walbourne as her permanent home . 
Nay , the patriotic heart of Laura beat high with the hope of meeting some of those heroes who , undaunted by disaster , where all but honour is lost maintain the honour of Britain , or who , with happier fortune , guide the triumphant navies of our native land . 
She was yet to learn how little of character appears through the varnish of fashionable manners , and how little a hero or a statesman at a rout differs from a mere man of fashion in the same situation . 
But Laura , instructed in the value of time , and feeling herself accountable for its employment , stopped far short of the dissipation of her companions . 
She had long since established a criterion by which to judge of the innocence of her pleasures , accounting every amusement , from which she returned to her duties with an exhausted frame , languid spirits , or distracted attention , to be at best dangerous , and contrary to all rational ends of recreation . 
Of entertainments which she had never before witnessed , curiosity generally induced her for once to partake ; but she found few that could stand her test ; and to those which failed in the trial , she returned as seldom as possible . 
One species alone , if it deserves to be classed with entertainments , she was unwillingly obliged to except from her rule . 
From card-parties Laura always returned fatigued both in mind and body ; while present at them she had scarcely any other wish than to escape ; and she quitted them unfit for any thing but rest . 
Lady Pelham , however , sometimes made it a point that her niece should accompany her to these parties ; and , though she never asked Laura to play , was occasionally at pains to interest her in the game , by calling her to her side , appealing to her against ill-fortune , or exacting her congratulation in success . 
A few of these parties excepted , Laura 's time passed pleasantly . 
Though the calm of her aunt 's temper was now and then disturbed by short gusts of anger , it returned as lightly as it fled ; and the subject , fertile in endless chiding , seemed almost forgotten . 
A fortnight had passed in this sort of quiet , when one morning Lady Pelham proposed to carry Laura to see the Marquis of -- 's superb collection of pictures . 
Laura , obliged by her aunt 's attention to her prevailing taste , eagerly accepted the proposal , and hastened to equip herself for the excursion . 
Light of heart , she was returning to the drawing-room to wait till the carriage drew up , when , on entering , the first object she beheld was Colonel Hargrave , seated confidentially by the side of Lady Pelham . 
Laura , turning sick with vexation , shrunk back ; and , bewailing the departure of her short-lived quiet , returned , half-angry , half-sorrowful , to her own room . 
She had little time , however , to indulge her chagrin , for Lady Pelham almost immediately sent to let her know that the carriage waited . 
Disconcerted , and almost out of humour , Laura had tossed aside her bonnet , and was about to retract her consent to go , when , recollecting that the plan had been proposed on her account , without any apparent motive unless to oblige her , she thought her aunt would have just reason to complain of such an ungracious rejection of her civility . 
`` Besides , it is like a spoiled child , '' thought she , `` to quarrel with my amusement , because one disagreeable circumstance attends it ; '' and , readjusting her bonnet , she joined Lady Pelham , not without a secret hope that Hargrave might not be of the party . 
He was ready to hand her into the carriage , and to take his seat by her side . 
Her sanguine expectations thus put to flight , the habitual complacency of Laura 's countenance suffered a sudden eclipse . 
She answered almost peevishly to Hargrave 's inquiries for her health ; and so complete was her vexation , that it was long ere she observed how much his manner towards her was changed . 
He whispered no extravagancies in her ear ; offered her no officious attentions ; and seized no opportunities of addressing her , but such as were consistent with politeness and respect . 
He divided his assiduities not unequally between her and Lady Pelham ; and even without any apparent reluctance , permitted a genteel young man , to whom the ladies curtsied in passing , to share in his office of escort , and almost to monopolize Laura 's conversation . 
Having accompanied the ladies home , he left them immediately , refusing Lady Pelham 's invitation to dinner ; and Laura , no less pleased than surprised at this unexpected turn , wished him good morning more graciously , than she had of late spoken to him . 
The following evening Laura again met with him in a large party . 
He did not distinguish her particularly from any of her fair competitors . 
Laura was delighted . 
She was convinced that he had at last resolved to abandon his fruitless pursuit ; but what had so suddenly wrought this happy change , she could not divine . 
He did not visit Lady Pelham daily , yet it so happened that Laura saw him every day , and still he was consistent . 
Laura scarcely doubted , yet durst scarcely trust her good fortune . 
Laura did not fail to remark this ; but she possessed the happy faculty of explaining every ambiguity in human conduct , in a way favourable to the actor , -- a faculty which , though it sometimes exposed her to mistake and vexation , was , upon the whole , at once a happiness and a virtue . 
She concluded that Hargrave , determined to persecute her no further , was striving to overcome his passion ; that the appearances she had remarked were only the struggles which he could not wholly repress ; and she felt herself grateful to him for making the attempt , -- the more grateful from her idea of its difficulty . 
His new-found self-command was merely intended to throw Laura off her guard , that Lady Pelham might have an opportunity of executing a scheme which Lambert had contrived , to entangle Laura beyond the possibility of escape . 
It happened that Lambert , while at Walbourne , had once seen Laura engaged in a party at chess ; and her bent brow and flushed cheek , her palpitating bosom , her trembling hand , her eagerness for victory , above all , her pleasure in success restrained but not concealed , inspired him with an idea that play might be made subservient to the designs of his friend ; designs which he was the more disposed to promote , because , for the present , they occupied Hargrave to the exclusion of that folly of which Lambert had so well availed himself . 
It was Lambert 's proposal that he should himself engage Laura in play ; and having won from her , by means which he could always command , that he should transfer the debt to Hargrave . 
But though he could consent to degrade the woman whom he intended for his wife , he could not endure that any other than himself should be the instrument of her degradation ; and , sickening at the shackles which the love of gaming had imposed upon himself , he positively refused to accede to that part of the plan , which proposed to make Laura 's entanglement with him the branch of a habit previously formed . 
It was intended that Laura should at first be induced to play for a stake too small to alarm her , yet sufficiently great to make success desirable ; that she should at first be allowed to win ; that the stake should be increased until she should lose a sum which it might incommode her to part with ; and then that the stale cheat of gamblers , hope of retrieving her loss , should be pressed on her as a motive for venturing nearer to destruction . 
The chief obstacle to the execution of this honourable enterprize lay in the first step , the difficulty of persuading Laura to play for any sum which could be at all important to her . 
For obviating this , Lady Pelham trusted to the diffidence , the extreme timidity , the abhorrence of notoriety , which nature strengthened by education had made a leading feature in the character of Laura . 
Her Ladyship determined that the first essay should be made in a large company , in the presence of persons of rank , of fame , of talent , of every qualification which could augment the awe almost amounting to horror , with which Laura shrunk from the gaze of numbers . 
The piercing black eyes , the loud voice , the free manner , and good humoured assurance of this lady , had inspired Laura with a kind of dread , which had not yielded to the advances which the widow condescended to make . 
The appointed evening came , and Lady Pelham , though with the utmost kindness of manner , insisted upon Laura 's attendance . 
Laura would rather have been excused ; yet , not to interrupt a humour so harmonious , she consented to go . 
Laura strenuously resisted this addition to her attire , accounting it wholly unsuitable to her situation ; but her aunt would take no denial , and the affair was not worthy of a more serious refusal . 
Yet , with skilful malice , she contrived to awaken Laura 's natural bashfulness , by saying , as they were alighting at Mrs Clermont 's door , `` Now my dear do n't mortify me to-night by any of your Scotch gaucheries . 
`` Heaven forbid , '' thought Laura , and timidly followed her aunt to a couch where she took her seat . 
For a while Lady Pelham 's words seemed prophetic , and Laura could not raise her eyes without meeting the gaze of admiration or of scrutiny ; but the rooms began to be crowded by the great and the gay , and Laura was relieved from her vexatious distinction . 
Though Laura felt in her own majestic stature a very unenviable claim to notice , a claim rendered more conspicuous by the contrast offered in the figure of her companion , she could not with politeness refuse to accompany her aunt , and giving Lady Pelham her arm , they began their round . 
Laura , little acquainted with the case which prevails in town parties , could not help wondering at the nonchalance of Mrs Clermont , who , leaving her guests to entertain themselves as they chose , was lounging on a sofa playing piquet with Colonel Hargrave . 
`` Come Laura , picquet is the only civilized kind of game you play . 
This action naturally drew the eyes of all upon Laura , and Lady Pelham , who expected to find useful engines in her timidity and embarrassment , did not fail to make her remark the notice which she excited . 
From this notice Laura would have escaped , by seating herself near Mrs Clermont ; but Lady Pelham perceiving her intention , placed herself without ceremony , so as to occupy the only remaining seats , leaving Laura standing alone , shrinking at the consciousness of her conspicuous situation . 
No one was near her to whom she could address herself , and her only resource was bending down to overlook Mrs Clermont 's game . 
`` Excuse me , Madam , '' said Laura , drawing back , `` I play so ill . '' 
`` Nay , Laura , '' interrupted Lady Pelham , `` your teacher is concerned to maintain your skill , and I insist on it that you play admirably . '' 
`` Come , '' said Mrs Clermont , offering Laura the seat she had just quitted , `` I will take no excuse ; so sit down , and success attend you ! '' 
The seat presented Laura with an inviting opportunity of turning her back upon her inspectors , she was averse from refusing a trifling request , and rather willing to give Hargrave a proof that she was not insensible to the late improvement in his behaviour . 
While dividing the cards , Laura recollected having observed that , in town , every game seemed played for money ; and she asked her antagonist what was to be the stake . 
He of course referred that point to her own decision ; but Laura , in profound ignorance of the arcana of card-tables , blushed , hesitated , and looked at Lady Pelham and Mrs Clermont for instructions . 
`` Laura is only a beginner , '' said Lady Pelham , `` and perhaps half a guinea '' -- Laura interrupted her aunt by rising and deliberately collecting the cards , `` Colonel Hargrave will excuse me , '' said she . 
`` Do n't be absurd , my dear , '' said Lady Pelham , touching Laura 's sleeve , and affecting to whisper ; `` why should not you play as other people do ? '' 
Laura not thinking this a proper time to explain her conscientious scruples , merely answered , that she could not afford it ; and , more embarrassed than before , would have glided away , but neither of her guards would permit her to pass . 
`` That does not at all alter the case , '' returned Laura . 
`` Whatever stake Miss Montreville chooses must be equally agreeable to me , '' said Colonel Hargrave ; but Laura observed that the smile which accompanied these words had in it more of sarcasm than of complacency . 
`` I should be sorry , Sir , '' said she , `` that you lowered your play upon my account . 
Perhaps some of these young ladies , '' continued she , looking round to the talkative circle behind -- `` Be quiet , Laura , '' interrupted Lady Pelham , again in an under-tone ; `` you will make yourself the town-talk with your fooleries . '' 
`` I hope not , '' returned Laura , calmly ; `` but if I do , there is no help ; little inconveniencies must be submitted to for the sake of doing right . '' 
It would buy a week 's food for a poor family , thought Laura ; and she was confirmed in her resolution ; but not willing to expose this reason to ridicule , and a little displeased that Mrs Clermont should take the liberty of urging her , she coolly , yet modestly replied , `` That such matters must greatly depend on the opinions and circumstances of the parties concerned , of which they were themselves the best judges . '' 
`` Excuse me , Madam , for tonight , '' returned Laura , pleadingly . 
`` I am sure , '' said Hargrave , darting a very significant look towards Laura , `` if Miss Montreville , instead of cards , prefer allowing me to attend her in your absence , I shall gain infinitely by the exchange . '' 
Laura , to whom his glance made this hint very intelligible , reddened ; and , saying she would by no means interrupt his amusement , was again turning to seek a substitute among her tittering neighbours , when Mrs Clermont prevented her , by calling out to a lady at a considerable distance , `` My dear Duchess , do have the goodness to come hither , and talk to this whimsical beauty of ours . 
said her Grace , looking at Laura with a smile half-sly half-insinuating . 
The mere circumstance of rank could never discompose Laura ; and , rather taking encouragement from the charming though faded countenance of the speaker , she replied , `` But , in consideration of having no pretensions to lead the fashion , may I not claim exemption from following it ? '' 
`` Oh by no means , '' said her Grace . 
`` A gentle intimation , '' returned Laura , `` that in the world of fashion , I am quite out of place , since nothing but my own opinion is more awful to me than that of others . '' 
`` Pray , Madam , '' answered Laura , `` do not let me detain you a moment ; I shall easily dispose of myself . '' 
`` Take up your cards this instant , and let us have no more of these airs , '' said Lady Pelham , now without affectation whispering , in order to conceal from her elegant companions the wrath which was , however , distinctly written in her countenance . 
It now occurred to Laura as strange , that so much trouble should be taken to prevail upon her to play for more than she inclined . 
Mrs Clermont had interfered further than Laura thought either necessary or proper ; and Lady Pelham was eager to carry her point . 
Laura saw that there was something in all this which she did not comprehend ; and , looking up to seek an explanation in the faces of her companions , she perceived that the whole trio seemed waiting her decision with looks of various interest . 
said Laura , fixing on her aunt a look of calm scrutiny . 
Too much out of humour to be completely on her guard , Lady Pelham 's colour deepened several shades , while she answered , `` I child ! 
`` I do n't know , '' said Laura . 
Come , '' added she , beckoning to Laura , with a gracious smile , `` you shall sit by me , that I may endeavour to enlarge your conceptions on the subject of cardplaying . '' 
Laura , thus encouraged , instantly begged her aunt 's permission to pass . 
Lady Pelham could not decently refuse ; and , venting her rage , by pinching Laura 's arm till the blood came , and muttering , through her clenched teeth , `` obstinate wretch , '' she suffered her niece to escape . 
Laura did not condescend to bestow any notice upon this assault , but , pulling her glove over her wounded arm , took refuge beside the Duchess . 
Her ladyship restrained the further expression of her rage till Laura and she were on their way home ; when it burst out in reproaches of the parsimony , obstinacy , and perverseness which had appeared in her niece 's refusal to play . 
Laura listened to her in silence ; sensible , that while Lady Pelham 's passion overpowered the voice of her own reason , it was vain to expect that she should hear reason from another . 
Hargrave no sooner perceived the futility of his design to involve Laura in a debt of honour , than he laid aside the disguise which had been assumed to lull her vigilance , and which he had never worn without difficulty . 
He condescended , however , to save appearances , by taking advantage of the idea which Laura had herself suggested to Lady Pelham , and averred that he had made a powerful effort to recover his self-possession ; but he declared that , having totally failed in his endeavours to obtain his liberty , he was determined never to renew them , and would trust to time and accident for removing Laura 's prejudice . 
In vain did she assure him that no time could produce such a revolution in her sentiments as would at all avail him ; that though his eminent improvement in worth might secure her esteem , her affections were alienated beyond recal . 
Every meal , every visit , every public place , furnished occasions for his indefatigable assiduities , from which Laura found no refuge beyond the precincts of her own chamber . 
Regardless of the vexation which such a report might give her , he chose to make his suit a subject of the tittle-tattle of the day . 
The publicity of his claim would keep other pretenders at a distance ; it would oblige those who mentioned him to Laura to speak , if not favourably , at least with decent caution ; and it might possibly at last induce her to listen with less reluctance to what every one spoke of as natural and probable . 
Lady Pelham seconded his intentions , by hints of her niece 's engagement , and confidential complaints to her friends of the mauvaise honte which made Laura treat with such reserve the man to whom she had long been affianced . 
The consequence of their manoeuvring was , that Hargrave 's right to persecute Laura seemed universally acknowledged . 
The men , at his approach , left her free to his attendance ; the women entertained her with praises of his person , manners , and equipage ; with hints of her situation , too gentle to warrant direct contradiction ; or charges made with conviction too strong to yield any form of denial . 
Lady Pelham , too , resumed her unwearied remonstrances , and teased , chided , argued , upbraided , entreated , and scolded , through every tedious hour in which the absence of visitors left Laura at her mercy . 
Laura had at one time determined against submitting to such treatment , and had resolved , that , if it were renewed , she would seek a refuge far from her persecutors , and from England . 
But that resolution had been formed when there appeared no immediate necessity for putting it in practice ; and England contained somewhat to which Laura clung almost unconsciously . 
Amidst all her vexations , Mrs De Courcy 's letters soothed her ruffled spirits ; and more than once , when she had renewed her determination to quit Lady Pelham , a few lines from Norwood made her pause on its fulfilment , reminding her that a few months , however unpleasing , would soon steal away , and that her return to the country would at least bring some mitigation of her persecutions . 
Laura 's inquiries concerning him were answered with vague politeness ; and thus her interest in the state of his mind was constantly kept awake . 
Often did she repeat to herself , that she hoped he would soon learn to consider her merely as a friend ; and that which we have often repeated as truth , we in time believe to be true . 
Laura had been in town about a month , when one of her letters to Norwood was followed by a longer silence than usual . 
She wrote again , and still the answer was delayed . 
Fearing that illness prevented Mrs De Courcy from writing , Laura had endured some days of serious anxiety , when a letter was brought her , addressed in Montague 's hand . 
She hastily tore it open , and her heart fluttered between pleasure and apprehension , when she perceived that the whole letter was written by him . 
He apologized for the liberty he took , by saying , that a rheumatic affection having prevented his mother from using her pen , she had employed him as her secretary , fearing to alarm Laura by longer silence . 
Laura hesitated for a moment , whether her answer should be addressed to Mrs De Courcy or to Montague ; but Montague was her benefactor , their intimacy was sanctioned by her best friend , and it is not difficult to imagine how the question was decided . 
This correspondence , which soon formed one of Laura 's chief pleasures , she never affected to conceal from Lady Pelham . 
She imagined that , if not already an affair of love , it was likely soon to become so ; and she believed that , at all events , Laura 's intercourse with the De Courcys would foster those antiquated notions of morality to which Hargrave owed his ill success . 
Accordingly , she first objected to Laura 's new correspondence ; then lectured on its impropriety and imprudence ; and , lastly , took upon her peremptorily to prohibit its continuance . 
This was an exercise of authority so far beyond Laura 's expectations , that it awakened her resolution to submit no longer to the importunity and persecution which she had so long endured , but to depart immediately for Scotland . 
Willing , however , to execute her purpose with as little expence of peace as possible , she did not open her intentions at the moment of irritation . 
She waited a day of serenity to propose her departure . 
In order to procure the means of defraying the expence of her journey , it was become necessary to remind Lady Pelham of her loan , which appeared to have escaped her Ladyship 's recollection . 
Laura , accordingly , one day gently hinted a wish to be repaid . 
Lady Pelham at first looked surprised , and affected to have forgotten the whole transaction ; but , upon being very distinctly reminded of the particulars , she owned that she recollected something of it , and carelessly promised to settle it soon ; adding that she knew Laura had no use for the money . 
Laura then frankly announced the purpose to which she meant to apply it ; saying , that , as her aunt was now surrounded by more agreeable society , she hoped she might , without inconvenience , be spared , and would therefore relieve Lady Pelham of her charge , by paying a visit to Mrs Douglas . 
Not daunted by this inauspicious beginning , Laura , taking encouragement from her aunt 's known instability , again and again renewed the subject ; but Lady Pelham 's purposes , however easily shaken by accident or caprice , were ever inflexible to entreaty . 
Laura burnt with resentment at the injustice of this determination . 
She acknowledged no right which Lady Pelham possessed to detain her against her own consent , and she considered the detention of her lawful property as little else than fraud . 
On the contrary , the certainty that Laura could not withdraw from her power , encouraged her to use it with less restraint . 
She invited Hargrave to a degree of familiarity which he had not before assumed ; admitted him at all hours ; sanctioned any freedom which he dared to use with Laura ; and forced or inveigled her into frequent tte--ttes with him . 
Fretted beyond her patience , Laura 's temper more than once failed under this treatment , and she bitterly reproached Hargrave as the source of all her vexation . 
As it was , however , her habitual study to convert every event of her life to the purposes of virtue , it soon occurred to her , that , during these compulsory interviews , she might become the instrument of awakening her unworthy lover to more noble pursuits . 
Like a ray of light , the hope of usefulness darted into her soul , shedding a cheering beam on objects which before were dark and comfortless ; and , with all the enthusiastic warmth of her character , she entered on her voluntary task ; forgetting , in her eagerness to recal a sinner from the error of his ways , the weariness , disgust , and dread with which she listened to the ravings of selfish passion . 
She no longer endeavoured to avoid him , no longer listened to him with frozen silence or avowed disdain . 
During their interviews , she scarcely noticed his protestations , but employed every interval in urging him , with all the eloquence of dread , to retreat from the gulf which was yawning to receive him ; in assuring him , with all the solemnity of truth , that the waters of life would repay him a thousand-fold for the poisoned cup of pleasure . 
But when Laura rather incautiously urged him to give proof of his reformation , by renouncing a passion whose least gratifications were purchased at the expence of justice and humanity , he insisted that she required more than nature could endure , and vehemently protested that he would never , but with life , relinquish the hope of possessing her . 
Her remonstrances had however one effect , of which she was altogether unconscious . 
In this hope , he relinquished for a while the schemes which he had devised against the unsuspecting Laura , till accident again decided him against trusting to her free consent for the accomplishment of his wishes . 
Among other exercises of authority to which Lady Pelham was emboldened by her niece 's temporary dependence on her will , she adhered to her former prohibition of Laura 's correspondence with De Courcy . 
Laura , unwilling to make it appear a matter of importance , promised that she would desist ; but said that she must first write to Mr De Courcy to account for her seeming caprice . 
It spoke of Laura 's situation , of her sentiments , of her regret for Hargrave 's strange perseverance , of the dread and vexation to which he occasionally subjected her . 
To atone for its being the last , it was more friendly , more communicative than any she had formerly written . 
Laura meant to disguise under a sportive style the effects which oppression had produced upon her spirits ; and the playful melancholy which ran throughout , gave her expressions an air of artless tenderness . 
As he marked the innocent confiding frankness , the unconstrained respect , the chastened yet avowed regard , with which Laura addressed his rival , and contrasted them with the timid caution which , even during the reign of passion , had characterized her intercourse with himself , -- contrasting them too with the mixture of pity , dislike , and dread , which had succeeded her infatuation , all the pangs of rage and jealousy took hold on the soul of Hargrave . 
He entreated that her Ladyship would , by an opportune absence , assist his intention ; which was , he said , to alarm Laura with the horrors of a pretended arrest for an imaginary debt , and to work upon the gratefulness of her disposition , by himself appearing as her deliverer from her supposed difficulty . 
He had little expectation that Laura could ever he induced to receive any pecuniary obligation at his hands , and still less that she would consider a loan which she might almost immediately repay , as a favour important enough to be rewarded with herself . 
Though he durst not venture to unfold his whole plan to Lady Pelham , his real intention was merely to employ the disguise of law in removing Laura from even the imperfect protection of her aunt , to a place where she would be utterly without defence from his power . 
To the baseness of his purpose he blinded himself by considering the reparation which he should make in bestowing wealth and title on his victim ; its more than savage brutality he forgot in anticipation of the gratitude with which Laura , humbled in her own eyes , and in those of the world , would accept the assiduities which now she spurned . 
One morning at breakfast , Lady Pelham , with more than usual civility , apologized for leaving Laura alone during the rest of the day , saying that business called her a few miles out of town , but that she would return in the evening . 
She did not say whither she was going ; and Laura , never imagining that it could at all concern her to know , did not think of inquiring . 
Pleasing herself with the prospect of one day of peace and solitude , she saw her aunt depart , and then sat down to detail to the friend of her youth her situation , her wishes , and her intentions . 
She was interrupted by Fanny , who came to inform her that two men below desired to speak with her . 
Wondering who in that land of strangers could have business with her , Laura desired that they might be shewn up stairs . 
Laura was unable to divine what could have procured her a visit from persons of their appearance ; yet , with her native courtesy , she was motioning them to a seat , when one of them stepped forward ; and , laying on her shoulder a stick which he held , said , in a rough ferocious voice , `` Laura Montreville , I arrest you at the suit of John Dykes . '' 
Laura was surprised but not alarmed . 
`` This must be some mistake , '' said she , `` I know no such person as John Dykes . '' 
`` Friend , '' returned Laura , mildly , `` you mistake me for some other person . '' 
`` What , Miss , '' said the other man , advancing , `` do you pretend that you are not Laura Montreville , daughter of the late Captain William Montreville , of Glenalbert in Scotland ? '' 
Laura now changing colour , owned that she was the person so described . 
`` But , '' said she , recovering herself , `` I can not be arrested . 
exclaimed Laura . 
`` Surely , friend , '' said Laura , who now suspected the people to be mere swindlers , `` you can not expect that I should pay such a sum without inquiring into your right to demand it . 
`` I can not procure the money just now , even though I were willing , '' answered Laura , with spirit , `` and I do not believe you have any right to remove me . '' 
With the tautology which Laura had been taught to expect in a law-paper , it rung changes upon the permission to seize and confine the person of Laura Montreville , as heiress of William Montreville , debtor to John Dykes of Pimlico . 
Laura now no longer doubted ; and , turning pale and faint , asked the men whether they would not stay for an hour while she sent to beg the advice of Mr Derwent , Lady Pelham 's solicitor . 
cried Laura , almost sinking with horror . 
Spite of her dismay Laura 's presence of mind did not entirely forsake her . 
She hesitated whether she should not send to beg the assistance of some of Lady Pelham 's acquaintance , or at least their advice in a situation so new to her . 
Laura dashed the tears from her eyes , and , faintly trying to disengage her arm , was silently following her conductor to the door , when it opened and Hargrave entered . 
But quickly recollecting himself , he threw his arm familiarly round her , and said , `` My dearest Laura , what is the meaning of all this ? 
`` Nothing which can at all concern you , Sir , '' said Laura , her spirit returning at the boldness of his address . 
`` No great matter , Sir , '' answered the man ; `` only we have a writ against her for two hundred pounds , and she does not choose to pay it ; so we must take her to a little snug place , that 's all . '' 
You , Laura , to a prison ! 
`` There is no occasion , Sir , '' said Laura . 
Laura do you consider what you say ? 
Laura 's spirit revolted from the freedom with which this was spoken . 
Suffering undeserved humiliation , never had she been more jealous of her claim to respect . 
`` I am obliged to you , Sir , '' said she , `` but your good offices are unnecessary . 
Laura 's strong dislike to being indebted for any favour to Hargrave , was somewhat balanced in her mind by horror of a prison , and by the consideration that she could immediately repay him by the sale of part of her annuity . 
The hint which concluded this speech seemed to Laura manifestly intended to prevent her acceptance of the offer which he urged so warmly . 
`` Are you not ashamed , Sir , '' said she , with a disdainful smile , `` thus to make a parade of generosity which you do not mean to practise ? 
`` Upon my soul , Laura , '' cried Hargrave , seizing her hands , `` I am most earnest , most anxious , that you should yield to me in this affair ; nor will I quit this spot till you have consented -- nor till you have allowed me to look upon your consent as a pledge of your future favour . '' 
Laura indignantly snatched her hands from his grasp . 
`` All that I comprehend of this , '' said she , `` is insult , only insult . 
Laura , in silent scorn , turned from him , wondering what could be the motive of his strange conduct , till it suddenly occurred to her that the arrest might be a mere plot contrived by Hargrave himself for the purpose of terrifying her into the acceptance of the conditions necessary to her escape . 
The improbability of the debt ; the time chosen when Lady Pelham was absent ; the opportune arrival of Hargrave ; the submission of the pretended bailiffs to his order ; his frequent repetition of the conditions of his offer , at the same time that he appeared to wish for its acceptance ; all conspired to convince Laura that she was intended to be made the dupe of a despicable artifice . 
Glowing with indignation , she again forced herself from Hargrave . 
Laura 's blood ran cold at the thought . 
If they were indeed the agents of Hargrave , what was there of dreadful that she had not to fear ! 
Yet she could scarcely believe that persons could be found to attempt so daring a villany . 
cried Laura , `` that my aunt should be absent just when she might have saved me . 
Though Laura thus endeavoured to acquit Lady Pelham , her suspicion of Hargrave 's treachery augmented every moment . 
cried she , wringing her hands in an agony of grief and terror , `` must I submit to this cruel wrong ? 
After a moment 's consideration , Laura rang her bell , that she might dispatch a servant in quest of Mr Derwent ; resolving to resist every attempt to remove her before his arrival , or , if dragged by force from her place of refuge , to claim the assistance of passengers in the street . 
No person , however , answered her summons . 
She rang again and again . 
She perceived that the servants were purposely kept at a distance from her , and this served to confirm her suspicions of fraud . 
The windows of her chamber looked towards the gardens behind the house ; and she now regretted that she had not rather shut herself up in one of the front apartments , from whence she could have explained her situation to the passers by . 
Seeing no other chance of escape , she resolved on attempting to change her place of refuge , and was approaching the door to listen whether any one was near , when she was startled by the rough voice of one of the pretended bailiffs . 
Laura made no reply , but throwing herself on a seat , strove to rally the spirits she was so soon to need . 
Laura continued silent , while the ruffian called to her again and again , shaking the door violently . 
He threatened , with shocking oaths , that he would burst it open , and that she should be punished for resisting the officers of justice . 
Laura would not answer a single word . 
Trembling in every limb , she listened to his blasphemies and vows of vengeance , till she had wearied out her persecutor , and her ear was gladdened with the sound of his departing steps . 
He was almost immediately succeeded by his less ferocious companion , who more civilly begged her to hasten , as their business would not permit any longer delay . 
Finding that she would not answer , he reminded her of the consequences of obstructing the execution of law ; and threatened , if she continued obstinate , to use force . 
Laura sat silent and motionless , using every momentary interval of quiet , in breathing a hasty prayer for deliverance . 
The least violent of the fellows proved the most persevering ; yet at last she had the satisfaction to hear him also retire . 
Laura ! 
Laura was still silent . 
`` She is insensible . 
no , '' cried Laura , determined not to leave him this pretence , `` I am not insensible , nor ill , if you would leave me in peace . '' 
`` No , '' answered Laura , `` you can say nothing that I wish to hear . '' 
cried Laura , vehemently , `` why will you make me abhor you ? 
In the heat of his wrath , he commanded his coadjutors to force the door ; but the law which makes the home of an Englishman a sacred sanctuary , extends its precious influence , in some faint degree , to the breasts even of the dregs of mankind ; and these wretches , who would have given up Laura to any other outrage , hesitated to perpetrate this . 
Hargrave took two or three turns along the lobby , and then returned to Laura . 
Laura 's breast swelled with indignation at this vile pretence of kindness . 
`` Acting under your commands , Sir , '' said she , `` I doubt not that they may even dare this outrage . 
`` It is all the consequence of her own obstinacy , '' said he , suddenly stopping . 
Her cries would drive me mad -- Make haste -- lose no time after I am gone . 
Besides the motive which he owned , Hargrave was impelled to depart by the dread of meeting Laura 's upbraiding eye , and by the shame of appearing even to the servants , who were so soon to know his baseness , an inactive spectator of Laura 's distress . 
With dread and horror did Laura listen to their attempts . 
Pale , breathless , her hands clenched in terror , she fixed her strained eyes on the door , which every moment seemed yielding ; then flying to the window , surveyed in despair the height , which made escape an act of suicide ; then again turning to the door , tried with her feeble strength to aid its resistance . 
It yielded , and the shock threw Laura on the ground . 
The ruffians raised her , more dead than alive , and were seizing her lily arms to lead her away ; but , with all her native majesty , she motioned them from her . 
`` You need not touch me , '' said she , `` you see I can resist no further . '' 
With the composure of despair , she followed them to the hall , where , her strength failing , she sunk upon a seat . 
Some of the servants now in pity and amazement approaching her , she addressed herself to one of them . 
`` Will you go with me , my good friend , '' said she , `` that you may return and tell Lady Pelham where to find her niece 's corpse ! '' 
The girl consented with tears in her eyes ; but one of the fellows cried , `` No ; no ; she may run after the coach if she likes , but she do n't go within side . '' 
Laura shuddered . 
`` Where wandered my senses , '' said she , `` when I thought of subjecting any creature to the chance of a fate like mine ! 
The fellow went to do as he was desired ; while the other with a handkerchief prepared to stifle the cries of Laura , in case she should attempt to move the pity of passengers in the street . 
Laura heard the carriage stop , she heard the step let down , and the sound was like her death knell . 
The man hurried her through the hall . 
Laura raising her bowed down head , uttered a cry of joy . 
she cried , and sunk into the arms of Fanny . 
The faithful girl had witnessed the arrest of her young mistress , and with affectionate interest had lingered in the anti-room , till Laura 's request that she might be allowed to send for Mr Derwent had suggested to her what was most fit to be done , and the refusal of the pretended bailiff had warned her that it must be done quickly . 
She had then flown to Mr Derwent 's -- and , finding him just stepping into his carriage , easily persuaded him to order it to Grosvenor Street . 
Mr Derwent immediately directed his servants to seize the fellow who had held Laura , the other having made his escape upon seeing the arrival of her deliverers . 
Laura , soon recovering , told her tale to Mr Derwent , who ordering the man to be searched , examined the warrant , and declared it to be false . 
Hargrave 's villany thus fully detected , Laura wished to dismiss his agent ; but Mr Derwent would not permit such atrocity to go unpunished , and gave up the wretch to the arm of law . 
He then quitted Laura , leaving his servant to attend her till Lady Pelham 's return ; and worn out with the emotion she had undergone , she threw herself on a bed to seek some rest . 
The servants , always attentive and often uncharitable spectators of the actions of their superiors , had before observed the encouragement which their mistress gave to Hargrave , and less unwilling to suspect than Laura , were convinced of Lady Pelham 's connivance in his purpose . 
None of them therefore choosing to announce the failure of a scheme in which they believed her so deeply implicated , her questions produced no information except that Miss Montreville was gone indisposed to bed . 
The habitual awe with which the good sense and discernment of Laura had inspired Lady Pelham , was at present augmented almost to fear by the consciousness of duplicity . 
She shrunk from encountering the glance of quiet scrutiny , the plain direct question which left no room for prevarication , no choice between simple truth and absolute falsehood . 
But curiosity to know the success of the plot , and still more a desire to discover how far she was suspected of abetting it , prevailed over her fears ; and having before studied the part she was to play , she entered Laura 's apartment . 
She found her already risen , and prepared to receive her . 
`` My dear child , '' said her Ladyship in one of her kindest tones , `` I am told you have been ill . 
`` My illness is nothing , Madam , '' answered Laura , `` but I have been alarmed in your absence by the most daring , the most unprincipled outrage ! '' 
Laura then , commanding by a powerful effort the indignation which swelled her heart , related her injuries without comment ; pausing at times to observe how her aunt was affected by the recital . 
She was surprised at the lengths to which Hargrave had gone , and even suspected his whole design , though she was far from intending to discover her sentiments to her niece . 
cried she when Laura had ended . 
`` Colonel Hargrave , Madam , '' said Laura without hesitation . 
`` I doubt not , Madam , '' returned Laura , commanding her voice , though resentment flashed from her eyes , `` I doubt not that his intentions were yet more base and inhuman than the means he employed . 
`` No , Madam , '' answered Laura , `` I hope and believe you are incapable of consenting to such wickedness . 
Lady Pelham could implicitly rely upon Laura 's word ; and finding that she was herself unsuspected , she had leisure to attempt palliating the offence of her proteg . 
`` That countenance , '' returned she , `` shall be completely withdrawn for the future , if Hargrave does not explain this strange frolic entirely to my satisfaction . '' 
cried Laura indignantly . 
`` Come , my dear girl , '' said Lady Pelham , coaxingly throwing her arm round Laura , `` you are too much , and I must own , according to present appearances , too justly irritated , to talk of this affair coolly to-night . 
`` No , Madam , '' said Laura with spirit , for she saw through her aunt 's intention of glossing over Hargrave 's villany -- `` I will never again expose myself to the chance of meeting a wretch whose crimes are my abhorrence . 
`` Your Ladyship never saw me have such reason for anger , '' replied Laura . 
Had Laura 's purpose been more placidly announced it would have roused Lady Pelham to fury ; but even those who have least command over their tempers have generalship enough to perceive the advantage of the attack ; and the passion of a virago has commonly a patriarchal submission for its elder-born brother . 
Lady Pelham saw that Laura was in no humour for trifling ; she knew that her resolutions were not easily shaken ; and she quitted her niece upon pretence of fatigue , but in reality that she might consider how to divert her from the purpose which she had so peremptorily announced . 
Laura was every day becoming more necessary to her aunt , and to think of parting with her was seriously disagreeable . 
Besides , Laura 's departure would effectually blast the hopes of Hargrave ; and what would then become of all Lady Pelham 's prospects of borrowing consequence from the lovely young Countess of Liucourt ? 
Lady Pelham saw no better means of palliating these evils , than by dismissing her establishment and returning immediately to Walbourne ; and she hoped , at the same time , that it might not be impossible to prevail on Laura to change the direction of her journey . 
For this purpose she began by beseeching her niece to lay aside thoughts of retiring to Scotland ; and was beginning to recount all the disadvantages of such a proceeding ; but Laura would listen to no remonstrance on the subject ; declaring that , if after what had happened , she remained in a place where she was liable to such outrage , she should be herself accountable for whatever evil might be the consequence . 
Lady Pelham then proposed an immediate removal to Walbourne , artfully insinuating , that , if any cause of complaint should there arise , Laura would be near the advice and assistance of her friends at Norwood , and of Mrs Bolingbroke . 
Laura was not without some wishes that pointed towards Walbourne ; but she remembered the importunities which she had there endured , and she firmly resisted giving occasion to their renewal . 
`` Was it possible that Laura , the only hope and comfort of her age , would quit her now , when she had so endeared herself to the widowed heart , reft of all other treasure -- now when increasing infirmity required her aid -- now when the eye which was so soon to close , was fixed on her as on its last earthly treasure ! 
Would Laura thus cruelly punish her for a crime in which she had no share ; a crime which she was willing to resent to the utmost of her niece 's wishes ! '' 
Laura consented to accompany her aunt to Walbourne , provided that she should never be importuned on the subject of Hargrave , nor even obliged to see him . 
Of this visit Laura knew nothing ; for she adhered to her resolution of keeping her apartment , nor ever crossed its threshold , till , on the third day after her perilous adventure , the carriage was at the door which conveyed her to Walbourne . 
As Lady Pelham 's carriage passed the entrance of the avenue which led to Norwood , Laura sunk into a profound reverie ; in the course of which she settled most minutely the behaviour proper for her first meeting with De Courcy . 
She decided on the gesture of unembarrassed cordiality with which she was to accost him ; intending her manner to intimate that she accounted him a friend , and only a friend . 
The awkwardness of a private interview she meant to avoid by going to Norwood next day , at an hour which she knew that Montague employed in reading aloud to his mother . 
Laura was taking a very early ramble in what had always been her favourite walk , when , at a sudden turn , she saw De Courcy not three steps distant . 
Her white gown shining through the still leafless trees had caught his attention , the slightest glimpse of her form was sufficient for the eye of love , and he had advanced prepared to meet her ; while she , thus taken by surprise , stood before him conscious and blushing . 
At this confusion , so flattering to a lover , De Courcy 's heart gave one bound of triumphant joy ; but he was too modest to ascribe to love what timidity might so well account for , and he prudently avoided reminding Laura , even by a look , of either his hopes or his wishes . 
Quickly recollecting herself , Laura entered into a conversation which , though at first reserved and interrupted , returned by degrees to the confidential manner which De Courcy had formerly won from her under the character of her father 's friend . 
From the time of Laura 's return , he saw her almost daily . 
She made long visits to Mrs De Courcy ; he came often to Walbourne ; they met in their walks , in their visits ; they spent a week together under Mr Bolingbroke 's roof ; yet De Courcy religiously kept his promise , nor ever wilfully reminded Laura that he had a wish beyond her friendship . 
Always gentle , respectful , and attentive , he never invited observation by distinguishing her above others who had equal claims on his politeness . 
She only shared his assiduities with every other woman whom he approached ; nor did he betray uneasiness when she , in her turn , received attentions from others . 
His prudent self-command had the effect which he intended ; and Laura , in conversing with him , felt none of the reserve which may be supposed to attend intercourse with a rejected admirer . 
His caution even at times deceived her . 
She recollected Mrs Douglas 's prophecy , that ` his attachment would soon subside into friendly regard , ' and imagined she saw its accomplishment . 
`` How happy are men in having such flexible affections , '' thought she with a sigh . 
`` I wonder whether he has entirely conquered the passion which , three short months ago , was to ` last through life -- beyond life ? ' 
I hope he has , '' whispered she with a deeper sigh ; and she repeated it again -- `` I hope he has , '' -- as if by repeating it , she would have ascertained that it was her real sentiment . 
Yet , at other times , some little inadvertency , unheeded by less interested observers , would awaken a doubt of De Courcy 's self-conquest ; and in that doubt Laura unconsciously found pleasure . 
She often reconsidered the arguments which her friend had used to prove that passion is unnecessary to the happiness of wedded life . 
She did not allow that she was convinced by them ; but she half wished that she had had an opportunity of weighing them before she had decided her fate with regard to De Courcy . 
Meanwhile , much of her time was spent in his company , and his presence had ever brought pleasure with it . 
During all this time , Laura saw nothing of Hargrave . 
His visits , indeed , to Walbourne were more frequent than she supposed ; but the only one of which she had been informed , Lady Pelham affected to announce to her , advising her to avoid it by spending that day at Norwood . 
Since their return from town , her Ladyship had entirely desisted from her remonstrances in his favour , and Laura hoped that his last outrage had opened her aunt 's eyes to the deformity of his character . 
De Courcy 's attachment could not escape her penetration ; and as she was far from intending to desert the cause of Hargrave , she saw , with displeasure the progressive advancement of Laura 's regard for the friend of her father . 
Though she was sufficiently acquainted with Laura to know that chiding would effect no change in her sentiments or conduct , she had not temper enough to restrain her upbraidings on this subject , but varied them with all the skill and perseverance of a veteran in provocation . 
`` She did not , she must confess , understand the delicacy of ladies whose affections could be transferred from one man to another . 
She did not see how any modest woman could find two endurable men in the world . 
She wondered whether Laura was really wise enough to imagine that De Courcy could afford to marry her ; or whether , if he were mad enough to think of such a thing , she could be so ungenerous as to take advantage of his folly , to plunge him into irretrievable poverty ; and this too , when it was well known that a certain young heiress had prior claims upon him . '' 
Laura at first listened to these harangues with tolerable sang froid ; yet they became , she was unconscious why , every day more provoking . 
Though she had self-command enough to be silent , her changing colour announced Lady Pelham 's victory , and it was followed up without mercy or respite . 
It had , however , no other effect than that of imposing a little restraint when her Ladyship happened to be present ; for De Courcy continued his attentions , and Laura received him with increasing favour . 
Lady Pelham omitted none of the minor occasions of disturbing this harmonious intercourse , She interrupted their tte--ttes , beset them in their walks , watched their most insignificant looks , pried into their most common-place messages , and dexterously hinted to the one whatever foible she could see or imagine in the other . 
A casual breath of scandal soon furnished her with a golden opportunity of sowing dissention , and she lost no time in taking advantage of the hint . 
`` It is treating me like a baby , '' said she once to Laura , after opening in form her daily attack ; `` it is treating me like a mere simpleton to expect that you are to deceive me with your flourishing sentiments about esteem and gratitude . 
Laura kept silence ; for of late she had found that her temper could not stand a charge of this kind . 
Laura turned pale , then reddened violently , `` What protege ? 
cried she , quite thrown off her guard . 
cried Laura , making a powerful struggle with her indignation -- `` He seduce a girl who as a member of his family was doubly entitled to his protection ! 
`` I do not imagine , Madam , '' returned Laura , with recovered self-possession , `` that Mr De Courcy , or any of the human race , is perfectly sinless ; but nothing short of proof shall convince me that he is capable of deliberate wickedness ; or even that the casual transgressions of such a man can be so black in their nature , so heinous in their degree . 
`` It is wasting time , '' returned Laura calmly , `` to argue on the improbability of this malicious tale . 
`` Then , Madam , '' answered Laura coolly , `` I shall walk to Norwood . 
Having little time to consult the means of safety , since Laura was already leaving the room , she hastily said , `` I suppose in your explanations with Mrs Bolingbroke , you will give me up for your authority ? '' 
`` No , madam , '' replied Laura , with a scorn which she could not wholly suppress , `` your Ladyship has no right to think so at the moment when I am shewing such concern for the reputation of my friends . '' 
Lady Pelham would have fired at this disdain , but her quietus was at hand -- she was afraid of provoking Laura to expose her , and therefore she found it perfectly possible to keep her temper . 
`` If you are resolved to go , '' said she , `` you had better wait till I order the carriage ; I fear we shall have rain . '' 
Laura at first refused ; but lady Pelham pressed her , with so many kind concerns for a slight cold which she had , that though she saw through the veil , she suffered her Ladyship to wear it undisturbed . 
The carriage was ordered , and Laura hastened to Norwood . 
Though she entertained not the slightest doubt of De Courcy 's integrity , she was restless and anxious . 
It was easy to see that her mind was pre-occupied during the few minutes which passed before , taking leave of Mrs De Courcy , she begged Mrs Bolingbroke to speak with her apart . 
Harriet followed her into another room ; and Laura , with much more embarrassment than she had expected to feel , prepared to begin her interrogations . 
Harriet , from the thoughtful aspect of her companion , anticipating something of importance , stood gravely waiting to hear what she had to say ; while Laura was confused by the awkwardness of explaining her reason for the question she was about to ask . 
`` I have managed this matter very ill , '' said she at last , pursuing her thoughts aloud . 
what a tell-tale face you have , Laura ! 
`` It is of no consequence , '' replied Laura , `` that you should know my authority , provided that I have yours to contradict the slander . '' 
If you 'll believe me , Miss , '' continued she , turning to Laura , `` this is , begging your perdon , the wickedest lie that ever was told . '' 
Laura was about to assure her that she gave no credit to the calumny , but Harriet , who had a double reason for wishing that her friend should listen to Margaret 's tale , interrupted her , saying , `` Nurse , I am sure nothing could convince her so fully as hearing the whole story from your own lips . 
Sympathizing tears stood in Laura 's eyes ; while Harriet sobbed aloud at the remembrance of the play-fellow of her infancy . 
`` I shall never have done at this rate , '' said she , and , drying her eyes , turned to address the rest of her tale to Laura . 
Laura laid her arms kindly round old Margaret 's neck , for misfortune made the poor and the stranger her equal and her friend . 
She offered no words of unavailing consolation , but pitying tears trickled fast down her cheeks ; while Mrs Bolingbroke , her eyes flashing indignant fires , exclaimed , `` Surely the curse of heaven will pursue that wretch ! '' 
Margaret , unlocking a drawer , took out a letter and gave it to Laura , who read in it these words : `` My dear Jessy , I am the most miserable wretch upon earth . 
This letter was without signature ; but the hand-writing was familiar to Laura , and could not be mistaken . 
Shuddering at this new proof of his depravity , Laura inwardly offered a thanksgiving that she had escaped all connection with such a monster . 
`` You may trust my friend with the wretch 's name , '' said Harriet , anxious that Laura 's conviction should be complete . 
`` Fully , '' answered Laura , and returned to silent and thankful meditation . 
`` It is so , '' said Laura . 
Harriet continued to express the warmest detestation of the profligacy of Hargrave , while Laura 's mind was chiefly occupied in endeavouring to account for De Courcy 's desire to conceal from her the enormity which had just come to her knowledge . 
Unable to divine his reason , she applied to Harriet . 
`` Why my dear , '' said she , `` should your brother have silenced you on a subject which could only be mentioned to his honour ? '' 
`` I think , '' said Laura , `` that thus cautioned , I may contrive to keep my temper ; so speak boldly . '' 
cried Laura , and burst into tears . 
For the first time , Laura felt embarrassed and distressed by his presence . 
The words she had just uttered still sounded in her ear , and she trembled lest they had reached that of De Courcy . 
She was safe . 
Her exclamation was unheard by Montague , -- but he instantly observed her tears , and they banished from his mind every other idea than that of Laura in sorrow . 
Mrs Bolingbroke inwardly enjoying his abstraction and Laura 's embarrassment , determined not to spoil an opportunity which she judged so favourable to her brother 's suit . 
`` This close walk , '' said she with a sly smile , `` was never meant for a trio . 
Now I have letters to write , and if you two will excuse me '' -- De Courcy colouring crimson , had not presence of mind to make any reply , while Laura , though burning with shame and vexation , answered , with her habitual self-command , `` Oh pray my dear , use no ceremony . 
The emphasis which she laid upon the last word , wrung a heavy sigh from De Courcy ; who , while his sister was taking leave , was renewing his resolution not to disappoint the confidence of Laura . 
Laura was too conscious to talk of the story which she had just heard , and she was too full of it to enter easily upon any other subject . 
With her gratitude for the delicacy which De Courcy had observed towards her , was mingled a keen feeling of humiliation at the idea that he had discovered her secret before it had been confided to him ; for we can sometimes confess a weakness which we can not without extreme mortification see detected . 
Her silence and depression infected De Courcy ; and the few short constrained sentences which were spoken during their walk , formed a contrast to the general vivacity of their conversations . 
Laura however recovered her eloquence as soon as she found herself alone with Lady Pelham . 
With all the animation of sensibility , she related the story of the ill-fated Jessy ; and disclosing in confidence the name of her destroyer , drew , in the fulness of her heart , a comparison between the violator of laws human and divine , owing his life to the mercy of the wretch whom he had undone , and the kind adviser of inexperienced youth , the humane protector of forsaken infancy . 
`` Never name it , Madam , '' cried Laura warmly , `` if you would not banish me from your presence . 
`` All distinction between right and wrong , '' returned Laura , must first be blotted from my mind . 
Awed by the lightnings of Laura 's eye , Lady Pelham did not venture to carry the subject farther for the present . 
Finding herself , however , considerably embarrassed by a promise which she could not fulfil without hazarding the loss of Laura , she was not sorry that an opportunity occurred of evading the performance of her agreement . 
She therefore acquainted Hargrave with Laura 's recent discovery , declaring that she could not ask her niece to overlook entirely so great an irregularity . 
From a regard to the promise of secrecy which she had given to Laura , as well as in common prudence , Lady Pelham had resolved not to mention the De Courcy family as the fountain from which she had drawn her intelligence . 
From the moment when Hargrave first unjustly suspected Laura of a preference for De Courcy , his heart had rankled with an enmity which a sense of its ingratitude served only to aggravate . 
The cool disdain with which De Courcy treated him -- a strong suspicion of his attachment , -- above all , Laura 's avowed esteem and regard -- inflamed this enmity to the bitterest hatred . 
Hopeless as he was of succeeding in his designs by any fair or honourable means , he might have entertained thoughts of relinquishing his suit ; and of seeking , in a match of interest , the means of escape from his embarrassments ; but that Laura , with all her unequalled charms , should be the prize of De Courcy , that in her he should obtain all that beauty , affluence , and love could give , was a thought not to be endured . 
Lady Pelham , too , more skilled to practise on the passions of others than to command her own , was constantly exciting him , by hints of De Courcy 's progress in the favour of Laura ; while Lambert , weary of waiting for the tedious accomplishment of his own scheme , continually goaded him , with sly sarcasms on his failure in the arts of persuasion , and on his patience in submitting to be baffled in his wishes by a haughty girl . 
The news of this arrangement Hargrave immediately conveyed to Lady Pelham , urging her to sanction any means which could be devised for making Laura the companion of his voyage . 
It reached Laura , however , by means of one who was ever watchful for her gratification . 
De Courcy no sooner ascertained the truth of the report , than he hastened to convey it to Laura . 
He found her alone , and was welcomed with all her accustomed cordiality . 
`` Thank Heaven , '' cried Laura , `` I shall once more be in peace and safety ! '' 
But I believe , '' continued she , blushing very deeply , `` I need not explain to you any of my feelings towards Colonel Hargrave , since I find you have I know not what strange faculty of divining them . '' 
Assisted by a conversation which he had had with his sister , De Courcy easily understood Laura 's meaning . 
Respectfully taking her hand , `` Pardon me , '' said he , in a low voice , `` if I have ever ventured to guess what it w as your wish to conceal from me . '' 
`` Oh , believe me , '' cried Laura , with a countenance and manner of mingled candour and modesty , `` there is not a thought of my heart that I wish to conceal from you ; since from you , even my most humbling weaknesses are sure of meeting with delicacy and indulgence . 
But since you are so good an augur , '' added she , with an ingenuous smile , `` I trust you perceive that I shall need no more delicacy or indulgence upon the same score . '' 
The fascinating sweetness of her looks and voice , for the first time beguiled De Courcy of his promised caution . 
`` Dear , dear Laura , '' he cried , fondly pressing her hand to his breast , `` it is I who have need of indulgence , and I must -- I must sue for it . 
I must repeat to you that -- '' Laura 's heart sprung to her lips , and unconsciously snatching away her hand , she stood in breathless expectation of what was to follow . 
cried De Courcy , recalled to recollection by her gesture , -- `` whither am I venturing ! '' 
That was precisely what of all things Laura was most desirous to know ; and she remained with her eyes fixed on the ground , half dreading the confidence , half the timidity of her lover . 
A momentary glance at the speaking countenance of Laura , glowing with confusion , yet brightened with trembling pleasure , awakened the strongest hopes that ever had warmed De Courcy 's bosom . 
`` Beloved Laura , '' said he , again tenderly approaching her , `` remember I am but human . 
Cease to bewitch me with these smiles , which are so like all that I wish , or suffer me to -- '' Laura started , as her attention was drawn by some one passing close to the ground window near which they were standing . 
cried she , in a tone of vexation , `` there is my evil genius . 
Laura was not mistaken . 
She had scarcely spoken , ere , with a dark cloud on his brow , Hargrave entered . 
He bowed to Laura , who was advancing towards the door . 
Laura , without deigning even a single glance in reply , left the room . 
The dispute was proceeding with increasing warmth on both sides when it was interrupted by the appearance of Laura . 
From a window she had observed the gentlemen leave the house together ; had watched Hargrave 's angry gestures , and seen De Courcy accompany him into the by-path . 
Then taking Hargrave aside , he whispered that he would immediately return to him ; and , giving his arm to Laura , led her towards the house . 
She trembled violently , and big tears rolled down her colourless cheeks , as , vainly struggling with her emotion , she said , `` Surely you will not endanger a life so precious , so '' -- She was unable to proceed ; but , laying her hand on De Courcy 's arm , she raised her eyes to his face , with such a look of piteous appeal as reached his very soul . 
Somewhat tranquillized by his words , Laura walked silently by his side till they reached the house , when , in a cheerful tone , he bade her farewell . 
Laura could scarcely prevail on herself to part from him . 
said she , with a look of anxiety that spoke volumes . 
`` Securely , dearest Laura , '' answered he . 
`` He whom you trust needs no other motive for rectitude . '' 
He then hastened from her into the field , whither he had thrown Hargrave 's sword ; and having found it , sprung over into the lane where he had left its owner . 
There he exerted his utmost influence with Lady Pelham to procure an opportunity of excusing himself to Laura . 
Lady Pelham confessed that she could not venture to take the tone of command , lest she should drive Laura to seek shelter elsewhere ; but she promised to contrive an occasion for an interview which he might prolong at his pleasure , provided such a one could be found without her apparent interference . 
With this promise he was obliged for the present to content himself , for , during his stay , Laura did not appear . 
She passed the day in disquiet . 
She could not rest . 
She could not employ herself . 
She dreaded lest the interview of the morning should have been only preparatory to one of more serious consequence . 
She told herself a hundred times that she was sure of De Courcy 's principles ; and yet feared as if they had been unworthy of confidence . 
He had promised to see her in the evening , and she anxiously expected the performance of his promise . 
She knew that if he came while Lady Pelham was in the way , her Ladyship would be too vigilant a guard to let one confidential word be exchanged . 
Scarcely could the expression of tenderness have delighted the lover like this little ill-concerted affectation , the first and the last which he ever witnessed in Laura Montreville . 
`` Ah , dearest Laura , '' cried he , `` it is too late to retract -- You have said that my safety was dear to you ; owned that it was for me you feared this morning , and you shall not cancel you confession . '' 
Laura 's colour deepened to crimson , but she made no other reply . 
My long-loved , ever dear Laura , will you pardon me these hopes ? 
Laura spoke not even that little word . 
She even made a faint struggle to withdraw the hand which De Courcy pressed . 
Yet the lover read the expression of her half-averted face , and was satisfied . 
`` We were discussing a very important subject , Madam , '' answered Laura , mustering all her confidence . 
`` Certainly , Madam , '' replied Laura . 
Laura 's eyes filled with tears of mortification , yet she meekly answered , `` I am conscious that the degrading attachment of which I was once the sport merits your upbraidings ; and indeed they have not been its least punishment . '' 
She paused for a moment , and then added with an insinuating smile . 
`` Your Ladyship , '' answered Laura , with spirit , `` has good access to know that the love of wealth has little influence on my purposes ; and I assure you that Mr De Courcy would scorn upon any terms to appropriate what he considers as the unalienable right of your own child . 
This mention of her daughter exasperated Lady Pelham to fury . 
In a voice half-choked with passion , she cried , `` Neither that rebellious wretch nor any of her abettors or imitators shall ever have countenance or assistance from me . 
To this intemperate speech Laura made no reply , but quietly began to pour out the tea . 
To these , as no answer was absolutely necessary , none was returned , Laura did not utter a syllable till Lady Pelham 's wrath beginning to give place to her curiosity , she turned to her niece , saying , `` Pray , Miss Montreville , when and where is this same wise marriage of yours to take place ? '' 
`` The time is not quite fixed , Madam , '' answered Laura . 
The rudeness and ingratitude of this speech again forced the tears to Laura 's eyes ; but she mildly replied , `` Well , Madam , as soon as you find a substitute for me , I shall be ready to depart . '' 
Then to escape further insult she quitted the room . 
He loaded his rival with execrations , declaring that he would rather see Laura torn in pieces than know her to be the wife of De Courcy . 
Subdued , and crouching before his violence , she continued to give a terrified assent to every extravagance he uttered , till he announced his resolution of seeing Laura on the instant , that he might know whether she dared to confirm this odious tale . 
Lady Pelham then ventured to represent to him that Laura might be so much offended by this breach of contract , as to take refuge with Mrs De Courcy , a measure which would oppose a new obstacle to any scheme for breaking off the intended marriage . 
She assured him that she would grant every reasonable assistance in preventing a connection so injurious to her niece 's interest , though she knew Laura 's obstinacy of temper too well to hope any thing from direct resistance . 
She hinted that it would be most prudent to give the desired interview the appearance of accident , and she promised to contrive the occasion as soon as Hargrave was sufficiently calm to consider of improving it to the best advantage . 
After spending four-and-twenty hours in alternate fits of rage and despair , Hargrave returned to Lady Pelham , informing her , that whatever were the consequence , he would no longer delay seeing Laura . 
Laura 's favourite walk in the shrubbery led to a little summer-house , concealed in a thicket of acacias . 
Thither Lady Pelham had conveyed some dried plants , and had requested Laura 's assistance in classing them . 
Laura had readily agreed , and that very morning had been allotted for the task . 
Lady Pelham , having first directed Hargrave where to take his station , accompanied her unsuspecting niece to the summer-house , and there for a while joined in her employment . 
Soon , however , feigning a pretext for half an hour 's absence , she quitted Laura , intending at first to loiter in the shrubbery , as a kind of safe-guard against the ill consequences of her imprudent connivance ; but meeting with a gardener who was going to transplant a bed of favourite auriculas , she followed him to watch over their safety , leaving her niece to guard her own . 
Scarcely had Laura been a minute alone , ere she was startled by the entrance of Hargrave , and seriously alarmed by seeing him lock the door , and deliberately secure the key . 
`` I am told you are a bride , Laura , '' said he , speaking through his clenched teeth . 
`` I know no right , '' said Laura , recovering herself , `` that you have to question me -- nor meanly thus to steal -- '' `` No evasions ! '' 
said Laura , calmly . 
`` Spare your taunts , Laura . 
His threats , and the frightful violence with which they were uttered , filled Laura with mingled dread and pity . 
`` Command yourself , I beseech you , Colonel Hargrave , '' said she . 
And think not of resistance , Laura ; for , by all that I have suffered , resistance shall be vain . '' 
said Laura , making a trembling effort to release her arm , which he still fiercely grasped . 
`` Laura , '' said Hargrave , moved by the pleadings of a voice which would have touched a murderer 's heart , `` you have still a choice . 
said Laura . 
You shall be my wife , too , Laura -- but not till you have besought me -- sued at my feet for the title you have so often despised . 
cried Laura , raising her eyes in strong compunction , `` have I made this mine idol ! '' 
`` Oh , Laura , '' cried Hargrave , softened by the remembrance of her youthful affection , `` let but one faint spark of that love revive , and I will forget all your scorns , and feel again such gentle wishes as blest our first hours of tenderness . 
said Laura , her indignation rising as her alarm subsided . 
Laura would not irritate him further , and scorned to disguise the truth . 
`` Then , Laura , '' said he , and he confirmed the sentence with a dreadful oath , `` you have sealed your fate . 
Let this be the pledge of my triumph '' -- and he made a motion to clasp her rudely in his arms . 
With a cry of dread and horror , Laura sprung from him , and , throwing open the casement , called loudly for assistance . 
cried Laura , bursting into tears of mingled fear and indignation , while she struggled violently to disengage her hands . 
he exclaimed , approaching Hargrave , who , in his surprise , permitted Laura to escape . 
Her fears now taking a new direction , she flew to intercept De Courcy . 
she cried , `` my folly has done this . 
`` For Heaven 's sake , '' cried Laura , `` dear De Courcy , provoke him no farther . 
Let us fly this place ; '' and clinging to De Courcy 's arm , she drew him on ; while , with the other , he defended her from Hargrave , who had advanced to detain her . 
Laura uttered a cry of terror , clasping her lover 's arm more closely to her breast . 
Laura , in desperation rushed from the summer-house , calling wildly for help ; then struck with the fearful thought that Hargrave might now complete his bloody work , she hurried back . 
Not bearing to look upon his victim , he stood fixed and motionless ; while Laura , on her knees , watched , in dismay , the changing countenance of De Courcy , and strove to staunch the blood which was streaming from his wound . 
De Courcy once more tried to cheer Laura with words of comfort . 
Laura eagerly offered her assistance as he attempted to raise himself ; but the effort overpowered him , and he sunk back fainting . 
In the strong language of terror , Laura now besought Hargrave to precure help . 
Laura 's terror was not the passive cowardice of a feeble mind . 
She was left alone to judge , to act , for herself -- for more than herself . 
And she did decide by an effort of which no mind enfeebled by sloth or selfishness would have been capable . 
She saw that loss of blood was the cause of De Courcy 's immediate danger , a danger which might be irremediable before he could receive assistance from more skilful hands than her 's . 
Such remedy , then , as she could command she hastened to apply . 
To the plants which their beauty had recommended to Lady Pelham , Laura had added a few of which the usefulness was known to her . 
Agaric of the oak was of the number ; and she had often applied it where many a hand less fair would have shrunk from the task . 
Nor did she hesitate now . 
The ball had entered near the neck ; and the feminine , the delicate Laura herself disengaged the wound from its coverings ; the feeling , the tender Laura herself performed an office from which false sensibility would have recoiled in horror . 
She was thus employed when she was found by a woman whom Hargrave had met and sent to her assistance , with an indistinct message , from which Laura gathered that he was gone in search of a surgeon . 
The woman no sooner cast her eyes on the bloody form of De Courcy , and on the colourless face of Laura , more death-like than his , than , with noisy imbecility , she began to bewail and ejaculate . 
Laura , however , instantly put a stop to her exclamations by dispatching her for cordials and assistance . 
In a few minutes all the household was assembled round De Courcy ; yet such was the general curiosity , horror , or astonishment , that he would have remained unaided but for the firmness of her who was most interested in the scene . 
She dismissed every one whose presence was unnecessary , and silenced the rest by a peremptory command . 
She administered a cordial to recruit the failing strength of De Courcy ; and causing him to be raised to the posture which seemed the least painful , made her own trembling arms his support . 
Nothing further now remained to be done , and Laura began to feel the full horrors of her situation ; to weigh the fearful probability that all her cares were vain ; to upbraid herself as the cause of this dire tragedy . 
Her anguish was too great to find relief in tears . 
Pale and cold as marble , chilly drops bursting from her forehead , she sat in the stillness of him who waits the sentence of condemnation , save when a convulsive shudder expressed her suffering . 
For Heaven 's sake , Laura , tell me the meaning of all this . 
The expression of deep distress with which Laura now raised her eyes , reminded Lady Pelham of the sensibility requisite upon such an occasion , which her Ladyship 's curiosity had hitherto driven from her recollection . 
Approaching , therefore , to De Courcy , she took a hasty look of this dismal spectacle ; and exclaiming , `` Oh what a sight is here ! 
Unfortunate Laura ! 
she began first to sob , and then to scream violently . 
Laura motioned to the attendants to lead her away ; and she suffered them to do so without resistance ; but she had no sooner crossed the threshold , than , perceiving the spectators whom curiosity had collected in the shrubbery , she redoubled her shrieks , struggled , beat herself ; and , but for the untoward strength of her nerves , would have soon converted her pretended fit into reality . 
Wearied with her efforts , she was beginning to relax them , when the surgeon appeared , and her Ladyship was more vociferous than ever . 
Mr Raby , a quiet sensible man , undertook her cure before he proceeded to his more serious business ; and , either guided by his previous acquaintance with his patient , or by his experience in similar cases , gave a prescription which , though simple , was perfectly efficacious . 
He next turned his attention to De Courcy ; and judging it proper to extract the ball without delay , advised Laura to retire . 
Without opposition she prepared to obey ; and , seeing De Courcy about to speak , put her hand on his lips to save him the exertion , and herself the pain of a farewell . 
Yet , as she resigned her charge , raising her eyes to heaven , once more to commend De Courcy to the divine protection , the fervour of her supplication burst into words . 
-- she cried . 
Reproaching herself with having allowed De Courcy to perceive her alarm , she hastened away ; and seating herself on the steps that led to the door , awaited in silence the event of the operation . 
Here , as she sorrowfully called to mind the various excellencies of De Courcy , his piety , his integrity , his domestic virtues , so lately known , so soon to be lost to her , she suddenly recollected the heavier calamity of the mother deprived of such a son , and perceived the inhumanity of permitting the stroke to fall without preparation . 
Having access to no messenger more tender than a common servant , she determined , though with unspeakable reluctance , herself to bear the tidings to Mrs De Courcy . 
-- The awful interest which had supported the spirits of Laura thus suddenly withdrawn , the tide of various feeling overpowered them ; and she sunk into one of those long and deep faintings which were now unhappily become in some degree constitutional with her . 
Mr Raby having given directions for her recovery , placed De Courcy in Lady Pelham 's carriage , and himself attended him to Norwood ; where he mitigated Mrs De Courcy 's horror and distress by assurances of her son 's safety , which he again delighted Montague by ascribing to the cares of Laura . 
It was late in the evening before Laura was sufficiently collected to review with composure the events of the day . 
As soon , however , as she was capable of considering all the circumstances , a suspicion occurred that her unfortunate interview with Hargrave had been sanctioned , if not contrived by Lady Pelham . 
The affectionate Laura would not have parted from the meanest servant without a kindly farewell ; but her innate abhorrence of treachery steeled her heart , and she rejoiced that it was possible to escape all present intercourse with her deceitful kinswoman . 
As soon as the dawn appeared she arose ; and on her knees thankfully acknowledged the protecting care which had watched over her , since first as a destitute orphan she applied to Lady Pelham . 
And where is the wretch so miserable that he may not in the review of eighteen months find subjects of gratitude still more numerous ! 
Laura began no important action of her life without imploring a blessing on the event ; and she now proceeded to commend herself and her future prospects to the same care of which she had glad experience . 
The proper business of the morning ended , she had begun to make arrangements for her immediate departure ; when she heard Lady Pelham 's bell ring , and the next instant a noise like that occasioned by the fall of something heavy . 
The rest of the family were yet buried in sleep , and Laura hearing no one stirring to answer Lady Pelham 's summons , began to fear that her aunt was ill , perhaps unable to make any further effort to procure assistance . 
Laura soon procuring help , raised her from the ground ; and guessing that apoplexy was her disorder , placed her in an upright posture , loosened her night-clothes , and having hurried away a servant for Mr Raby , ventured , until his arrival , upon such simple remedies as she knew might be safely administered . 
In little more than an hour the surgeon arrived ; and having examined his patient , declared her to be in extreme danger . 
Before he left her , however , he succeeded in restoring her to some degree of recollection ; yet , far from changing his first opinion , he advised Laura to lose no time in making every necessary use of an amendment which he feared would be only transient . 
Laura now rejoiced that she had not executed her purpose of leaving Walbourne ; since , had her aunt 's illness succeeded to the rage which her departure would have excited , she could never have ceased to blame herself as the cause . 
She looked with profound compassion , too , upon the condition of an unfortunate being , whose death-bed was neither smoothed by affection , nor cheered by pious hope . 
thought she , as she sat watching an unquiet slumber into which her aunt had fallen , `` to whom the best gifts of nature and of fortune have , by some fatality been useless , or worse than useless ; whose affluence has purchased no higher joys than half-grudged luxuries ; whose abilities have dazzled others and bewildered herself , but lent no steady light to guide her way ; whose generosity has called forth no gratitude , whose kindness has awakened no affection ; to whom length of days has brought no reverence , and length of intimacy no friends ! 
She shewed little apprehension of her own danger ; and Laura debated with herself whether she should permit her aunt to dream away the last precious hours of probation , or endeavour to awaken her to a sense of her condition . 
Laura had no faith in death-bed repentance . 
She knew that resolutions of amendment which there is no longer time to practise , and renunciations of sin made under the immediate prospect of punishment , are at best suspicious . 
She knew that , in the ordinary course of Providence , the grace which has been long despised is at length justly withdrawn . 
Yet she saw that she had no right to judge Lady Pelham as wholly impenitent ; and she considered a death-bed as highly suitable to the renewal , though not to the beginning of repentance . 
At last , recovering her spirits , she said , `` Your nerves , Laura , were always so coarse , that you seemed to me to take a pleasure in thinking of shocking things ; but I am sure it is abominably barbarous in you to tease me with them now I am ill . 
Laura , however , was not to be so discouraged . 
She took occasion to represent that no harm could ensue from preparing to meet the foe ; since his march was not to be retarded by shutting our eyes on his advances , nor hastened by the daring which watched his approach . 
She at length thought she had succeeded in convincing her aunt of her danger . 
Laura , however , made use of her acknowledgment to press upon her the duties of forgiveness and charity towards all mankind , and especially towards her child ; reminding her of the affecting parity of situation between offending man and his disobedient offspring . 
`` God knows , '' said she to Laura , one day , `` we have all much need to be forgiven ; and therefore we must forgive in our turn . 
Laura often begged permission to send for Mrs Herbert ; but Lady Pelham sometimes postponed it till she should get better , sometimes till she should grow wrose . 
Laura was in the meantime her constant attendant ; bearing with her peevishness , soothing her caprice , and striving to rouse in her feelings suitable to her condition . 
Finding , however , that she made but little progress in her pious work , she begged that she might be allowed to take the assistance of a clergyman . 
`` It would indeed be superstition , '' answered Laura , `` to expect that the prayers of any mortal should be useful to you any further than as they speak the language of your own heart ; but , as our divine Master has chosen some of his servants as guides to the rest , we may hope that he will grant a peculiar blessing on their labours . 
`` Oh , Madam , '' said Laura , `` be assured that our Maker gives us no unconquerable passions . 
Driven from the strong-hold of justice , rather by the increase of her bodily languor , than by the force of truth , the dying sinner had recourse to mercy , -- a mercy , however , of her own composing . 
`` It is true , '' said she one day to Laura , `` that I have done some things which I have reason to regret , and which , I must confess , deserve punishment . 
Laura , shuddering at this awful blindness , was offering an inward prayer for aid to frame a useful reply , when she saw her aunt 's countenance change . 
Laura was more shocked than afflicted by the death of a person whom she was unable to love , and had no reason to respect . 
She lost no time in conveying the news to Mrs Herbert , begging that she would herself come and give the necessary directions . 
De Courcy continued to recover fast ; and Laura , thinking she might soon leave him without anxiety , again fixed an early day for her journey to Scotland . 
Notwithstanding Laura 's knowledge of the phlegmatic temperament of her cousin , she was surprised at the stoicism with which Mrs Her bert supported the death of her mother . 
Her whole property she bequeathed to Laura Montreville , and to her second son upon taking the name of Pelham , provided that Laura married Colonel Hargrave , or a peer , or the eldest son of a peer ; but if she married a commoner , or remained unmarried , she was to inherit only ten thousand pounds , the bulk of the property going to a distant relation . 
The very hour that this will was made public , Laura informed the contingent heir that he might possess himself of his inheritance , since she would certainly never perform the conditions which alone could destroy his claim . 
`` We shall have enough for humble comfort , dear Laura '' said he , `` and have no need to grasp at a doubtful claim . '' 
Laura , however , differed from him in opinion . 
She thought she might , in strict justice , retain part of the bequest of so near a relation ; and she felt pleased to think that she should enter the De Courcy family not altogether portionless . 
She therefore reserved two thousand pounds , giving up the rest unconditionally to Mrs Herbert . 
These points being settled , nothing now remained to retard Laura 's journey to Scotland . 
Mrs De Courcy , indeed , urged her to postpone it till Montague should acquire a right to be her escort ; but Laura objected that it was her wish to give a longer time to her old friend than she thought it proper to withdraw De Courcy from his business and his home . 
She reflected , too , with a light heart , that a protector in her journey was now less necessary , since her mad lover , as Harriet called Colonel Hargrave , had embarked for America . 
Laura had heard of his departure immediately after her aunt 's death ! 
and she gladly observed that favourable winds were speeding him across the Atlantic . 
The day preceding that on which she meant to leave Walbourne , she spent with Mrs De Courcy and Montague ; who , though not entirely recovered , was able to resume his station in the family-room . 
De Courcy , with the enthusiasm of youth and love , spoke of his happy prospects ; his mother , with the sober eye of experience , looked forward to joys as substantial , though less dazzling ; while feminine modesty suppressed the pleasure with which Laura felt that she was necessary to these schemes of bliss . 
Laura consented that one month , ` one little month , ' should begin the accomplishment of these golden dreams ; for she permitted De Courcy to follow her at the end of that time to Scotland . 
A few weeks they were to spend in wandering through the romantic scenes of her native land ; and then join Mrs De Courcy at Norwood , which was to continue her permanent abode . 
Laura remained with her friends till the evening was closing ; then , avoiding the solemnity of a farewell by a half-promise of stopping as she passed the next day , she sprung into Mrs De Courcy 's carriage , and drove off . 
`` She will soon return to bring gladness to every heart , and double joy to mine . 
To-morrow too I shall see her , '' thought he ; yet he continued depressed , and soon retired to his chamber . 
Mrs De Courcy and her son met early the next morning , expecting that Laura would early begin her journey . 
Montague stationed himself at the window to watch for her appearance ; half-fearing that she would not keep her promise , yet every minute repeating that it was impossible she could go without bidding farewell . 
The breakfast hour arrived , and still Laura came not . 
The carriage has waited for her these three hours ? '' 
`` No , Madam , she has not been there since yesterday morning . '' 
He answered , that , by Laura 's desire , he had set her down at the gate of Walbourne ; that he had seen her enter ; and afterwards , in turning the carriage , had observed her walking along the avenue towards the house . 
As soon as she could recollect herself , she dispatched old Wilson , on whose discretion she thought she might rely , to inform De Courcy that a message from Walbourne had made her cease to expect Laura 's visit . 
`` Did she not even write one line ? '' 
`` Could you have believed that she would go without one farewell -- that she could pass our very gate ! '' 
`` She was willing to spare you the pain of a farewell , '' said Mrs De Courcy , checking the anguish of her heart . 
`` She will write soon , I hope . '' 
But day after day passed , and Laura did not write . 
Her suspicions at first falling upon Hargrave , she caused particular inquiry to be made whether any of his domestics had been left in England with orders to follow him ; but she found that he with his whole suite had sailed from Europe more than a fortnight before Laura 's disappearance . 
She employed emissaries to prosecute the search in almost every part of the kingdom . 
Judging the metropolis to be the most likely place of concealment , she made application to the officers of police for assistance in her inquiries there . 
No trace of Laura was to be found . 
For a while De Courcy amused himself from day to day with the hope of hearing from her ; a hope which his mother had not the courage to destroy . 
He calculated that she would reach the end of her journey on the sixth day after that on which she left him . 
On the seventh she would certainly write ; therefore in four or five more he should undoubtedly hear from her . 
The expected day came and passed as others had done , without bringing news of Laura . 
He knew not how to account for a silence so adverse to the considerate kindness of Laura 's character , except by supposing that illness made her unable to write . 
This idea gathering strength in his mind , he resolved to follow her immediately to Scotland , tracing her through the route which he knew she intended to take . 
While De Courcy was thus languishing on a sick-bed or wandering restless and miserable , Laura too was a wanderer , a prey to care more deep , more hopeless . 
Laura 's beauty regained its fascination , and Hargrave first shrunk from the thought of its being appropriated by another , then renewed his wishes that it were his own , then his determination that it should be so . 
The threats with which he had terrified Laura were not the mere ravings of frenzy . 
Aided by the more relentless though not more unprincipled Lambert , he had actually formed a scheme for withdrawing her from the protection of her friends , and to this scheme , forgotten or detested in the hour of compunction , he again turned an approving eye as pity and remorse subsided with De Courcy 's danger . 
The ill fortune , however , which had attended all Hargrave 's designs against Laura once more pursued him . 
De Courcy , no longer in danger , was again the detested rival ; Laura , on the point of being lost , was again irresistible ; and Hargrave , enraged at being thwarted in his designs , would , in defiance of all authority , have remained in England to pursue them , had he not been dissuaded from this temerity by Lambert , who , knowing how much his own interest was involved in the question , used all his influence to prevent his friend from disobliging Lord Lincourt . 
He insisted that Hargrave 's presence was not necessary to the seizure of Laura 's person , and that his departure would rather serve to avert any suspicion of his being concerned in her disappearance . 
In this success he had now an additional interest ; for he had been informed of Lady Pelham 's danger , and foresaw that her approaching death would put Laura in possession of a fortune from which he hoped to be speedily reimbursed for the sums which he had advanced to Hargrave . 
In hopes of finding the wished-for opportunity , he procured intelligence of all Laura 's motions . 
He did not choose to hazard rescue or discovery , by seizing her in open day ; and he was concerting the means of decoying her abroad alone at a late hour , when he was relieved from his difficulty by her parting visit to the De Courcys . 
The soft shades of twilight were stealing on as she cast a last look back towards Norwood ; and were deepening fast as with a sigh , half-pleasing , half-melancholy , she surveyed the sheltering chesnut tree where she had once parted from De Courcy . 
As she approached her home , the stars coming forth poured their silent language into the ear of piety . 
Never deaf to this holy call , Laura dismissed her attendants that she might meditate alone . 
She proceeded slowly along till she came to the entrance of a woody lane , which branched off from the avenue . 
She stopped , half-inclined to enter ; a sensation of fear made her pause . 
The next moment the very consciousness of that sensation induced her to proceed , `` This is mere childish superstition , '' said she , and entered the lane . 
She had taken only a few steps when she felt herself suddenly seized from behind ; one person forcibly confining her arms , while another prevented her cries . 
Vainly struggling against masculine strength , she was hurried rapidly forward , till , her breath failing , she could resist no farther . 
Her conductors , soon quitting the beaten path , dragged her on through a little wood that sheltered the lawn towards the east ; till reaching a gap which appeared to have been purposely made in the park wall , Laura perceived a carriage in waiting . 
Again exerting the strength of desperation , she struggled wildly for freedom ; but the unequal contest soon was closed ; she was lifted into the carriage ; one of the men took his place by her side , and they drove off with the speed of lightning . 
From the moment when she recovered recollection , Laura had not a doubt that she owed this outrage to Hargrave . 
She was convinced that his pretence of leaving the kingdom had been merely intended to throw her off her guard , and that he was now waiting , at no distant place , the success of his daring villany . 
Her attendant perceiving that she no longer struggled , with a coarse expression of pity , released her from his grasp ; and , taking the handkerchief from her mouth , told her `` she might cry as long as she pleased , for he knew it did a woman 's heart good to cry . '' 
Laura now besought him to tell her whither she was going . 
`` You 'll know that by and by , '' said he . 
The bare mention of his purpose revived Laura 's hopes . 
`` Surely , '' thought she , `` while he sleeps , I may escape . 
Full of this project , she remained still as the dead ; fearing by the slightest sound or motion to retard the sleep of her guard . 
At last his breathing announced that he was asleep ; and Laura began , with trembling hands , to attempt her escape . 
The blinds were drawn up ; and if she could let down that on the side of the carriage where she sat , she might without difficulty open the door . 
She tried to stir the blind . 
She used her utmost force , but it remained firm . 
She ventured , cautious and trembling , to attempt that on the other side . 
It dropt ; and Laura thought she was free . 
She tried it ; but the door was immoveable , and , in despair , she shrunk back . 
Again she started up ; for it occurred to her that , though with more danger , she might escape by the window . 
Cautiously stepping across her guard , she leant out and placed her hands on the top of the carriage , that , trusting to her arms for supporting her weight , she might extricate herself , and drop from thence into the road . 
Raising herself upon the edge of the step , she fixed her hands more firmly . 
She paused a moment to listen whether her guard were undisturbed . 
He still slept soundly ; and resting her limbs upon the window frame , she prepared to complete her escape . 
A moment more and she had been free ; when a horseman riding up , pushed her fiercely back , upbraiding , with tremendous oaths , the carelessness of his companion . 
The fellow , rousing himself , retorted upon the wretched Laura the abuse of his comrade , swearing that `` since he saw she was so cunning , he would keep better watch upon her for the future . '' 
The desponding Laura endured his reproaches in silence . 
Finding herself thus doubly guarded , she resigned all hope of escaping by her own unaided exertions ; and mingling silent prayers with her fearful anticipations , she strove to re-animate her trust that she should not be wholly forsaken . 
Sometimes her habitual confidence prevailed , and she felt assured , that she should not be left a prey to the wicked . 
`` Will he dare his own death too ? '' 
in mercy spare me the necessity of sending a wretch to his great account , with all his crimes unrepented on his head -- or pardon him and me ? '' 
Morning at length began to dawn , but the blinds being closely drawn up , Laura could make no observations on the country through which she was passing . 
She remarked that the furious speed with which she had at first been driven , had slackened to a slow pace ; and she judged that the wearied cattle could not proceed much further . 
She hoped that it would soon be necessary to stop ; and that during the few minutes in which they halted to change horses , she might find means of appealing to the justice of her fellow-creatures . 
`` Surely , '' said she , `` some heart will be open to me . '' 
Laura listened for the sounds of human voices , but all was silent . 
She heard the trampling of horses as if led close by the carriage . 
Oh help me , '' cried Laura . 
The carriage again proceeded with the same speed as at first , and Laura strove to support with composure this new blow to her hopes . 
Her companion , now producing a bottle of wine and some biscuits , advised her to share with him ; and that she might not wilfully lavish her strength and spirits , she consented . 
Once more in the course of the day the travellers stopped to change horses , and Laura once more , though with feebler hopes , renewed her appeals to justice and to pity . 
No answer greeted her ear . 
Again she was hurried on her melancholy way . 
The evening was drawing on when Laura remarked that the motion was changed . 
The chaise proceeded slowly over soft uneven ground , and she guessed with dismay , that it had quitted all frequented paths . 
In renewed alarm , she again besought her companion to tell her whither he meant to conduct her , and for what end she was thus cruelly forced from her home . 
About an hour after quitting the road , the carriage stopped ; and the man letting down the blind , Laura perceived through the dusk , that they were on a barren moor . 
Waste and level , it seemed spread before her ; but the darkness prevented her from distinguishing its features or its boundaries . 
Suddenly , as the gust died away she fancied she heard the roar of waters . 
She listened ; but the wind swelled again , and she heard only its howlings over the heath . 
The roar of waters again burst on Laura 's ear , now swelling loud , now sinking in a sullen murmur . 
She saw a light glimmer at a distance . 
The door of the chaise was opened , and she was lifted from it . 
Gliding from the arms of the ruffian who held her , and clasping his knees , `` Oh ! 
if you have the heart of a man , '' she cried , `` let me not be torn from my native land -- let me not be cast on the merciless deep . 
The other fellow now approaching lifted Laura , more dead than alive , from the ground , and , wrapping her in a large cloak , bore her towards the beach . 
As the party approached , he rose , and pushing the boat ashore , received the half-lifeless Laura in his brawny arms , cursing her with strange oaths for having made him wait so long . 
Then , on his uttering a discordant yell , two of his companions appeared ; and after exchanging with Laura 's guards a murmuring account of the trouble they had undergone , pushed off from the land . 
The keel grated along the pebbles ; the next moment it floated on the waves , and Laura starting up , threw back the cloak from her face , and with strained eyes gazed on her parting native land , till all behind was darkness . 
A pang of anguish striking to her heart , she made once more a desperate effort to awaken pity . 
Stretching her clasped hands towards the man who sat near her , she cried , in the piercing voice of misery , `` Oh take pity on me ! 
The person to whom she spoke having eyed her a moment in silence , coolly drew in his oar ; and rising , wrapped her close in the cloak and laid her down in the bottom of the boat , advising her with an oath to `` keep snug or she would capsize them . '' 
In despair she renounced all further effort . 
Silent and motionless she lay , the cold spray dashing over her unheeded ; till wet , chilled , and miserable , she was lifted on board a small brig which lay about half a mile from the shore . 
She was carried down to the cabin , which was more decent than is usual in vessels of that size . 
Laura spent most of her time upon deck , the fresh air reviving her spirits . 
One male and one female attendant seemed appropriated to her , and served her with even officious assiduity . 
Hoping that some opportunity might occur of transmitting an account of her situation to England , she begged these obsequious attendants to supply her with writing-materials ; but was firmly , though respectfully , refused . 
The third morning came , and Laura looked in vain for any object to vary the immeasurable waste . 
She observed that the course of the vessel was in general directly west ; and if she had before doubted , this circumstance would have convinced her of her destination . 
She once ventured to inquire whither the ship was bound , but was answered that `` she should know that when she reached the port . '' 
It was on the fourth of May that Laura began her ill-omened voyage . 
All ran to gaze with glad eyes on what seemed a low cloud , faintly descried on the verge of the horizon -- all but Laura , who looked sadly forward , as to the land of exile , of degradation , -- of death . 
Laura inquired what town it was ; and , though refused all information , surmised that Quebec lay before her . 
Opposite the town , the ship hove to ; a boat was launched , and Laura expected to be sent on shore . 
Nor did she unwillingly prepare to go . 
`` Surely , '' thought she , `` in this populous city some one will be found to listen to my tale , and wrest me from the arm of the oppressor . '' 
The boat however departed without her , carrying ashore the man who had hitherto attended her . 
After remaining on shore for several hours , the man returned , and the vessel again proceeded in her voyage . 
Laura now imagined that Montreal was her destined port ; and again she strove to hope that , among numbers , she should find aid . 
A still cloudy evening had succeeded to a sultry day , when Laura observed an unusual bustle upon deck . 
It was growing dark , when , as she leant over the rail , to watch the fire-flies that flashed like stars in the air , the captain approaching her , told her that she must go ashore , and immediately lifted her into a boat which lay along-side . 
Her attendants and baggage were already there ; the sailors had taken their oars ; and , roaring to their companions a rough `` good night , '' made towards the land . 
Instead , however , of gaining the nearest point , they rowed into what in the darkness seemed a creek ; but Laura soon perceived that , having left the great river on which they had hitherto sailed , they were following the course of one of its tributary streams . 
The darkness prevented her from distinguishing objects on the banks , though now and then a light , glimmering from a casement , shewed that the haunts of man were near . 
She could not even discern the countenances of the sailors ; but she observed , that he who seemed to direct the others , spoke in a voice which was new to her ear . 
The day dawned ; and Laura perceived that , passing an open cultivated plain , she was pursuing her course towards woods impervious to the light . 
The travellers had proceeded for some time shaded by the overhanging woods , the distance lengthened by the dreary sameness of their way , when a wild halloo smote Laura 's ear ; and she perceived that three Indians stood at the water-edge , making signs for the boat to land . 
To her unspeakable surprise , the sailors joyfully obeyed the signal . 
Placed with her attendants on a little eminence , which rose above the swampy margin of the river , Laura took a fearful survey of the scene around her . 
Save where the sluggish stream opened to the day , her view was bounded to a few yards of marshy ground , rank with unwholesome vegetation . 
She had not long continued her melancholy survey , when the two stoutest of the Indians approached ; and one of them , after talking apart with her attendants , lifted her female servant in his arms , and walked on . 
The other , making some uncouth gestures , prepared to raise Laura from the ground . 
She shrunk back alarmed ; but the Indian , in broken French , assured her that he would not hurt her ; and , pointing towards the woods , reminded her of the difficulty of passing them on foot . 
Her valet , too , represented the fatigue she must undergo , if she refused the assistance of the Indian . 
But Laura preferring a toilsome march to such a mode of conveyance , persevered in her refusal ; and , bidding them lead the way , followed into the pathless wild . 
No work of man appeared , not even the faintest trace that ever man had toiled through this wilderness ; yet Laura perceived that the Indians proceeded without hesitation . 
One of them carried a bag of provisions ; and having reached a spot where the ground was firm and dry , he invited Laura to sit down and take some refreshment . 
Faint with fatigue , Laura thankfully acceded . 
Scarcely , however , had she seated herself on the grass , ere her attention was drawn by a slight though unusual noise ; and she was told that it was caused by a rattlesnake . 
At this intelligence her maid , screaming , started up , and was going to dart forward into the wood . 
The Indians beheld her terror with silent contempt , while Laura calmly detained her with gentle force . 
`` Stay , Mary , '' said she . 
The influence which Laura always acquired over those with whom she lived , prevailed over Mary 's dread ; and in a few moments the serpent was seen by one of the Indians , who killed it with a single blow . 
Their hasty meal ended , the party proceeded on their way ; but they had not gone far ere Laura , worn out with toil and sorrow , sunk upon the ground . 
She had now no choice ; and the Indian , lifting her with the same ease as she would have done an infant , went on with more speed than before . 
With a faint sensation of gladness , Laura beheld traces of human kind . 
Mary 's exclamations of grief and surprise first informed Laura that she had reached her home . 
To Laura the dreariness of the scene was of small concern . 
No outward circumstances could add to the horrors with which her fears were familiar . 
While her attendant bewailed aloud that ever thirst of gain had lured her from happy England , Laura was inwardly striving to revive the hope that sudden death might snatch her from the grasp of the oppressor ; and renewing her oft-repeated prayer , -- `` Oh that Thou wouldst hide me in the grave . '' 
But no selfish sorrow could make her regardless of the woes of others . 
`` Courage , Mary , '' said she , with a foreboding smile , `` we shall soon be released ; and both , I hope , find shelter in our Father 's house . '' 
To the innermost Laura was conducted ; and she saw that it had been arranged for her . 
Laura looked round to observe whether any trace of Hargrave 's presence was visible . 
She examined every recess and corner of her new abode , as one who fears the lurking assassin . 
She ascertained that Hargrave was not its inmate ; and thanked Heaven for the prospect of one night of peace . 
Laura 's bodily frame , however , could not long keep pace with the efforts of her mind , for her health and strength were failing under the continued influence of grief and fear . 
And death was ever present to her thoughts , -- the only point to which her hope turned steadily ! 
She wished that some friend should pity her hard fate , and know that the victim had shrunk from it , though in vain . 
Intending to leave behind her some attestation of her innocence , she besought Mary to procure for her the means of writing . 
said she . 
The irresistible sweetness of Laura had won the heart of her attendant , and Mary promised that she would endeavour to gratify her . 
She said that the writing materials were kept carefully locked up by Robert , the man-servant ; that his master 's orders on that subject had been peremptory ; that she was sure he would not venture to disobey while there remained a possibility of conveying intelligence from the place of their confinement ; that two of the Indians were to depart on the following day ; that after they were gone , no means of access to the habitable world remaining , Robert might possibly relax his strictness , and permit Laura to amuse herself with writing . 
Mary 's words awakened in Laura 's mind an idea that all was not yet lost . 
The Indians were suspected of favouring her . 
They might then bear her appeal to human pity , to human justice . 
If she could find means to speak with them apart , she would plead so earnestly that even savages would be moved to mercy ! 
At these thoughts a ray of hope once more kindled in her breast . 
All day she watched for an opportunity to address one of the Indians . 
Robert guarded her with such relentless fidelity , that she found it impossible to effect her purpose . 
Mary performed her promise , and the unfortunate Laura wrote the following letter , which was afterwards by Hargrave 's permission conveyed to Mrs Douglas . 
`` My dearest Laura -- The tantalizing business which has so long thwarted my wishes will still detain me for two days . 
`` You know , Laura , how I have doated on you . 
I will own , too , dearest Laura , that after all I have done , and all that I may be compelled to do , I dare not trust for pardon to your pity alone . 
You must be mine , bewitching Laura . 
`` My charming Laura , for now indeed I may call you mine , pardon , in consideration of its sincerity , the abrupt language I am compelled to hold . 
The whole of the night preceding Hargrave 's arrival , was passed by Laura in acts of devotion . 
In her life , blameless as it had appeared to others , she saw so much ground for condemnation , that , had her hopes rested upon her own merit , they would have vanished like the sunshine of a winter storm . 
The raptures of faith beamed on her soul . 
By degrees they triumphed over every fear ; and the first sound that awoke the morning , was her voice raised in a trembling hymn of praise . 
Her countenance elevated as in hope ; her eyes cast upwards ; her hands clasped ; her lips half open in the unfinished adoretion ; her face brightened with a smile , the dawn of eternal day -- she was found by her attendant . 
Awe-struck , the woman paused , and at a reverend distance gazed upon the seraph ; but her entrance had called back the unwilling spirit from its flight ; and Laura , once more a feeble child of earth , faintly inquired whether her enemy were at hand . 
Mary answered that her master was not expected to arrive before the evening ; and entreated that Laura would try to recruit her spirits , and accept of some refreshment . 
Laura made no opposition . 
She unconsciously swallowed what was placed before her ; unwittingly suffered her attendant to lead her abroad ; nor once heeded ought that was done to her , nor ought that passed before her eyes ; till her exhausted limbs found rest upon the trunk of a tree , which lay mouldering near the spot where its root was sending forth a luxuriant thicket . 
The breath of morning blew chill on the wasted form of Laura , while it somewhat revived her to strength and recollection . 
Her attendant seeing her shiver in the breeze , compassionately wrapped her more closely in her cloak , and ran to seek a warmer covering . 
`` She feels for my bodily wants , '' said Laura . 
Her eye rested as it fell , upon a track as of recent footsteps . 
The unwonted trace of man 's presence arrested her attention ; and her mind , exhausted by suffering , and sharing the weakness of its frail abode , admitted the superstitious thought that these marks afforded a providential indication for her guidance . 
Transient animation kindling in her frame , she followed the track as it wound round a thicket of poplar ; then , suddenly recollecting herself , she became conscious of the delusion , and shed a tear over her mental decay . 
She was about to return , when she perceived that she was near the bank of the river . 
Its dark flood was stealing noiseless by , and Laura , looking on it , breathed the oft-repeated wish that she could seek rest beneath its waves . 
Again she moved feebly forward . 
She reached the brink of the stream , and stood unconsciously following its course with her eye ; when a light wind stirring the canes that grew down to the water edge , she beheld close by her an Indian canoe . 
With suddenness that mocks the speed of light , hope flashed on the darkened soul ; and , stretching her arms in wild ecstasy , `` Help , help , '' cried Laura , and sprung towards the boat . 
Again she called . 
But delirious transport lent vigour to her frame . 
She sprung into the bark ; she pressed the slender oar against the bank . 
The light vessel yielded to her touch . 
The woods closed around her prison . 
she cried ; and sunk senseless . 
A meridian sun beat on her uncovered head ere Laura began to revive . 
Recollection stole upon her like the remembrance of a feverish dream . 
As one who , waking from a fearful vision , still trembles in his joy , she scarcely dared to hope that the dread hour was past , till raising her eyes she saw the dark woods bend over her , and steal slowly away as the canoe glided on with the tide . 
The day declined ; and Laura with the joy of her escape began to mingle a wish , that , ere the darkness closed around her , she might find shelter near her fellow beings . 
She was not ignorant of the dangers of her voyage . 
She knew that the navigation of the river was interrupted by rapids , which had been purposely described in her hearing . 
She examined her frail vessel and trembled ; for life was again become precious , and feeble seemed her defence against the torrent . 
It yielded to the slightest motion , and caution was necessary to poise in it even the light form of Laura . 
Slowly it floated down the lingering tide ; and , when a pine of larger size or form more fantastic than his fellows enabled her to measure her progress , she thought that through wilds less impassable her own limbs would have borne her more swiftly . 
In vain behind each tangled point did her fancy picture the haunt of man . 
Vainly amid the mists of eve did she trace the smoke of sheltered cottages . 
In vain at every winding of the stream she sent forward a longing eye in search of human dwelling . 
The shadows of evening fell ; not such as in her happy native land blend softly with the last radiance of day ; but black and heavy , harshly contrasting with the light of a naked sky reflected from the waters , where they spread beyond the gloom of impending woods . 
Ignorant how near the place of danger might be , fearing to pursue darkling her perilous way , Laura tried to steer her light bark to the shore , intending to moor it , to find in it a rude resting place , and in the morning to pursue her way . 
Laboriously she toiled , and at length reached the bank in safety ; but in vain she tried to draw her little vessel to land . 
Its weight resisted her strength . 
Dreading that it should slip from her grasp and leave her without means of escape , she re-entered it , and again glided on in her dismal voyage . 
She had found in the canoe a little coarse bread made of Indian corn ; and this , with the water of the river , formed her whole sustenance . 
Her frame worn out with previous suffering , awe and fear at last yielded to fatigue ; and the weary wanderer sunk to sleep . 
It was late on the morning of a cloudy day , when a low murmuring sound stealing on the silence awoke Laura from the rest of innocence . 
She listened . 
The murmur seemed to swell on her ear . 
She looked up . 
The dark woods still bent over her . 
Fear supplying super-human strength , Laura strove to turn the course of her vessel . 
She strained every nerve ; she used the force of desperation . 
Half-hoping that the struggle might save her , half-fearing to note her dreadful progress , she toiled on till the oar was torn from her powerless grasp , and hurried along with the tide . 
The fear of death alone had not the power to overwhelm the soul of Laura . 
Somewhat might yet be done perhaps to avert her fate , at least to prepare for it . 
Fixing her cloak more firmly round her , Laura bound it to the slender frame of the canoe . 
Then commending herself to heaven with the fervour of a last prayer , she , in dread stillness , awaited her doom . 
Laura clung to it in the convulsion of terror . 
A moment she trembled on the giddy verge . 
When Laura was restored to recollection , she found herself in a plain decent apartment . 
Several persons of her own sex were humanely busied in attending her . 
Her mind retaining a confused impression of the past , she inquired where she was , and how she had been brought thither . 
This benevolent person , whose name was Falkland , then administered a restorative to her patient ; and Laura , uttering almost incoherent expressions of gratitude , composed herself to rest . 
Awaking refreshed and collected , she found Mrs Falkland and one of her daughters still watching by her bed-side . 
Laura again repeated her questions , and Mrs Falkland fulfilled her promise , by relating that her husband , who was a farmer , having been employed with his two sons in a field which overlooked the river , had observed the canoe enter the rapid : That seeing it too late to prevent the accident , they had hurried down to the bed of the stream below the fall , in hopes of intercepting the boat at its reappearance : That being accustomed to float wood down the torrent , they knew precisely the spot where their assistance was most likely to prove effectual : That the canoe , though covered with foam for a moment , had instantly risen again , and that Mr Falkland and his sons had , not without danger , succeeded in drawing it to land . 
She then , in her turn , inquired by what accident Laura had been exposed to such a perilous adventure ; expressing wonder at the direction of her voyage , since Falkland farm was the last inhabited spot in that district . 
Laura , mingling her natural reserve with a desire to satisfy her kind hostess , answered that she had been torn from her friends by an inhuman enemy , and that her perilous voyage was the least effect of his barbarity . 
Laura heard with a faint smile the effect of her self-possession ; but considering it as a call to pious gratitude rather than a theme of self-applause , she forbore to offer any claim to praise ; and the subject was suffered to drop without further explanation . 
Having remained for two days with this hospitable family , Laura expressed a wish to depart . 
She communicated to Mr Falkland her desire of returning immediately to Europe ; and begged that he would introduce her to some asylum where she might wait the departure of a vessel for Britain . 
She expressed her willingness to content herself with the poorest accommodation , confessing that she had not the means of purchasing any of a higher class . 
All the wealth , indeed , which she could command , consisted in a few guineas which she had accidentally had about her when she was taken from her home ; and a ring which Mrs De Courcy had given her at parting . 
At last it approached the great river ; and Laura gazed with delight on the ever-changing , rich , and beautiful scenes which were presented to her view ; scenes which she had passed unheeded when grief and fear veiled every prospect in gloom . 
But before he had been an hour in the town , he received information that a ship was weighing anchor for the Clyde , and Laura eagerly embraced the opportunity . 
The captain being informed by Mr Falkland , that she could not advance the price of her passage , at first hesitated to receive her ; but when , with the irresistible candour and majesty that shone in all her looks and words , she assured him of his reward , when she spoke to him in the accents of his native land , the Scotsman 's heart melted ; and having satisfied himself that she was a Highlander , he closed the bargain , by swearing that he was sure he might trust her . 
With tears in her eyes , Laura took leave of her benevolent host ; yet her heart bounded with joy as she saw the vessel cleaving the tide , and each object in the dreaded land of exile swiftly retiring from her view . 
The brisk gales of autumn wafted the vessel cheerfully on her way ; and often did Laura compute her progress . 
In a clear frosty morning towards the end of September , she heard once more the cry of land ! 
-- now music to her ear . 
Now with a beating breast she ran to gaze upon a ridge of mountains indenting the disk of the rising sun ; but the tears of rapture dimmed her eyes , when every voice at once shouted `` Scotland ! '' 
All day Laura remained on deck , oft measuring with the light splinter the vessel 's course through the deep . 
The winds favoured not her impatience . 
Another and another morning came , and Laura 's ear was blessed with the first sounds of her native land . 
The humble village church was seen on the shore ; and Laura could distinguish the gay colouring of her country-women 's Sunday attire , -- the scarlet plaid , transmitted from generation to generation , pinned decently over the plain clean coif , -- the bright blue gown , the trophy of more recent housewifery . 
To her every form in the well-known garb seemed the form of a friend . 
Never had Laura heard sound so animating as the cry of `` all ready ! '' 
followed by the light short stroke of the oar that sent her swiftly forward . 
Laura stood back from the tumult , breathing a silent thanksgiving on behalf of herself and her companions . 
said the captain , approaching her , `` is there naebody to welcome thee ? 
Laura thankfully accepted the proposal ; and the fly-boat being just about to sail up the river , she placed in it the little packet of necessaries which she had collected at Quebec , and accompanied the good-natured sailor to his home . 
She was kindly received by his wife and daughter , and furnished with the best accommodations they could command . 
The next morning she gave the captain a draft for the price of her passage ; and producing her purse and Mrs De Courcy 's ring , offered them as further security ; saying , that as she was now in her own country , a few shillings would support her till she reached her friends , since she might travel to Perthshire on foot . 
The sailor , however , positively refused to accept of any thing more than the draft , swearing that if he were deceived in Laura , he would never trust woman again . 
He then , at her desire , procured her a seat in the stage-coach , and once more she proceeded on her journey . 
At a small village , a few miles from Perth , she desired to be set down . 
The distance was said to be only seven miles ; and Laura , forgetting the latitude allowed to Scotish measurement , thought she might easily reach the parsonage before night-fall . 
Leaving her little parcel at the village , she hastened forward ; -- now pausing a moment as some well-known peak or cliff met her eye , now bounding on with the light step of joy . 
She pictured the welcome of affection ; already she saw the mild countenance of her early friend ; already she felt the embrace of love . 
Darkness surprised her when she had yet much of her journey to perform , and had shrouded every object ere she reached the well-known gate , and saw across the narrow lawn the lights streaming from the window . 
She stopped -- fear stealing on her joy . 
Her friend , her mother , might be ill , might be dead ! 
She again proceeded . 
She entered the hall . 
A group of cheerful faces appeared , ruddy with youth and health ; but Laura 's eye rested on one of more mature , more interesting grace , -- one shaded with untimely silver , and lighted up with milder fires . 
She remained motionless , fearing to surprise her friend by too suddenly appearing , till one of the girls , observing her , exclaimed , in a transport of joy , `` Laura ! 
Laura ! '' 
The first burst of gladness was succeeded by the solicitous inquiry , by the interesting narrative ; and Laura beguiled her friend of many tears by the story of her sad voyage , her hopeless captivity , her perilous escape . 
Tears , too , of real bitterness rose to her own eyes , at the thought that although she had escaped from the cruelty of her oppressor , yet its consequences must be lasting as her life ; and that she was now pouring her story into almost the only ear which would be open to her protestations of innocence . 
But she would not cloud the hour of joy by calling the attention of her friend to the shade that rested on her prospects ; nor diminish her own gratitude for deliverance from more real misfortune , by anticipating the scorns of the world . 
She uttered not the faintest foreboding of evil , but continued with serene cheerfulness to ` charm as she was wont to do , ' till at a late hour the friendly party separated for the night . 
Weary as she was , Laura could not rest . 
She had a task to perform too painful to be thought of with indifference . 
It was necessary to write to De Courcy ; and to damp all the pleasure which a knowledge of her safety would convey , by retracting engagements which had been made when her alliance inferred no dishonour . 
She well knew that De Courcy himself , convinced of her innocence , would spurn the idea of forsaking her in misfortune , -- of giving , by his desertion , a sanction to calumny . 
And should she take advantage of his honour and his love to fix in his heart the incurable anguish of following to the wife of his bosom the glance of suspicion or of scorn ! 
Laura had already taken her resolution , and the next day saw it effected . 
She wrote to De Courcy , detailing minutely every event that had befallen her from the hour of their separation till her landing in Britain . 
There her narrative closed . 
She told not in what spot the wanderer had found rest . 
She did not even intimate in what part of the island she had disembarked , lest it should furnish a clue to her present retreat . 
Nor did she , by expressions of tenderness and regret , aggravate the pang which she was compelled to inflict . 
In words like these she proceeded . 
Not the weak Laura , who , by a constitutional defect , shrinks even from the eye where she can not read distrust ! 
This letter Laura accompanied with another , in which she begged Mrs De Courcy 's assistance in reconciling her son to the change in his prospects . 
Her lot thus chosen , Laura began to make arrangements for entering on a mode of life befitting her situation . 
Fearing that the shaft of slander should glance aside from herself to the friends who still clung to her , she steadily resisted Mrs Douglas 's warm invitations to make the parsonage her home . 
Her father 's little farm at Glenalbert had been annexed to one of larger size . 
The cottage remained untenanted , and thither Laura determined to retire . 
Her fortune , however far from affluent , she thought would suffice to support the humble establishment which she meant to retain . 
One servant was sufficient for her who had been accustomed to make few claims on the assistance of others . 
To obviate the impropriety of living alone while yet extreme youth made even nominal protection valuable , she invited an elderly widow lady , poor , but respectable , to preside in her household . 
In necessary preparations for her removal to Glenalbert , in affectionate assiduities to the friends with whom she resided , in compensating to her own poor for her long though involuntary neglect of their claims , Laura sought a refuge from painful reflection ; and , if a sigh arose at the review of her altered prospects , she called to mind her deliverance , and regret was exchanged for thankfulness . 
Laura was a Christian , and she could even at times rejoice that the spirit of vanity was mortified , that the temptations of the world were withdrawn ; even where the blow was more painful , she humbly believed that it was necessary , and thankfully owned that it was kind . 
The arrangements for her new establishment were soon completed , and the time came when Laura was to begin her life of seclusion . 
The day before her intended removal she completed her twentieth year ; and Mrs Douglas would have assembled a little group of friends to celebrate the occasion , but Laura steadily opposed it . 
`` Let not one who is suspected , '' said she , `` assume the boldness of innocence ! 
The holiday was granted ; and Laura , amidst the joyful noisy little company that soon assembled round her , forgot that she was an outcast . 
She was busily searching every corner for the hidden handkerchief , the little rogue who had concealed it in his shoe laughing the while and clapping his hands in delight , when she started at the voice of a stranger in the lobby , who was announcing that he had a letter for Mrs Douglas , which he could deliver to no person but herself . 
The next moment the stranger was shewn into the room , and Laura with amazement beheld her American attendant . 
He started , he trembled , and at first shrunk from Laura , then eagerly advancing towards her , `` Bless my soul , Madam ! '' 
`` You may remember , Madam , '' said he , addressing himself to Laura , `` it was the morning we expected my master , -LRB- though I told Mary , for a make-believe , that he would not come till evening , -RRB- that morning Mary took you out and left you ; for which I was mortal angry with her , for my mind misgave me that some mischief would come of it . 
Laura , dreadfully shocked , and no longer able to listen to this horrible relation , hastened out of the room , leaving Mrs Douglas to hear what yet remained to be told of the history of a man of pleasure !!! 
He then delivered the packet , which Mrs Douglas opening in his presence , found to contain a bill for L. 300 in favour of Robert Lewson , not payable without her signature ; the two letters which Laura had written during her exile ; and the following lines , rendered almost illegible by the convulsive startings of the hand which traced them . 
Mrs Douglas had no sooner read the contents of her packet , than she hastened to communicate them to Laura . 
Laura was , however , for the present , in no state to share her joy . 
She could only weep ; and , trembling , pray that she might be enabled to guard against the first beginnings of that self-indulgence , whose end is destruction ! 
Laura , as superior to coquetry as to any other species of despicable cruelty , instantly sat down to communicate the news to her lover . 
To her plain unvarnished tale , she added copies of the letters which attested her innocence , with Lewson 's account of the names and address of those persons who had been employed to carry her from England . 
Evening was drawing on before Laura had finished her task ; and , desirous to recruit her spirits before she joined the family circle , she stole abroad to breathe the reviving air of her native hills . 
She had crossed the little lawn , and was opening the gate , when seeing a carriage drive quickly up , she drew back . 
She heard an exclamation of joy , and the next moment she was pressed to the heart of De Courcy . 
Laura first recovered utterance . 
`` What happy chance , '' she cried , `` has brought you here just at the moment when I am permitted to rejoice that you are come ? '' 
`` Ah , Laura , '' said De Courcy , `` could I know that you were alive and in Britain , yet make no effort to find you ? 
The little shrubbery walk which led round the lawn to the parsonage was not half a quarter of a mile in length , yet it was an hour before the lovers reached the house ; and before Laura presented De Courcy to her friends , she had promised that in one week she would reward his tried affection ; and had settled , that after they had spent a few days in delightful solitude at Glenalbert , she would accompany him to Norwood . 
Laura has now been for some years a wife ; and the same qualities which made her youth respectable , endear her to the happy partner of her maturer life . 
She still finds daily exercise for her characteristic virtue ; since even amidst the purest worldly bliss self-denial is necessary . 
