A moment after she spoke in the sad old words of the Hebrew Scripture , -- `` Call her not Naomi ; call her Mara , for the Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me . '' 
It was ordered by the Willabove that out of these two graves should spring one frail , trembling autumn flower , -- the `` Mara '' whose poor little roots first struck deep in the salt , bitter waters of our mortal life . 
A few moments more , and on a baby brow had fallen a few drops of water , and the little pilgrim of a new life had been called Mara in the name of the Father , Son , and Holy Ghost , -- the minister slowly repeating thereafter those beautiful words of Holy Writ , `` A father of the fatherless is God in his holy habitation , '' -- as if the baptism of that bereaved one had been a solemn adoption into the infinite heart of the Lord . 
And she said unto them , Call me not Naomi ; call me Mara ; for the Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me . 
`` Well , now , '' said Miss Roxy , giving a decisive push to the tea-pot , which buried it yet deeper in the embers , `` a 'n' t it all a strange kind o ' providence that this ` ere little thing is left behind so ; and then their callin ' on her by such a strange , mournful kind of name , -- Mara . 
`` Mara , dear , '' said Miss Ruey , interrupting the child 's steady look-out , `` what you thinking of ? '' 
Sally takes to Mara just 'cause she 's so different . '' 
`` Well , now , you may , '' said Dame Pennel ; `` to be sure , heca n't bear her out of his sight a minute after he comes in ; but after all , old folks ca n't be company for children . '' 
Accordingly , that afternoon , the little Mara was arrayed in a little blue flounced dress , which stood out like a balloon , made by Miss Roxy in first-rate style , from a French fashion-plate ; her golden hair was twined in manifold curls by Dame Pennel , who , restricted in her ideas of ornamentation , spared , nevertheless , neither time nor money to enhance the charms of this single ornament to her dwelling . 
Mara was her picture-gallery , who gave her in the twenty-four hours as many Murillos or Greuzes as a lover of art could desire ; and as she tied over the child 's golden curls a little flat hat , and saw her go dancing off along the seasands , holding to Miss Roxy 's bony finger , she felt she had in her what galleries of pictures could not buy . 
His good wife , a sharp-eyed , literal body , and a vigorous church-member , felt some concern of conscience on the score of these narrations ; for , being their constant auditor , she , better than any one else , could perceive the variations and discrepancies of text which showed their mythical character , and oftentimes her black eyes would snap and her knitting-needles rattle with an admonitory vigor as he went on , and sometimes she would unmercifully come in at the end of a narrative with , -- `` Well , now , the Cap'n 's told them ar stories till he begins to b ` lieve 'em himself , I think . '' 
`` Well , Sally , '' said Mrs. Kittridge , `` stick in your needle , fold up your sheet , put your thimble in your work-pocket , and then you may take the little Mara down to the cove to play ; but be sure you do n't let her go near the tar , nor wet her shoes . 
The little Mara had one of those sensitive , excitable natures , on which every external influence acts with immediate power . 
The little Mara seemed like a fairy sprite , possessed with a wild spirit of glee . 
Zephaniah Pennelcame back to his house in the evening , after Miss Roxy had taken the little Mara away . 
He looked for the flowery face and golden hair as he came towards the door , and put his hand in his vest-pocket , where he had deposited a small store of very choice shells and sea curiosities , thinking of the widening of those dark , soft eyes when he should present them . 
`` Where 's Mara ? '' 
was the first inquiry after he had crossed the threshold . 
Here Mrs. Pennel entered the room , `` the Captain '' addressing her eagerly , -- `` How came you to let Aunt Roxy take Mara off so far , and be gone so long ? '' 
Chil ` en want chil ` en ; Miss Roxy says she 's altogether too sort o ' still and old-fashioned , and must have child 's company to chirk her up , and so she took her down to play with Sally Kittridge ; there 's no manner of danger or harm in it , and she 'll be back to-morrow afternoon , and Mara will have a real good time . '' 
`` It 's kind o ' lonesome to have poor little Mara away such a night as this is , '' said Mrs. Pennel ; `` but who would a-thought it this afternoon , when Aunt Roxy took her ? '' 
`` I do n't like such stories , '' said Dame Pennel , `` ` specially to-night when Mara 's away . 
I went on down to Kittridge 's to get a look at little Mara . '' 
Duringthe night and storm , the little Mara had lain sleeping as quietly as if the cruel sea , that had made her an orphan from her birth , were her kind-tempered old grandfather singing her to sleep , as he often did , -- with a somewhat hoarse voice truly , but with ever an undertone of protecting love . 
The woman laid her hand on her head as if in blessing , and then put the boy 's hand in hers , and said , `` Take him , Mara , he is a playmate for you ; '' and with that the little boy 's face flashed out into a merry laugh . 
`` What 's Mara looking after ? '' 
`` Come , Mara , let 's make a pretty house ! '' 
said the voice of her mother , entering the door at this moment ; `` and here , put these clothes on to Mara , the child must n't run round in her best ; it 's strange , now , Mary Pennel never thinks of such things . '' 
Sally , who was of an efficient temperament , was preparing energetically to second these commands of her mother , and endue her little neighbor with a coarse brown stuff dress , somewhat faded and patched , which she herself had outgrown when of Mara 's age ; with shoes , which had been coarsely made to begin with , and very much battered by time ; but , quite to her surprise , the child , generally so passive and tractable , opposed a most unexpected and desperate resistance to this operation . 
`` Mara do n't want -- Mara want pitty boo des -- and pittyshoes . '' 
`` Why do n't Mara want nice checked apron ? '' 
Sally , after the first moment , had run screaming toward the house , with all a child 's forward eagerness , to be the bearer of news ; but the little Mara stood , looking anxiously , with a wishful earnestness of face . 
Stand away , Mara ! 
The little Mara had , with the quiet persistence which formed a trait in her baby character , dragged stools and chairs to the back of the bed , which she at last succeeded in scaling , and sat opposite to where the child lay , grave and still , watching with intense earnestness the process that was going on . 
The little Mara seemed to appropriate him in feminine fashion , as a chosen idol and graven image . 
She gave him at once all her slender stock of infantine treasures , and seemed to watch with an ecstatic devotion his every movement , -- often repeating , as she looked delightedly around , `` Pitty boy , come . '' 
Have you took little Mara in to look at the corpse ? '' 
At this moment Sally and the little Mara entered the room . 
Sally 's bright face expressed only the vague curiosity of a child to see something new ; but the little Mara resisted and hung back with all her force , so that Mrs. Kittridge was obliged to take her up and hold her . 
Sally walked around it , and gratified her curiosity by seeing it from every point of view , and laying her warm , busy hand on the lifeless and cold one ; but Mara clung to Mrs. Kittridge , with eyes that expressed a distressed astonishment . 
The little Mara had no words to tell what a strange , distressful chill had passed up her arm and through her brain , as she felt that icy cold of death , -- that cold so different from all others . 
`` You seem to forget , Mis ' Kittridge , that this ` ere child a 'n' t rugged like our Sally , '' said Aunt Roxy , as she raised the little Mara in her arms . 
In fact , it became necessary to do so in order to appease the feelings of the little Mara , who clung to the new acquisition with most devoted fondness , and wept bitterly when he was separated from her even for a few moments . 
`` You see , '' said Miss Roxy , `` I think they 'll adopt it to be company for little Mara ; they ` r ' bound up in her , and the little thing pines bein ' alone . '' 
The fact was , as the reader may perceive , that Miss Roxy had been thawed into an unusual attachment for the little Mara , and this affection was beginning to spread a warming element through her whole being . 
Meanwhile , on this same evening , the little Mara frisked like a household fairy round the hearth of Zephaniah Pennel . 
The boy was a strong-limbed , merry-hearted little urchin , and did full justice to the abundant hospitalities of Mrs. Pennel 's tea-table ; and after supper little Mara employed herself in bringing apronful after apronful of her choicest treasures , and laying them down at his feet . 
His great black eyes flashed with pleasure , and he gambolled about the hearth with his new playmate in perfect forgetfulness , apparently , of all the past night of fear and anguish . 
When the great family Bible was brought out for prayers , and little Mara composed herself on a low stool by her grandmother 's side , he , however , did not conduct himself as a babe of grace . 
He resisted all Miss Ruey 's efforts to make him sit down beside her , and stood staring with his great , black , irreverent eyes during the Bible-reading , and laughed out in the most inappropriate manner when the psalm-singing began , and seemed disposed to mingle incoherent remarks of his own even in the prayers . 
`` It seems a real providence to give Mara some company -- the poor child pines so for want of it . '' 
`` Well , then , Mary , if you say so , we will bring him up with our little Mara , '' said Zephaniah , drawing the child toward him . 
The washings , and wipings , and sobbings , and exhortings , and the sympathetic sobs of the little Mara , formed a small tempest for the time being that was rather appalling . 
Away plodded the good soul , and opening the barn-door saw the little boy perched on the top of the hay-mow , screaming and shrieking , -- his face the picture of dismay , -- while poor little Mara 's cries came in a more muffled manner from some unexplored lower region . 
How upon ` arth the critter managed to get Mara on to the hay , I 'm sure I ca n't tell , -- that ar little thing never got into no such scrapes before . '' 
Far from seeming impressed with any wholesome remorse of conscience , the little culprit frowned fierce defiance at Miss Ruey , when , after having repaired the damages of little Mara 's toilet , she essayed the good old plan of shutting him into the closet . 
He fought and struggled so fiercely that Aunt Ruey 's carroty frisette came off in the skirmish , and her head-gear , always rather original , assumed an aspect verging on the supernatural . 
`` Why , Mara dear , -- putty little Mara . '' 
But Mara was busy wiping away the angry tears that stood on the hot , glowing cheeks of the boy , and offering her little rose-bud of a mouth to kiss him , as she stood on tiptoe . 
`` Poor boy , -- no kie , -- Mara 's boy , '' she said , -- `` Mara love boy ; '' and then giving an angry glance at Aunt Ruey , who sat much disheartened and confused , she struck out her little pearly hand , and cried , `` Go way , -- go way , naughty ! '' 
The child jabbered unintelligibly and earnestly to Mara , and she seemed to have the air of being perfectly satisfied with his view of the case , and both regarded Miss Ruey with frowning looks . 
Mara was appeased at once , and ran to Aunt Ruey ; but the boy struck the cake out of her hand , and looked at her with steady defiance . 
But what drew artless pity from all was the unconscious orphan , who came in , led by Mrs. Pennel by the one hand , and with the little Mara by the other . 
It seemed to her that Mrs. Kittridge saw it all , -- how she had ingloriously bought peace with gingerbread , instead of maintaining it by rightful authority , -- how young master had sat up till nine o'clock on divers occasions , and even kept little Mara up for his lordly pleasure . 
Now Mrs. Pennel and Mara belonged to the first class , and little Master Moses to the latter . 
It was a warm , sunny afternoon , and the three women , being busy together with their stitching , had tied a sun-bonnet on little Mara , and turned the two loose upon the beach to pick up shells . 
He persuaded Mara to give him her pink sun-bonnet , which he placed for a pennon on a stick at the end of the boat , while he made a vehement dashing with another , first on one side of the boat and then on the other , -- spattering the water in diamond showers , to the infinite amusement of the little maiden . 
He had got Mara all to himself , and was going away with her from all grown people , who would n't let children do as they pleased , -- who made them sit still in prayer-time , and took them to meeting , and kept so many things which they must not touch , or open , or play with . 
`` Oh , Mara , Mara ! 
It was the most exhilarating and piquant entertainment he had found for many a day ; and little Mara laughed in chorus at every lunge that he made . 
As his boat-keel grazed the sands on the other side , a shout of laughter came upon his ear from behind a cedar-covered rock , and soon emerged Captain Kittridge , as long and lean and brown as the Ancient Mariner , carrying little Mara on one shoulder , while Sally and little Moses Pennel trotted on before . 
The fact was that Mrs. Kittridge had gone to a tea-drinking over at Maquoit , and left the Captain as house-keeper and general overseer ; and little Mara and Moses and Sally had been gloriously keeping holiday with him down by the boat-cove , where , to say the truth , few shavings were made , except those necessary to adorn the children 's heads with flowing suits of curls of a most extraordinary effect . 
Mara clung tight to the Captain 's neck , and looked out slyly under her curls . 
But the little Moses made a step forward , and fixed his bold , dark , inquisitive eyes upon him . 
As to Mara and Sally , they were revelling in apronsful of shells and sea-weed , which they bustled into the other room to bestow in their spacious baby-house . 
I am well able to afford it , and Mis ' Pennel , she agrees to it , and on the whole I do n't think we 'd best go back on our steps ; besides , our little Mara has thrived since he came under our roof . 
He is , to be sure , kind o ' masterful , and I shall have to take him off Mis ' Pennel 's hands before long , and put him into the sloop . 
But , after all , there seems to be the makin ' of a man in him , and when we are called away , why he 'll be as a brother to poor little Mara . 
As for Mara , she is now a child of seven , still adorned with long golden curls -- still looking dreamily out of soft hazel eyes into some unknown future not her own . 
When Moses was full of Romulus and Numa , Mara pondered the story of the nymph Egeria -- sweet parable , in which lies all we have been saying . 
Her trust in him was boundless . 
He was a constant hero in her eyes , and in her he found a steadfast believer as to all possible feats and exploits to which he felt himself competent , for the boy often had privately assured her that he could command the Brilliant as well as father himself . 
The love of flowers seemed to be one of her earliest characteristics , and the young spring flowers of New England , in their airy delicacy and fragility , were much like herself -- and so strong seemed the affinity between them , that not only Mrs. Pennel 's best India china vases on the keeping-room mantel were filled , but here stood a tumbler of scarlet rock columbine , and there a bowl of blue and white violets , and in another place a saucer of shell-tinted crow-foot , blue liverwort , and white anemone , so that Zephaniah Pennel was wont to say there was n't a drink of water to be got , for Mara 's flowers ; but he always said it with a smile that made his weather-beaten , hard features look like a rock lit up by a sunbeam . 
the world all before him , and the blood of ten years racing and throbbing in his veins as he talks knowingly of hooks , and sinkers , and bait , and lines , and wears proudly the red flannel shirt which Mara had just finished for him . 
said Mara , perplexed between her sympathy for the fish and her desire for the glory of her hero , which must be founded on their pain ; `` I ca n't help feeling sorry when they gasp so . '' 
Mrs. Pennel stood with Mara on the shore to see them go . 
Sunday evening Mrs. Pennel was sitting pensively with little Mara by the kitchen hearth , where they had been boiling the tea-kettle for their solitary meal . 
Mara , who had always a shy affinity for the Captain , now drew towards him and climbed on his knee . 
`` But I hope , '' said Mara , apprehensively , `` that grandpapa wo n't get blown up to Baffin 's Bay . 
`` Oh , dear , dear , '' said Mara , with wide round eyes , `` what will Moses do if they get on the icebergs ? '' 
The kind-hearted Captain , feeling the fluttering heart of little Mara , and seeing the tears start in her eyes , addressed himself forthwith to consolation . 
`` Oh , never you mind , Mara , '' he said , `` there wo n't nothing hurt 'em . 
One would hardly hear it without being lightened in heart ; and little Mara gazed at his long , dry , ropy figure , and wrinkled thin face , as a sort of monument of hope ; and his uproarious laugh , which Mrs. Kittridge sometimes ungraciously compared to `` the crackling of thorns under a pot , '' seemed to her the most delightful thing in the world . 
`` Wea 'n' t too old , be we , Mara ? '' 
Would n't little Mara like a great , nice white bear to ride on , with his white fur , so soft and warm , and a saddle made of pearls , and a gold bridle ? '' 
`` You hav ' n't seen any little girls ride so , '' said Mara , doubtfully . 
`` But , you are sure , '' said Mara , confidingly , in return , `` that white bears will be kind to Moses ? '' 
because , '' said Mara , `` I know how good a wolf was to Romulus and Remus once , and nursed them when they were cast out to die . 
`` And so , '' said Mara , `` if Moses shouldhappen to get on an iceberg , a bear might take care of him , you know . '' 
Come , my little Mara , got a kiss for the dry old daddy ? 
And so the cheery Captain took up his line of march homeward , leaving little Mara 's head full of dazzling visions of the land of romance to which Moses had gone . 
Mara read the Roman history through again , and began it a third time , and read over and over again the stories and prophecies that pleased her in the Bible , and pondered the wood-cuts and texts in a very old edition of Æsop 's Fables , and as she wandered in the woods , picking fragrant bayberries and gathering hemlock , checkerberry , and sassafras to put in the beer which her grandmother brewed , she mused on the things that she read till her little mind became a tabernacle of solemn , quaint , dreamy forms -- where old Judean kings and prophets , and Roman senators and warriors , marched in and out in shadowy rounds . 
And so little Mara would lie for hours stretched out on the pebbly beach , with the broad open ocean before her and the whispering pines and hemlocks behind her , and pore over this poem , from which she collected dim , delightful images of a lonely island , an old enchanter , a beautiful girl , and a spirit not quite like those in the Bible , but a very probable one to her mode of thinking . 
As for old Caliban , she fancied him with a face much like that of a huge skate-fish she had once seen drawn ashore in one of her grandfather 's nets , -- and then there was the beautiful young Prince Ferdinand , much like what Moses would be when he was grown up -- and how glad she would be to pile up his wood for him , if any old enchanter should set him to work ! 
Mara vividly remembered the scene on the sea-beach , the finding of little Moses and his mother , the dream of the pale lady that seemed to bring him to her ; and not one of the conversations that had transpired before her among different gossips had been lost on her quiet , listening little ears . 
At the word appeared the vision of little Mara , who rose up like a spirit from a dusky corner , where she had been stooping over her reading . 
`` Why , little Mara , '' said the Captain , `` you ris up like a ghost all of a sudden . 
Mara 's eyes brightened , as they always did at this prospect , and Mrs. Pennel said , `` Well , I 'm glad to have the child go ; she seems so kind o ' still and lonesome since Moses went away ; really one feels as if that boy took all the noise there was with him . 
Mara , when she 's alone , takes to her book more than 's good for a child . '' 
Come , little Mara , get on your sun-bonnet . 
I 'll trust Mara to you any day . '' 
Mara had run into her own little room and secured her precious fragment of treasure , which she wrapped up carefully in her handkerchief , resolving to enlighten Sally with the story , and to consult the Captain on any nice points of criticism . 
`` Oh , never you fear , father , I 've done it all half an hour ago , and I 've found the most capital bed of clams just round the point here ; and you take care of Mara there , and make up a fire while I dig 'em . 
He then proceeded to construct an extemporary fireplace of loose stones , and to put together chips and shavings for the fire , -- in which work little Mara eagerly assisted ; but the fire was crackling and burning cheerily long before Sally appeared with her clams , and so the Captain , with a pile of hemlock boughs by his side , sat on a stone feeding the fire leisurely from time to time with crackling boughs . 
Now was the time for Mara to make her inquiries ; her heart beat , she knew not why , for she was full of those little timidities and shames that so often embarrass children in their attempts to get at the meanings of things in this great world , where they are such ignorant spectators . 
said little Mara . 
`` I found it in a barrel up garret , and grandma gave it to me , '' said Mara , unrolling her handkerchief ; `` it 's a beautiful book , -- it tells about an island , and there was an old enchanter lived on it , and he had one daughter , and there was a spirit they called Ariel , whom a wicked old witch fastened in a split of a pine-tree , till the enchanter got him out . 
`` Well , that about sea-nymphs ringing his knell is here , '' Mara added , beginning to read the passage with wide , dilated eyes and great emphasis . 
`` Well , '' said Mara , `` they got cast ashore on this desolate island , where they lived together . 
`` Oh , the beautiful young prince married the beautiful young lady , '' said Mara . 
said Mara , trembling between hope and fear . 
`` But , '' said Mara , `` did you ever see an enchanter that could make storms ? '' 
`` Why , '' said Mara , her eyes staring with excitement , `` that was just like this shipwreck ; and ' t was Ariel made those balls of fire ; he says so ; he said he ` flamed amazement ' all over the ship . '' 
`` But this was a good enchanter , '' said Mara , `` and he did it all by a book and a rod . '' 
`` Well , '' said Mara , `` my enchanter was a king ; and when he got through all he wanted , and got his daughter married to the beautiful young prince , he said he would break his staff , and deeper than plummet sounded he would bury his book . '' 
said Mara ; `` why , he was a real good man . '' 
Mara , who sat with her morsel of a book in her lap , seemed deeply pondering the past conversation . 
said Mara . 
said Mara . 
`` I am sorry they are bad , '' said Mara ; `` I want to see them . '' 
`` Them 's 'em , '' said the Captain , while Mara danced for joy . 
`` Afore long , '' said the Captain ; `` so , Mara , I guess you 'll want to be getting hum . '' 
You see , he 's rather unsteady , and apt to be off after other things , -- very different from Mara . 
The Cap'n 's always so fond of Mara , and she has always taken to him ever since she was a baby . '' 
At this moment the subject of their conversation appeared striding along the beach , with a large , red lobster in one hand , while with the other he held little Mara upon his shoulder , she the while clapping her hands and singing merrily , as she saw the Brilliant out on the open blue sea , its white sails looking of a rosy purple in the evening light , careering gayly homeward . 
As to little Mara , she had run down to the beach , and stood so near the sea , that every dash of the tide-wave forced her little feet to tread an inch backward , stretching out her hands eagerly toward the schooner , which was standing straight toward the small wharf , not far from their door . 
And now they are come nearer , and Moses shouts and dances on the deck , and the Captain and Mrs. Pennel come running from the house down to the shore , and a few minutes more , and all are landed safe and sound , and little Mara is carried up to the house in her grandfather 's arms , while Captain Kittridge stops to have a few moments ' gossip with Ben Halliday and Tom Scranton before they go to their own resting-places . 
Meanwhile Moses loses not a moment in boasting of his heroic exploits to Mara . 
`` Oh , Mara ! 
said Mara , pitifully . 
And , Mara , we caught a great shark . '' 
Is n't he dangerous ? '' 
We served him out , I tell you . 
He 'll never eat any more people , I tell you , the old wretch ! '' 
`` But , poor shark , it is n't his fault that he eats people . 
He was madeso , '' said Mara , unconsciously touching a deep theological mystery . 
`` Well , I do n't know but he was , '' said Moses ; `` but sharks that wecatch never eat any more , I 'll bet you . '' 
said Mara , the tears actually starting in her eyes . 
Mara was nettled at this speech . 
`` Well , so my little girl is glad grandfather 's come , '' he said , lifting her fondly in his arms , and putting her golden head under his coat , as he had been wont to do from infancy ; `` grandpa thought a great deal about his little Mara . '' 
It was a merry meal , however , when they all sat down to the tea-table once more , and Mara by her grandfather 's side , who often stopped what he was saying to stroke her head fondly . 
Gradually , little Mara quieted herself with listening to and admiring him . 
It is not comfortable to have any heart-quarrel with one 's cherished idol , and everything of the feminine nature , therefore , can speedily find fifty good reasons for seeing one 's self in the wrong and one 's graven image in the right ; and little Mara soon had said to herself , without words , that , of course , Moses could n't be expected to think as much of her as she of him . 
`` But , '' said Mara , blushing and looking very eagerly at Mr. Sewell , `` Moses has read a great deal . 
`` Yes , indeed , '' said Mara , her eyes kindling ; `` I have read them a great deal since Moses went away -- them and the Bible . '' 
Mara did not dare to name her new-found treasure -- there was something so mysterious about that , that she could not venture to produce it , except on the score of extreme intimacy . 
`` Come , sit by me , little Mara , '' said the minister , putting out his hand ; `` you and I must be friends , I see . '' 
`` Yes , sir , '' said Mara , blushing in a very guilty way . 
I should like to have done that , '' said little Mara , her eyes blazing out with a kind of starry light which they had when she was excited . 
said Mara , instinctively shuddering . 
Mara 's eyes looked eagerly attentive . 
`` Thank you , sir , '' said Mara ; `` I always want to read everything Moses does . '' 
said Mara . 
said Mr. Sewell some time later in the evening , after Moses and Mara were gone to bed . 
`` Now , there 's Mara ! '' 
`` What I was going to say , Emily , '' said her brother , `` was , that I thought it would be a good plan for little Mara to come sometimes with Moses ; and then , by observing her more particularly , you might be of use to her ; her little , active mind needs good practical guidance like yours . '' 
The poor little soul had mentally resolved to make Mara the heiress of all the skill and knowledge of the arts by which she had been enabled to consummate these marvels . 
Just about the time that Miss Emily came to this resolution , had she been clairvoyant , she might have seen Mara sitting very quietly , busy in the solitude of her own room with a little sprig of partridge-berry before her , whose round green leaves and brilliant scarlet berries she had been for hours trying to imitate , as appeared from the scattered sketches and fragments around her . 
`` Why , Mara , did youdo these ? '' 
Mara flushed up at being praised by Moses , but heaved a deep sigh as she looked back . 
`` Yes , grandmother , '' said Mara , `` you ought to see how strong his arms are ; I believe he will be like Samson one of these days if he keeps on . '' 
Mara leaned dreamily over the side of the boat , and drew her little hands through the waters as they rippled along to the swift oars ' strokes , and she saw as the waves broke , and divided and shivered around the boat , a hundred little faces , with brown eyes and golden hair , gleaming up through the water , and dancing away over rippling waves , and thought that so the sea-nymphs might look who came up from the coral caves when they ring the knell of drowned people . 
Moses sat opposite to her , with his coat off , and his heavy black curls more wavy and glossy than ever , as the exercise made them damp with perspiration . 
Moses had subsided a little from the glorious heights on which he seemed to be in the first flush of his return , and he and Mara , in consequence , were the friends of old time . 
It is true he thought himself quite a man , but the manhood of a boy is only a tiny masquerade , -- a fantastic , dreamy prevision of real manhood . 
It was curious that Mara , who was by all odds the most precociously-developed of the two , never thought of asserting herself a woman ; in fact , she seldom thought of herself at all , but dreamed and pondered of almost everything else . 
And up he went into the gloomy embrace of the old tree , crackling the dead branches , wrenching off handfuls of gray moss , rising higher and higher , every once in a while turning and showing to Mara his glowing face and curly hair through a dusky green frame of boughs , and then mounting again . 
`` I 'm coming to it , '' he kept exclaiming . 
Meanwhile his proceedings seemed to create a sensation among the feathered house-keepers , one of whom rose and sailed screaming away into the air . 
Mara , who stood at the foot of the tree , could not see clearly what was going on , for the thickness of the boughs ; she only heard a great commotion and rattling of the branches , the scream of the birds , and the swooping of their wings , and Moses ' valorous exclamations , as he seemed to be laying about him with a branch which he had broken off . 
Mara stood at the foot of the tree , with her sun-bonnet blown back , her hair streaming , and her little arms upstretched , as if to catch him if he fell . 
she said , as he set foot on the ground . 
said Mara . 
said Moses , impatient at her pertinacity . 
She carefully folded up the idea , and laid it away on the inner shelves of her mind , till she could think more about it . 
Pliable as she was to all outward appearances , the child had her own still , interior world , where all her little notions and opinions stood up crisp and fresh , like flowers that grow in cool , shady places . 
If anybody too rudely assailed a thought or suggestion she put forth , she drew it back again into this quiet inner chamber , and went on . 
Mara , little and unformed as she yet was , belonged to the race of those spirits to whom is deputed the office of the angel in the Apocalypse to whom was given the golden rod which measured the New Jerusalem . 
Infant though she was , she had ever in her hands that invisible measuring rod , which she was laying to the foundations of all actions and thoughts . 
`` I remember , '' said the soft voice of Mara ; `` he said , ` Let not him that putteth on the harness boast as him that putteth it off . ' '' 
`` Good for you , Mara , '' said Miss Roxy ; `` if some other folks read their Bibles as much as you do , they 'd know more . '' 
Between Moses and Miss Roxy there had always been a state of sub-acute warfare since the days of his first arrival , she regarding him as an unhopeful interloper , and he regarding her as a grim-visaged , interfering gnome , whom he disliked with all the intense , unreasoning antipathy of childhood . 
`` I hate that old woman , '' he said to Mara , as he flung out of the door . 
said Mara , who never could comprehend hating anybody . 
Mara had sufficient instinctive insight into the feminine rôle in the domestic concert not to adventure a direct argument just now in favor of her friends , and therefore she proposed that they should sit down together under a cedar hard by , and look over the first lesson . 
Mara heaved a sort of sigh . 
She wished she had been invited to share this glorious race ; but she looked on admiring when Moses read , in a loud voice , `` Penna , pennæ , pennæ , pennam , '' & c. `` There now , I believe I 've got it , '' he said , handing Mara the book ; and he was perfectly astonished to find that , with the book withdrawn , he boggled , and blundered , and stumbled ingloriously . 
In vain Mara softly prompted , and looked at him with pitiful eyes as he grew red in the face with his efforts to remember . 
he said , with an angry flush , snatching back the book ; `` it 's more trouble than it 's worth . '' 
Again he began the repetition , saying it very loud and plain ; he said it over and over till his mind wandered far out to sea , and while his tongue repeated `` penna , pennæ , '' he was counting the white sails of the fishing-smacks , and thinking of pulling up codfish at the Banks . 
`` There now , Mara , try me , '' he said , and handed her the book again ; `` I 'm sure I mustknow it now . '' 
He thought it must be Mara 's fault ; she did n't read right , or she told him just as he was going to say it , or she did n't tell him right ; or was he a fool ? 
or had he lost his senses ? 
Long before Moses had learned the first declension , Mara knew it by heart ; for her intense anxiety for him , and the eagerness and zeal with which she listened for each termination , fixed them in her mind . 
Besides , she was naturally of a more quiet and scholar-like turn than he , -- more intellectually developed . 
It was a fine frosty , November morning , when he rowed Mara across the bay in a little boat to recite his first lesson to Mr. Sewell . 
Miss Emily had a dim idea that she was to do something for Mara in her own department , while Moses was reciting his lesson ; and therefore producing a large sampler , displaying every form and variety of marking-stitch , she began questioning the little girl , in a low tone , as to her proficiency in that useful accomplishment . 
`` I heard Moses say them so often , '' said Mara , in an apologetic manner , `` I could n't help learning them . '' 
Mara 's face brightened , and Miss Emily looked with a puzzled air at her brother . 
`` So , '' she said , when the children had gone home , `` I thought you wanted me to take Mara under my care . 
Mara 's opinion in their mutual studies began to assume a value in his eyes that her opinions on other subjects had never done , and she saw and felt , with a secret gratification , that she was becoming more to him through their mutual pursuit . 
His active , daring temperament little inclined him to patient , quiet study . 
For anything that could be done by two hands , he was always ready ; but to hold hands still and work silently in the inner forces , was to him a species of undertaking that seemed against his very nature ; but then he would do it -- he would not disgrace himself before Mr. Sewell , and let a girl younger than himself outdo him . 
Mara entered into all these things readily , and was too happy to make herself useful in hemming the sails . 
he said , when the little thing skimmed down prosperously into the sea and floated gayly on the waters -- `` when I 'm a man , I 'll have a big ship ; I 'll build her , and launch her , and command her , all myself ; and I 'll give you and Sally both a passage in it , and we 'll go off to the East Indies -- we 'll sail round the world ! '' 
`` Call her the Ariel , '' said Mara . 
`` Why , '' said Sally , `` Mara read us a story about a ship that was wrecked , and a spirit called Ariel , that sang a song about the drowned mariners . '' 
Mara gave a shy , apprehensive glance at Moses , to see if this allusion called up any painful recollections . 
`` Why did n't you ever show me that story , Mara ? '' 
Mara colored and hesitated ; the real reason she dared not say . 
`` Why , she read it to father and me down by the cove , '' said Sally , `` the afternoon that you came home from the Banks ; I remember how we saw you coming in ; do n't you , Mara ? '' 
`` I 've got it at home , '' said Mara , in a faint voice ; `` I 'll show it to you , if you want to see it ; there are such beautiful things in it . '' 
That evening , as Moses sat busy , making some alterations in his darling schooner , Mara produced her treasure , and read and explained to him the story . 
He listened with interest , though without any of the extreme feeling which Mara had thought possible , and even interrupted her once in the middle of the celebrated -- `` Full fathom five thy father lies , '' She lay and thought about him hours , that night , after she had gone to bed ; and he lay and thought about a new way of disposing a pulley for raising a sail , which he determined to try the effect of early in the morning . 
Here for a season we leave both our child friends , and when ten years have passed over their heads , -- when Moses shall be twenty , and Mara seventeen , -- we will return again to tell their story , for then there will be one to tell . 
Let us suppose in the interval , how Moses and Mara read Virgil with the minister , and how Mara works a shepherdess with Miss Emily , which astonishes the neighborhood , -- but how by herself she learns , after divers trials , to paint partridge , and checkerberry , and trailing arbutus , -- how Moses makes better and better ships , and Sally grows up a handsome girl , and goes up to Brunswick to the high school , -- how Captain Kittridge tells stories , and Miss Roxy and Miss Ruey nurse and cut and make and mend , for the still rising generation , -- how there are quiltings and tea-drinkings and prayer-meetings and Sunday sermons , -- how Zephaniah and Mary Pennel grow old gradually and graciously , as the sun rises and sets , and the eternal silver tide rises and falls around our little gem , Orr 's Island . 
`` Why , Mis ' Kittridge , '' said the Captain , `` Sally 's gone out more 'n an hour ago , and I expect she 's gone down to Pennel 's to see Mara ; 'cause , you know , she come home from Portland to-day . '' 
`` I do wish you would n't talk in that way before Sally , father , for her head is full of all sorts of vanity now ; and as to Mara , I never did see a more slack-twisted , flimsy thing than she 's grown up to be . 
But as to Mara , what does she do ? 
Their work is to be putty , and that ar 's Mara 's sphere . 
But we ha 'n' t spared nothin ' for Sally ; and when nothin ' would do but Mara must be sent to Miss Plucher 's school over in Portland , why , I sent Sally too -- for all she 's our seventh child , and Pennel has n't but the one . '' 
`` Well , he 's settin ' up on his own account , I guess . 
They did talk o ' giving him college eddication ; but he was so unstiddy , there were n't no use in trying . 
By a table at the sea-looking window sits our little Mara , now grown to the maturity of eighteen summers , but retaining still unmistakable signs of identity with the little golden-haired , dreamy , excitable , fanciful `` Pearl '' of Orr 's Island . 
She is not quite of a middle height , with something beautiful and childlike about the moulding of her delicate form . 
We still see those sad , wistful , hazel eyes , over which the lids droop with a dreamy languor , and whose dark lustre contrasts singularly with the golden hue of the abundant hair which waves in a thousand rippling undulations around her face . 
The impression she produces is not that of paleness , though there is no color in her cheek ; but her complexion has everywhere that delicate pink tinting which one sees in healthy infants , and with the least emotion brightens into a fluttering bloom . 
Such a bloom is on her cheek at this moment , as she is working away , copying a bunch of scarlet rock-columbine which is in a wine-glass of water before her ; every few moments stopping and holding her work at a distance , to contemplate its effect . 
At this moment there steps behind her chair a tall , lithe figure , a face with a rich Spanish complexion , large black eyes , glowing cheeks , marked eyebrows , and lustrous black hair , arranged in shining braids around her head . 
She had a well-formed mouth , but rather large , and a frank laugh which showed all her teeth sound -- and a fortunate sight it was , considering that they were white and even as pearls ; and the hand that she laid upon Mara 's at this moment , though twice as large as that of the little artist , was yet in harmony with her vigorous , finely developed figure . 
said Mara . 
`` Now , '' pursued Mara , in a tone of lamentation , `` I could no more get into a carriage and drive to Brunswick as you can , than I could fly . 
`` Oh , Mara , Mara , '' said Sally , laughing till the tears rolled down her cheeks , `` what do youever go a-shopping for ? 
But after all , Mara , I ca n't trim a bonnet as you can , and I ca n't come up to your embroidery , nor your lace-work , nor I ca n't draw and paint as you can , and I ca n't sing like you ; and then as to all those things you talk with Mr. Sewell about , why they 're beyond my depth , -- that 's all I 've got to say . 
If a fellow likes me , he gives me a quince , or a big apple ; but , then , Mara , there a 'n' t any fellows round here that are fit to speak to . '' 
said Mara , with a quiet kind of arch drollery which suffused her face , as she bent over her painting . 
said Mara , continuing her painting . 
By the by , Mara , Miss Roxy told me Sunday that Moses was coming down from Umbagog this week . '' 
`` Yes , he is , '' said Mara ; `` we are looking for him every day . '' 
`` It is three years , '' said Mara . 
`` Not very , '' said Mara ; `` in fact , almost never ; and when he does there is so little in his letters . '' 
`` Well , I tell you , Mara , you must not expect fellows to write as girls can . 
Mara made no reply to this , but went on very intently with her painting . 
Wehave introduced Mara to our readers as she appears in her seventeenth year , at the time when she is expecting the return of Moses as a young man of twenty ; but we can not do justice to the feelings which are roused in her heart by this expectation , without giving a chapter or two to tracing the history of Moses since we left him as a boy commencing the study of the Latin grammar with Mr. Sewell . 
We left him a boy beginning Latin with Mr. Sewell in company with the little Mara . 
`` What shall we do with him , father ? '' 
`` He ca n't be governed like a child , and he wo n't govern himself like a man . '' 
This would accomplish two purposes , as they hoped , -- it would be a mortification and defeat to him , -- a revenge which they coveted ; and it would , they thought , insure his silence and complicity for the strongest reasons . 
When Mara would expostulate with him about this , he would break out upon her with a fierce irritation . 
Was he always going to be tied to a girl 's apron-string ? 
He was tired of study , and tired of old Sewell , whom he declared an old granny in a white wig , who knew nothing of the world . 
Mara 's life during this time was intensely wearing . 
Ever since that dream of babyhood , when the vision of a pale mother had led the beautiful boy to her arms , Mara had accepted him as something exclusively her own , with an intensity of ownership that seemed almost to merge her personal identity with his . 
She felt , and saw , and enjoyed , and suffered in him , and yet was conscious of a higher nature in herself , by which unwillingly he was often judged and condemned . 
His faults affected her with a kind of guilty pain , as if they were her own ; his sins were borne bleeding in her heart in silence , and with a jealous watchfulness to hide them from every eye but hers . 
She busied herself day and night interceding and making excuses for him , first to her own sensitive moral nature , and then with everybody around , for with one or another he was coming into constant collision . 
Mara believed in Moses ' future as she did in her own existence . 
He was going to do something great and good , -- that she was certain of . 
He would be a splendid man ! 
Nobody , she thought , knew him as she did ; nobody could know how good and generous he was sometimes , and how frankly he would confess his faults , and what noble aspirations he had ! 
Mara rose , and undrawing her curtain , saw three men standing before the house , and saw Moses come out and join them . 
Itwas well for Mara that so much of her life had been passed in wild forest rambles . 
Mara had often rambled for whole solitary days in this lonely wood , and knew all its rocks and dells the whole three miles to the long bridge at the other end of the island . 
Mara stopped with a beating heart as she saw the company making for the schooner . 
The tide is high ; will they go on board and sail away with him where she can not follow ? 
The red flame danced and leaped through the green fuel , and leaping upward in tongues of flame , cast ruddy bronze reflections on the old pine-trees with their long branches waving with beards of white moss , -- and by the firelight Mara could see two men in sailor 's dress with pistols in their belts , and the man Atkinson , whom she had recollected as having seen once or twice at her grandfather 's . 
As Mara watched his demeanor with Moses , she could think only of a loathsome black snake that she had once seen in those solitary rocks ; -- she felt as if his handsome but evil eye were charming him with an evil charm to his destruction . 
`` Well , Mo , my boy , '' she heard him say , -- slapping Moses on the shoulder , -- `` this is something like . 
We 'll have a ` tempus , ' as the college fellows say , -- put down the clams to roast , and I 'll mix the punch , '' he said , setting over the fire a tea-kettle which they brought from the ship . 
Mara listened with anxiety and horror to a conversation such as she never heard or conceived before . 
Mara , horrified and shocked as she was , did not , however , lose that intense and alert presence of mind , natural to persons in whom there is moral strength , however delicate be their physical frame . 
And `` hark ye , '' said one of them , `` Moses , they say old Pennel has lots of dollars in that old sea-chest of his ` n . 
It would be a kindness to him to invest them for him in an adventure . '' 
Moses answered with a streak of the boy innocence which often remains under the tramping of evil men , like ribbons of green turf in the middle of roads : -- `` You do n't know Father Pennel , -- why , he 'd no more come into it than '' -- A perfect roar of laughter cut short this declaration , and Atkinson , slapping Moses on the back , said , -- `` By -- , Mo ! 
Pennel 's money can be invested without asking him . '' 
`` Why , he keeps it locked , '' said Moses . 
Mara almost screamed in her ecstasy , but she had sense enough to hold her breath . 
`` You 'd better take care how you joke with me , '' said Moses , with that look of gloomy determination which Mara was quite familiar with of old . 
Mara was comforted to see that he declined drinking , -- that he looked gloomy and thoughtful , in spite of the jokes of his companions ; but she trembled to see , by the following conversation , how Atkinson was skilfully and prudently making apparent to Moses the extent to which he had him in his power . 
He seemed to Mara like an ugly spider skilfully weaving his web around a fly . 
Mara would know it . 
It was a strong indication of that repressed , considerate habit of mind which love had wrought in the child , that when Mara heard the boy 's sobs rising in the stillness , she did not , as she wished to , rush out and throw her arms around his neck and try to comfort him . 
She must not let him know that she had discovered his secret by stealing after him thus in the night shadows . 
She knew how nervously he had resented even the compassionate glances she had cast upon him in his restless , turbid intervals during the past few weeks , and the fierceness with which he had replied to a few timid inquiries . 
No , -- though her heart was breaking for him , it was a shrewd , wise little heart , and resolved not to spoil all by yielding to its first untaught impulses . 
Mara could see all the houses on Harpswell Neck and the white church as clear as in the daylight . 
Mara listened a moment , -- no sound : he had gone to bed then . 
said the little dark shadow to herself , as she stole up the stairs past his room as guiltily as if she were the sinner . 
said Mara , intent on the sole thought in her heart . 
Mara made a feint of eating what her grandmother with fond officiousness would put before her , and then rising up she put on her sun-bonnet and started down toward the cove to find her old friend . 
Mara began her story , and went through with it in a rapid and agitated manner ; and the good Captain listened in a fidgety state of interest , occasionally relieving his mind by interjecting `` Do tell now ! '' 
`` Do n't you be a mite worried , Mara , '' he said . 
I 'm afraid to have you , '' said Mara , apprehensively . 
said Mara , fearfully . 
said Mara . 
He knows as well as I that there is times when chaps must be seen to , and no remarks made . 
said Mara , in a faltering voice . 
`` Wal ' , they did consid ` able , '' said the Captain ; -- then seeing the trembling of Mara 's lip , he added , -- `` Ef you could a-found this ` ere out any other way , it 's most a pity you 'd a-heard him ; 'cause he would n't never have let out afore you . 
I expect he 'll come all right , and jine the church one of these days ; 'cause there 's old Pennel , he prays , -- fact now , I think there 's consid ` ablein some people 's prayers , and he 's one of the sort . 
This miscellaneous budget of personal experiences and friendly consolation which the good Captain conveyed to Mara may possibly make you laugh , my reader , but the good , ropy brown man was doing his best to console his little friend ; and as Mara looked at him he was almost glorified in her eyes -- he had power to save Moses , and he would do it . 
She went home to dinner that day with her heart considerably lightened . 
She refrained , in a guilty way , from even looking at Moses , who was gloomy and moody . 
Mara had from nature a good endowment of that kind of innocent hypocrisy which is needed as a staple in the lives of women who bridge a thousand awful chasms with smiling , unconscious looks , and walk , singing and scattering flowers , over abysses of fear , while their hearts are dying within them . 
She talked more volubly than was her wont with Mrs. Pennel , and with her old grandfather ; she laughed and seemed in more than usual spirits , and only once did she look up and catch the gloomy eye of Moses . 
They fell under her clear glance , and he made a rapid , impatient movement , as if it hurt him to be looked at . 
Mara was relieved , as he flung out of the house after dinner , to see the long , dry figure of Captain Kittridge coming up and seizing Moses by the button . 
In less than a fortnight , it was settled Moses was to sail for China , and Mara was deep in the preparations for his outfit . 
Now it seemed to her a deliverance for him , and she worked with a cheerful alacrity , which seemed to Moses was more than was proper , considering hewas going away . 
For Moses , like many others of his sex , boy or man , had quietly settled in his own mind that the whole love of Mara 's heart was to be his , to have and to hold , to use and to draw on , when and as he liked . 
He reckoned on it as a sort of inexhaustible , uncounted treasure that was his own peculiar right and property , and therefore he felt abused at what he supposed was a disclosure of some deficiency on her part . 
`` You seem to be very glad to be rid of me , '' he said to her in a bitter tone one day , as she was earnestly busy in her preparations . 
Now the fact was , that Moses had been assiduously making himself disagreeable to Mara for the fortnight past , by all sorts of unkind sayings and doings ; and he knew it too ; yet he felt a right to feel very much abused at the thought that she could possibly want him to be going . 
If she had been utterly desolate about it , and torn her hair and sobbed and wailed , he would have asked what she couldbe crying about , and begged not to be bored with scenes ; but as it was , this cheerful composure was quite unfeeling . 
He could not say , `` Mara , I have done wrong , '' though he every day meant to do it , and sometimes sat an hour in her presence , feeling murky and stony , as if possessed by a dumb spirit -- then he would get up and fling stormily out of the house . 
Poor Mara wondered if he really would go without one kind word . 
She thought of all the years they had been together , and how he had been her only thought and love . 
At last came the evening before his parting ; the sea-chest was all made up and packed ; and Mara 's fingers had been busy with everything , from more substantial garments down to all those little comforts and nameless conveniences that only a woman knows how to improvise . 
Mara thought certainly she should get a few kind words as Moses looked it over . 
Mara 's busy fingers quickly replaced it , and Moses was annoyed at the tear that fell on the button . 
He took Mara in his arms and kissed her ; he told her she was his best friend , his good angel , and that he was not worthy to kiss the hem of her garment ; but the next day , when he thought of writing a letter to her , he did n't , and the good mood passed away . 
Now and then , through some sailing ship , came missives which seemed to Mara altogether colder and more unsatisfactory than they would have done could she have appreciated the difference between a boy and a girl in power of epistolary expression ; for the power of really representing one 's heart on paper , which is one of the first spring flowers of early womanhood , is the latest blossom on the slow growing tree of manhood . 
Mara found one or two opportunities of writing to Moses ; but her letters were timid and constrained by a sort of frosty , discouraged sense of loneliness ; and Moses , though he knew he had no earthly right to expect this to be otherwise , took upon him to feel as an abused individual , whom nobody loved -- whose way in the world was destined to be lonely and desolate . 
So when , at the end of three years , he arrived suddenly at Brunswick in the beginning of winter , and came all burning with impatience to the home at Orr 's Island , and found that Mara had gone to Boston on a visit , he resented it as a personal slight . 
He might have inquired why she should expect him , and whether her whole life was to be spent in looking out of the window to watch for him . 
He might have remembered that he had warned her of his approach by no letter . 
`` Mara did n't care for him -- she had forgotten all about him -- she was having a good time in Boston , just as likely as not with some train of admirers , and he had been tossing on the stormy ocean , and she had thought nothing of it . '' 
How many things he had meant to say ! 
He had never felt so good and so affectionate . 
He would have confessed all the sins of his life to her , and asked her pardon -- and she was n't there ! 
Mrs. Pennel suggested that he might go to Boston after her . 
No , he was not going to do that . 
He would not intrude on her pleasures with the memory of a rough , hard-working sailor . 
When Mara was informed by a letter from Mrs. Pennel , expressed in the few brief words in which that good woman generally embodied her epistolary communications , that Moses had been at home , and gone to Umbagog without seeing her , she felt at her heart only a little closer stricture of a cold quiet pain , which had become a habit of her inner life . 
`` He did not love her -- he was cold and selfish , '' said the inner voice . 
And faintly she pleaded , in answer , `` He is a man -- he has seen the world -- and has so much to do and think of , no wonder . '' 
Wehave in the last three chapters brought up the history of our characters to the time when our story opens , when Mara and Sally Kittridge were discussing the expected return of Moses . 
Sally was persuaded by Mara to stay and spend the night with her , and did so without much fear of what her mother would say when she returned ; for though Mrs. Kittridge still made bustling demonstrations of authority , it was quite evident to every one that the handsome grown-up girl had got the sceptre into her own hands , and was reigning in the full confidence of being , in one way or another , able to bring her mother into all her views . 
`` He did n't know me at all , if you 'll believe it , '' said Sally . 
`` I 'm not in the least surprised , '' said Mara ; `` you 're grown so and altered . '' 
`` Well , now , you 'd hardly know him , Mara , '' said Sally . 
`` He is a man -- a real man ; everything about him is different ; he holds up his head in such a proud way . 
Well , he always did that when he was a boy ; but when he speaks , he has such a deep voice ! 
said Mara ; `` at least , do you think hewould think so ? '' 
`` Why , Mara , you and I have been together so much , I ca n't tell . 
`` I think sometimes he has quite forgotten about me , '' said Mara . 
`` Do you know , Mara , '' said Sally , `` I always thought Moses was hateful in his treatment of you ? 
With which threat of vengeance on her mind Sally Kittridge fell asleep , while Mara lay awake pondering , -- wondering if Moses would come to-morrow , and what he would be like if he did come . 
The next morning , as the two girls were wiping breakfast dishes in a room adjoining the kitchen , a step was heard on the kitchen-floor , and the first that Mara knew she found herself lifted from the floor in the arms of a tall dark-eyed young man , who was kissing her just as if he had a right to . 
Her kissed her over and over , and then holding her off at arm 's length , said , `` Why , Mara , you have grown to be a beauty ! '' 
`` And what was she , I 'd like to know , when you went away , Mr. Moses ? '' 
`` She was handsome when you were only a great ugly boy . '' 
`` For your intimation that I am a handsome young man now , '' said Moses , sitting with his arm around Mara , and her hand in his . 
Mara felt a peculiar dreamy sense of strangeness at this brother who was not a brother , -- this Moses so different from the one she had known . 
The very tone of his voice , which when he left had the uncertain cracked notes which indicate the unformed man , were now mellowed and settled . 
Mara regarded him shyly as he talked , blushed uneasily , and drew away from his arm around her , as if this handsome , self-confident young man were being too familiar . 
So , though Sally had scolded and flounced about Moses ' inattention to Mara in advance , she contrived even in this first interview to keep him talking with nobody but herself ; -- not because she wanted to draw him from Mara , or meant to ; not because she cared a pin for him ; but because it was her nature as a frisky young cat . 
And Moses let himself be drawn , between bantering and contradicting , and jest and earnest , at some moments almost to forget that Mara was in the room . 
Once , as they were talking , Moses looked up and saw Mara 's head , as a stray sunbeam falling upon the golden hair seemed to make a halo around her face . 
Her large eyes were fixed upon him with an expression so intense and penetrative , that he felt a sort of wincing uneasiness . 
`` What makes you look at me so , Mara ? '' 
he said , suddenly . 
`` You 'll be back to tea , Moses , '' said Mara , `` will you not ? 
`` Now , confound it all , '' said Moses , `` I care more for our little Mara than a dozen of her ; and what have I been fooling all this time for ? 
-- now Mara will think I do n't love her . '' 
It is flattering , after all , to feel one 's power over a susceptible nature ; and Moses , remembering how entirely and devotedly Mara had loved him all through childhood , never doubted but he was the sole possessor of uncounted treasure in her heart , which he could develop at his leisure and use as he pleased . 
Our little Mara was tender , self-devoting , humble , and religious , but she was woman after all to the tips of her fingers , -- quick to feel slights , and determined , with the intensest determination , that no man should wrest from her one of those few humble rights and privileges , which Nature allows to woman . 
When he did not come to tea nor long after , and Mrs. Pennel and her grandfather wondered , she laughed , and said gayly , -- `` Oh , he knows he 'll have time enough to see me.Sally seems more like a stranger . '' 
But when Moses came home after moonrise , determined to go and console Mara for his absence , he was surprised to hear the sound of a rapid and pleasant conversation , in which a masculine and feminine voice were intermingled in a lively duet . 
Coming a little nearer , he saw Mara sitting knitting in the door-way , and a very good-looking young man seated on a stone at her feet , with his straw hat flung on the ground , while he was looking up into her face , as young men often do into pretty faces seen by moonlight . 
Mara rose and introduced Mr. Adams of Boston to Mr. Moses Pennel . 
Moses measured the young man with his eye as if he could have shot him with a good will . 
And his temper was not at all bettered as he observed that he had the easy air of a man of fashion and culture , and learned by a few moments of the succeeding conversation , that the acquaintance had commenced during Mara 's winter visit to Boston . 
`` I was staying a day or two at Mr. Sewell 's , '' he said , carelessly , `` and the night was so fine I could n't resist the temptation to row over . '' 
In the pauses , Mara inquired , prettily , how he found the Kittridges , and reproved him playfully for staying , in despite of his promise to come home . 
Moses answered with an effort to appear easy and playful , that there was no reason , it appeared , to hurry on her account , since she had been so pleasantly engaged . 
`` That is true , '' said Mara , quietly ; `` but then grandpapa and grandmamma expected you , and they have gone to bed , as you know they always do after tea . '' 
Mr. Adams rose to go also , and Moses might have felt in a more Christian frame of mind , had he listened to the last words of the conversation between him and Mara . 
`` That depends on circumstances , '' he replied . 
`` As a friend -- yes , '' said Mara ; `` I shall always be happy to see you . '' 
`` No more , '' replied Mara . 
`` I had hoped , '' he said , `` that you would reconsider . '' 
`` Well , God bless you , then , Miss Lincoln , '' he said , and was gone . 
Mara stood in the door-way and saw him loosen his boat from its moorings and float off in the moonlight , with a long train of silver sparkles behind . 
he said . 
`` He is not a puppy , but a very fine young man , '' said Mara . 
`` We were , '' said Mara , quietly . 
Now Mara saw plainly enough that Moses was displeased and hurt , and had it been in the days of her fourteenth summer , she would have thrown her arms around his neck , and said , `` Moses , I do n't care a fig for that man , and I love you better than all the world . '' 
Mara was as near being a saint as human dust ever is ; but -- she was a woman saint ; and therefore may be excused for a little gentle vindictiveness . 
Mara was resolved upon that . 
He might go where he liked -- flirt with whom he liked -- come back as late as he pleased -- never would she , by word or look , give him reason to think she cared . 
Mosespassed rather a restless and uneasy night on his return to the home-roof which had sheltered his childhood . 
All his life past , and all his life expected , seemed to boil and seethe and ferment in his thoughts , and to go round and round in never-ceasing circles before him . 
Now the chief treasure of his heart had always been his little sister Mara , chiefly from his conviction that he was the one absorbing thought and love of her heart . 
He had never figured life to himself otherwise than with Mara at his side , his unquestioning , devoted friend . 
Of course he and his plans , his ways and wants , would always be in the future , as they always had been , her sole thought . 
It had never occurred to Moses how or in what capacity he should always stand banker to the whole wealth of love that there was in Mara 's heart , and what provision he should make on his part for returning this incalculable debt . 
But the interview of this evening had raised a new thought in his mind . 
Mara , as he saw that day , was no longer a little girl in a pink sun-bonnet . 
He felt in himself -- in the experience of that one day -- that there was something subtle and veiled about her , which set the imagination at work ; that the wistful , plaintive expression of her dark eyes , and a thousand little shy and tremulous movements of her face , affected him more than the most brilliant of Sally Kittridge 's sprightly sallies . 
Yes , there would be people falling in love with her fast enough , he thought even here , where she is as secluded as a pearl in an oyster-shell . 
Mara would be absorbed in some one else , would love some one else , as he knew she could , with heart and soul and mind and strength . 
When he thought of this , it affected him much as it would if one were turned out of a warm , smiling apartment into a bleak December storm . 
What should he do , if that treasure which he had taken most for granted in all his valuations of life should suddenly be found to belong to another ? 
Was Mara in love with him , or going to be ? 
As he thought of it , there arose in his mind a picture of Mara , with her golden hair and plaintive eyes and little white hands , reigning as a fairy queen in the captain 's cabin , with a sort of wish to carry her off and make sure that no one else ever should get her from him . 
It was one of the recreations of her quiet , monotonous life to build aircastles , which she furnished regardless of expense , and in which she set up at house-keeping her various friends and acquaintances , and she had always been bent on weaving a romance on the history of Mara and Moses Pennel . 
It was little busy Miss Emily who persuaded honest Zephaniah and Mary Pennel that talents such as Mara 's ought to be cultivated , and that ended in sending her to Miss Plucher 's school in Portland . 
Mara had obediently and patiently done all these things ; and solaced herself with copying flowers and birds and landscapes as near as possible like nature , as a recreation from these more dignified toils . 
Miss Emily also had been the means of getting Mara invited to Boston , where she saw some really polished society , and gained as much knowledge of the forms of artificial life as a nature so wholly and strongly individual could obtain . 
So little Miss Emily regarded Mara as her godchild , and was intent on finishing her up into a romance in real life , of which a handsome young man , who had been washed ashore in a shipwreck , should be the hero . 
Moses and Mara had rambled and played here many hours of their childhood , amusing themselves with catching crabs and young lobsters and various little fish for these rocky aquariums , and then studying at their leisure their various ways . 
Now he had come hither a man , to learn the secret of his life . 
As he passed by the open window he caught a glimpse of Mara sewing . 
The foolish boy did not know the quick wits of a girl , and that all the while that he had supposed himself so sly , and been holding his breath to observe , Mara had been perfectly cognizant of his presence , and had been schooling herself to look as unconscious and natural as possible . 
`` Why , then you 've had no dinner , poor boy , '' said Mara , rising suddenly . 
And Moses threw himself into a chair , and began abstractedly snipping a piece of tape with Mara 's very best scissors . 
`` If you please , sir , do n't demolish that ; I was going to stay one of your collars with it , '' said Mara . 
`` I hope Mr. Sewell did n't say anything to make you look so very gloomy , '' said Mara . 
`` Never thought to ask her why she did n't die , '' said Mara ; `` but I presume she has the best of reasons for living . '' 
`` You seem to be in a charitable frame of mind , '' said Mara . 
said Mara . 
`` Well , supposing so , '' said Mara , `` for argument 's sake , what would you buy with it ? '' 
said Mara , looking quite cool . 
said Mara . 
I have n't done it yet , '' said Mara ; `` but now , really , I must go and set the suppertable when I have put these things away , '' -- and Mara gathered an armful of things together , and tripped singing up-stairs , and arranged them in the drawer of Moses ' room . 
For on the night that he returned and found Mara conversing with a stranger , the suspicion arose in his mind that somehow Mara might be particularly interested in him , -- and instead of asking her , which anybody might consider the most feasible step in the case , he asked Sally Kittridge . 
Was Mara engaged to him ? 
-- What would he give to know ? 
-- Why did n't he ask Mara ? 
-- Did he expect her to reveal her friend 's secrets ? 
Moses therefore pursued the line of tactics for such cases made and provided , and strove to awaken jealousy in Mara by paying marked and violent attentions to Sally . 
He went there evening after evening , leaving Mara to sit alone at home . 
He made secrets with her , and alluded to them before Mara . 
He proposed calling his new vessel the Sally Kittridge ; but whether all these things made Mara jealous or not , he could never determine . 
Mara had no peculiar gift for acting , except in this one point ; but here all the vitality of nature rallied to her support , and enabled her to preserve an air of the most unperceiving serenity . 
Whatever may have been the result of this state of things in regard to Mara , it is certain that Moses succeeded in convincing the common fame of that district that he and Sally were destined for each other , and the thing was regularly discussed at quilting frolics and tea-drinkings around , much to Miss Emily 's disgust and Aunt Roxy 's grave satisfaction , who declared that `` Mara was altogether too good for Moses Pennel , but Sally Kittridge would make him stand round , '' -- by which expression she was understood to intimate that Sally had in her the rudiments of the same kind of domestic discipline which had operated so favorably in the case of Captain Kittridge . 
These things , of course , had come to Mara 's ears . 
Mara among the rest thought it quite likely that this thing was yet to be . 
So Mara , in her zeal of self-discipline , pushed on matters ; invited Sally to tea to meet Moses ; and when she came , left them alone together while she busied herself in hospitable cares . 
She sent Moses with errands and commissions to Sally , which he was sure to improve into protracted visits ; and in short , no young match-maker ever showed more good-will to forward the union of two chosen friends than Mara showed to unite Moses and Sally . 
So the flirtation went on all summer , like a ship under full sail , with prosperous breezes ; and Mara , in the many hours that her two best friends were together , tried heroically to persuade herself that she was not unhappy . 
Nobody could have conjectured from Mara 's calm , gentle cheerfulness of demeanor , that any sorrow lay at the bottom of her heart ; she would not have owned it to herself . 
Such had been the history of the affection of Mara for Moses . 
He would feign to have quarrelled with Sally , that he might detect whether Mara would betray some gladness ; but she only evinced concern and a desire to make up the difficulty . 
He would discuss her character and her fitness to make a man happy in matrimony in the style that young gentlemen use who think their happiness a point of great consequence in the creation ; and Mara , always cool , and firm , and sensible , would talk with him in the most maternal style possible , and caution him against trifling with her affections . 
Then again he would be lavish in his praise of Sally 's beauty , vivacity , and energy , and Mara would join with the most apparently unaffected delight . 
Sometimes he ventured , on the other side , to rally her on some future husband , and predict the days when all the attentions which she was daily bestowing on him would be for another ; and here , as everywhere else , he found his little Sphinx perfectly inscrutable . 
And just at this moment Moses is sauntering home from Captain Kittridge 's in company with Sally , for Mara has sent him to bring her to tea with them . 
`` How absurd you always will be talking about that -- why do n't you call it after Mara ? '' 
`` After Mara ? '' 
There 's Mara coming to meet us ; '' and Sally bounded forward to meet Mara with all those demonstrations of extreme delight which young girls are fond of showering on each other . 
`` It 's such a beautiful evening , '' said Mara , `` and we are all in such good spirits about Moses ' ship , and I told him you must come down and hold counsel with us as to what was to be done about the launching -- and the name , you know , that is to be decided on -- are you going to let it be called after you ? '' 
`` She does n't mean what she says , '' said Mara ; `` but I think there are some objections in a young lady 's name being given to a ship . '' 
`` Then I suppose , Mara , '' said Moses , `` that you would not have yours either ? '' 
`` I would be glad to accommodate you in anything butthat , '' said Mara , quietly ; but she added , `` Why need the ship be named for anybody ? 
`` Do n't you remember , '' said Mara , `` one Saturday afternoon , when you and Sally and I launched your little ship down in the cove after you had come home from your first voyage at the Banks . '' 
`` We called that the Ariel , Mara , after that old torn play you were so fond of . 
said Mara . 
Moses ' eyes fell upon Mara as Sally said these words with a sort of sudden earnestness of expression which struck her . 
He was really feeling very much about something , under all the bantering disguise of his demeanor , she said to herself . 
Could it be that he felt unhappy about his prospects with Sally ? 
That careless liveliness of hers might wound him perhaps now , when he felt that he was soon to leave her . 
Mara was conscious herself of a deep undercurrent of sadness as the time approached for the ship to sail that should carry Moses from her , and she could not but think some such feeling must possess her mind . 
Mara fancied that Moses looked sad and preoccupied as they sat down to the tea-table , which Mrs. Pennel had set forth festively , with the best china and the finest table-cloth and the choicest sweetmeats . 
It is a time when he wants sympathy and is grated upon by uncomprehending merriment , and therefore his answers to Sally grew brief and even harsh at times , and Mara sometimes perceived him looking at herself with a singular fixedness of expression , though he withdrew his eyes whenever she turned hers to look on him . 
But then evidently she did not understand him , and Mara felt a little womanly self-pluming on the thought that sheknew him so much better . 
So Mara pressed Sally with the old-times request to stay and sleep with her ; for these two , the only young girls in so lonely a neighborhood , had no means of excitement or dissipation beyond this occasional sleeping together -- by which is meant , of course , lying awake all night talking . 
When they were alone together in their chamber , Sally let down her long black hair , and stood with her back to Mara brushing it . 
Mara sat looking out of the window , where the moon was making a wide sheet of silver-sparkling water . 
`` I 'm sure I have n't thought , '' said Mara . 
`` Sally dear , you often speak in that way , '' said Mara , `` but really and seriously , you do yourself great injustice . 
`` If he did not , '' said Mara , `` why has he sought you so much , and taken every opportunity to be with you ? 
The most practised self-control must fail some time , and Mara 's voice faltered on these last words , and she put her hands over her eyes . 
`` Now , Mara , what a wicked , inconsistent fool I have been ! 
`` I do love him as a dear brother , '' said Mara . 
But , Mara , I have tormented him well -- there 's some comfort in that . '' 
`` It 's no comfort to me , '' said Mara . 
`` I see his heart is set on you -- the happiness of his life depends on you -- and that he is pained and hurt when you give him only cold , trifling words when he needs real true love . 
`` Oh , pshaw , Mara , you do n't know these fellows ; they are only playing games with us . 
said Mara , her large , serious eyes looking into Sally 's . 
`` I ca n't help my eyes ; they will look so , '' said Sally , hiding her face in Mara 's lap with a sort of coquettish consciousness . 
`` Oh , no ; he does not even love me as he once did , when we were children , '' said Mara . 
`` He has admired you very much , Sally , '' said Mara , `` and praised you to me very warmly . 
`` Aunt Roxy has always been prejudiced and unjust to Moses , '' said Mara , her cheeks flushing . 
said Mara , who stood in her white night-dress by the window , with her hair falling in golden waves about her face . 
Come now , '' she added , turning to Mara , `` do n't look so grave and sanctified . 
`` Well , come , '' said Mara , `` we must not sit up all night . '' 
`` I like to hear it , '' said Mara . 
There was another silence , which lasted so long that each girl thought the other asleep , and moved softly , but at a restless movement from Sally , Mara spoke again . 
`` I wanted to ask you , '' said Mara , `` did Moses ever say anything to you about me ? 
said Mara , with increasing interest . 
said Mara . 
`` But , '' said Mara , `` I never can rest easy a moment when I see I am making a person uncomfortable . '' 
Mrs. Pennel and Mara were also up by starlight , busy over the provisions for the ample cold collation that was to be spread in a barn adjoining the scene , -- the materials for which they were packing into baskets covered with nice clean linen cloths , ready for the little sail-boat which lay within a stone 's throw of the door in the brightening dawn , her white sails looking rosy in the advancing light . 
The boat with its white sails flapping was balancing and courtesying up and down on the waters , and in the stern sat Mara ; -- her shining white straw hat trimmed with blue ribbons set off her golden hair and pink shell complexion . 
There was so brisk a breeze that the boat slanted quite to the water 's edge on one side , and Mara leaned over and pensively drew her little pearly hand through the water , and thought of the days when she and Moses took this sail together -- she in her pink sun-bonnet , and he in his round straw hat , with a tin dinner-pail between them ; and now , to-day the ship of her childish dreams was to be launched . 
That launching was something she regarded almost with superstitious awe . 
Such was her thought as she looked down the clear , translucent depths ; but would it have been of any use to try to utter it to anybody ? 
-- to Sally Kittridge , for example , who sat all in a cheerful rustle of bright ribbons beside her , and who would have shown her white teeth all round at such a suggestion , and said , `` Now , Mara , who but you would have thought of that ? '' 
As Mara looked pensively into the water , it seemed to her that every incident of life came up out of its depths to meet her . 
Wal , Moses has got Mara on his arm anyhow ; there ` sa gal worth six-and-twenty of the other . 
Mara 's heart beat fast when the boat touched the shore , and Moses and one or two other young men came to assist in their landing . 
He looked at Sally with a look of frank admiration as she stood there dropping her long black lashes over her bright cheeks , and coquettishly looking out from under them , but she stepped forward with a little energy of movement , and took the offered hand of Tom Hiers , who was gazing at her too with undisguised rapture , and Moses , stepping into the boat , helped Mrs. Pennel on shore , and then took Mara on his arm , looking her over as he did so with a glance far less assured and direct than he had given to Sally . 
`` You wo n't be afraid to climb the ladders , Mara ? '' 
said he . 
Moses ' brow clouded a little , and Mara noticed it . 
Moses thought he did not care for Sally ; he knew that the little hand that was now lying on his arm was the one he wanted , and yet he felt vexed when he saw Sally walk off triumphantly with another . 
Sally , on all former occasions , had shown a marked preference for him , and professed supreme indifference to Tom Hiers . 
`` It 's all well enough , '' he said to himself , and he helped Mara up the ladders with the greatest deference and tenderness . 
Here we are on our ship , Mara , '' he said , as he lifted her over the last barrier and set her down on the deck . 
`` I am too much of a sea-girl to fear on anything that sails in water , '' said Mara with enthusiasm . 
`` Yes , and he has Mara on his arm , '' said Miss Emily ; `` that 's as it should be . 
Mara was leaning on Moses ' arm at the instant the ship began to move , but in the moment of the last dizzy rush she felt his arm go tightly round her , holding her so close that she could hear the beating of his heart . 
He looked like a young sea-king just crowned ; and the fact is the less wonderful , therefore , that Mara felt her heart throb as she looked at him , and that a treacherous throb of the same nature shook the breezy ribbons fluttering over the careless heart of Sally . 
A handsome young sea-captain , treading the deck of his own vessel , is , in his time and place , a prince . 
He looked at Mara , who could certainly not have known what was in her eyes at the moment , -- an expression that made his heart give a great throb , and wonder if he saw aright : but it was gone a moment after , as all gathered around in a knot exchanging congratulations on the fortunate way in which the affair had gone off . 
Moseswas now within a day or two of the time of his sailing , and yet the distance between him and Mara seemed greater than ever . 
Like most shy girls , Mara became more shy the more really she understood the nature of her own feelings . 
So Mara put on her most cheerful and matter-of-fact kind of face , and plunged into the making of shirts and knitting of stockings , and talked of the coming voyage with such a total absence of any concern , that Moses began to think , after all , there could be no depth to her feelings , or that the deeper ones were all absorbed by some one else . 
Mara 's heart beat at these words , but her hypocrisy was well practised . 
`` Oh , as to that , make yourself easy , '' said Mara . 
There was a dash of bitterness in this , which was a rare ingredient in Mara 's conversation . 
said Mara . 
Now Mara knew that this letter was nothing in particular , but she was taken by surprise , and her skin was delicate as peach-blossom , and so she could not help a sudden blush , which rose even to her golden hair , vexed as she was to feel it coming . 
said Mara . 
`` And Ihave no ambition to be confidant , '' said Mara , all her spirit sparkling in her eyes ; `` although when one stands to you in the relation of an only sister , I might be supposed perhaps to feel some interest to be in your confidence . '' 
Mara never looked so pretty in her life , for the whole force of her being was awake , glowing and watchful , to guard passage , door , and window of her soul , that no treacherous hint might escape . 
Had he not just reminded her that he was only an older brother ? 
and what would he think if he knew the truth ? 
said Mara , coming to the door and looking out after him . 
But I do believe in his secret heart he is in love with Mara ; he is in love with some one , I know . 
You love Mara , -- you know you do ; there 's no truth in you , '' she said , rising indignantly . 
There was an embarrassed pause , and then he answered , -- `` Sally , why should I love Mara ? 
Besides , I did want to show you how much better Mara could do than to take you ; besides , I did n't know till lately . 
We have both done wrong , and made dear Mara very unhappy . 
I think you may now go home and have one talk with Mara without witnesses . '' 
What she said of Mara 's loving him filled his eyes with remorseful tears , -- and for the moment he asked himself whether this restless , jealous , exacting desire which he felt to appropriate her whole life and heart to himself , were as really worthy of the name of love as the generous self-devotion with which she had , all her life , made all his interests her own . 
Was he to go to her now and tell her that he loved her , and therefore he had teased and vexed her , -- therefore he had seemed to prefer another before her , -- therefore he had practised and experimented upon her nature ? 
A suspicion rather stole upon him that love which expresses itself principally in making exactions and giving pain is not exactly worthy of the name . 
And yet he had been secretly angry with her all summer for being the very reverse of this ; for her apparent cheerful willingness to see him happy with another ; for the absence of all signs of jealousy , -- all desire of exclusive appropriation . 
It showed , he said to himself , that there was no love ; and now when it dawned on him that this might be the very heroism of self-devotion , he asked himself which was best worthy to be called love . 
`` She did love him , then ! '' 
The thought blazed up through the smouldering embers of thought in his heart like a tongue of flame . 
She loved him ! 
He felt a sort of triumph in it , for he was sure Sally must know , they were so intimate . 
Well , he would go to her , and tell her all , confess all his sins , and be forgiven . 
When he came back to the house all was still evening . 
Mara was in his room , busy , as she always had been before his departures , in cares for him . 
How many things had she made for him , and done and arranged for him all his life long ! 
-- things which he had taken as much as a matter of course as the shining of that moon . 
His thoughts went back to the times of his first going to sea , -- he a rough , chaotic boy , sensitive and surly , and she the ever thoughtful good angel of a little girl , whose loving-kindness he had felt free to use and to abuse . 
He heard a rustle as of one rising hastily as he opened it and stood before Mara . 
He had made up his mind what to say ; but when she stood there before him , with her surprised , inquiring eyes , he felt confused . 
`` Mara , '' said Moses , `` people have asked you to marry them , have there not ? '' 
said Mara . 
`` You did not accept him , Mara ? '' 
`` And yet he was a fine man , I am told , and well fitted to make you happy . '' 
`` I believe he was , '' said Mara , quietly . 
Mara was fretted at this question . 
`` Is there anybody you prefer to him , Mara ? '' 
`` I am notyour brother , Mara , '' said Moses , rising and going toward her , `` and that is why I ask you . 
I love you , Mara -- not as a brother . 
While Moses was saying these words , Mara felt a sort of whirling in her head , and it grew dark before her eyes ; but she had a strong , firm will , and she mastered herself and answered , after a moment , in a quiet , sorrowful tone , `` How can I believe this , Moses ? 
`` Because I was a fool , Mara , -- because I was jealous of Mr. Adams , -- because I somehow hoped , after all , that you either loved me or that I might make you think more of me through jealousy of another . 
`` Not true love , I should think , '' said Mara . 
I have acted like a fool and a knave , if you will ; but after all , Mara , I do love you . 
Mara remembered that time in her girlhood when she had followed Moses into the woods on just such a night , -- how she had sat there under the shadows of the trees , and looked over to Harpswell and noticed the white houses and the meeting-house , all so bright and clear in the moonlight , and then off again on the other side of the island where silent ships were coming and going in the mysterious stillness . 
And then Moses had all the story of his life to relate , and to tell Mara all he had learned of his mother , -- going over with all the narrative contained in Mr. Sewell 's letter . 
`` You see , Mara , that it was intended that you should be my fate , '' he ended ; `` so the winds and waves took me up and carried me to the lonely island where the magic princess dwelt . '' 
`` You are Prince Ferdinand , '' said Mara . 
`` And you are Miranda , '' said he . 
He looked embarrassed , and there was a pause between them , and then he turned the conversation . 
Mara felt pained ; it was like a sudden discord ; such thoughts and feelings were the very breath of her life ; she could not speak in perfect confidence and unreserve , as she then spoke , without uttering them ; and her finely organized nature felt a sort of electric consciousness of repulsion and dissent . 
`` I see now , Mara , I have pained you , '' said Moses , `` but there are a class of feelings that you have that I have not and can not have . 
`` Oh , do n't say never , '' said Mara , with an intensity that nearly startled him ; `` it has been the one prayer , the one hope , of my life , that you might have these comforts , -- this peace . '' 
said Mara , in surprise . 
`` Because I need to be loved a great deal , and it is only that kind who pray who know how to love really.If you had not prayed for me all this time , you never would have loved me in spite of all my faults , as you did , and do , and will , as I know you will , '' he said , folding her in his arms ; and in his secret heart he said , `` Some of this intensity , this devotion , which went upward to heaven , will be mine one day . 
`` The fact is , Mara , '' he said , `` I am a child of this world . 
said Mara , almost starting away from him , `` such words are dreadful ; they will surely bring evil upon us . '' 
`` Moses , '' said Mara , stopping and looking at him in the clear moonlight , `` God has always been to me not so much like a father as like a dear and tender mother . 
Moses stood still a moment , for Mara spoke with a fervor that affected him ; then he drew her to his heart , and said , -- `` Oh , what could ever make you love me ? '' 
The words were spoken in a kind of enthusiasm so different from the usual reserve of Mara , that they seemed like a prophecy . 
I wish I 'd been in Mara 's place . '' 
`` I tell you what ' t is , Mis ' Badger , '' she said , `` I 've known Mara since she was born , -- I may say I fetched her up myself , for if I had n't trotted and tended her them first four weeks of her life , Mis ' Pennel 'd never have got her through ; and I 've watched her every year since ; and havin ' Moses Pennel is the only silly thing I ever knew her to do ; but you never can tell what a girl will do when it comes to marryin ' , -- never ! '' 
Moses Pennel has had long talks with brother , and he thinks him in a very hopeful way , and we are all delighted ; and as to Mara , she is as fresh and happy as a little rose . '' 
`` The old folks , '' she continued , `` are e ` en a ` most tickled to pieces , -- 'cause they think it 'll jist be the salvation of him to get Mara . '' 
`` Ever since he nearly like to have got her eat up by sharks , by giggiting her off in the boat out to sea when she wa ' n't more 'n three years old , I always have thought he was a misfortin ' in that family , and I think so now . '' 
Now Sally Kittridge is a great deal more like that than Mara . '' 
`` Oh no , oh no , '' was murmured from mouth to mouth ; `` Mrs. Eaton must n't think she 's any rule for others , -- everybody knows she can do more than most people ; '' -- whereat the pacified Mrs. Eaton said `` she did n't know as it was anything remarkable , -- it showed what anybody might do , if they 'd only tryand have resolution ; but that Mara never had been brought up to have resolution , -- and her mother never had resolution before her , it wa ' n't in any of Mary Pennel 's family , -- she knew their grandmother and all their aunts , and they were all a weakly set , and not fitted to get along in life , -- they were a kind of people that somehow did n't seem to know how to take holdof things . '' 
At this moment the consultation was hushed up by the entrance of Sally Kittridge and Mara , evidently on the closest terms of intimacy , and more than usually demonstrative and affectionate , -- they would sit together and use each other 's needles , scissors , thread , and thimbles interchangeably , as if anxious to express every minute the most overflowing confidence . 
She did n't see , for her part , how a professor of religion like Mara couldmake up her mind to such an unsettled kind of fellow , even if he did seem to be rich and well to do . 
But then it was only natural that Mara should be interested in Moses ; and the good soul went off into her favorite verse : -- `` The fondness of a creature 's love , How strong it strikes the sense ! 
Good Miss Ruey occasionally passed these to Mara , with glances full of meaning , which caused the poor old thing to resemble a sentimental goblin , keeping Sally Kittridge in a perfect hysterical tempest of suppressed laughter , and making it difficult for Mara to preserve the decencies of life toward her well-intending old friend . 
Captain Kittridge rowed his helpmeet , with Mara and Sally , across the Bay to the island . 
`` Come and stay with me to-night , Sally , '' said Mara . 
`` Mara and I shall come home through the woods in the morning , and we can get whole apronfuls of young wintergreen , and besides , I know where there 's a lot of sassafras root . 
We 'll dig it , wo n't we , Mara ? '' 
`` Yes ; and I 'll come down and help you brew , '' said Mara . 
`` We can make better yet now , '' said Mara . 
Mrs. Kittridge , who never did anything else among her tea-drinking acquaintances but laud and magnify Sally 's good traits and domestic acquirements , felt constantly bound to keep up a faint show of controversy and authority in her dealings with her , -- the fading remains of the strict government of her childhood ; but it was , nevertheless , very perfectly understood , in a general way , that Sally was to do as she pleased ; and so , when the boat came to shore , she took the arm of Mara and started up toward the brown house . 
The air was soft and balmy , and though the moon by which the troth of Mara and Moses had been plighted had waned into the latest hours of the night , still a thousand stars were lying in twinkling brightness , reflected from the undulating waves all around them , and the tide , as it rose and fell , made a sound as gentle and soft as the respiration of a peaceful sleeper . 
`` Well , Mara , '' said Sally , after an interval of silence , `` all has come out right . 
You see that it was you whom he loved . 
`` You are not heartless , Sally , '' said Mara ; `` it 's the enchanted princess asleep ; the right one has n't come to waken her . '' 
`` If I only were sure he would make you happy now , -- half as happy as you deserve , -- I 'd forgive him his share of this summer 's mischief . 
The fault was just half mine , you see , for I witched with him . 
`` Take care , Sally ; never do it again , or the spider-web may get round you , '' said Mara . 
`` But , Mara , I wish I felt sure that Moses could make you happy . 
`` I never thought seriously about it , '' said Mara ; `` but I know he needs me ; that I can do for him what no one else can . 
Mara felt that there was in these chance words of Sally more than she perceived . 
It was then that Mara felt that while her sympathies could follow him through all his plans and interests , there was a whole world of thought and feeling in her heart where his could not follow her ; and she asked herself , Would it be so always ? 
Must she walk at his side forever repressing the utterance of that which was most sacred and intimate , living in a nominal and external communion only ? 
How could it be that what was so lovely and clear in its reality to her , that which was to her as life-blood , that which was the vital air in which she lived and moved and had her being , could be absolutely nothingto him ? 
Was it really possible , as he said , that God had no existence for him except in a nominal cold belief ; that the spiritual world was to him only a land of pale shades and doubtful glooms , from which he shrank with dread , and the least allusion to which was distasteful ? 
But Mara said the truth in saying that the question of personal happiness never entered her thoughts . 
All this passed through Mara 's mind in the revery into which Sally 's last words threw her , as she sat on the door-sill and looked off into the starry distance and heard the weird murmur of the sea . 
`` I declare , Mara , I do n't wonder you miss that creature , for , to tell the truth , Ido a little bit . 
It was something , you know , to have somebody to come in , and to joke with , and to say how he liked one 's hair and one 's ribbons , and all that . 
`` Yes , '' said Mara , `` we two girls down on this lonely island need some one to connect us with the great world ; and he was so full of life , and so certain and confident , he seemed to open a way before one out into life . '' 
`` I am going to begin spinning some very fine flax next week , '' said Mara ; `` and have I shown you the new pattern I drew for a counterpane ? 
said Mara . 
`` If I were only a young fellow now , Mara , I 'd have you myself , and that would be just the thing ; and I 'd shoot Moses , if he said a word ; and I 'd have money , and I 'd have honors , and I 'd carry you off to Europe , and take you to Paris and Rome , and nobody knows where ; and we 'd live in peace , as the story-books say . '' 
`` Come , Sally , how wild you are talking , '' said Mara ; `` and the clock has just struck one ; let 's try to go to sleep . '' 
Sally put her face to Mara 's and kissed her , and Mara felt a moist spot on her cheek , -- could it be a tear ? 
She is as chipper as she can be about Mara 's weddin ' , and seems like she could n't do too much . 
Why , Mara ; you come down here and catched us in all our dirt ! 
Itwas in truth Mara herself who came and stood in the door-way . 
`` Sit down , sit down , little Mara , '' said Aunt Ruey . 
I brought you some young wintergreen , '' said Mara , unrolling from her handkerchief a small knot of those fragrant leaves , which were wilted by the heat . 
`` Thank you , I 'm sure , '' said Miss Ruey , in delight ; `` you always fetch something , Mara , -- always would ever since you could toddle . 
`` How kind o ' providential it happened about his getting that property ; he 'll be a rich man now ; and Mara , you 'll come to grandeur , wo n't you ? 
`` We ca n't tell what may happen , Aunt Ruey , '' said Mara , and there was a slight tremor in her voice as she spoke . 
Miss Roxy , who beyond the first salutations had taken no part in this conversation , had from time to time regarded Mara over the tops of her spectacles with looks of grave apprehension ; and Mara , looking up , now encountered one of these glances . 
Miss Roxy laid aside the straw bonnet which she was ripping , and motioned Mara into the outer room , -- the sinkroom , as the sisters called it . 
Mara had been all her days a child of the woods ; her delicate life had grown up in them like one of their own cool shaded flowers ; and there was not a moss , not a fern , not an up-springing thing that waved a leaf or threw forth a flower-bell , that was not a well-known friend to her ; she had watched for years its haunts , known the time of its coming and its going , studied its shy and veiled habits , and interwoven with its life each year a portion of her own ; and now she looked out into the old mossy woods , with their wavering spots of sun and shadow , with a yearning pain , as if she wanted help or sympathy to come from their silent recesses . 
Mara looked imploringly at Miss Roxy . 
Mara was confounded . 
Mara sprung up impulsively and threw her arms round her neck . 
Mara 's voice gave way in sobs , and the two wept together , -- the old grim gray woman holding the soft golden head against her breast with a convulsive grasp . 
said Mara . 
that was your sister , whose grave I have seen , '' said Mara , speaking in a soothing , caressing tone , and putting her little thin hand against the grim , wasted cheek , which was now moist with tears . 
said Mara . 
`` Well , now , Aunt Roxy , '' said Mara , `` at any rate , it 's a relief to speak out to some one . 
`` I have such a color every afternoon , '' said Mara . 
Mara had often seen in the graveyard a mound inscribed to this young person , and heard traditionally of a young and pretty sister of Miss Roxy who had died very many years before . 
Miss Roxy took down the little black object and handed it to Mara . 
Mara saw nothing but a little black shadow cast on white paper , yet she was affected by the perception how bright , how beautiful , was the image in the memory of that seemingly stern , commonplace woman , and how of all that in her mind 's eye she saw and remembered , she could find no outward witness but this black block . 
`` I s ` pose Mara wanted to get some advice about makin ' up her weddin ' things , '' said Miss Ruey , with a sort of humble quiver , as Miss Roxy began ripping and tearing fiercely at her old straw bonnet , as if she really purposed its utter and immediate demolition . 
That 's what Mara 's got to think of ; for , mark my words , Ruey , there is no marryin ' and givin ' in marriage for her in this world . '' 
Well , nobody need n't say Mara ha ' n't got resolution . 
At this moment , to their surprise , the door opened , and Mara came in , and both sisters were struck with a change that had passed over her . 
`` I am rested , '' said Mara ; `` oh how much ! 
`` Dear Aunt Ruey , you must n't , '' said Mara , with a voice of gentle authority . 
`` I told you , Mara , that you 'd be supported in the Lord 's time , '' said Miss Roxy , who watched her with an air of grave and solemn attention . 
said Mara . 
It was toward sunset before Miss Roxy and Mara started on their walk homeward . 
The fresh cool breeze blowing landward brought with it an invigorating influence , which Mara felt through all her feverish frame . 
`` Why , reely , '' he said , `` Miss Roxy , we thought you must a-run away with Mara ; she 's been gone a ` most all day . '' 
Mara turned to Miss Roxy , and gave her a look of peculiar meaning . 
The silence that fell between the three was broken at last by the sound of a light footstep descending the stairs , and Mara entered among them . 
-- is anything the matter with Mara ? '' 
I hope now you hav ' n't been filling Mara 's head with any such notions -- people can be frightened into anything . '' 
Mara Pennel is a gal as has every bit and grain as much resolution and ambition as you have , for all you flap your wings and crow so much louder , and she 's one of the close-mouthed sort , that do n't make no talk , and she 's been a-bearin ' up and bearin ' up , and comin ' to me on the sly for strengthenin ' things . 
I tell you it has been a solemn time ; and if you 're goin ' in , do n't go in with none o ' your light triflin ' ways , 'cause ` as vinegar upon nitre is he that singeth songs on a heavy heart , ' the Scriptur ' says . '' 
`` What do you think is the matter with Mara ? 
I do n't believe there 's one person in the world that would go farther or do more to save Mara Pennel than I would , -- and yet I 've been in the world long enough to see that livin ' a 'n' t no great shakes neither . 
She went up-stairs to Mara 's room ; the door was ajar . 
Mara was sitting at the open window that looked forth toward the ocean , busily engaged in writing . 
said Mara , looking up . 
`` Oh , Mara , I just met Miss Roxy , and she told me '' -- Sally only sobbed passionately . 
`` It is very sad to make all one 's friends so unhappy , '' said Mara , in a soothing voice , stroking Sally 's hair . 
said Sally , tightening her clasp around Mara 's neck ; and then with a hysterical shadow of gayety she said , `` I suppose you think that you are such a hobgoblin that nobody could be expected to do that . 
`` Well , she does love me , '' said Mara . 
`` Do try to tell me , Mara , '' said Sally , `` for I need comfort too , if there is any to be had . '' 
`` Oh Mara , '' said Sally , sighing deeply , while her cheek was wet with tears , `` it is beautiful to hear you talk ; but there is one that I am sure willnot and can not feel so . '' 
`` God will care for him , '' said Mara ; `` oh , I am sure of it ; He is love itself , and He values his love in us , and He never , never would have brought such a trial , if it had not been the true and only way to our best good . 
`` And are you telling him the whole truth , Mara ? '' 
`` Not all , no , '' said Mara ; `` he could not bear it at once . 
I only tell him that my health is failing , and that my friends are seriously alarmed , and then I speak as if it were doubtful , in my mind , what the result might be . '' 
`` I do n't think you can make him feel as you do . 
Youbend , Mara , like the little blue harebells , and so the storm goes over you ; but he will stand up against it , and it will wrench and shatter him . 
I am afraid , instead of making him better , it will only make him bitter and rebellious . '' 
`` He has a Father in heaven who knows how to care for him , '' said Mara . 
`` I am persuaded -- I feel certain that he will be blessed in the end ; not perhaps in the time and way I should have chosen , but in the end . 
I have always felt that he was mine ever since he came a little shipwrecked boy to me -- a little girl . 
And now I have given him up to his Saviour and my Saviour -- to his God and my God -- and I am perfectly at peace . 
Mara spoke with a look of such solemn , bright assurance as made her , in the dusky , golden twilight , seem like some serene angel sent down to comfort , rather than a hapless mortal just wrenched from life and hope . 
`` Mara , '' she said , `` I shall come to-morrow to see what I can do for you . 
Itis now about a month after the conversation which we have recorded , and during that time the process which was to loose from this present life had been going on in Mara with a soft , insensible , but steady power . 
It was so , that through the very thought of Mara an influence of tenderness and tranquillity passed through the whole neighborhood , keeping hearts fresh with sympathy , and causing thought and conversation to rest on those bright mysteries of eternal joy which were reflected on her face . 
`` I do hope Mara has had a good night . '' 
`` Mara has written to him and so has Mr. Sewell , but it is very uncertain whether he ever got the letters . '' 
Mara is not so very -- very '' -- He held Sally 's hand and looked at her with a burning eagerness . 
I know Mara ; everything depends on the mind with her . 
said Sally ; `` why , she 's going up to nurse Mara , and take care of her . 
She loves Mara dearly , the poor old soul , and Mara loves her , and there is no earthly thing she would not do for her . 
Sallyfound Mara sitting in an easy-chair that had been sent to her by the provident love of Miss Emily . 
`` Mara , is not there anything you want ? '' 
`` Mara , -- he is come . '' 
`` Oh , Mara , Mara , '' he groaned , `` this is too dreadful , too cruel ; it is cruel . '' 
`` Never , Mara , never.I can not believe that kind of talk . 
Oh , Mara , you can not love as I do , or you could not '' -- `` Moses , I have suffered , -- oh , very , very much . 
`` I do wrong to agitate you so , Mara . 
Moses turned away , and silently left the room , and Sally said to Mara , -- `` You must lie down now and rest . '' 
`` Sally , '' said Mara , `` promise me one thing . '' 
`` Well , Mara ; of course I will . '' 
`` Promise to love him and care for him when I am gone ; he will be so lonely . '' 
`` I will do all I can , Mara , '' said Sally , soothingly ; `` so now you must take a little wine and lie down . 
You know what you have so often said , that all will yet be well with him . '' 
`` Oh , I know it , I am sure , '' said Mara , `` but oh , his sorrow shook my very heart . '' 
And Sally assisted to lay her friend on the bed , and then , administering a stimulant , she drew down the curtains , and , sitting beside her , began repeating , in a soft , monotonous tone , the words of a favorite hymn : -- Before she had finished , Mara was asleep . 
Mosescame down from the chamber of Mara in a tempest of contending emotions . 
He had all that constitutional horror of death and the spiritual world , which is an attribute of some particularly strong and well-endowed physical natures , and he had all that instinctive resistance of the will which such natures offer to anything which strikes athwart their cherished hopes and plans . 
To be wrenched suddenly from the sphere of an earthly life and made to confront the unclosed doors of a spiritual world on the behalf of the one dearest to him , was to him a dreary horror uncheered by one filial belief in God . 
Mr. Sewell was sitting in the kitchen , -- he had called to see Mara , and waited for the close of the interview above . 
He rose and offered his hand to Moses , -- who took it in gloomy silence , without a smile or word . 
He had all his life carried within him a vague consciousness that he had not been to Mara what he should have been , but he had hoped to make amends for all in that future which lay before him , -- that future now , alas ! 
Thesetting sun gleamed in at the window of Mara 's chamber , tinted with rose and violet hues from a great cloud-castle that lay upon the smooth ocean over against the window . 
Mara was lying upon the bed , but she raised herself upon her elbow to look out . 
`` I love you , Aunt Roxy , '' said Mara , looking up with a smile . 
`` Law now , Mara , I do n't see how ye can ; I a 'n' t nothin ' but an old burdock-bush ; -- love a 'n' t for me . '' 
`` Yes it istoo , '' said Mara , drawing her down and kissing her withered cheek , `` and you sha 'n' t call yourself an old burdock . 
said Mara . 
said Mara , `` it is too hard upon him . 
`` Yes , do , '' said Mara . 
`` Oh , Mara , '' said Moses , `` I would give my life , if I could take back the past . 
`` Mara , '' said Moses , `` I never lived through such a day as this . 
Mara knew in her own heart that this was all true , and she was too real to use any of the terms of affected humiliation which many think a kind of spiritual court language . 
She looked at him and answered , `` Moses , I always knew I loved most . 
`` But , oh Mara -- oh , my angel ! 
Mara lay with her large eyes fixed on the now faded sky . 
In a few moments she repeated to herself , as if she were musing upon them , those mysterious words of Him who liveth and was dead , `` Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die , it abideth alone ; if it die , it bringeth forth much fruit . '' 
`` Oh , Mara , Mara , do n't say that . '' 
In this one day -- the sacred revealing light of approaching death -- he had seen more of the real spiritual beauty and significance of Mara 's life than in years before , and felt upspringing in his heart , from the deep pathetic influence of the approaching spiritual world , a new and stronger power of loving . 
`` I ought to have thought of that , Mara . '' 
`` And a good one , too , Aunt Roxy '' said Mara . 
In spite of himself Moses felt the storm that had risen in his bosom that morning soothed by the gentle influences which Mara breathed upon it . 
She called Moses to come and look at her drawings , and paintings of flowers and birds , -- full of reminders they were of old times , -- and then she would have her pencils and colors , and work a little on a bunch of red rock-columbine , that she had begun to do for him ; and she chatted of all the old familiar places where flowers grew , and of the old talks they had had there , till Moses quite forgot himself ; forgot that he was in a sick room , till Aunt Roxy , warned by the deepening color on Mara 's cheeks , interposed her `` nussing '' authority , that she must do no more that day . 
Mara seemed to rule all around her with calm sweetness and wisdom , speaking unconsciously only the speech of heaven , talking of spiritual things , not in an excited rapture or wild ecstasy , but with the sober certainty of waking bliss . 
I thought it was Mara , but it seemed a great pearl with a soft moonlight on it ; and I was running for it when some one said ` hush , ' and I looked and I saw Hima-coming -- Jesus of Nazareth , jist as he walked by the sea of Galilee . 
A cheerful home she made , too , for his old age , adorning the house with many little tasteful fancies unknown in her mother 's days ; reading the Bible to him and singing Mara 's favorite hymns , with a voice as sweet as the spring blue-bird . 
