A dignified courtesy answered the courtly salutation of the officer ; and her brother , turning to two other ladies that now advanced , said , `` Her friend Lucretia Fitzherbert , and Madam Sandford . '' 
The sharp countenance and prim figure of Miss Sandford , gave her the air of an antediluvian image ; the inelegant form and very plain face of Lucretia , though transiently lighted up with expression that almost atoned for the want of beauty , formed a contrast extremely favourable to the etherial loveliness of Grace ; and the Grecian outline of Henry 's mild countenance served to place in bold relief the aquiline nose , and the open , fearless brow of Somerville , shaded by a profusion of curls , as dark and clustering as the beautiful locks of the Roman Antinous . 
`` Uncle Hutchinson has expected you several days , '' said Lucretia , as Somerville seated himself . 
`` He would , of course , have been among the first to welcome you , had he been at home , '' she replied ; `` but , followed by all the servants , he has gone to watch the bonfires on Fort Hill ; where , I suppose , either indignation or anxiety has led two-thirds of the population . '' 
`` I dare say Cain scolded his wife about the degeneracy of the ladies in Nod , '' said Lucretia , laughing . 
Anxious to interrupt the awkward silence , Lucretia hastily said , `` My uncle left the servants with us ; but , after all , it seems that bonnets and hats cover brains of very similar formation ; for , one by one , the eagerness of curiosity tempted them from us , till we were left to the protection of aunt Sandford . '' 
`` I had no idea the citizens of Boston could utter sounds so terrific as those we have heard to-night '' `` It would be well if their echo could reach across the Atlantic , '' observed her brother . 
`` Too much so to leave three distressed damsels to guard a house on such a night as this , I fancy , '' said Lucretia , smiling . 
Then there is your friend Doctor Byles , Lucretia , it behoved me to inquire about his safety ; for we well know that his wit and his loyalty make him very abominable in the eyes of this liberty-mad race . '' 
`` Why Grace would think me a lunatic if I should propose to her to live one night without her father 's kiss and blessing '' said Lucretia . 
`` And not far from right , my mad-capped niece , '' replied he , playfully touching her shoulder . 
Captain Fitzherbert , the father of Lucretia , was the youngest son in a family of noble connexions and moderate wealth . 
After the birth of the infant Lucretia , Mrs. Fitzherbert proposed to the executors to examine the papers of her deceased husband . 
When Lucretia was in her thirteenth year , it chanced that Miss Sandford , the maiden sister of Mrs. Hutchinson , visited Halifax , and was taken ill at the house where she resided . 
This last account seemed to tally with the Captain 's story , and in the Governor 's mind , it established the important point of honourable birth ; and though there was seemingly no hope that Lucretia would ever become an heiress , we must do him the justice to say , that he treated her with extreme kindness , up to the period we have mentioned . 
It was as follows : `` A friend of mine , who has lately returned to England , accidentally mentioned meeting Miss Fitzherbert at your house . 
May I ask who this Miss Fitzherbert is ? 
It is therefore important that I should know her history and connexions immediately . 
`` Copley is now in New England , and I should like to have him take her picture for me . 
Omit no particulars concerning her father , and have all the documents well authenticated . 
A long conference between the Governor , Miss Sandford , and Lucretia , terminated in sending a note to Doctor Byles , requesting his attendance as soon as convenient , to converse on some particular business . 
Before two hours had elapsed , Lucretia heard the well-known sound of his gold-headed cane , as it struck on the stone steps of the dwelling ; and hastened to show him into the library . 
`` None of these things have befallen us , '' answered the Governor , smiling , `` I want to consult you about Lucretia 's affairs . '' 
`` What affairs can she have , pray ? 
`` They say it is a garment often bought , '' observed Lucretia ; `` and it is money which uncle Hutchinson wishes to talk with you about . '' 
I have heard you say , that you saw Captain Fitzherbert , in your youth . 
Be that as it may , he lost no opportunity of railing at her , and when Lucretia was desired to call her , he exclaimed , `` Oh dear , that Miss Sandford ! 
Governor Hutchinson looked upon his friend as a privileged person , and took no notice of these and similar remarks ; but they were always distressing to Lucretia , and she had just whispered , `` I beg of you not to talk in this way , '' -- when Miss Sandford entered and wished him good morning . 
`` I wish to ascertain how much both of you know concerning Captain Fitzherbert . '' 
`` I remember , '' said he , `` hearing Captain Fitzherbert speak of his escape from Manilla . 
`` I have heard that remark of my father 's repeated several times , '' said Lucretia . 
`` Do you know whether Captain Fitzherbert ever heard from his relations after he left them ? '' 
`` I have heard that he was once taken ill with a fever , and carried to Chelsea Hospital , '' replied Lucretia ; `` and that his father was one of the visiting committee , and used frequently to give him cordials with his own hand ; but time and sickness had so changed my father that he did not know him ; and his pride would not submit to an avowal under such circumstances . '' 
`` Lucretia , sit down and write a note to Mr. Townsend , requesting him to come here ; and send Jethro with the carriage . '' 
`` I love that scatter-brained girl in spite of myself , '' said Doctor Byles , as she left the apartment . 
Every one noticed his look of deadly paleness , when the name of Fitzherbert was mentioned . 
That craving for sympathy which leads us all to dwell more or less on our own miseries , would have induced Mr Townsend to prolong this topic to a painful length , had not Governor Hutchinson at once arrested him by direct questions concerning the Fitzherbert estate . 
That there had been some mistake concerning the death of the East India uncle , and that Lucretia would be heiress to his immense wealth , was the impression of all her friends . 
`` Lucretia will be the richest woman in New England , '' said she ; `` a match for the greatest man in the Colonies . '' 
`` A heavy cannonade , upon my word , '' said the laughing Lucretia ; `` but after all , Doctor Byles , none of my friends will be more glad of my good fortune than yourself . '' 
`` Very true , my good girl , '' said he , affectionately taking her hand ; `` but it will be that you have it in your power to be useful , -- not to get a husband . '' 
`` Certainly not , '' replied Lucretia . 
Lucretia blushed , -- for at that moment she was actually conjecturing whether her thousands could make Somerville forget that she was less beautiful than Grace Osborne . 
`` Lucretia is in the cupola , '' said the Governor , motioning to his nephew . 
Lucretia 's voice was heard on the stairs , as she screamed , `` Aunt ! 
Another tremendous wreck succeeded , as she burst into the library . 
she exclaimed . 
The united voices of Somerville and Miss Sandford were now heard , calling , `` This way , Lucretia , this way . '' 
Lucretia , who had not spoken one word during the perilous scene , now clasped her arms around Grace , and wept ; Miss Sandford threw herself into a chair , and rocked and sobbed violently ; while Mr. Osborne , forgetting how much he disliked the avarice and political deception of Hutchinson , grasped his hand most joyfully . 
Grace cast a look of utter agony at Lucretia , who , pale as death , exclaimed , `` Oh , that dreadful sound ! 
asked Lucretia , who occasionally attended to the conversation . 
`` Miss Fitzherbert will be the conquerer , I foresee . '' 
The suffusion that flitted over Grace 's cheek , was as light and transient , as the rose tint that the setting sun casts on the drifted snow ; but Lucretia blushed that deep and glowing red , which a painful sensation can alone call to the face ; and Doctor Willard turned away from the too beaming expression of Somerville 's countenance , with an audible sigh . 
`` And whom must you ask , Miss Fitzherbert ? '' 
`` Near to your head , but not to your heart , '' said Lucretia . 
In tones of whining entreaty , Mr. Townsend began by saying , `` So , after helping me to these Fitzherbert papers , and after forging letters to the widow , you say you will leave me in the lurch , if I get into any trouble by this deuced East India uncle 's coming to life again . 
This treasure belonged to Captain Fitzherbert , who had left it in the care of a friend at Cuba , with directions to send it to his widow at Halifax , in case of his death . 
Among this motley group was one individual , who entirely arrested Lucretia 's attention . 
She walked before them with a most masculine stride , and ever and anon cast back an anxious , earnest look , as she muttered , `` Aye , as good as the proudest ; thanks to a poor old woman she never dreams of . '' 
Lucretia thought so too ; but the expression of her face haunted her imagination ; and she was unable to dispel the charm , until she had vainly searched around the church for the singular apparition . 
Even Somerville shaded his eyes when he pointed to the lightning , and knelt as he listened to the approaching thunder ; -- while the deep sensibility of Grace , and the thoughtless vivacity of Lucretia , yielded to the powerful excitement , in an unrestrained burst of tears . 
said Lucretia , as they mingled with the departing throng . 
`` Some doubt Mr. Whitfield 's talents as well as his piety , '' rejoined Lucretia ; `` but after what I have witnessed this morning , I shall never distrust the sincerity of his enthusiastic devotion . 
`` It is but another proof that genius will find its upward way , whatever obstacles may lie in its path , '' said Lucretia . 
Grace , usually silent and timid , said nothing ; but her beautiful eyelashes were still impearled with tears , -- and her sweet face was radiant with pleasure , when she heard the allusion to her father . 
Such souls as Lucretia 's alone can feel the full force of its softening and mysterious power . 
Her mind , vigorous as an eagle 's wing , and rapid as the streams of Chili , had been early left to her own guidance . 
Under such circumstances , imagination had become her favourite region ; but the glowing climate that brought the weeds to rank luxuriance , did not scorch the beauty of the flowers . 
She was wont to examine every thing in the illusive kaleidoscope of fancy , which forms broken glass and tinselled fragments into as beautiful and regular combinations as polished diamonds and pearls bedded in gold . 
It was no harm that the mighty cavalcade of worlds , wheeling through the desert realms of space ; the hills in their broad and mellow sunshine ; the rivers laughing and leaping in their joyous course ; and the western sky warmly blushing at the bright glance of her departing lover , should speak to her a language deeper than poetry ; but at that susceptible age , when the affections are fully developed while the judgment remains in embryo , more dangerous objects are often invested with the rainbow-robe of romance . 
Suffice it , therefore , to say , that the burthen was sufficiently heavy to the foolish heart which carried it ; and that Lucretia joined the evening party with no small portion of sadness . 
Somerville had read the `` Rape of the Lock '' to her and Lucretia , and had afterwards presented her with the elegant little volume . 
For an instant a deep frown settled on the brow of the young Englishman , but it immediately passed away ; and giving his hand to Lucretia , he sprang into the boat , and seated himself by her side . 
Miss Sandford was in good humour with herself and all the world -LRB- Doctor Byles always excepted -RRB- ; and having a good stock of sense , and a talent at repartee , she by no means diminished the pleasure of the party : as for Doctor Byles , the fountain of his wit was never known to be dry , though sage advice and dignified admonition were frequently mingled with its playful brilliancy or pungent sarcasm : Henry Osborne preserved his usual calm , unostentatious , but perfectly delightful manner : Doctor Willard , enthusiastic , and easily excited , made no attempt to conceal the happiness which Miss Osborne 's unwonted kindness inspired : Somerville talked with unusual volubility , and surpassed even his own accustomed gallantry : Grace with difficulty forced back her tears , yet she appeared uncommonly cheerful ; -- while the flushed cheek , the sparkling eye , and the unconscious deference of all Lucretia 's looks and actions , betrayed the subtle power that produced them . 
As they passed `` the gay young group of grassy islands , '' which decorate our beautiful harbour , Lucretia observed , `` How very lovely these little spots appear , where the moon gleams through the dense shade , and tinges the water with its brightness . '' 
`` A metaphor from the lips of Grace Osborne , as I live , '' exclaimed Lucretia . 
In the evening light her confusion passed unnoticed by Lucretia , who continued all exhilaration and romance . 
She pointed out the tangled constellation of Berenice , the brilliant beauty of Altair , and the royal circle of the Corona Borealis . 
Her want of beauty was forgotten in her unaffected eloquence ; and Somerville looked at her with unfeigned admiration , as he said , `` What a pity you had not lived in the days of chivalry , Miss Fitzherbert . 
`` I think Miss Fitzherbert will prefer what she will be sure to receive at the present day , '' said Henry Osborne . 
Miss Osborne blushed deeply , and the smile on Lucretia 's face was stiff and unnatural . 
Henry Osborne turned to give his hand to Lucretia , -- but Somerville had already offered his services . 
`` Step a little nearer , if it pleases you , Miss Fitzherbert , '' said Somerville . 
`` Is there a Fitzherbert here , '' muttered he ; `` no wonder that -- '' `` Strike the bar down , and ascertain its depth , '' interrupted Somerville , without regarding what he said . 
Lucretia sought her pillow with a head full of cheerful visions ; Miss Sandford related the adventure to Governor Hutchinson , and when she retired to rest , she drew the coverlet over her face , quick as thought , lest the growling spirit should appear at her bed-side ; and as Grace extinguished her light , she gently wiped away a tear , after vainly attempting to account for the capriciousness of Somerville . 
`` Captain Fitzherbert was then in port . 
Fitzherbert dared to reproach me for my ungenerous conduct ; and Gertrude , after having besought me , with tearful eyes , to make our marriage public , told me that she had no friend in the world but Fitzherbert . 
As for Mr. Wilson , it was the happiest day he had known since his youth ; but when he retired to rest , he felt a sort of uneasy , reluctant wish to palliate his own crime , -- and he could not help murmuring , `` She does look cursedly like Fitzherbert . '' 
The door gently opened , and the good-natured countenance of Lucretia Fitzherbert presented itself to her view . 
`` Why , Grace , how long it is since I have seen you , '' exclaimed her animated friend . 
`` I assure you , I have wished to come ; but I have been so very busy -- '' `` I wonder what has busied you so suddenly , '' interrupted Lucretia . 
`` Umph , '' said Lucretia , with the most provoking significance . 
`` How much it looks like Somerville , '' said Lucretia . 
`` Captain Somerville is enthusiastic about painting , '' said Lucretia . 
`` I know you laugh because he is always the burden of my song , '' observed Lucretia ; `` but really if you lived in the same house with him , you could not but admire , -- very much admire , his sparkling intelligence , his ready wit , and his open gallantry . '' 
`` I think nothing about it , '' rejoined Lucretia . 
`` Oh , Lucretia , how little need there is of a window to your heart . '' 
The tears started to Miss Osborne 's eyes , and forgetting that her remark would imply a keen reproof to her thoughtless friend , she said , `` What have I done , that you should accuse me of being deficient in the delicacy which should ever characterize a lady ? '' 
rejoined Lucretia , putting her arms round her neck , with girlish affection . 
`` Nothing , -- only I have offended Grace , as I often do the Graces , '' answered Lucretia ; `` and so I hav been trying to atone for it . 
`` Nay , I will not be called names , '' said she , gaily striking him with her parasol ; `` unless you can warp your conscience enough to call me by the old-fashioned name of angel . 
asked Lucretia . 
`` I should like to walk there , '' said Lucretia , smiling ; `` it is several days since I have seen him . '' 
`` But you can say there is not a shadow of beauty now , '' rejoined Lucretia , as she herself moved to the glass . 
`` How brilliant you are to-night , '' exclaimed Lucretia . 
Lucretia , who knew him well , was the first to break silence . 
`` It is the way the Doctor sometimes chooses to cut his best friends , '' said she . 
`` But come into my study , Lucretia . 
`` You must not begin to talk politics , '' said Lucretia ; `` for Captain Somerville never speaks all he thinks , before you . 
Somerville looked , as if he did not thank her for thus lowering him in the estimation of Miss Osborne ; and Henry replied , `` I think he begins to be a proselyte to the righteous cause . 
`` I must tell you , '' continued the farmer , `` that you are heartily welcome , Miss Grace , and Mr. Henry , and Miss Fitzherbert , and the stranger gentleman . '' 
`` Which I trust they never will do , '' said Lucretia , laughing . 
inquired Lucretia . 
asked Lucretia . 
Miss Fitzherbert smiled , and looked significantly at Somerville , as she said , `` You see the spirit of the land . '' 
`` Oh , yes , Grace can kiss him , now she knows his rebel name , '' said the laughing Lucretia . 
On their way home , Somerville walked with Miss Osborne ; and Lucretia , of course , accepted the proffered arm of Mr. Osborne . 
Grace visited less and less frequently at Lucretia 's lodgings , but the visits she received from Somerville were far too numerous to please her affectionate and judicious connexions . 
Perfectly aware of this , and sometimes chilled by the fastidious reserve of the little beauty , Somerville became more absent , irritable , and negligent than Lucretia had ever seen him . 
The inattention which originated entirely in thoughtlessness , seemed to her to be peculiarly pointed ; and she began to fear that the gayety and frankness of her nature had been mistaken for undue levity . 
Painful as this idea might be , it was the medicine her diseased mind required . 
Pride took possession of a heart transparent as it was susceptible , and it was soon evident that she was exerting all her good sense to overcome the fascination to which she had so foolishly yielded . 
But when we have long allowed our feelings to spurn at restraint , it requires a giant 's hand to curb them ; and though Lucretia possessed great purity and rectitude of purpose , the important lesson of self-control was one she had never learned . 
Henry Osborne was aware that the present period was a very important one to Miss Fitzherbert ; and he feared that the influence of Somerville was any thing but beneficial . 
Perhaps a long-cherished attachment to Lucretia had made Mr. Osborne particularly keen-sighted to the faults of his rival ; but so wise , so prudent had he been while under the dominion of that blind boy , who is wont to writhe and stamp so furiously in the chains of reason , that the state of his affections had never been suspected by their object . 
Somerville laid down the paper he was busily reading , and gave him a hearty welcome ; and Lucretia , piqued at the silence and absent manner of her companion , received him with uncommon frankness and cordiality . 
Lucretia gave an incredulous and significant look , as if she would say , `` He does not always talk thus . '' 
`` That I have found more wealth , intellect , and refinement in America , than my English education taught me to expect , is certainly most true , '' replied Somerville ; `` and whatsoever I believe , I frankly confess ; notwithstanding Miss Fitzherbert expresses by her looks that I am guilty of double-dealing . '' 
`` For the love of quiet , '' said Lucretia , `` do not set that ball a rolling ; for do but name the words ` female inferiority ' before Aunt Sandford , and it will go like a bullet on an inclined plane , every step accelerating its motion . '' 
Lucretia whispered something that seemed to conciliate the offended maiden ; and Somerville resumed the conversation by saying , `` One must be difficult to please , if they are not satisfied with the preaching of Doctor Byles . 
Henry was about to enter into a vindication of aspersed humanity ; but he well knew Lucretia 's disdain of all beaten tracks ; and he feared the effect of new and bold ideas elicited from the daring mind of Somerville . 
`` You look as if you wished that remark should be individually appropriated , '' said Lucretia ; `` and perhaps you would tell the same person to foster judgment as if it were a hot-house plant , and trust imagination to its own wild , spontaneous growth . '' 
said Lucretia , in the careless gayety of her heart , `` you must bear with me just as I am , a few years longer ; and then I will promise to be so collected , so prudent -- My feelings shall be just as calm as the river in summer 's moonlight . 
Somerville immediately proposed to Miss Fitzherbert that they should both accompany him . 
Lucretia coldly declined , pretending she feared the effects of evening dampness ; and the young men , having expressed their regret , took their hats , and bade good evening . 
Lucretia had unconsciously been tying knot after knot in her thread , little aware that her friend suspected all that was passing in her mind . 
The tears started to her eyes , as she replied , `` I am sure , dear aunt , she is every thing that is amiable and lovely . '' 
said Lucretia , with a look of extreme surprise . 
Lucretia smiled at the good old lady 's perturbation . 
`` Captain Somerville 's heart , '' said she , `` is like the waves cut by a passing vessel -- a moment after , you can find no traces of an impression . 
`` There seems very little chance for it , '' replied Lucretia , -- `` since such a thought probably never entered the young gentleman 's brain . '' 
The attempt to vindicate her friends from such unfounded charges would have been , just at that time , entirely useless . 
Lucretia , who well understood the avenues to her heart , gave a more pleasant turn to the conversation , by acknowledging the old lady 's experience in the affairs of the heart , and thus leading her to dwell , for the thousandth time , on the rejected addresses of her youth . 
When Miss Fitzherbert retired to her chamber , she took with her the book which Mr. Osborne had opened , intending to search for a passage particularly admired by Somerville . 
She opened it , and read as follows : `` I hardly know how to account for the diffidence I feel in addressing you . 
At all events , ever your affectionate friend , and obedient servant , `` Umph , '' said Lucretia , as she folded the letter , `` I say with Cowley , ` I could not love , I 'm sure , One who in love were wise . ' '' 
With a promptitude , for which she did not stop to account to her own heart , she thanked Mr. Osborne for the confidence he had placed in her , and expressed an affectionate interest in his welfare and happiness ; but declared that it was utterly impossible for her ever to reciprocate his attachment . 
He looked up as he spoke -- his expression suddenly changed ; and he shaded his face , as he murmured , `` Oh , how much like Fitzherbert ! '' 
`` It 's a lie , '' squeaked the old miser , in tones hardly audible , `` I never touched Fitzherbert 's money . '' 
Mr. Townsend was executor to the Fitzherbert estate . 
When he revived a little , Mr. Osborne , impelled by his anxiety for Lucretia , asked where the proofs of this transaction could be found . 
I meant to have left it to Gertrude , '' continued he , looking at her with earnest affection , `` but she will have enough , if justice has all her due . '' 
`` Some accursed fatality has always joined my fortunes with Fitzherbert 's , '' said he . 
Grace and Lucretia spent the ensuing day in the house of mourning ; and their ready kindness and unaffected sensibility rapidly made their way to the heart of the fair mourner , -- while the guileless simplicity of her ideas , aided by the witchery of foreign accent , made a claim on their affections equally powerful . 
With a sudden and rapid stride the grandmother approached Lucretia , and seizing her arm attempted to follow . 
Lucretia shrank from the contact with loathing and terror ; but the singular woman held her in a strong grasp , as she said , `` Thus , thus it should be . 
Fearing her violence would create confusion , Lucretia passively yielded to her guidance , -- though partly from fear , and partly from the inequality of their stature , she found it nearly impossible to keep pace with her . 
`` Lucretia Fitzherbert , '' said the old woman , stepping aside from her companions , and warmly clasping her hand , `` You 'll may-be never see me again ; or if ye do , I 'll may-be bring you unwelcome tidings . 
With mingled surprise and pity , Miss Fitzherbert answered , `` If there is any thing I can do for you , poor woman -- '' `` Your love and your prayers , '' interrupted she ; -- `` oh , if I had them , I could tread my wearisome pilgrimage in peace . '' 
On their way homeward , it was agreed that her grandchildren , accompanied by Lucretia , should seek her dwelling the ensuing day . 
Four thousand pounds , the amount proved to have been sequestrated from the Fitzherbert estate , was paid into the hands of Governor Hutchinson . 
Lucretia kissed the precious document , and steeped it in her tears . 
The identical handwriting of Captain Fitzherbert was immediately sent to England , together with an account of Wilson 's confession ; and Mr. and Mrs. Percival returned home , blessed by the numerous friends whom their integrity and kindness had procured for them . 
`` Probably Mr. Osborne 's faith is about tantamount to yours and ` the ever memorable Hales ' , '' ' said Lucretia ; `` but it is not surprising his feelings were touched . 
inquired Lucretia . 
I rejoice to see by your letter , that you have been educated as a Fitzherbert should be . 
A few hours after , a small box , directed to Lucretia , was brought from the newly arrived vessel . 
A miniature , richly studded with rubies and pearl , gave to Lucretia 's view the bluff , sun-burnt features of her wealthy uncle ; and last of all , appeared a draft on the bank of England , to the amount of one thousand pounds . 
In the course of the day , the Osbornes called to congratulate their young friend on her good fortune , of the prospect of which they had , till within a week , been entirely ignorant . 
cried Miss Sandford ; `` Lucretia goes to England early in the spring , and she can have the retinue of a duchess , if she chooses . '' 
Wherever Miss Fitzherbert goes , and whatever may be her fortune , she will at least remember that Henry Osborne was a friend , sincere and disinterested . '' 
Lucretia smiled as she looked back and said to Grace , `` Captain Somerville 's English prejudices and tory predilections seem to have returned with full power . '' 
To the great vexation of Somerville , this was disturbed by the elder Mr. Osborne and Lucretia , who had returned to meet them . 
During the winter , letters had again been received from Mr. Edmund Fitzherbert , expressing great anxiety to see Lucretia , and urging her to come to him as soon as the season would possibly admit . 
All these circumstances considered , Governor Hutchinson thought it expedient that Lucretia should accompany his nephew to England . 
Perhaps the money-loving magistrate had a more powerful motive than that of securing a pleasant companion and protector for Miss Fitzherbert 's voyage . 
Whatever might be the workings of Lucretia 's mind , they were concealed by pride ; and she herself firmly believed that she thought of Somerville only as an agreeable companion , whose gayety and eloquence would serve to enliven a wearisome voyage . 
Lucretia was about to speak of the certainty of his attachment for Grace Osborne , but she knew it was a topic on which the good lady was peculiarly irascible . 
Besides , from complicated causes , both the young ladies carefully avoided any allusion to the state of his affections ; and though , in every other respect , they treated each other with the most girlish unreserve , Lucretia was left in a state of painful uncertainty with regard to this delicate subject . 
During the brief space that intervened before her departure , the young friends seemed to feel a feverish anxiety to meet , -- yet when they met , they were disconsolate and silent . 
Doctor Byles grasped Lucretia 's hand with affectionate fervour , as he said , `` God bless you , Miss Fitzherbert , and make you as happy as you deserve to be . '' 
Mr. Osborne 's benignant countenance seemed to express anxiety as well as love ; and Henry 's voice lost a little of its firmness as he pronounced , `` God bless you , Lucretia . '' 
Her breathing was quick and agitated ; and she grasped Lucretia 's hand with a strength of which her tiny palm seemed totally incapable . 
Her friend returned the pressure in a manner equally earnest and protracted ; and as their hands parted , Somerville 's ring burst asunder , and fell at Miss Fitzherbert 's feet . 
During the last week in July , sooner than her anxious friends had ventured to expect them , letters arrived from Lucretia Fitzherbert . 
`` Far off in the distance twinkled the many hundred lights of London ; and among all the busy haunts they illuminated , poor Lucretia had not a single friend . 
`` Very early in the morning , a message was sent to uncle Fitzherbert , -- and according to aunt Sandford 's directions , I dressed myself as splendidly as possible ; for I must acknowledge , I felt exceedingly anxious concerning my reception . 
At our usual breakfasting hour , Captain Somerville came to my cabin , and told me that a carriage and four , with servants in the Fitzherbert livery , were on the bank of the river . 
Phaeton himself might have been proud of the horses ; the servants were in rich liveries of grey and silver ; the polished harness glittered in the morning sun ; the Fitzherbert arms were gorgeously blazoned on the pannels of the carriage ; and the carriage itself was much more superb than any thing I had ever seen in New England . 
`` The papers are full of the arrival of Miss Lucretia Fitzherbert , the newly discovered American heiress , niece of the Honourable Edmund Fitzherbert of Tudor Lodge . 
Certain it is that every allusion Lucretia had made to Captain Somerville , was exceedingly painful to Miss Osborne , excepting where she wrote , `` We talked of you till a late hour . '' 
My father 's health fails daily ; and long , long before you return to us , Lucretia , I fear the dear venerable old man will have gone to his last home . 
I wonder he was not captivated with you , Lucretia , -- you are so very much like each other . 
My brother says , ` Tell Lucretia I am the same sincere well-wisher ; ' and my father adds , ` You must leave a corner of your paper , that I may try to hold a pen long enough to give her my blessing . ' 
Poor Grace goes from room to room , and looks at every memento of you with such utter sadness , that one would think you were actually in your grave ; and when she hears a knock , she will sometimes start , -- and then check herself , as she says , ` I was thinking Lucretia was at the door . ' 
He is a professed connoisseur in female beauty , -- and he was of course disappointed in Miss Fitzherbert . 
This will bring Lucretia forward to the best advantage ; and perhaps we all love our friends better when we have reason to be proud of them . 
I can see that her vivacity and good sense gain upon his affections daily . 
She is indeed a fine girl . 
No one can know her without admiring her . 
When you sent to England in 1760 , to inquire concerning Lucretia 's connexions , he was very sick at Manilla , and a profligate relation of his palmed the story upon his creditors , in order to relieve himself from temporary embarrassment . 
She herself had not received a single line ; and Lucretia , ignorant how much she was wounding her friend , spoke of him as her almost constant companion . 
Perhaps this unaccountable neglect had given additional fervour to political feelings , ever deeply imbedded in Miss Oshorne 's heart , though her bashful lips had seldom given them utterance . 
In these epistles , Lucretia made no further complaints of `` magnificent formality ; '' on the contrary , her expressions were those of `` a heart reeling with its fulness ; '' and poor deserted Grace felt them enter into her soul , like sharpened steel . 
`` Lucretia will be there soon , I suppose , '' observed Mrs. Percival ; '' and her claims are of course prior to mine . '' 
`` To Miss Fitzherbert , '' replied the younger Osborne . 
I is among the family portraits which decorate my bed-chamber ; and was taken , I am told , for my grandmother Fitzherbert . 
`` Long long , Lucretia , may you enjoy the scenes you love so well , and the society you so well know how to adorn . 
`` May you ever be happy , dear Lucretia ; -- particularly may you be fortunate in that important step -- the only one , save death , which can never be retraced . 
Without answering his salutation , or even requesting him to be seated , uncle said in a hurried , business tone , ` Are you willing to take the name and arms of Fitzherbert ? ' 
`` Uncle Fitzherbert is evidently much pleased with my approaching marriage ; and from uncle Hutchinson 's letter , I should judge he was well nigh mad with joy . 
` She is a most beautiful creature , ' said he ; ` and you will forgive me , Lucretia , if I did love her , since she did not consider my love worth her acceptance . 
I have long ceased to regret it ; for I am convinced she has not mind enough to make me happy . ' 
`` However , in one fortnight I shall be a wedded wife ; and I ought not to indulge any doubtings and misgivings ; for I never had reason to doubt Colonel Fitzherbert 's integrity . 
Colonel Fitzherbert laughed at me for paying court to St. Dunstan just at this time . 
My last lines were written on the 14th ; and uncle Fitzherbert was then in fine health , and animated to a remarkable degree . 
`` Colonel Fitzherbert wrote all the particulars of his death to uncle Hutchinson , immediately after his decease ; but grief and the pressure of cares , to which I have been unaccustomed , have hitherto prevented my writing to you . 
I therefore told Colonel Fitzherbert that I thought it best to go to America with several ladies of my acquaintance , who sail in September ; and added my resolution to be married at the house where we first met . 
I will not suffer myself to doubt the word of Colonel Fitzherbert ; and if , as I believe , no blame can be attached to him , I assure you I love him too well to require from him any romantic sacrifice . 
Is a man of Colonel Fitzherbert 's rank and talents , and the nephew of your greatest benefactor , to be treated in this unbecoming manner , because a simpleton of eighteen chooses to talk about dying , as if it was a matter of pleasure or convenience ? 
I suppose brother Henry had scolded her , -- or papa had frowned on the trembling little one . 
I dare say Colonel Fitzherbert made up the story about her rejection , wholly from motives of delicacy and generosity . 
Lucretia was on her way to New England , before this letter reached Grosvenor Square . 
She , as well as Lucretia , had long supposed Miss Osborne 's affections fixed on Captain Somerville ; and in the few visits she had lately paid her , it was impossible not to notice her declining health . 
These circumstances , united to what Miss Fitzherbert had written , gave rise to uncomfortable fears . 
The matron was not cruel at heart ; but she sometimes thought to herself , `` Brother Hutchinson will break his heart to have Lucretia 's large property go wholly out of the family . 
It does seem to be a pity for Lucretia to run the risk of losing her bright prospects , for the sake of a puny little girl , who will not live long to enjoy any thing , whether or no , -- for she has had consumption handed down to her both from the father 's and the mother 's side , for ten generations . '' 
As for Colonel Fitzherbert , he might well have envied Tantalus and Ixion their torments . 
If his heart had ever known genuine affection , Miss Osborne certainly had inspired it ; but when he was aware of Lucretia 's vast expectations , -- when he witnessed the splendour and influence of her high-born uncle , -- when he saw her admired in the first literary circles , and daily becoming more polished by intercourse with the fashionable world , -- he regretted the tie that bound him to her humble friend . 
He respected Lucretia , -- and he had deceived her by the most direct falsehood . 
The two men-of-war occupied by Colonel Fitzherbert 's troops , fired a heavy salute as she passed , for the betrothed wife of their commander was on board . 
Lucretia had preferred accompanying a few friends in the London Packet , to an escort so warlike as that which attended her lover . 
A separation of eight or ten weeks had of course taken place ; but the moment the brig was recognised by the national vessels , one of them lowered a boat , -- the packet slackened sail , as it was swiftly rowed toward her , and ten minutes after , Colonel Fitzherbert was on board . 
When Lucretia saw his tall , elegant figure , when she listened to the voice that had , for the last two months , been heard only in her dreams , all her doubts and cares were forgotten ; and she received him with a warm and frank affection , which she made no attempt to conceal ; but his brow was troubled , -- he seemed absent and uneasy , -- and though unbounded in his gallantry , it was too much like the heartless obsequiousness of habit . 
said Lucretia , her very plain face brightening with eagerness and joy as she spoke . 
Lucretia playfully threw her handkercief to his face , as she smiled , and said , `` Aunt Sandford is just as precise , impatient , and good-hearted as ever , I suppose ; and quite as learned with regard to the comparative value of Mecklin and Brussels ? '' 
asked Miss Fitzherbert . 
We will not develope the train of association in Miss Fitzherbert 's mind , but her expression saddened , and her voice was hurried , as she asked , `` Have you seen the Osbornes ? '' 
inquired Lucretia . 
Colonel Fitzherbert 's face was even redder than his uniform ; and he angrily answered , `` I have not called , madam . 
Miss Fitzherbert did not attempt to reply . 
The tears started to her eyes , and she turned away to conceal them . 
`` Pardon me , Miss Fitzherbert , '' said he , aloud . 
I assure you , dearest Lucretia , I did not mean to wound your feelings . '' 
`` The offence that I can not find it in my heart to forgive you , Frederic , must indeed be of a deep die , '' she replied . 
As she finished speaking , she joined a group of ladies on the quarter-deck , and the conversation became general , until the vessel drew up to the wharf . 
Lucretia 's heart rose painfully high , as scenes so well remembered and beloved came upon her view . 
It seemed to her as if the packet would never reach its destined point ; and scarcely had its motion ceased , ere she was on shore , enfolded in the arms of her uncle . 
Lucretia begged that they might be detained no longer than was necessary ; and Colonel Fitzherbert having promised soon to follow with the servants and baggage , they gave their parting salutations to the ladies on board , and ordered the coachman to drive on . 
Our traveller felt a sort of bewildered and incredulous sensation , when she found herself whirled along in the self-same carriage , and through the self-same streets , which she had two years before traversed with such totally different feelings . 
She had then formed many plans for the single life on which she thought herself firmly and forever resolved ; she had returned the affianced bride of the very man for whose sake she had made the resolution . 
She was then anxious and frightened at the weight of splendour she saw in prospect ; it now sat easily and gracefully upon her ; and so great was her improvement in mind and manners , that few would have recognised the American orphan , in the richly dressed and highly cultivated English heiress . 
The changes that had taken place in Boston , seemed to Lucretia even greater than her own . 
Lucretia had heard much of the increasing disorders in her native land ; but she was not prepared for a sight like this ; and her native generosity and high ideas of freedom , for a moment overcame the influences that surrounded her . 
`` The Spanish have insulted England , '' she said , `` and the government have paused to deliberate , and condescended to reason with them ; but when Americans remonstrate , it seems they are answered in a voice of thunder . 
Miss Fitzherbert had no attention to give to such discussions at that moment , -- for the home of her youth was before her . 
Jethro flourished his whip , and the horses gave a bound , as if they partook of her impatience . 
To press her earliest friend again and again to her heart , -- to ask a thousand questions , -- to call the servants around her , and bid them welcome , -- seemed but the work of a moment . 
`` My heart is not changed , '' replied Lucretia . 
`` I was going to scold at you for your silly conduct ; but it seems you did not receive my letter ; and we are really glad to have you married here ; -- only , taking one thing with another , I think it would have been far better to have had the wedding before you left Fitzherbert Hall . '' 
`` Why , my child , I do not think it is proper for you to ask Colonel Fitzherbert questions about her . 
`` Heaven knows , I would sooner suffer myself , than give him pain at any time , '' replied Lucretia ; `` but why should that offend him , aunt Sandford ? '' 
Grace told me last week that she would not marry Colonel Fitzherbert , even if he wished it . 
I do not believe a word of that ; but then it shows plainly enough that she cares nothing about him . 
So if she does look a little paler than she did when you went away , do n't imagine she is dying for love . 
-- Consumption has run in her family for years . '' 
`` Oh , Aunt , '' exclaimed Lucretia , `` why did n't you tell me she was ill before this ? '' 
Lucretia gave her a most anxious and distressed look . 
She saw that her aunt wished to prepare her for something , which she had not the courage to reveal . 
All her native impetuosity rushed to her heart . 
`` I must see her now -- this very hour , '' said she . 
tell her Lucretia Fitzherbert is here . '' 
The wind blew the leaves as Lucretia entered the room , and she noticed one page all blistered with tears . 
Lucretia saw the dreadful truth at a single glance ; and when she drew her closely to her heart , that heart ached almost to bursting . 
After a very long silence , Lucretia brushed back her disordered hair , and making an effort to be cheerful , said , `` Where is your father and Henry , dear Grace ? '' 
`` They have gone to Cambridge , to remain until night , '' she replied . 
A thrill ran through Miss Fitzherbert 's whole frame . 
The idea that Lucretia suspected the truth , now , for the first time , flashed upon her mind ; and without reply she buried her face in her handkerchief . 
Another long pause was interrupted by Miss Fitzherbert , who in a frenzied tone , said , `` Tell me , Grace , and tell me truly , -- did Colonel Fitzherbert offer you marriage before he left America ? '' 
It is a sad thing , Lucretia . '' 
`` I , for one , can not be happy on such conditions , '' replied Lucretia . 
In accents of exceeding tenderness , she added , `` You are ill , dear Grace ; -- very ill and wretched . '' 
`` Colonel Fitzherbert still loves you , '' said Lucretia . 
exclaimed Lucretia , springing on her feet , and pacing the room in the agony of her spirit , `` it istrue ; -- it istrue . '' 
It was not long before Lucretia assumed her native firmness and energy . 
`` This subject is too distressing to us both , '' said she . 
I have only one question more to ask ; if Colonel Fitzherbert were again free , would you marry him ? '' 
said Lucretia . 
With affected calmness , Miss Fitzherbert then asked some general questions about her work , her books , & c. but the conversation soon became languid . 
Lucretia leaned her head on her hand in silence , watching the various fantastic figures formed by the glowing embers ; and as Grace looked steadly at the same object , the tear that would not drop , rested on her long , drooping eye-lash , like liquid pearl . 
`` You must excuse me , Lucretia , if I retire to my bed , '' said she . 
Lucretia and Phœbe supported her to her couch . 
For an hour or more , her friend continued to walk softly about the chamber , now and then pausing to bathe her head , or whisper some word of kindness . 
Phœbe prepared food ; but though Miss Fitzberbert had tasted very slight refreshment since her arrival , it was with difficulty she constrained herself to eat a few morsels , just to satisfy the kind-hearted servant . 
`` You see I am restless , dear Grace , '' said she . 
Lucretia stooped down and kissed her fading cheek ; `` To-morrow , and next day , and every day , my dear girl , '' said she . 
When she descended to the library , she walked the room slowly for several minutes , endeavouring to collect her scattered thoughts , and decide on the course of conduct she was to pursue . 
Curiosity was powerfully excited , and , without trusting herself to think of the impropriety of such an action , she eagerly read its contents . 
It appeared to have been dated on the same day that she had received Lucretia 's letter of November 15th ; and indicated a powerful struggle in the mind of the conscientious girl . 
In one line she expressed a resolution to make her friend acquainted with Colonel Fitzherbert 's real character ; -- in the next , she seemed to doubt whether this purpose had been formed from a sense of duty , or from pride , resentment , or some other lurking evil of her nature . 
Lucretia was not , till now , aware how strongly she had hoped that her fears were all ungrounded ; -- but here was confirmation strong . 
The sparkling cup of happiness was indeed broken at her feet . 
Colonel Fitzherbert had spent the afternoon at Governor Hutchinson 's , in a state of mind scarcely more enviable than that of Montezuma , when stretched on his bed of flaming coals . 
He had been told that Lucretia 's sudden visit was owing to her slight illness . 
However , he compelled himself to reject all thoughts except Lucretia 's princely fortune . 
He was alone in the parlour when she entered ; and having studied his part , he performed it well . 
Raising her hand to his lips , he complained that , after having been separated so long , she should leave him thus abruptly . 
Whatever Lucretia 's feelings were , her manner was polite , though melancholy , and fairly baffled all conjecture . 
With a constrained smile , Lucretia answered , `` I leave that matter entirely to you and Aunt Sandford . 
Once the thought crossed his mind , that Lucretia knew all , but could not persuade herself to relinquish him . 
The admiration she had evinced during their first acquaintance , which he then thought somewhat too undisguised , was now remembered with pleasure ; and with no little exultation he recalled to his mind , how often a single remark from him had made her deaf to all the eloquence and flattery that surrounded her in England . 
Madam Sandford was even more surprised , rejoiced , and puzzled ; Governor Hutchinson , ignorant of his nephew 's ` hair-breadth ` scapes , ' was warm and sincere in his congratulations ; and all , save the heart of Lucretia , ` went merry as a marriage bell . ' 
She passed a sleepless , mlserable night . 
Wepass over the very pathetic meeting between Lucretia and the elder Mr. Osborne , as well as her various interviews with Grace ; and leaving sundry unimportant matters to the reader 's imagination , we hasten on to the first of December , -- the eventful day fixed upon for this most inauspicious wedding . 
Her arrangements were altogether splendid , -- such as were well worthy of the sole descendant of the aristocratic house of Fitzherbert . 
The rooms were tastefully festooned with evergreens and artificial roses ; in front of two large lamps were placed the armorial bearings of Somerville and Fitzherbert , richly painted on glass ; a full band of music was stationed near the house ; and at a very early hour in the evening , the whole mansion was brilliantly illuminated . 
There was Governor Hutchinson in his richest garb , seated in a chair covered with blue velvet ; there was Miss Sandford smiling and courtesying to her visiters , -- trying with all her might to be tranquil , but ever and anon moving about to see that the transparencies were rightly fitted to the lamps , or that the paper ornaments were safe from fire ; there too , in a few moments , appeared Lucretia Fitzherhert by the side of her bridegroom , -- glittering in silks and jewels , yet pale , anxious , and agitated , -- more like a victim decorated for sacrifice , than the joyful bride of the man she loved . 
`` If the Englishman you spoke of , Miss Fitzherbert , could be present at this time , I think he would never repeat his question , whether Massachusetts was on the Pacificcoast . '' 
`` The music surely is not of a warlike character , '' said Colonel Fitzherbert , smiling . 
Oh , what a moment that was for Lucretia ! 
Her colour went and came , as rapidly as the lightning flickers in an over-charged cloud . 
During the prayer which Doctor Byles uttered for the happiness and prosperity of those he was about to unite , the death-like paleness of her cheek , and her lip , cold , damp , and quivering , betrayed emotion deep and agonizing . 
When he paused , -- with a quick gasp , and a start , sudden as that which precedes a violent death , she said , `` Stop , sir ! 
I can never be the wife of Colonel Fitzherbert . 
Her eyes were fixed with intense expression , her cheek glowed , and her stature seemed to rise with the loftiness of her feelings , as she left the apartment . 
The bridegroom listened to her unexpected declaration , and watched her retiring figure , with a look strangely complicated and embarrassed . 
His proud heart , stung to the very core with shame , and his naturally violent temper maddened into fury , Colonel Fitzherbert rushed out of the house , and was not again seen there that night . 
Governor Hutchinson and his sister were not present to hear the eager inquiries , the shrewd conjectures , and the malicious whispers of their departing guests ; for they had both followed Lucretia , the instant she left the room . 
In her chamber they found the agitated girl with her face concealed in the pillow , sobbing , as if the rushing tide of feeling would burst the proud heart that had so long shut in its waters . 
Miss Sandford began to sob out , `` Oh , Lucretia ! '' 
but Governor Hutchinson interrupted her by saying , in a stern voice , `` Lucretia Fitzherbert , what do you mean by this disgraceful conduct ? '' 
`` I know not , sir , what reason the house of Fitzherbert have to be proud of an union with the house of Somerville , '' replied Lucretia , somewhat haughtily . 
The high colour subsided from her face , as she added , `` But it was not things like these I thought of . 
`` I am sorry that you should have taken so much trouble , dear aunt , '' rejoined Lucretia ; `` but as for the expense , there is gold enough in my desk to pay you for ten such weddings , and it is all your own . '' 
said Governor Hutchinson , eyeing her with excessive displeasure . 
`` Lucretia Fitzherbert , -- one of two things you must do , -- either implore the Colonel 's pardon , and marry him this night , or quit my house forever . '' 
`` You think more meanly of him than I do , '' answered Lucretia , her lip slightly curling with contempt . 
She took her cloak , and made a motion to throw it over her shoulders . 
-- She hesitated one moment , -- and melting into tears , threw herself on her knees before them , as she said , `` Yet I would not part in anger . 
`` But you will , aunt Sandford , '' said Lucretia , in a tone of entreaty . 
`` You were ever kind to me ; '' and as she spoke , she hid her head in the matron 's lap , like an indulged and repentant child . 
`` Only say , dear Lucretia , that you will marry him , '' whispered she . 
exclaimed Lucretia , rising indignantly . 
Lucretia watched her as she stalked out of the apartment in high displeasure , -- and her soul , ever rapid and vehement in its changes , sprung back elastic from the momentary touch of remorse . 
`` A Fitzherbert is not to be twice insulted , '' said she , and calling for her servants , she ordered one to pack a trunk of clothes , and another to ask Governor Hutchinson if the carriage might be ordered to Queen-street . 
Answer was returned that any thing which might facilitate Miss Fitzherbert 's departure , was entirely at her service . 
Lucretia bit her lip at this instance of civil rudeness ; but she concealed her resentment , and merely said to the servant , `` Bring the horses to the back door , Richard ; and avoid the main street . '' 
The fear of meeting Colonel Fitzherbert in his present exasperated state , or of encountering the curious gaze of some lingering remnant of the wedding party , occasioned these orders . 
Could the crowd have that night discovered the wonderful particulars with which all Boston rung for weeks after , Lucretia would unquestionably have found the popular excitement very troublesome during her short ride . 
The streets were almost entirely deserted ; and as Lucretia and her servants passed along on their way to Mr. Osborne 's , they scarcely noticed a human figure , save the sentinels , who , with shouldered arms , slowly paced their accustomed rounds . 
Mr. Osborne and his son were the only ones waking in Queen-street , when Miss Fitzherbert arrived ; and it may well be believed that their astonishment almost amounted to terror , when the exiled bride came into their presence so unexpectedly . 
Lucretia in a tone of sportive authority told them , they must perforce , without asking any questions , grant a lodging to her and her train , for several days ; -- and then , whispering to the old gentleman , she promised , as soon as the servants were disposed of , to tell him all . 
Upon this hint , Phœbe was called , -- a cheerful fire kindled in the kitchen , and all necessary arrangements speedily made for her attendants . 
As soon as something like quiet was restored , Lucretia gave a brief outline of the events which had recently passed , -- together with the causes that led to them . 
When Lucretia gave a minute account of the letter , the ring , and the rose , -- when she mentioned the falsehood that had been told to her at the commencement of her ill-fated engagement , and the uniform course of duplicity which Colonel Fitzherbert had afterward pursued , the good old man never uttered one word of reproach against the wretched being who had destroyed the health and happiness of his only daughter . 
Miss Fitzherbert had resolved not to see Grace , until the ensuing morning ; but before she retired to rest , Phœbe came with a message from her young lady , begging her to look in upon her , if she only gave time to say good night . 
Lucretia could never deny any thing to the little beauty ; but she kissed her affectionately , and said , `` You must not talk to-night ; indeed you must not , dear Grace . '' 
`` I will not , '' she replied . 
She paused a moment , and looked on the full , round moon , which , through an opening in the curtain , shed its holy light on her seraphic countenance ; -- then , pressing Lucretia 's hand most earnestly , she added , `` It was alone for my sake , I know ; but I do wish you could still have loved and respected him . 
It was but one fault , Lucretia ; and the best of us need forgiveness . '' 
Her friend put her finger to her lip , in signal of prohibition , -- and smiling on her with unutterable tenderness , bade her good night . 
The next day , Doctor Willard called as usual , -- and finding that Grace had passed a restless night , and was then sleeping , he was about to depart ; but seeing Miss Fitzherbert on the stairs , he sprang forward with all the ready frankness that characterized his manner , and clasping her hand in both of his , exclaimed , `` You are a fine , noble-spirited girl , Miss Fitzherbert . 
The Doctor warmly congratulated his friend on so valuable an accession to his family , and entered into a very pleasant and animated conversation , -- in the course of which he observed that Colonel Fitzherbert had thrown up his commission , that the resignation had been given in to General Gage that very morning ; and lastly that Governor Hutchinson had had one short interview with his nephew , in which the latter had desired to have his property collected and sent on to the South , whither he had departed as secretly and expeditiously as possible . 
He was highly indignant at what he styled Lucretia 's absurd conduct , and ever after treated her with extreme coldness . 
For reasons sufficiently obvious , this subject was seldom alluded to in the domestic circle at Queen-street ; and Lucretia had now no intercourse whatever with Governor Hutchinson 's family ; nevertheless , she heard once or twice in the course of the season , that Colonel Somerville -LRB- as he now chose to be called -RRB- remained at the South , plunged in every excess of dissipation . 
Lucretia , now an inmate of the family , read to her , supported her across the chamber , and watched her brief , gentle slumbers , with an intense interest , painfully tinged with self-reproach . 
She was the cause of this premature decay , -- innocent indeed , but still the cause . 
Yet there was one , who suffered even more than Lucretia , -- though he was never conscious of giving one moment 's pain to the object of his earliest affection . 
Henry and Lucretia sat on either side , pressing her hands in mournful tenderness ; Doctor Willard leaned over her chair , and looked up to the unclouded sky , as if he reproached it for mocking him with brightness ; and her father watched the hectic flush upon her cheek , with the firmness of Abraham , when he offered his only son upon the altar . 
She had asked Lucretia to place Somerville 's rose on the window beside her . 
One solitary blossom was on it ; and she reached forth her weak hand to pluck it ; but its leaves scattered beneath her trembling touch . 
She looked up to Lucretia , with an expression which her friend could never forget , -- and one cold tear slowly glided down her pallid cheek . 
Lucretia had a bunch of purple violets fastened in her girdle , -- and with a forced smile , she placed them in the hands of her dying friend . 
She looked at them a moment with a sort of abstracted attention , and an expression strangely unearthly , as she said , `` I have thought that wild flowers might be the alphabet of angels , -- whereby they write on hills and fields mysterious truths , which it is not given our fallen nature to understand . 
`` It is very beautiful , '' said Lucretia , in a subdued tone . 
`` It is such a one as weloved , '' she answered . 
Her voice grew faint , and there was a quick gasp , -- as if the rush of memory was too powerful for her weak frame . 
Doctor Willard hastily prepared a cordial , and offered it to her lips . 
Those lips were white and motionless ; her long , fair eye-lashes drooped , but trembled not . 
-- He placed his hand on her side ; -- the heart that had loved so well , and endured so much , had throbbed its last . 
The result of all this , was a long letter from Governor Hutchinson , thanking Lucretia for various munificent presents , conjuring her to return to them , and begging forgiveness for the hasty resentment which had separated them from one they loved so much . 
When Miss Fitzherbert showed this epistle to Mr. Osborne , he drew her affectionately to his bosom , and said , `` You shall do just as your heart dictates , my dear child . 
Yet for her sake , you are dear to me as a daughter ; and who shall bathe the old man 's throbbing head , or smooth his pillow , when you are away ? 
Above all , who shall talk to me of her that is gone , and give relief to the troubled soul by sharing all its griefs ? '' 
`` You still have Henry left , my dear sir , '' replied Lucretia , with a tearful smile . 
Lucretia kissed away a tear before it had time to fall , and immediately answered the benefactors of her youth , by saying , that her love and gratitude had never abated , -- that she should think much of them , and visit them often , but that her heart was weary of splendour , -- that she loved the quiet home of Mr. Osborne , and thought it her duty to remain with him during the remainder of his pilgrimage . 
A postscript added , that letters were found among his papers , some directed to Captain Frederic Somerville , and others to Colonel Frederic S. Fitzherbert . 
In one place he mentioned Lucretia , -- said she had treated him as he deserved , -- that he had ceased to breathe her name with curses , and that his respect and kind wishes would ever follow her . 
All the wrongs Lucretia had endured , were forgotten . 
She only remembered her youthful lover , splendid in his talents , -- ardent and generous in his feelings . 
`` Were he but alive , '' thought she , `` I could welcome even insult from his lips , -- nay , kneel to thank him for one look , -- though that look were hatred . '' 
In a most imploring voice , she called out , `` Wherever Lucretia Fitzherbert is , carry me there , -- oh , carry me there . '' 
The first words the woman uttered were , `` Fitzherbert ! 
Fitzherbert ! 
Henry Osborne had , on the first alarm , joined the vast multitude collected in King 's - street ; but his father , at Lucretia 's earnest request had remained at home , listening to the distant tumult with the most intense anxiety . 
Lucretia entered just as she finished speaking , bringing with her some cordial she had been preparing . 
The sufferer raised her withered hands , and looked upward with an expression of fervent gratitude . 
`` Send them all away , '' whispered she , as Lucretia offered her the cup ; `` I have somewhat to say to you . '' 
As soon as her wish was intimated the physician and the servants withdrew ; and even before the door had closed , she clasped Lucretia 's hand in hers , pressed it to her lips , and kissed it again and again with frantic joy . 
`` I had not hoped to die thus , '' she said . 
Miss Fitzherbert would have taken this for the ravings of insanity , -- but the remark she had heard her make on her way to Hollis-street church , the day Mr. Whitfield preached there ; her conduct at Mr. Wilson 's funeral ; and her emotions when viewing the portrait , formed a strange and puzzling coincidence . 
`` Poor woman , '' said she , `` what can occasion the interest you take in me ? '' 
The invalid looked up as if imploring from her that compassion and tenderness which the rest of the world denied her . 
`` Could you , '' said she , `` endure the thought that you were related to such an outcast in creation as I am ? '' 
`` I could welcome any thing to my heart that was connected with a mother I have been taught to love and respect , '' replied Lucretia . 
`` Oh , Lucretia Fitzherbert , '' rejoined this mysterious being , `` may the end of your pilgrimage be more cheerful than mine has been . 
inquired Lucretia , in a tone of heartfelt pity . 
`` But , '' said Lucretia , in a faltering voice , `` my mother and Gertrude May were not sisters ? '' 
But you have not a drop of Fitzherbert blood in your veins . '' 
She covered her eyes with both her hands , as she spoke , as if she feared to see the effect her tidings produced . 
Lucretia was , for an instant , deadly pale ; and she grasped her grandmother 's arm in a manner that expressed more plainly than words could have done , the intensity of her feelings , -- the eagerness of her curiosity . 
She married Captain Fitzherbert , about the same time that Harry Wilson said he married Gertrude . 
The daughter of Captain Fitzherbert , I thought , would be rich and respectable , -- but who could tell what would become of Harry Wilson 's poor child . 
Lucretia could not look upon the poor wretch with any thing like resentment ; but a consciousness of degradation , and shame for the gross imposture that had been practised , troubled and confused her mind , -- and she wept in silence . 
`` I do not mourn that you have told me now , '' replied Lucretia ; `` but that you had not told me years before . 
Lucretia did as she desired , -- and in the depth of her pity , she even imprinted a kiss on the wrinkled forehead of one , whose guilt and sufferings had all been for her sake . 
said she , in a shuddering tone . 
Here the invalid seemed exhausted with the extreme exertion she had made ; and Lucretia , alarmed at the rapid changes in her countenance , hastened to call the physician . 
`` I do , I do , '' replied Lucretia . 
She was about to add that she hoped she would yet live many years , happy and respectable ; but an unbidden feeling rose up to prevent her utterance ; and surely in one whose pride of rank had been so peculiarly fostered by education and circumstances , this tinge of the world 's vanity might be forgiven . 
When Miss Fitzherbert descended to the parlour , she was startled to find the Doctor engaged in fastening a bandage around Henry 's arm . 
`` True , '' rejoined the Doctor ; `` even Miss Lucretia Fitzherbert has become a proselyte ; and surely she would not , without powerful reasons . '' 
Lucretia blushed deeply . 
`` I told you , '' said she , `` that the poor woman above stairs is very weak . 
Though Henry had said his wound was so very slight , he now began to think it necessary for his kind nurse to examine it , and tighten the bandages , -- then it was a long time before the handkerchief which supported it was rightly adjusted ; and no doubt he would have resorted to a thousand other artifices to secure the presence and attentions of a beloved object , had not Lucretia very decidedly said she must return to the sick stranger , and leave Phœbe in attendance upon him . 
She met Doctor Willard , just leaving the chamber . 
It did indeed bring relief to Lucretia 's mind to know that the unhappy being had gone beyond the reach of earthly suffering , and that the shame of such a connexion was spared her ; but this feeling was deeply mingled with self-reproach . 
Had she lived , no sympathy could possibly have existed between them ; yet it seemed very heartless to rejoice at the death of one to whom she was so nearly allied by nature . 
True , none of them were much superior to the miserable woman whose strange story had produced such an unexpected change in the prospects of Lucretia Fitzherbert ; but they were fellow-citizens , slaughtered by the hand of violence and oppression . 
When the fraud which had placed Lucretia in the possession of rank and fortune , was first disclosed to her , it seemed like some bewildered dream . 
The more she thought on the subject , the more the value of what she was about to lose increased in her estimation . 
It must be confessed , she was sorely tempted to conceal the disgraceful truth , -- but none of Lucretia 's faults had a tinge of meanness or hypocrisy ; and she would have scorned to purchase a crown at the expense of generosity and candour . 
Accordingly she frankly disclosed all the circumstances to her astonished friends , a few days after her grandmother 's death . 
Lucretia opened the paper , and read as follows : `` It is long since I have written to you , -- longer than I once thought it ever would be ; but heart-trying scenes prevented it , after my return from England ; and when their bitterness had passed away , I was too much depressed to make any mental exertion . 
If my beloved wife had always known herself as Lucretia Fitzherbert , she would have rejoiced to give genius like yours every opportunity to improve itself . 
Lucretia -LRB- when shall I learn to call her so -RRB- desires her sincerest love . 
Lucretia assumed the name of Gertrude Wilson ; and again appeared in the newspapers far and wide as the heroine of a wonderful and romantic story . 
Duringthe first year after Colonel Fitzherbert 's death , Lucretia -LRB- whom we must now call Gertrude Wilson -RRB- suffered much more acutely than Grace had ever done . 
They spent their time between Tudor Lodge and Fitzherbert Hall ; and Edward Percival had the satisfaction of seeing his young wife the blazing star of fashion and of beauty , -- yet as exemplary , as docile , and as affectionate , as she was when she first left the Convent of St. Vallier . 
