Ike was not a bad boy , in the wicked sense of the word bad ; but he had a constant proclivity for tormenting every one that he came in contact with ; a resistless tendency for having a hand in everything that was going on ; a mischievous bent , that led him into continual trouble , that brought on him reproaches from all sides , and secured for him a reputation that made him answerable for everything of a wrong character that was done in the neighborhood . 
A barber 's pole could not be removed from the barber 's door and placed beside the broker 's , but it must be imputed to `` that plaguy Ike ; '' all clandestine pulls at door-bells in the evenings were done by `` that plaguy Ike ; '' if a ball or an arrow made a mistake and dashed through a window , the ball or the arrow belonged to `` that plaguy Ike ; '' if on April Fool 's day a piece of paper were found pasted on a door-step , putting grave housekeepers to the trouble and mortification of trying to pick up an imagined letter , the blame was laid to `` that plaguy Ike ; '' and if a voice was heard from round the corner crying `` April Fool ! '' 
or `` sold , '' those who heard it said , at once , it was `` that plaguy Ike 's . '' 
On the afternoon that she had named for the visit , she and Ike were together in the little sitting-room , with the antique buffet in one corner , and the old chairs and tables arranged around , the walls hung with pictures of Joseph and his Brethren , and the Prodigal Son , and David and Goliath , -- which last Ike admired the most , because he always fancied himself to be David , and Goliath a big butcher down street who had once set a dog at him , on whom he wished to avenge himself , and thought he could if there was n't a a law against `` slinging stones . '' 
`` That 's his mane that you call his tail , '' said Ike , with some show of being offended ; `` and , suppose he has got five legs ! 
`` Well I must digest my spectacles , '' replied she , smiling upon him , `` before I speak another time . 
`` Yes 'm , '' said Ike , dutifully , and passed out , whistling Villikins and his Dinah . 
As the dame sat at her work , after despatching Ike upon his mission , her door-bell rang , and , hastening to open it , Miss Chatterton burst upon her in the full flower of fashion and smiles . 
The ladies sat down to their talk , while Ike upon the curbstone sat looking for his future adviser up and down the street , amusing himself by occasionally throwing pebbles at a passing dog , kicking his heels into the gravel , or throwing his cap in the air that it might drop upon his head . 
`` I wonder , '' said he , `` what sort of an old chap this Roger is , that is going to look after me ! 
`` I know where Mrs. Partingtonlives , '' replied Ike . 
And her nephew Ike -- do you know him ? 
I hear strange tales about him , and little that 's good . 
Is this Ike an intelligent lad ? '' 
The intended guardian hobbled on his course , while Ike , with a mischievous twinkle in his eye and the dime in his hand , stood looking after him until he turned the first corner , when he darted into the house , telling Mrs. Partington that the expected guest was on his way , and would arrive in about a quarter of an hour , and then dashed out again and down the street . 
He recognized the trick at a glance , and , with a half chagrin , said to himself , `` I 'll wager that Ike was the little villain that sent me on this circuit . 
if he were here , I 'd put more cane on him than would make a fashionable lady 's dress . 
Yet there 's method in him , and it is far more satisfactory to manage a rogue than a fool . '' 
I should have been here half an hour ago , if a young villain -- whom I strongly suspect to have been Ike himself -- had not sent me a mile out of my way to find you . 
He told me to turn this way and that way , and by stupidly following my nose I found myself just where I started from . 
I could have thrashed him for sending me round on so warm a day as this ; but , madam , he is , after all , merely a boy , true to the boyish instinct of fun . 
After greeting the company , he said , `` I am sorry to complain at such a time , mem , but I should have been here a full hour ago , but for your Ike . 
He turned again , with his nose blushing very red , and addressed Mrs. Partington : `` Madam , '' said he , `` I 've brought myself here to complain of your Ike . 
I looked bad enough before , but he has made me look a great deal worse , behind.I am a double-header , -- a man beside myself . 
You see , I was a little overcome by the heat of the day , and , sitting down a moment in the shade , fell asleep , when along comes Ike , and , as you see , he made a marked man of me . 
Everybody says it must be he who did it . 
Could I see with the eyes he has given me behind , I might , like some other people , laugh at my own fun , which privilege is now denied me . '' 
`` No , I do n't , neither , '' replied Ike ; `` I do n't do half so bad as they make out . '' 
The speech was received with applause by Ike , who had donned his guardian 's hat and gloves , and was standing leaning on his gold-headed cane . 
Mrs. Partington was astonished ; Roger was disposed to be indignant , but he fortunately remembered what he had just said , and contented himself with seeing Ike take them off . 
Roger was seated directly opposite Miss Chatterton , at Mrs. Partington 's right hand , while by her side Ike had taken his accustomed position . 
Ike had observed a disposition on the part of his guardian to speak low and confidential things to his opposite neighbor , Miss Chatterton , and his foot , as he sat by her side , just reached that of the old gentleman . 
He thought to himself what a prime thing it would be if he could touch his toe and make him believe that Miss Chatterton did it , and resolved to try it . 
`` I see how it is , '' said he , in some confusion ; `` it is another instance of the trickery of that plaguy Ike . 
Ike , as he saw the dénouement of his plot approaching , had made his escape just in time . 
The fact that Ike came in just then , coupled with the recent ringing , gave evidence of the cause of the latter , and Roger looked at him with an expression denoting a guardian 's feelings . 
`` Ike , '' said he , `` come here ; I am to have a hand in your bringing up . 
The party had by this time arisen , and , as he uttered the significant expression , he took her hand , which she did not withdraw , and whispered in her ear , `` It is a strange thing , -- but there are many strange things happening all the time , -- that an obdurate old bachelor should have been thus subjugated , and by such means ; but I am confident that it is a good fate which has brought us together , for which I must thank that plaguy Ike . '' 
And this was the way the guardianship for Ike began . 
The old lady reached down into her spacious pocket , and , taking out the old Constitution and Guerriere handkerchief , wiped her specs , as though she wished still for more light , while Ike amused himself by trundling Lion round the room , by his two hind legs , like a wheelbarrow . 
said Ike , as he read the fact in the papers , `` here 's O'Regan admitted to the Union . '' 
-- `` It means , '' said Ike , `` a new State . '' 
Ike had a better illustration , for he took the five preserved peaches on the plate , and put them all into one . 
She stood beating time as the waves of gauze moved hither and thither in illustration of the poetry of motion , while Ike amused himself by tearing up his theatre-bill , and putting it into a lady 's silk hood , which hung over the back of the front seat . 
said Mrs. Partington , in the morning , as Ike bounded into the room , jumped over a table , kicked down a chair , and concluded with turning a somerset , by which operation he succeeded in knocking two plates from the dresser . 
Ike stopped as she spoke , but looked up roguishly in her face , while he replied , `` Did n't you tell me to take my brimstone and molasses three mornings , and then skip three ? 
-- `` Should n't I be a Jew , '' said Ike , feeling the shape of his nose , `` to passoverthree mornings ? '' 
Mrs. Partington , whether she was aware of the atrocity or not , said nothing further , and Ike and Lion went out for a roll on the grass . 
Ike watched her , and thought what fun it would be to see her go up . 
She stopped as a beam of reflected sunshine came into her eyes with blinding force , filling her with surprise , as the sun lay by the west ; but could she have seen the sly look which Ike bore , on the opposite corner , as he thrust a piece of looking-glass into his pocket , she would have no longer wondered . 
The cats trouble the old lady 's gardening operations , though Ike has bought more than four quarts of torpedoes to throw out at them . 
asked the good man , as he was inquiring of Mrs. Partington with regard to the proclivities of Ike , who had a hard name in the neighborhood . 
He meant the direction for good or ill that the boy was taking . 
She gave Ike a five-cent piece to carry down to him . 
Her friend looked at her with compassionate benignity , but attempted no further explanation , while Ike sat endeavoring to make the sundered parts of the old lady 's cooler stick together , as he had seen Signor Blitz do . 
She pointed at Ike , who had secured a long-handled contribution-box out of the deacon 's pew , and had transformed it into an imaginary violoncello , playing upon it with the handle of a deceased palm-leaf fan , the fragments of which strewed the floor . 
She smiled again , and subsided into a calm , while Ike , with three chairs , and Lion harnessed to a table , filled with a clothes-basket , four chairs , and a water-bucket , was `` making believe '' a car in a procession on his own account . 
Just as one of the party was going to explain to her that she was lying under a misapprehension , Lion rushed in with Ike on his back , and the harmony of the circle was interrupted . 
She pointed to Ike as she spoke , who had donned the hat of the visitor , p676-159 and was making a feint to attack the stove-pipe with his cane , having on his arm a large wash-boiler cover for a shield , and a pair of fierce moustaches painted in soot upon his upper lip . 
Ike knew what he meant , and kept a safe distance from the cane . 
said Mrs. Partington to Ike , as they were going from church . 
-- `` I did n't take your thread , '' said Ike , who thought she alluded to the string by which the pencil was lowered upon the boy ; `` that was a fishing-line . '' 
The appeal was touching , and Ike was silent , thinking of the sling that David killed Goliath with and wondering if he could n't make one . 
Ike was engaged in twisting a fishing-line upon the big wheel . 
Ike all the while was watching Lion , as he lay growling in his sleep , and wondering if he was dreaming about him . 
shouted Ike , as he swung open the front-door . 
Mrs. Partington , thinking he meant the clothes-line in the back-yard , darted to the window , but everything was right . 
The night-caps swung to and fro by their strings , the dresses waved their long arms in the winds , and Ike 's galligaskins , inflated by the breeze , seemed struggling to be free . 
-- `` I meant the Atlantic Telegraph line , '' said he , with a face expressive of the joy of both hemispheres ; `` and Queen Victoria is going to send it to President Buchanan . '' 
-- `` It is n't a letter , '' cried he ; `` it is a cable under the water from one country to the other , over which messages can be sent . '' 
-- `` I guess they 'll be wrapped up in gutta-percha , '' replied Ike . 
She pondered on it , and did not see that Ike had tied her ball of yarn to the tongue of the bell , and was even then in a remote position , preparing to send messages of mischief , that would call her repeatedly to the door . 
She looked up from toeing out a woollen sock for Ike , and Ike , and took the bottle in her hand . 
Mr. Bib , with a smile , informed her that this was simply a cosmetic , harmless in its character , and intended to go upon the face , and not inside it ; whereupon she subsided into the toe of Ike 's stocking , murmuring something about `` leaking in . '' 
Ike , in the mean while , was amusing himself by rigging a martingale on Lion 's tail , securing that waggish member to his collar , and making him look as if he was scudding before the wind . 
though she shut her eyes just then , and Ike stole away during her abstraction , and was seen a moment after peeping round the corner at the ancient priestess of Pomona , who sells apples opposite , thinking what a fine thing it would be if a cart should come down and capsize her table . 
The blood mantled to her cheek , like the hue of a damask rose-bush in bloom on the side of a yellow-painted house ; heroism sat behind her spectacle-bows , and peeped out of the glasses ; while Ike was engaged in putting a clean paper dicky and a black cravat upon a `` marble bust of Pallas , '' just forninst our closet-door , -- only this , and nothing more . 
Ike here pulled her sleeve , at the same time kicking a big dog on the nose , who was smelling at her `` ridicule , '' and the old lady moved on amid the crowd . 
Mrs. Partingtonwas much surprised to find Ike , one rainy afternoon , in the spare room , with the rag-bag hung to the bed-post , which he was belaboring very lustily with his fists , as huge as two one-cent apples . 
He did not stop , and , merely replying `` training , '' continued to pitch in . 
She stood looking at him as he danced around the bag , busily punching its rotund sides . 
`` That 's the Morrissey touch , '' said he , giving one side a dig ; `` and that '' -- hitting the other side -- `` is the Benicia Boy . '' 
She said , `` Stop , '' and he immediately stopped , after he had given the last blow for Morrissey . 
Ike had read the `` Heraldwith all about the great prize fight '' in it , and had become entirely carried away with it . 
I have no doubt the sea is slewbrious , very -- '' -- `` And a great slew of people go to see it , '' said Ike , breaking in . 
The young man whistled faintly , and Ike at the instant knocked over an inkbottle with a feather-duster , in an attempt to kill a fly . 
This was illustrated , during the skating season , very capitally , by Ike . 
He had asked permission to remain at home , but Mrs. Partington told him , if he ever expected to be an `` iminent man , he must be acidulous in his studies ; '' and he went to school with a feeling something akin -- perhaps a second cousin -- to disappointment . 
His new skates were aching to be tried , and the dim , hazy atmosphere had in it a foreboding of snow . 
Temptation beset him from within and without . 
He gave him a small piece of a dark substance , and Ike went to school . 
-- `` Please , ma'am , '' said one of the scholars , `` Ike Partington 's sick . '' 
He sat with his head bowed down on his hands , and his teacher spoke to him . 
He looked up , as she spoke , and his paleness startled her . 
`` You had better go home , '' said she , in a tone of alarm ; `` perhaps the air will make you feel better . '' 
He went out , but the earth seemed sick to him . 
We publish this story for the benefit of little people who are interested in Ike , who might be induced , like him , to eat tobacco in order to get out of school . 
said Ike , who was rather interested in natural history . 
Ike stood watching the boy who drew up the water , pocketing the half-dimes so coolly , and wondered what he was going to buy with all his money , thinking how he could make it fly , if he had it . 
He had invested all his available funds in red crackers , and had n't a cent to bless himself with . 
They moved on , Mrs. Partington pondering the new idea , and Ike and Lion striving for the possession of the old lady 's umbrella . 
She was provoked because Ike did n't get the medal for his splendid composition on the `` American Eagle . '' 
He argued that through the eyes , ears , palate , nose , all arrived at the sensorium , and hence were feeling . 
She said this without her specs , the dark hair having deceived her , while Ike , more observing , sat watching his opening mouth as he spoke , wondering if he ever attempted to eat anything with that arrangement about it . 
said Mrs. Partington , with a tone of anxiety in her voice , and a large iron spoon in her hand , as Lion rushed into the kitchen , followed by Ike . 
The dog was almost covered up with a thick , coarse coffee-bag , and , in perfect sympathy with Ike , who was laughing tremendously , he wagged his caudality as if he liked the fun . 
was a ques tion that called for an answer ; and Lion looked up in the old lady 's face , with his mouth open and his eyes glistening , as much as to say , `` Look at me , Mistress P. , for I am all dressed up , you see . '' 
But he did n't say anything . 
`` That 's a crinoline , aunt , '' said Ike ; `` do n't you think it 's very overcoming ? '' 
-- `` It 's all the fashion , '' said Ike . 
cried she , breaking off in her subject shorter than pie-crust ; and well she might , for Lion was parading the floor in great glee , with one of the dame 's night-caps upon his head , tied snugly under the chin , while Ike stood looking on , with great complacency . 
Ike was much subdued by this , and , taking advantage of her momentary abstraction and three doughnuts , he whistled for Lion , and went out to play . 
Ike did n't respond ; but , Mrs. P. , hadst thou but glanced through the window , thou mightst have seen a little face , hid just below the window-sill , beaming with mirth and jollity , and it is more than probable that a portion of the coppers thou gavest the boy hath returned to plague the investor . 
-- `` ' T will be pretty burdensome , '' she replied , looking up to where the seven bunches hung which had been left after Ike made himself sick by eating the eighth green . 
he asked . 
She wondered why he turned away so suddenly , but supposed he had an errand round the corner . 
The old lady put the box of pills up on the top shelf , out of Ike 's way , lest he should take them by mistake , as he often did the preserved damsons . 
Ike dislikes composition where a theme is given out to be written upon by the scholars , and his credits are not very great for his efforts in that direction generally ; but one day he astonished the master and every one by an elaborate article on the Horse . 
Ike 's composition upon the Dog has obtained a worldwide celebrity , and has already been installed as a classic : THE DOG . 
Ike 's ideas of Politics are very profound , showing a remarkable astuteness in the mind of Young America : POLITICS . 
said Ike , dashing in with half a bunch of crackers in his hand . 
WhenTopple was in the horse-trade , he had his eyes constantly about him for a speculation , and one day , in Vermont he fell in , among other specimens , with a horse whose principal points were the points of bone projecting through his skin , -- a long , lean , lank , white animal , that had got some way beyond his teens , whose qualities as a good horse were vouched for by a neighbor , who said he had knowed him for twenty-four year , and a kinder critter never led oxen in a plough than he . 
The horse was bought at a discount , and shipped , with three others , on a car for Boston , where he arrived safe , but scarcely sound . 
Topple thought it a hard investment , and felt somewhat anxious as to how he should get his money back again , concluding at last that he would undoubtedly make enough on the other three to cover the loss which he must , he conceived , sustain on this one . 
He had him stabled , and then the idea occurred to Topple that he would attempt a little factitious excellence for the poor beast , and endeavor to put him off respectably . 
`` It 's always so , '' said Mrs. Partington , turning over in her hand a Spanish quarter of a dollar ; and Ike , who was tackling Lion to the clothes-basket , lifted up his eyes inquiringly to her face . 
Ike got up and looked at the coin , and thought how many marbles , and how many peanuts , and how many oranges , and how many sticks of molasses candy , it would buy , and asked her if it was n't a good one . 
And Ike thought out this moral from it , with the help of Lion : That , though the world depreciate ustwenty per cent. , we should feel just as happy with a self-consciousness of par value at heart , and jingle on merrily among the old copper or brass that may be around us . 
Could she but have looked around the corner of the house , she would have detected Ike 's red face wrinkled with mirth , and a piece of port-fire about an inch long between that promising young gentleman 's fingers . 
-- `` Your cap 's blazing , '' said Ike , looking in innocently ; and the old lady tore the burning muslin from her head and threw it on the floor . 
As she told the story to Ike about the crackers , how he wished he had been at home that he might have defended her ! 
and the dame gave him a bright dime for his earnest devotion . 
said Ike , stopping in the perusal of Dr. Kane 's work , as his eye was attracted by a picture of a rock thus indicated . 
The old lady had listened to some passages of the book , which he had read to her , with tearful interest . 
cried Ike , interrupting her . 
responded he , saucily ; `` I said gneiss -- g-n-e-i-s-s -- what 's that ? '' 
Ike turned to the picture of Accomodah , and asked her if he was in his bare skin , emphasizing the word `` bare ; '' and asked her , too , if she had lived so long in the world and did n't know the difference between a bare skin and a bear skin . 
Ike seemed penitent , and she gave him a three-cent piece to save till he got enough to put into the Five-Cent Savings Bank . 
`` Watering-places , '' said she , with a gentle tap on the cover of her box , at the same time looking at Ike , who was engaged in making a kite out of the last Puritan Recorder , that the dame had lain by for her Sunday reading , -- `` watering-places I do n't think p676-433 much of , now-a-days . 
Ike just then finished his kite by burning the holes for the `` belly-band '' with the small point of Mrs. Partington 's scissors , that had been heated red-hot for the purpose . 
Theconversation turned upon various burglaries that had been committed in the town , and Mrs. Partington gave it as her opinion that any one who would bulgariously break into a house would be mean enough to steal , particularly if he took anything . 
There were the dress and sundry flannel garments , that we forget the name of , and Ike 's Sunday jacket , and lots of other things . 
But Ike and the blue stockings passed out of the door , and anger passed from the memory of Mrs. Partington . 
She here stopped , and thrust the lorgnette that she had borrowed into its case , and drew her shawl up about her neck ; while Ike stood with the blue umbrella at `` present , '' waiting for her to come out of her seat . 
Mrs. Partingtonopened her eyes wide , as Ike read in the paper that there would be an `` occultation of Jupiter with the moon . '' 
-- `` Occultation , '' replied Ike , putting his finger on the word with an emphasis that made a hole right through the paper , entirely ruining the story of the `` Seven Champions , or the Bloody Wreath , '' on the other side of the sheet ; `` it is so here . '' 
-- `` Well , '' said she , `` get the directory and see what is oc -- oc -- '' -- `` Occultation , '' prompted Ike , as he passed out to find his school-books , hid during vacation time . 
Ike came back without the `` directory , '' and there was a strange dark mark about the corners of his mouth , that looked like the raspberry-jam the old lady kept up stairs for sickness . 
