Mary Howard , the child thus introduced to our readers , was certainly not very handsome . 
Her features , though tolerably regular , were small and thin , her complexion sallow , and her eyes , though bright and expressive , seemed too large for her face . 
She had naturally a fine set of teeth , but their beauty was impaired by two larger ones , which , on each side of her mouth , grew directly over the others , giving to the lower portion of her face a peculiar and rather disagreeable expression . 
She had frequently been told that she was homely , and often when alone had wept , and wondered why she , too , was not handsome like her sister Ella , on whose cheek the softest rose was blooming , while her rich brown hair fell in wavy masses about her white neck and shoulders . 
But if Ella was more beautiful than Mary , there was far less in her character to admire . 
In course of time three children , Frank , Mary , and Ella , were added to their number , and though their presence brought sunshine and gladness , it brought also an increase of toil and care . 
Mary , whose sensitive nature shrank from the observation of strangers , and who felt that one as handsome as George Moreland must necessarily laugh at her , kept aloof , and successfully cluded all his efforts to look under her bonnet . 
On this occasion , however , he resolved to make himself agreeable , and in ten minutes ' time he had so far succeeded in gaining Mary 's friendship , that she allowed him to untie the blue bonnet , which he carefully removed , and then when she did not know it , he scanned her features attentively , as if trying to discover all the beauty there was in them . 
At last gently smoothing back her hair , which was really bright and glossy , he said , `` Who told you that you were so ugly looking ? '' 
The tears started to Mary 's eyes , and her chin quivered , as she replied , `` Father says so , Ella says so , and every body says so , but mother and Franky . '' 
George 's propensity to tease had come upon him , and in enumerating the defects in Mary 's face , he purposely magnified them ; but he regretted it , when he saw the effect his words produced . 
Hiding her face in her hands , Mary burst into a passionate fit of weeping , then snatching the bonnet from George 's lap , she threw it on her head and was hurrying away , when George caught her and pulling her back , said , `` Forgive me , Mary . 
For a time George kept this resolution , but he could not conceal the preference which he felt for Ella , whose doll-like face , and childish ways were far more in keeping with his taste , than Mary 's old look and still older manner . 
Whenever he noticed her at all , he spoke kindly to her ; but she knew there was a great difference between his treatment of her and Ella , and oftentimes , when saying her evening prayer , she prayed that George Moreland might love her a little , just a little . '' 
For a day or two Mary obeyed her mother , and then curiosity led her near George 's berth . 
For several minutes she lingered , and was about turning away when a low moan fell on her ear and arrested her footsteps . 
Her mother 's commands were forgotten , and in a moment she stood by George 's bedside . 
Tenderly she smoothed his tumbled pillow , moistened his parched lips , and bathed his feverish brow , and when , an hour afterward , the physician entered , he found his patient calmly sleeping , with one hand clasped in that of Mary , who with the other fanned the sick boy with the same blue gingham sun-bonnet , of which he had once made fun , saying it looked like its owner , `` rather skim-milky . '' 
`` Mary ! 
Mary Howard ! '' 
said the physician , `` this is no place for you , '' and he endeavored to lead her away . 
This aroused George , who begged so hard for her to remain , that the physician went in quest of Mrs. Howard , who rather unwillingly consented , and Mary was duly installed as nurse in the sick room . 
Perfectly delighted with her new vocation , she would sit for hours by her charge , watching each change in his features and anticipating as far as possible his wants . 
She possessed a very sweet , clear voice ; and frequently , when all other means had failed to quiet him , she would bend her face near his and taking his hands in hers , would sing to him some simple song of home , until lulled by the soft music he would fall away to sleep . 
Such unwearied kindness was not without its effect upon George , and one day when Mary as usual was sitting near him , he called her to his side , and taking her face between his hands , kissed her forehead and lips , saying , `` What can I ever do to pay my little nurse for her kindness ? '' 
Mary hesitated a moment , and then replied , `` Love me as well as you do Ella ! '' 
Frank , who a moment before had stolen to Mary 's side , answered for her , saying , `` some one had told Ella that if she should have the fever , her curls would all drop off ; and so , '' said he , `` she wo n't come near you ! '' 
In a few days George was able to go on deck , and though he still petted and played with Ella , he never again slighted Mary , or forgot that she was present . 
More than once , too , a kind word , or affectionate look from him , sent such a glow to her cheek and sparkle to her eye , that Frank , who always loved her best , declared , `` she was as pretty as Ella any day if she 'd break herself of putting her hand to her mouth whenever she saw one looking at her , '' a habit which she had acquired from being so frequently told of her uneven teeth . 
All was now confusion , but in the hurry and bustle of going ashore , George did not forget Mary . 
Taking her aside , he threw round her neck a small golden chain , to which was attached a locket containing a miniature likeness of himself painted a year before . 
`` I wish I had one for you , '' said Mary ; and George replied , `` Never mind , I can remember your looks without a likeness . 
He was prevented from finishing his speech by a low cry from Mary , who , pressing his hands in hers , looked beseechingly in his face , and said , `` Oh , do n't , George ! 
He had not teased her about her looks for a long time , and now just as he was leaving her , 't was more than she could bear . 
Instantly regretting his thoughtless words , George took her in his arms , and wiping away her tears , said , `` Forgive me , Mary . 
Then putting her down , and bidding adieu to Mr. and Mrs. Howard , Frank , and Ella , he sprang into his uncle 's carriage , and was rapidly driven away . 
Mary looked after him as long as the heads of the white horses were in sight , and then taking Frank 's hand , followed her parents to the hotel , where for a few days they had determined to stop while Mrs. Howard made inquiries for her sister . 
She , however , insisted upon a description , and that evening when tea was over , the lamps lighted , and Mr. Selden reading the paper , George told her of Mary , who had watched so kindly over him during the weary days of his illness . 
Contrary to his expectations , she did not laugh at the picture which he drew of Mary 's face , but simply said , `` I know I should like her . '' 
Then after a moment 's pause , she continued ; `` They are poor , you say , and Mr. Howard is a music teacher . 
When the subject was referred to her father , he said that he had liked the appearance of Mr. Howard , and would if possible find him on the morrow and engage his services . 
But George 's disappointment was soon forgotten in the pleasures and excitements of school , and if occasionally thoughts of Mary Howard came over him , they were generally dispelled by the lively sallies of his sprightly little cousin , who often declared that `` she should be dreadfully jealous of George 's travelling companion , were it not that he was a great admirer of beauty , and that Mary was terribly ugly . '' 
At first there was almost perfect silence , broken only by a whisper or under tone , but gradually the restraint wore way , and the woman near the door , who had come `` because she was a mind to , but did n't expect to be noticed any way , '' and who , every time she was addressed , gave a nervous hitch backward with her chair , had finally hitched herself into the hall , where with unbending back and pursed up lips she sat , highly indignant at the ill-concealed mirth of the young girls , who on the stairs were watching her retrograde movements . 
`` Forgets , mebby , that she 's English , '' muttered the woman at the door ; and Mrs. Johnson added , `` It would draw tears from your eyes , to see that little pale-faced Mary trying to wait upon her mother and brother , and carrying that sickly baby in her arms so that it may not disturb them . '' 
With motherly care little Mary each day washed and dressed it , and then hour after hour carried it in her arms , trying to still its feeble moans , which fell so sadly on the ear of her invalid mother . 
One morning when he attempted to rise , he felt oppressed with a languor he had never before experienced , and turning on his trundlebed , and adjusting his blue cotton jacket , his only pillow , he again slept so soundly that Mary was obliged to call him twice ere she aroused him . 
At last Frank , pulling the old blue jacket from under his head , and passing it to Mary , said , `` Take it to Bill Bender , -- he offered me a shilling for it , and a shilling will buy milk for Allie and crackers for mother , -- take it . '' 
`` No , Franky , '' answered Mary , `` you would have no pillow , besides , I 've got something more valuable , which I can sell . 
I 've kept it long , but it must go to keep us from starving ; '' -- and she held to view the golden locket , which George Moreland had thrown around her neck . 
Mary finally yielded the point , and gathering up the erumpled jacket , started in quest of Billy Bender . 
But now , when he saw the garment , and learned why it was sent , he immediately drew from his old leather wallet a quarter , all the money he had in the world , and giving it to Mary bade her keep it , as she would need it all . 
Half an hour after a cooling orange was held to Frank 's parched lips , and Mary said , `` Drink it , brother , I 've got two more , besides some milk and bread , '' but the ear she addressed was deaf and the eye dim with the fast falling shadow of death . 
`` Now , if the doctor would only come , '' said Mary ; but the doctor was hurrying from house to house , for more than one that night lay dying in Chicopee . 
Fast the shades of night came on , and when all was dark in the sick room , Mary sobbed out , `` We have no candle , mother , and if I go for one , and he should die -- '' The sound of her voice aroused Frank , and feeling for his sister 's hand , he said , `` Do n't go , Mary : -- do n't leave me , -- the moon is shining bright , and I guess I can find my way to God just as well . '' 
Mary had drawn her mother 's lounge to the side of the trundlebed , and in a state of almost perfect exhaustion , Mrs. Howard lay gasping for breath , while Mary , as if conscious of the dread reality about to occur , knelt by her side , occasionally caressing her pale cheek and asking if she were better . 
Once Mrs. Howard laid her hands on Mary 's head , and prayed that she might be preserved and kept from harm by the God of the orphan , and that the sin of disobedience resting upon her own head might not be visited upon her child . 
After a time a troubled sleep came upon her , and she slept , until roused by a low sob . 
Raising herself up , she looked anxiously towards her children . 
The moonbeams fell full upon the white , placid face of Frank , who seemed calmly sleeping , while over him Mary bent , pushing back from his forehead the thick , clustering curls , and striving hard to smother her sobs , so they might not disturb her mother . 
asked Mrs. Howard , and Mary , covering with her hands the face of him who slept , answered , `` Turn away , mother ; -- do n't look at him . 
Beckoning Mary to her side , she whispered , `` I am leaving you alone in the wide world . 
On the little trundlebed lay Frank , cold and dead , and near him in the same long dreamless sleep was his mother , while between them , with one arm thrown lovingly across her brother 's neck , and her cheek pressed against his , lay Mary -- her eyelids moist with the tears which , though sleeping , she still shed . 
For a moment Billy stood irresolute , and then as Mary moved uneasily in her slumbers , he advanced a step or two towards her . 
The noise aroused her , and instantly remembering and comprehending the whole , she threw herself with a bitter cry into Billy 's extended arms , as if he alone were all the protector she now had in the wide , wide world . 
Ere long Ella too awoke , and the noisy outburst which followed the knowledge of her loss , made Mary still the agony of her own heart in order to soothe the more violent grief of her excitable sister . 
There was a stir in the cradle , and with a faint cry the baby Alice awoke and stretched her hands towards Mary , who , with all a mother 's care took the child upon her lap , and fed her from the milk which was still standing in the broken pitcher . 
This was too much for poor Mary , and folding the child closer to her bosom she sobbed passionately . 
Ella was not accustomed to see her sister thus moved , and her tears now flowed faster while she entreated Mary to stop . 
`` Do n't do so , Mary , '' she said . 
Tell her to stop , Billy . 
Tell her to stop . '' 
At length rising up , he said to Mary , `` Something must be done . 
`` There will be no trouble , '' said one , `` in finding a place for Ella , she is so bright and handsome , but as for Mary , I am afraid she 'll have to go to the poor-house . '' 
`` Were I in a condition to take either , '' replied Mrs. Johnson , `` I should prefer Mary to her sister , for in my estimation she is much the best girl ; but there is the baby , who must go wherever Mary does , unless she can be persuaded to leave her . '' 
Before any one could reply to this remark , Mary , who had overheard every word , came forward , and laying her face on Mrs. Johnson 's lap , sobbed out , `` Let me go with Alice , I told mother I would . '' 
`` Yes , Mary Judson and Ella Campbell , too , are dead . '' 
If you go any where , suppose you stop at Mrs. Howard 's , and comfort poor Mary , who cries all the time because she and Alice have got to go to the poor-house . '' 
Near them sat Ella , occasionally looking with childish curiosity at the strangers around her , or leaning forward to peep at the tips of the new morocco shoes which Mrs. Johnson had kindly given her ; then , when her eye fell upon the coffin , she would burst into such an agony of weeping that many of the villagers also wept in sympathy , and as they stroked her soft hair , thought , `` how much more she loved her mother than did Mary , '' who , without a tear upon her cheek , sat there immovable , gazing fixedly upon the marble face of her mother . 
This he did willingly , for Alice , who had been accustomed to see him , would now go to no one else except Mary . 
Side by side walked Mary and Ella , and as Alice 's eyes fell upon the former , she uttered a cry of joy , and almost sprang from Billy 's arms . 
But Mary could not come ; and for the next half hour Mrs. Bender corked her ears with cotton , while Billy , half distracted , walked the floor , singing at the top of his voice every tune he had ever heard , from `` Easter Anthem '' down to `` the baby whose father had gone a hunting , '' and for whom the baby in question did not care two straws . 
Meantime the bodies were about to be lowered into the newly made grave , when Mrs. Johnson felt her dress nervously grasped , and looking down she saw Mary 's thin , white face uplifted towards hers with so earnest an expression , that she gently laid her hand upon her head , and said , `` What is it , dear ? '' 
Mrs. Johnson immediately communicated Mary 's request to the sexton , who rather unwillingly opened the coffin lid . 
Tenderly Mary laid him back upon his own pillow , and then kneeling down and burying her face in her mother 's bosom , she for a time remained perfectly silent , although the quivering of her frame plainly told the anguish of that parting . 
At length Mrs. Johnson gently whispered , `` Come , darling , you must come away now ; '' but Mary did not move ; and when at last they lifted her up , they saw that she had fainted . 
In a few moments she recovered , and with her arms across her sister 's neck , stood by until the wide grave was filled , and the bystanders were moving away . 
And yet she was not one half so desolate as was the orphan Mary , who in Mrs. Bender 's kitchen sat weeping over her sister Alice , and striving to form words of prayer which should reach the God of the fatherless . 
Alice at last was sleeping , and Mary had come out to weep alone where there were none to see or hear . 
For her the future was dark and cheerless as midnight . 
No friends , no money , and no home , except the poor-house , from which , young as she was , she instinctively shrank . 
`` My mother , oh , my mother , '' she cried , as she stretched her hands towards the clear blue sky , now that mother 's home , `` Why did n't I die too ? '' 
There was a step upon the grass , and looking up Mary saw standing near her , Mrs. Campbell 's English girl , Hannah . 
She had entered through the garden gate , and came upon Mary just as she uttered the words , `` Why did n't I die too ? '' 
The sight of her grief touched Hannah 's heart , and sitting down by the little girl , she tried to comfort her . 
Mary felt that her words and manner were prompted by real sympathy , and after a time she grew calm , and listened , while Hannah told her that `` as soon as her mistress got so any body could go near her , she meant to ask her to take Ella Howard to fill the place of her own daughter . '' 
Mary was not selfish , and the faint possibility that her sister might not be obliged to go to the poor-house , gave her comfort , though she knew that in all probability she herself must go . 
`` Why , you see , ma'am , I was going to say a word about , -- about that youngest Howard girl . '' 
`` She 's got to go to the poor-house , and it 's a pity , she 's so handsome . 
Why could n't she come here and live ? 
I 'll take care of her , and ` twould n't be nigh so lonesome . '' 
`` I 'll keep at her till I fetch it about , '' thought Hannah , as she obeyed the lady 's order . 
This reminded Mrs. Campbell of Hannah 's suggestion , which she repeated to her visitor , who answered , `` It would unquestionably be a goood idea to take her , for she is large enough to be useful in the kitchen in various ways . '' 
Mrs. Campbell , who had more of real kindness in her nature than Mrs. Lincoln , replied , `` If I take her , I shall treat her as my own , for they say she looks like her , and her name , too , is the same . '' 
`` There were sights of trees , and flowers , and vines , and fountains , and little deer , '' said the child , `` and when I asked ma why she did not live there now , she cried , and pa put his arm tight ` round her , -- so . '' 
Meantime arrangements were making for Mary and Alice , and on the same day in which Mrs. Campbell was to call for Ella , Mr. Knight , one of the `` Selectmen , '' whose business it was to look after the town 's poor , * also came to the cottage . 
After learning that Ella was provided for , he turned to Mary , asking `` how old she was , and what she could do , '' saying , that his wife was in want of just such a girl to do `` chores , '' and if she was willing to be separated from Alice , he would give her a home with him . 
But Mary only hugged her sister closer to her bosom as she replied , `` I 'd rather go with Alice . 
`` Do n't cry so , Mary , '' whispered Billy , when he saw how fast her tears were falling . 
I hope you do n't mean to carry that are thing , '' he continued , pointing with his whip towards Alice 's cradle , which stood near Mary 's box of clothes . 
The tears came into Mary 's eyes , and she answered , `` Alice has always slept in it , and I did n't know but -- '' Here she stopped , and running up to Ella , hid her face in her lap , and sobbed , `` I do n't want to go . 
Billy 's yellow handkerchief was suddenly brought into requisition , and Mrs. Bender , who , with all her imaginary aches and pains , was a kind-hearted woman , made vigorous attacks upon her snuff-box , while Mrs. Campbell patted Mary 's head , saying , `` Poor child , I ca n't take you both , but you shall see your sister often . '' 
Ella was too much pleased with Mrs. Campbell , and the thoughts of the fine home to which she was going , to weep , but her chin quivered , when Mary held up the baby for her to kiss , and said , `` Perhaps you will never see little Allie again . '' 
Before Mary could reply , Billy whispered in her ear , `` Never mind , Mary ; you know that little cart that I draw mother 's wood in , the cradle will just fit it , and to-morrow afternoon I 'll bring it to you , if it does n't rain . '' 
Mary knew that he meant what he said , and smiling on him through her tears , climbed into the rickety wagon , which was minus a step , and taking Alice in her arms , she was soon moving away . 
Mary , who had seldom been out of the village , and who knew but little of the surrounding country , for a time enjoyed looking about her very much . 
Then they crossed the winding Chicopee river , and Mary thought how much she should love to play in that bright green meadow and gather the flowers which grew so near to the water 's edge . 
The causeway was next crossed , and turning to the right they came upon a road where Mary had never been before , and which grew more rough and stony as they advanced . 
On the top of a steep hill Mary looked back to see if Chicopee were yet visible , but nothing was to be seen except the spire of the Unitarian Meeting-House . 
About a quarter of a mile to the west , however , the graveyard was plainly discernible , and she looked until her eyes were dim with tears at the spot where she knew her parents and brother were lying . 
`` I was n't thinking of myself , '' said Mary . 
Mary wondered how he could speak thus carelessly of what would cause her so much sorrow . 
Gently lifting the old faded shawl , she looked down upon Alice as she slept . 
She was dreaming , and as her lips moved , Mary caught the word , `` Ma , '' which the child had applied indiscriminately both to herself and her mother . 
Instantly the tears gushed forth , and falling upon the baby 's face awoke her . 
Her nap was not half out , and setting up a loud cry , she continued screaming until they drove up to the very door of the poor-house . 
`` For the land 's sake , '' said Mr. Knight , as he helped Mary from the wagon , `` what a racket ; ca n't you contrive to stop it ? 
Mary glanced nervously round in quest of the goblin Sal , but she saw nothing save an idiotic face with bushy tangled hair , and nose flattened against the window pane . 
In terror Mary clung to Mr. Knight , and whispered , as she pointed towards the figure , which was now laughing hideously , `` What is it ? 
Mary looked towards the woods which skirted the borders of the meadow opposite , and for half a moment felt inclined to flee thither , and hide herself in the bushes ; but Mr. Knight 's hand was upon her shoulder , and he led her towards a red-whiskered man , who stood in the door . 
Mary remembered that Billy would not come if it rained , and with a sigh she noticed that the clouds were dark and threatening . 
Mary was very tired with holding Alice so long , and sinking into a chair near the window , she would have cried ; but there was a tightness in her throat , and a pressure about her head and eyes , which kept the tears from flowing . 
She had felt so once before . 
'T was when she stood at her mother 's grave ; and now as the room grew dark , and the objects around began to turn in circles , she pressed her hands tightly to her forehead , and said , `` Oh , I hope I sha n't faint . '' 
`` To be sure you wo n't , '' said a loud , harsh voice , and instantly large drops of water were thrown in her face , while the same voice continued : `` You do n't have such spells often , I hope , for Lord knows I do n't want any more fitty ones here . '' 
`` No , ma'am , '' said Mary , meekly ; and looking up , she saw before her a tall , square-backed , masculine-looking woman , who wore a very short dress , and a very high-crowned cap , fastened under her chin with bows of sky-blue ribbon . 
Mary knew she was indebted to this personage for the shower-bath , for the water was still trickling from her fingers , which were now engaged in picking her teeth with a large pin . 
There was something exceedingly cross and forbidding in her looks , and Mary secretly hoped she would not prove to be Mrs. Parker , the wife of the overseer . 
She was soon relieved of her fears by the overseer himself , who came forward and said , `` Polly , I do n't see any other way but you 'll have to take these children into the room next to yourn . 
The person addressed as `` Polly , '' gave her shoulders an angry jerk , and sticking the pin on the waist of her dress , replied , `` So I s ` pose it 's no matter if I 'm kept awake all night , and worried to death . 
This was said with a lowering frown , and movement towards Mary , who shrank back into the corner and covered her mouth with her hand , as if that were the cause of offence . 
This speech , while it mollified Polly , made Mary shudder , as she thought of Alice 's being `` managed '' by such a woman . 
But she had no time for thought , for Polly , who was very rapid in her movements , and always in a hurry , said , `` Come , child , I will show you where you are going to sleep ; '' at the same time she caught up Alice , who , not liking her handling , kicked so vigorously that she was soon dropped ; Polly remarking , that `` she was mighty strong in her legs for a sick baby . '' 
After passing up a dark stairway they came to a door , which opened under the garret stairs , and Mary was startled by a voice which seemed to be almost over her head , and which , between a sneer and a hiss , called out , `` See where the immaculate Miss Grundy comes ! '' 
This was followed by a wild , insane chuckle , which made Mary spring in terror to Polly 's side . 
Mary longed to ask who Sal Furbush was ; but as her guide did not seem at all inclined to be communicative , she followed on in silence until they came to a longer and lighter hall , or `` spaceway , '' as it is frequently called in New England . 
Mary thought she would rather do any thing than that . 
She also felt a great curiosity to know who her companion was , so she at last ventured to ask , `` Do you live here , Miss Polly ? '' 
`` If you please , '' said Mary , who knew she could not eat a mouthful , `` If you please , I 'd rather stay here and rest me if I can have some milk for Alice by and by . '' 
said Mary , not exactly understanding her . 
`` She has never eaten any thing but milk , '' said Mary , weeping to think how different Mrs. Grundy 's manner was from her own dear mother 's . 
Mary could have told of many hungry nights which she and Frank had passed in order that Ella and Alice might be fed , but she made no remark , and Mrs. Grundy soon left the room saying , , `` Come down when you get ready for the milk . 
Half an hour after Alice began to cry ; and Mary , knowing she was hungry , laid her upon the bed and started for the milk . 
She trembled as she drew near the garret stairs , and trod softly that she might not be heard , but as she was passing the mysterious door , a voice entirely different in its tone from the one assumed towards Mrs. Grundy , called out , `` Come here , little dear , and see your Aunty . '' 
Mary 's circle of acquaintances was quite as large as she cared to have it , and quickening her steps , she was soon in the kitchen , where she found several old ladies still lingering over cups of very weak and very red looking tea . 
As she entered the room they all suspended their operations , and looking hard at her , asked if she were the little English girl . 
On being told that she was , three of them returned to their cups , while one shook her head , saying , `` Poor child , I pity you . '' 
Mary had heard that remark many times , but she knew that the words now conveyed other meaning than what referred to her face or teeth . 
she at last ventured to ask . 
`` She told me that was her name , -- yes , ma'am , '' said Mary . 
`` Well , Mrs.Grundy is in the but ` ry , '' indicating with her elbow the direction . 
Mary had no trouble in finding `` the but ` ry , '' but on trying the door , she found it fastened inside . 
In answer to her gentle knock a harsh voice replied , `` Who 's there ? '' 
With a jerk Mrs. Grundy opened the door , and putting a pint cup two thirds full of blue milk in Mary 's hand , she hastily shut and fastened it again . 
Quick as her movements were , Mary caught a smell of strong green tea , and the sight of a sugar bowl and a slice of white bread . 
She knew now why the door was buttoned , but thinking it was none of her business , she started to return to the kitchen . 
As she passed the outer door , an old gray-haired man , with a face perfectly simple and foolish in its expression , stepped towards her , stretching out his hands as if to reach her . 
With a loud cry she rushed headlong into the kitchen , where one of the women was still sitting . 
asked the woman , to which Mary replied , `` Look at him ! '' 
at the same time pointing to the man , who with his hand thrust out was still advancing towards her . 
Let him touch you and he 'll go off ; '' but Mary did n't choose to be touched , and retreating towards the chamber door , she fled rapidly up the stairs . 
This time she was not accosted by any one , but as she passed the dark closet , she was surprised to hear a musical voice singing the national air of her own country , and she wondered , too , at the taste of the singer in finishing every verse with `` God save Miss Grundy . '' 
That night Alice , who missed her cradle , was unusually restless , and Mary , remembering Mrs. Grundy 's threat , carried her in her arms until after midnight . 
Then without undressing she threw herself upon the bed , and , for the first time in many weeks , dreamed of George and his parting promise to see her again . 
The next morning when she awoke she found Mr. Parker 's prediction verified , for the clouds were pouring rain . 
`` Billy wo n't come to-day , '' was her first thought , and throwing herself upon the floor she burst into tears , wishing as she had once done before that she had died with her mother . 
In the midst of her grief the door was pushed hastily open , and Mrs. Grundy 's harsh voice exclaimed , `` Wall , so you are up at last , hey ? 
asked Mary . 
Mary remembered this , and now casting a rueful glance around the room she said , `` I wonder where I am going to wash me . '' 
The loud , scornful laugh which followed this remark made her look up amazed at Mrs. Grundy , who replied , `` In the back room sink , of course . 
`` I did n't mean to take airs , '' said Mary ; `` I do n't care where I wash myself , but Alice is sick , and mother had me bathe her every morning . 
`` Yes , ma'am , '' said Mary meekly . 
Mary glanced at Alice . 
She was sleeping sweetly , and though there seemed to be no reason , she still lingered . 
asked Mrs. Grundy , and Mary , with some hesitation , answered , `` I have n't said my prayers yet . '' 
When she was gone Mary fell on her knees , and though the words she uttered were addressed more to her mother than to God , she felt comforted , and rising up started for the kitchen . 
It was a motley group which she found assembled around the breakfast table , and as she entered the room , the man called Uncle Peter smiled on her , saying , `` Come here , little daughter , and let me touch you with the tip of my fourth finger . '' 
Shrinking to nearly half her usual size , she managed to pass him without coming in contact with said finger , which was merely a stump , the first joint having been amputated . 
On reaching the back room she readily found the place where she with all the rest was to wash . 
For this she did not care , as the water was as cold and pure , and seemed as refreshing as when dipped from her mother 's tin wash-basin . 
But when she came to the wiping part , and tried in vain to find a clean corner on the long towel , which hung upon a roller , she felt that she was indeed a pauper . 
`` I should think we might have a decent towel , '' thought she . 
`` Mother used to say it cost nothing to be clean ; '' then looking round to be sure that no one saw her , she caught up the skirt of her dress and drying her face with it , went back to the kitchen . 
She would greatly have preferred a seat by a pleasant looking old lady who looked kindly on her , but Mrs. Grundy bade her sit down by her and help herself . 
Mary had hoped that at the poor-house her mouth would not be a subject of comment , but she was disappointed , and bursting into tears would have risen from the table , had not the kind looking woman said , `` Shame on you , Peter , to plague a little girl . '' 
There was so much of real kindness in his manner that Mary 's fear of him diminished , and taking the offered milk she thanked him so kindly that Uncle Peter , who was quite an orator , considered it his duty to make a speech . 
Pushing back his chair , he commenced with a bow which required so many changes of his legs that Mary wondered they were not entirely twisted up . 
Mary was about following his example when Mrs. Grundy said , `` Come , catch hold now and see how spry you can clear the table , and you , Rind , '' speaking to a simple looking girl with crooked feet , `` do you go to your shoes . 
At this moment Mary caught sight of Mr. Parker , who was standing just without the door , and his mischievous look as Mrs. Grundy gave out her orders made Mary a little suspicious of that lady 's real position among them . 
But she had no time for thought , for just then through all the closed doors and the long hall there came to her ears the sound of a scream . 
Alice was crying , and instantly dropping the plate she held in her hand , Mary was hurrying away , when Mrs. Grundy called her back , saying `` Let her cry a spell . 
Mary had more spirit than her face indicated , and in her mind she was revolving the propriety of obeying , when Mr. Parker , who was still standing by the door , said , `` If that baby is crying , go to her by all means . '' 
The look of gratitude which Mary 's eyes flashed upon him , more than compensated for the frown which darkened Mrs. Grundy 's brow as she slammed the doors together , muttering about `` hen-hussies minding their own business . '' 
Mary was not called down to finish the dishes , and when at last she went to the kitchen for milk , she found them all washed and put away . 
The pleasant looking woman was mopping the kitchen floor , and Mary , for the first time , noticed that she was very lame . 
Mary chose to obey Mrs. Grundy , who wiped the crumbs of curd and drops of whey from her arms and took the cup , saying , `` More milk ? 
Had Mary been a little older , she might have doubted whether the blue looking stuff Mrs. Grundy poured into her cup , ever saw any cream , but she was only too thankful to get it on any terms , and hurried with it back to her room . 
But the roads were so muddy that Mary had no hope of Billy 's coming , and this it was , perhaps , which made the dinner dishes so hard to wash , and which made her cry when told that all the knives and forks must be scoured , the tea-kettle wiped , and set with its nose to the north , in what Mrs. Grundy called the `` Pout Hole , '' and which proved to be a place under the stairs , where pots , kettles and iron ware generally were kept . 
All things have an end , and so did the scouring , in spite of Mary 's fears to the contrary , and then watching a time when Mrs. Grundy did not see her , she stole away up stairs . 
Mary watched them for a time , and then looking upward at the thin white clouds which chased each other so rapidly across the blue sky , wondered if her mother 's home were there , and if she ever thought of her children , so sad and lonely without her . 
In a moment Mary 's arms were thrown about his neck as tightly as if she thought he had the power and was come to take her away . 
`` Oh , Billy , Billy , '' she said , `` I was afraid you would not come , and it made me so unhappy . 
Billy had expected as much , and had tried hard to make his mother say that if Mary and Alice were very homesick he might bring them home . 
Billy knew the town could support them much cheaper where they were , so he gave up his project , and bought Mary a pound of seed cakes and Alice a stick of candy . 
Then , the moment the rain had ceased he got himself in readiness to start , for he knew how long the day would seem to Mary , and how much Alice would miss her cradle . 
The road was long and the hills were steep , but patiently Billy toiled on , thinking how surprised and pleased Mary would be ; and when he saw how joyfully she received him , he felt more than paid for his trouble . 
Some boys would have rudely shaken her off , ashamed to be caressed by a little girl , but Billy 's heart was full of kindly sympathy , and he returned her caresses as a brother would have done . 
As he released her , he was startled at hearing some one call out , `` Bravo ! 
Billy , who had worked for Mr. Lincoln , had been insulted by Henry many a time , and now he longed to avenge it , but native politeness taught him that in the presence of Mary ` twould not be proper , so without a word to Henry he whispered to the little girl , `` That fellow lives near here , and if he ever gives you trouble , just let me know . '' 
`` Come into the house , '' said Mary , `` where he ca n't see us , '' and leading the way she conducted him up to her own room , where there was no fear of being interrupted . 
Alice was first carefully fixed in her cradle , and then kneeling down at Billy 's side , and laying her arms across his lap , Mary told him of every thing which had happened , and finished by asking , `` how long she must stay there . '' 
Now he could only shake his head in reply , while Mary next asked if he had seen Ella . 
Mary did not speak for some time , but her head dropped on Billy 's knee and she seemed to be intently thinking . 
At last , brushing aside the hair which had fallen over her forehead , Billy said , `` What are you thinking about ? '' 
Greatly was she surprised at the sound of voices in the room adjoining , and while Mary was still in Billy 's lap the door opened , and Mrs. Grundy appeared , with her hands thrown up and the wide border of her morning cap , which also did night service for its fair owner , flying straight back . 
`` Mary Howard ! '' 
`` It 's nobody but Billy Bender , '' said Mary , frightened at Mrs. Grundy 's wrathful looks . 
Mary tried to get down , but Billy , greatly amused at the highly scandalized lady 's distress , held her tightly , and Mrs. Grundy , slamming the door together , declared `` she 'd tell Mr. Parker , and that 's the end o n't . '' 
Mary followed him down stairs , and then returning to her room , cried herself into so sound a sleep that Mrs. Grundy was obliged to scream to her at least a dozen times to come down and set the supper table , adding as a finale , that `` she wondered if she thought she was a lady boarder or what . '' 
Thenext morning , beween nine and ten , as Mary sat by Alice 's cradle rocking her to sleep , she was sensible of an unusual commotion in and around the house . 
Mary 's curiosity was roused , and as soon as Alice was fairly asleep , she resolved to go down and ascertain the cause of the disturbance , which had now subsided . 
She was shaking her fist in a very threatening manner , and as she drew nearer Mary saw that her face was going through a great variety of changes , being at first perfectly hideous in its expression , and then instantly changing into something equally ridiculous , though not quite so frightful . 
Quickly divining that this must be Sal Furbush , Mary sprang back , but had not time to fasten her door ere the wild woman was there . 
In a tremor of terror Mary ran under the bed as the only hiding-place the room afforded , but her heart almost ceased beating as she saw her pursuer about to follow her . 
Springing out with a bound she would perhaps have made her egress through the open window , had not Sally prevented her by seizing her arm , at the same time saying , `` Do n't be alarmed , duckey , I sha n't hurt you ; I 'm Sal . 
The voice was low and musical , and there was something in its tones which in a measure quieted Mary 's fears , but she took good care to keep at a respectful distance . 
`` I have come here to live , '' answered Mary , `` I have no other home . '' 
Involuntarily Mary 's hand went up to her mouth , and Sally , who if she expected an answer , forgot to wait for it , continued , `` Do you know grammar , child ? '' 
Mary replied that she had studied it a few months in Worcester , and a few weeks in Chicopee . 
Unfortunately Mary 's knowledge of grammar was rather limited , and as she did not exactly fancy Sal 's proposition , she answered that she had nearly forgotten all she ever knew of grammar . 
asked Mary . 
`` Four , '' answered Mary , who had been studying Smith . 
Instantly Sal seized Mary 's hands , and nearly wrenching them off in her joy , capered and danced about the room , leaping over the cradle , and finally exclaiming , `` Capital ! 
`` Masculine , Feminine , Neuter and Common , '' said Mary . 
asked Mary , and Sal replied , `` Mrs. Grundy?and who may Mrs. Grundy be ? 
said Mary . 
`` So do we all , '' interrupted Mary , and Sal continued : `` On that point you are slightly mistaken , my dear . 
Here pushing her tangled hair back from her brow , she pointed to a long scar , saying , `` Do you see that ? '' 
Mary nodded , and Sal continued : `` When I first came here , the overseer was a bad man , not at all like Mr. Parker . 
asked Mary . 
Mary 's looks plainly told that this remark had given her no idea whatever , and Sal continued , `` I knew you would n't understand , for you have n't my discernment to begin with , and then you were never sent away to school , were you ? '' 
asked Mary . 
`` She is n't a boy , '' quickly interrupted Mary . 
`` No consequence , '' said Sally , `` he 's Willie to me ; '' and ever after , in spite of Mary 's remonstrance , she persisted in speaking of Alice as `` he , '' and `` the little boy . '' 
Mary soon found that the poor-house with Sal Furbush shut up , and the poor-house with Sal at liberty , were quite different affairs . 
The night following Sal 's first acquaintance with Mary , Alice cried until nearly day dawn . 
Mary had spoken of it two or three times , but Miss Grundy only jerked her shoulders , saying , `` she guessed she was n't going to have such a slush around the house . 
You can bring her down , '' said she , `` to the sink , and pump as much water on her as you like ; '' so Mary said no more about it until the night of which we have spoken , and then she determined on making one more effort . 
But her heart almost failed her , when , on entering the kitchen , she saw how the chairs and Miss Grundy 's shoulders danced round . 
So -LRB- speaking to Mary -RRB- you may just pick up your duds and move this very morning . '' 
By this time Mary had found courage to say she thought Alice would be better if she could have her usual bath every morning . 
Mary , on the contrary , was really distressed , for she knew the bumped head would be charged to her , and felt sure that she was further than ever from the attainment of her object . 
After a great deal of scolding and fretting about whims , stuck-up notions , and paupers trying to be somebody , Miss Grundy , who really did not care a copper where Alice was washed , consented , and Mary ran joyfully up stairs with the bucket of clear , cold water , which was so soothing in its effects upon the feeble child , that in a short time she fell into a deep slumber . 
Mary gently laid her down , and then smoothing back the few silken curls which grew around her forehead , and kissing her white cheek , she returned to the kitchen , determined to please Miss Grundy that day , if possible . 
But Miss Grundy was in the worst of humors , and the moment Mary appeared she called out , `` Go straight back , and fetch that young one down here . 
Mary cast a fearful glance at Patsy , who nodded and smiled as if in approbation of Miss Grundy 's command . 
Twice Mary attempted to shut the door between , but Miss Grundy bade her open it so she could `` keep an eye on all that was going on . '' 
The new sights and faces round her , and more than all , Patsy 's strange appearance , frightened Alice , who set up such loud screams that Miss Grundy shook her lustily , and then cuffed Patsy , who cried because the baby did , and pulling Mary 's hair because she `` most knew she felt gritty , '' she went back to the cheese-tub , muttering something about `` Cain 's being raised the hull time . '' 
At last , wholly exhausted and overcome with the heat , Alice ceased screaming , and with her eyes partly closed , she lay panting for breath , while Mary , half out of her senses , tipped over the dishwater , broke the yellow pitcher , and spilled a pan of morning 's milk . 
At this stage of affairs , Sal Furbush came dancing in , curtseying , making faces , and asking Mary if she thought `` the temperature of the kitchen conducive to health . '' 
Mary instinctively drew nearer to her , as to a friend , and grasping her dress , whispered , `` Oh , Sally , Aunt Sally , do n't let her whip me for nothing , '' at the same time pointing towards Miss Grundy , who was returning with an alder switch , stripping off its leaves as she came . 
Mary retreated behind the cupboard door , and Miss Grundy was about to follow her , when Sal , with a nimble bound , sprang upon her back , and pulling her almost to the floor , snatched the whip from her hand , and broke it in twenty pieces . 
On this occasion , however , he did not take sides with her , but said , `` It was ridiculous to have such works , and that if Mary wanted whipping , he would do it himself . '' 
`` But Sal Furbush , '' said Miss Grundy , as she adjusted her head-gear , which was slightly displaced , `` ca n't she be shut up ? 
There 's bedlam to pay the whole durin ' time when she 's loose . '' 
Mr. Parker knew this very well , but before he had time to answer , Mary looked pleadingly in his face , and said , `` If you please , do n't shut her up . 
She was not to blame , for I asked her to help me . '' 
`` Wall , wall , we 'll let her off this time , I guess , '' said he ; and as Uncle Peter just then put his head into the window , saying that `` the lord of the manor was wanted without , '' Mr. Parker left , glad to get out of the muss so easily . 
Then , as Mary looked a little startled , she added , `` Never you fear , dearie , Sal knows what she 's about , and she wo n't make the little boy the least bit of a face . '' 
From that time there was no more trouble with Alice during the day , for she seemed to cling naturally to Sally , who hour after hour rocked and took care of her , while Mary , in the kitchen below , was busy with the thousand things which Miss Grundy found for her to do . 
Mary tied her sun-bonnet and hurried off , glad to escape for a few moments from the hot kitchen , with its endless round of washing dishes , scouring knives , wiping door-sills , and dusting chairs . 
She had no difficulty in finding the way , and she almost screamed for joy , when she came suddenly upon the sparkling brook , which danced so merrily beneath the shadow of the tall woods . 
`` What a nice place this would be to sit and read , '' was her first exclamation , and then she sighed as she thought how small were her chances for reading now . 
Quickly her thoughts traversed the past , and her tears mingled with the clear water which flowed at her feet , as she recalled the time when , blessed with a father 's and mother 's love , she could go to school and learn as other children did . 
She was roused from her sad reverie by the sound of voices , which she supposed proceeded from the men , whose tones , she fancied , were softer than usual . 
`` If I can hear them , they can hear me , '' thought she , and shouting as loud as she could , she soon heard Mr. Parker 's voice in answer , saying , he would come directly . 
It was a mild September day , and as Mary knew that Sal would take care of Alice , she determined not to hurry , but to follow the course of the stream , fancying she should find it to be the same which ran through the clothes-yard at home . 
She had not gone far , when she came suddenly upon a boy and two little girls , who seemed to be playing near the brook . 
In the features of the boy she recognized Henry Lincoln , and remembering what Billy had said of him , she was about turning away , when the smallest of the girls espied her , and called out , `` Look here , Rose , I reckon that 's Mary Howard . 
I 'm going to speak to her . '' 
But whether `` mother would like it , '' or not , Jenny did not stop to think , and going towards Mary she said , `` Have you come to play in the woods ? '' 
`` No , '' was Mary 's reply . 
`` No , I ca n't , I must go back and work , '' said Mary . 
`` I think it 's bad enough to have to live in that old house without working , but come and see our fish-pond ; '' and taking Mary 's hand , she led her to a wide part of the stream where the water had been dammed up until it was nearly two feet deep and clear as crystal . 
Looking in , Mary could see the pebbles on the bottom , while a fish occasionally darted out and then disappeared . 
Mary now for the first time noticed the appearance of her companion , and readily guessed that the word which she could not remember , was `` slattern . '' 
She was a fat , chubby little girl , with a round , sunny face and laughing blue eyes , while her brown hair hung around her forehead in short , tangled curls . 
The front breadth of her pink gingham dress was plastered with mud . 
One of her shoe-strings was untied , and the other one gone . 
The strings of her white sun-bonnet were twisted into a hard knot , and the bonnet itself hung down her back , partially hiding the chasm made by the absence of three or four hooks and eyes . 
Altogether she was just the kind of little girl which one often finds in the country swinging on gates and making mud pies . 
Mary was naturally very neat ; and in reply to Jenny 's question as to whether she looked like a fright , she answered , `` I like your face better than I do your dress , because it is clean . '' 
Mary blushed painfully , as she tried to hide her bare feet with her dress , but she answered , `` When mother died I had only two pair , and Miss Grundy says I sha ` nt wear them every day . 
Henry gave a contemptuous whistle , and pointing to Mary 's feet , said , `` Ai n't they delicate ? 
The tears came into Mary 's eyes , and Jenny , throwing a stick at her brother , exclaimed , `` For shame , Henry Lincoln ! 
See , '' and she stuck up her little dumpy foot , about twice as thick as Mary 's . 
Oh , yes , '' said Mary quickly , `` he is all the friend I 've got in the world except Sal Furbush . '' 
`` I never thought of it , '' said Mary . 
Seeing that she was not observed , Jenny drew nearer to Mary and said , `` If you 'll never tell any body as long as you live and breathe , I 'll tell you something . '' 
Mary gave the required promise , and Jenny continued : `` I should n't like to have my mother know it , for she scolds all the time now about my ` vulgar tastes , ' though I 'm sure Rose likes the same things that I do , except Billy Bender , and it 's about him I was going to tell you . 
Mary hesitated a moment , for much as she liked Billy , there was another whom she loved better , though he had never been one half as kind to her as Billy had . 
After a time she answered , `` Yes , I like , or I did like George Moreland , but I shall never see him again ; '' and then she told Jenny of her home in England , of the long , dreary voyage to America , and of her father 's death ; but when she came to the sad night when her mother and Franky died , she could not go on , and laying her face in Jenny 's lap , she cried for a long time . 
Ere long , however , she resumed her reading , and then Jenny , softly caressing Mary , said , `` Do n't cry so , for I 'll love you , and we 'll have good times together too . 
said Mary , inquiringly . 
Mary felt that she would n't for the world have George know she was in the poor-house , and she quickly answered , `` No , no , you must n't tell him a word about me . 
He likes handsome girls , and so do I. '' Mary knew she had no beauty of which to boast , but Ella had , so she very naturally mentioned her sister , saying how much she wished to see her . 
`` I am going next Sunday , Sally and I , '' was Mary 's reply . 
`` Oh , I 'm glad , and I hope they 'll put you in my Sabbath school class , for Ella is in it , but if they do I 'll contrive to have Rose sit off a good ways because , -- because -- '' Here Jenny paused , but seeing that Mary was waiting for her to finish the sentence , she added , `` She 's proud , and sometimes laughs at poor girls . '' 
Jenny arose to obey , but whispered to Mary , `` You 'll find me most any time in these woods . 
Mary watched her until she disappeared among the bushes , and then she too started for home , with a lighter heart than she had known before for many a day . 
She had found a new friend , and though Miss Grundy scolded because she had been gone so long , and threatened to shut her up in Sal Furbush 's cage , she did not mind it , and actually commenced humming a tune while Miss Grundy was storming about a bowl of sour milk which she had found in the cupboard . 
Mary was willing to do whatever she could , but she often wished Mrs. Parker were able to be round , for then she was sure she would not have to work so hard . 
The first Sabbath Mary looked on in perfect amazement , but the next one she spent in her own room , and after a deal of trouble , succeeded in coaxing Sal to stay there too , listening while she read to her from her little Bible . 
But the reading was perplexing business , for Sal constantly corrected her pronunciation , or stopped her while she expounded Scripture , and at last in a fit of impatience Mary tossed the book into the crazy creature 's lap , asking her to read herself . 
This was exactly what Sal wanted , and taking the foot of Mary 's bed for her rostrum , she read and preached so furiously , that Mary felt almost glad when Miss Grundy came up to stop the racket , and locked Sal in her own room . 
TheSabbath following Mary 's first acquaintance with Jenny was the one on which she was to go to church . 
Mary would have preferred going alone , but Sally begged so hard , and promised so fairly `` not to make a speck of a face at the preacher , provided he used good grammar , '' that Mary finally asked Mr. Parker to let her go . 
And now , it was hard telling which looked forward to the next Sunday with the most impatience , Mary or Sal , the latter of whom was anxious to see the fashions , as she fancied her wardrobe was getting out of date . 
To Mary 's happiness there was one drawback . 
A few weeks before her mother 's death she had given to Ella her straw hat , which she had outgrown , and now the only bonnet she possessed was the veritable blue one of which George Moreland had made fun , and which by this time was nearly worn out . 
Mrs. Campbell , who tried to do right and thought that she did , had noticed Mary 's absence from church , and once on speaking of the subject before Hannah , the latter suggested that probably she had no bonnet , saying that the one which she wore at her mother 's funeral was borrowed . 
Mrs. Campbell immediately looked over her things , and selecting a straw which she herself had worn three years before , she tied a black ribbon across it , and sent it as a present to Mary . 
The bonnet had been rather large for Mrs. Campbell , and was of course a world too big for Mary , whose face looked in it , as Sal expressed it , `` like a yellow pippin stuck into the far end of a firkin . '' 
Miss Grundy , however , said `` it was plenty good enough for a pauper , '' reminding Mary that `` beggars should n't be choosers . '' 
Mary made no remark whatever , but she secretly wondered if Ella wore such a hat . 
Still her desire to see her sister and to visit her mother 's grave , prevailed over all other feelings , and on Sunday morning it was a very happy child which at about nine o'clock bounded down the stairway , tidily dressed in a ten cent black lawn and a pair of clean white pantalets . 
This being done , she waited until all around the house was still , and then creeping steathily to Mary 's room , she pinned the stockings to the pantalets , hanging the whole before the curtainless window , where the little girl could see them the moment she opened her eyes ! 
Mary well knew to whom she was indebted for this unexpected pleasure , and in her accustomed prayer that morning she remembered the poor old crazy woman , asking that the light of reason might again dawn upon her darkened mind . 
On descending to the kitchen , Mary found Sal waiting for her , and , as she had expected , rigged out in a somewhat fantastic style . 
Her dress , which was an old plum-colored silk , was altogether too short-waisted and too narrow for the prevailing fashion . 
A gauze handkerchief was thrown across her neck , and fastened to her belt in front by a large yellow bow . 
Her bonnet , which was really a decent one , was almost entirely covered by a thick green veil , and notwithstanding the sun was shining brightly , she carried in her hand a large blue cotton umbrella , for fear it would rain ! 
`` Come , child , '' said she , the moment Mary appeared , `` put on your tea-kettle -LRB- referring to the bonnet which Mary held in her hand -RRB- , and let us start . '' 
There was no looking-glass in Mary 's room , and she stepped before the one in the kitchen while she adjusted her hat , but her courage almost failed her as she saw the queer-looking image reflected by the mirror . 
She was unusually thin , and it seemed to her that her teeth were never so prominent before . 
Her eyes , always large , now looked unnaturally so , and as she placed what Sal had termed a `` tea-kettle '' upon her head , she half determined not to go . 
But Sal caught her hand , saying , `` Come , child , it 's time we were off . 
Billy had not come , but the pleasant-looking woman had succeeded in making friends with Alice , and as Mary passed out of the yard she saw her little sister spatting the window sill , and apparently well pleased with her new nurse . 
Scarcely were they out of sight of the house , when Sal , seating herself upon a large stone , commenced divesting her feet of her shoes and stockings . 
asked Mary , in great surprise . 
The shoes and stockings being carefully rolled up in a paper which Sal produced from her pocket , they walked briskly forward , and reached the village some time before the first bell rang for church . 
`` Come down this street , please , '' said Mary to her companion , who with slippers readjusted and umbrella hoisted was mincing along , courtesying to every one she met , and asking them how they did -- `` Come down this street ; I want to see my old home . '' 
Mary made no reply . 
With her head resting upon the garden fence , and one hand clasped around a shrub which Franky had set out , she was sobbing as though her heart would break . 
Very gently Sal laid her hand on Mary 's shoulder , and led her away , saying , `` What would I not have given for such a command of tears when Willie 's father died . 
The next time Mary raised her head they were opposite Mrs. Bender 's , where Sal declared it her intention to stop . 
As they were passing up to the side door , Billy , who heard their footsteps , came out , and shaking hands with Mary , and trying hard to keep from laughing at the wonderful courtesy , which Sal Furbush made him . 
`` Mother was so sick I could n't come , '' said Billy to Mary , while Sal , walking up to the bedside , asked , `` Is your sickness unto death , my good woman ? '' 
Mary looked inquiringly at Billy , and a smile but little according with his mother 's seeming distress parted his lips as he whispered , `` She was reading yesterday about a woman that had been bed-ridden with a spinal difficulty , and now she declares that she too ` has got a spine in her back , ' though I fancy she would be in a pretty predicament without one . 
Mary knew that Billy was very observing of dress , and she blushed painfully as she replied , that Mrs. Campbell gave it to her . 
Mary had been there at church before , but as she had always sat near the door , she did not know in what part of the building Mrs. Campbell 's pew was located . 
Mary knew that this was Ella , and involuntarily starting up , she leaned forward far enough to bring her bonnet directly in sight of some thoughtless girls , who immediately commenced tittering , and pointing her out to those near them . 
Mary felt instinctively that her companion was attracting more attention than her bonnet ; and twitching her dress , bade her sit down . 
Sal obeyed ; but she had no opportunity that morning of deciding whether the sermon were grammatical or not , for she was constantly on the look out , and whenever she saw any one scrutinizing Mary or herself more closely than they ought , a shake of her fist and a horrid face warned them to desist . 
Twice during church time Mary thought , nay felt sure that she caught her sister 's eye , but it was quickly withdrawn , as if unwilling to be recognized . 
Had she chosen , Mary could have touched the lady 's dress as she passed ; but she rather shrank from being seen , and would probably not have been observed at all , had not Sal planted herself directly in front of Mrs. Campbell , saying loudly enough for all near her to hear , `` Madam , do you not recognize your munificent gift of charity in yonder amazing bonnet ? '' 
at the same time pointing towards Mary , who nervously grasped the strings of her hat , as if to remove the offensive article . 
Mrs. Campbell haughtily pushed Sal aside , and advancing towards the child , said , `` I am glad to see you at church , Mary , and hope you will now come regularly . 
The words and manner were so cold and formal , that Mary was obliged to force down her tears before she replied , that she was going to her mother 's grave , and wanted Ella to go with her . 
Scarcely was she gone , when Jenny Lincoln came tripping up , and seizing both Mary 's hands , exclaimed , `` I am real glad you are here . 
Mary accompanied her young friend to a pew , at the door of which she met her sister face to face . 
There was a sudden exclamation of joy on Mary 's part , and an attempt to throw her arms around Ella 's neck , but the little girl drew back , and merely offering her hand , said , `` Oh , it 's you , is n't it ? 
was the next exclamation which reached Mary 's ear , as Rose Lincoln brushed past . 
Glancing from her sister to Rose , Mary half determined to tear the bonnet from her head and trample it under her feet , but Jenny softly squeezed her hand , and whispered , `` Do n't mind what Rose says ; I love you , and so does Billy Bender . 
It required more than Billy Bender 's love to soothe Mary then . 
Her sister 's cool reception , so different from what she had anticipated , had stung her heart ; and sitting down near the door , she burst into a passionate fit of tears . 
By the time Sabbath school was over , Mary had dried her tears ; and determining to make one more advance towards her sister , she said , `` Wo n't you go to mother 's grave with me ? 
But say , will you go with Mary ? 
`` I guess I wo n't , '' said Ella , and then , anxious to make Mary feel a little comfortable , she added , `` Mamma says Mary 's coming to see me before long , and then we 'll have a real good time . 
Glancing first at Mary , and then at Ella , Jenny replied , `` Pho , that 's nothing ; Mary knows more than you do , any way . 
Why , she can say every speck of the multiplication table , and you only know the 10 's ! '' 
When Ella was angry , or felt annoyed , she generally cried ; and now declaring that she knew more than the 10 's , she began to cry ; and announcing her intention of never speaking to Jenny again `` as long as she lived and breathed , '' she walked away , while Mary and Jenny proceeded together towards the burying ground . 
With a bitter cry Mary threw herself upon her mother 's grave , and wept for a long , long time . 
`` It would not be so bad , '' said Mary , `` if there was any body left , but I am all alone in the world . 
Mary only wept the more , wishing that she had died , and Allie too . 
At last remembering that she had left Sal Furbush behind her , and knowing that it was time for her to go , she arose , and leaning on Jenny , whose arm was passed lovingly about her , she started to return . 
Afternoon service had commenced ere they reached the church , and as Mary had no desire of again subjecting her bonnet to the ridicule of Rose Lincoln , and as Jenny had much rather stay out doors in the shade , they sat down upon the steps , wondering were Sal Furbush had taken herself . 
`` I mean to look in and see if she is here , '' said Jenny , and advancing on tiptoe to the open door , she cast her eye over the people within ; then clapping her hand over her mouth to keep back a laugh , she returned to Mary , saying , `` Oh , if it is n't the funniest thing in the world . 
When service was out , Sal gathered up her umbrella , and courtesying her way through the crowd , soon found Mary and started for home , declaring the clergyman to be `` a well-read grammarian , only a trifle too emphatic in his delivery . '' 
So the carriage dashed on , but Mary forgot the long walk by remembering the glance of affection which Jenny gave her as she looked back from the window . 
Mary saw there was something weighing upon her mind , but she forbore asking any questions , knowing that Sal would in her own good time make her thoughts known . 
In the excitement of the moment Sal arose , and throwing out her eyes , gesticulated in a manner rather alarming to Mary , who had never before seen so wild a look in the crazy woman 's eyes . 
Soon , however , her mood changed , and resuming her seat , she continued in a milder tone , `` Did you ever hear that I was an authoress ? '' 
repeated Mary -- `` an authoress ! 
`` I do n't understand , '' said Mary , and Sally continued : `` You see , I wrote about six hundred pages of foolscap , which the publisher to whom it was sent for examination was impolite enough to return , together with a note , containing , as I suppose , his reasons for rejection ; but if he thinks I read it , he 's mistaken . 
By a little dexterous management , however , she managed to find half of one , which Miss Grundy had tucked away under an empty candle-box for her own future eating . 
Jenny had heard the unkind remarks which Mary 's odd-looking bonnet elicited , and she now determined to give her this one , though she did not dare to do so without her mother 's consent . 
So after breakfast , when her mother was seated at her work in the parlor , Jenny drew near , making known her request , and asking permission to carry the bonnet to Mary herself . 
`` Do what you please with the bonnet , which I fancy you 'll find as much too small for Mary as the one she now has is too large . '' 
`` May I see Mary , just a little minute ? 
I 've got something for her . '' 
Miss Grundy was crosser than usual this morning on account of a sudden illness which had come upon Patsy , so she jerked her shoulders , and without turning her head , replied , `` It 's Monday mornin ' , and Mary ai n't goin ' to be hindered by big bugs nor nobody else . 
If you want to see her , you can go into the back room where she is . '' 
Nothing daunted by this ungracious reception , Jenny advanced towards the `` back room , '' where she found Mary at the `` sink , '' her arms immersed in dish-water , and a formidable pile of plates , platters and bowls all ready to be wiped , standing near her . 
Throwing aside her bonnet and seizing the coarse dish-towel , Jenny exclaimed , `` I 'm going to wipe dishes , Mary , I know how , and when they are done , if Miss Grundy wo n't let you go up stairs a minute , I 'll ask Mr. Parker . 
The dishes being done , and Miss Grundy making no objections , Mary accompanied Jenny up stairs , where the latter , opening her basket , held to view a neat-looking straw hat , far prettier than the one which Mrs. Campbell had presented . 
`` See , '' said she , placing it upon Mary 's head ; `` this is for you . 
The tears which fell from Mary 's eyes were caused not less by Jenny 's kindness , than by the thought that the haughty Rose Lincoln had given her a bonnet ! 
Mary felt that she was beginning to know , but she did not care to enlighten Jenny , who soon sprang up , saying she must go home , or her mother would be sending Henry after her . 
As soon as she saw Mary , she said , `` Clap on your bonnet quick , and run as fast as ever you can to Miss Thornfield 's . 
There was a tremor in her voice , and she seemed much excited , which surprised the girls , who fancied she would not care even if Patsy died . 
asked Mary , as she saw the bedroom door open , and two or three women standing near the bed . 
That night Mary was aroused from sleep , by some one whispering her name in her ear , and starting up , she saw Sally bending over her . 
Trembling in every joint , Mary arose and followed Sal , who led her towards the room where Patsy lay . 
As she drew near the door they paused , and by the light of the autumn moon , which streamed through the curtained window , Mary saw Miss Grundy kneeling by the cold body , and sobbing bitterly . 
Once she spoke , and Mary caught the words , `` My child , my poor child . '' 
Wonderingly she looked up to Sally for an explanation ; but the crazy woman only replied , as they returned to their rooms , `` Yes , -- there 's been queer doings some time or other , it 's very evident ; but I know one thing , I 'll never draw her profile again , and I 'll call her Mrs.Grundy after this ! '' 
Oneafternoon about the middle of October , Mary sat under an apple-tree in the orchard , weeping bitterly . 
She still wept on , unmindful of the sound of rapid footsteps upon the grass , nor until twice repeated did she hear the words , `` Why , Mary , what is the matter ? 
Laying her head on his shoulder , she sobbed out , `` She 's gone , -- she 's gone , and there 's nobody left but Sally . 
`` Jenny , '' was Mary 's reply . 
said Mary . 
repeated Mary with astonishment . 
asked Mary . 
At first Mary drew back in alarm , for the dog , though young , was unusually large ; but her fears soon vanished when she saw how affectionate he was , licking her own and Alice 's hands , and bounding playfully upon his master 's shoulders . 
`` He is a nice fellow , '' said she , stroking his shaggy sides . 
Three weeks from that time the winter school commenced ; and Billy took up his abode at the poor-house , greatly to the satisfaction of Sally and Mary , and greatly to the annoyance of Miss Grundy , who , since Patsy 's death , was crosser and more fault-finding than ever . 
and when she saw how happy his presence seemed to make Mary , she vented her displeasure upon her in various ways , conjuring up all sorts of reasons why she should stay out of school as often as possible , and wondering `` what the world was a coming to , when young ones hardly out of the cradle begun to court ! 
`` I would n't venture a great many remarks about my younger days , if I were you , Mrs.Grundy , '' said Sal , who had adhered to her resolution of always addressing her old enemy as Mrs. , though she whispered it to Mary as her opinion that the woman did n't fancy her new title . 
Much as Mary had learned to prize Sally 's friendship , before winter was over she had cause to value it still more highly . 
Wretched and destitute as the poor crazed creature now was , she showed plainly that at some period or other of her life , she had had rare advantages for education , which she now brought into use for Mary 's benefit . 
When Mary first commenced attending school , Miss Grundy insisted that she should knit every evening , and thus she found no opportunity for studying at home . 
One evening when , as usual , a part of the family were assembled around a blazing fire in the kitchen , Sal Furbush suddenly exclaimed , `` Mary , why do n't you bring your books home at night , just as Mr. Bender does . '' 
She had conceived a great respect for Billy , and always called him Mr.Mary cast a rueful glance at the coarse sock , which certainly was not growing fast , and replied , `` I should like to , but I have to knit all the time . '' 
`` Fudge on your everlasting knitting , '' said Sal , snatching the sock from Mary 's hands and making the needles fly nimbly . 
`` I 'm going to be very magnanimous , and every time you 'll bring your books home I 'll knit for you -- I beg , Mrs. Grundy , that you 'll not throw the fire all over the floor , '' she added , as that lady gave the forestick a violent kick . 
was Miss Grundy 's exclamation , when after supper the next evening she saw the three-legged stand loaded down with Billy 's and Mary 's school books . 
But as no one made her any reply , she quietly resumed her work , appropriating to her own use the only tallow candle there was burning , and leaving Billy and Mary to see as best they could by the firelight . 
For some time Mary pored over her lesson in Colburn , but coming to the question , `` 24 is & frac35 ; of how many times 10 ? '' 
she stopped , unable to proceed farther . 
Again and again she read it over , without gathering a single idea , and was on the point of asking Billy to assist her , when Sal , who had been watching her , said , `` Let me take your book , child . '' 
Mary did so , and then , as if conscious for the first time of Miss Grundy 's monopoly of the candle , Sal seized a large newspaper lying near , and twisting it up , said , `` Let there be light ; '' then thrusting one end of it into the flames and drawing it out again , added , `` and there is light . '' 
After tumbling over the leaves awhile , she continued , `` No , they did n't study this when I was young ; but tell me what 't is that troubles you . '' 
Mary pointed to the problem , and after looking at it attentively a moment , Sal said , `` The answer to it is 4 ; and if you will give me some little inkling of the manner in which you are taught to explain them at school , perhaps I can tell you about that . '' 
`` It begins in this way , '' said Mary . 
`` Oh , yes , that 's it , '' exclaimed Mary , who began to understand it herself . 
But , '' she added in another tone , `` I 've concluded to leave out the Grundy gender ! '' 
Each night after this Mary brought home her books , and the rapid improvement which she made in her studies was as much owing to Sally 's useful hints and assistance as to her own untiring perseverance . 
One day when she returned from school Sally saw there was something the matter , for her eyes were red and her cheeks flushed as if with weeping . 
On inquiring of Billy , she learned that some of the girls had been teasing Mary about her teeth , calling them `` tushes , '' & c . 
Sally was quite a favorite with the doctor , who readily consented , on condition that Mary was willing , which he much doubted , as such teeth came hard . 
It 's all that makes her so homely , '' said Sal ; and going in quest of Mary , she led her to the doctor , who asked to look in her mouth . 
`` Stand still , '' said Sal , more sternly than she had ever before spoken to Mary , who , half frightened out of her wits , stood still while the other one was extracted . 
For a time Mary cried and spit , hardly knowing whether she relished the joke or not ; but when Billy praised her improved looks , telling her that `` her mouth was real pretty , '' and when she herself dried her eyes enough to see that it was a great improvement , she felt better , and wondered why she had never thought to have them out before . 
Rapidly and pleasantly to Mary that winter passed away , for the presence of Billy was in itself a sufficient reason why she should be happy . 
He was so affectionate and brother-like in his deportment towards her , that she began questioning whether she did not love him as well , if not better , than she did her sister Ella , whom she seldom saw , though she heard that she had a governess from Worcester , and was taking music lessons on a grand piano which had been bought a year before . 
he thought more than once , as he contrasted the situation of the two girls , -- the one petted , caressed , and surrounded by every luxury , and the other forlorn , desolate , and the inmate of a poor-house ; and then he built castles of a future , when , by the labor of his own head or hands , Mary , too , should be rich and happy . 
But she would not tell it to Mary , whose life now seemed a comparatively happy one . 
Jenny was coming back ere long , and Mary 's step was light and buoyant as she tripped singing about the house , unmindful of Miss Grundy 's oft-expressed wish that `` she would stop that clack , '' or of the anxious , pitying eyes Sal Furbush bent upon her , as day after day the faithful old creature rocked and tended little Alice . 
So night after night , when Mary was sleeping the deep sleep of childhood , Sally would steal noiselessly to her room , and bending over the little wasting figure at her side , would wipe the cold sweat from her face , and whisper in the unconscious baby 's ear messages of love for `` the other little Willie , now waiting for her in Heaven . '' 
At last Mary could no longer be deceived , and one day when Alice lay gasping in Sally 's lap she said , `` Aunt Sally , is n't Alice growing worse ? 
Sally laid her hand on Mary 's face and replied , `` Poor child , you 'll soon be all alone , for Willie 's going to find his mother . '' 
There was no outcry , -- no sudden gush of tears , but nervously clasping her hands upon her heart , as if the shock had entered there , Mary sat down upon her bed , and burying her face in the pillow , sat there for a long time . 
But she said nothing , and a careless observer might have thought that she cared nothing , as it became each day more and more evident that Alice was dying . 
`` Oh , if she would only come and see her , '' said Mary , `` it would n't seem half so bad . '' 
Mary had not thought of this before , and now tearing a leaf from her writing-book , and taking her pen , she wrote hurriedly , `` Ella , dear Ella , wo n't you come and see little Alice once before she dies ? 
Be that as it may , her tears fell upon the paper and mingled with Mary 's as she replied , `` Ella shall come this afternoon . '' 
But before afternoon a drizzling shower came on , and Mary watched and wept in vain , for Ella did not come . 
Mary was not called to wash the dishes , but up in her own room she sat with her head resting upon the window sill , while the sweet , fresh air of the morning swept over her face , lifting the hair from her flushed brow . 
Billy Bender was standing near her , his arm thrown around her , and his lips occasionally pressing her forehead . 
Suddenly there was the sound of carriage wheels , and he whispered in her ear , `` Ella is coming . '' 
Hastily running down the stairs , Mary met her sister in the doorway , and throwing her arms around her neck , burst into tears . 
But Mary firmly held her hand , and led her on through the long hall , into a room which they usually denominated `` the best room . '' 
Gently Mary laid back the thin muslin covering , saying as she did so , `` Allie is dead . 
and again her arms closed convulsively about Ella 's neck . 
`` It is hardly natural that she should feel it as deeply as Mary , '' said Mrs. Campbell to Billy Bender , who was present . 
At first there was some talk of burying the child in the same inclosure with Patsy ; but Mary plead so earnestly to have her laid by her mother , that her request was granted , and that night when the young spring moon came out , it looked quietly down upon the grave of little Alice , who by her mother 's side was sweetly sleeping . 
Mary , who had resumed her post as dish washer in the kitchen , was almost daily expecting Jenny ; and one day when Billy came in to dinner , he gave her the joyful intelligence that Jenny had returned , and had been in the field to see him , bidding him tell Mary to meet her that afternoon in the woods by the brook . 
`` Oh , I do hope Miss Grundy will let me go , '' said Mary , `` and I guess she will , for since Allie died , she has n't been near so cross . '' 
But Miss Grundy made no objections , and when the last dishcloth was wrung dry , and the last iron spoon put in its place , Mary bounded joyfully away to the woods , where she found Jenny , who embraced her in a manner which showed that she had not been forgotten . 
`` Oh , '' said she , `` I 've got so much to tell you , and so much to hear , though I know all about dear little Allie 's death , -- did n't you feel dreadfully ? '' 
Mary 's tears were a sufficient answer , and Jenny , as if suddenly discovering something new , exclaimed , `` Why , what have you been doing ? 
Mary explained the circumstance of the tooth-pulling , and Jenny continued : `` You look a great deal better , and if your cheeks were only a little fatter and your skin not quite so yellow , you 'd be real handsome ; but no matter about that . 
Mary wondered howhe looked at her , and would perhaps have asked , had she not been prevented by the sudden appearance of Henry Lincoln , who directly in front of her leaped across the brook . 
He was evidently not much improved in his manners , for the moment he was safely landed on terra firma , he approached her , and seizing her round the waist , exclaimed , `` Hallo , little pauper ! 
Then drawing her head over so that he could look into her face , he continued , `` Had your tusks out , have n't you ? 
Mary struggled , and Jenny scolded , while Henry said , `` Do n't kick and flounce so , my little beauty . 
Here Jenny 's wrath exploded ; and going up to her brother , she attempted to pull him away , until bethinking her of the brook , she commenced sprinkling him with water , but observing that more of it fell upon Mary than her brother , she desisted , while Henry , having accomplished his purpose , began spitting and making wry faces , assuring Mary that `` she need n't be afraid of his ever troubling her again , for her lips were musty , and tasted of the poor-house ! '' 
Meanwhile Tasso , who had become a great favorite with Mary , and who , on this occasion , had accompanied her to the woods , was standing on the other side of the brook , eyeing Henry 's movements , and apparently trying to make up his mind whether his interference was necessary or not . 
Jenny , who was too chubby to be very swift-footed , took refuge behind a clump of alder bushes ; but Mary kept on , and just as she reached a point where the brook turned , Henry overtook her , and would perhaps have carried his threat into execution , had not help arrived from an unexpected quarter . 
Mary could not help laughing at the figure which Henry cut ; but thinking him sufficiently punished , she called off the dog , who obeyed rather unwillingly , and ever after manifested his dislike to Henry by growling angrily whenever he appeared . 
One morning about two weeks afterwards , Mary was in the meadow gathering cowslips for dinner , when she heard some one calling her name ; and looking up , she saw Jenny hurrying towards her , her sunbonnet hanging down her back as usual , and her cheeks flushed with violent exercise . 
Mary replied that she did , and Jenny continued : `` We all went over there yesterday to see Mrs. Mason . 
asked Mary , and Jenny replied : `` If a person dies and leaves no money , no matter how good his folks are , or how much you like them , you must n't know them when you meet them in the street , or you must cross over the other side if you see them coming ; and then when ladies call and speak about them , you must draw a great long breath , and wonder ` how the poor thing will get along , she was so dreadful extravagant . ' 
asked Mary . 
So saying , she ran off ; and Mary , having gathered her cowslips , sat down to think of Mrs. Mason , and wonder if she should ever see her . 
Mary readily guessed that the lady must be Mrs. Mason and carefully brushing her hair , and tying on a clean apron , she descended to the kitchen , where she was met by Mr. Knight , who called out , `` Hallo , my child , how do you do ? 
pointing towards a lady , who was just coming from Mrs. Parker 's room , and towards whom Mary 's heart instantly warmed . 
`` If you please , sir , '' said Mary , interrupting him , `` Jenny is n't a bit stuck up . '' 
Miss Mason , this is Mary . 
Mary , this is Miss Mason . '' 
The introduction being thus happily over , Mrs. Mason proceeded to ask Mary a variety of questions , and ended by saying she thought she would take her , although she would rather not have her come for a few days , as she was going to be absent . 
Mary saw that Mrs. Mason could hardly repress a smile as she replied , `` I am glad about the temper and manners , but the scouring of knives is of little consequence , for Judith always does that . '' 
Sal Furbush , who had courtesied herself into the room , now asked to say a word concerning Mary . 
`` She is , '' said she , `` the very apple of my eye , and can parse a sentence containing three double relatives , two subjunctive moods , and four nominatives absolute , perfectly easily . '' 
`` I see you are a favorite here , '' said Mrs. Mason , laying her hand gently on Mary 's head , `` and I think that in time you will be quite as much of one with me , so one week from Saturday you may expect me . '' 
There was something so very affectionate in Mrs. Mason 's manner of speaking , that Mary could not keep her tears back ; and when Sally , chancing to be in a poetic mood , said to her , `` Maiden , wherefore weepest thou ? '' 
`` That 's what I call a thoroughly grammatical lady , '' said Sal , looking after her until a turn in the road hid her from view , `` and I shall try to be resigned , though the vital spark leaves this house when Mary goes . '' 
`` 'Cause , '' returned Rind , `` I heard Sal Furbush having over a mess of stuff about the spark ` sleaving when Mary did , and I thought mebby he was going , as you say he 's her spark ! '' 
`` I 'd rather you would n't , '' said Mary , `` for I do n't believe he remembers me at all . '' 
That night , when Mary was alone , she drew from its hiding-place the golden locket , but the charm was broken , and the pleasure she had before experienced in looking at it , now faded away with Jenny 's picture of a whiskered young man , six feet high ! 
Very rapidly indeed did Mary 's last week at the poor-house pass away , and for some reason or other , every thing went on , as Rind said , `` wrong end up . '' 
Miss Grundy was crosser than usual , though all observed that her voice grew milder in its tone whenever she addressed Mary , and once she went so far as to say , by way of a general remark , that she `` never yet treated any body , particularly a child , badly , without feeling sorry for it . '' 
Sal Furbush was uncommonly wild , dancing on her toes , making faces , repeating her nine hundred and ninety-nine rules of grammar , and quoting Scripture , especially the passage , `` The Lord gave , and the Lord taketh away , & c. '' Uncle Peter , too , labored assiduously at `` Delia 's Dirge , '' which he intended playing as Mary was leaving the yard . 
Saturday came at last , and long before the sun peeped over the eastern hills , Mary was up and dressed . 
Just as she was ready to leave her room , she heard Sally singing in a low tone , `` Oh , there 'll be mourning , -- mourning , -- mourning , -- mourning , Oh , there 'll be mourning when Mary 's gone away . '' 
Hastily opening her own door , she knocked at Sal 's , and was bidden to enter . 
She found her friend seated in the middle of the floor , while scattered around her were the entire contents of the old barrel and box which contained her wearing apparel . 
`` Good morning , little deary , '' said she , `` I am looking over my somewhat limited wardrobe , in quest of something wherewith to make your young heart happy , but my search is vain . 
So saying , she thrust into Mary 's hand a large package , carefully wrapped in half a dozen newspapers , and the whole enveloped in a snuff-colored silk handkerchief , which `` Willie 's father used to wear . '' 
Here Rind came up the stairs , saying breakfast was ready , and after putting her present aside , Mary descended to the kitchen , where she found the table arranged with more than usual care . 
An old red waiter , which was only used on special occasions , was placed near Miss Grundy , and on it stood the phenomenon of a hissing coffee-pot : and what was stranger still , in the place of the tin basin from which Mary had recently been accustomed to eat her bread and milk , there was now a cup and saucer , which surely must have been intended for her . 
Her wonder was at its height when Miss Grundy entered from the back room , bearing a plate filled with snowy white biscuit , which she placed upon the table with an air of `` There ! 
-- then seating herself , she skimmed all the cream from the bowl of milk , and preparing a delicious cup of coffee , passed it to Mary , before helping the rest . 
Breakfast being over , Mary as usual commenced clearing the table , but Miss Grundy bade her `` sit down and resther , '' and Mary obeyed , wondering what she had done to tire herself . 
He was answered by Mary herself , who made her appearance , followed by Billy bearing the box . 
said Mary , while Sal exclaimed aside , `` What ! 
at the same time indicating by a guttural sound the probable effect such a process would have upon her stomach ! 
Billy knew it would be lonely without Mary , but he was glad to have her go to a better home , so he tried to be cheerful , telling her he would take good care of Tasso , and that whenever she chose she must claim her property . 
Occasionally , too , she pressed her hands upon her head , and walking to the sink , bathed it in water , as if to cool its inward heat ; but she said nothing until Mary was about stepping into the buggy , when she whispered in her ear , `` If that novel should have an unprecedented run , and of course it will , you would not mind sharing the profits with me , would you ? '' 
Verydifferent this time was Mary 's ride with Mr. Knight from what it had been some months before , and after brushing away a few natural tears , and sending back a few heart-sighs to the loved ones left behind , her spirits rallied , and by the time they reached the borders of Rice Corner , there was such a look of quiet happiness on her face that even Mr. Knight noticed it . 
`` Perhaps it 's because I 've had my teeth out , '' suggested Mary , and Mr. Knight , with another scrutinizing look in her face , replied , `` Wall , I guess 't is that . 
As they rode on , Mary fancied that the country looked pleasanter and the houses better , than in the region of the poor-house ; and when a sudden turn of the road brought into view a beautiful blue sheet of water , embosomed by bright green hills , her delight knew no bounds . 
Springing up and pointing towards it , she exclaimed , `` Oh , please stop a moment and look . 
asked Mary . 
`` Why , yes , '' returned her companion . 
asked Mary , casting longing glances towards the distant sandy beach , and the graceful trees which drooped over the water 's edge . 
There was a long lawn in front , and into the carriage road on the right of it Mr. Knight turned , and driving up to a side door , said to Mary , `` Come , jump down , for my foot is so lame I do n't believe I 'll get out . 
Judith complied , and then bidding old Charlotte to `` get up , '' Mr. Knight drove away , leaving Mary standing by the kitchen door `` Come in and sit down , '' said Judith , pushing a chair towards Mary with her foot . 
Mary took the proffered seat , and then Judith left the room for a few moments , saying when she returned , that as Mrs. Mason was still suffering from a headache , she could not see Mary until after dinner . 
`` Washing dishes , '' was Mary 's reply , after glancing about the room , and making sure that on this occasion there were none to wash . 
Mary replied in the negative , and Judith continued : `` Wall , now , you 've got over the first o n't , I reckon you ` se glad the baby 's dead , for she must have been kind of a bother , was n't she ? '' 
Instantly Mary 's thoughts flew back to an empty cradle , and again a little golden head was pillowed upon her breast , as often in times past it had been , and as it would never be again . 
Accordingly , when the snap was done , Judith placed it in Mary 's hands , bidding her eat it quick , and then go up and see the nice chamber Mrs. Mason had arranged for her . 
`` If you please , '' said Mary , rapidly shifting the hot cake from one hand to the other , -- `` if you please , I had rather go up now , and eat the cake when it is cool . '' 
`` Come , then , '' said Judith ; and leading the way , she conducted Mary up the staircase , and through a light , airy hall to the door of a small room , which she opened , saying , `` Look , ai n't it pretty ? '' 
But Mary 's heart was too full to speak , and for several minutes she stood silent . 
With the exception of her mother 's pleasant parlor in Old England , she had never before seen any thing which seemed to her so cosy and cheerful as did that little room , with its single bed , snowy counterpane , muslin curtains , clean matting , convenient toilet table , and what to her was fairer than all the rest , upon the mantel-piece there stood two small vases , filled with sweet spring flowers , whose fragrance filled the apartment with delicious perfume . 
All this was so different from the bare walls , uncovered floors , and rickety furniture of the poor-house , that Mary trembled lest it should prove a dream , from which erelong she would awake . 
was her mental exclamation ; and as some of our readers may ask the same question , we will explain to them that Mrs. Mason was one of the few who `` do to others as they would others should do to them . '' 
Years before our story opens , she , too , was a lonely orphan , weeping in a dreary garret , as ofttimes Mary had wept in the poor-house , and it was the memory of those dark hours , which so warmed her heart towards the little girl she had taken under her charge . 
From Jenny we have learned something of her history . 
She had taken a particular fancy to Mary , and in giving her a home , she had thought more of the good she could do the child , than of any benefit she would receive from her services as waiting maid . 
She had fully intended to go for Mary herself ; but as we already know , was prevented by a severe headache , and it was not until three o'clock in the afternoon , that she was even able to see her at all . 
Then , calling Judith , she bade her bring the little girl to her room , and leave them alone . 
Judith obeyed , charging Mary to `` tread on tiptoe , and keep as still as a mouse , for Miss Mason 's head ached fit to split . '' 
This caution was unnecessary ; for Mary had been so much accustomed to sick persons that she knew intuitively just what to do , and when to do it , and her step was so light , her voice so low , and the hand which bathed the aching head so soft and gentle in its touch , that Mrs. Mason involuntarily drew her to her bosom , and kissing her lips , called her her child , and said she should never leave her ; then laying back in her easy chair , she remained perfectly still , while Mary alternately fixed her hair , and smoothed her forehead until she fell into a quiet slumber , from which she did not awake until Judith rang the bell for supper , which was neatly laid out in a little dining parlor , opening into the flower garden . 
There was something so very social and cheering in the appearance of the room , and the arrangement of the table , with its glossy white cloth , and dishes of the same hue , that Mary felt almost as much like weeping as she did on the night of her arrival at the poor-house . 
But Mrs. Mason seemed to know exactly how to entertain her ; and by the time that first tea was over , there was hardly a happier child in the world than was Mary . 
`` Git away now , '' said that lady as she saw Mary making preparations to wash the cups and saucers . 
Accordingly , she returned to Mrs. Mason , who , wishing to retire early , soon dismissed her to her own room , where she for some time amused herself with watching the daylight as it gradually disappeared from the hills which lay beyond the pond . 
TheTuesday following Mary 's arrival at Mrs. Mason 's , there was a social gathering at the house of Mr. Knight . 
Mrs. Knight , fancying that affairs were assuming altogether too formidable an aspect , adroitly turned the conversation upon the heroine of our story , saying how glad she was that Mary had at last found so good a home . 
No one replied to her remark , and Mrs. Bates continued : `` It really used to make my heart ache to see the little forlorn thing sit there in the gallery , fixed up so old and fussy , and then to see her sister prinked out like a milliner 's show window , a puckerin ' and twistin ' , and if she happens to catch her sister 's eye , I have actually seen her turn up her nose at her , -- so -- '' and Mrs. Bates 's nasal organ went up towards her eyebrows in imitation of the look which Ella sometimes gave Mary . 
`` I think Mrs. Campbell is answerable for some of Ella 's conduct , '' said Mrs. Knight , `` for I believe she suffered her to visit the poor-house but once while Mary was there . '' 
`` I guess she 'll come oftener now she 's living with a city bug , '' rejoined Mrs. Perkins . 
Just then there was the sound of carriage wheels , and a woman near the door exclaimed , `` If you 'll believe it there she is now , going right straight into Mrs. Mason 's yard . '' 
As Mrs. Knight 's guests had surmised , she was far more ready to visit Mary now than heretofore . 
Accordingly Ella was prepared to greet her sister more cordially than she had done before in a long time , and Mary that day took her first lesson in learning that too often friends come and go with prosperity . 
But she did not think of it then . 
She only knew that her sister 's arm was around her neck , and her sister 's kiss upon her cheek . 
With a cry of joy , she exclaimed , `` Oh , Ella , I knew you 'd be glad to find me so happy . '' 
She was too thoroughly heartless to care for any one except herself , and her reception of her sister was more the result of Sarah 's lesson , and of a wish expressed by Mrs. Campbell , that she would `` try and behave as well as she could towards Mary . '' 
`` Well , you will find it a task to rear her as she should be reared , but a consciousness of doing right makes every thing seem easy . 
`` You may go into the garden , '' said Mrs. Mason to Mary , who arose to obey ; but Ella hung back , saying she `` did n't want to go , -- the garden was all nasty , and she should dirty her clothes . '' 
Still Ella hesitated , and when Mary took hold of her hand , she jerked it away , saying , `` Let me be . '' 
At last she was persuaded to leave the room , but on reaching the hall she stopped , and to Mary 's amazement applied her ear to the keyhole . 
`` I guess I know how to cheat her , '' said she in a whisper . 
repeated Mary . 
`` Oh , ` set me up , ' as Sarah says , '' returned Ella ; and Mary , who had never had the advantage of a waiting maid , and who consequently was not so well posted on `` slang terms , '' asked what `` setting up '' meant . 
This time , however , Mrs. Campbell 's conversation related more particularly to Mary . 
`` My dear Mrs. Mason , '' she began , `` you do not know how great a load you have removed from my mind by taking Mary from the poor-house . '' 
This , however , can not be helped , and now , as I said before I only wish it were in your power to do more for Mary . 
`` Still I hope you will make every exertion in your power to educate and polish Mary as much as possible , so that if by chance Ella in after years should come in contact with her , she would not feel , -- ahem , -- would not , -- would not be -- '' `` Ashamed to own her sister , I suppose you would say , '' interrupted Mrs. Mason . 
Now you must know that Ella would not be particularly pleased to have a homely , stupid , rawboned country girl pointed out as her sister to a circle of fashionable acquaintances in Boston , where I intend taking her as soon as her education is finished ; and I think it well enough for Mary to understand , that with the best you can do for her there will still be a great difference between her own and her sister 's position . '' 
`` Excuse me , madam , '' again interrupted Mrs. Mason , `` a stupid , awkward country girl Mary is not , and never will be . 
In point of intellect she is far superior to her sister , and possesses more graceful and lady-like manners . 
Pardon me for being thus plain , but in the short time Mary has been with me , I have learned to love her , and my heart already warms towards her as towards a daughter , and I can not calmly hear her spoken of so contemptuously . '' 
During this conversation , Ella had remained listening at the keyhole , and as the voices grew louder and more earnest , Mary , too , distinguished what they said . 
She was too young to appreciate it fully , but she understood enough to wound her deeply ; and as she just then heard Ella say there was a carriage coming , she sprang up the stairs , and entering her own room , threw herself upon the bed and burst into tears . 
Erelong a little chubby face looked in at the door , and a voice which went to Mary 's heart , exclaimed , `` Why-ee , -- Mary , -- crying the first time I come to see you ! '' 
`` Yes , very much , '' answered Mary . 
`` It is n't that , '' and then she told what she had overheard . 
Mary was sure of it ; and then Jenny proceeded to open her budget of news concerning the inmates of the poor-house . 
Erelong the little tea-bell rang , and Mrs. Lincoln , who had not before spoken to Mary , now turned haughtily towards her , requesting her to watch while they were at supper and see if the coachman did not drive off with the horses as he sometimes did . 
Mary could not trust herself to reply for she had agreed to sit next Jenny at table , and had in her own mind decided to give her little friend her share of berries . 
Jenny did not miss her companion until she was sitting down to the table , and then noticing an empty plate between herself and her mother , who managed to take up as much room as possible , she rather impolitely called out , `` Here , mother , sit along and make room for Mary . 
That 's her place . 
Why , where is she ? 
Mrs. Mason , who had seen and heard more than Mary fancied , and who in seating her guests had contrived to bring Mary 's plate next to Mrs. Lincoln , nodded , and Jenny springing up ran to the parlor , where Mary stood counting flies , looking up at the ceiling , and trying various other ways to keep from crying . 
Seizing both her hands Jenny almost dragged her into the dining-room , where she found it rather difficult squeezing in between her mother and Rose , whose elbows took up much more room than was necessary . 
A timely pinch , however , duly administered , sent the young lady along an inch or so , and Jenny and Mary were at last fairly seated . 
Mrs. Lincoln reddened , -- Mrs. Campbell looked concerned , -- Mrs. Mason amused , -- Rose angry , -- Mary mortified , -- while Ella , who was not quick enough to understand , did not look at all except at her strawberries , which disappeared rapidly . 
There was no reason why Mary should blush at the mention of George Moreland , still she did do so , while Jenny slyly stepped upon her toes . 
This allusion to Mary , reminded Mrs. Campbell of her conversation with Mrs. Mason , and laughingly she repeated it . 
Why , she really seemed quite angry , and tried hard to make Mary out beautiful , and graceful , and all that . '' 
`` And , '' chimed in Ella , who was angry at Mrs. Mason for defending her sister , and angry at her sister for being defended , `` do n't you think she said that Mary ought to be ashamed of me . '' 
`` Is it possible she was so impudent ! '' 
Mrs. Campbell 's advice with regard to Mary , made no difference whatever with Mrs. Mason 's plans . 
Accordingly in a few days Mary became a regular attendant at the old brown school-house , where for a time we will leave her , and , passing silently over a period of several years , again in another chapter open the scene in the metropolis of the `` Old Bay State . '' 
As he proceeded with his story , George became each moment more and more interested , and when at last there was a pause , he asked , `` And is Mary in the poor-house now ? '' 
`` I have not mentioned her name , and pray how came you to know it ? '' 
In a few words George related the particulars of his acquaintance with the Howards , and then again asked where both Mary and Ella were . 
Billy replied that for a few years back Mary had lived with a Mrs. Mason , while Ella , at the time of her mother 's death had been adopted by Mrs. Campbell . 
`` But , '' said he , `` I never think of Ella in connection with Mary , they are so unlike ; Ella is proud and vain and silly , and treats her sister with the utmost rudeness , though Mary is far more agreeable and intelligent , and as I think the best looking . 
`` She must have changed very much , '' answered George , `` for if I remember rightly , she was not remarkable for personal beauty . '' 
`` She has n't a silly , doll baby 's face , but there is n't a finer looking girl in Chicopee , no , nor in Boston either , '' returned Billy , with so much warmth and earnestness that George laughed aloud , saying , `` Why , really , Bender , you are more eloquent on the subject of female beauty than I supposed you to be ; but go on ; tell me more of her . 
`` Several weeks , I think , '' answered George ; and then , either because he wanted to hear what Henry would say , or because of a re-awakened interest in Mary Howard , he continued , `` By the way , Henry , when you came so unceremoniously upon us , we were speaking of a young girl in Chicopee , whom you have perhaps ferreted out ere this , as Bender says she is fine looking . '' 
Billy frowned , for he held Mary 's name as too sacred to be breathed by a young man of Henry Lincoln 's character , while George replied , `` Her name is Mary Howard . '' 
There was a look in Billy 's eye as Henry finished this speech , which decided that young man to make no further remarks concerning Mary , and swaggering towards the door he added , `` Well , Moreland , when will you come round and take a horn of brandy ? 
He had known Mary long , and the interest he had felt in her when a homely , neglected child , had not in the least decreased as the lapse of time gradually ripened her into a fine , intelligent-looking girl . 
He was to her a brother still , but she to him was dearer far than a sister ; and though in his letters he always addressed her as such , in his heart he claimed her as something nearer , and yet he had never breathed in her ear a word of love , or hinted that it was for her sake he toiled both early and late , hoarding up his earnings with almost a miser 's care , that she might be educated . 
Regularly each week she wrote to him , and it was the receipt of these letters , and the thoughts of her , that kept his heart so brave and cheerful , as , alone and unappreciated , except by George , he worked on , dreaming of a bright future , when the one great object of his life should be realized . 
Inthe old brown school-house , overshadowed by apple-trees , and sheltered on the west by a long steep hill , where the acorns and wild grapes grew , Mary Howard taught her little flock of twenty-five , coaxing some , urging others , and teaching them all by her kind words and winsome ways to love her as they had never before loved an instructor . 
When first she was proposed as a teacher in Rice Corner , Widow Perkins , and a few others who had no children to send , held up their hands in amazement , wondering `` what the world was comin ' to , and if the committee man , Mr. Knight , s ` posed they was goin ' to be rid over rough-shod by a town pauper ; but she could n't get a stifficut , for the Orthodox minister would n't give her one ; and if he did , the Unitarian minister would n't ! '' 
Accordingly , when it was known that the ordeal had been passed , and that Mary had in her possession a piece of paper about three inches square , authorizing her to teach a common district school , this worthy conclave concluded that `` either every body had lost their senses , or else Miss Mason , who was present at the examination , had sat by and whispered in her ear the answers to all hard questions . '' 
I want it eat up , for I believe it 's a workin ' , -- but I telled her that war n't the trouble ; Mary 's too softly to hurt a miskeeter . 
It 's government she 'll lack in . 
Of course , nobody wanted a piece , and one of the ladies , continuing the conversation , said she supposed Mary would of course board with Mrs. Mason . 
The tea-pot lid , which chanced to be off , went on with a jerk , and with the air of a much injured woman the widow replied : `` Wall , I can tell her this much , it 's no desirable job to board the school-marm , though any body can see that 's all made her so anxious for Mary to have the school . 
She 's short o n't , and wants a little money . 
Do any on you know how much she charges ? '' 
Nobody knew , but a good many `` guessed she did n't charge any thing , '' and the widow , rising from the table and telling Sally Ann to `` rense the sass dishes , and pour it in the vinegar bottle , '' led her guests back to the best room , saying , `` a dollar and ninepence -LRB- her usual price -RRB- was next to nothing , but she 'd warrant Miss Mason had more 'n that . '' 
Fortunately , Mary knew nothing of Mrs. Perkins 's displeasure , and never dreamed that any feeling existed towards her , save that of perfect friendship . 
Since we last saw her , she had grown into a fine , healthy-looking girl . 
Her face and figure were round and full , and her complexion , though still rather pale , was clear as marble , contrasting well with her dark brown hair and eyes , which no longer seemed unnaturally large . 
Still she was not beautiful , it is true , and yet Billy was not far from right when he called her the finest looking girl in Chicopee ; and it was for this reason , perhaps , that Mrs. Campbell watched her with so much jealousy . 
Ella would not forgive Mrs. Mason for praising Mary , nor forgive Mary for being praised ; and as Mrs. Campbell , too , pretended to feel insulted , the intercourse between the families gradually ceased ; and oftentimes when Ella met her sister , she merely acknowledged her presence by a nod , or a simple `` how d'ye do ? '' 
When she heard that Mary was to be a teacher , she said `` she was glad , for it was more respectable than going into a factory , or working out . '' 
Mrs. Campbell , too , felt in duty bound to express her pleasure , adding , that `` she hoped Mary would give satisfaction , but 't was extremely doubtful , she was soyoung , and possessed of so little dignity ! '' 
Now Mrs. Perkins 's clock was like its mistress , always half an hour in advance of the true time , and Mary had scarcely taught a week ere Mr. Knight , `` the committee man , '' was duly hailed in the street , and told that the `` school-marm wanted lookin ' to , for she did n't begin no mornin ' till half-past nine , nor no afternoon till half-past one ! 
Besides that , '' she added , `` I think she gives 'em too long a play spell . 
The widow , thus foiled in her attempts at making disturbance , finally gave up the strife , contenting herself with quizzing the older girls , and asking them if Mary could do all the hard sums in Arithmetic , or whether she took them home for Mrs. Mason to solve ! 
Old leathern-bound Daboll , too , was brought to light , and its most difficult problems selected and sent to Mary , who , being an excellent mathematician , worked them all out to the widow 's astonishment . 
But when it was known that quill pens had been discarded , and steel ones substituted in their place , Mrs. Perkins again looked askance , declaring that Mary could n't make a quill pen , and by way of testing the matter , Sally Ann was sent across the road with a huge bunch of goose quills , which `` Miss Howard '' was politely requested `` to fix , as ma wanted to write some letters . '' 
Mary candidly confessed her ignorance , saying she had never made a pen in her life ; and the next Sabbath the widow 's leghorn was missed from its accustomed pew in the Unitarian church , and upon inquiry , it was ascertained that `` she could n't in conscience hear a man preach who would give a ` stifficut ' to a girl that did n't know how to make a pen ! '' 
In spite , however , of these little annoyances , Mary was contented and happy . 
She knew that her pupils loved her , and that the greater part of the district were satisfied , so she greeted the widow with her pleasantest smile , and by always being particularly polite to Sally Ann , finally overcame their prejudices to a considerable extent . 
`` Miss Howard , -- Mary Howard , and she lives with Miss Mason . '' 
`` Mary Howard , -- that 's a pretty name , -- is she pretty too ? '' 
`` She licked brother Tim to-day , and I do n't think she 's much pretty . '' 
With her usual politeness , Mary came forward and received the stranger , who gave his name as Mr. Stuart , saying , `` he felt much interested in common schools , and therefore had ventured to call . '' 
Offering the seat of honor , viz. , the splint-bottomed chair , Mary resumed her usual duties , occasionally casting a look of curiosity at the stranger , whose eyes seemed constantly upon her . 
It was rather warm that day , and when Mary returned from her dinner , Widow Perkins was greatly shocked at seeing her attired in a light pink muslin dress , the short sleeves of which showed to good advantage her round white arms . 
A narrow velvet ribbon confined by a small brooch , and a black silk apron , completed her toilet , with the exception of a tiny locket , which was suspended from her neck by a slender gold chain . 
`` Certainly , sir , '' said she , and stepping to the desk and consulting a silver time-piece about the size of a diningplate , she told him that it was half-past three . 
Mr. Stuart immediately arose and offered his chair , but there was something in his manner which led Mary to suppose that an introduction was not at all desired , so she omitted it , greatly to the chagrin of the widow , who , declining the proffered seat , squeezed herself between Lydia Knight and another girl , upsetting the inkstand of the one , and causing the other to make a curious character out of the letter `` X '' she chanced to be writing . 
Accordingly , Mrs. Perkins , smoothing down her gingham flounces , and drawing on her cotton gloves , arose to go , asking Mary , as she passed , `` if that was an acquaintance of hers . '' 
Mary shook her head , and the widow , more puzzled than ever , took her leave . 
When school was out , Mr. Stuart , who seemed in no haste whatever , entered into a lively discussion with Mary concerning schools and books , adroitly managing to draw her out upon all the leading topics of the day . 
At last the conversation turned upon flowers ; and when Mary chanced to mention Mrs. Mason 's beautiful garden , he instantly expressed a great desire to see it , and finally offered to accompany Mary home , provided she had no objections . 
She could not , of course , say no , and the Widow Perkins , who , besides attending to `` Uncle Jim '' and `` Annt Dolly , '' still found time to watch the school-house , came very near letting her buttermilk biscuit burn to a cinder , when she saw the young man walking down the road with Mary . 
Whoever he was , he seemed to understand exactly how to find out whatever he wished to know ; and before tea was over , he had learned of Mary 's intention to attend the academy in Wilbraham , the next autumn . 
Mary glanced at Mrs. Mason , who replied , that `` she believed they did not care to take a pupil at South Hadley for a less period than a year ; and as Mary was entirely dependent upon herself , she could not at present afford that length of time . '' 
`` That does make a difference , '' returned Mr. Stuart ; `` but I hope she will not give up Mt. Holyoke entirely , as I should prefer it to Wilbraham . 
Tea being over , Mr. Stuart arose to go ; and Mary , as she accompanied him to the door , could not forbear asking how he liked Mrs. Mason 's garden , which he had forgotten even to look at ! 
Blushing deeply , he replied , `` I suppose Miss Howard has learned ere this , that there are in the world things fairer and more attractive than flowers , but I will look at them when I come again ; '' then politely bidding her good night , he walked away , leaving Mary and Mrs. Mason to wonder , -- the one what he came there for , and the other whether he would ever come again . 
Passing it to Mary , he winked at Mrs. Mason , saying , `` I kinder guess how all this writin ' works will end ; but hai n't there been a young chap to see the school ? '' 
`` Yes ; how did you know it , '' returned Mrs. Mason , while Mary blushed more deeply than she did when Billy 's letter was handed her . 
quickly asked Mary . 
asked Mary , who had not before heard of her sister 's arrival . 
`` The first I see of her she was cuttin ' through the streets on the dead run : but I must n't stay here , gabbin ' , so good night , Miss Mason , -- good night , Mary , hope you 've got good news in that are letter . '' 
The moment he was gone , Mary ran up to her room , to read her letter , from which we give the following extract : `` You must have forgotten George Moreland , or you would have mentioned him to me . 
Sometimes , Mary , I think that for a brother I am getting too selfish , and do not wish any one to like you except myself , but I surely need not feel so towards George , the best friend I have in Boston . 
After reading this letter , Mary sat for a long time , thinking of George Moreland , -- of the time when she first knew him , -- of all that William Bender had been to her since , -- and wondering , as girls sometimes will , which she liked the best . 
Billy , unquestionably , had the strongest claim to her love , but could he have known how much satisfaction she felt in thinking that George still remembered and felt interested in her , he would have had some reason for fearing , as he occasionally did , that she would never be to him aught save a sister . 
Theday following Mr. Stuart 's visit was Saturday , and as there was no school , Mary decided to call upon her sister , whom she had not seen for some months . 
A train of cars bound for Boston was just going out , and from one of the windows Mr. Stuart was looking , and waving his hand towards Mary , who bowed in token of recognition . 
Leaving Mrs. Mason at the store , Mary proceeded at once to Mrs. Campbell 's . 
She rang the door-bell a little timidly , for the last time she saw her sister , she had been treated with so much coldness , that she now felt some anxiety with regard to the reception she was likely to meet . 
she asked of the girl who answered her ring . 
I wo n't detain her long , '' said Mary , trying hard to shake off the tremor which always came upon her , when she found herself in Mrs. Campbell 's richly furnished house . 
Conducting Mary into the parlor , the girl departed with her message to Ella , who , together with the young lady whom Mr. Knight had styled a `` white-eyed pucker , '' but whose real name was Eliza Porter , was dressing in the chamber above . 
The door of the room was open , and from her position , Mary could hear distinctly every word which was uttered . 
`` I guess , then , I wo n't go down , at least not till I 'm dressed , '' answered Miss Porter ; and Ella , throwing on a dressing-gown , descended to the parlor , where she met her sister with the ends of her fingers , and a simple , `` Ah , Mary , how d'ye do ? 
`` Mr. Knight told me , '' said Mary . 
asked Mary . 
Then , by way of saying something more to Mary , she continued , `` Oh , you ought to know what an adventure I had yesterday . 
Mary replied , that she herself thought he had rather handsome eyes . 
`` I am quite sure he saw one yesterday , '' said Mary , relating the circumstance of Mr. Knight 's meeting him at the spot where Ella came so near getting a fall . 
Mary understood the drift of her sister 's questioning , and promptly replied , `` Yes , he went home with me , and staid to tea . '' 
said Ella , contemptuously , while Miss Porter , again turning to Mary , asked , `` Did you learn his name ? 
`` His name , '' returned Mary , `` is Stuart , and he lives in Boston , I believe . '' 
Both girls rushed to the window , but Mr. Stuart was not there ; and when they were reseated , Mary very gravely remarked , that he was probably ere this in Worcester , as she saw him in the eastern train . 
Mary knew nothing about it , and Ella , as if thinking aloud , continued , `` It must be that he got belated , and went from the graveyard , across the fields , to the depot ; -- but , oh horror ! '' 
Mary , I guess you 'll have to go , or rather , I guess you 'll have to excuse me , for I must run up and dress . 
Mary had flowers enough at home , and so , in spite of Ella 's manuvre , she went out at the front door , meeting `` Lizzie Upton , and the rest of the Boston girls , '' face to face . 
Rose 's lip curled scornfully , as she replied , `` Why , she met Mary Howard in the store , and I could n't drag her away . '' 
`` And who is Mary Howard ? '' 
Rose glanced at Ella , who said , `` Why , she 's the girl you met going out of the yard . '' 
Ella dared not tell Lizzie , that Mary was neither polished nor refined , so she answered , that `` she could not stay this afternoon , as Mrs. Mason , the lady with whom she lived , was in a hurry to go home . '' 
`` I 'm late , I know , '' said she , `` but I met Mary in the store , and I never know when to leave her . 
I tried to make her come with me , telling her that as you were her sister , 't was no matter if she wer n't invited ; but she said that Mrs. Mason had accepted an invitation to take tea with Mrs. Johnson , and she was going there too . '' 
`` Yes , Mary told me about him . 
He was in her school yesterday , and if I were going to describe George Moreland , I could not do it more accurately than she did , in described Mr. Stuart . 
`` No , '' said Ella pettishly , `` but seems to me Mary is dreadful anxious to have folks know that Mr. Stuart visited her school . '' 
`` No , she is n't , '' answered Jenny . 
`` I told her that I rode past her school-house yesterday , and should have called , had I not seen a big man 's head protruding above the window sill . 
Of course , I asked who he was , and she told me about him , and how he saved you from a broken neck . '' 
Running up stairs , and throwing herself upon the bed , she burst into tears , wishing herself dead , and saying she knew no one would care if she were , for every body liked Mary better than they did her . 
Ella was always jealous of any commendation bestowed upon Mary , seeming to consider it as so much taken from herself , and consequently , could not bear that Lizzie should even think well of her . 
In this way the cloud was gradually lifted from her face , and erelong she was laughing merrily at the idea , that a girl `` so wholly unattractive as Mary , should ever have made her jealous ! '' 
Thesummer was drawing to a close , and with it Mary 's school . 
She had succeeded in giving satisfaction to the entire district with the exception of Mrs. Bradley , who `` did n't know why Tim should be licked and thrashed round just because his folks was n't wuth quite so much as some others , '' this being , in her estimation , the only reason why the notorious Timothy was never much beloved by his teachers . 
Mr. Knight , with whom Mary was a great favorite , offered her the school for the coming winter , but she had decided upon attending school herself , and after modestly declining his offer , told him of her intention . 
Mary laughingly asked him how many bags of shoes he supposed she had stitched during the last two years . 
`` Not quite as many as that , '' answered Mary ; `` but still I have managed to earn my clothes , and thirty dollars besides ; and this , together with my school wages , will pay for one term , and part of another . '' 
He would gladly have helped Mary , but around his fireside were six children dependent upon him for food , clothing , and education , and he could only wish his young friend success in whatever she undertook . 
When Widow Perkins heard that Mary was going away to school , she forgot to put any yeast in the bread which she was making , and bidding Sally Ann `` watch it until it riz , '' she posted off to Mrs. Mason 's to inquire the particulars , reckoning up as she went along how much fourteen weeks ' wages would come to at nine shillings -LRB- a dollar and a half New England currency -RRB- per week . 
But with all her quizzing , and `` pumping , '' as Judith called it , she was unable to ascertain any thing of importance , and mentally styling Mrs. Mason , Mary , Judith and all , `` great gumpheads , '' she returned home , and relieved Sally Ann from her watch over unleavened bread . 
Both Mrs. Mason and Mary laughed heartily at the widow 's curiosity , though , as Mary said , `` It was no laughing matter where the money was to come from which she needed for her books and clothing . '' 
Mary warmly approved of this plan , and after a few extra flourishes in the shape of a courtesy , Sally started for home . 
`` It 's for ever and ever since I 've seen you , '' said she , as she gathered up the skirt of her blue riding-dress , and followed Mary into the house , `` but I 've been so bothered with those city girls . 
Instantly Mary thought of Mr. Stuart , and his suggestion . 
`` I wish I could , '' said she , `` but I ca n't . 
Going to the door , she and Mary saw coming down the road at a furious rate , the old hay cart , laden with the young people from Chicopee , who had been berrying in Sturbridge , and were now returning home in high glee . 
No sooner did Henry Lincoln get sight of Mary , than springing to his feet , and swinging his arm around his head , he screamed out , `` Three cheers for the school ma'am and her handsome lover , Billy ! 
Mary reddened at what she knew was intended as an insult , and when she heard her sister 's voice chiming in with Henry , she could not keep back her tears . 
Then as she saw the tears in Mary 's eyes , she added , `` Oh , I would n't care if they did teaze me about Billy Bender . 
`` It is n't that , '' said Mary , smiling in spite of herself , at Jenny 's frankness . 
Then Mrs. Mason very quietly remarked , that if Mary wished to go to Mount Holyoke she could do so . 
Mary looked up inquiringly , wondering what mine had opened so suddenly at her feet ; but she received no explanation until Jenny had bidden her good-bye , and gone . 
The glad tears which came to Mary 's eyes were a sufficient evidence that she did wish to , and the next day a letter was forwarded to Miss Lyon , who promptly replied , expressing her willingness to receive Mary as a pupil . 
Mary was going to Mount Holyoke , and what was more marvellous still , Mrs. Mason had bought her a black silk dress , which cost her a dollar a yard ! 
This having been a pauper was the thing of which Mary heard frequently , now that her prospects were getting brighter . 
The widow assumed a very resigned air , saying `` She never did meddle with other folks ' business , and she guessed she should n't begin by ` tendin ' to Mary 's , but 't was a miracle where all the money came from . '' 
A few more of the neighbors felt worried and troubled , but as no attention was paid to their remarks , they gradually ceased , and by the time Mary 's preparations were completed , curiosity and gossip seemed to have subsided altogether . 
She was quite a favorite in the neighborhood , and on the morning when she left home , there was many a kind good-bye , and word of love spoken to her by those who came to see her off . 
Mr. Knight carried her to the depot , where they found Sally Furbush , accompanied by Tasso , her constant attendant . 
She knew that Mary was to leave that morning , and had walked all that distance , for the sake of seeing her , and giving her a little parting advice . 
It was not quite time for the cars , and Mr. Knight , who was always in a hurry , said `` he guessed he would n't stay , '' so squeezing both of Mary 's hands , he bade her good-bye , telling her `` to be a good girl , and not get to running after the sparks . '' 
Scarcely was he gone , when Mary 's attention was attracted by the sound of many voices , and looking from the window , she saw a group of the city girls advancing towards the depot . 
Mary 's heart beat very rapidly , for she thought her sister was coming to bid her good-bye , but she was mistaken . 
Mary laughed , and then Ella , facing about , exclaimed , `` Why , Mary , you here ? 
Before Mary could reply , Sally Furbush arose , and passed her hand carefully over Ella 's head . 
`` I guess you 'd pass about as good an examination now , as some who are going , '' returned Rose , glancing contemptuonsly towards Mary , to whom Jenny was eagerly talking . 
This directed Henry 's attention that way , and simultaneously his own and Mary 's eyes met . 
With a peculiar expression of countenance , he stepped towards her , saying , `` Good morning , school ma'am . 
Had he addressed Mary civilly , she would have replied with her usual politeness , but as it was , she made no reply , and he turned to walk away . 
From one of the open windows a fair young face looked out , and a voice which thrilled Mary 's every nerve , it seemed so familiar , called out , `` Oh , Rosa , Jenny , all of you , I 'm so glad you are here ; I was afraid there would be some mistake , and I 'd have to go alone . '' 
whispered Jenny to Mary . 
But Mary hardly heard her . 
She was gazing admiringly at Ida 's animated face , and tracing in it a strong resemblance to the boyish features , which looked so mischievously out from the golden locket , which at that moment lay next to her heart . 
`` All aboard , '' shouted the shrill voice of the conductor , and Mary awoke from her reverie , and twining her arms around Sally Furbush 's neck , bade her good-bye . 
Mary next looked for Ella , but she stood at a distance , jesting lightly with Henry Lincoln , and evidently determined not to see her sister , who was hurrying towards her , when , `` All aboard '' was again shouted in her ear , while at the same moment , the conductor lifted her lightly upon the step where Rose and Jenny were standing . 
The train was already in motion , and as Mary did not care to peril her life or limbs for the sake of pleasing Rose , she followed her into the car , where there was a goodly number of unoccupied seats , notwithstanding Rose 's assertion to the contrary . 
As the train moved rapidly over the long , level meadow , and passed the Chicopee burying-ground , Mary looked out to catch a glimpse of the thorn-apple tree , which overshadowed the graves of her parents , and then , as she thought how cold and estranged was the only one left of all the home circle , she drew her veil over her face and burst into tears . 
asked Ida , who was riding backward and consequently directly opposite to Mary . 
`` Oh , that was Mary Howard , '' was Rose 's answer . 
`` Mary Howard ! '' 
repeated Ida , as if the name were one she had heard before , `` who is she , and what is she ? '' 
`` She does n't seem like a pauper , '' said Ida . 
`` I wish she would take off that veil . 
I want to see how she looks . '' 
By this time Mary had dried her tears , and when they reached the station at Warren , she removed her veil , disclosing to view a face , which instead of being `` rough and blowsy '' was smooth and fair almost as marble . 
But when she became fully awake , and knew why she was roused , she started up , and going towards Mary , said in her own peculiarly sweet and winning manner , `` Ida tells me you are Mrs. Mason 's adopted daughter , and Mrs. Mason is the dearest friend I ever had . 
Jenny immediately introduced her to Mary , as Miss Selden , whispering in her ear at the same time that she was George 's aunt ; then rising she gave her seat to Aunt Martha , taking another one for herself near Rose and Ida . 
Without seeming to be curious at all , Aunt Martha had a peculiar way of drawing people out to talk of themselves , and by the time they reached the station , where they left the cars for Mt. Holyoke , she had learned a good share of Mary 's early history , and felt quite as much pleased with the freshness and simplicity of her young friend , as Mary did with her polished and elegant manners . 
exclaimed Rose Lincoln , as from the windows of the crowded vehicle in which they had come from the cars , she first obtained a view of the not very handsome village of South Hadley . 
Rose was in the worst of humors , for by some mischance , Mary was on the same seat with herself , and consequently she was very much distressed , and crowded . 
She , however , felt a little afraid of Aunt Martha , who she saw was inclined to favor the object of her wrath , so she restrained her fault-finding spirit until she arrived at South Hadley , where every thing came in for a share of her displeasure . 
After some conversation between Miss Lyon and Aunt Martha , it was decided that Rose and Jenny should room together , as a matter of course , and that Mary should room with Ida . 
Ida was really an excellent scholar , and was prepared to enter the Senior class , while Mary aspired to nothing higher , than admission into the Junior . 
She was therefore greatly surprised , when Aunt Martha , after questioning her as to what she had studied , proposed that she should be examined for the Middle class . 
`` Oh , no , '' said Mary quickly , `` I should fail , and I would n't do that for the world . '' 
Before Mary could reply , Rose exclaimed , `` Shestudy Latin ! 
Aunt Martha silenced her with a peculiar look , while Mary answered , that for more than two years , she had been reading Latin under Mrs. Mason 's instruction . 
`` Yes , do try , '' said Ida and Jenny , in the same breath , and after a time , Mary rather reluctantly consented . 
Poor Jenny , too , who had stumbled over almost every thing , shared the same fate , while Mary , expecting nothing , and hoping nothing , burst into tears when told that she had acquitted herself creditably , in all the branches requisite for an admission into the Middle class . 
Among the four girls , Mary was the only cheerful one , and after a time she succeeded in comforting Ida , while Jenny , catching something of her spirit , began to laugh loudly , as she told a group of girls how many ludicrous blunders she made when they undertook to question her about Euclid , which she had never studied in her life ! 
Although perfectly healthy , Mary looked rather delicate , and it was for this reason , perhaps , that the sweeping and dusting of several rooms were assigned to her , as her portion of the labor . 
`` I 'm glad I took that lesson at the poor-house years ago , '' said she one day to Rose , who snappishly replied , `` I 'd shut up about the poor-house , or they 'll think you the pauper instead of Madam Howard . '' 
Ida Selden 's large black eyes rested reprovingly upon Rose , who nodded towards Mary , and forthwith Miss Downs departed with the information , which was not long in reaching Mary 's ears . 
`` Why , Mary , what 's the matter ? '' 
Without lifting her head , Mary replied , `` It 's foolish in me to cry , I know , but why need I always be reproached with having been a pauper . 
asked Ida , taking Mary 's hot hands between her own . 
In few words Mary related her history , omitting her acquaintance with George Moreland , and commencing at the night when her mother died . 
From the first she had been interested in Mary , and now winding her arms about her neck , and kissing away her tears , she promised to love her , and to be to her as true and faithful a friend as Jenny . 
This promise , which was never broken , was of great benefit to Mary , drawing to her side many of the best girls in school , who soon learned to love her for herself , and not because the wealthy Miss Selden seemed so fond of her . 
Neither Ida nor Rose were as happy in school , as Mary and Jenny . 
Ida , however , was happier than Rose , for she was fonder of study , and one day when particularly interested in her lessons , she said to Mary , that she believed she should be tolerably contented , were it not for the everlasting washing . 
Looking up a moment after , she saw that Mary had disappeared . 
But she soon returned , exclaiming , `` I 've fixed it . 
Ida disliked washing so much , that she raised no very strong objections to Mary 's plan , and then when she found how great a kindness had really been shown her , she tried hard to think of some way in which to repay it . 
At last , George Moreland , to whom she had written upon the subject , suggested something which met her views excatly . 
Both Ida and her aunt had told George about Mary , and without hinting that he knew her , he immediately commenced making minute inquiries concerning her , of Ida , who communicated them to Mary , wondering why she always blushed so deeply , and tried to change the conversation . 
In reply to the letter in which Ida had told him of Mary 's kindness , George wrote , `` You say Miss Howard is very fond of music , and that there is no teacher connected with the institution . 
Without waiting to read farther , Ida ran in quest of Mary , to whom she told what George had written . 
`` You do n't know , '' said she , `` how much George asks about you . 
`` Poor fellow , I pity him , '' said Mary ; and Ida continued , `` Perhaps it seems foolish in me to say so much about him , but if you only knew him , you would n't wonder . 
When Rose heard that Mary was taking music lessons , she exclaimed to a group of girls with whom she was talking , `` Well , I declare , beggars taking music lessons ! 
The next day Jenny chanced to go for a moment to Mary 's room . 
As she entered it , Mary looked up , saying , `` You are just the one I want to see . 
When Jenny had finished reading the passage referred to , she said , `` Oh , Mary , I did n't suppose you overheard Rose 's unkind remarks about that bonnet . '' 
`` But I did , '' answered Mary , `` and I am glad , too , for I had always supposed myself indebted to her instead of you . 
`` Mr. Worthington 's , '' answered Mary , and Jenny continued : `` Why , Henry is studying there . 
`` Suppose you write to him , '' said Mary , laughingly . 
`` I 'll do it , '' said Jenny , and seizing the pen , she thoughtlessly scribbled off a ludicrous account of her failure , and of the blunders she was constantly committing , while she spoke of Mary as the pattern for the whole school , both in scholarship and behavior . 
said she , wiping her gold pen upon her silk apron -LRB- for Jenny still retained some of the habits of her childhood -RRB- , `` I guess he 'll think I 'm crazy , but I hope he 'll answer it , any way . '' 
Mary hoped so too , and when at last Billy 's letter came , containing a neatly written note for Jenny , it was difficult telling which of the two girls was the happier . 
Soon after Mary went to Mount Holyoke , she had received a letter from Billy , in which he expressed his pleasure that she was at school , but added that the fact of her being there interfered greatly with his plan of educating her himself . 
Mary felt perplexed and troubled . 
Billy 's letters of late had been more like those of a lover than a brother , and she could not help guessing the nature of `` the plan formed in boyhood . '' 
She knew she should never love him except with a sister 's love , and though she could not tell him so , her next letter lacked the tone of affection with which she was accustomed to write , and was on the whole a rather formal affair . 
Mary usually cried over them , wishing more than once that Billy would transfer his affection from herself to Jenny , and it was for this reason , perhaps , that without stopping to consider the propriety of the matter , she first asked Jenny to write to him , and then encouraged her in answering his notes , which -LRB- as her own letters grew shorter -RRB- became gradually longer and longer , until at last his letters were addressed to Jenny , while the notes they contained were were directed to Mary ! 
Mrs. Lincoln 's mortification was undoubtedly greatly increased from the fact that the despised Mary had entered in advance of her daughters . 
`` Things are coming to a pretty pass , '' said she . 
Mr. Lincoln could not forbear asking her in a laughing way , `` if the schools which she attended were of a higher order than Mount Holyoke . '' 
`` You were no more to blame for working in the factory , than Mary is for having been a pauper ! '' 
Still , as Rose seemed discontented , complaining that so much exercise made her side and shoulder ache , and as Jenny did not wish to remain another year unless Mary did , he consented that they should leave school at the close of the term , on condition that they went somewhere else . 
Ida , who was expecting her father , aunt and cousin to be present at the anniversary , was so engrossed with her studies , that she did not observe how sad and low spirited Mary seemed . 
She had tasted of knowledge , and now thirsted for more ; but it could not be ; the funds were exhausted , and she must leave the school , never perhaps to return again . 
`` How much I shall miss my music , and how much I shall miss you , '' she said one day to Ida , who was giving her a lesson . 
`` She says she ca n't go , '' answered Mary . 
Ida little suspected that her last argument was the strongest objection to Mary 's going , for much as she wished to meet George again , she felt that she would not on any account go to his own home , lest he should think she came on purpose to see him . 
There were other reasons , too , why she did not wish to go . 
Henry and Rose Lincoln would both be in the city , and she knew that neither of them would scruple to do or say any thing which they thought would annoy her . 
In a day or two , Mary received two letters , one from Billy and one from Mrs. Mason , the latter of which contained money for the payment of her bills ; but on offering it to the Principal , how was she surprised to learn that her bills had not only been regularly paid and receipted , but that ample funds were provided for the defraying of her expenses during the coming year . 
A faint sickness stole over Mary , for she instantly thought of Billy Bender , and the obligations she would now be under to him for ever . 
Then it occurred to her how impossible it was that he should have earned so much in so short a time ; and as soon as she could trust her voice to speak , she asked who it was that had thus befriended her . 
Miss -- was not at liberty to tell , and with a secret suspicion of Aunt Martha , who had seemed much interested in her welfare , Mary returned to her room to read the other letter , which was still unopened . 
It was some time since Billy had written to her alone , and with more than her usual curiosity , she broke the seal ; but her head grew dizzy , and her spirits faint , as she read the passionate outpouring of a heart which had cherished her image for years , and which , though fearful of rejection , would still tell her how much she was beloved . 
Do you remember it , Mary ? 
Once , Mary , I believed my affection for you returned , but now you are changed , greatly changed . 
This letter produced a strange effect upon Mary . 
She thought how much she was indebted to one who had stood so faithfully by her when all the world was dark and dreary . 
She thought , too , of his kindness to the dead , and that appealed more strongly to her sympathy than aught else he had ever done for her . 
There was no one to advise her , and acting upon the impulse of the moment , she sat down and commenced a letter , the nature of which she did not understand herself , and which if sent , would have given a different coloring to the whole of her after life . 
She had written but one page , when the study bell rang , and she was obliged to put her letter by till the morrow . 
For several days she had not been well , and the excitement produced by Billy 's letter tended to increase her illness , so that on the following morning when she attempted to rise , she found herself seriously ill . 
During the hours in which she was alone that day , she had ample time for reflection , and before night she wrote another letter to Billy , in which she told him how impossible it was for her to be the wife of one whom she had always loved as an own , and dear brother . 
This letter caused Mary so much effort , and so many bitter tears , that for several days she continued worse , and at last gave up all hope of being present at the examination . 
A few days afterwards as Mary was lying alone , thinking of Billy , and wondering if she had done right in writing to him as she did , Jenny came rushing in wild with delight . 
Mary felt sure that any information of her which Rose might give would not be very complimentary , and she thought right ; for when Rose was questioned concerning `` Miss Howard , '' she at first affected her ignorance of such a person , and then when George explained himself more definitely , she said , `` Oh , thatgirl ! 
`` As nearly as I can judge of her , '' returned Rose , `` she is not remarkable for brilliant talents ; but , '' she added , as she met Ida 's eye , `` she has a certain way of showing off , and perhaps I am mistaken with regard to her . '' 
Very different from this was the description given of her by Ida , who now came to her cousin 's side , extolling Mary highly , and lamenting the illness which would prevent George from seeing her . 
Aunt Martha , also , spoke a word in Mary 's favor , at the same time endeavoring to stop the unkind remarks of Rose , whom she thoroughly disliked , and who she feared was becoming too much of a favorite with George . 
Rose was not only very handsome , but she also possessed a peculiar faculty of making herself agreeable whenever she chose , and in Boston she was quite a favorite with a certain class of young men . 
It was for George Moreland , however , that her prettiest and most coquettish airs were practised . 
He was the object which she would secure ; and when she heard Mary Howard so highly commended in his presence , she could not forbear expressing her contempt , fancying that he , with his high English notions , would feel just as she did , with regard to poverty and low origin . 
As for George , it was difficult telling whom he did prefer , though the last time Rose was in Boston , rumor had said that he was particularly attentive to her ; and Mrs. Lincoln , who was very sanguine , once hinted to Ida , the probability that a relationship would sooner or later exist between the two families . 
During the whole of George 's stay at Mount Holyoke , Rose managed to keep him at her side , entertaining him occasionally with unkind remarks concerning Mary , who , she said , was undoubtedly feigning her sickness , so as not to appear in her classes , where she knew she could do herself no credit ; `` but , '' said she , `` as soon as the examination is over , she 'll get well fast enough , and bother us with her company to Chicopee . '' 
In this Rose was mistaken , for when the exercises closed , Mary was still too ill to ride , and it was decided that she should remain a few days until Mrs. Mason could come for her . 
The room in which Mary lay , commanded a view of the yard and gateway ; and after Aunt Martha , Ida , and Jenny had left her , she arose , and stealing to the window , looked out upon the company as they departed . 
Once he turned around , but fearful of being herself observed , Mary drew back behind the window curtain , and thus lost a view of his face . 
He , however , caught a glimpse of her , and asked if that was the room in which Miss Howard was sick . 
Notwithstanding his apparent indifference , he was greatly disappointed at not seeing Mary . 
`` Yes , 't is , '' returned George , still holding her hand , and as Aunt Martha , who was jealously watching his movements from the window , just then called out to him `` to jump in , or he 'd be left , '' he put his face under Rose 's bonnet , and whispered , `` Mary Howard ! '' 
`` Kissed her , upon my word ! '' 
Mary , who was now nearly well , sprang out , and bounding up the steps , seized Judith 's hand with a grasp which told how glad she was to see her . 
`` Oh , no , not sick at all , '' returned Mary ; and then , as she saw the chair , with its cushions and pillows , she burst into a loud laugh , which finally ended in a hearty cry , when she thought how kind was every one to her . 
She had been at home but a few days when she was solicited to take charge of a small select school . 
Mrs. Bradley , who never on any occasion paid her school bill , was the loudest in her complaints , saying that , `` for all Tim never larnt a speck , and stood at the foot all summer long when Mary kept before , he 'd got so sassy there was no living with him , and she wanted him out of the way . '' 
Widow Perkins , instead of being sorry was glad , for if Mary did n't teach , there was no reason why Sally Ann should n't . 
Possibly Mr. Knight thought of the note , too , for he gave the widow no encouragement , and when on her way home she called for a moment at Mrs. Mason 's , she `` thanked her stars that Sally Ann was n't obliged to keep school for a livin ' , for down below where she came from , teachers war n't fust cut ! '' 
One morning about a week after Mary 's return , she announced her intention of visiting her mother 's grave . 
`` I am accustomed to so much exercise , '' said she , `` that I can easily walk three miles , and perhaps on my way home I shall get a ride . '' 
Mrs. Mason made no objection , and Mary was soon on her way . 
She was a rapid walker , and almost before she was aware of it , reached the village . 
As she came near Mrs. Campbell 's , the wish naturally arose that Ella should accompany her . 
`` Thank you , '' returned Mary , `` I was going to mother 's grave , and thought perhaps you would like to accompany me . '' 
asked Mary , and Ella replied , `` Why , did n't you know that Mrs. Mason , or the town , or somebody , had bought a monument , with mother 's and father 's , and Franky 's , and Allie 's name on it ? '' 
Mary waited for no more , but turned to leave , while Ella , who was anxious to inquire about Ida Selden , and who could afford to be gracious , now that neither Miss Porter , nor the city girls were there , called after her to stop and rest , when she came back . 
Mary promised to do so , and then hurrying on , soon reached the graveyard , where , as Ella had said , there stood by her parents ' graves a large handsome monument . 
There was something so kind and affectionate in his voice and manner , that Mary could not repress her tears , and snatching up her bonnet which she had thrown aside she hid her face in it and again wept . 
For a time , Mr. Stuart suffered her to weep , and then gently removed the gingham bonnet , and holding her hand between his , he tried to divert her mind by talking upon other topics , asking her how she had been employed during the year , and appearing greatly pleased , when told that she had been at Mount Holyoke . 
Observing , at length , that her eyes constantly rested upon the monument , he spoke of that , praising its beauty , and asking if it were her taste . 
`` No , '' said she , `` I never saw it until to-day , and did not even know it was here . '' 
Mary replied that she had one , a Mr. Bender , to which Mr. Stuart quickly rejoined , `` Is it William Bender ? 
Mary felt the earnest gaze of the large , dark eyes which were fixed upon her face , and coloring deeply , she replied that they came from England in the same vessel . 
`` I 'd rather you would not , '' answered Mary . 
returned Mr. Stuart , and again his large eyes rested on Mary 's face , with a curious expression . 
But she made no reply , and soon rising up , said it was time for her to go home . 
Mary replied that she did , and was about to speak of the relationship between them , when Mr. Stuart abruptly changed the conversation , and in a moment more they were at Mrs. Campbell 's door . 
Fond as Mr. Stuart was of music , he did not call for a repetition from her , but turning to Mary asked if she could play . 
Ella laughed aloud at the idea , and when Mary replied that she did play a little , she laughed still louder , saying , `` Why , sheca n't play , unless it 's ` Days of Absence , ' with one hand , or something of that kind . '' 
`` Allow me to be the judge , '' said Mr. Stuart , and leading Mary to the piano , he bade her play any thing she pleased . 
Ida had been a faithful teacher , and Mary a persevering pupil , so that whatever she played was played correctly and with good taste ; at least Mr. Stuart thought so , for he kept calling for piece after piece , until she laughingly told him her catalogue was nearly exhausted , and she 'd soon be obliged to resort to the scales ! 
Ella looked on in amazement , and when Mary had finished playing , demanded of her where she had learned so much , and who was her teacher ; adding that her fingeringwas wretched ; `` but then , '' said she , `` I suppose you ca n't help it , your fingers are so stiff ! '' 
For a moment Mr. Stuart regarded her with an expression which it seemed to Mary she had seen before , and then consulting his watch , said he must go , as it was nearly car time . 
After he was gone , Ella asked Mary endless questions as to where she met him , what he said , and if she told him they were sisters . 
`` How elegantly he was dressed , '' said she . 
`` Why , no , '' said Mary . 
`` I should , for I know he notices every thing , '' returned Ella ; and then leaning on her elbow so as to bring herself in range of the large mirror opposite , she continued , `` seems to me my curls are not arranged becomingly this morning . '' 
Either for mischief , or because she really thought so , Mary replied `` that they did not look as well as usual ; '' whereupon Ella grew red in the face , saying that `` she did n't think she looked so very badly . '' 
Upon finding herself so unceremoniously deserted , Mary tied on the despised gingham bonnet and started for home . 
She had reached the place where Ella the year before met with Mr. Stuart , when she saw a boy , whom she knew was living at the poor-house , coming down the hill as fast as a half blind old horse could bring him . 
Mary immediately sprang in , and by adroitly questioning Mike , whose intellect was not the brightest in the world , managed to ascertain that Mrs Parker had been much worse for several days , that Sal Furbush had turned nurse , faithfully attending her night and day , and occasionally sharing `` her vigils '' with a `` sleek , fancy-looking girl , who dressed up in meetin ' clothes every day , and who had first proposed sending for Mary . '' 
Mary readily guessed that the `` sleek , fancy-looking '' girl was Jenny , and on reaching the poor house she found her suspicions correct , for Jenny came out to meet her , followed by Sally , who exclaimed , `` Weep , oh daughter , and lament , for earth has got one woman less and Heaven one female more ! '' 
Passing into the house , Mary followed Jenny to the same room where once her baby sister had lain , and where now upon the same table lay all that was mortal of Mrs. Parker . 
Just then a neighbor , who seemed to be superintending affairs , came in , and Mary asked what she could do to assist them . 
`` Nothing until to-morrow , when if you please you can help make the shroud , '' answered the woman , and Jenny catching Mary around the neck , whispered , `` You 'll stay all night with me ; there 's no one at home but Rose , and we 'll have such a nice time . '' 
Mary thought of the little room up stairs where Alice had died , and felt a desire to sleep there once more , but upon inquiry she found that it was now occupied by Sally Furbush . 
`` You must come and see my little parlor , '' said she to Mary , and taking her hand she led her up to the room , which was greatly improved . 
But Mary did not hear , for her eyes were riveted upon another piece of furniture . 
At the foot of the bed stood Alice 's cradle , which Billy Bender had brought there on that afternoon now so well remembered by Mary . 
`` Oh , Sally , '' said she , `` how came this here ? '' 
Mary afterwards learned that often during the long winter nights , the sound of that cradle could be heard , occasionally drowned by Sally 's voice , which sometimes rose almost to a shriek , and then died away in a low , sad wail , as she sang a lullably to the `` Willie who lay sleeping on the prairie at the West . '' 
As there was now no reason why she should not do so , Mary accompanied Jenny home , where , as she had expected , she met with a cool reception from Rose , who merely nodded to her , and then resumed the book she was reading . 
After tea , Mary stepped for a moment into the yard , and then Rose asked Jenny what she intended doing with her `` genteel visitor . '' 
But in spite of this resolution , as midnight advanced Jenny found that Mary 's answers , even when Billy Bender was the topic , became more and more unsatisfactory , and finally ceased altogether . 
Concluding to let her sleep a few minutes , and then wake her up , Jenny turned on her pillow , and when her eyes again opened , the morning sun was shining through the half-closed shutters , and the breakfast bell was jingling in the lower hall . 
When Mary returned to the poor-house , she found a new arrival in the person of Mrs. Perkins ! 
Besides that , his orders were to bring Mary , and he had no idea of taking another as a substitute . 
asked Mary , after depositing her bonnet upon the table . 
`` Mary 's handy with the needle , for I larnt her myself . '' 
For a time Mary was undecided whether to return or not , for much as she desired an education , she could not help feeling delicate about receiving it from a stranger ; but Mrs. Mason , to whom all her thoughts and feelings were confided , advised her to return , and accordingly the first day of the term found her again at Mount Holyoke , where she was warmly welcomed by her teachers and companions . 
`` To be sure it may do well enough , '' said she , `` for a great burly creature like Mary Howard , but your daughter and mine are altogether too delicate and daintily bred to endure it . '' 
To this proposition , Mrs. Lincoln readily assented , and while Mary , from habitual exercise both indoors and out , was growing more and more healthful and vigorous , Rose Lincoln , who was really delicate , was drooping day by day , and growing paler and paler in the closely heated school-room , where a breath of fresh air rarely found entrance , as the `` accomplished governess '' could not endure it . 
Daily were her pupils lectured upon the necessity of shielding themselves from the winter winds , which were sure `` to impart such a rough , blowzy appearance to their complexion . '' 
Rose profited well by this advice , and hardly any thing could tempt her into the open air , unless it were absolutely necessary . 
All day long she half reclined upon a small sofa , which at her request was drawn close to the stove , and even then complaining of being chilly she sometimes sat with her shawl thrown over her shoulders . 
Not long after Jenny 's return to the city , she wrote to Mary an amusing account of her mother 's reason for removing her from Chicopee . 
Unlike this was the closing of Mary 's school days . 
Patiently and perseveringly , through the year she had studied , storing her mind with useful knowledge ; and when at last the annual examination came , not one in the senior class stood higher , or was graduated with more honor than herself . 
But it was not Mrs. Mason 's presence alone which incited Mary to do so well . 
Among the crowd of spectators she caught a glimpse of a face which twice before she had seen , once in the school-room at Rice Corner , and once in the graveyard at Chicopee . 
Turn which way she would , she felt , rather than saw , how intently Mr. Stuart watched her ; and when at last the exercises were over , and she with others arose to receive her Diploma , she involuntarily glanced in the direction where she knew he sat . 
For an instant their eyes met , and in the expression of his , she read an approval warmer than words could have expressed . 
That night Mary sat alone in her room , listening almost nervously to the sound of every footstep , and half starting up if it came near her door . 
But for certain reasons Mr. Stuart did not think proper to call , and while Mary was confidently expecting him , he was several miles on his way home . 
In a day or two Mary returned to Chicopee , but did not , like Ella , lay her books aside and consider her education finished . 
For several weeks nothing was allowed to interfere with this arrangement , but at the end of that time , the quiet of Mrs. Mason 's house was disturbed by the unexpected arrival of Aunt Martha and Ida , who came up to Chicopee for the purpose of inducing Mrs. Mason and Mary to spend the coming winter in Boston . 
At first Mrs. Mason hesitated , but every objection which either she or Mary raised was so easily put aside , that she finally consented , saying she would be ready to go about the middle of November . 
The day following their departure , Mrs. Perkins came over to inquire who `` them stuck up folks was , and if the youngest was n't some kin to the man that visited Mary 's school two years before ; '' saying `` they favored each other enough to be brother and sister . '' 
`` Why , so they do , '' returned Mary . 
asked Mrs. Mason and Mary in the same breath , but the widow said they must `` guess ; '' so after guessing every marriageable man or boy in town they gave it up , and were told that it was no more nor less than Mr. Parker ! 
repeated Mary . 
Mary , who accompanied her to the door , could not help asking whether Mr. Parker had finally bought her red heifer . 
The calico sunbonnet trembled , and the little gray eyes flashed indignantly as she said , `` That man never wanted my red heifer a bit more than he wanted me ! '' 
True to her promise , Mrs. Mason the next Thursday sent Judith over to the cottage with her `` spoons , dishes , little towels , and astorlamp , '' while she herself carried over the best and fairest flowers which had escaped the frosts of autumn . 
Mary was chosen to dress the bride , who , spite of her red hair , would have looked quite well , had her skirt been a trifle longer and wider . 
`` Comethis way , Mary . 
It 's right here next to mine , '' said Ida Selden , as on the evening of her friend 's arrival she led her up to a handsomely furnished apartment , which for many weeks had borne the title of `` Mary 's room . '' 
was Mary 's exclamation , as she surveyed the room in which every thing was arranged with such perfect taste . 
On the marble mantel there stood two costly vases , filled with rare flowers , among which Mary recognized her favorites . 
But ere she had time to speak of it , Ida opened a side door , disclosing to view a cosy little bedroom , with a large closet and bathing room adjoining . 
Mary was too happy to speak , and dropping into the easy chair she burst into tears . 
In a moment Ida , too , was seated in the same chair , and with her arm around Mary 's neck was wondering why she wept . 
Then as her own eyes chanced to fall upon the vases , she brought one of them to Mary , saying , `` See , these are for you , -- a present from one , who bade me present them with his compliments to the little girl who nursed him on board the Windermere , and who cried because he called her ugly ! '' 
Mary 's heart was almost audible in its beatings , and her cheeks took the hue of the cushions on which she reclined . 
Mary only heard a part of what Ida said . 
-- '' Was he then gone , and should she not see him after all ? 
Mary felt more disappointed than she was willing to acknowledge , and for a moment she half wished herself back in Chicopee , but soon recovering her equanimity , she ventured to ask how long George was to be gone . 
Our lady readers will pardon Mary if before meeting Mr. Selden she gave herself a slight inspection in the long mirror , which hung in her dressing room . 
Passing the brush several times through her glossy hair , and smothing down the folds of her neatly fitting merino , she concluded that she looked well enough for a traveller , and with slightly heightened color , followed Ida into the supper room , where she found assembled Mrs Mason , Aunt Martha , and Mr. Selden . 
Aunt Martha , too , was exceedingly polite , but after what Ida had told her , Mary could not help feeling somewhat embarrassed in her presence . 
This , however , gradually wore away , and before the evening was over she began to feel very much at home , and to converse with Aunt Martha as freely and familiarly as with Ida . 
She had lost in a measure that rotundity of person so offensive to her mother , and it seemed to Mary that there was a thoughtful expression on her face never seen there before , but in all other respects , she was the same affectionate , merry-hearted Jenny . 
After asking Mary if she was n't sorry George had gone , and if she expected to find Mr. Stuart , she said , `` I suppose you know Ella is here , and breaking every body 's heart , of course . 
`` I am afraid so too , '' said Ida , `` but now Mary has come perhaps he 'll divide his attentions between the two . '' 
If there was a person in the world whom Mary thoroughly detested , it was Henry Lincoln , and the idea of his trifling with her , made her eyes sparkle and flash so indignantly that Ida noticed it , and secretly thought that Henry Lincoln would for once find his match . 
After a time Mary turned to Jenny , saying , `` You have n't told me a word about , -- about William Bender . 
Jenny blushed deeply , and hastily replying that he was the last time she saw him , started up , whispering in Mary 's ear , `` Oh , I 've got so much to tell you , -- but I must go now . '' 
Ida understood her and replied , `` Very well ; but tell her that if she does n't see fit to notice my visitors , I certainly shall not be polite to hers . '' 
Accordingly after a long consultation with her mother , she concluded it best to call upon Mary . 
In the course of the afternoon , chancing to be near the front window , she saw Mr. Selden 's carriage drive away from his door , with Ida and her visitor . 
Meantime Ida and Mary were enjoying their ride about the city , until coming suddenly upon an organ-grinder and monkey , the spirited horses became frightened and ran , upsetting the carriage , and dragging it some distance . 
Fortunately Ida was only bruised , but Mary received a severe cut upon her head , which , with the fright , caused her to faint . 
A young man , who was passing down the street and saw the accident , immediately came to the rescue ; and when Mary awoke to consciousness , Billy Bender was supporting her , and gently pushing back from her face the thick braids of her long hair . 
At first she thought she was not much hurt , but when she attempted to lift her head she uttered a cry of pain , and laid it heavily back upon his bosom . 
`` Who is she ? 
-- Who is she ? '' 
Upon seeing Ida , his manner instantly changed , and after learning that she , with another young lady , had been upset , he ordered the crowd `` to stand back , '' at the same time forcing his way forward until he caught a sight of Mary 's face . 
By this time the horses were caught , another carriage procured , and Mary , still supported by Billy Bender , was carefully lifted into it , and borne back to Mr. Selden 's house , Henry Lincoln also accompanying her , and giving out numerous orders as to `` what ought to be done ! '' 
It was Henry Lincoln himself who had given Ella her information , without , however , telling the lady 's name ; and now , when she learnd that 't was Mary , she was too much surprised to answer , and Lizzie continued , `` I think you are laboring under a mistake . 
Ella replied that she never saw George Moreland , as he left Boston before she came ; and then as she did not seem at all anxious to know whether Mary was much injured or not , Lizzie soon took her leave . 
Long after she was gone , Ella sat alone in the parlor , wondering why Henry should tell her such a falsehood , and if he really thought Mary beautiful . 
Poor simple Ella , -- she was fast learning to live on Henry Lincoln 's smile , to believe each word that he said , to watch nervously for his coming and to weep if he stayed away . 
There were other young men in Boston , who , attracted by her pretty face , and the wealth of which she was reputed to be heiress , came fawningly around her , but with most strange infatuation , she turned from them all , caring only for Henry Lincoln . 
He , on the contrary , merely sought her society for the sake of passing away an idle hour , boasting among his male acquaintances of the influence he had acquired over her , by complimenting her curls and pretty face ! 
He knew that she was jealous of any praise or attention bestowed by him upon another , and had purposely told her what he did of Mary , exulting within himself as he saw the pain his words inflicted . 
When they reached Mr. Selden 's house , Henry announced his intention of calling also to inquire after Mary , whom he respected on her sister 's account ! 
Upon asking for Mary , she was taken immediately to her room , where she found her reclining upon a sofa , attired in a tasteful crimson morning gown , which gave a delicate tint to her cheeks . 
She was paler than usual , and her thick shining hair was combed up from her forehead in a manner highly becoming to her style of beauty . 
Until that day Ella had never heard her sister called handsome -- never even thought such a thing possible ; but now , as she looked upon her , she acknowledged to herself that Henry was more than half right , and she felt a pang of jealousy , -- a fear that Mary might prove her rival . 
Still she tried to be agreeable , telling her how fortunate she was in being at Mr. Selden 's , `` for , '' said she , `` I dare say some of our first people will notice you just because you are here ! '' 
There was a suppressed laugh behind the lace curtain where Ida stood , and when Mary began to defend Mr. Stuart , she came out , and with great apparent interest asked who he was , and where they had seen him . 
Afterwards Mary remembered the mischief which shone in Ida 's eyes as they described Mr. Stuart , but she thought nothing of it then . 
After asking Mary who paid for her music lessons , -- how many new dresses she 'd got , and who cut them , Ella started to go , carelessly saying as she left the room , that when Mary was able she should expect to see her at Mrs. Campbell 's . 
`` Because , '' returned Rose , `` Mary Howard will be there , and you know as well as I how awkward she 'll appear , -- never was in any kind of society in her life . '' 
Did n't you tell me there was some one continually going to inquire after Mary ? 
`` Come , you must go down , '' said Ida to Mary , when the message was delivered . 
`` By the way , '' she continued , as Mary said something about ` Billy , ' `` do n't call him Billy ; we know him as Mr.Bender , and Billy is so , -- so , -- '' `` So countrified , '' suggested Mary . 
With the exception of the time when she was hurt , Mary had not seen William for more than two years and a half , and now when she met him , she was so much embarrassed that she greeted him with a reserve , amounting almost to coldness . 
Frequently Mary 's eyes rested upon him , and she felt a thrill of pride when she saw how much his residence in Boston had improved him , and how handsome he really was . 
But any attempt to converse with him was rendered impossible by Henry Lincoln , who , toady as he was , thought proper to be exceedingly polite to Mary , now that the Seldens noticed her so much . 
Seating himself by her side with all the familiarity of an old friend , and laying his arm across the back of the sofa , so that to William it looked as if thrown around her shoulders , he commenced a tirade of nonsense as meaningless as it was disagreeable . 
thought he , beginning to feel piqued at her coldness . 
And then he redoubled his efforts at flattery , until Mary , quite disgusted , begged leave to change her seat , saying by way of apology that she was getting too warm . 
Involuntarily Mary blushed , and Henry , who was watching her , proposed that she resume her former seat , `` for , '' said he , `` you look quite as warm and red where you are . '' 
Mary did not even smile , for to her there was something revolting in the idea of being even teased about Henry , who was conceited enough to attribute her reserve to the awe which he fancied his `` elegant presence '' inspired ! 
At length William arose to go , and advancing towards Mary , he took her hand , saying in a low tone with marked emphasis on the word sister , `` I find my sister greatly changed and improved since I last saw her . '' 
`` And you too are changed , '' returned Mary , her eyes filling with tears , for William 's manner was not as of old . 
Mary replied in the affirmative , and the next moment he was gone . 
Half an hour after , Henry , too , departed , saying to Mary as he went out , `` You mus n't fail to be at Mrs. Russell 's , for I shall only go for the sake of seeing you . 
-- Truth , upon my honor , what little I have , '' he continued , as Mary 's eyes flashed forth her entire disbelief of what he said . 
Ida laughed aloud at the mystified picture which Mary 's face presented as the door closed upon Henry . 
`` You are too much of a novice to see through every thing , but you 'll learn in time that opinions frequently change with circumstances , '' said she . 
Why , there is n't a lady in Boston that begins to have the air distinguewhich Mary Howard has . 
Of course she 'll be all the go . 
Ai n't I glad Moreland is in New Orleans ; for with his notions , he would n't hesitate to marry her if he liked her , poor as she is . 
Now if she only had the chink , I 'd walk up to her quick . 
Such eyes too , as Mary 's got ! 
Well , any way I 'll have a good time flirting with her , just for the sake of seeing Ella wince and whimper , if nothing more . 
What a simpleton she is , compared wth Mary . 
The next day , owing to overexertion , Rose 's temples were throbbing with pain , and more than once , she half determined not to go ; but her passion for society was strong , and Mrs. Russell 's party had so long been anticipated and talked about that she felt she would not miss it for the world , and as she had confessed to Jenny , there was also a mean curiosity to see how Mary Howard would appear at a fashionable party . 
`` Saturate my handkerchief with cologne , and put the vinaigrette where I can reach it while you arrange my hair , '' said she to Sarah , who at the usual hour came up to dress her young mistress for the evening . 
Ella had dressed herself for the party with more than usual care , and as she smoothed down the folds of her delicate pink silk , and shook back her long glossy curls , she thought , `` He can not think Mary handsomer than I am to-night ; '' and now when the first remark he addressed to her was concerning her sister , she replied rather pettishly , `` I believe you are always thinking about Mary . '' 
How tight she sticks to a fellow , '' thought he , `` but I 'll get away from her yet . '' 
Just then Ida and Mary were announced . 
Ella watched her narrowly , whispering aside to Henry , how sorry she felt for poor Mary , she was so verdant , and really hoping she would n't do any thing very awkward , for ` twould mortify her to death ! 
`` but , look , '' she added , `` and see how many people Ida is introducing her to . '' 
asked Henry ; and Ella replied , `` I do n't know , -- it seems so funny to see Mary here , do n't it ? '' 
Later in the evening , William Bender came , and immediately Jenny began to talk to him of Mary , and the impression she was making . 
Placing her hand familiarly upon his arm , as though that were its natural resting place , she led him towards a group , of which Mary seemed the centre of attraction . 
Near her stood Henry Lincoln , bending so low as to threaten serious injury to his fashionable pants , and redoubling his flattering compliments , in proportion as Mary grew colder , and more reserved in her manner towards him . 
Silly and conceited as he was , he could not help noticing how differently she received William Bender from what she had himself . 
Meantime William Bender , having managed to drop Jenny from his arm , had asked Mary to accompany him to a small conservatory , which was separated from the reception rooms by a long , and brilliantly lighted gallery . 
As they stood together , admiring a rare exotic , William 's manner suddenly changed , and drawing Mary closer to his side , he said distinctly , though hurriedly , `` I notice , Mary , that you seem embarrassed in my presence , and I have , therefore , sought this opportunity to assure you that I shall not again distress you by a declaration of love , which , if returned , would now give me more pain than pleasure , for as I told you at Mr. Selden 's , I am changed in more respects than one . 
All this time Mary had not spoken , though the hand which William had taken in his trembled like an imprisoned bird ; but when he came to speak of loving another , she involuntarily raised his hand to her lips , exclaiming , `` It 's Jenny , it 's Jenny . '' 
`` You have guessed rightly , '' returned William , smiling at the earnestness of her manner . 
Mary thought of the old saying , `` Love begets love , '' but she said nothing , for just then Jenny herself joined them . 
Looking first at William , then at Mary , and finally passing her arm around the latter , she whispered , `` I know he 's told you , and I 'm glad , for somehow I could n't tell you myself . '' 
In her usual frank way , Jenny rattled on , telling Mary how happy she was , and how funny it seemed to be engaged , and how frightened she was when William asked her to marry him . '' 
One by one her old admirers had left her for the society of the `` pauper , '' as she secretly styled Mary , and more than once during the evening had she heard the `` beauty '' and `` grace '' of her rival extolled by those for whose opinion she cared the most ; and when , at one o'clock in the morning , she threw herself exhausted upon the sofa , she declared `` 't was the last party she 'd ever attend . '' 
His father 's fortune was threatened with ruin ; and as , on a morning several weeks subsequent to Mrs. Russell 's party , he sat in the office with his heels upon the window sill , and his arms folded over his head , he debated the all-important question , whether it were better to marry Ella Campbell , for the money which would save him from poverty , or to rouse himself to action for the sake of Mary Howard , whom he really fancied he loved ! 
Frequently since the party had he met her , each time becoming more and more convinced of her superiority over the other young ladies of his acquaintance . 
He was undoubtedly greatly assisted in this decision by the manner with which she was received by the fashionables of Boston , but aside from that , as far as he was capable of doing so , he liked her , and was now making up his mind whether to tell her so or not . 
`` Very foolish , judging from yourself , '' returned William ; and Henry replied , `` I hope you mean nothing personal , for I 'm bound to avenge my honor , and t ` would be a deuced scrape for you and me to fight about `` your sister , '' as you call her , for 't is she who has inspired me , or made a fool of me , one or the other . '' 
The expression of William 's face was a sufficient answer , and with something of his old insolence , Henry continued , `` Youneed n't feel jealous , for I tell you Mary Howard looks higher than you . 
Why , she 'd wear the crown of England , as a matter of course , any day . '' 
Ella chanced to be out , and as Henry was returning , he overtook Ida Selden and Mary Howard , who were taking their accustomed walk . 
Since her conversation with William a weight seemed lifted from Mary 's spirits , and she now was happier far than she ever remembered of having been before . 
She was a general favorite in Boston , where all of her acquaintances vied with each other in making her stay among them as agreeable as possible . 
Her facilities for improvement , too , were great , and what was better than all the rest , George Moreland was to return much sooner than he at first intended . 
While she was so happy herself , Mary could not find it in her heart to be uncourteous to Henry , and her manner towards him that morning was so kind and affable that it completely upset him ; and when he parted with her at Mr. Selden 's gate , his mind was quite made up to offer her his heart and hand . 
There was a bottle of Madeira standing upon the table , and as he announced his determination of `` doing any thing for the sake of Mary Howard , '' his eye fell upon his favorite beverage . 
A deep blush mounted to his brow , and a fierce struggle between his love for Mary and his love for the wine-cup ensued . 
The former conquered , and seizing the bottle he hurled it against the marble fire jamb , exclaiming , `` I 'll be a man , a sober man , and never shall the light of Mary 's eyes grow dim with tears wept for a drunken husband ! '' 
Henry was growing eloquent , and lest the inspiration should leave him , he sat down and wrote to Mary , on paper , what he could not tell her face to face . 
Had there been a lingering doubt of her acceptance , he would undoubtedly have wasted at least a dozen sheets of the tiny gilt-edged paper , but as it was , one would suffice , for shewould not scrutinize his handwriting , -- shewould not count the blots , or mark the omission of punctuating pauses . 
She would almost say yesbefore she read it . 
So the letter , which contained a sincere apology for his uncivil treatment of her in former years , and an ardent declaration of love for her now , was written , sealed , and directed , and then there was a gentle rap upon the door . 
Henry had resolved to keep his family ignorant of his intentions , but at the sight of Jenny he changed his mind , -- Jenny loved Mary , too . 
To be plain , how would you like to have me marry Mary Howard ? '' 
But answer me , why are you unwilling for me to marry Mary ? '' 
Jenny 's spirit was roused too , and looking her brother fully in his face , she unhesitatingly replied , `` You are not worthy of her ; neither would she have you . '' 
`` You know as well as I , '' answered Jenny , `` that one as pure and gentle as Mary Howard , should never be associated with you , who would trample upon a woman 's better nature and feelings , for the sake of gratifying your own wishes . 
Whenever it suits your purpose , you flatter and caress Ella Campbell , to whom your slightest wish is a law , and then when your mood changes , you treat her with neglect ; and think you , that knowing all this , Mary Howard would look favorably upon you , even if there were no stronger reason why she should refuse you ? '' 
`` You are my brother , and Mary my dearest friend , and when I say I would not see her wedded to you , 't is not because I love you less , but her the more . 
But oh , if her love would win you back to virtue , I would almost beg her , on my bended knees , not to turn away from you . '' 
`` And I tell you her love canwin me back , when nothing else in the kingdom will , '' said Henry , snatching up the note and hurrying away . 
That Mary would refuse her brother , she was certain , and she trembled for the effect that refusal would produce upon him . 
Looking up , he met Mary Howard 's large , dark eyes , fixed rather inquiringly upon him . 
She was accompanied by one of Mr. Selden 's servants , and he felt sure she was going to visit her sister . 
Of course , Ella would tell her all , and what must Mary think of one who could so soon repeat his vows of love to another ? 
In all the world there was not an individual for whose good opinion Henry Lincoln cared one half so much as for Mary Howard 's ; and the thought that he should now surely lose it maddened him . 
Fromone of the luxuriously furnished chambers of her father 's elegant mansion , Jenny Lincoln looked mournfully out upon the thick angry clouds , which , the live-long day , had obscured the winter sky . 
Jenny nodded , and Rose proceeded , `` I must , and willbe well before he comes , for ` twill never do to yield the field to that Howard girl , who they say is contriving every way to get him , -- coaxing round old Aunt Martha , and all that . 
Then she spoke of the miniature waterfall , which not far from their grandmother 's door , made `` fairylike music ; '' all the day long , and at last , as if soothed by the sound of that far-off falling water , Rose forgot her trouble , and sank into a sweet , refreshing slumber , in which she dreamed that the joyous summer-time had come , and that she , well and strong as Jenny had predicted , was the happy bride of George Moreland , who led her to a grassgrown grave , -- the grave of Mary Howard , who had died of consumption and been buried in Glenwood ! '' 
While Rose was sleeping , Jenny stole softly down the stairs , and throwing on her shawl and bonnet , went across the street , to confide her troubles with Mary Howard ; who , while she sympathized deeply with her young friend , was not surprised , for , from her slight acquaintance with Mrs. Lincoln , she could readily believe that one so ambitious and haughty , would seek for her daughter a wealthier alliance than a poor lawyer . 
Rightly guessing that her absence would not be noticed , Mary turned suddenly into a side street , leaving William and Jenny to themselves . 
`` I do n't believe your sister would marry him , '' continued Mrs. Campbell , who was becoming much attached to Mary . 
She was just lying back again upon her pillow , when there was a gentle rap at the door , and Mary Howard 's soft voice asked permission to come in . 
`` I 'll try , '' answered Mary . 
Mary obeyed , but started as she opened the drawer , for there , on the top , lay a small , old-fashioned miniature , of a fair young child , so nearly resembling Franky , that the tears instantly came to her eyes . 
asked Mrs. Campbell , and Mary replied , `` This picture , -- so much like brother Franky . 
For a long time Mary gazed at the sweet childish face , which , with its clustering curls , and soft brown eyes , looked to her so much like Franky . 
`` Ella Temple , '' was Mrs. Campbell 's reply , and Mary instantly exclaimed , `` Why , that was my mother 's name ! '' 
`` Your mother , Mary ! 
Every particle of color had left Mary 's face , and her eyes , now black as midnight , stared wildly at Mrs. Campbell . 
whispered Mrs. Campbell , grasping Mary 's hand ; `` and how it came about that I thought she was dead , -- my sister . '' 
Upon this point Mary could throw no light , but of all that she had heard from her mother she told , and then Mrs. Campbell , pointing to her writing desk , said , `` Bring it to me . 
Mary obeyed , and taking out a much soiled , blotted letter , Mrs. Campbell asked her to read it aloud . 
was Mary 's first exclamation , for her impressions of her grandfather were not very agreeable . 
Then , as the conviction came over her that Mary was indeed the child of her own sister , she wound her arms about her neck , and kissing her lips , murmured , `` My child , -- my Mary . 
`` I know now , '' said she , `` why , from the first , I felt so drawn towards Ella , and why her clear , large eyes , are so much like my own lost darling 's , and even you , Mary -- '' Here Mrs. Campbell paused , for proud as she now was of Mary , there had been a time when the haughty lady turned away from the sober , homely little child , who begged so piteously `` to go with Ella '' where there was room and to spare . 
Wiping the hot tears from her own eyes , Mary strove to comfort her aunt by telling her how affectionately her mother had always remembered her . 
`` And even on the night of her death , '' said she , `` she spoke of you , and bade me , if I ever found you , love you for her sake . '' 
Mary 's warm kiss upon her cheek , and the loving clasp of her arms around her aunt 's neck , was a sufficient answer . 
Mary asked at last ; and Mrs. Campbell replied , `` Nothing definite . 
I think the Fletchers were rather peculiar in their dispositions , and were probably jealous of our family , for the letter was long unanswered , and when at last Sarah 's uncle wrote , he said , that `` independent of old Temple ` said she had received a good education ; '' adding further , that she had married and gone west , and that he was intending soon to follow her . 
He neither gave the name of her husband , or the place to which they were going , and as all our subsequent letters were unanswered , I know not whether she is dead or alive ; but often when I think how alone I am , without a relative in the world , I have prayed and wept that she might come back ; for though I never knew her , -- never saw her that I remember , she was my mother 's child , and I should love her for that . '' 
`` Hush -- sh , '' said Mary softly ; and Mrs. Campbell , drawing Ella to her side , told her of the strange discovery she had made ; then beckoning Mary to approach , she laid a hand upon each of the young girls ' heads , and blessing them , called them `` her own dear children . '' 
One moment she was glad , and the next she was sorry , for she was so supremely selfish , that the fact of Mary 's being now in every respect her equal , gave her more pain than pleasure . 
Will Mary live here now ? '' 
`` Yes , always , '' answered Mrs. Campbell ; and `` No , never , '' thought Mary . 
Her sister 's manner chilled her to the heart . 
She thoroughly understood her , and felt sure they could not be happy together , for Ella was to live at home even after her marriage . 
There was also another , and stronger reason , why Mary should not remain with her aunt . 
She it was , too , who in sickness and health had cared for her with all a mother 's love , and Mary would not leave her now . 
All that afternoon the contrast between the two girls grew upon her so painfully , that she would almost gladly have exchanged her selfish , spoilt Ella , for the once despised and neglected orphan ; and when at evening Mary came to say `` Good night , '' she embraced her with a fervency which seemed to say she could not give her up . 
Scarcely had the door closed upon Mary , ere there was a violent bell ring , and Henry Lincoln was ushered into the parlor , where Ella , radiant with smiles , sat awaiting him . 
The young man had just met Mary at the gate , and as usual after seeing her was in the worst of humors . 
`` Well , I do think Mary looks well in flounces , '' returned Henry , `` but she is almost a head taller than you , and better proportioned every way . '' 
Mary do n't except at parties , and I heard a gentleman say that she displayed better taste than any young lady of his acquaintance . '' 
Ella was thoroughly angry , and amid a fresh shower of tears exclaimed , `` Mary , -- Mary , -- I 'm sick of the name . 
It 's nothing but Mary , -- Mary all day long with Mrs. Campbell , and now youmust thrust her in my face . 
If you think her so perfect , why do n't you marry her , instead of me ? '' 
`` Simply because she wo n't have me , '' returned Henry , and then not wishing to provoke Ella too far , he playfully threw his arm around her waist , adding `` But come , my little beauty , do n't let 's quarrel any more about her . 
So they sat down together upon the sofa , and after asking about Rose , and how long Jenny was to remain in Glenwood , Ella , chancing to think of the strange discovery that day made with regard to herself and Mary , mentioned it to Henry , who seemed much more excited about it than she had been . 
`` And Mary 's aunt too ? 
But such thoughts must not be expressed , and when Henry next spoke , he said very calmly , `` Well , I 'm glad on Mary 's account , for your aunt will undoubtedly share her fortune with her , '' and Henry 's eyes turned upon Ella with a deeper meaning than she could divine . 
It was so long since Ella had felt the need of money , that she had almost ceased to know its value , and besides this , she had no suspicion of Henry 's motive in questioning her ; so she carelessly replied that nothing had been said on the subject , though she presumed her aunt would make Mary heiress with herself , as she had recently taken a violent fancy to her . 
As if their thoughts were flowing in the same channel , Mrs. Campbell that evening was thinking of Mary , and trying to devise some means by which to atone for neglecting her so long . 
Suddenly a new idea occurred to her , upon which she determined immediately to act , and the next morning Mr. Worthington was sent for , to draw up a new will , in which Mary Howard was to share equally with her sister . 
`` Half of all I own is theirs by right , '' said she , `` and what I want is , that on their 21st birth-day they shall come into possession of the portion which ought to have been their mother 's , while at my death the remainder shall be equally divided between them . '' 
Now I 'd willingly marry Mary without a penny , but Ella , with only one quarter as much as I expected , and that not until she 's twenty-one , is a different matter entirely . 
The news that Mary was Mrs. Campbell 's niece spread rapidly , and among those who came to congratulate her , none was more sincere than William Bender . 
Mary was very dear to him , and whatever conduced to her happiness added also to his . 
Together with her he had heard the rumor of Mr. Lincoln 's downfall , and while he felt sorry for the family , he could not help hoping that it would bring Jenny nearer to him . 
Of this he told Mary , who hardly dared trust herself to reply , lest she should divulge a darling secret , which she had cherished ever since Mrs. Campbell had told her that , in little more than a year , she was to be the rightful owner of a sum of money much larger than she had ever dreamed it possible for her to possess . 
And now Mary was very happy in thinking how much good she could do . 
And still the world , knowing nothing of the hidden causes which made Mary 's laugh so merry and her manner so gay , said that `` the prospect of being an heiress had turned her head , just as it always did those who were suddenly elevated to wealth . '' 
It was in vain that Mary , who visited the house frequently , told her of many things which might detain him . 
And then she begged so imploringly of her sister to go to him , and ask him to come , that Mary , loth as she was to do so , finally complied . 
She found him in his office , and fortunately alone . 
He was looking very pale and haggard , the result of last night 's debauch , but Mary did not know of this . 
She only saw grief for his misfortune , and her voice and manner were far more cordial than usual as she bade him good afternoon . 
`` It is kind in you , Miss Howard , to come here , '' said he , nervously pressing the hand she offered . 
Wishing to end such conversation , Mary replied , `` I came here , Mr. Lincoln , at Ella 's request . 
Ever since your father 's failure she has waited anxiously for you -- '' She was prevented from saying more by Henry , who , with a feigned bitterness of manner , exclaimed , `` Ella need not feel troubled , for I am too honorable to insist upon her keeping an engagement , which I would to Heaven had never been made . 
`` You are mistaken , sir , '' answered Mary ; `` Ella does not wish to be free . 
With an air of desperation , Henry took his hat , and started with Mary for Mrs. Campbell 's . 
Then , with a cold adieu , he left her ; and when , half an hour afterwards , Mary entered the parlor , she found her sister lying upon the sofa , perfectly motionless , except when a tremor of anguish shook her slight frame . 
A few words explained all , and taking her head in her lap , Mary tried to soothe her . 
But Ella refused to be comforted ; and as she seemed to prefer being alone , Mary ere long left her , and bent her steps towards Mr. Lincoln 's dwelling , which presented a scene of strange confusion . 
Mary was just in time to hear this remark , and she modestly replied , that Mr. Lincoln 's creditors had generously presented him with all the silver , which was now at Mr. Selden 's . 
Mary turned away in disgust , but not until she heard the woman 's daughter whisper , `` Do n't , mother , -- that 's Miss Howard , -- Mrs. Campbell 's niece , '' to which the mother replied , `` Wall , who cares for that ? 
Passing through the hall , where several other women were examining and depreciating Mrs. Lincoln 's costly carpets , pronouncing them `` half cotton , '' & c. , Mary made her way up stairs , where in a chamber as yet untouched , she found Jenny , and with her William Bender . 
Many a time in his life for Mary 's sake had William wished that he was rich , but never had he felt so intense a longing for money , as he did when Jenny sat weeping at his side , and starting at every new sound which came up from the rabble below . 
`` Oh , Mary , Mary ! '' 
Mary knew that from bitter experience , and sitting down by her young friend , her tears flowed as freely as Jenny 's had often flowed for her , in the gray old woods near Chicopee poor-house . 
`` If they only knew how dear that is to me , or how dear it will be when -- '' She could not finish , but Mary knew what she would say . 
The piano belonged to Rose , whose name was engraved upon its front , and when she was dead , it would from that fact be doubly dear to the sister . 
Mary will go too , '' she continued ; and then on an `` aside '' to Mary , she added , `` I want you to cheer up Ella ; she sits alone in her room , without speaking or noticing me in any way . '' 
In reply to Jenny 's anxious inquiries as to what was the matter , Mary frankly told all , and then Jenny , folding her arms around the young girl , longed to tell her how unworthy was the object of such love . 
The next day was the auction , and it required the persuasion of both Mrs. Campbell and Mary to keep Jenny from going , she knew not whither herself , but any where , to be near and take one more look at the dear old furniture as it passed into the hands of strangers . 
About five o'clock Uncle Ezra came home , bringing a note from Ida , saying that the carriage would soon be round for Mary and Jenny , both of whom must surely come , as there was a pleasant surprise awaiting them . 
While Mary was reading this , Jenny was eagerly questioning Uncle Ezra with regard to the sale , which , he said , `` went off uncommon well , '' owing chiefly , he reckoned , `` to a tall , and mighty good-lookin ' chap , who kept bidding up and up , till he got 'em about where they should be . 
asked Mary , coming forward , and joining Jenny . 
`` Then the piano is gone , '' said Jenny sadly , while Mary asked how much it brought . 
`` Mr. Bender bought that little fiddleof your ` n , '' continued Uncle Ezra , with a peculiar wink , which brought the color to Jenny 's cheeks ; while Mary exclaimed , `` Oh , I 'm so glad you can have your guitar again . '' 
Here the conversation was interrupted by the arrival of the carriage , which came for the young ladies , who were soon on their way to Mr. Selden 's , Mary wondering what the surprise was , and Jenny hoping William would call in the evening . 
At the door they met Ida , who was unusually merry , -- almost too much so for the occasion , it seemed to Mary , as she glanced at Jenny 's pale , dispirited face . 
Aunt Martha , too , who chanced to cross the hall , shook Mary 's hand as warmly as if she had not seen her for a year , and then with her broad , white cap-strings flying back , she repaired to the kitchen to give orders concerning the supper . 
Mary did not notice it then , but she afterwards remembered , that Ida seemed quite anxious about her appearance , for following her to her room , she said , `` You look tired , Mary . 
Then as Mary was arranging her hair , she said , `` Just puff out this side a little , more ; -- there , that 's right . 
asked Mary , facing about as Ida directed . 
Come , Mary , you like to play . 
Mary was passionately fond of music , and , for the time she had taken lessons , played uncommonly well . 
Seating herself at the piano , she became oblivious to all else around her , and when a tall figure for a moment darkened the doorway , while Jenny uttered a suppressed exclamation of surprise , she paid no heed , nor did she become conscious of a third person 's presence until the group advanced towards her , Ida and Jenny leaning upon the piano , and the other , standing at her right , a little in the rear . 
Thinking , if she thought at all , that it was William Bender , Mary played on until the piece was finished , and then , observing that her companions had left the room , she turned and met the dark , handsome eyes , -- not of William Bender , but of one who , with a peculiar smile , offered her his hand , saying , `` I believe I need no introduction to Miss Howard , except a slight change in the name , which instead of being Stuartis Moreland ! '' 
Mary never knew what she said or did . 
She only remembered a dizzy sensation in her head , a strong arm passed round her , and a voice which fully aroused her as it called her `` Mary , '' and asked if she were faint . 
At the tea-table Mary sat opposite George , and every time she raised her eyes , she met his fixed upon her , with an expression so like that of the picture in the golden locket which she still wore , that she wondered she had not before recognized George Moreland in the Mr. Stuart who had so puzzled and mystified her . 
After supper she had an opportunity of seeing why George was so much beloved at home . 
During the evening William Bender called , and soon after Henry Lincoln also came in , frowning gloomily when he saw how near to each other were William and his sister , while he jealously watched them , still keeping an eye upon George and Mary , the latter of whom remembered her young sister , and treated him with unusual coldness . 
Rose and I are particular friends , and it afforded me a great deal of pleasure to purchase it for her -- but , '' he added , glancing at his watch , `` I must be excused now , as I promised to call upon my ward . '' 
`` He says she 's an heiress , and very beautiful , '' rejoined Ida , seating herself at the piano . 
Instantly catching at the words `` heiress '' and `` beautiful , '' Henry started up , asking `` if it would be against all the rules of propriety for him to call upon her thus early . '' 
`` I think it would , '' was George 's brief answer , while Mary 's eyes flashed scornfully upon the young man , who , rather crestfallen , announced himself ready to listen to Ida , whom he secretly styled `` an old maid , '' because since his first remembrance she had treated him with perfect indifference . 
That night before retiring the three girls sat down by the cheerful fire in Mary 's room to talk over the events of the day , when Mary suddenly asked Ida to tell her truly , if it were not George who had paid her bills at Mount Holyoke . 
`` I am sorry , '' answered Mary , laying her head upon the table . 
`` I do not like being so much indebted to any one , '' was Mary 's reply , and yet in her secret heart there was a strange feeling of pleasure in the idea that George had thus cared for her , for would he have done so , if -- She dared not finish that question even to herself , -- dared not ask if she hoped that George Moreland loved her one half as well as she began to think she had always loved him . 
`` Do n't then , '' returned Mary , and resuming her former position she fell into a deep reverie , from which she was at last aroused , by Jenny 's asking `` if she intended to sit up all night ? '' 
The news that George Moreland had returned , and bought Rose Lincoln 's piano , besides several other articles , spread rapidly , and the day following his arrival Mary and Ida were stopped in the street by a group of their companions , who were eager to know how George bore the news that his betrothed was so ill , and if it was not that which had brought him home so soon , and then the conversation turned upon Miss Herndon , the New Orleans lady who had that morning appeared in the street ; `` And do n't you think , '' said one of the girls , `` that Henry Lincoln was dancing attendance upon her ? 
If I were you , '' turning to Mary , `` I 'd caution my sister to be a little wary of him . 
Mary replied that the marriage was postponed indefinitely , whereupon the girls exchanged meaning glances and passed on . 
At first she refused to believe it , but when Mary and Jenny both assured her it was true , and when she herself had ocular demonstration of the fact , `` she gave way to one long fit of weeping ; and then , drying her eyes , declared that Henry Lincoln should see `` that she would not die for him . '' 
Still a minute observer could easily have seen that her gayety was feigned , for she had loved Henry Lincoln as sincerely as she was capable of loving , and not even George Moreland , who treated her with his old boyish familiarity , could make her for a moment forget one who now passed her coldly by , or listened passively while the sarcastic Evren Herndon likened her to a waxen image , fit only for a glass case ! 
Towardsthe last of April , Mrs. Mason and Mary returned to their old home in the country . 
On Ella 's account , Mrs. Campbell had decided to remain in the city during a part of the summer , and she labored hard to keep Mary also , offering as a last inducement to give Mrs. Mason a home too . 
But Mrs. Mason preferred her own house in Chicopee , and thither Mary accompanied her , promising , however , to spend the next winter with her aunt , who wept at parting with her more than she would probably have done had it been Ella . 
Mary had partially engaged to teach the school in Rice Corner , but George , assuming a kind of authority over her , declared she should not . 
Mary colored , for George 's manner of late had puzzled her , and Jerry had more than once whispered in her ear , `` I know George loves you , for he looks at you just as William does at me , only a little more so ! '' 
The next morning Mary was to leave , and as she stood in the parlor talking with Ida , George came in with a travelling satchel in his hand , and a shawl thrown carelessly over his arm . 
`` I shall stop at Chicopee on my way back , provided Mary is willing . '' 
Mary answered that she was always glad to see her friends , and as the carriage just then drove up , they started together for the depot . 
Mary never remembered of having had a more pleasant ride than that from Boston to Chicopee . 
George was a most agreeable companion , and with him at her side she seemed to discover new beauties in every object which they passed , and felt rather sorry when the winding river , and the blue waters of Pordunk Pond warned her that Chicopee Station was near at hand . 
`` I shall see you next week , '' said George , as he handed her from the cars , which the next moment rolled over the long meadow , and disappeared through the deep cut in the sandy hillside . 
`` Oh , how pleasant to be at home once more , and alone , '' said Mrs. Mason , but Mary did not reply . 
Her thoughts were elsewhere , and much as she liked being alone , the presence of a certain individual would not probably have marred her happiness to any great extent . 
But hewas coming soon , and with that in anticipation , she appeared cheerful and gay as usual . 
She had taken to dressmaking , she said , and thought maybe she could get some new ideas from Mary 's dresses , which she very coolly asked to see . 
With the utmost good humor , Mary opened her entire wardrobe to the inspection of the widow , who , having recently forsaken the Unitarian faith , and gone over to the new Methodist church in River street , turned conscientiously away from the gay party dresses , wondering how sensible people , to say nothing of Christian people , could find pleasure in such vanities ! 
`` But then , '' said she , `` I hear you 've joined the Episcopals , and that accounts for it , for they allow of most any thing , and in my opinion ai n't a whit better than the Catholics . '' 
asked Mary . 
It was in vain that Mary referred her to the Dictionary for a definition of the word `` Catholic . '' 
The appearance of a nicely roasted bit of veal quieted her fears on that subject , and as the effects of the strong green tea became apparent , she said , `` like enough she 'd been too hard on the Episcopals , for to tell the truth , she never felt so solemn in her life as she did the time she went to one of their meetins ' ; but , '' she added , `` I do object to them two gowns , and I ca n't help it ! '' 
At last the day was over , and with it the visit of the widow , who had gathered enough gossiping materials to last her until the Monday following , when the arrival in the neighborhood of George Moreland , threw her upon a fresh theme , causing her to wonder `` if ` twa n't Mary 's beau , and if he had n't been kinder courtin ' her ever since the time he visited her school . '' 
The interest which George had felt in Mary when a little child , was greatly increased when he visited her school in Rice Corner , and saw how much she was improved in her manners and appearance ; and it was then that he conceived the idea of educating her , determining to marry her if she proved to be all he hoped she would . 
That she did meet his expectations , was evident from the fact that his object in stopping at Chicopee , was to settle a question which she alone could decide . 
He had asked her to accompany him to the school-house , because it was there his resolution had been formed , and it was there he would make it known . 
Mary , too , had something which she wished to say to him . 
She would thank him for his kindness to her , and her parents ' memory ; but the moment she commenced talking upon the subject , George stopped her , and for the first time since they were children , placed his arm around her waist , and kissing her smooth white brow , said , `` Shall I tell you , Mary , how you can repay it ? '' 
She did not reply , and he continued , `` Give me a husband 's right to care for you , and I shall be repaid a thousand fold . '' 
Whatever Mary 's answer might have been , and indeed we are not sure that she answered at all , George was satisfied ; and when he told her how dear she was to him , how long he had loved her , and asked if he might not hope that he , too , had been remembered , the little golden locket which she placed in his hand was a sufficient reply . 
Without Ida 's aid he had heard of the relationship existing between Mrs. Campbell and Mary , but it made no difference with him . 
His mind had long been made up , and in taking Mary for his wife , he felt that he was receiving the best of Heaven 's blessings . 
The next morning George went back to Boston , promising to return in a week or two , when he should expect Mary to accompany him to Glenwood , as he wished to see Rose once more before she died . 
Again , in a sudden burst of passion , she would send her from the room , saying , `` she had heard preaching enough , for she was n't going to die , -- she would n't die any way . '' 
Quickly her fading cheek glowed , and her eye sparkled with something of its olden light ; but `` George , -- George , '' was all she had strength to say , and when Mary , who had accompanied him , approached her , she only knew that she was recognized by the pressure of the little blue-veined hand , which soon dropped heavily upon the counterpane , while the eyelids closed languidly , and with the words , `` He will not come , '' she again slept , but this time 't was the long , deep sleep , from which she would never awaken . 
Softly the kind-hearted neighbors passed up and down the narrow staircase , ministering first to the dead , and then turning aside to weep as they looked upon the bowed man , who with his head upon the window sill , still sat just as he did when they told him she was dead . 
At last , when it was dark without , and lights were burning upon the table , there was the sound of some one at the gate , and in a moment Henry stepped across the threshold , but started and turned pale when he saw his mother in violent hysterics upon the lounge , and Mary Howard bathing her head and trying to soothe her . 
The day following the burial , George and Mary returned to Chicopee , and as the next day was the one appointed for the sale of Mr. Lincoln 's farm and country house , he also accompanied them . 
He died alone , with none but his father to witness his wild ravings , in which he talked of his distant home , of Jenny and Rose , Mary Howard , and Ella , the last of whom he seemed now to love with a madness amounting almost to frenzy . 
Mary was to be married to the `` richest man in Boston , '' so the story ran , and what was better yet , many of the neighbors were to be invited . 
In this last capacity Ella had been requested to act , but the tears came quickly to her large mournful eyes , and turning away , she wondered how Mary could thus mock her grief ! 
Not even the excitement of her sister 's approaching marriage could awaken in her the least interest , and if it were mentioned in her presence she would weep , wondering what shehad done that Mary should be so much happier than herself , and Mrs. Campbell remembering the past , could but answer in her heart that it was just . 
It was in vain that Mary strove to convince her of her mistake . 
She only shook her head , hoping her sister would never know what it was to be wretched and desolate as she was . 
Mary could have told her of many weary days and sleepless nights , when there shone no star of hope in her dark sky , and when even her only sister turned from her in scorn ; but she would not , and wiping away the tears which Ella 's unkindness had called forth , she went back to her home , where busy preparations were making for her bridal . 
Two dressmakers were sewing for Mary . 
`` O , yes , I know , '' said Jenny , mischievously , and pulling from her pocket a bit of brown and white plaid silk , -- Mary 's travelling dress , -- she passed it to the widow , who straightway wondered at Mary 's taste in selecting `` that gingham-looking thing ! '' 
The rich , showy dresses of the city people also , came in for observation , and while the widow marvelled at their taste in wearing `` collars as big as capes , '' she guessed that Mary 'd feel flat in her checkered silk , when she came to see every body so dressed up . '' 
The widow , being in the rear , and rather short , slipped off her shoes , and mounted into a chair , for a better view , and when Mary appeared , she was very nearly guilty of an exclamation of surprise , for in place of the `` checkered silk '' was an elegant moire antique , and an expensive bertha of point lace , while the costly bridal veil , which swept the floor , and fell in soft folds on either side of her head , was confined to the heavy braids of her hair by diamond fastenings . 
A diamond necklace encircled her slender throat , and bracelets of the same shone upon her round white arms . 
The whole was the gift of George Moreland , who had claimed the privilege of selecting and presenting the bridal dress , and who felt a pardonable pride when he saw how well it became Mary 's graceful and rather queenly form . 
At her left stood her bridesmaids , Ida and Jenny , while at George 's right , were Mr. Elwood and William Bender , the latter of whom looked on calmly while the solemn words were spoken which gave the idol of his boyhood to another ; and if he felt a momentary pang when he saw how fondly the newly made husband bent over his young bride , it passed away as his eye fell upon Jenny , who was now dearer to him , if possible , than Mary had ever been . 
Among the first to congratulate `` Mrs. Moreland , '' was Sally Furbush , followed by Mrs. Perkins , who whispered to George that `` she kinder had a notion how ` twould end when she first saw him in the school-house ; but I 'm glad you 've got him , '' turning to Mary , `` for it must be easier livin ' in the city than keepin ' school . 
Soon after her engagement , Mary had asked that Sally should go with her to her city home . 
To this George willingly consented , and it was decided that she should remain with Mrs. Mason until the bridal party returned from the western tour they were intending to take . 
As Mary was leaving , she whispered in her ear , `` If your travels lead you near Willie 's grave , drop a tear on it for my sake . 
George had relatives in Chicago , and after spending a short time in that city , Mary , remembering Sally 's request , expressed a desire to visit the spot renowned as the burial place of `` Willie and Willie 's father . '' 
Ever ready to gratify her slightest wish , George consented , and towards the close of a mild autumnal day , they stopped at a small public house on the border of a vast prairie . 
The arrival of so distinguished looking people caused quite a commotion , and after duly inspecting Mary 's handsome travelling dress , and calculating its probable cost , the hostess departed to prepare the evening meal , which was soon forthcoming . 
she added , as Mary turned deathly white , while George passed his arm around her to keep her from falling . 
But Mary did not faint , and after smelling the camphor , she said , `` Go on , madam , and tell me more of Sarah Fletcher . '' 
suggested Mary . 
` Did she ever speak of her sisters ? '' 
asked Mary , and the woman replied , `` Before she got crazy , she did . 
The new moon was shining , and Mary , who came to her husband 's side , could plainly discern the buckeye tree and the two graves where `` Willie and Willie 's father '' had long been sleeping . 
The next morning before the sun was up , Mary stood by the mounds where often in years gone by , Sally Furbush had seen the moon go down , and the stars grow pale in the coming day , as she kept her tireless watch over her loved and lost . 
`` Willie was my cousin -- your cousin , '' said Mary , resting her foot upon the bit of board which stood at the head of the little graves . 
George understood her wishes , and when they left the place , a handsome marble slab marked the spot where the father and his infant son were buried . 
Bewildered , and unable to comprehend a word , Sally listened while Mary told her of the relationship between them ; but the mists which for years had shrouded her reason were too dense to be suddenly cleared away ; and when Mary wept , winding her arms around her neck and calling her `` Aunt ; '' and when the elegant Mrs. Campbell , scarcely less bewildered than Sally herself , came forward addressing her as `` sister , '' she turned aside to Mrs. Mason , asking in a whisper `` what had made them crazy . '' 
But when Mary spoke of little Willie 's grave , and the tree which overshadowed it , of the green prairie and cottage by the brook , once her western home , Sally listened , and at last one day , a week or two after her arrival in Boston , she suddenly clasped her hands closely over her temples , exclaiming , `` It 's come ! 
I remember now , -- the large garden , -- the cross old man , -- the dead mother , -- the rosy-cheeked Ella I loved so well -- '' `` That was my mother , -- my mother , '' interrupted Mary . 
`` He died , and you came in a carriage , but did n't cry , -- nobody cried but Mary . '' 
It was in vain that Mary tried to explain to her that Mrs. Campbell was her sister , -- once the baby Jane . 
There was none of her blood in Mrs. Campbell 's veins , `` or why , '' said she , `` did she leave us so long in obscurity , me and my niece , Mrs. George Moreland , Esq. ! '' 
This was the title which she always gave Mary when speaking of her , while to Ella , who occasionally spent a week in her sister 's pleasant home , she gave the name of `` little cipher , '' as expressing exactly her opinion of her . 
Sally saw he was in earnest , and at last yielded the point , telling Mary in confidence that `` she never saw any one in her life she feared as she did Esquire Moreland when he set his foot down ! '' 
And George did seem to have a wonderful influence over her , for a single look from him would quiet her when in her wildest moods . 
In spite of the desire she once expressed of finding her sister , Mrs. Campbell 's pride at first shrank from acknowledging a relationship between herself and Sally Furbush , but the fact that George Moreland brought her to his home , treating her in every respect as his equal , and always introducing her to his fashionable friends as his aunt , gradually reconciled her to the matter , and she herself became at last very attentive to her , frequently urging her to spend a part of the time with her . 
True to her promise , on Mary 's twenty-first birth-day , Mrs. Campbell made over to her one fourth of her property , and Mary , remembering her intentions towards William Bender , immediately offered him one half of it . 
Mary did not urge the matter , but many an article of furniture more costly than William was able to purchase found its way into the cottage , which with its overhanging vines , climbing roses , and profusion of flowers , seemed just the home for Jenny Lincoln . 
The spring following Mary 's removal to Boston , Mrs. Mason came down to the city to live with her adopted daughter , greatly to the delight of Aunt Martha , whose home was lonelier than it was wont to be , for George was gone , and Ida too had recently been married to Mr. Elwood , and removed to Lexington , Kentucky . 
Miss Grundy , who continues at the helm , has grown somewhat older and crosser ; while Uncle Peter labors industriously at his new fiddle , the gift of Mary , who is still remembered with much affection . 
