`` Irene , your father will be displeased if he sees you in that plight . '' 
`` But , Irene , your father is too proud to have you trudging along the road like any other beggar , with your books in one arm and a basket swinging on the other . 
Now , whether it be that this arises from a vague apprehension engendered by the evanescent nature of all sublunary things , or from the inability of earthly types to satisfy the divine ideal which the soul enshrines , I shall not here attempt to decide ; but those who examined Irene 's countenance were fully conscious of this complex emotion ; and strangers who passed her in the street felt intuitively that a noble , unsullied soul looked out at them from the deep , calm , thoughtful eyes . 
Miss Margaret muttered something inaudible in reply to her last remark , and Irene walked on to school . 
Her father 's residence was about a mile from the town , but the winding road rendered the walk somewhat longer ; and on one side of this road stood the small house occupied by Mrs. Aubrey . 
As Irene approached it she saw Electra Grey coming from the opposite direction , and at the cottage gate they met . 
Both paused ; Irene held out her hand cordially -- `` Good-morning . 
She hurried into the garden , and returning with a few delicate sprigs fastened one in her friend 's belt and the remainder in the ribbon on her hat . 
They shook hands , and Irene walked on . 
`` Something should be done , '' she repeated , looking down fixedly yet vacantly at the sandy road . 
Soon the brick walls of the academy rose grim and uninviting , and taking her place at the desk she applied herself to her books . 
When school was dismissed in the afternoon , instead of returning home as usual she walked down the principal street , entered Mr. Watson 's store , and put her books on the counter . 
It happened that the proprietor stood near the front door , and he came forward instantly to wait upon her . 
`` Ah , Miss Irene ! 
The merchant stared , and she added : `` I want some kid gauntlets , but Russell can get them for me . '' 
He laid down his pen , and taking a box of gloves from the shelves placed it on the counter before her . 
He had not noticed her particularly , and when she pushed back her hat and looked up at him he started slightly . 
He selected a delicate fawn-colored pair of gloves and laid them before her , while a faint smile passed over his face . 
She looked at him very intently . 
He met her gaze steadily , and for an instant his face brightened ; then she said , abruptly : `` Your mother 's eyes are worse ? '' 
Again she looked at him very earnestly , then stretched out her little hand . 
She gathered up her books , took the gloves , and went slowly homeward , and Russell returned to his desk with a light in his eyes which , for the remainder of the day , nothing could quench . 
As Irene ascended the long hill on which Mr. Huntingdon 's residence stood she saw her father 's buggy at the door , and as she approached the steps he came out , drawing on his gloves . 
`` You are late , Irene . 
A servant came forward to take her hat and satchel and inform her that her dinner had waited some time . 
Miss Margaret sat crotcheting at the front window of the dining-room , and Irene ate her dinner in silence . 
As she rose and approached her aunt the door swung open and a youth entered , apparently about Russell 's age , though really one year older . 
`` Irene , I am tired to death waiting for you . 
`` I did not promise to ride with you this evening , Hugh , '' answered his cousin , seating herself on the window-sill and running her fingers fightly over the bars of a beautiful cage , where her canary pecked playfully at the fair hand . 
Irene appeared at the door with a small silver porte-monnaiein her hand . 
She counted the contents , put it into her pocket , and , gathering up the folds of her habit , led the way to the front door . 
Hugh adjusted the reins , and laying one hand on his she sprang lightly to her saddle , then stroked her horse 's silky mane and said : `` Erebus can leave Green Mountain Boy so far behind that Charlie would find it no easy matter to count the plumes in my hat . 
The beautiful , jetty creature , as if conscious of her praise , tossed his head and sprang off in a canter , but wheeling round she called to the groom who stood watching them : `` Unchain Paragon ! '' 
Five minutes later the cousins were galloping on , with a superb greyhound following close at Erebus ' heels , and leaping up now and then in obedience to the motion of Irene 's hand . 
Just opposite the Fall , Irene checked her horse , and paused to admire the beauty of the scene ; but in another moment the quick tramp of hoofs fell on her ear , and Hugh 's young friends joined them . 
Green Mountain Boy was flecked with foam , and as Irene measured his perfections at one hasty glance she patted her favorite 's head and challenged Charlie for a trial of speed . 
Miss Grace , you and Irene can take care of yourselves for a few minutes . 
Erebus plunged violently at first , not being accustomed to lag behind Eclipse , but by much persuasion and frequent kind touches on his head , Irene managed to reconcile him to the temporary disgrace . 
`` Why , Irene ! 
The wind blew Irene 's veil over her eyes , she endeavored to put it back , and in the effort dropped her whip . 
Erebus shied , but the hand touched Irene 's as it inserted the silver handle in the slender fingers . 
You do n't know half his good qualities , '' returned Irene , a little quickly . 
-- '' began her cousin ; but here their companions bade them good-night , and , as if disinclined to continue the subject , Irene kept in advance till they reached home . 
Tea was waiting ; Miss Margaret and Hugh talked of various things ; Irene sat silent , balancing her spoon on the edge of her cup . 
Finally , tired of listening , she glided to the front door and seated herself on the steps . 
Paragon followed , and laid down at her feet . 
From her elevated position she could trace the winding of the streets by the long rows of lamps ; and now and then a faint hum rose on the breeze , as it swept up the hill and lost itself in the forest behind the house . 
Very soon Hugh came out , cigar in hand , and threw himself down beside her . 
Irene , do you know that I am not coming home next vacation ? 
He took her hand , but she withdrew her fingers . 
`` Irene , you belong to me , and you know it . '' 
She rose , and , retreating to the library , opened her books and began to study . 
The night passed very slowly ; she looked at the clock again and again . 
Finally the house became quiet , and at last the crush of wheels on the gravel-walk announced her father 's return . 
He came into the library for a cigar , and , without noticing her , drew his chair to the open window . 
She approached and put her hand on his shoulder . 
`` Irene ! 
He drew her tenderly to his knee , and passed his hand over her floating hair . 
He could seem very fascinating , but rarely deigned to be so ; and an intimate acquaintance was not necessary to teach people that he was proud , obstinate , and thoroughly selfish -- loving only Hugh , Irene , and himself . 
She was his only child ; her mother had died during her infancy , and on this beautiful idol he lavished all the tenderness of which his nature was capable . 
`` Irene , mark me . 
Whether the general rule of implicit obedience to parental injunction admitted of no exceptions , was a problem which Irene readily solved ; and on Saturday , as soon as her father and cousin had started to the plantation -LRB- twenty-five miles distant -RRB- , she put on her hat , and walked to town . 
Wholly absorbed in philanthropic schemes , she hurried along the sidewalk , ran up a flight of steps , and knocked at a door , on which was written in large gilt letters `` Dr. Arnold . '' 
His thick hair was grizzled , so was the heavy beard ; and shaggy gray eyebrows slowly unbent , as he took his visitor 's little hands and looked kindly down into her grave face . 
From her infancy he had petted and fondled her , and she stood as little in awe of him as of Paragon . 
His gray eyes twinkled promisingly , but he would not anticipate her . 
He went into the adjoining room , but soon returned , and resumed his seat on the sofa by her side . 
`` Irene , did you first apply to your father ? 
`` Irene , is it right to inveigle me into schemes with which you are ashamed to have your own father acquainted ? '' 
She looked so unembarrassed that for a moment he felt puzzled . 
He bent forward to watch the effect of his words , but if she really knew or suspected aught of the past , there was not the slightest intimation of it . 
Putting back her hair , she looked up and answered : `` That should increase your willingness to aid her in her misfortunes . '' 
Her splendid eyes were lifted toward him , and with some sudden impulse she touched her lips to the hand he had placed on her shoulder . 
`` Irene , shall I take you home in my buggy ? '' 
If that queer little untrained freethinker , Irene , is not pure and sinless , then there are neither seraphim nor cherubim in high Heaven ! 
In answer to Irene 's knock , Electra opened the cottage-door and ushered her into the small room which served as both kitchen and dining-room . 
She glanced round as Irene entered . 
`` Miss Irene , aunt . '' 
`` Sit down , Miss Irene ; how are you to-day ? '' 
She spoke rapidly , and for a moment seemed confused , then resumed her work . 
Irene watched her pale , delicate fingers , and the long auburn lashes drooping over the colorless cheeks , and , when she looked up for an instant , the visitor saw that the mild , meek brown eyes were sadly blurred . 
Irene knelt down before her , and , folding one of the hands in both hers , said eagerly : `` You sha n't suffer much longer ; these veils shall be taken off . 
`` Miss Irene , I can not tax your generosity so heavily ; I have no claim on your goodness . 
She trembled , and Irene saw tears stealing through the fingers . 
It was the first time she had ever alluded to him , and Irene saw that some painful memory linked itself with her father . 
There was silence for a few seconds ; then Mrs. Aubrey took the hands from her face and said : `` Irene , I will accept your generous offer . 
Oh , Irene ! 
A moment after , Irene threw a tiny envelope into Electra 's lap , and without another word glided out of the room . 
The orphan broke the seal , and as she opened a sheet of note paper a ten-dollar bill slipped out . 
Thinking of the group she had just left , Irene approached the gate and saw that Russell stood holding it open for her to pass . 
Looking up she stopped , for the expression of his face frightened and pained her . 
She took his hand ; it was cold , and the fingers were clenched . 
She shuddered at the glare in his black eyes . 
Her head drooped , and the glittering hair swept as a veil between them . 
Irene , I am desperate . 
She clasped her hands over her heart , and for the first time since her infancy tears rushed down her cheeks . 
`` Irene , the only comfort I have is that you are my friend . 
Oh , Irene , Irene ! 
He held her hands in a clasp so tight that it pained her , then suddenly dropped them and left her . 
Stealing her hand into his , the mother informed him of all that had occurred during Irene 's , visit , and concluded by laying the money in his palm . 
Justice and jealousy wrestled briefly ; she would be just , though every star fell from her sky , and with a quick , uncertain step she reached Russell , thrust Irene 's note into his fingers , and fled into solitude . 
From early childhood Irene had experienced a sensation of loneliness . 
Doubtless the loss of her mother enhanced this feeling , but the peculiarity of her mental organization would have necessitated it even under happier auspices . 
Her intellect was of the masculine order , acute and logical , rather deficient in the imaginative faculties , but keenly analytical . 
In richly-endowed female minds it not unfrequently happens that tedious , reflective processes are ignored ; but Irene was a patient rather than brilliant thinker , and with singular perseverance searched every nook and cranny , and sifted every phase of the subject presented for investigation . 
Her conclusions were never hasty , and consequently rarely unsound . 
From the time her babyfingers first grasped a primer she became a student ; dolls and toys such as constitute the happiness of most children had never possessed any attraction for her , and before she was eight years old she made the library her favorite resort . 
She would climb upon the moroeco-covered table where stood two globes , one celestial , the other terrestrial , and spend hours in deciphering the strange , heathenish figures twined among the stars . 
When weary of studying the index of the thermometer and barometer , and wondering why the quicksilver varied with sunshine and shower , she would throw herself down on the floor and fall asleep over the quaint pictures in an old English encyclop ædia , numbering thirty volumes . 
She haunted this room , and grew up among books centuries old . 
Thus until her tenth year there was no authority exerted over her , and the strong , reflective tendency of her mind rapidly developed itself . 
This was an abnormal condition , and indisputably an unfortunate training , and perhaps in after years it might have been better had she spent the season of careless , thoughtless childhood in childish sports and childhood 's wonted ways , for anxious inquiry and tedious investigations come soon enough with maturity . 
She was not an enthusiastic , impulsive nature , fitful in moodiness or ecstacy , inclined to passionate demonstrations of any kind ; but from infancy evinced a calm , equable temperament , uniformly generous and unselfish , but most thoroughly firm , nay obstinate , in any matter involving principle , or conflicting with her opinions of propriety . 
How she obtained these notions of right and wrong in minor details , was a subject of some mystery . 
They were not the result of education in the ordinary acceptation of that term , for they had never been instilled by anybody ; and like a wood-flower in some secluded spot , she lived , grew , and expanded her nature , without any influences to bias or color her views . 
In her promiscuous reading she was quite as apt to imbibe poisonous as healthy sentiments , and knowing that she had been blessed with few religious instructions , her father often wondered at the rigidness of her code for self-regulation . 
Irene had never been officially apprised of her destiny , but surmised very accurately the true state of the case . 
On her part there was a moderate share of cousinly affection ; on his , as much love and tenderness as his selfish nature was capable of feeling . 
They rarely quarrelled as most children do , for when -LRB- as frequently happened -RRB- he flew into a rage and tried to tyrannize , she scorned to retort in any way , and generally locked him out of the library . 
What she thought of her father 's intentions concerning herself , no one knew ; she never alluded to the subject , and if in a frolicsome mood Hugh broached it , she invariably cut the discussion short . 
When he went to college in a distant state , she felt infinitely relieved , and during his vacations secluded herself as much as possible . 
That she was beautiful , Irene of course knew quite as well as her father or any one else ; how could she avoid knowing it ? 
From her cradle she had been called `` Queen '' and `` Beauty ; '' all her acquaintances flattered her -- strangers commented on her loveliness ; she no more doubted it than the fact of her existence ; and often stopped before the large parlor mirrors and admired her own image , just as she would have examined and admired and enjoyed one of the elegant azaleas or pelargoniums in the greenhouse . 
I repeat it , she prized and enjoyed her loveliness , but she was not vain . 
She was no more spoiled by adulation than a meek and snowy camelia , or one of those immense golden-eyed pansies which astonish and delight visitors at the hot-houses on Long Island . 
God conferred marvellous beauty on her , and she was grateful for the gift -- but to the miserable weaknesses of vanity , she was a stranger . 
In the midst of books and flowers she was happy , and seemed to desire no companions but Erebus and Paragon . 
She rode every day when the weather permitted , and the jetty horse with its graceful young rider , followed by the slender , silky greyhound , was a familiar spectacle in the vicinity of her home . 
She knew every hill and valley within ten miles of the town ; could tell where the richest , rarest honeysuckles grew , where the yellow jasmine clambered in greatest profusion , and always found the earliest sprays of graybeard that powdered the forest . 
Often Mr. Huntingdon had ordered his horse , and gone out in the dusky twilight to search for her , fearing that some disaster had overtaken his darling ; and at such times met Erebus laden with her favorite flowers . 
These were the things she loved , and thus independent of society , yet conscious of her isolation , she grew up what nature intended her to be . 
Rather smaller and much thinner than Irene , with shining purplish black hair , large , sad , searching black eyes , from which there was no escape , a pale olive complexion , and full crimson lips that rarely smiled . 
The serene purity characteristic of Irene 's features was entirely wanting in this face , which would have seemed Jewish in its contour , but for the Grecian nose ; and the melancholy yet fascinating eyes haunted the beholder with their restless , wistful , far-reaching expression . 
In a character so exacting and passionate as hers there is necessarily much of jealousy , and thus it came to pass that , on the day of Irene 's visit to the cottage , the horrible suspicion took possession of her that he loved Irene better than herself . 
True , she was very young , but childish hearts feel as keenly as those of maturer years ; and Electra endured more agony during that day than in all of her past life . 
Had Irene been other than she was , in every respect , she would probably have hated her cordially ; as matters stood , she buried the suspicion deep in her own heart , and kept as much out of everybody 's way as possible . 
Days and weeks passed very wearily ; she busied herself with her text-books , and , when the lessons had been recited , drew all over the margins -- here a hand , there an entire arm , now and then a face , sad-eyed as Fate . 
Yet , while his lip rested on hers , Irene 's image rose before her , and he felt her shiver as she clung to him . 
He was her idol , and the bare suggestion of his loving another better chilled the blood in her veins . 
How ignorant he was of what passed in his cousin 's heart ; how little he suspected the intensity of her feelings . 
Constantly occupied during the day , he rarely thought of her away from home ; and , though always kind and considerate , he failed to understand her nature , or fully appreciate her affection for him . 
One afternoon Irene tapped lightly at the cottage-door , and entered the kitchen . 
Irene bent down , laid her two hands on the widow 's , and kissed her forehead . 
`` I am glad to hear your voice , Irene ; it has been a long time since you were here . '' 
`` Why not , Irene ? '' 
She lifted a large tortoise-colored cat from a small stool , and drew it near the hearth , just at the widow 's feet , seating herself , and removing her hat . 
`` That is more easily asked than answered ; you are a great heiress , Irene , and in all human probability will never be obliged to do anything . 
Oh , Irene ! 
When you are grown , society , too , will claim you ; you will be sought after and flattered ; and , Irene , under these circumstances -- with your remarkable beauty and wealth -- you will find it a difficult matter to avoid being spoiled . 
Irene , have I spoken too plainly ? '' 
`` Yes , Irene , because Christ founded a church , and I think every man and woman should belong to some religious organization . 
Sunshine flecked the bare boards under the window , flashed on the tin vessels ranged on the shelves , and lingered like a halo around Irene 's head . 
Her hair swept on the floor , and the cat played now and then with the golden rings so softly as not to attract notice , as though conscious the new toy was precious . 
The countenances of the group contrasted vividly : the sweet resignation of the blind sufferer , the marble purity of Irene 's face , and , just in the rear , Electra 's broad , pale brow and restless , troubled , midnight eyes . 
Presently Irene approached and began to examine the drawings , which were fragmentary , except one or two heads , and a sketch taken from the bank opposite the Falls . 
After some moments passed in looking over them , Irene addressed the quiet little figure . 
She left the room as quietly as she had entered , and found Paragon waiting for her at the door . 
He gambolled before her all the way -- now darting off , and as suddenly returning , to throw himself at her feet and wonder why she failed to caress him as usual . 
Other thoughts engaged her now ; she could see nothing but the form of the widow , and to-day she realized more than ever before how much she needed a mother . 
Low , sweet , gentle tones rarely fell upon her ear , and , except her father and Dr. Arnold , no one had ever attempted to caress her . 
She wearied of the fourteen years of isolation , and now on entering her fifteenth looked about her for at least one congenial spirit . 
She knew of none but Electra and Mrs. Aubrey who in any degree sympathized with her , and from these she was debarred by parental interdict . 
As the carriage approached the cottage-gate Irene directed the driver to stop . 
asked her aunt . 
`` Irene , are you deranged ! 
Andrew opened the door , and she was stepping out , when Electra appeared in the walk and immediately joined her . 
Miss Margaret was thoroughly aroused and indignant , but thought it best to submit for the time , and when Irene introduced her friend she took no notice of her whatever , except by drawing herself up in one corner and lowering her veil . 
The artist was standing before an easel which held Irene 's unfinished portrait , and as he turned to greet his visitors Electra saw that , though thin and pale , his face was one of rare beauty and benevolence . 
He shook hands with Irene , and looked inquiringly at her companion . 
When Irene rose , the orphan moved away and began to scrutinize the numerous pictures scattered about the room . 
A great joy filled her heart and illumined her face , and she waited for the words of encouragement that she felt assured would be spoken . 
The artist looked over her sketches slowly , carefully , and his eye went back to her brilliant countenance , as if to read there answers to ciphers which perplexed him . 
Evidently the face possessed far more attraction than the drawings , and he made her sit down beside him , and passed his hand over her head and temples , as a professed phrenologist might preparatory to rendering a chart . 
As he gave it to her , with some directions concerning the contents , she caught his hand to her lips , saying hastily : `` My guardian angel certainly brought you here to spend the winter . 
As she released his hand and left the studio he found two bright drops on his fingers , drops called forth by the most intense joy she had ever known . 
Having some commission from her aunt , she did not re-enter the carriage , and , after thanking Irene for her kindness , walked away . 
The meal passed , however , without any allusion to the subject , and , knowing what she had to expect , Irene immediately withdrew to the library to give her aunt an opportunity of unburdening her mind . 
The struggle must come some time , and she longed to have it over as soon as possible . 
She threw up the sash , seated herself on the broad cedar window-sill , and began to work out a sum in algebra . 
Nearly a half-hour passed ; the slamming of the dining-room door was like the first line of foam , curling and whitening the sea when the tempest sweeps forward ; her father stamped into the library , and the storm broke over her . 
`` Irene ! 
He did not ; rough hands seized her shoulders , jerked her from the window-sill , and shook her violently . 
Down fell book , slate , and pencil with a crash ; down swept the heavy hair , blinding her . 
She put it back , folded her hands behind her as if for support , and , looking up at him , said in a low , steady , yet grieved tone : `` I am very sorry you are angry with me , father . '' 
Hitherto she had stood quite still , but now an expression of anguish passed swiftly over her face , and she put out her hands appealingly -- `` Father ! 
She picked up her slate and book and left the room . 
Her hat hung on the rack in the hall , and , taking it down , she passed out through the rear piazza . 
Paragon leaped and whined at sight of her ; she unchained him , and , leaving the yard , turned into a narrow zigzag path , leading in an opposite direction from the front of the house . 
This was a favorite haunt of Irene 's ; she knew every nook of the forest and bend of the creek as well as the shy rabbits that flitted away at her approach ; and , on this occasion , she sought a rude seat , formed by the interlacing of two wild grape-vines . 
At her feet the channel ran deep and strong , and the rocky bed was distinctly seen ; but a few yards off the stream widened into a small lake , and there , on its dark , still surface masses of water-lilies spread out their broad , green , glossy leaves . 
Irene usually revelled amid this wealth of floral beauty , but now she could not enjoy it . 
She looked at her favorites , and understood what was meant by the words -- The first great grief of her life had fallen on her ; heretofore all had been so serene , so flowery , that she could not easily understand or endure the crushing weight on her heart . 
Reared in seclusion , the thought of being sent from her beautiful , luxurious home , and thrust among utter strangers , startled and filled her with dread . 
She was astonished , pained , and mortified by her father 's harsh language ; and , loving him very sincerely , she shrank from the long separation he threatened ; yet , amid all these complex emotions , she felt not the slightest regret for the course she had pursued ; under similar circumstances she would again act just as she had done . 
Then came the remembrance that she might meet her unfortunate friends no more . 
From amid this sombre drapery came the lonely hoot of an owl , and , with a strange sensation of desolation , Irene fell on her knees and committed herself to the care of the Great Shepherd . 
Darkness closed around , but as she prayed the silver rays of the evening star peered down through the trembling streamers of moss , and gleamed on the upturned face . 
She broke one of the lilies , and , fastening it among her curls , followed Paragon up the hill-side . 
The day of departure dawned rainy , gloomy , and the wind sobbed and wailed down the avenue as Irene stood at her window , looking out on the lawn where her life had been passed . 
Although Nellie was weeping bitterly at her side , she had not shed a tear ; but the face was full of grief , and her little hands were clasped tightly as the faithful nurse pressed them affectionately in her palms . 
Disengaging herself , Irene took an umbrella and went to the stable for a last look at Erebus . 
This tried her sorely , and her lip was unsteady when she left him and sought Paragon . 
The latter , little suspecting the true state of affairs , gambolled and whined as joyously as ever at her approach ; and , when the crowned head went down moaningly on his silky neck , he barked and frisked in recognition of the caress . 
The breakfast-bell summoned her away , and , a half-hour after , she saw the lofty columns of the old house fade from view , and knew that many months , perhaps yearn , must elapse before the ancestral trees of the long avenue would wave again over the head of their young mistress . 
The day before Electra would unhesitatingly have declined this proposition ; but only that morning , as she passed Russell 's door before breakfast , she saw him with Irene 's farewell note in his hand ; saw him press his lips hastily to the signature . 
To leave him was like inurning her heart and all the joy she had ever known ; and then , to crown her agony , a thousand Furies hissed `` Irene will come back , and loving her he will forget that you toil among strangers . '' 
I could owe my bread and clothes to you , but not to her . 
She has children , and I do not intend to live on her charity . 
Remember Irene ; who is nearer to you , she or your grandfather ? 
And the stage rolled swiftly on ; men laughed , talked , and smoked ; an October sun filled the sky with glory , and gilded the trees on the road-side ; flame-colored leaves flashed in the air as the wind tossed them before it ; the deep , continual thunder of the foaming falls rose soothingly from the river banks , and a wretched human thing pressed her bloodless face against the morocco lining of the coach , and stared down , mute and tearless , into the wide grave of her all -- As tall tyrannous weeds and rank unshorn grass close over and crush out slender , pure , odorous flowerets on a hill-side , so the defects of Irene 's character swiftly strengthened and developed in the new atmosphere in which she found herself . 
All the fostering stimulus of a hot-bed seemed applied to them , and her nobler impulses were in imminent danger of being entirely subdued . 
Diogenes Tenfelsdr öckh 's `` Crim Tartary Enclosure of a High Seminary '' is but the prototype of hundreds , scattered up and down through Christendom ; and the associations which surrounded Irene were well calculated to destroy the native purity and unselfishness of her nature . 
Anxious to shake off the loneliness which so heavily oppressed her , Irene at first mingled freely among her companions ; but she soon became disgusted with the conduct and opinions of the majority , and endeavored to find quiet in her own room . 
Maria Ashley , who shared the apartment , was the spoiled child of a Louisiana planter , and her views of life and duty were too utterly antagonistic to Irene 's to allow of any pleasure in each other 's society . 
To cheat the professors by ingenious stratagems , and to out-dress her companions , seemed the sum total of the girl 's aspirations ; and gradually , in lieu of the indifference she evinced toward her roommate , a positive hatred made itself apparent in numberless trifles . 
Feeling her own superiority , Irene held herself more and more aloof ; her self-complacency grew amazingly , the graceful figure took a haughty , unbending posture , and a coldly contemptuous smile throned itself on her lip . 
The inevitable consequence was , that she became a target for the school . 
Thus the months crept away , her father wrote rarely , and Miss Margaret 's letters contained no allusion to the family that had caused her banishment . 
Finally she wrote to Dr. Arnold , inquiring concerning Mrs. Aubrey , but no reply reached her . 
Louisa Young was about Irene 's age , very pretty , very gentle , and winning in her manners . 
She was the daughter of an affluent merchant , and was blessed in the possession of parents who strove to rear their children as Christian parents should . 
The mansion was almost palatial , and as Irene entered the splendidly-furnished parlors her own Southern home rose vividly before her . 
Probably he was unconscious of the steadiness of his gaze , but Irene became restless under his fixed , earnest eye , and perceiving her embarrassment , Mrs. Young said -- `` Harvey , where have you been ? 
`` Come into the sitting-room and help me entertain Irene , instead of going off to your stupid study ; do , Harvey . '' 
How old is she ? '' 
Is not she a beauty ? '' 
I thought you would admire Irene prodigiously ; and now you say ` yes ' just exactly as if I had asked you whether it was snowing out of doors . '' 
He stepped to the window and looked out , saying carelessly -- `` Go to your friend , and when you are at a loss for conversation , bring her to my study to see those sketches of Palmyra and Baalbec . '' 
Irene came very reluctantly , fearful of intruding ; but he rose , and placed a chair for her close to his own , assuring her that he was glad to see her there . 
The two leaned over it , and as Irene sat resting her cheek on her hand , the beauty of her face and figure was clearly revealed . 
Harvey remained silent , watching the changing expression of the visitor 's countenance ; and once he put out his hand to touch the hair floating over the back and arms of her chair . 
Irene lifted her eyes to his and said : `` Did you visit all these places ? 
He told her of his visit to the old world , of its mournful ruins , its decaying glories ; of the lessons he learned there ; the sad , but precious memories he brought back , and as he talked time passed unheeded -- she forgot her embarrassment , they were strangers no longer . 
She led the way back to the sitting-room , and a few moments afterward , to Irene 's great surprise , the student came in , and sitting down before the table , opened the Bible and read a chapter . 
It was the first time she had ever knelt around the family altar , and , as she rose , that sitting-room seemed suddenly converted into a temple of worship . 
Mutual `` good-nights '' were exchanged , and as Irene turned toward the young minister , he held out his hand . 
She gave him hers , and he pressed it gently , saying : `` I trust this is the first of many pleasant evenings which we shall spend together . '' 
He smiled , and she walked on . 
His mother looked up as the door closed behind her , and exclaimed : `` What a wonderfully beautiful face she has ! 
asked Irene , when they had reached their apartment . 
Harvey was absent at breakfast , and at dinner the chair opposite Irene 's was still vacant . 
Irene sat on a sofa near the window , and as she listened , visions of the South rose before her , till she realized -- `` That a sorrow 's crown of sorrow is remembering happier things . '' 
Somebody took a seat near her , and though the room was dim she knew the tall form and the touch of his hand . 
`` Good-evening , Miss Irene ; we have had a gloomy day . 
Just then a servant lighted the chandelier , and she saw that he looked graver than ever . 
As Irene listened to the solemn strains she found it difficult to control her feelings , and by degrees her head sank until it touched the arm of the sofa . 
He smiled encouragingly as he spoke , and without a moment 's thought she laid her delicate hand in his . 
`` He can be very stern , Irene , gentle as he looks , '' suggested Louisa . 
When Monday morning came , and she was obliged to return to school , Irene reluctantly bade farewell to the new friends . 
She knew that , in conformity to the unalterable regulation of Crim Tartary , she could only leave the institution once a month , and the prospect of this long interval between her visits was by no means cheering . 
Harvey assisted her into the carriage . 
Good-morning , Miss Irene ; do not forget that I am your brother so long as you stay in New York , or need one . '' 
Maria Ashley was a sore trial of patience , and occasionally , after a fruitless struggle to rise above the temptations presented almost hourly , Irene looked longingly toward Louisa 's fireside as one turns to the last source of support . 
Finally she took refuge in silence , and , except when compelled to do so , rarely commented upon anything that occurred . 
The days were always busy , and when the text-books were finished , she had recourse to those supplied by her new friends . 
At the close of the next month , instead of accompanying Louisa home , Irene was suffering with severe cold , and too much indisposed to quit the house . 
This was a grievous disappointment , but she bore it bravely and went on with her studies . 
What a dreary isolation in the midst of numbers of her own age . 
It was a thraldom that galled her ; and more than once she implored her father 's permission to return home . 
His replies were positive denials , and after a time she ceased to expect release , until the prescribed course should be ended . 
Irene felt anxious and distressed ; perhaps she was ill , something must have happened . 
As the day-pupils were dismissed she started back to her own room , heart-sick because of this second disappointment . 
`` After all , '' thought she , `` I may as well accustom myself to being alone . 
She put away the bonnet and cloak laid out in readiness for departure , and sat down to write to her aunt Margaret . 
A few minutes after , a servant knocked at the door and informed her that a gentleman wished to see her in the parlor . 
She stood close to him , looking gladly into his face , unconscious of the effect of her words . 
`` Miss Irene , the carriage is at the door . 
In much less time she joined him , equipped for the ride , and took her place beside him in the carriage . 
As they reached his father 's door , and he assisted her out , she saw him look at her very searchingly . 
She found her friend suffering with sore throat , and was startled at the appearance of her flushed cheeks . 
Harvey is a good friend of yours , Irene . '' 
Louisa had fallen asleep holding Irene 's hand , and her father cautiously felt the pulse and examined the countenance . 
The fever had abated , and , bending down , Harvey said softly : `` Ca n't you release your hand without waking her ? '' 
After the gentlemen withdrew , Mrs. Young and Irene watched the sleeper till midnight , when she awoke . 
The following morning found her much better , and Irene and the mother spent the day in her room . 
Come , Miss Irene , you shall join them again at tea . '' 
We are all prone to err ; and , Miss Irene , did it never occur to you that , though you may be overcome by the evil prompting , yet the struggle to resist strengthened you ? 
Miss Irene , you , too , must ` tread the wine-press alone . ' '' 
`` Miss Irene , yours is not a clinging , dependent disposition ; if I have rightly understood your character , you have never been accustomed to lean upon others . 
Monday morning arrived , and Irene returned to school with a heavy heart , fearing that she had wounded him ; but a few days after , Louisa brought her a book and brief note of kind words . 
`` I have come for you , Irene ; have obtained permission from Dr. -- for you to accompany us to the Academy of Design . 
When they joined the minister Irene fancied he received her coldly , and as they walked on he took no part in the conversation . 
Irene looked at her an instant , and held her breath ; she had seen only one other head which resembled that -- she knew the purplish waving hair . 
asked the minister , noting the change in her countenance . 
She made no answer , but leaned forward to catch a glimpse of the face . 
Just then the black figure moved slightly ; she saw the profile , the beautiful straight nose , the arched brow , the clear olive cheek ; and gliding up to her she exclaimed : `` Electra ! 
With a long , warm pressure of hands they parted , and Irene stood looking after the graceful figure till it glided out of sight . 
Soon after they reached home , Louisa was called into the parlor to see a young friend , and as Mrs. Young was absent , Irene found it rather lonely up stairs . 
She thought of a new volume of travels which she had noticed on the hall-table as they entered , and started down to get it . 
About half-way of the flight of steps she caught her foot in the carpeting where one of the rods chanced to be loose , and despite her efforts to grasp the railing fell to the floor of the hall , crushing one arm under her . 
She lay motionless , and he bent over her . 
`` Irene ! 
He raised her in his arms and placed her on the sofa in the sitting-room . 
The motion produced great pain , and she groaned and shut her eyes . 
A crystal vase containing some exquisite perfume stood on his mother 's work-table , and , pouring a portion of the contents in his palm , he bathed her forehead . 
Acute suffering distorted her features , and his face grew pallid as her own while he watched her . 
Taking her hand , he repeated : `` Irene , my darling ! 
She looked at him , and said with some difficulty : `` My ankle pains me very much , and I believe my arm is broken . 
He kissed her , then turned away and despatched a servant for a physician . 
Irene again requested to be taken to the school , fearing that she would cause too much trouble during her long confinement to the house . 
Mr. Young had gone to Boston the day before , and , turning to her son , she said -- `` Harvey , as your father is away , you must take Irene up stairs ; I am not strong enough . 
Be careful that you do not hurt her . '' 
Stupefied by the opiate , Irene took little notice of what passed , except when roused by the pain consequent upon dressing the ankle . 
Several days after the occurrence of the accident Irene turned toward the minister , who stood talking to his mother . 
An hour later , Irene 's listening ear detected the opening and closing of the hall-door . 
She folded her arms around the graceful young form and sobbed aloud , while Irene found it difficult to repress her own tears of sympathy and joy that her friend had found such relatives . 
Until you know them all as well as I do , you can not properly appreciate your good fortune , '' said Irene , raising herself on her elbow . 
Oh , Irene ! 
Irene , your father hated her , and of course you know it ; but do you know why ? '' 
Oh , Irene ! 
Irene had put her hand over her eyes , and a fearful panorama of coming years rolled before her in that brief moment . 
She saw with miserable distinctness the parallelism between Mrs. Aubrey 's father and her own , and , sick at heart , she moaned , contemplating her lot . 
A feeling of remorseful compassion touched the orphan as she heard the smothered sound , and , resuming her seat , she said gently : `` Do not be distressed , Irene ; ` let the dead past bury its dead ; ' it is all over now , aud no more harm can come of it . 
Irene knew too well that it was not over ; that it was but the beginning of harm to her ; but she repressed her emotion , and changed the subject by inquiring how Electra progressed with her painting . 
I shall succeed , Irene ! 
Irene , I must go home now , for they will wonder what has become of me . 
While they talked over the tea-table of the newly-found , Harvey went slowly up stairs and knocked at Irene 's door . 
Irene lay with her fingers over her eyes , and he said gently -- `` You see that I am wiser than you , Irene . 
She turned her face to the wall , and answered -- `` Oh ! 
`` Irene , why do you distrust me ? '' 
He opened the `` Rambler , '' of which she was particularly fond , and began to read . 
For a while she listened , and in her interest forgot her forebodings , but after a time the long silky lashes swept her cheeks , and she slept . 
The minister laid down the volume and watched the pure girlish face ; noted all its witching loveliness , and thought of the homage which it would win her in coming years . 
A few more fleeting months , and she would reign the undisputed queen of society . 
Wealth , intellect , manly beauty , all would bow before her ; and she was a woman ; would doubtless love and marry , like the majority of women . 
He set this fact before him and looked it in the face , but it would not answer ; he could not realize that she would ever be other than the trusting , noble-hearted , beautiful child which she was to him . 
He knew as he sat watching her slumber that he loved her above everything on earth ; that she wielded a power none had ever possessed before -- that his heart was indissolubly linked with her . 
He had studied Irene 's countenance too well not to know that a shadow rested on it now ; and it grieved and perplexed him that she should conceal this trouble from him . 
As he sat looking down at her , a mighty barrier rose between them . 
Of course , he must leave her ; hundreds of miles would intervene ; his memory would fade from her mind , and for him it only remained to bury her image in the prairies of his new home . 
The gas-light flashed on Irene 's hair as it hung over the side of the sofa ; he stooped , and pressed his lips to the floating curls and went down to the library , smiling grimly at his own folly . 
Irene also spoke of it as a settled matter . '' 
If Irene had found the restraint of boarding-school irksome , the separation from Russell was well nigh intolerable to Electra . 
Irene would have gone down among the mortar and bricks , measuring the foundations , but Electra gazed upon the exquisite acanthus wreathings of the ornate capitals , the glowing frescoes of the mighty nave , and here was content to rest . 
Irene sat in an easy chair by the open window , and the minister took a seat near her . 
As he spoke he laid a bouquet of choice flowers in her lap . 
She bent over them with eager delight , and held out one hand , saying : `` Oh , thank you ; how very kind you are . 
`` Irene , the man or woman who is impervious to the subtle , spiritualizing influence of flowers , may feel assured that there is something lamentably amiss in either his or her organization or habits of life . 
He paused , and busied himself in cutting the leaves of a new book , while Irene looked into his calm , noble face , pondering his words ; then her eyes went back to the bouquet , and his dwelt once more upon her . 
`` Irene , you look sober to-day ; come , cheer up . 
She dropped her flowers , and leaned forward . 
He saw the great sorrow written in her countenance , the quick flutter of her lip , the large drops that dimmed the violet eyes and gathered on the long , golden lashes , and far sweeter than Eolian harps was the broken voice : `` What shall I do without you ? 
She leaned her forehead on her hands , and a tear slid down and rested on her chin . 
The sun was setting , and the crimson light flooding the room bathed her with glory , spreading a halo around her . 
He gently removed the hands , and holding them in his said , in the measured , low tone so indicative of suppressed emotion : `` Irene , my friend , you attach too much importance to the aid which I might render you . 
Irene , I want you to wield the vast influence your Maker has given you nobly and for His glory . 
`` Then rest assured that I always shall ; and , Irene , when sorrows come upon you , for come they must to all , do not forget that you have at least one firm , faithful friend , waiting and anxious to aid you by every means in his power . '' 
Disengaging her fingers , which still clasped his tightly , he moved his chair backward and took a small blank book from his pocket , saying : `` You once asked me to give you a catalogue of those works which I thought it advisable for you to study , before you plunged into miscellaneous reading . 
Irene , remember : `` Ca n't you stay longer and talk to me ? '' 
said Irene , as he gave the blank book to her and rose . 
He glanced at his watch , smiled pleasantly , and left her . 
Harvey was engaged in the library packing his books , and Irene saw him no more till after tea . 
Then he came up with his mother , and kindly inquired concerning her arm . 
He saw that she shared the distress of the family , and , glancing over his shoulder at his mother , he said , laughingly : `` She looks too doleful to be left here alone all the evening . 
Ca n't we contrive to take her down stairs to the sitting-room ? 
`` Let her decide it herself . 
Irene , would you like for me to read and pray with you before I say good-by ? '' 
Irene was deeply moved , and when she essayed to thank him , found it impossible to pronounce her words . 
Tears were gliding down her cheeks ; he put back the hair , and taking the face softly in his palms , looked long and earnestly at its fascinating beauty . 
`` Good-by , Irene . 
A cloud of sadness settled on the household after his departure , and scarcely less than Louisa 's was Irene 's silent grief . 
`` Oh , nonsense , Irene . 
The change was eminently beneficial , and before they reached Canada Irene seemed perfectly restored . 
Irene and Louisa stood by the window looking out into the street , when a happy , ringing voice exclaimed : `` Here you are , at last , Irie ! 
She turned to meet her cousin and held out her hand . 
He threw his arm round her shoulder , drew down the shielding hands , and kissed her twice . 
He bowed , and shook hands with the stranger , then seized his cousin 's fingers and fixed his fine eyes affectionately upon her . 
Mr. Huntingdon 's entrance diverted the conversation , and Irene was glad to escape to her own room . 
From that time the cousins were thrown constantly together ; wherever they went Hugh took charge of Irene , while Mr. Huntingdon gave his attention to Louisa . 
Hugh was gay , careless ; Irene equable , but reserved . 
Mr. Huntingdon prepared to return South and Hugh to sail for Europe , while Irene remained at the hotel until the morning of her cousin 's departure . 
A private parlor adjoined the room she occupied , and here he came to say farewell . 
She knew that he had already had a long conversation with her father , and as he threw himself on the sofa and seized one of her hands , she instinctively shrank from him . 
`` Irene , here is my miniature . 
He leaned down to kiss her , but she turned her face hastily away and answered , resolutely : `` No , I ca n't love you other than as my cousin ; I would not , if I could . 
Mr. Huntingdon had evidently prepared him for something of this kind on her part , and , though his face flushed angrily , he took no notice of the remonstrance . 
He tried to force the flashing jewel on her slender finger , but she resisted , and rose , struggling to withdraw her hand . 
She suffered him to take both her hands and kiss her tenderly , for her father stood there and she could not refuse ; but the touch of his lips burned long after he had gone . 
She put on her bonnet , and , when her father returned from the steamer , they entered the carriage which was to convey her to the dreary , dreaded school . 
As they rolled along Broadway Mr. Huntingdon coolly took her hand and placed Hugh 's ring upon it , saying , authoritatively : `` Hugh told me you refused to accept his parting gift , and seemed much hurt about it . 
Now , Irene , let me hear no more about it . 
I wish you would learn that it is a child 's duty to obey her parent . 
She felt that this was not the hour for resistance , and wisely forbore ; but he saw rebellion written in the calm , fixed eye , and read it in the curved lines of the full upper lip . 
She had entreated him to take her home , and , only the night before , renewed her pleadings . 
But his refusal was positive , and now she went back to the hated school without a visible token of regret . 
She saw her trunks consigned to the porter , listened to a brief conversation between Dr. -- and her father , and , after a hasty embrace and half-dozen words , watched the tall , soldierly form re-enter the carriage . 
Then she went slowly up the broad stairway to her cell-like room , and with dry eyes unpacked her clothes , locked up the ring in her jewelry-box , and prepared to resume her studies . 
The starry veil concealing the Holy of Holies of her Futurity had swayed just once , and as quickly swept back to its wonted folds ; but in that one swift glance she saw , instead of hovering Cherubim , gaunt spectres , woful , appalling as Brimo . 
Irene 's little feet had become entangled in the fatal threads , and , with no thought of flight , she measured the length and breadth of the web , nerving herself to battle till the death . 
Raising his eyes accidentally he caught the smile , wondered what there was to call it forth in the plans which he had just laid before her , and , meeting his glance of surprise , she said , carelessly : `` Are you not going to see Irene before you sail ? '' 
Irene remained ignorant of Russell 's presence in the city , and at last the day dawned on which the vessel was to sail . 
He saw that , contrary to habit , she drank a cup of coffee , and , arresting her arm as she requested his mother to give her a second , he said , gently : `` My dear child , where did you suddenly find such Turkish tastes ? 
An enigma to her own father , it was not wonderful that strangers knit their brows in striving to analyze her character , and cre long the cooing of carrier-pigeons became audible : `` Her mother had been very eccentric ; even before her death it was whispered that insanity hung threateningly over her ; strange things were told of her , and , doubtless , Irene inherited her peculiarities . '' 
But I ca n't realize that this is , indeed , you , my pet -- the Irene I parted with rather more than four years ago . 
You are not the same Irene who used to toil up my office steps , and climb upon the tallest chair to examine the skeletons in my cases -- the snakes and lizards in my jars . 
`` Take care ; you will spoil her , Arnold . 
Let Irene be happy in her own way . 
Did you ever know a leopardess kept in a paddock , and taught to forget her native jungles ? '' 
`` You certainly do n't mean to say that she has inherited -- . '' 
`` I mean to say that , if she were my child , I would be guided by her , instead of striving to cut her character to fit the totally different pattern of my own . '' 
From that day Irene was conscious of a keener and more constant scrutiny on her father 's part -- a ceaseless surveillance , silent , but rigid -- that soon grew intolerable . 
No matter how she employed her time , or whither she went , he seemed thoroughly cognizant of the details of her life ; and where she least expected interruption or dictation , his hand , firm though gentle , pointed the way , and his voice calmly but inflexibly directed . 
Her affection had been in no degree alienated by their long separation , and , through its sway , she submitted for a time ; but Huntingdon blood ill brooked restraint , and , ere long , hers became feverish , necessitating release . 
As in all tyrannical natures , his exactions grew upon her compliance . 
She was allowed no margin for the exercise of judgment or inclination ; her associates were selected , thrust upon her ; her occupations decided without reference to her wishes . 
From the heartless , frivolous routine marked out , she shrank in disgust ; and , painful as was the alternative , she prepared for the clash which soon became inevitable . 
He wished her to be happy , but in his own way , in accordance with his views and aims , and , knowing the utter antagonism of taste and feeling which unfortunately existed , she determined to resist . 
Governed less by impulse than sober second thought and sound reasoning , it was not until after long and patient deliberation that she finally resolved upon her future course , and steadily maintained it . 
She felt most keenly that it was a painful , a lamentable resolution , but none the less a necessity ; and , having once determined , she went forward with a fixedness of purpose characteristic of her family . 
From verbal differences she habitually abstained ; opinions which she knew to be disagreeable to him she carefully avoided giving expression to in his presence ; and , while always studiously thoughtful of his comfort , she preserved a respectful deportment , allowing herself no hasty or defiant words . 
Fortunately for Irene , the servants were admirably trained ; and though this round of company imposed a weight of responsibilities oppressive to one so inexperienced , she applied herself diligently to domestic economy , and soon became familiarized with its details . 
Her father had been very anxious to provide her with a skilful housekeeper , to relieve her of the care and tedious minutia of such matters ; but she refused to accept one , avowing her belief that it was the imperative duty of every woman to superintend and inspect the management of her domestic affairs . 
Consequently , from the first week of her return , she made it a rule to spend an hour after breakfast in her dining-room pantry , determining and arranging the details of the day . 
Two generations had embellished this house , and the modern wings forming the cross had been erected within Irene 's recollection . 
In expectation of her return , an entirely new set of furniture had been selected in New York , and arranged some weeks before her arrival -- costly carpets , splendid mirrors , plush and brocatel sofas , rich china , and every luxury which wealth and fastidious taste could supply . 
Such was Irene 's home -- stately and elegant -- kept so thoroughly repaired that , in its cheerfulness , its age was forgotten . 
The carriage had been despatched to the depot , a servant stood at the end of the avenue waiting to throw open the gate , Mr. Huntingdon walked up and down the wide colonnade , and Irene sat before the fire in her own room , holding in one palm the flashing betrothal ring , which she had been forced to wear since her return from New York . 
She had looked into the rooms to see that all was bright and cheerful , had looped back the curtains in the apartment prepared for Hugh , had filled the vases with flowers that he preferred in his boyhood , and now listened for his approach with complex emotions . 
The sole companion of her infancy , she would have hailed his arrival with unmixed joy , but for the peculiar relationship in which she now stood to him . 
The few years of partial peace had passed ; she knew that the hour drew near when the long-dreaded struggle must begin , and , hopeless of averting it , quietly waited for the storm to break . 
Dropping the ring in her jewelry box , she turned the key , and just then her father 's voice rang through the house . 
`` Irene ! 
She went slowly down stairs , followed by Paragon , and joined her father at the door . 
She held out her hands , and he saw at a glance that her fingers were unfettered . 
Seizing them warmly , he bent forward , but she drew back coldly , and he exclaimed : `` Irene ! 
She made a haughty , repellent gesture , and moved forward a few steps , to greet the stranger who accompanied him . 
The party entered the house , and , seated beside him , Irene gazed with mingled emotions of pain and pleasure upon her mother 's only brother . 
Conversation turned upon the misfortune of the cripple ; he spoke freely of the unsuccessful experiments made by eminent physicians ; of the hopelessness of his case ; and Irene was particularly impressed by the calmness and patience with which he seemed to have resigned himself to this great affliction . 
She could detect no trace of complaining bitterness , or , what was still more to be deplored , the irritable , nervous querulousness so often observed in persons of his situation . 
She found him a ripe scholar , a profound archæologist , and philosophic observer of his age and generation ; and , deeply interested in his quiet , low-toned talk , she felt irresistibly drawn toward him , careless of passing hours and of Hugh 's ill-concealed impatience of manner . 
As they rose from the tea-table her cousin said , laughingly : `` I protest against monopoly . 
`` No , thank you , Irene ; I have a servant who thoroughly understands taking care of me . 
`` Irene , come into the library , and let me have a cigar . '' 
`` It is delightful to get back home , and see you again , Irene . 
`` Irene , I had a right to expect a warmer welcome than you deigned to give me . '' 
She held out her hand carelessly ; he took it eagerly , and holding it up to the light said , in a disappointed tone : `` Irene , where is my ring ? 
He is just his mother over again , and you will see trouble , as sure as your name is Irene , if you do n't take a stand . 
Irene looked after her retreating form , smiling at the superstitious turn her thoughts had taken , then dismissing the subject , she fell asleep , thinking of her uncle . 
In Irene 's presence the subject was temporarily tabooed . 
She knew that the project was not relinquished , was only veiled till a convenient season , and , giving to the momentary lull its full value , she acquiesced , finding in Eric 's society enjoyment and resources altogether unexpected . 
Irene understood the scowl on his brow , but only she possessed the clew , and , lazily sipping his chocolate , Hugh added : `` I recollect him very well as a boy ; he always had a bookish look , and I met him one day on the boulevard at Paris . 
Looking at his watch , he said , as if wishing to cut the conversation short : `` Irene , if you intend to go to church to-day , it is time that you had your bonnet on . 
Irene went to her room , pondering the conversation . 
She thought it remarkable that , as long as she had been at home , she had never seen Russell , even on the street . 
Unlocking her writing-desk , she took out a tiny note which had accompanied a check for two hundred dollars , and had reached her a few months before she left boarding-school . 
Now face and figure , cold and unrelenting , stamped themselves on Irene 's memory as indelibly as those which laborious , patient lapidaries carve on coral or cornelian . 
Once more Irene swept back the rich lace veil , fully exposing her face ; once more her eyes looked into those of the man who politely held the pew door open ; both bowed with stately grace , and she walked down the aisle . 
She heard Russell talking to her uncle just behind her , heard the inquiries concerning his health , the expression of pleasure at meeting again , the hope which Eric uttered that he should see him frequently during his stay in W -- . 
Without even a glance over her shoulder , she proceeded to the carriage , where her uncle soon joined her , taking the front seat instead of sharing the back one , as is customary . 
`` Irene , it is past midnight . '' 
`` Irene , my child , it is one o'clock . '' 
`` Irene , your father forbade your studying until this hour . 
The night was keen , still , and cloudless , and , as Irene locked herself in , the chill from the marble tiles crept through the carpet to her slippered feet . 
She looked at the small siderial clock , and finding that a quarter of an hour must elapse before she could make the desired observation , drew a chair to the table and seated herself . 
She took from the drawer a number of loose papers , and prepared the blank book for registering the observation ; then laid before her a slate covered with figures , and began to run over the calculation . 
At the close of fifteen minutes she placed herself at the telescope , and waited patiently for the appearance of a small star which gradually entered the field ; she noted the exact moment and position , transferred the result to the register , and after a time went back to slate and figures . 
Cautiously she went over the work , now and then having recourse to pen and paper ; she reached the bottom of the slate and turned it over , moving one finger along the lines . 
The solution was wrong ; a mistake had been made somewhere ; she pressed her palm on her forehead , and thought over the whole question ; then began again . 
The work was tedious , the calculation subtle , and she attached great importance to the result ; the second examination was fruitless as the first ; time was wearing away ; where could the error be ? 
Without hesitation she turned back for the third time , and commenced at the first , slowly , patiently threading the maze . 
Suddenly she paused and smiled ; there was the mistake , glaring enough , now . 
She corrected it , and working the sum through , found the result perfectly accurate , according fully with the tables of Leverrier by which she was computing . 
She carefully transferred the operation from slate to paper , and , after numbering the problem with great particularity , placed all in the drawer , and turned the key . 
It was three o'clock ; she opened the door , drew her chair out on the little gallery , and sat down , looking toward the east . 
From her earliest recollection , and especially from the hour of entering school , astronomy and mathematics had exerted an over-mastering influence upon Irene 's mind . 
The ordinary text-books only increased her interest in the former science , and while in New York , with the aid of the professor of astronomy , she had possessed herself of all the most eminent works bearing upon the subject , sending across the Atlantic for tables and selenographic charts , which were not to be procured in America . 
Under singularly favorably auspices she had pursued her studies perseveringly , methodically , and , despite her father 's prohibition , indefatigably . 
He had indulged , in earlier years , a penchantfor the same science , and cheerfully facilitated her progress by rearranging the observatory so as to allow full play for her fine telescope ; but , though proud of her proficiency , he objected most strenuously to her devoting so large a share of her time and attention to this study , and had positively interdicted all observations after twelve o'clock . 
Most girls patronize certain branches of investigation with fitful , spasmodic vehemence , or periodic impulses of enthusiasm ; but Irene knew no intermission of interest , she hurried over no details , and , when the weather permitted , never failed to make her nightly visit to the observatory . 
She loved her work as a painter his canvas , or the sculptor the marble one day to enshrine his cherished ideal ; and she prosecuted it , not as a mere pastime , not as a toy , but as a life-long labor , for the labor 's sake . 
To-night , as her drooping palms nestled to each other , and her eyes searched the vast jewelled dome above , thought , unwearied as the theme it pondered , flew back to the dim gray dawn of Time , `` When the morning-stars sang together , and all the sons of God shouted for joy . '' 
In panoramic vision she crossed the dusty desert of centuries , and watched with Chaldean shepherds the pale , sickly light of waning moons on Shinar 's plains ; welcomed the gnomon -LRB- first-born of the great family of astronomic apparatus -RRB- ; toiled over and gloried in the Zaros ; stood at the armillary sphere of Ju , in the days of Confucius ; studied with Thales , Anaximander , and Pythagoras ; entered the sacred precincts of the school of Crotona , hand in hand with Damo , the earliest woman who bowed a devotee at the starry shrine , and , with her , was initiated into its esoteric doctrines ; puzzled with Meton over his lunar cycle ; exulted in Hipparchus ' gigantic labor , the first collection of tables , the earliest reliable catalogues ; walked through the Alexandrine school of savans , misled by Ptolemy ; and bent with Uliegh Beigh over the charts at Samarcand . 
Among the mysteries of the Crotona school the Samian sage had taught the `` music of the spheres , '' and to-night Irene dwelt upon the thought of that grand choir of innumerable worlds , that mighty orchestra of starry systems , `` Where , through the long-drawn aisle and fretted vault , The pealing anthem swells the note of praise '' unceasingly to the Lord of glory , till her firm lips relaxed , and the immortal words of Shakspeare fell slowly from them : That the myriad members of the shining archipelago were peopled with orders of intelligent beings , differing from our race even as the planets differ in magnitude and physical structure , she entertained not a doubt ; and as feeble fancy struggled to grasp and comprehend the ultimate destiny of the countless hosts of immortal creatures , to which our earthly races , with their distinct , unalterable types , stood that as one small family circle amid clustering worlds , her wearied brain and human heart bowed humbly , reverently , worshippingly before the God of Revelation , who can `` bind the sweet influences of Pleiades , or loose the bands of Orion ; bring forth Mazzaroth in his season , and guide Arcturus with his sons . '' 
Kneeling there , with the twinkling light of stars upon her up-turned face , she prayed earnestly for strength , and grace , and guidance from on High , that she might so live and govern herself that , when the season of earthly probation ended , she could fearlessly pass to her eternal home , and joyfully meet the awful face of Jehovah . 
The night was almost spent ; she knew from the `` celestial clock-work '' that Day blushed just beyond the horizon ; that , ere long , silvergray fingers would steal up the quiet sky , parting the sable curtains ; and , taking the lamp , she hung the observatory key upon her girdle , and glided noiselessly down the stairway to her own apartment . 
Paragon slept on the threshold , and raised his head to greet her ; she stooped , stroked his silky ears , and closed the door , shutting him out . 
Fifteen minutes later she , too , was sleeping soundly ; and an hour and a half afterward , followed by that faithful guardian `` dweller of the threshold '' she swept down the steps , and , amid the matin chant of forest birds , mounted Erebus , and dashed off at full gallop for the customary ride . 
No matter what occurred to prevent her sleeping , she invariably rode before breakfast when the weather permitted ; and as her midnight labors left few hours for repose , she generally retired to her room immediately after dinner and indulged in the luxury of a two hours nap . 
Such was a portion of the regimen she had prescribed for herself on her return from school , and which she suffered only the inclemency of the weather to infringe . 
`` No , Irene ; it is better that I should have a quiet little home of my own , free from the inevitable restraint incident to residing under the roof of another . 
`` Irene , I want a house of my own , to which I can feel privileged to invite such guests , such companions , as I deem congenial , irrespective of the fiats of would-be social autocrats , and the social ostracism of certain cliques . '' 
She was silent a moment , but met his keen look without the slightest embarrassment , and yet when she spoke he knew , from her eyes and voice , that she fully comprehended his meaning . 
Was there prescience in his question , and a quick recognition of it in the quiver which ran across her lips and eyelids ? 
`` Irene , in the name and memory of your mother , promise me one thing : that if sorrows assail you , and a third party can bear aught on his shoulders , you will call upon me . '' 
He looked pained , puzzled , and irresolute ; but she smiled , and swept her fingers over the bars of her bird-cage , toying with its goldenthroated inmate . 
A shadow drifted over the colorless tranquil face , as she said , sadly : `` Uncle Eric , is it utterly useless for me to attempt to persuade you to relinquish this project , and remain with us ? '' 
When it was apparent that no arguments would avail to alter the decision , Irene ceased to speak of it , and busied herself in various undertakings to promote her uncle 's comfort . 
She made pretty white curtains for his library windows , knitted bright-colored worsted lamp-mats , and hemmed and marked the contents of the linencloset . 
The dining-room pantry she took under her special charge , and at the expiration of ten days , when the master took formal possession , she accompanied him , and enjoyed the pleased surprise with which he received her donation of cakes , preserves , catchups , pickles , etc. , etc. , neatly stowed away on the spotless shelves . 
She stepped forward , and arranged some glass jars which stood rather irregularly . 
laughed her uncle . 
He followed her into the next room , and watched her as she leisurely and tastefully disposed her flowers ; now searching the basket for a sprig of ever-green , and now bending obstinate stems to make stiff clusters lean lovingly to each other . 
Placing the vases on the mantle , she stepped back to inspect the effect , and said , gravely : `` How beautiful they are ! 
He took her hand , and drew her close to his chair , saying , gently : `` Ah , Irene ! 
He kissed her fingers tenderly , and , taking her basket , she left him alone in his new home . 
Irene promptly issued the invitations , suppressing the reluctance which filled her heart ; for the young people were not favorites , and she dreaded Charlie 's set speeches and admiring glances , not less than his mother 's endless disquisitions on fashion and the pedigree of all the best families of W -- and its vicinage . 
She and Irene were constantly thrown into each other 's society , but no warmth of feeling existed on either side . 
Grace could not comprehend her companion 's character , and Irene wearied of her gay , heedless chit chat . 
As the latter anticipated , the day proved very tiresome ; the usual complement of music was contributed by Grace , the expected quantity of flattering nothings gracefully uttered by her brother , the customary amount of execrable puns handed around the circle for patronage , and Irene gave the signal for dinner . 
Irene was gravely discussing the tariff question with Mr. Herbert Blackwell -LRB- whom Mrs. Harris pronounced the most promising young lawyer of her acquaintance -RRB- , and politely listening to his stereotyped reasoning , when a scrap of conversation at the opposite end of the table attracted her attention . 
With head slightly inclined , and eyes fixed on Mr. Blackwell 's face , Irene had heard all that passed , and as the gentleman paused in his harangue to drain his glass , she rose and led the way to the parlors . 
As she sprang into the saddle , and gathered up the reins , her father called from the open window , whence issued curling wreaths of blue smoke : `` Where now , Irene ? '' 
Irene felt unwontedly depressed ; the day had wearied her ; she shook the reins , and the beautiful horse sprang on in a quick gallop . 
For a mile farther they dashed along the river bank , and then reining him up , she leaned forward and drew a long , deep breath . 
Urging Erebus into the thicket , Irene broke as many clusters as she could conveniently carry ; dragged a long tangled wreath of late jasmine from its seclusion , fastened it across the pommel of the saddle , and turned her horse 's head homeward . 
The sight of these ivy cups recalled the memory of her aunt Margaret ; they had been her favorite flowers , and , as thought now took another channel , she directed her way to the graveyard . 
She always rode rapidly , and , ere long , Erebus ' feet drew sparks from the rocky road leading up the hill-side to the cemetery gate . 
Dismounting , she fastened the reins to one of the iron spikes , and , gathering the folds of her habit over her arm , carried her flowers to the family-burying ground . 
As she approached , she was surprised to find a low brick wall and beautiful new marble monument close to her father 's lot , and occupying a space which had been filled with grass and weeds a few weeks previous . 
While she paused , wondering whose was the new monument , and resolved to examine it , a tall form stepped from behind the column , and stood , with folded arms , looking down at the grave . 
There was no mistaking face or figure ; evidently he was unaware of her presence , though she was near enough to mark the stern sorrow written on his countenance . 
She glided forward and opened the heavy gate of her own enclosure ; with difficulty she pushed it ajar , and with a sudden , sharp , clanging report it swung back , and the bolt slid to its rusty place . 
He lifted his eyes then , and saw her standing a few yards from him ; the rich soft folds of the Maria Louise blue riding-dress trailed along the ground ; the blue velvet hat , with its long drooping plume , had become loosened by the exercise , and , slipping back , left fully exposed the dazzling white face and golden glory of waving hair . 
`` No soft , neutral , sober ` Graiæ ' there , '' said Irene , lifting her hand to the glowing cloud-panorama . 
`` You have a long walk to town , '' said Irene , as Russell arranged her horse 's reins . 
He held out his hand to assist her ; she sprang easily to the saddle , then leaned toward him , every statue-like curve and moulding of her proud ivory face stamping themselves on his recollection , as she spoke . 
He raised his hat , and , as she wheeled off , the magnetic handsome face followed , haunted her . 
Glancing back as she reached the summit , Irene saw the erect , stern , solitary figure at the extremity of the wooded vista , and in that mystical dim light he looked a colossal avenging Viking . 
Once more , as in childhood , she heard the whirr of the loom of destiny ; and to-night , catching sight of the Parcæ fingers , she knew that along the silver warp of her life ran dark alien threads , interweaving all in one shapeless , tangled web . 
Pausing in the hall , Irene listened an instant to distinguish the voices , then ascended the long , easy stair-case . 
The lamp threw a mellow radiance on the steps , and as she reached the landing Hugh caught her in his arms , and kissed her warmly . 
Startled by his unexpected appearance , she recoiled a step or two and asked , rather haughtily : `` When did you get home ? '' 
She waited to hear no more , but disengaged herself and went to her room . 
Nellie looked cloudy , moody , and her mistress offered no resistance to her directions . 
She went down , and met her father at the dining-room door . 
He looked at her fondly , took her hand , and drew her to the table ; and , in after years , she recalled this occasion with mournful pleasure as the last on which he had ever given her his pet name . 
Irene , how long do you intend to keep me in painful suspense ? '' 
Irene , dearest , be generous , and tell me when will you give me , irrevocably , this hand which has been promised to me from your infancy ? '' 
He took the hand and carried it to his lips , but she forcibly withdrew it , and , disengaging her arm , said , emphatically : `` Never , Hugh . 
`` How can you trifle with me , Irene ? 
`` Oh , Irene ! 
`` My dear Irene , have you , then , no love for me ? 
She leaned against one of the pillars with her arms folded , and a cold , merciless smile curling the beautiful mouth . 
But though he gazed fiercely at her as he uttered the taunt , it produced not the faintest visible effect ; the cloudless chiselled face still wore its quiet smile of mild irony , and the low clear voice preserved its sweetness . 
She held out her hand , but he was too angry to accept it , and asked , haughtily : `` Shall I break this pleasant piece of infor mation to my uncle ? 
She turned to leave him , but he caught her dress , and exclaimed , with more tenderness than he had ever manifested before : `` Oh , Irene ! 
She pointed to the statues near the door , and went through the green-house to the library , thence to the observatory , expecting , ere long , to be joined by her father . 
Gradually the house became quiet , and , oppressed with the painful sense of coming trouble , she sought her own room just as the clock struck twelve . 
Pausing to count the strokes , she saw a light gleaming through the key-hole of her father 's door , opposite her own , and heard the sound of low but earnest conversation mingled with the restless tramp of pacing feet . 
She was powerfully tempted to cross the passage , knock , and have the ordeal ended then and there ; but second thought whispered , `` To-morrow will soon be here ; be patient . '' 
She entered her room , and , wearied by the events of the day , fell asleep , dreaming of the new lot in the cemetery , and the lonely , joyless man who haunted it . 
As she adjusted her riding-habit the following morning , and suffered Andrew to arrange her stirrup , the latter said , good-humoredly : `` So , Mas ' Hugh get the start of you ? 
Thus from the cool serenity , the dewy sparkle , and delicate perfume of the early morning , Irene derived a renewal of strength such as no purely human aid could have furnished . 
She remembered now the sibyllic words of the young minister : `` You , too , must tread the wine-press alone , '' and felt that the garments of her soul were taking the dye , the purple stain of the wine of trial . 
Doubtless he had alluded to a different ordeal , but she knew that all the future of her earthly existence was to receive its changeless hue from this day , and she could entertain but a modicum of doubt as to what that hue would prove . 
Returning from her ride , she stood a moment on the front step , looking down the avenue . 
`` Irene , I was very much astonished to learn the result of an interview between Hugh and yourself ; I can scarcely believe that you were in earnest , and feel disposed to attribute your foolish words to some trifling motive of girlish coquetry or momentary pique . 
Irene , there can be peace between us , but upon one condition ; I have set my heart on seeing you Hugh 's wife ; nothing less will satisfy me . 
`` Do not get up , Irene ; I will sit here beside you . 
She looked in his face , smiled , and passed her hand over her forehead , hiding the blue cord . 
A short silence followed , broken at last by Electra , who watched him keenly as she spoke : `` Tell me something about Irene . 
Of course , in a small town like W -- , you must see her frequently . '' 
I think I have seen her but three times since her childhood -- once riding with her father , then accidentally at church , and again , a few evenings before I left , at the graveyard , where she was dressing a tombstone with flowers . 
She inquired after you , and desired me to tender you her love and best wishes . '' 
He neither started nor changed color at the mention of Irene 's name , but straightened himself , and buttoned to the throat the black coat , which , from the warmth of the room , he had partially loosened . 
`` Is she not a great belle ? '' 
`` I presume few women have been more admired than she is . 
I hear much of her beauty , and the sensation which it creates wherever she goes ; but the number of her suitors is probably limited , from the fact that it is generally known she is engaged to her cousin , young Seymour . '' 
`` I can not believe that she loves him . '' 
She is bound , hand and foot , and her father will immolate her on the altar of money . '' 
`` You mistake her character , Russell . 
I know her better , and I tell you there is none of the Iphigenia in her nature . '' 
`` At least I do not mistake her father 's , and I pity the woman whose fate rests in his iron grasp . '' 
`` She holds hers in her own hands , small and white though they are ; and , so surely as the stars shine above us , she will marry only where she loves . 
She has all the will which has rendered the name of her family proverbial . 
I have her here in crayons ; tell me what you think of the likeness . '' 
She took down a portfolio and selected the head of her quondam playmate , holding it under the gas-light , and still scrutinizing her cousin 's countenance . 
`` It scarcely does her justice ; I doubt whether any portrait ever will . 
Beside , the expression of her face has changed materially since this was sketched . 
There is a harder outline now about her mouth , less of dreaminess in the eyes , more of cold hauteurin the whole face . 
If you desire it , I can , in one line of Tennyson , photograph her proud beauty , as I saw her mounted on her favorite horse , the week that I left home : '' `` Faultily faultless , icily regular , splendidly null ! '' 
The door closed behind him , and she remained standing for some time just as he left her . 
Slowly the folded hands shrank from each other , and dropped nerveless to her side ; the bright glow in her cheeks , the dash of crimson on her lips , faded from both ; the whole face relaxed into an expression of hopeless agony . 
Lonely as Moses when he calmly climbed Nebo to die , she bowed herself a despairing victim upon the grim , flint-fronted altar of Necessity . 
`` Irene brings them almost every day from the green-house on the hill . 
She takes a peculiar pleasure in arranging them in my vases . 
I think she stood a half-hour yesterday twining and bending those stems the way she wanted them to hang . 
They are so brittle that I snap the blossoms off , but in her hands they seem pliable enough . '' 
Nearly a half-hour passed thus , when the library door was opened hastily , and Irene came in , dressed magnificently in party costume . 
She stood a moment , irresolute and surprised , with her eyes fixed on Russell 's , then both bowed silently , and she came to the fire . 
She laid her cold pearly hand on his forehead , and stood at his side . 
`` Sit down , Irene ; here , child , where I can look at you . 
`` Irene is the only perfectly beautiful woman I ever saw ; and yet , Aubrey , it makes me sad to watch her countenance . '' 
`` Whenever I see her I can not avoid recalling an old Scandinavian myth , she realizes so fully my ideal Iduna , standing at the portals of Valhalla , offering apples of immortality . '' 
This was the second time that he had been invited by the Hendersons , and he had almost determined to decline as formerly , but something in Irene 's chill manner changed his resolution . 
Bitterly , bitterly came memories of early trial , and now the haughtiness of Irene 's manner stung him as nothing else could possibly have done . 
Irene stood not far off , talking to the Governor of the state , who chanced to be on a brief visit to W -- , and quite near her Judge Harris and her father were in earnest conversation . 
Astonished at the sudden apparition , her eyes followed him as he bowed to the members of the central group ; and , as she heard the deep rich voice above the buzz of small talk , she waited to see if he would notice her . 
Soon Governor G -- gave her his arm for a promenade , and she found herself , ere long , very near Maria , who was approaching with Russell . 
He was saying something , at which she laughed delightedly ; just then his eye fell on Irene ; there was no token of recognition on the part of either ; but the Governor , in passing , put out his hand to shake Russell 's , and asked for Mr. Campbell . 
As Irene leaned against the window-frame in the crowded supper-room she heard Charlie Harris gaily bantering Maria on the events of the evening . 
Miss Irene , I have not heard you rhapsodizing yet about the new sensation . '' 
As Irene uttered these words , she involuntarily crushed her bouquet and threw it from her , while Hugh expected an explosion of wrath on the part of his uncle . 
It wanted but three hours to dawn ; but he heeded it not ; the sight of the massive old watch brought vividly back the boyish days of sorrow , and he sat thinking of that morning of shame , when Irene came close to him , nestling her soft little hand in his , and from some long-silent , dark , chill chamber of memory leaped sweet , silvery , childish echoes : `` Oh , Russell ! 
Irene and her uncle rode down to learn the truth , and , not knowing where to find Mr. Huntingdon , stopped the carriage at the corner of the main street , and waited a few moments . 
The carriage-top was thrown back , and by the neighboring gas-light he saw Irene 's white face turned toward him , then the horses sprang off . 
Irene sank back and folded her mantle closer around her . 
`` Your father 's speech , last week , was most unfortunate in every respect , '' said her uncle , who felt indignant and mortified at the course pursued by his brother-in-law . 
Her dreary tone disconcerted him , and he offered no farther comment , little suspecting that her hands were pressed hard against her heart , and that her voiceless sorrow was : `` Henceforth we must be still more estranged ; a wider gulf , from this night , divides us . '' 
The witchery of Southern spring again enveloped W -- , and Irene stood on the lawn surveying the `` greenery of the out-door world '' that surrounded her . 
With her brown straw hat in one hand and a willow-basket filled with flowers in the other , Irene leaned against the glossy trunk of an ancient wild-cherry tree , and looked in dreamy abstraction down the long shadowy vista of venerable elms . 
Paragon lay panting on the grass at her feet , now and then snapping playfully at the tame pigeons who had followed their mistress out upon the lawn , fluttering and cooing continually around her ; and a few yards off a golden pheasant and two peacocks sunned their gorgeous plumage on the smoothly-cut hedges . 
`` Through no fault of mine , Irene ; I never received it , believe me . 
`` Irene , ` why stand ye here all the day idle ? ' 
Irene , tell me what is this dark cloud that shuts out sunshine from your heart , and throws such a chill shadow over your face ? '' 
`` Irene , you deal in similies and vague generalities . 
`` Forgive me , Irene ; I retract my words . 
For some moments silence reigned ; then , standing before him , Irene said , with touching pathos : `` My friend , I am so desolate ! 
For a short while he struggled with himself , striving to overcome the unconquerable impulse which suddenly prompted him , and his face grew pallid as hers as he walked hastily across the smooth grass and came back to her . 
Her countenance was lifted toward the neighboring hill , her thoughts evidently far away , when he paused before her , and said , unsteadily : `` Irene , my beloved ! 
The mesmeric eyes gazed into his , full of wonder , and the rich ruby tint fled from her lips as she pondered his words in unfeigned astonishment , and , shaking her regal head , answered , slowly : `` Harvey , I am not worthy . 
Irene , you are young , and singularly beautiful , and I am a gray-haired man , much , much older than yourself ; but , if you live a thousand years , you will never find such affection as I offer you now . 
Irene , will you share my future ? 
The strong , holy , manly love , the noble heart and head to guide her , the firm , tender hand to support her , the constant , congenial , and delightful companionship -- all this passed swiftly through her mind ; but , crushing all in its grasp , came the memory of one whom she rarely met , but who held undisputed sway over her proud heart . 
Drawing close to the minister , she laid her hands on his shoulder , and , looking reverently up into his fine face , said , in her peculiarly sweet clear voice : `` The knowledge of your priceless , unmerited love makes me proud beyond degree ; but I would not mock you by the miserable and only return I could make you -- the affection of a devoted sister . 
A shiver crept over her still face , and she drooped her pale forehead . 
She felt two tears fall upon her hair , and in silence he bent down and kissed her softly , tenderly , as one kisses a sleeping babe . 
He smiled sadly , as if not daring to trust himself in words ; then , after a moment , laying his hands upon her head , in the baptism of a deathless love , he gently and solemnly blessed her . 
When his fingers were removed she raised her eyes , but he had gone ; she saw only the retreating form through the green arches of the grand old avenue . 
Irene begged the privilege of accompanying him , but her father peremptorily refused ; and she saw her uncle depart , and superintended the closing of his house , with silent sorrow , and the feeling of one who knows that the night is deepening around her . 
In the course of the political cataclysm much chaff came to the surface , and whirled along with portentous alacrity ; gossip seemed to have received a new impetus , and among the most important onditswas that of Irene 's speedy marriage to her cousin . 
Late in the afternoon of Christmas day Irene went into the green-house to gather a bouquet for an invalid friend in town , and had almost accomplished her errand when the crash and whir of wheels drew her to the window that looked out upon the lawn . 
Her father had gone to the plantation early that morning , and she had scarcely time to conjecture whom the visitor would prove , when Hugh 's loud voice rang through the house , and , soon after , he came clattering in , with the end of his pantaloons crammed into his boots and his whip trailing along in true boyish fashion . 
As he threw down his hat , scattering the petals of a snowy camelia , and drew near his couisin , she saw that his face was deeply flushed , and his eyes somewhat bloodshot . 
He stooped , as if to kiss her , but she shrank back instantly , and said , gravely : `` You ought not to make promises which you have no idea of keeping ; father will be annoyed , and wonder very much what has happened . 
A shade of apprehension settled on her face , and , placing the bouquet in a basket , she turned to her cousin , saying : `` Indeed , you can not be insane enough to drive that horse such a night as this weather threatens . 
She stepped into the parlor adjoining , and laid her fingers on the bell-cord , but he snatched up the hand and kissed it several times . 
She drew him into the room , where a warm fire burned cheerfully , and made him sit down . 
Without answering , she rang the bell and quietly looped back the heavy crimson curtains . 
Turning to John , who opened the door and looked in , she said : `` Tell William to make some strong coffee as soon as possible . 
An expression of disgust was discernible in his companion 's countenance , but it passed like the shadow of a summer cloud , and she sat down at the opposite side of the fire-place , with her eyes bent upon the hearth , and the long silky lashes sweeping her cheeks . 
But seriously , Irene , if you do not admire my style of living , why do n't you take me in hand , as is your privilege , and make me a model of strait-laced propriety ? '' 
She allowed him to press his hot lips to hers , and , accompanying him to the door , saw him jump into the frail open-topped buggy . 
Seven hours later Irene sat alone at the library table , absorbed in writing an article on Laplace 's Nebular Theory for the scientific journal to which she occasionally contributed over the signature of `` Sabæan . '' 
Several books , with close `` marginalias , '' were scattered around , and the `` Mécanique Céleste '' and a volume of `` Cosmos '' lay open before her . 
Wrapped in her work , Irene wrote on rapidly till the clock struck twelve . 
She counted the strokes , saw that there remained but one page uncopied , and concluded to finish the MS. At last she affixed her nom de plume , numbered the pages , and folded the whole for transmission . 
The fire was still bright ; and , with no inclination to go to sleep , she replaced the books on their respective shelves , turned up the wick of the lamp , and sat down close to the grate to warm her stiffened fingers . 
Gradually her thoughts wandered from the completed task to other themes of scarcely less interest . 
The week previous she had accompanied Hugh to an operatic concert given by the Parodi troupe , and had been astonished to find Russell seated on the bench in front of her . 
They had met frequently since the evening at Mr. Mitchell 's , but he pertinaciously avoided recognizing her ; and , on this particular night , though he came during an interlude to speak to Grace Harris , who sat on the same row of seats with Irene , he never once directed his eyes toward the latter . 
This studied neglect , she felt assured , was not the result of the bitter animosity existing between her father and himself ; and though it puzzled her for a while , she began finally to suspect the true nature of his feelings , and , with woman 's rarely erring instincts , laid her finger on the real motive which prompted him . 
It was a vigil which she never forgot ; the slow hours crushed her as they rolled , the very atmosphere seemed filled with the curse which brooded inexorably over the ancient house , and when , at last , the eastern sky blanched , and the wan forehead of the day lifted itself sadly up , it seemed , indeed , as if -- Shaking off her covering , Irene passed into the green-house , and broke clusters of jasmine and spicy geranium leaves , and , thus engaged , her glance fell upon the dashed camelia petals which Hugh had ruined so recklessly the previous evening . 
And she felt a keen pang at sight of his cambric handkerchief , which had been dropped unconsciously between two branching fuchsias . 
As she stooped and picked it up , his name stared at her , and the soft folds gave out the powerful breath of bergamot , of which he was particularly fond . 
She turned away from the wealth of beauty that mocked her sorrow , and walked on to the library . 
She stood by the table , half-irresolute , then folded down the sheet , and exposed the handsome , untroubled face . 
She studied it long and quietly , and with no burst of emotion laid her flowers against his cheek and mouth , and scattered the geraniums over his pulseless heart . 
The voice was low and even , but wonderfully sweet , and in the solemn morning light her face showed itself gray and bloodless ; no stain of color on the still lips , only the blue cord standing out between the brows , sure signet of a deep distress which found no vent . 
Russell felt a crushing weight lifted from his heart ; he saw that she had `` loved her cousin , cousinly -- no more ; '' and his face flushed when she looked across the table at him , with grateful but indescribably melancholy eyes , which had never been closed during that night of horror . 
She held out her hand , and , as he took it in his , which trembled violently , he felt , even then , that there was no quiver in the icy white fingers , and that his name rippled over her lips as calmly as that of the dead had done just before . 
She endured his long , searching gaze , like any other Niobe , and he dropped the little pearly hand and quitted the room . 
She heard his quick step ring changes down the long hall and stony steps , and , when all was still again , she knelt beside the table , and crossing her arms over it , bowed her face upon them . 
But none dared disturb or address the kneeling figure , veiled by waving hair , and giving no more sign of life than the form before her . 
She lifted her rigid face , and extended her arms , pleadingly . 
He turned from her sternly , and answered , with bitter emphasis : `` I will not ! 
She bent down and kissed her cousin , and , with a hard , bitter expression in her countenance , went up to her own room , locking out Paragon and old Nellie , who followed cautiously at her heels . 
`` Where are you going , Irene ? '' 
She went to her room , changed her dress for her riding-habit , and came down to the front door , where her father sat smoking . 
She made no reply , but mounted the beautiful spirited animal , who arched his neck and curveted at sight of the basket . 
Patting his mane soothingly , she hung the basket securely on the pommel of the saddle , and rode off . 
`` He is wilder to-day than he was when I first bought him ; he will break her neck yet , I have n't a doubt , '' muttered Mr. Huntingdon , looking after her . 
I give it up , sir , and told Miss Irene he was in one of his tantrums , and I could do nothing with him . 
She just put on her hat and walked over to the pasture , and the minute he saw her coming he neighed two or three times , and , before I could get to her , she had her hand on his mane , patting him , and he was rubbing his head against her . 
Miss Irene can tame anything in this world , she has such a steady , conquering look in her eyes . '' 
The smoky atmosphere , which had hung all day in purple folds around the distant hills , took a golden haze as the sun sank rapidly ; and to Irene 's gaze river and wood-land , hill-side and valley , were brimmed with that weird `` light which never was on sea or land . '' 
Her almost `` Brahminical '' love of nature had grown with her years , but a holier element mingled with her adoration now ; she looked beyond the material veil of beauty , and bowed reverently before the indwelling Spiritual Presence . 
Only during these silent hours of communion afforded by her solitary rides was the shadow lifted from her heart , and at such times immemorial Cybele 's fingers , soft and warm , touched the still face , and the icy lines melted . 
Since Hugh 's death , nearly a year before , she had become a recluse , availing herself of her mourning dress to decline all social engagements , and during these months a narrow path opened before her feet , she became a member of the church which she had attended from infancy , and her hands closed firmly over her life-work . 
The baffling Sphinx that had so long vexed her sat no more at the cross-roads of her existence ; she found an Œdipus in the far more than cabalistic words : Sorrow and want hung out their signs among the poor of W -- , and here , silently , but methodically , she had become , not a ministering angel certainly , but a generous benefactress , a noble , sympathetic friend -- a counsellor whose strong good sense rendered her advice and guidance valuable indeed . 
By a system of rigid economy she was enabled to set apart a small portion of money , which she gave judiciously , superintending its investment ; kind , hopeful words she scattered like sunshine over every threshold ; and here and there , where she detected smouldering aspiration , or incipient appreciation of learning , she fanned the spark with some suitable volume from her own library , which , in more than one instance , became the germ , the spring of `` a joy for ever . '' 
Frequently her father threw obstacles in her way , sneering all the while at her `` sanctimonious freaks . '' 
Sometimes she affected not to notice the impediments , sometimes frankly acknowledged their magnitude , and climbed right over them , on to her work . 
Among the factory operatives she found the greatest need of ameliorating touches of every kind . 
Improvident , illiterate , in some cases almost brutalized , she occasionally found herself puzzled as to the proper plan to pursue ; but her womanly heart , like the hidden jewelled levers of a watch , guided the womanly hands unerringly . 
This evening , as she approached the row of low white-washed houses , a crowd of children swarmed out , as usual , to stare at her . 
She rode up to a door-step where a boy of some fourteen years sat sunning himself , with an open book on his knee and a pair of crutches beside him . 
At sight of her a bright smile broke over his sickly face , and he tried to rise . 
She dismounted , and , taking her basket , placed the bridle in the boy 's hand , saying encouragingly , as Erebus put up his ears and looked vicious : `` Do n't be afraid of him . 
He smiled assent , wrapped the bridle round his wrist , and returned eagerly to his treasure , Simms ' `` Life of Nathaniel Green , '' while Irene passed into the adjoining house . 
She stretched out her wasted hand , and said : `` Ah , Miss Irene ! 
asked Irene , walking around to the other side of the bed , and examining Susan 's pulse . 
Miss Irene , will you be good enough to give me a drink of water ? 
`` How does he appear to be , Miss Irene ? 
Oh , Miss Irene ! 
`` Yes , Miss Irene . '' 
Irene , I am glad to see you . 
`` Irene , I have watched you for years with hungry , eager eyes ; and of late I have followed you in your rounds among the poor . 
`` I believe , Irene , I am entirely innocent of any agrarian or socialistic tendency . '' 
Before breakfast the following morning , while Irene was in the poultry-yard feeding her chickens and pigeons , pheasants and peafowls , she received a note from Dr. Arnold containing these few scrawling words : `` If you do not feel quite ready for the day of judgment , avoid the Row as you would the plagues of Egypt . 
As he made no inquiry about the sick , she volunteered no explanation , and he bade her good-by with manifest cold indifference . 
She could not avoid congratulating herself that , since he must take this journey soon , he had selected the present occasion to be absent , for she was well aware that he would violently oppose her wishes in the matter of the Row . 
When Dr. Arnold met her , late in the afternoon of the same day , at little Johnnie 's side , his surprise and chagrin found vent , first in a series of oaths , then , scowling at her like some thunder-cloud with the electricity expended , he said : `` Do you consider me a stark idiot , or a shallow quack ? '' 
Look here , Irene , I shall go straight to your father and let him know the facts . 
She slipped her hand into his , and looked up , smiling and calm , into his harsh , swarthy face . 
From that hour she kept faithful vigil in No. 13 -- passing continually from one bedside to another . 
Susan 's attack proved comparatively light , and she was soon pronounced convalescent ; but little Johnnie was desperately ill , and for several nights Irene sat at his pillow , fearing that every hour would be his last . 
While his delirium was at its height , Hester was taken violently , and on the morning when Irene felt that her labor was not in vain and that the boy would get well , his little sister , whom she had nursed quite as assiduously , grew rapidly worse , and died at noon . 
It spread with astonishing celerity through the Row , baffling the efforts of the best physicians in W -- ; and finally , the day after Hester 's death , as Irene sat trying to comfort the poor mother , a neighbor came in , exclaiming : `` Oh , Miss Irene ! 
She went promptly , though so wearied she could scarcely stand , and took a seat by the bed where tossed the poor boy in whom she had taken such an interest since the accident which crushed his leg in the machinery , and rendered him a temporary cripple . 
`` He has been talking about you constantly , Miss Irene , and calling for you . 
Philip , my son , here is Miss Irene . '' 
His father can watch him till his mother gets stronger , '' said Dr. Brandon , who was fully acquainted with her unremitting attendance at the next house . 
`` Yes -- Miss Irene . '' 
`` Irene , what do you want ? 
`` You do n't think she is any worse , do you ? '' 
`` I do n't know anything , except that she ca n't lay this way much longer . '' 
`` In all that I have ever done I have looked only to her good , to her ultimate happiness . 
I know that she -- . '' 
Give Irene a spoonful of that mixture in the small vial at seven o'clock . '' 
`` She was one of my mother 's best friends , though only a little girl at the time . '' 
The possibility of an attachment between Irene and the blind widow 's son had never occurred to him before ; but that Russell 's unmistakable emotion could be referable simply to gratitude to his mother 's benefactress , was an explanation of which he was disposed to be very sceptical . 
If this surmise should prove correct , what were Irene 's feelings toward the popular young politician ? 
Here he was absolutely without data ; he could recall nothing to assist him ; but , comprehending the bitter animosity existing between the lawyer and her father , he sighed involuntarily , knowing the hopelessness of any such attachment on either or both sides . 
`` That everlasting picking , picking at everything , is such an awful bad sign , '' said poor Nellie , who was crying bitterly at the foot of the bed , and she covered her face with her apron to shut out the sight . 
`` Irene -- Irene , take this for me , wo n't you , dear ? '' 
She gave no intimation of having heard him till he placed the wineglass to her mouth and raised her head tenderly ; then she swallowed the contents mechanically . 
At the expiration of an hour he repeated the dose , and at ten o'clock , while he sat watching her intently , he saw the eyelids begin to droop , the long silky lashes quivered and touched her cheeks . 
When he listened to her breathing , and knew that at last she slept , his gray head sank on his chest , and he murmured , inaudibly , `` thank God ! '' 
Tears of joy almost blinded the doctor as he pushed Paragon aside , and said , eagerly : `` Irene , one dog is as good as another ! 
Irene , how do you feel , child ? '' 
`` Irene -- what is the matter , dear child ? 
You must be prudent , Irene , for you are not strong yet , by a great deal . '' 
`` Oh , Miss Irene ! 
A deep flush mantled his sallow cheek , and , drooping his head as if in humiliation , he said , passionately : `` Oh , Miss Irene ! 
Miss Irene , I feel like jumping into the river and drowning myself . 
`` No , Miss Irene ! 
If you please , Miss Irene , I should be so glad if you would talk to him , and persuade him to take the pledge before he starts . 
`` Oh , Miss Irene ! 
As she heard his halting step descend the stairs she leaned back wearily in her chair , and , closing her eyes , these words crept almost inaudibly over her pale lips : `` Well , Irene , what is your decision about the party at Mrs. Churchhill 's to-night ? '' 
Indeed , Irene , I wo n't permit it any longer ; you must come out into the world once more . 
Mr. Huntingdon smoked his after-breakfast cigar half-reclined on the upper step , and Irene walked up and down the wide colonnade , enjoying the cool , dewy , fragrant June day , whose sun was rapidly mounting in heaven . 
`` Irene , sit here on the step , where I can see you without twisting my head off of my shoulders . 
`` Nonsense , Irene ! 
`` But , Irene , I ca n't be expected to live always , even were my society sufficient for you , which is not true . '' 
For heaven 's sake , Irene ! 
`` But the result of the visit , Irene ? '' 
A short silence ensued : Irene sat , seemingly abstracted , dipping her slender hand in a ruby-colored Bohemian finger-bowl . 
Presently John returned ; she took the bottle from him , and , filling her father 's glass , said , earnestly : `` Father , I have a favor to ask at your hands ; are you in a mood for concessions ? '' 
`` Irene , look at yourself . 
Irene 's dress was an airy blue tulle , flounced to the waist , and without trimming save the violet and clematis clusters . 
Salome 's reputation as a brilliant bellehad become extended since Irene 's long seclusion , yet to-night , on the re-appearance of the latter , it was apparent to even the most obtuse that she resumed her sway -- the matchless cynosura of that social system . 
Fully conscious of the intense admiration she excited , she moved slowly from room to room , smiling once or twice when she met her father 's proud look of fond triumph fixed upon her . 
Leaning against the window to rest , while Charles Harris went in search of a glass of water , she heard her name pronounced by some one on the gallery . 
Irene moved away from the window , and soon after was about to accompany Charlie to the hall , when Mr. Bainbridge came up and claimed her hand for the cotillon forming in the next room . 
As they took their places on the floor , she saw that Salome and Russell would be vis-a-vis . 
Irene moved mechanically through the airy mazes of the dance , giving apparent attention to the low-toned , half-whispered observations of her devoted partner , but straining her ear to catch the mellow voice which uttered such graceful fascinating nothings to Salome . 
Once Irene looked up steadily , and as she noted the expression with which he regarded his companion she wondered no longer at the rumor she had heard , and acknowledged to herself that they were , indeed , a handsome couple . 
Dr. Arnold , whom Mrs. Churchhill had coaxed into `` showing himself , '' had curiously watched this meeting , and observing Russell 's marked attentions , puzzled over the question : `` Does he really care for that fire-fly , or is he only trying to make Irene jealous ? '' 
The dance ended ; Irene found herself seated on a sofa at the window of the deserted library , and Russell and Salome walked slowly up and down the veranda in front of it . 
Mr. Bainbridge had manœuvred for this opportunity , and , seated beside Irene , he eagerly and eloquently pleaded his cause , assuring her of a devotion which should know no diminution , and emphasizing the fact that he had possessed himself of her father 's sanction . 
She made no attempt to interrupt him , but sat erect and motionless , with one hand partially shielding her face , and the other pressed hard against her heart , where a dull continual pain was gnawing . 
Irene could see the outline of his features distinctly , and her soul sickened as she watched him and reasoned concerning the future . 
The two passed on into the parlors , and closing her eyes a moment , as if shutting out some hideous vision , Irene briefly , but firmly and irrevocably , declined the flattering offer ; and rising , left him with his disappointment . 
She looked about for Dr. Arnold , but he had disappeared ; her father was deep in a game of euchre ; and as she crossed the hall she was surprised to see Philip leaning against the door-facing , and peering curiously into the parlors . 
`` Oh , Miss Irene ! 
She went to the dressing-room , asked for pencil and paper , and wrote a few lines , which she directed the servant to hand immediately to her father -- found her shawl , and stole down to the side door . 
She saw the dim outline of a form sitting on the step , in the shadow of clustering vines , and asked : `` Is that you , Philip ? 
`` Miss Irene , Andrew says he ca n't get to the side gate for the carriages . 
She passed him , and accompanied Philip to the carriage . 
A few minutes rapid driving brought them to the Row , and , directing Andrew to return and wait for her father , Irene entered the low small chamber where a human soul was pluming itself for its final flight home . 
Irene poured some cordial into a glass and put it to her lips , but she refused the draught , and , joining her emaciated hands , muttered , half-inaudibly : `` Pray for me once more . 
Kneeling on the bare floor in the midst of a sobbing group , Irene prayed long and earnestly , and gradually , as her sweet voice rolled through the room , a peaceful look settled on the dying mother 's face . 
At last the petition ended and silence reigned , broken only by the smothered sobs of Susan and little Johnnie , who clung to Irene 's hand and buried his face in her dress as she still knelt at the bedside . 
She closed her eyes and whispered : `` Sing my -- hymn -- once -- more . '' 
Making a great effort to crush her own feelings , Irene sang the simple but touching words of `` Home Again , '' and though her voice faltered now and then , she sang it through -- knowing , from the expression of the sufferer 's face , that the spirit was passing to its endless rest . 
Miss Irene , is my mother dead ? '' 
`` My dear little boy , she has gone to our Father in heaven , who will make her happier than she could possibly be in this world . '' 
A passionate burst of sorrow followed the discovery of the melancholy truth , and rising from the floor Irene seated herself on a chair , taking the child on her lap , and soothing his violent grief . 
She directed Susan to take him into the next room and put him on his pallet ; and when she had exchanged a few words with Philip 's mother about the disposition of the rigid sleeper , she turned to quit the apartment , and saw Russell standing on the threshold . 
Oh , Irene ! 
Irene ! 
Irene , look at me ! 
`` Irene , you are kind and merciful to the poor wretches in the Row . 
Irene , I looked at you to-night in all your wonderful , incomparable loveliness , as you hung upon the arm of your acknowledged lover , and the possibility of your becoming that man 's wife absolutely maddened me . 
Irene , you loved me once -- nay , do n't deny it ! 
But you are not my Irene ! 
The world 's queen , the dazzling idol of the ball-room , is not my blue-eyed , angelic Irene of old ! 
`` Irene , are we to walk different paths henceforth -- utter strangers ? 
As Irene approached the scissors rested , and all looked up . 
`` I expect he is asleep , Miss Irene -- but I will wake him . '' 
It was not the carriage which Irene met at the door , but Dr. Arnold 's buggy . 
`` Irene , are you ready to go home ? '' 
The top of the buggy had been lowered , and as they rode homeward she leaned her head back , turning her face to the sickly moonlight . 
`` Irene , did Aubrey come up here with you ? '' 
It was the first time he had heard her laugh since her return from New York . 
Do n't you believe it , Irene ? '' 
Fulminating inaudible plagues on the chased silver toy , the doctor picked it up and placed it in her hand . 
They went into the house , and as he filled and lighted his pipe his cavernous eyes ran curiously over her . 
In her own room she took off the jewels , withered violets , and moist tulle -- and , drawing on her dressing-gown , went up to the observatory , and sat down on the threshold of one of the glass doors looking eastward . 
These words of scorn were the burning shares over which her bare feet trod , and his bitter accents wailed up and down her lonely heart , mournful as the ceaseless cry of `` El Alma Perdida '' in moonless , breezeless Amazonian solitudes . 
Through the remainder of that cloudless night she wrestled silently -- not like the Jewish patriarch , with angels -- but with Despair , grim as Geryon . 
At last , when the sky flushed rosily , like an opal smitten with light , and holy Resignation -- the blessing born only of great trial like hers -- shed its heavenly chrism over the worn and weary , bruised and bleeding spirit , she gathered up the mangled hopes that might have gladdened , and gilded , and glorified her earthly career , and pressing the ruins to her heart , laid herself meekly down , offering all upon the God-built altar of Filial Obedience . 
In the `` ... early morning , when the air Was delicate with some last starry touch , '' she opened the door of her father 's room and approached the bed . 
The noise wakened him , and , raising himself on his elbow , he looked wonderingly at her . 
`` What is the matter , Irene ? 
`` You are a strange girl , Irene ; I never did understand you . 
He leaned forward and laid his hand caressingly on her head , as she knelt at his bedside pleading with uplifted arms . 
For the first time in her life Irene openly confronted her father 's wrath on political grounds . 
W -- was vociferous ; and as Irene gazed from the colonnade on the distant but brilliant rows of lights flaming along the streets , she regretted that respect for her father 's feelings kept the windows of her own home dark and cheerless . 
W -- was almost wild with anxiety ; and in the afternoon of the second day of the bombardment , as Irene watched the avenue , she saw her father driving rapidly homeward . 
Descending the steps , she met him at the buggy . 
He paused , and eyed her a moment . 
`` How , Irene ? 
A long shiver crept over her , and she shielded her face with her hands . 
When she met his eagle eye again her voice was unsteady . 
He laughed lightly , and swept his fingers over her head . 
Really , though , Irene , I do not believe that you would flinch before all the cannon of Borodino . 
More reticent than ever , Irene busied herself in devising and arranging various little comforts for her father , when he should be debarred from the luxuries of home . 
No traces of tears were ever visible on her grave , composed face ; but several times , on coming suddenly into the room , he found that her work had fallen into her lap , and that her head was bowed down on her arms . 
She loved him with a devotion very rarely found between father and child , and this separation cost her hours of silent agony , which even her father could not fully appreciate . 
Having completed his arrangements , and ordered the carriage to be in readiness at daylight next morning to convey him to the depot , he bade her good-night much as usual , and retired to his own room . 
The clock down stairs in the library struck one ; his door opened softly , and , by the dim moonlight struggling through the window , he saw Irene glide to his bedside . 
`` Why do n't you go to sleep , Irene ? '' 
Her voice was dry , but broken , faltering . 
She put her arm about his neck , drawing his face close to hers , and he felt her lips quiver as they touched his cheek . 
I am surprised at you , Irene ; upon my word , I am . 
He drew her close to him , and kissed her twice . 
Irene , I very often wonder whether you have any heart -- for it seems to me that if you have , it would have been won by the devotion which has been lavished on you more than once . 
He unclasped her arm and turned his face away , saying , coldly : `` Do you consider it your privilege to tell me that I am so wicked there is no hope for me in the next world , if there be one ? '' 
She kissed him tenderly and left him , closing the door softly behind her . 
A spectral crescent moon flickered in the sky , and stars still burned in the violet East , when the carriage drove to the door , and Irene followed her father to the steps . 
Even in that dim , uncertain gray light he could see that her face was rigid and haggard , and tears filled his cold brilliant eyes as he folded her to his heart . 
She trembled convulsively , pressing her lips repeatedly to his . 
He unwound her arms , put her gently aside , and stepped into the carriage . 
William , the cook , who was to accompany him , stood sobbing near the door , and now advancing , grasped her hand . 
`` Good-by , Miss Irene . 
`` I will , Miss Irene . 
He wrung her hand , the carriage rolled rapidly away , and the sorrow-stricken , tearless woman sat down on the steps and dropped her head in her hands . 
Oppressed with a horrible dread , against which she struggled in vain , Irene remained alone , and was only aroused from her painful reveric by the low musical cooing of the pigeons , already astir . 
As they fluttered and nestled about , she extended her arms , and catching two of the gentlest to her heart , murmured , mournfully : `` Come , messengers of peace ! 
They were temporarily encamped on the common between the railroad depot and Mr. Huntingdon 's residence , and from the observatory or colonnade Irene could look down on the gleaming tents and the flag-staff that stood before the officers quarters . 
Reveillestartled her at dawn , and tattooregularly warned her of the shortness of summer nights . 
As the fiery carriage-horses would not brook the sight of the encampment , she discarded them for a time , and when compelled to leave home rode Erebus , at no slight risk of her life -- for he evinced the greatest repugnance to the sound of drum or fife . 
One afternoon she went over to the Row , and thence to the factory . 
A new company had been named in honor of her father ; uniforms and haversacks were to be furnished , and Mr. Huntingdon had intrusted her with the commission . 
Selecting the cloth and accomplishing her errand , she returned by way of the orphan-asylum , whose brick walls were rapidly rising under her supervision . 
One of the workmen took her horse , and she went over the building , talking to the principal mechanic about some additional closets which she desired to have inserted . 
It would never do to have the handsome colonel maimed for life , through the awkwardness of a new-fledged M. D. Miss Salome would spoil her superb eyes with crying -- which catastrophe would , doubtless , distress him more than the loss of a limb -- eh , Irene ? '' 
She looked , at him , betraying neither surprise nor regret . 
He mused a moment , watching her furtively . 
She smiled suddenly , strangely , yet with no tinge of bitterness . 
`` Hush , Irene ! 
Again she smiled , and laid her hand on his . 
She had caught up her reins , but paused , looking at him . 
Turning from the town , she took a narrow sandy road leading among low , irregular hills , and after passing a thicket of sweet-gum , bay , and poplar , that bordered a clear , brawling , rocky-bosomed stream which ran across the road , she rode up to a three-roomed log-house . 
She gave him her bridle and entered the house , in one of the rooms of which she found a tall , muscular , powerful-looking woman kneeling on the floor , and engaged in cutting out work from a roll of striped cloth . 
Putting her grayish hair behind her ears , she paused , looked up , and , with scissors in hand , said , bluntly : `` Be seated , Miss Irene . 
Lucinda , bring some water fresh from the spring , and if your grandmother is awake , tell her Miss Irene is here , '' `` I see you have not finished your contract , Mrs. Baker . '' 
I am a poor woman , Miss Irene , but no soul loves the Confederacy better than I do , or will work harder for it . 
You are not raising a company yourself , Miss Irene ? '' 
As the kneeling figure received the slip of paper she rose , and tears gathered in the large clear gray eyes . 
`` Thank you , Miss Irene ; it is very good of you to remember my poor old mother so constantly . 
As she went homeward a shadow fell upon her face -- a shadow darker than that cast by the black plume in her riding-hat -- and once or twice her lips writhed from their ordinary curves of beauty . 
Nearing the encampment she lowered her veil , but saw that dress-parade had been dismissed , and as she shook the reins and Erebus quickened his gallop , she found herself face to face with the colonel , who had just mounted his horse and was riding toward town . 
She looked at him , and bowed ; but , in passing , he kept his eyes fixed on the road before him , and in the duskiness his face seemed colder and more inflexible than ever . 
Such had been the manner of their occasional meetings since the interview at the factory , and she was not surprised that this , her first greeting , was disregarded . 
But Irene was not deceived ; she had learned to understand his nature , and knew that his bitterness of feeling and studied avoidance of herself betokened that the old affection had not been crushed . 
Struggling with the dictates of her heart , and a sense of the respect due to her father 's feelings , she passed a sleepless night in pacing the gallery of the observatory . 
Under all its painful aspects she patiently weighed the matter , and at sunrise next morning , throwing open the blinds of her room , she drew her rose-wood desk to the window , and wrote these words : `` Before you leave W -- , allow me to see you for a few moments . 
At the breakfast-table Irene opened a hasty missive from Salome , inviting her to be present at the presentation of the flag , and begging a few choice flowers for the occasion . 
what are you about , Irene ? '' 
`` And what have you elsewhere , Irene ? '' 
`` Irene , answer me one question , dear child : what does the future contain for you ? 
And , Irene , be sure to send me every drop of honey you can spare . 
This portrait of Irene had been painted soon after she left school , and represented only the face and bust rising out of a luminous purplish mist -- a face which might have served for Guido 's Aurora . 
The next moment Irene stood at the door ; he turned his head , and they were face to face once more . 
Her dress was of swiss muslin , revealing her dazzling shoulders and every dimple and curve of her arms . 
The glittering bronze hair was looped and fastened with blue ribbons , and from the heavy folds her favorite clematis bells hung quivering with every motion , and matching , in depth of hue , the violets that clustered on her bosom . 
On the white brow , with its marble-like gleam , `` pure lilies of eternal peace '' seemed resting , as Never had her extraordinary beauty so stirred his heart ; a faint flush tinged his cheek , but he bowed frigidly , and haughtily his words broke the silence . 
She crossed the room and stood before him , holding out both hands , while her scarlet lips fluttered perceptibly . 
Instead of receiving the hands he drew back a step , and crossed his arms proudly over his chest . 
She raised her fascinating eyes to his , folded her palms together , and , pressing them to her heart , said , slowly and distinctly : `` I heard that you were ordered to Virginia , to the post of danger ; and knowing to what risks you will be exposed , I wished to see you at least once more in this world . 
She paused , drooping her head , unable to meet his searching steady black eyes riveted upon hers ; and , drawing his tall athletic figure to its utmost height , he asked , defiantly : `` You sent for me through compassionate compunctions , then -- intending , at the close , to be magnanimous , and , in lieu of disdain , tell me that you pity me ? '' 
A numbing suspicion crossed her mind , blanching lip and cheek to the hue of death , and hardening her into the old statue-like expression . 
Had he , indeed , ceased to love her ? 
Had Salome finally won her place in his heart ? 
He saw , without comprehending , the instantaneous change which swept over her features , and regarded her with mingled impatience and perplexity . 
He bowed , and turned partially away , but paused irresolute , chained by that electrical pale face , which no man , woman , or child ever looked at without emotion . 
`` Irene , do you intend me to understand -- are you willing that I shall believe that , after all , I have an interest in your heart -- that I am more to you than you ever before deigned to let me know ? 
Oh , Irene ! 
God bless you , Irene ! 
`` Irene , how can you persuade yourself that it is your duty to obey an unjust and tyrannical decree , which sacrifices the happiness of two to the unreasonable vindictiveness of one ? '' 
He tightened his clasping arms , and exclaimed : `` Ah , Irene ! 
But you remember nothing but Chelonis ' filial obligations , forgetting all she owed , and all she nobly gave , Cleombrotus . 
Irene , before it is too late , have mercy on us both . '' 
`` Oh , Irene ! 
`` Irene , oblige me in what may seem a trifle ; unfasten your hair and let it fall around you , as I have seen it once or twice in your life . '' 
Irene , give me a likeness of yourself as you stand now , or , if you prefer it , have a smaller one photographed to-morrow from that portrait , and send it to me by express . 
Oh , Irene ! 
He watched the wonderful loveliness of face and form , till his pride was utterly melted ; and , sinking on his knees , he threw one arm around her waist , exclaiming : `` Oh , Irene ! 
But as he paused and struggled against his better nature , Irene 's holy face , as he saw it last , lifted in prayer for him , rose , angel-like , above all that mass of death and horrors . 
The sufferer was Irene 's father ; she was hundreds of miles away ; Russell set his lips firmly , and , riding up to the prostrate figure , dismounted . 
`` God pity Irene ! '' 
I do n't want my bones mixed here with other people 's ; and it will be some comfort to Irene to know that I am buried in sight of home . 
Break the news gently to Irene . 
Tell her I did my duty ; that will be her only comfort , and best . 
Tell her I fell in the thickest of the battle , with my face to Washington ; that I died gloriously , as a Huntingdon and a soldier should . 
Tell her I sent her my blessing , my love , and a last kiss . '' 
`` She is a brave child ; she will bear it , for the sake of the cause I died in . 
Take care of her , Arnold ; tell Eric I leave her to his guardianship . 
it is bitter to leave her . 
my golden-haired , beautiful Irene ! '' 
You know how I love her ; I promise you I will watch over her as long as I live . '' 
But if I could see her once more , to ask her not to remember my harshness -- long ago . 
You must tell her for me ; she will understand . 
I would rather take my place there beside him , than have to break this to Irene . 
what an awful shock for her ! 
She loves him with a devotion which I have rarely seen equalled . 
God only knows how she will bear it . 
If I were not so needed here , I would go to her to-morrow . '' 
As soon as the bandages were adjusted he walked away , and took from the inside pocket of the coat a heavy square morocco case containing Irene 's ambrotype . 
And , Colonel , be sure to tell her to tell Miss Irene that I kept my promise to her -- that I have not touched a drop of liquor since the day she talked to me before I went out to build Mr. Huntingdon 's gin-house . 
God bless her sweet , pure soul ! 
I believe she saved me from a drunkard 's grave , to fill that of a brave soldier . 
I know she will never let my Margaret suffer , as long as she lives . '' 
Andrew waited on horseback to carry to Irene the latest intelligence , and during the entire afternoon she paced the colonnade , with her eyes fixed on the winding road . 
Irene 's white face flashed as she read the despatch , and raising her hands , exclaimed : `` Oh , thank God ! 
Tediously time wore on ; the shadows on the lawn and terrace grew longer and thinner ; the birds deserted the hedges ; the pigeons forsook the colonnade and steps ; Paragon , tired of walking after Irene , fell asleep on the rug ; and the slow , drowsy tinkle of cow-bells died away among the hills . 
Far off to the east the blue was hidden by gray thunderous masses of rain-cloud , now and then veined by lightning ; and as Irene watched their jagged , grotesque outlines , they took the form of battling hosts . 
She recalled the phantom cloud-battle in the Netherlandish vision , and shuddered involuntarily as , in imagination , she `` Heard the heavens fill with shouting , and there raised a ghastly dew From the nations airy navies grappling in the central blue . '' 
Irene had earnestly endeavored to commit her father and Russell to the merciful care and protection of God , and to rest in faith , banishing apprehension ; but a horrible presentiment , which would not `` down '' at her bidding , kept her nerves strung to their utmost tension . 
As the night advanced , her face grew haggard and the wan lips fluttered ceaselessly . 
Russell she regarded as already dead to her in this world , but for her father she wrestled desperately in spirit . 
As they approached , Irene put out her hands wistfully . 
`` We have won a glorious victory , Irene , but many of our noble soldiers are wounded . 
she gasped . 
The gleaming arms were thrown up despairingly , and a low , dreary cry wailed through the stately old mansion as the orphan turned her eyes upon Nellie and Andrew -- the devoted two who had petted her from childhood . 
Judge Harris led her into the library , and his weeping wife endeavored to offer consolation , but she stood rigid and tearless , holding out her hand for the despatch . 
Irene sat at her window up-stairs , looking out upon the sombre soughing pines that rose like a cloud against the starry sky , while Grace and Salome walked about the room , crying spasmodically , and trying to utter something comforting to the still figure , which might have been of ivory or granite , for any visible sign of animation . 
After a time , when the bustle had ceased , when the carriages had withdrawn , and the hurried tread of many feet had subsided , Irene rose , and said : `` Grace , tell your father I wish to see him . '' 
`` Irene ! 
Irene ! '' 
As she accompanied Electra to the room prepared for her , on the night of her arrival , the latter asked , with ill-concealed emotion : `` Irene , can you tell me anything about Russell ? 
Irene placed the silver lamp on the table , and , standing in its glow , answered , quietly : `` He was wounded in the arm at Manassa , but retains command of his regiment , and is doing very well . 
Irene made no reply , and , watching her all the while , Electra asked : `` When did you see him last ? 
`` Oh , Irene ! 
Irene returned the caress , withdrew from the embrace , and passed to her own room . 
She would most certainly have cordially hated any other woman who stood between her and her cousin 's heart ; but before the nobility , the loftiness , the cool purity of Irene 's soul , her own restless spirit bowed down with emotions nearly akin to adoration . 
The solemn serenity of that pale brow awed and soothed the fevered , tumultuous nature of the artist ; and she had schooled herself to look upon her as Russell 's future wife -- with a pang of pain , it is true , but certainly with no touch of bitterness . 
She could endure that he should love so devotedly one who ministered at the shrine of Christian charity , and whose hands threw down , wherever she moved , the blessed largess of peace , contentment , and plenty . 
One ignorant of the absorbing love of the other for the man to whom she had given her heart long years ago ; and that other conscious of an undying affection , which she silently inurned in her own bosom . 
Electra was engaged in tearing off and rolling bandages , while Irene slowly scraped lint from a quantity of old linen , which filled a basket at her side . 
Neither had spoken for some time ; the sadness of their occupation called up gloomy thoughts ; but finally Electra laid down a roll of cloth , and , interlacing her slight fingers , said : `` Irene , as you sit there you remind me of the ` Cameo Bracelet . ' 
Electra watched the motion of her companion 's fingers , and in a rich , musical voice repeated the words , beginning : `` Irene , the women of the South must exereise an important influence in determining our national destiny ; and because I felt this so fully , I hurried home to share the perils , and privations , and trials of my countrywomen . 
`` But , Irene , if you could have foreseen all that Secession has cost you ? '' 
Irene , I confess I have a haunting horror of the influence of demagogues on our future . 
Electra had finished the bandages , and was walking slowly before the windows , and , without looking up from the lint , which she was tying into small packages , Irene answered : `` The safeguards will be found in the mothers , wives , and sisters of our land . '' 
`` All perfectly true , and very encouraging in the abstract ; but , Irene , how many women do you suppose sit down and ponder their individual responsibility ? '' 
She unwrapped an oval portrait , placed it on the mantle-piece , and , stepping back , fixed her gaze on Irene . 
`` Irene , I value this portrait above everything else save the original ; and , as I may be called to pass through various perils , I want you to take care of it for me until I come back to W -- . 
`` Irene , I hope to see Russell soon . 
One of Irene 's hands glided to her side , but she answered , composedly : `` He knows that he always has my best wishes ; but will expect no message . '' 
During the remainder of autumn Irene was constantly engaged in superintending work for the soldiers , in providing for several poor families in whom she was much interested , and in frequent visits to the plantation , where she found more than enough to occupy her mind ; and Eric often wondered at the admirable system and punctuality she displayed -- at the grave composure with which she discharged her daily duties , and the invariable reticence she observed with regard to her past life . 
Has Irene come home ? '' 
Irene 's pretty work-basket sat on the little mosaic table , close to the hearth ; and by its side lay a volume of Tennyson open at `` Locksley Hall , '' with a half-finished glove which she had been knitting that morning resting on the page . 
`` Irene ! 
`` Irene . '' 
When the meal was concluded , and they had returned to the library , Irene drew her table and basket near the lamp , and resumed her knitting . 
She rolled up the glove , put it in her basket , and rose . 
She brought the board , and they sat down to the most quiet and absorbing of all games . 
As she carefully replaced the ivory combatants in their box , Irene said : `` Uncle , you know that I have long desired and intended to go to Richmond , but various circumstances combined to keep me at home . 
She laid her hand gently on his whitening hair , and added , pleadingly : `` Do not oppose me , uncle Eric . 
His eyes filled instantly ; and , drawing her close to him , he exclaimed , tremulously : `` My dear Irene ! 
She rang for Willis , and , taking a taper from the stand , proceeded to light the small lamp which had been placed in readiness on the table . 
With its use her uncle had long been familiar . 
She wrapped a heavy black shawl around her shoulders , and , taking the lamp , went up to the observatory . 
The Army of the Potomac had fallen back to Yorktown when Irene reached Richmond ; and the preparations which were being made for the reception of the wounded gave melancholy premonition of impending battles . 
Dr. Arnold had been intrusted with the supervision of several hospitals , but gave special attention to one established with the funds contributed by the citizens of W -- , and thither Irene repaired on the day of her arrival . 
In reply to her inquiries , she was directed to a small room , and found the physician seated at a table , examining a bundle of papers . 
He had caught her hands eagerly to his lips , and held them like a vice . 
She lifted her sorrow-stricken face to his , and felt his tears fall thick on her silky hair . 
Irene , do n't look so dreary and hopeless ; it wrings my heart to see that expression on your mouth . 
`` You have been ill a long time , Irene , and have kept it from me . 
Again he drew her little hands to his granite mouth , and seemed to muse for a moment . 
As he expected , she glanced up at him , but refrained from comment . 
`` Yes , Irene -- he is a soulless scamp . 
Here is his cousin entirely devoted to him , loving him above everything else in this world , and yet he has not even paid her a visit , except in passing through to Yorktown with his command . 
She is a gifted woman , and would suit him exactly -- even better than my salamander , Salome . '' 
A startled , incredulous expression came into Irene 's large eyes , and gradually a look of keen pain settled on her features . 
She did not flinch from his glittering gray eye , and her grieved look deepened . 
Electra was agreeably surprised at the unusual warmth with which Irene received her , some hours later ; but little suspected why the lips lingered in their pressure of hers , or understood the wistful tenderness of the eyes which dwelt so fondly on her face . 
Having engaged a suite of rooms near the hospital , a few days sufficed for preliminary arrangements , and Irene was installed in a ward of the building to which she had requested Dr. Arnold to appoint her . 
It was not wonderful that the home-sick sufferers regarded them with emotions which trenched on adoration , or that often , when the pale thin faces lighted with a smile of joy at their approach , Irene and Electra felt that they had a priceless reward . 
Raving with delirium , a light-haired , slender boy of seventeen summers struggled to rise from his cot , and , grasping a corner of the calico quilt , stretched it toward Irene , who sat a few yards off , spreading a blister . 
Laying aside the ointment , she approached , and took the extended hand . 
She placed her pearly hand on his hot brow , and bent tenderly over him . 
He smiled contentedly ; and while her cold fingers wandered soothingly over his forehead , the long lashes fell upon his cheeks , and in delirious dreaming he muttered on of the conflict and incidents of carnage . 
From his entrance into the hospital he had fancied her his mother , and she fostered the only illusion which could gild the fleeting hours of his young life . 
His deeds of daring had won honorable mention from the brigade commander , and Irene had written to his mother , in a distant state , detailing the circumstances , and urging her to hasten to him . 
She put the glass to his trembling lips , and , as he drained it , tears trickled down the furrowed face . 
She gave him a powerful stimulant ; brought her port-folio to the side of the cot , and wrote at his dictation . 
As she folded the letter and closed the port-folio the surgeon entered , and went slowly from patient to patient -- speaking gently to some , and feeling cautiously at the wrists of others who slept . 
He sighed heavily , and she followed him into the passage . 
God bless you , Miss Irene ! 
As she returned to her post , Andrew came in with a pitcher of ice-water ; and after creeping across the room several times , arranging the covering on the cots , he unrolled his blankets on the floor , and laid himself down to sleep , within reach of his mistress ' hand . 
Before a small pine table , where stood numerous vials , Irene drew her chair , and , leaning forward , opened her pocket-bible , and rested her head on her hand . 
She heard the painful breathing of the old man , who had fallen into a heavy stupor , and as she sat reading her hand stole to his feeble pulse , pausing to count its fluttering . 
Twice she rose , administered the stimulants , and renewed the bottles at his feet , the mustard on his wasted wrists . 
Taking the skeleton hand in hers , she chafed it vigorously ; but sixty-three years had worn away the bonds of flesh , and the soul was near its exodus . 
Sorrowfully she watched the sharpening features , which five weeks of nursing had rendered singularly familiar ; and as she thought of the aged wife to be widowed , and the daughter orphaned , memories of her own father 's kisses stirred the great deeps of her spirit , and tears gathered in her calm eyes . 
Irene stooped over him , and , softly unbuttoning his shirt-collar , removed the hot bloody cloths from his lacerated shoulder , and replaced them with fresh folds of linen , cold and dripping . 
She poured out a glass of water and lifted his head , but he frowned , and exclaimed : `` I wo n't have it in a tumbler . 
She humored the whim , walked out of the room , and paused in the passage . 
As she did so , a dark form glided unperceived into a dim corner , and when she re-entered the room with the gourd of water the figure passed through the hall-door out into the night . 
He set his teeth hard , and shuddered violently ; and taking his fingers in hers , she found them clenched : `` Andrew ! '' 
`` Here I am , Miss Irene . '' 
The paroxysms were short , but so severe that occasionally she required Andrew 's assistance to hold the sufferer on his cot , and as they grew less frequent , she saw that his strength failed rapidly . 
Finally he fell into a troubled sleep , with one hand clutching her arm . 
As she knelt with her face up-turned , a soft warm palm was laid upon her forehead , and a low , sweet , manly voice pronounced in benediction : `` May the Lord bless you , Irene , and abundantly answer all your prayers . '' 
Irene , the peaceful look of your childhood has come back to your face . '' 
They had conversed in low , smothered tones , and now , gently unclasping young Walton 's fingers , which still grasped her arm , Irene went back to the old man 's pillow and bent over the ghastly-face , where the chill of death had already settled . 
The chaplain bowed his head , but no sound broke the sad silence ; and some moments after Irene laid her ivory fingers on the lids , and pressed them down over the glazed eyes . 
She drew the sheet over the face of the dead , and beckoning to the two soldiers who now stood near , silent and awe-struck , they took up the cot , and bore it into a small room adjoining . 
`` Ah , Irene ! 
She drew a chair near young Walton , and , seating herself , continued : `` It would be intolerable , but for the conviction that I sometimes save lives -- lives precious to friends and country . 
`` Irene , will my presence here aid or comfort you ? 
He left her to keep alone her solemn vigil ; and through the remaining hours of that starry June night she stirred not from the narrow cot -- kept her fingers on the sufferer 's fleeting pulse -- her eyes on his whitening face . 
About three o'clock he moaned , struggled slightly , and looked intently at her . 
She gave him some brandy , and found that he swallowed with great difficulty . 
He put out his arm as if to consign it to her care , and folded his hands together . 
Laying her hand on his brow , Irene slowly repeated a favorite psalm which had seemed to haunt his mind two days before -- that psalm of promise : `` The Lord is my Shepherd ; I shall not want . '' 
Whether he understood it now she never knew , but his fingers crept caressingly to her face , feebly stroking her cheek while she spoke , and when she concluded he seemed trying to recall something . 
A sick man a few yards off asked for some water , and as Irene received the tumbler from his hand he said , under his breath : `` He is worse to-night , is n't he , ma 'm ? '' 
She snuffed the candle and resumed her seat , and again silence reigned -- silence broken only by the deep breathing of the patients and the sudden jingle of the vials on the table , as a hungry mouse ran among them , to nibble at the open jar of simple cerate . 
Slowly a half-hour rolled away ; Irene could barely feel the faint pulsations at Willie Walton 's wrist , and as she put her ear to his lips a long , last shuddering sigh escaped him -- the battle of life was ended . 
Irene covered the noble head , the fair , handsome features , with her handkerchief , and , waking Andrew , pointed to the body -- left her own ward , and entered one beyond the passage . 
It was smaller , but similar in arrangement to the room where she had passed the night . 
There , in the centre of the room , with her head bowed on the table , sat , or rather leaned , Electra , slumbering soundly , with her scarlet shawl gathered about her shoulders -- her watch grasped in one hand , and the other holding a volume open at `` Hesperid-Æglé . '' 
Irene lifted the black curls that partially veiled the flushed cheek , and whispered : `` Electra , wake up ! 
She rose quickly , laid her hand on Irene 's , and looked searchingly at her . 
Above all things , Irene , suffer nobody to bolt into that room with the news -- keep her as quiet as possible . 
I have perfect confidence in Whitmore 's skill ; he will do all that I could , though I would not leave her if I did not feel it my duty to hurry to the battle-field . 
She shaded her face , and shuddered . 
Irene , look up -- tell me -- did Leonard know this ? 
It was thought that she contracted the disease in the crowded hospital ; and when delirium ensued , Irene temporarily relinquished her ward to other nurses , and remained at the boarding-house , in attendance on her friend . 
On Sabbath morning Irene learned that Russell 's command had joined in the pursuit ; and during that day and night , as the conflict drifted farther southward , and details became necessarily more meagre , her anxiety increased . 
Continually her lips moved in prayer , as she glided from Electra 's silent room to aid in dressing the wounds of those who had been disabled for further participation in the strife ; and , as Monday passed without the receipt of tidings from Dr. Arnold , she indulged the hope that this day would end the series of butcheries , and that Russell would escape uninjured . 
Irene was sitting at her bedside , rolling bandages , when the sudden , far-distant , dull boom of cannon , followed by the quick rattling of the window-panes , gave intimation that the long contest was fiercely renewed . 
Prophetic dread seized her ; the hideous To-Come scowled at her in the distance ; and , as the roll of cloth dropped from her fingers , she covered her eyes to shut out the vision of horror . 
At ten o'clock , having given a potion , and renewed the folds of wet linen on Electra 's head , Irene stole back to the window , and , turning the shutters , looked down the street . 
Here and there an anxious group huddled on the corners , with ears strained to catch every sound , and , while she watched , a horseman clattered at hard gallop over the paving-stones , reined up at the door of the boarding-house , swung himself to the sidewalk , and an instant after the sharp clang of the bell rang startlingly through the still mansion . 
Irene groaned , and leaned heavily against the window-facing ; and quick steps came up the stairway -- Martha entered , and held out a slip of paper . 
`` Miss Irene , Cyrus has just brought this . '' 
`` You are going to faint , Miss Irene ! 
Irene went to her own apartment , which adjoined Electra 's , put on her bonnet and veil , and , though the night was warm , wrapped a shawl about her . 
`` Irene , what does this mean ? 
Miss Irene , he was shot in the breast . '' 
Under ordinary circumstances , with no obstacles intervening , it was a long ride ; and to Irene the way seemed interminable . 
During the first hour utter silence reigned within the carriage , and then , as the driver paused to allow an ambulance to pass , Eric put his hand on his niece 's arm and said , tenderly : `` Irene , why did you deceive me so long ? 
The delay seemed intolerably long , and for the first time an audible moan escaped Irene just as Cyrus came back accompanied by a muffled figure . 
`` Irene , my child . '' 
She leaned out till her face nearly touched Dr. Arnold 's . 
He gave her his arm , and led her through the drizzling rain for some distance -- avoiding , as much as possible , the groups of wounded , where surgeons were at their sad work . 
She swept aside her long mourning veil , and gazed imploringly into his face . 
Tears filled his eyes , and , hastily averting his head , he raised the curtain of the tent and drew her inside . 
The tent was silent as a cemetery , and not a sound passed Irene 's white fixed lips as she bent down and looked upon the loved face , strangely beautiful in its pallid repose . 
Sinking softly on the floor of the tent , Irene rested her chin on her folded hands , and calmly watched the deep sleep . 
Irene was partially in the shade , but , as she leaned forward , a sudden , bewildered smile lighted his countenance ; he started up , and extended one arm . 
`` Irene ! 
She took the outstretched hand in both hers , and pressed her lips repeatedly upon it . 
She seated herself on the edge of the straw , laid her shawl in her lap , and lifting his head , rested it on the soft woollen folds . 
`` Oh , Irene ! 
Her fingers tenderly smoothed the black locks that clung to his temples , and bending down , she kissed his forehead . 
His uninjured arm stole up around her neck , drew her face to his , and his lips pressed hers again and again . 
Oh , Irene ! 
When I said bitterly , ifshe loved me as she should , she would level all barriers -- she would lay her hands in mine -- glorify my name by taking it as my wife , and thus defy and cancel the past . 
-- my brave , patient , faithful Irene ! '' 
He smiled triumphantly , and drew her hand caressingly across his cheek . 
Oh , Irene ! 
She saw that a paroxysm of pain had seized him . 
He silently endured his suffering for some moments , and , raising his eyes again to Irene 's , said , in a tone of exhaustion : `` It is selfish to make you witness my torture ; but I could not bear to have you leave me . 
Irene , she is alone in the world ; watch over and love her , for my sake . 
As the hemorrhage increased despite their efforts to staunch it , he became rapidly weaker , and soon after , with one hand locked in Irene 's , he fell asleep . 
She sat motionless , supporting his head , uttering no sound , keeping her eyes fixed on his upturned countenance . 
Gradually a tranquil expression settled on his features , and as his eyes closed again he murmured , faintly : `` Irene -- darling -- raise me a little . '' 
`` Irene ! '' 
`` Irene , stand in the light , where I can see you fully . 
Irene bent down and kissed her companion tremulously , saying , slowly : `` He desired me to kiss you for him . 
She sprang up , but a death-like pallor overspread her face , and she tottered to the open window . 
Irene followed the thin figure , and , putting her arms about her , made her lean against her . 
The form reeled , drooped , shivered , and fell back insensible in Irene 's arms . 
So heavy was the swoon , that it seemed as if her spirit had fled to join her cousin 's in endless union ; but at length consciousness returned , and with it came the woful realization of her loss . 
A long , low wail rose and fell upon the air , like the cry from lips of feeble , suffering , helpless children , and her head sank upon the shoulder of the sad-faced nurse , whose grief could find no expression in sobs , or moans , or tears . 
Very tenderly and caressingly Irene endeavored to soothe her -- detailed the circumstances of her cousin 's death , and pointed her despairing soul to a final reunion . 
But no rift appeared in the artist 's black sky of sorrow ; she had not yet learned that , in drawing near the hand that holds the rod , the blow is lightened ; and she bitterly demanded of her Maker to be released from the burden of life . 
The extension of the Conscription statute had , several months before , deprived Irene of a valued and trusty overseer ; and to satisfy herself concerning the character of his successor , and the condition of affairs at home , she and her uncle had returned to W -- , bringing Electra with them . 
Irene stood on the colonnade , leaning over the back of Eric Mitchell 's arm-chair , dropping crumbs for the pigeons that cooed and scrambled at her feet , and looking dreamily down the avenue at the band of orphans who had just paid her a visit , and were returning to the asylum , convoyed by the matron . 
`` What contented-looking , merry little children those are , '' said her uncle , watching the small figures diminish as they threaded the avenue . 
She gave him her arm to the library-door , saw him seated comfortably at the table , where the doctor was examining a mass of papers , then joined Electra in the parlor . 
Yours , Irene . 
asked Irene , whose interest in the picture was scarcely inferior to that of its creator . 
After all , Irene , the joy of success does not equal that which attends the patient working . 
Oh , Irene ! 
Irene , my calm , sweet , patient guide , teach me to be more like you . '' 
The eyes of the artist went back to the stainless robes and seraphic face of her pictured Peace in the loved `` Modern Macaria , '' and , as she resumed her work , her brow cleared , the countenance kindled as in days of yore , bitter memories hushed their moans and fell asleep at the wizard touch of her profession , and the stormy , stricken soul found balm and rest in Heaven-appointed Labor . 
Standing at the back of Electra 's chair , with one hand resting on her shoulder , Irene raised her holy violet eyes , and looked through the window toward the cemetery , where glittered a tall marble shaft which the citizens of W -- had erected over the last quiet resting-place of Russell Aubrey . 
The rays of the setting sun gilded her mourning-dress , gleamed in the white roses that breathed their perfume in her rippling hair , and lingered like a benediction on the placid , pure face of the lonely woman who had survived every earthly hope ; and who , calmly fronting her Altars of Sacrifice , here dedicated herself anew to the hallowed work of promoting the happiness and gladdening the paths of all who journeyed with her down the chequered aisles of Time . 
