`` Tito Melema , '' said the stranger , slipping the ring from his finger , and presenting it to Cennini , whom Nello , not less rapid with his razor than with his tongue , had now released from the shaving-cloth . 
Tito Melema started and looked round with a pale astonishment in his face as if at a sudden accusation ; but Nello left him no time to feel at a loss for an answer : `` Piero , '' said the barber , `` thou art the most extraordinary compound of humours and fancies ever packed into a human skin . 
Tito , who had stood transfixed , with his long dark eyes resting on the unknown man who had addressed him so equivocally , seemed recalled to his self-command by Piero 's change of position , and , apparently satisfied with his explanation , was again giving his attention to Cennini , who presently said , -- `` This is a curious and a valuable ring , young man . 
`` Yes , indeed , '' said Tito , meeting the scrutiny very frankly . 
`` No fear of that , '' said Tito , beckoning a farewell , as he turned round his bright face at the door . 
But the family passions lived on in him under altered conditions : this descendant of the Bardi was not a man swift in street warfare , or one who loved to play the signor , fortifying strongholds and asserting the right to hang vassals , or a merchant and usurer of keen daring , who delighted in the generalship of wide commercial schemes : he was a man with a deep-veined hand cramped by much copying of manuscripts , who ate sparing dinners , and wore threadbare clothes , at first from choice and at last from necessity ; who sat among his books and his marble fragments of the past , and saw them only by the light of those far-off younger days which still shone in his memory : he was a moneyless , blind old scholar -- the Bardo de ' Bardi to whom Nello , the barber , had promised to introduce the young Greek , Tito Melema . 
When Maso opened the door again , and ushered in the two visitors , Nello , first making a deep reverence to Romola , gently pushed Tito before him , and advanced with him towards her father . 
`` Messer Bardo , '' he said , in a more measured and respectful tone than was usual with him , `` I have the honour of presenting to you the Greek scholar , who has been eager to have speech of you , not less from the report I made to him of your learning and your priceless collections , than because of the furtherance your patronage may give him under the transient need to which he has been reduced by shipwreck . 
His name is Tito Melema , at your service . '' 
Tito 's bright face showed its rich-tinted beauty without any rivalry of colour above his black sajo or tunic reaching to the knees . 
Nevertheless , she returned Tito 's bow , made to her on entering , with the same pale proud face as ever ; but , as he approached , the snow melted , and when he ventured to look towards her again , while Nello was speaking , a pink flush overspread her face , to vanish again almost immediately , as if her imperious will had recalled it . 
Tito 's glance , on the contrary , had that gentle , beseeching admiration in it which is the most propitiating of appeals to a proud , shy woman , and is perhaps the only atonement a man can make for being too handsome . 
`` I sailed last from Nauplia , '' said Tito ; `` but I have resided both at Constantinople and Thessalonica and have travelled in various parts little visited by Western Christians since the triumph of the Turkish arms . 
While Tito was speaking , some emotion passed , like a breath on the waters , across Bardo 's delicate features ; he leaned forward , put out his right hand towards Romola , and turned his head as if about to speak to her ; but then , correcting himself , turned away again , and said , in a subdued voice , -- `` Excuse me ; is it not true -- you are young ? '' 
`` I am three and twenty , '' said Tito . 
There was a slight pause before Tito 's answer came to the ear of Bardo ; but for Romola and Nello it commenced with a slight shock that seemed to pass through him , and cause a momentary quivering of the lip ; doubtless at the revival of a supremely painful remembrance . 
But , '' added Tito , after another slight pause , `` he is lost to me -- was lost on a voyage he too rashly undertook to Delos . '' 
Romola , who knew well what were the fibres that Tito 's voice had stirred in her father , felt that this new acquaintance had with wonderful suddenness got within the barrier that lay between them and the alien world . 
Three voices made a fugue of friendly farewells to Nello , as he retreated with a bow to Romola and a beck to Tito . 
The little burst of wrath , called forth by Nello 's unlucky quotation , had diverted Bardo 's mind from the feelings which had just before been hemming in further speech , and he now addressed Tito again with his ordinary calmness . 
`` Assuredly not , '' said Tito . 
`` There was such a record , '' said Tito , `` but it was lost , like everything else , in the shipwreck I suffered below Ancona . 
When Bardo made this reference to his daughter , Tito ventured to turn his eyes towards her , and at the accusation against her memory his face broke into its brightest smile , which was reflected as inevitably as sudden sunbeams in Romola 's . 
`` She is not really so cold and proud , '' thought Tito . 
But Tito was obliged to turn away , and answer Bardo 's question . 
But something doubtless I have retained , '' added Tito , with a modesty which was not false , though he was conscious that it was politic , `` something that might be of service if illustrated and corrected by a wider learning than my own . '' 
`` Among our hazardous expeditions , '' continued Tito , willing to prevent further questions on a point so personal , `` I remember with particular vividness a hastily snatched visit to Athens . 
said Bardo , interrupting Tito impetuously . 
`` Perdio , I have no affection for them , '' said Tito , with a shrug ; `` servitude agrees well with a religion like theirs , which lies in the renunciation of all that makes life precious to other men . 
cried Bardo , whose mind was now too thoroughly pre-occupied by the idea of the future book to attend to Tito 's further narration . 
Romola , who had watched her father 's growing excitement , and divined well the invisible currents of feeling that determined every question and remark , felt herself in a glow of strange anxiety : she turned her eyes on Tito continually , to watch the impression her father 's words made on him , afraid lest he should be inclined to dispel these visions of co-operation which were lighting up her father 's face with a new hope . 
And Tito was really very far from feeling impatient . 
My daughter '' -- turning to Tito -- `` has been very precious to me , filling up to the best of her power the place of a son . 
I have one or two intaglios of much beauty , '' said Tito , proceeding to draw from his wallet a small case . 
Tito understood her look and sign , and immediately withdrew his hand from the case , saying , in a careless tone , so as to make it appear that he was merely following up his last words , `` But they are usually in the keeping of Messer Domenico Cennini , who has strong and safe places for these things . 
Tito gave a slight , almost imperceptible start , and opened his long dark eyes with questioning surprise at Bardo 's blind face , as if his words -- a mere phrase of common parlance , at a time when men were often being ransomed from slavery or imprisonment -- had had some special meaning for him . 
But the next moment he looked towards Romola , as if her eyes must be her father 's interpreters . 
She , intensely pre-occupied with what related to her father , imagined that Tito was looking to her again for some guidance , and immediately spoke . 
Bardo had stretched out his aged white hand and Tito immediately placed his dark but delicate and supple fingers within it . 
Her eyes inevitably made a timid entreating appeal while she asked this , and Tito 's met them with soft brightness as he said , `` Assuredly , '' and , leaning forward , raised Bardo 's hand to his curls , with a readiness of assent which was the greater relief to her because it was unaccompanied by any sign of embarrassment . 
But there was an instantaneous change : Bardo let fall his hand , Tito raised himself from his stooping posture , and Romola rose to meet the visitor with an alacrity which implied all the greater intimacy , because it was unaccompanied by any smile . 
This , young man , '' he continued , while Tito rose and bowed , `` is one of the chief citizens of Florence , Messer Bernardo del Nero , my oldest , I had almost said my only friend -- whose good opinion , if you can win it , may carry you far . 
`` Ah , a Greek , as I augur , '' said Bernardo , returning Tito 's reverence but slightly , and surveying him with that sort of glance which seems almost to cut like fine steel . 
`` On the contrary , '' said Tito , with perfect good humour , `` it is most modestly free from polysyllabic pomp . 
My name is Tito Melema . '' 
''' During this short dialogue , Tito had been standing , and now took his leave . 
`` But come again at the same hour to-morrow , '' said Bardo , graciously , before Tito left the room , `` that I may give you Bartolommeo 's answer . '' 
Bardo was startled : the association of Tito with the image of his lost son had excluded instead of suggesting the thought of Romola . 
Bartolommeo Scala , secretary of the Florentine Republic , on whom Tito Melema had been thus led to anchor his hopes , lived in a handsome palace close to the Porta a Pinti , now known as the Casa Gherardesca . 
His arms -- an azure ladder transverse on a golden field , with the motto Gradatim placed over the entrance -- told all comers that the miller 's son held his ascent to honours by his own efforts a fact to be proclaimed without wincing . 
He was in this position on the day when he had granted the desired interview to Tito Melema . 
The May afternoon sun was on the flowers and the grass beyond the pleasant shade of the loggia ; the too stately silk lucco was cast aside , and a light loose mantle was thrown over his tunic ; his beautiful daughter Alessandra and her husband , the Greek soldier-poet Marullo , were seated on one side of him : on the other , two friends , not oppressively illustrious , and , therefore , the better listeners . 
It was not without reference to Tito 's appointed visit that the papers containing this correspondence were brought out to-day . 
After sufficient introductory talk concerning Tito 's travels , after a survey and discussion of the gems , and an easy passage from the mention of the lamented Lorenzo 's eagerness in collecting such specimens of ancient art to the subject of classical tastes and studies in general and their present condition in Florence , it was inevitable to mention Politian , a man of eminent ability indeed , but a little too arrogant -- assuming to be a Hercules , whose office it was to destroy all the literary monstrosities of the age , and writing letters to his elders without signing them , as if they were miraculous revelations that could only have one source . 
And Tito , who had just been looking into the Miscellanea , found so much to say that was agreeable to the secretary -- he would have done so from the mere disposition to please , without further motive -- that he showed himself quite worthy to be made a judge in the notable correspondence concerning the culex . 
Tito was ready , and scarified the epigram to Scala 's content . 
Enough : Tito took his leave under an urgent invitation to come again . 
His gems were interesting ; especially the agate , with the lusus naturæ in it -- a most wonderful semblance of Cupid riding on the lion ; and the `` Jew 's stone , '' with the lion-headed serpent enchased in it ; both of which the secretary agreed to buy -- the latter as a reinforcement of his preventives against the gout , which gave him such severe twinges that it was plain enough how intolerable it would be if he were not well supplied with rings of rare virtue , and with an amulet worn close under the right breast . 
But Tito was assured that he himself was more interesting than his gems . 
He had won his way to the Scala Palace by the recommendation of Bardo de ' Bardi , who , to be sure , was Scala 's old acquaintance and a worthy scholar , in spite of his overvaluing himself a little -LRB- a frequent foible in the secretary 's friends -RRB- ; but he must come again on the ground of his own manifest accomplishments . 
The interview could hardly have ended more auspiciously for Tito , and as he walked out at the Porta a Pinti that he might laugh a little at his ease over the affair of the culex , he felt that Fortune could hardly mean to turn her back on him again at present , since she had taken him by the hand in this decided way . 
One of these spectators was Tito Melema . 
Tito was looking alternately down on the scene below , and upward at the varied knot of gazers and talkers immediately around him , some of whom had come in after witnessing the commencement of the procession in the Piazza della Signoria . 
Tito had just turned his laughing face away from the whimsical painter to look down at the small drama going on among the chequered border of spectators , when at the angle of the marble steps in front of the Duomo , nearly opposite Nello 's shop , he saw a man 's face upturned towards him , and fixing on him a gaze that seemed to have more meaning in it than the ordinary passing observation of a stranger . 
It was a face with tonsured head , that rose above the black mantle and white tunic of a Dominican friar -- a very common sight in Florence ; but the glance had something peculiar in it for Tito . 
said Tito , hastily , but immediately added in a tone of disappointment , `` Ah , he has turned round . 
`` I seem to remember something about his face , '' said Tito . 
`` Ah , he 's gone into the Duomo now , '' said Tito , who had watched the figure eagerly . 
That standard , '' he continued , laying his hand familiarly on Tito 's shoulder , -- `` that carried on the horse with white trappings -- that with the red eagle holding the green dragon between his talons , and the red lily over the eagle -- is the gonfalon of the Guelf party , and those cavaliers close round it are the chief officers of the Guelf party . 
`` That is a goodly show of cavaliers , '' said Tito , who had learned by this time the best way to please Florentines ; `` but are there not strangers among them ? 
But you will see a finer show of our chief men by-and-by , Melema ; my brother himself will be among the officers of the Zecca . '' 
There come the ensigns of our subject towns and signories , Melema ; they will all be suspended in San Giovanni until this day next year , when they will give place to new ones . '' 
`` They are a fair sight , '' said Tito ; `` and San Giovanni will surely be as well satisfied with that produce of Italian looms as Minerva with her peplos , especially as he contents himself with so little drapery . 
The `` towers '' of which Tito spoke were a part of the procession esteemed very glorious by the Florentine populace ; and having their origin , perhaps , in a confused combination of the tower-shaped triumphal car which the Romans borrowed from the Etruscans , with a kind of hyperbole for the all-efficacious wax taper , were also called ceri . 
`` There go the Masters of the Zecca , and there is my brother -- you see him , Melema ? '' 
the trumpets of the Signoria : now comes the last stage of the show , Melema . 
That is our Gonfaloniere in the middle , in the starred mantle , with the sword carried before him . 
`` There is Messer Bernardo del Nero also , '' said Tito ; `` his visage is a fine and venerable one , though it has worn rather a petrifying look towards me . '' 
he added , patting Tito 's head . 
Tito had the youthful grace of blushing , but he had also the adroit and ready speech that prevents a blush from looking like embarrassment . 
He replied at once : -- `` And a very Pactolus it is -- a stream with golden ripples . 
If I were an alchemist -- '' He was saved from the need for further speech by the sudden fortissimo of drums and trumpets and fifes , bursting into the breadth of the piazza in a grand storm of sound -- a roar , a blast , and a whistling , well befitting a city famous for its musical instruments , and reducing the members of the closest group to a state of deaf isolation . 
During this interval Nello observed Tito 's fingers moving in recognition of some one in the crowd below , but not seeing the direction of his glance he failed to detect the object of this greeting -- the sweet round blue-eyed face under a white hood -- immediately lost in the narrow border of heads , where there was a continual eclipse of round contadina cheeks by the harsh-lined features or bent shoulders of an old spadesman , and where profiles turned as sharply from north to south as weathercocks under a shifting wind . 
But when it was felt that the show was ended -- when the twelve prisoners released in honour of the day , and the very barberi or race-horses , with the arms of their owners embroidered on their cloths , had followed up the Signoria , and been duly consecrated to San Giovanni , and every one was moving from the window -- Nello , whose Florentine curiosity was of that lively canine sort which thinks no trifle too despicable for investigation , put his hand on Tito 's shoulder and said , -- `` What acquaintance was that you were making signals to , eh , giovanemio ? '' 
`` Nello , amico mio , thou hast an intolerable trick of making life stale by forestalling it with thy talk , '' said Tito , shrugging his shoulders , with a look of patient resignation , which was his nearest approach to anger : `` not to mention that such ill-founded habbling would be held a great offence by that same goddess whose humble worshipper you are always professing yourself . '' 
Tito was soon down among the crowd , and , notwithstanding his indifferent reply to Nello 's question about his chance acquaintance , he was not without a passing wish , as he made his way round the piazza to the Corso degli Adimari , that he might encounter the pair of blue eyes which had looked up towards him from under the square bit of white linen drapery that formed the ordinary hood of the contadina at festa time . 
Tito had an innate love of reticence -- let us say a talent for it -- which acted as other impulses do , without any conscious motive , and , like all people to whom concealment is easy , he would now and then conceal something which had as little the nature of a secret as the fact that he had seen a flight of crows . 
such vague memories hang about the mind like cobwebs , with tickling importunity -- best to sweep the away at a dash : and Tito had pleasanter occupation for his thoughts . 
By the time he was turning out of the Corso degli Adimari into a side-street he was caring only that the sun was high , and that the procession had kept him longer than he had intended from his visit to that room in the Via de ' Bardi , where his coming , he knew , was anxiously awaited . 
He felt the scene of his entrance beforehand : the joy beaming diffusedly in the blind face like the light in a semi-transparent lamp ; the transient pink flush on Romola 's face and neck , which subtracted nothing from her majesty , but only gave it the exquisite charm of womanly sensitiveness , heightened still more by what seemed the paradoxical boy-like frankness of her look and smile . 
They were the best comrades in the world during the hours they passed together round the blind man 's chair : she was constantly appealing to Tito , and he was informing her , yet he felt himself strangely in subjection to Romola with that majestic simplicity of hers : he felt for the first time , without defining it to himself , that loving awe in the presence of noble womanhood , which is perhaps something like the workship paid of old to a great nature-goddess , who was not all-knowing , but whose life and power were something deeper and more primordial than knowledge . 
They had never been alone together , and he could frame to himself no probable image of love scenes between them : he could only fancy and wish wildly -- what he knew was impossible -- that Romola would some day tell him that she loved him . 
One day in Greece , as he was leaning over a wll in the sunshine , a little black-eyed peasant girl , who had rested her water-pot on the wall , crept gradually nearer and nearer to him , and at last shyly asked him to kiss , her , putting up her round olive cheek very innocently . 
Tito was used to love that came in this unsought fashion . 
-- and yet it was that topmost apple on which he had set his mind . 
He was in his fresh youth -- not passionate , but impressible : it was an inevitable that he should feel lovingly towards Romola as that the white irises should be reflected in the clear sunlit stream ; but he had no coxcombry , and he had an intimate sense that Romola was something very much above him . 
Nevertheless , Tito had had the rapid success which would have made some men presuming , or would have warranted him in thinking that there would be no great presumptioin in entertaining an agreeable confidence that he might one day be the husband of Romola -- nay , that her father himself was not without a vision of such a future for him . 
His first auspicious interview with Bartolommeo Scala had proved the commencement of a growing favour on the secretary 's part , and had led to an issue which would have been enough to make Tito decide on Florence as the place in which to establish himself , even if it had held no other magnet . 
It was finally agreed that Tito should be supported in a Greek chair , as Demetrio Calcondila had been by Lorenzo himself , who , being at the same time the affectionate patron of Politian , had shown by precedent that there was nothing invidious in such a measure , but only a zeal for true learning and for the instruction of the Florentine youth . 
Tito was thus sailing under the fairest breeze , and besides convincing fair judges that his talents squared with his good fortune , he wore that fortune so easily and unpretentiously that no one had yet been offended by it . 
He was not unlikely to get into the best Florentine society : society where there was much more plate than the circle of enamelled silver in the centre of the brass dishes , and where it was not forbidden by the Signory to wear the richest broacade . 
And that was not the whole of Tito 's good fortune ; for he had sold all his jewels , except the ring he did not choose to part with , and he was master of full five hundred gold florins . 
Yet the moment when he first had this sum in his possession was the crisis of the first serious struggle his facile , good-humoured nature had known . 
An importunate thought , of which he had till now refused to see more than the shadow as it dogged his footsteps , at last rushed upon him and grasped him : he was obliged to pause and decide whether he would surrender and obey , or whether he would give the refusal that must carry irrevocable consequences . 
It was in the room above Nello 's shop , which Tito had now hired as a lodging , that the elder Cennini handed him the last quota of the sum on behalf of Bernardo Rucellai , the purchaser of the two most valuable gems . 
As Cennini closed the door behind him , Tito turned round with the smile dying out of his face , and fixed his eyes on the table where the florins lay . 
He made no other movement , but stood with his thumbs in his belt , looking down , in that transfixed state which accompanies the concentration of consciousness on some inward image . 
If he were saying to himself , `` Tito will find me : he had but to carry our manuscripts and gems to Venice ; he will have raised money , and will never rest till he finds me out ? '' 
If that were certain , could he , Tito , see the price of the gems lying before him , and say , `` I will stay at Florence , where I am fanned by soft airs of promised love and prosperity : I will not risk myself for his sake ? '' 
Had not he , Tito , suffered ship-wreck , and narrowly escaped drowning ? 
He had good cause for feeling the omnipresence of casualties that threatened all projects with futility . 
What , probably enough , would be the result if he were to quite Florence and go to Venice ; get authoritative letters -- yes , he knew that might be done -- and set out for the Archipelago ? 
Why , that he should be himself siezed , and spend all his florins on preliminaries , and be again a destitute wandderer -- with no more gems to sell . 
Tito had a clearer vision of that result than of the possible moment when he might find his father again , and carry him deliverance . 
It would surely be an unfairness that he , in his full ripe youth , to whom life had hitherto had some of the stint and subjection of a school , should turn his back on promised love and distinction , and perhaps never be visited by that promise again . 
`` And yet , '' he said to himself , `` if I were certain -- yes , if I were certain that Baldassarre Calvo was alive , and that I could free him , by whatever exertions or perils , I would go now -- now I have the money : it was useless to debate the matter before . 
Tito did not say to himself so distinctly that if those two men had know the whole truth he was aware there would have been no alternative for him but to go in search of his benefactor , who , if alive , was the rightful owner of the gems , and whom he had always equivocally spoken of as `` lost , '' he did not say to himself , what he was not ignorant of , that Greeks of distinction had made sacrifices , taken voyages again and again , and sought help from crowned and mitred heads for the sake of freeing relatives from slavery to the Turks . 
This was his first real colloquy with himself : he had gone on following the impulses of the moment , and one of those impulses had been to conceal half the fact : he had never considered this part of his conduct long enough to face the consciousness of his motives for the concealment . 
It was true , the thought had crossed his mind several times since he had quitted Nauplia that , after all , it was a great relief to be quit of Baldassarre , and he would have liked to know who it was that had fallen overboard . 
Baldassarre was exacting , and had got stranger as he got older : he was constantly scrutinizing Tito 's mind to see whether it answered to his own exaggerated expectations ; and age -- the age of a thick-set , heavy-browed , bald man beyond sixty , whose intensity and eagerness in the grasp of ideas have long taken the character of monotony and repetiton , may be looked at from many points of view without being found attractive . 
But surely such memories were not absent from Tito 's mind ? 
Far in the backward vista of his remembered life , when he was only seven years old , Baldassarre had rescued him from blows , had taken him to a home that seemed like opened paradise , where there was sweet food and soothing caresses , all had on Baldassarre 's knee ; and from that time till the hour they had parted , Tito had been the one centre of Baldassarre 's fatherly cares . 
If he were silent when his father expected some response , still he did not look moody ; if he declined some labour -- why , he flung himself down with such a charming , half-smiling , half-pleading air , that the pleasure of looking at him made amends to one who had watched his growth with a sense of claim and possession : the curves of Tito 's mouth had ineffable good humour in them . 
Would any one have said that Tito had not made a rich return to his benefactor , or that his gratitude and affection would fail on any great demand ? 
He did not admit that his gratitude had failed ; but it was not certain that Baldassarre was in slavery , not certain that he was living . 
said Tito , inwardly , with a slight movement of his shoulders , the first he had made since he had turned to look down at the florins . 
When , the next morning , Tito put this determination into act he had chosen his colour in the game , and had given an inevitable bent to his wishes . 
he had made it impossible that he should not from henceforth desire it to be the truth that his father was dead ; impossible that he should not be tempted to baseness rather than that the precise facts of his conduct should not ramain for ever concealed . 
Hitherto Tito had left in vague indecision the question whether , with the means in his power , he would not return , and ascertain his father 's fate ; he had now made a definite excuse to himself for not taking that course ; he had avowed to himself a choice which he would have been ashamed to avow to others , and which would have made him ashamed in the resurgent presence of his father . 
But the inward shame , the reflex of that outward law which the great heart of mankind makes for every individual man , a reflex which will exist even in the absence of the sympathetic impulses that need no law , but rush to the deed of fidelity and pity as inevitably as the brute mother shields her young from the attack of the hereditary enemy -- that inward shame was showing its blushes in Tito 's determined assertion to himself that his father was dead , or that at least search was hopeless . 
On the day of San Giovanni it was already three weeks ago that Tito had handed his florins to cennini , and we have seen that as he set out towards the via de ' Bardi he showed all the outward signs of a mind at ease . 
He never jarred with what was immediately around him , and his nature was too joyous , too unapprehensive , for the hidden and the distant to grasp him in the shape of a dread . 
As he turned out of the hot sunshine into the shelter of a narrow street , took off the black cloth berretta , or simple cap with upturned lappet , which just crowned his brown curls , pushing his hair and tossing his head backward to court the cooler air , there was no brand of duplicity on his brow ; neither was there any stamp of candour : it was simply a finely formed , square , smooth young brow . 
And the slow absent glance he cast around at the upper windows of the houses and neither more dissimulation in it , nor more ingenuousness , than belongs to a youthful well-opened eyelid with its unwearied breadth of gaze ; to perfectly pellucid lenses ; to the undimmed dark of a rich brown iris ; and to a pure ceruleantinted angle of whiteness streaked with the delicat shadows of long eyelashes . 
Was it that Tito 's face attracted or repelled according to the mental attitude of of the observer ? 
The strong , unmistakable expression in his whole air and person was a negative one , and it was perfectly veracious ; it declared the absence of any uneasy claim , any restless vanity , and it made the admiration that followed him as he passed among the troop of holiday-makers a thoroughly willing tribute . 
As Tito entered the neighbourhood of San Martino , he found the throng rather denser ; and near the hostelry of the Bertucce , or Baboons , there was evidently some object which was arresting the passengers and forming them into a knot . 
It needed nothing of great interest to draw aside passengers unfreighted with a purpose , and Tito was preparing to turn aside into an adjoining street , when , amidst the loud laughter , his ear discerned a distressed childish voice crying , `` Loose me ! 
which at once determined him to push his way into the knot of gazers . 
He had just had time to perceive that the distressed voice came from a young contadina , whose white hood had fallen off in the struggle to get her hands free from the grasp of a man in the parti-coloured dress of a cerretano , or conjuror , who was making laughing attempts to soothe and cajole her , evidently carrying with him the amused sympathy of the spectators , who by a persuasive variety of words , signifying simpleton , for which the Florentine dialect is rich in equivalents , seemed to be arguing with the contadina against her obstinacy . 
At the first moment the girl 's face was turned away , and he saw only her light brown hair plaited and fastened with a long silver pin ; but in the next , the struggle brought her face opposite to Tito 's , and he saw the baby features of Tessa , her blue eyes filled with tears , and her under-lip quivering . 
Tessa , too , saw him , and through the mist of her swelling tears there beamed a sudden hope , like that in the face of a little child , when , held by a stranger against its will , it sees a familiar hand stretched out . 
In an instant Tito had pushed his way through the barrier of bystanders , whose curiosity made them ready to turn aside at the sudden interference of this handsome young signor , had grasped Tessa 's waist , and had said , `` Loose this child ! 
A general laugh among the bystanders accompanied these last words of the conjuror , raised , probably , by the look of relief and confidence with which Tessa clung to Tito 's arm , as he drew it from her waist and placed her hand within it . 
She only cared about the laugh as she might have cared about the roar of wild beasts from which she was escaping , not attaching any meaning to it ; but Tito ' who had no sooner got her on his arm than he foresaw some embarrassment in the situation , hastened to get clear of observers , who , having been despoiled of an expected amusement , were sure to re-establish the balance by jests . 
Tito pushed his way vigorously towards the corner of a side street , a little vexed at this delay in his progress to the Via de ' Bardi , and intending to get rid of the poor little contadina as soon as possible . 
The next street , too , had its passengers inclined to make holiday remarks at so unusual a pair ; but they had no sooner entered it than he said , in a kind but hurried manner . 
Tito hurried along again : he Church of the Badia was not far off . 
They could enter it by the cloister that opened at the back , and in the church he could talk to Tessa -- perhaps leave her . 
it was an hour at which the church was not open ; but they paused under the shelter of the cloister , and he said , `` Have you no cousin or friend in Florence , my little Tessa , whose house you could find ; or are you afraid of walking by yourself since you have been frightened by the conjuror ? 
It would have been brutal to leave her , and Tito 's nature was all gentleness . 
He wished at that moment that he had not been expected in the Via de ' Bardi . 
`` I think I 'll go home , if you 'll take me , '' she said , in a half whisper , looking up at Tito with wide blue eyes , and with something sweeter than a smile -- with a child-like calm . 
`` Come , then little one , '' said Tito , in a caressing tone , putting her arm within his again . 
`` Out at the Por del Prato , '' said Tessa , moving along with a very fast hold on Tito 's arm . 
He did not know all the turnings well enough to venture on an attempt at choosing the quietest streets ; and besides , it occurred to him that where the passengers were most numerous there was , perhaps , the most chance of meeting with Monna Ghita and finding an end to his knight-errantship . 
So he made straight for Porta Rossa , and on to Ognissanti , showing his usual bright propitiatory face to the mixed observers who threw their jests at him and his little heavy-shod maiden with much liberality . 
Mingled with the more decent holiday-makers there were frolicsome apprentices , rather envious of his good fortune ; bold-eyed women with the badge of the yellow veil ; beggars who thrust forward their caps for alms , in derision at Tito 's evident haste ; dicers , sharpers , and loungers of the worst sort ; boys whose tongues were used to wag in concert at the most brutal street games : for the streets of Florence were not always a moral spectacle in those times , and Tessa 's terror at being lost in the crowd was not wholly unreasonable . 
When they reached the Piazza d'Ognissanti , Tito slackend his pace : they were both heated with their hurried walk , and here was a wider space where they could take breath . 
said Tito , smiling at her . 
`` It is a long while since you had your breakfast , Tessa , '' said Tito , seeing some stalls near , with fruit and sweetmeats upon them . 
Tito bought some apricots , and cakes , and comfits , and put them into her apron . 
`` Come , '' he said , `` let us walk on to the Prato , and then perhaps you will not be afraid to go the rest of the way alone . '' 
`` We will see , '' said Tito aloud ; and to himself he said , `` Here is a little contadina who might inspire a better idyl than Lorenzo de ' Medici 's Nencia da Barberino , that Nello 's friends rave about ; if I were only a Theocritus , or had time to cultivate the necessary experience by unseasonable walks of this sort ! 
It seemed not to have entered Tessa 's mind that there was any change in Tito 's appearance since the morning he begged the milk from her , and that he looked now like a personage for whom she must summon her little stock of reverent words and signs . 
On the border of this wide meadow Tito paused and said , `` Now , Tessa , you will not be frightened if I leave you to walk the rest of the way by yourself . 
He added this question in a soothing tone , as he saw her eyes widening sorrowfully , and the corners of her mouth falling . 
Then she looked up at him again , and said complainingly , -- `` I thought you would have some , and we could sit down under a tree outside the gate , and eat them together . '' 
`` Tessa Tessa , you little siren , you would ruin me , '' said Tito , laughing , and kissing both her cheeks . 
Tito could not help looking after her , and seeing her shoulders rise to the bursting sob , and the apricots fall -- could not help going after her and picking them up . 
It was very hard upon him : he was a long way off the Via de ' Bardi , and very near to Tessa . 
said Tito , looking at her as she sat eyeing the remains of the feast with an evident mental debate about saving them , since he had said he would not have any more . 
said Tito , smiling . 
`` Yes , you must go back to your kid , my Tessa , '' said Tito , rising , `` and I must go the other way . '' 
Tito had an unconquerable aversion to anything unpleasant , even when an object very much loved and desired was on the other side of it . 
He had risen early ; had waited ; had seen sights , and had been already walking in the sun : he was inclined for a siesta , and inclined all the more because little Tessa was there , and seemed to make the air softer . 
He lay down on the grass again , putting his cap under his head on a green tuft by the side of Tessa . 
That was not quite comfortable ; so he moved again , and asked Tessa to let him rest his head against her lap ; and in that way he soon fell asleep . 
Tessa sat quiet as a dove on its nest , just venturing , when he was fast asleep , to touch the wonderful dark curls that fell backward from his ear . 
She was too happy to go to sleep -- too happy to think that Tito would wake up , and that then he would leave her , and she must go home . 
Tito 's deeper sleep had broken into a doze , in whihc he felt himself in the Via de ' Bardi , explaining his failure to appear at the appointed time . 
The rising tears were checked by terror at this change in Tito 's voice . 
`` Look now , '' Tito went on , soothingly , opening the wallet that hung at his belt , `` here is a pretty charm that I have had a long while -- ever since I was in Sicily , a country a long way off . '' 
His wallet had many little matters in it mingled with small coins , and he had the usual difficulty in laying his finger on the right thing . 
He unhooked his wallet , and turned out the contents on Tessa 's lap . 
Among them was his onyx ring . 
he exclaimed , slipping it on the forefinger of his right hand . 
See , Tessa , '' he added , as he spread out the smaller articles , and selected the one he was in search of . 
Tessa obeyed with a tranquillizing sense that life was going to be something quite new , and that Tito would be with her often . 
`` And now you will give me a kiss , '' said Tito , economizing time by speaking while he swept in the contents of the wallet and hung it at his waist again , `` and look happy , like a good girl , and then -- '' But Tessa had obediently put forward her lips in a moment , and kissed his cheek as he hung down his head . 
cried Tito , laughing , pressing her round cheeks with his hands and crushing her features together so as to give them a general impartial kiss . 
It was enough for Tito is she did not cry while he ws present . 
The softness of his nature required that all sorrow should be hidden away from him . 
thought Tito , as he walked along . 
Just as Tito reached the Ponte Vecchio and the entrance of the Via de ' Bardi , he was suddenly urged back towards the angle of the intersecting streets . 
Tito had been walking , as his manner was , with the thumb of his right hand resting in his belt ; and as he was thus forced to pause , and was looking carelessly at the passing cavaliers , he felt a very thin cold hand laid on his . 
He started round , and saw the Dominican friar whose upturned face had so struck him in the morning . 
Seen closer , the face looked more evidently worn by sickness and not by age ; and again it brought some strong but indefinite reminiscences to Tito . 
`` Pardon me , but -- from your face and your ring , '' -- said the friar , in a faint voice , `` is not your name Tito Melema ? '' 
`` Yes , '' said Tito , also speaking faintly , doubly jarred by the cold touch and the mystery . 
The friar put his hand under his scapulary , and drawing out a small linen bag which hung round his neck , took from it a bit of parchment , doubled and stuck firmly together with some black adhesive substance , and placed it in Tito 's hand . 
On the outside was written in Italian , in a small but distinct character -- `` Tito Melema , aged twenty-three , with a dark , beautiful face , long dark curls , the brightest smile , and a large onyx ring on his right forefinger . '' 
Tito did not look at the friar , but tremblingly broke open the bit of parchment . 
Tito looked round at the friar , but could only ask a question with his eyes . 
said Tito , with a bounding of the heart . 
The friar , whose voice had become feebler and feebler , sank down on the stone bench against the wall from which he had risen to touch Tito 's hand , adding , `` I am at San Marco ; my name is Fra Luca . '' 
When Fra Luca had ceased to speak , Tito still stood by him in irresolution , and it was not till , the pressure of the passengers being removed , the friar rose and walked slowly into the church of Santa Felicità , that Tito also went on his way along the Via de ' Bardi . 
`` If this monk is a Florentine , '' he said to himself -- `` if he is going to remain at Florence , everything must be disclosed . '' 
He felt that a new crisis had come , but he was not , for all that , too agitated to pay his visit to Bardo , and apologize for his previous non-appearance . 
Tito 's talent for concealment was being fast developed into something less neutral . 
It was still possible -- perhaps it might be inevitable -- for him to accept frankly the altered conditions , and avow Baldassarre 's existence ; but hardly without casting an unpleasant light backward on his original reticence as studied equivocation in order to avoid the fulfilment of a secretly recognized claim , to say nothing of his quiet settlement of himself and investment of his florins , when , it would be clear , his benefactor 's fate had not been certified . 
Tito had never had occasion to fabricate an ingenious lie before : the occasion was come now -- the occasion which circumstance never fails to beget on tacit falsity ; and his ingenuity was ready . 
For he had convinced himself that he was not bound to go in search of Baldassarre . 
Those ideas had all been sown in the fresh soil of Tito 's mind , and were lively germs there : that was the proper order of things -- the order of nature , which treats all maturity as a mere nidus for youth . 
Baldassarre had done his work , had had his draught of life : Tito said it was his turn now . 
After a long voyage , to spend months , perhaps years , in a search for which even now there was no guarantee that it would not prove vain : and to leave behind at starting a life of distinction and love : and to find , if he found anything , the old exacting companionship which was known by rote beforehand . 
Having once begun to explain away Baldassarre 's claim , Tito 's thought showed itself as active as a virulent acid , eating its rapid way through all the tissues of sentiment . 
His mind was destitute of that dread which has been erroneously decried as if it were nothing higher than a man 's animal care for his own skin : that awe of teh Divine Nemesis which was felt by religious pagans , and , though it took a more positive form under Christianity , is still felt by the mass of mankind simply as a vague fear at anything which is called wrong-doing . 
As Tito entered the outer cloister of San Marco , and inquired for Fra Luca , there was no shadowy presentiment in his mind : he felt himself too cultured and sceptical for that : he had been nurtured in contempt for the tales of priests whose impudent lives were a proverb , and in erudite familiarity with disputes concerning the Chief Good , which had after all , he considered , left it a matter of taste . 
Yet fear was a strong element in Tito 's nature -- the fear of what he believed or saw was likely to rob him of pleasure : and he had a definite fear that Fra Luca might be the means of driving him from Florence . 
Tito turned away with a sense of relief . 
`` This friar is not likely to live , '' he said to himself . 
Tito walked along wiht a light step , for the immediate fear had vanished ; the usual joyousness of his dispositioin reassumed its predominance , and he was going to see Romola . 
`` Welcome , Tito mio , '' said the old man 's voice , before Tito had spoken . 
Tito , paying his homage to Romola as he advanced , went , as his custom was , straight to Bardo 's chair , and put his hand in the palm that was held to receive it , placing himself on the corss-legged leather seat with scrolled ends , close to Bardo 's elbow . 
Bardo had already addressed Tito in this way once or twice of late . 
For my mind , as I have often said , was shut up as by a dam ; the plenteous waters lay dark and motionless , but you , my Tito , have opened a duct for them , and they rush forward with a force that surprises myself . 
You mark what I am saying , Tito ? '' 
Tito might have been excused for shrugging his shoulders at the prospect before him , but he was not naturally impatient ; moreover , he had been bred up in that laborious erudition , at once minute and copious , which was the chief intellectual task of the age ; and with Romola near , he was floated along by waves of agreeable sensation that made everything seem easy . 
Wherefore , my Tito , I think it not well that we should let slip the occasion that lies under our hands . 
Tito rose at the same moment with Romola , saying , `` I will reach them , if you will pint them out , '' and followed her hastily into the adjoining small room , where the walls were also covered with ranges of books in perfect order . 
Tito stood by her without hastening to reach the books . 
`` I hope , '' she continued , turning her eyes full on Tito , with a look grave confidence -- `` I hope he will not weary you ; this work makes hom so happy . '' 
His speech was the softest murmur , and he dark beautiful face , nearer to hers than it had evern been before , was looking at her with beseching tenderness . 
`` I do love you , '' murmured Romola ; she looked at him with the same simple majesty as ever , but her voice had never in her life before sunk to that murmur . 
Quick as lightning after that , Tito set his foot on a projecting ledge of the bookshelves and reached down the needful volumes . 
`` And now you will get your pen ready ; for , as Tito marks off the scholia we determine on extracting , it will be well for you to copy them without delay -- numbering them carefully , mind , to correspond with the numbers he will put in the text he will write . '' 
Romola always had some task which gave her a share in this joint work . 
Tito took his stand at the leggio , where he both wrote and read , and she placed herself at a table just in front of him , where she was ready to give into her father 's hands anything that he might happen to want , or relieve him of a volume that he had done with . 
They had always been in that position since the work began , yet on this day it seemed new : it was so different now for them to be opposite each other ; so different for Tito to take a book from her , as she lifted it from her father 's knee . 
Each woman creates in her own likeness the love-tokens that are offered to her ; and Romola 's deep calm happiness encompassed Tito like the rich but quiet evening light which dissipates all unrest . 
The figure was already too familiar to Tito to be startling , for Monna Brigida was a frequent visitor at Bardo 's , being excepted from the sentence of banishment passed on feminine triviality , on the ground of her cousinship to his dead wife and her early care for Romola , who now looked round at her with an affectionate smile , and rose to draw the leather seat to a due distance from her father 's chair , that the coming gush of talk might not be too near his ear . 
`` Yes , it is your cousin , '' said Monna Brigida , in an alert voice , raising her fingers smilingly at Tito , and then lifting up her face to be kissed by Romola . 
But it is true , Tito , that our manners have degenerated somewhat from that noble frugality which , as has been well seen in the public acts of our citizens , is the parent of true magnificence . 
said Bardo , in a loud agitated voice , while Romola half started from her chair , clasped her hands , and looked round at Tito , as if now she might appeal to him . 
Monna Brigida lifted her shoulders and her hands in mute dismay ; then she rose as quietly as possible , gave many signifcant nods to Tito and Romola , motining to them they were not to more , and stole out of the room like a culpable fat spaniel who has barked unseasonably . 
Meanwhile , Tito 's quick mind had been combining ideas with lightning-like rapidity . 
It was true that Bardo 's rigid will as a sufficient safeguard against any intercourse between Romola and her brother ; but not against the betrayal of what he knew to others , especially when the subject was suggested by the coupling of Romola 's name with that of the very Tito Melema whose description he had carried round his neck as an index . 
nothing but Fra Luca 's death could remove all danger ; but his death was highly probable , and after the momentary shock of the discovery , Tito let his mind fall back in repose on that confident hope . 
Tito , come and sit by me here . '' 
Tito moved from the reading-desk asnd seated him - self on the other side of Bardo , close to his left elbow . 
`` Tito , I never told you that I had once a son , '' said Bardo , forgetting what had fallen from him in the emotion raised by their first interview . 
Bardo paused , but neither Romola nor Tito dared to speak -- his voice was to tremulous , the poise of his feelings too doubtful . 
But he presently raised his hand and found Tito 's shoulder to rest it on , while he went on speaking , with an effort to be clamer . 
`` But you have come to me , Tito -- not quite too late . 
The old man , preoccupied with the governing interest of his life , was only thinking of the much - meditated book which had quite thrust into the back - ground the suggestion , raised by Bernardo del Nero 's warning , of a possible marriage between Tito and Romola . 
But Tito could not allow the moment to pass unused . 
`` Yes , father , '' and Romola , firmly , `` I love Tito -- I wish to marry him , that we may both be your children and nover part . '' 
Tito 's hand met hers in a strong clasp for the first time , while she was speaking , but their eyes were fixed anxiously on her father . 
Tito felt a disagreeable chill at this answer , for Bernardo del Nero 's eyes had retained their keen suspicion whenever they looked at him , and the uneasy remembrance of Fra Luca converted all uncertainty into fear . 
`` No , Tito , '' said Romola , '' my godfather will not oppose what my father firmly wills . 
And it is your will that I should marry Tito -- is it not ture , father ? 
It had never occurred to Romola that she should not speak as directly and emphatically of her love for Tito as of any other subject . 
And I have no will to resist thine ; rather , my heart met Tito 's entreaty at its very first utterance . 
Not so Tito 's . 
As Tito kissed Romola on their parting that evening , the very strength of the thrill that moved his whole being at the sense that this woman , whose beauty it was hardly possible to think of as anything but the necessary consequence of her noble nature , loved him with all the tenderness that spoke in her clear eyes , brought a strong reaction of regret that he had not kept himself free from that first deceit which had dragged him into the danger of being disgraced before her . 
It was the lazy afternoon time on the seventh of September , more than two months after the day on which Romola and Tito had confessed their love to each other . 
Tito , just descended into Nello 's shop , had found the barber stretched on the bench with his cap over his eyes ; one leg was drawn up , and the other had slipped towards the ground , having apparently carreid with it a manuscript volume of verse , which lay with its leaves crushed . 
Treading with the gentlest step , Tito snatched up the lute , and bending over the barber , touched the strings lightly while he sang , -- `` Quant ' è bella giovinezza , Che si fugge tuttavia ! 
here Nello stretched out his arms to their full length , and then brought them round till his hands grasped Tito 's curls , and drew them out playfully . 
`` That is but a tailor 's image of your sublime poet 's , '' said Tito , still letting his fingers fall in a light dropping way on the strings . 
Nello had already seized and flourished his comb , and pushed Tito gently backward into the chair , wrapping the cloth round him . 
`` Perhaps , '' said Tito , smiling , `` unless Messer Bernardo should next recommend Bardo to require that I should yoke a lion and a wild boar to the car of the Zecca before I can win my Alcestis . 
A slight electric shock passed through Tito as he rose from the chair , but it was not outwardly per - ceptible , for he immediately stooped to pick up the fallen book , and busied his fingers with flattening the leaves , while he said , `` No ; he was at Fiesole , I thought . 
Ah , '' he added , taking the book from Tito 's hands , `` my poor Nencia da Barberino ! 
said Tito , indifferenelty , settling his cap . 
Tito carried a little uneasiness with him on his visit , which ended earlier than he had expected , the boy-cardinal Giovanni de'Medici , youngest of red-hatted father , who has since presented his broad dark cheek very conspicuously to posterity as Pope Leo the Tenth , having been detained at his favourite pastime of the chase , and having failed to appear . 
Romola had not been bread up to devotional observances , and the occasions on which she took the air elsewhere than under the loggia on the roof of the house , were so rare and so much dwelt on beforehand , because of Bardo 's dislike to be left without her , that Tito felt sure there must have been some sudden and urgent ground for an absence of which he had heard nothing the day before . 
She saw him through her veil and hastened her steps . 
said Tito , turning to walk by her side . 
Tito 's heart gave a great bound , and began to beat violently . 
`` Romola , '' he said , in a lower tone , `` are you going to San Marco ? '' 
Romola put aside her veil for the sake of breathing the air , and he could see the subbued agitation in her face . 
`` Yes , Tito mio , '' she said , looking directly at him with sad eyes . 
`` Yes , '' said Tito , in a low tone . 
I am almost sure you will think I have chosen rightly , Tito , because I have noticed that you nature is less rigid than mine , and nothing makes you angry : it would cost you less to be forgiving ; though , if you had seen your father forsaken by one to whom he had given his chief love -- by one in whom he had planted ihs labour and his hopes -- forsaken when his need was becoming greatest -- even you , Tito , would find it hard to forgive . '' 
There war really some genuineness in those last words , and Tito looked very beautiful as he uttered them , with an unusual pallor in his face , and a slight quivering of his lip . 
Romola , interpreting all things largely , like a mind prepossessed with high beliefs , had a tearful brightness inher eyes as she looked at him , touched with keen joy that he felt so strongly whatever she felt . 
But without pausing in her walk , she said -- `` And now , Tito , I wish you to leave me , for the cugina and I shall be less noticed if we enter the piazza alone . '' 
-- make them feel while they live , say I -- '' No one made a scruple of interrupting Monna Brigida , and Tito , having just raised Romola 's hand to his lips , and said , `` I understand , I obey you , '' now turned away , lifting his cap -- a sign of reverence rarely made at that time by native Florentines , and which excited Bernardo del Nero 's contempt for Tito as a fawning Greek , while to Romola , who loved homage , it gave him an exceptional grace . 
He was half glad of the dismissal , half disposed to cling to Romola to the last moment in which she would love him without suspicion . 
For it seemed to him certain that this brother would before all things want to know , and that Romola would before all things confide to him , what was her father 's position and her own after the years which must have brought so much change . 
Fra Luca would tell all he knew and conjectured , and Tito saw no possible falsity by which he could now ward off the wrost consequence of his former dissimulation . 
It was all over with his prospects in Florence . 
There was Messer Bernardo del Nero , who would be delighted at seeing confirmed the wisdom of his advice about deferring the betrothal until Tito 's character and position had been established by a longer residence ; and the history of the young Greek professor whose benefactor was in slavery , would be the talk under every loggia . 
The moving crowd and the strange mixture of noises that burst on him at the entrance of the piazza , reminded Tito of what Nello had said to him about the Fierucoloni , and he pushed his way into the crowd with a sort of pleasure in the hooting and elbowing , that filled the empty moments , and dulled that calculation of the future which had so new a dreariness for him , as he foresaw himself wandering away solitary in pursuit of some unknown fortune , that his thought had even glanced towards going in search of Baldassarre after all . 
Tito , obliged to make his way through chance openings in the crowd , found himself at at one moment close to the trotting procession of barefooted , hard - heeled contadine , and could see their sun-dired , bronzed faces , and their strange , fragmentary grab , dim with hereditary dirt , and of obsolete stuffs and fashions , that made them look , in the eyes of the city people , like a way-worn ancestry returning from a pilgrimange on which they had set out a century ago . 
Among these Tito recognized his acquaintance Bratti , who stood with his back against a pillar and his mouth pursed up in disdainful silence , eyeing every one who approached him with a cold glance of superiority , and keeping his hand fast on a serge covering which concealed the contents of the basket slung before him . 
Rather surprised at a deportment so unusual in an anxious trader , Tito went nearer and saw two women go up to Bratti 's basket with a look of curiosity , whereupon the pedlar drew the covering tighter , and looked another way . 
It was quite too provoking , and one of the women was fain to ask what there was in his basket ? 
Bratti covered up his basket , which was now filled with miscellanies , probably obtained under the same sort of circumstances as the yarn , and , moving from his pillar , came suddenly upon Tito , who , if he had had time , would have chosen to avoid recognition . 
`` By the head of San Giovanni , now , '' said Bratti , drawing Tito back to the pillar ; `` this is a piece of luck . 
`` You speak in riddles , Bratti , '' said Tito . 
said Tito , looking at his ring and listening . 
Tito had lost no word of what Bratti had said , yet his mind had been very busy all the while . 
Why should he keep the ring ? 
It had been a mere sentiment , a mere fancy , that had prevented him from selling it with the other gems ; if he had been wiser and had sold it , he might perhaps have escaped that identification by Fra Luca . 
Tito had begun to dislike recognition , which was a claim from the past . 
This foreigner 's offer , if he would really give a good price , was an opportunity for getting rid of the ring without the trouble of seeking a purchaser . 
`` You speak with your usual wisdom , Bratti , '' said Tito . 
`` It is well , '' said Tito . 
Tito made a hasty sign of assent and adieu , and moving away from the pillar , again found himself pushed towards the middle of the piazza and back again , without the power of determining his own course . 
In this zigzag way he was carried along to the end of the piazza opposite the church , where , in a deep recess formed by an irregularity in the line of houses , an entertainment was going forward which seemed to be especially attractive to the crowd . 
There were the pale stars breaking out above , and the dim waving lanterns below , leaving all objects indistinct except when they were seen close under the fitfully moving lights ; but in this recess there was a stronger light , against which the heads of the encircling spectators stood in dark relief as Tito was gradually pushed towards them , while above them rose the head of a man wearing a white mitre with yellow cabalistic figures upon it . 
Tito heard him saying , `` behold your opportunity ! 
Tito thought he knew the voice , which had a peculiarly sharp ring , but the face was too much in shadow from the lights behind for him to be sure of the features . 
Stepping as near as he could , he saw within the circle behind the speaker an altar-like table raised on a small platform , and covered with a red drapery stitched all over with yellow cabalistical figures . 
Tito was sure now that he recognized the sharp upwardtending angles of the face under the mitre : it was that of Maestro Vaiano , the cerretano , from whom he had rescued Tessa . 
In the scuffle to seize the monkey 's string , Tito got out of the circle , and , not caring to contend for his place again , he allowed himself to be gradually pushed towards the church of the Nunziata , and to enter amongst the worshippers . 
In a chapel on the left hand of the nave , wreathed with silver lamps , was seen unveiled the miraculous fresco of the Annunciation , which , in Tito 's oblique view of it from the right-hand side of the nave , seemed dark with the excess of light around it . 
Tito 's glance wandered over the wide multitude in search of something . 
He had already thought of Tessa , and the white hoods suggested the possibility that he might detect her face under one of them . 
It was at least a thought to be courted , rather than the vision of Romola looking at him with changed eyes . 
But he searched in vain ; and he was leaving the church , weary of a scene which had no variety , when , just against the doorway , he caught sight of Tessa , only two yards off him . 
Tito felt an irresistible desire to go up to her and get her pretty trusting looks and prattle : this creature who was without moral judgments that could condemn him , whose little loving ignorant soul made a world apart , where he might feel in freedom from suspicions and exacting demands , had a new attraction for him now . 
He glanced cautiously round , to assure himself that Monna Ghita was not near , and then , slipping quietly to her side , kneeled on one knee , and said , in the softest voice , `` Tessa ! '' 
She turned her head and saw Tito 's face close to her : it was very much more beautiful than the Archangel Michael , who was so mighty and so good that he lived with the Madonna and all the saints and was prayed to along with them . 
She smiled in happy silence , for that nearness of Tito quite filled her mind . 
He lifted her from her knees , and led her out under the cloisters surrounding the atrium , which were then open , and not yet adorned with the frescoes of Andrea del Sarto . 
Tessa clung fast to Tito 's arm in satisfied silence , while he led her towards the stall where he remembered seeing the eatables . 
It was very pretty to see the guileless thing giving her cocoons into Tito 's hand , and then eating her berlingozzi with the relish of a hungry child . 
Tito had really come to take care of her , as he did before , and that wonderful happiness of being with him had begun again for her . 
Her hunger was soon appeased , all the sooner for the new stimulus of happiness that had roused her from her languor , and , as they turned away from the stall , she said nothing about going into the church again , but looked round as if the sights in the piazza were not without attraction to her now she was safe under Tito 's arm . 
said Tito , slipping his right arm round her , and looking down at her fondly . 
said Tessa , turning her face up to him , as he crushed her cheek with his left hand . 
Tito was conscious that some bystanders were laughing at them , and though the licence of street fun among artists and young men of the wealthier sort , as well as among the populace , made few adventures exceptional , still less disreputable , he chose to move away towards the end of the piazza . 
`` Perhaps I shall come again to you very soon , Tessa , '' he answered , rather dreamily , when they had moved away . 
He was thinking that when all the rest had turned their backs upon him , it would be pleasant to have this little creature adoring him and nestling against him . 
The absence of presumptuous self-conceit in Tito made him feel all the more defenceless under prospective obloquy : he needed soft looks and caresses too much ever to be impudent . 
He said nothing , but continued to look down at her with a dreamy gentleness , and Tessa felt herself in a state of delicious wonder ; everything seemed as new as if she were being carried on a chariot of clouds . 
Tito looked up too , and saw that he had unconsciously advanced to within a few yards of the conjuror , Maestro Vaiano , who , for the moment , was forsaken by the crowd . 
She crossed herself and looked up at Tito , but then , as if she had had time for reflection , said , `` It is because of the Natività . '' 
Meanwhile Vaiano had turned round , raising his hands to his mitre with the intention of changing his dress , when his quick eye recognized Tito and Tessa who were both looking at him , their faces being shone upon by the light of his tapers , while his own was in shadow . 
said Tito , softly , half enjoying the comedy , as he saw the pretty childish seriousness on her face , half prompted by hazy previsions which belonged to the intoxication of despair . 
Tito , disposed always to cultivate goodwill , though it might be the least select , put a piece of four grossi into his hand as he moved away , and was thanked by a look which , the conjuror felt sure , conveyed a perfect understanding of the whole affair . 
But Tito himself was very far from that understanding , and did not , in fact , know whether , the next moment , he should tell Tessa of the joke and laugh at her for a little goose , or whether he should let her delusion last , and see what would come of it -- see what she would say and do next . 
Tito felt the necessity of speaking now ; and , in the rapid thought prompted by that necessity , he saw that by undeceiving Tessa he should be robbing himself of some at least of that pretty trustfulness which might , by-and-by , be his only haven from contempt . 
`` Yes , my little Tessa , '' he said , caressingly , `` you must go back to the Madre ; but you must not tell her you are married -- you must keep that a secret from everybody ; else some very great harm would happen to me , and you would never see me again . '' 
She looked up at him with fear in her face . 
`` But you must not wear a betrothal ring , my Tessa , because no one must know you are married , '' said Tito , feeling some insistance necessary . 
They were now near the entrance of the church again , and she remembered her cocoons which were still in Tito 's hand . 
I must leave you now , '' said Tito , too fevered and weary to re-enter that stifling heat , and feeling that this was the least difficult way of parting with her . 
Tessa 's mind had never formed an image of his whereabout or his doings when she did not see him : he had vanished , and her thought , instead of following him , had stayed in the same spot where he was with her . 
`` I shall come back some time , Tessa , '' said Tito , taking her under the cloisters to the door of the church . 
She made a great effort over herself as she put up her lips to kiss him , and submitted to be gently turned round , with her face towards the door of the church . 
Tito saw her enter ; and then with a shrug at his own resolution , leaned against a pillar , took off his cap , rubbed his hair backward , and wondered where Romola was now , and what she was thinking of him . 
Poor little Tessa had disappeared behind the curtain among the crowd of contadine ; but the love which formed one web with all his worldly hopes , with the ambitions and pleasures that must make the solid part of his days -- the love that was identified with his larger self -- was not to be banished from his consciousness . 
Even to the man who presents the most elastic resistance to whatever is unpleasant , there will come moments when the pressure from without is too strong for him , and he must feel the smart and the bruise in spite of himself . 
Such a moment had come to Tito . 
There was no possible attitude of mind , no scheme of action by which the uprooting of all his newly-planted hopes could be made otherwise than painful . 
She hastened her steps , with nervous anxiety to be again with her father -- and with Tito -- for were they not together in her absence ? 
Tito , we know , was not with Bardo ; his destiny was being shaped by a guilty consciousness , urging on him the despairing belief that by this time Romola possessed the knowledge which would lead to their final separation . 
Early the next morning Tito was returning from Bratti 's shop in the narrow thoroughfare of the Ferravecchi . 
The Genoese stranger had carried away the onyx ring , and Tito was carrying away fifty florins . 
It did just cross his mind that if , after all , Fortune , by one of her able devices , saved him from the necessity of quitting Florence , it would be better for him not to have parted with his ring , since he had been understood to wear it for the sake of peculiar memories and predilections ; still , it was a slight matter , not worth dwelling on with any emphasis , and in those moments he had lost his confidence in fortune . 
The feverish excitement of the first alarm which had impelled his mind to travel into the future had given place to a dull , regretful lassitude . 
He cared so much for the pleasures that could only come to him through the good opinion of his fellow-men , that he wished now he had never risked ignominy by shrinking from what his fellowmen called obligations . 
Nay , children may be strangled , but deeds never : they have an indestructible life both in and out of our consciousness ; and that dreadful vitality of deeds was pressing hard on Tito for the first time . 
He was going back to his lodgings in the Piazza di San Giovanni , but he avoided passing through the Mercato Vecchio , which was his nearest way , lest he should see Tessa . 
But the largest and most important company of loungers was that towards which Tito had to direct his steps . 
Tito foresaw that it would be impossible for him to escape being drawn into the circle ; he must smile and retort , and look perfectly at his ease . 
But just at that time Tito felt a hand laid on his shoulder , and no amount of previous resolution could prevent the very unpleasant sensation with which that sudden touch jarred him . 
His face , as he turned it round , betrayed the inward shock ; but the owner of the hand that seemed to have such evil magic in it broke into a light laugh . 
He was a young man about Tito 's own age , with keen features , small close-clipped head , and closeshaven lip and chin , giving the idea of a mind as little encumbered as possible with material that was not nervous . 
`` Why , Melema , what evil dream did you have last night , that you took my light grasp for that of a sbirro or something worse ? '' 
said Tito , recovering himself immediately ; `` it must have been an extra amount of dulness in my veins this morning that shuddered at the approach of your wit . 
`` Messer Bernardo did me the honour to invite me , '' said Tito ; `` but I shall be engaged elsewhere . '' 
By the way , my bel erudito , '' continued Nello , as he saw Tito moving towards the door , `` here has been old Maso seeking for you , but your nest was empty . 
Tito 's heart gave a leap -- had the death happened before Romola saw him ? 
`` No , I had not heard it , '' he said , with no more discomposure than the occasion seemed to warrant , turning and leaning against the doorpost , as if he had given up his intention of going away . 
Tito felt that his fate was decided . 
Again his mind rushed over all the circumstances of his departure from Florence , and he conceived a plan of getting back his money from Cennini before the disclosure had become public . 
If he once had his money he need not stay long in endurance of scorching looks and biting words . 
He would wait now , and go away with Cennini and get the money from him at once . 
With that project in his mind he stood motionless -- his hands in his belt , his eyes fixed absently on the ground . 
Piero , who was leaning against the other doorpost , close to Tito , shrugged his shoulders : the frequent recurrence of such challenges from Nello had changed the painter 's first declaration of neutrality into a positive inclination to believe ill of the much-praised Greek . 
Tito , who had roused himself from his abstraction , and was listening to the dialogue , felt a new rush of the vague half-formed ideas about Tessa , which had passed through his mind the evening before : if Monna Ghita were really taken out of the way , it would be easier for him to see Tessa again -- whenever he wanted to see her . 
The contadina , with sudden energy , snatched off the encircling linen , when out struggled -- scratching , grinning , and screaming -- what the doctor in his fright fully believed to be a demon , but what Tito recognized as Vaiano 's monkey , made more formidable by an artificial blackness , such as might have come from a hasty rubbing up the chimney . 
Come , Melema , will you go too ? '' 
It had been precisely Tito 's intention to accompany Cennini , but before he had gone many steps , he was called back by Nello , who saw Maso approaching . 
She wished Tito to go to the Via de ' Bardi as soon as possible . 
Near one of those arched openings , close to the door by which he had entered the loggia , Tito awaited her , with a sickening sense of the sunlight that slanted before him and mingled itself with the ruin of his hopes . 
He had never for a moment relied on Romola 's passion for him as likely to be too strong for the repulsion created by the discovery of his secret ; he had not the presumptuous vanity which might have hindered him from feeling that her love had the same root with her belief in him . 
But as he imagined her coming towards him in her radiant majesty , made so loveably mortal by her soft hazel eyes , he fell into wishing that she had been something lower , if it were only that she might let him clasp her and kiss her before they parted . 
He had had no real caress from her -- nothing but now and then a long glance , a kiss , a pressure of the hand ; and he had so often longed that they should be alone together . 
They were going to be alone now ; but he saw her standing inexorably aloof from him . 
His heart gave a great throb as he saw the door move : Romola was there . 
It was all like a flash of lightning : he felt , rather than saw , the glory about her head , the tearful appealing eyes ; he felt , rather than heard , the cry of love with which she said , `` Tito ! '' 
And in the same moment she was in his arms , and sobbing with her face against his . 
The new image of death ; the strange bewildering doubt infused into her by the story of a life removed from her understanding and sympathy ; the haunting vision , which she seemed not only to hear uttered by the low gasping voice , but to live through , as if it had been her own dream , had made her more conscious than ever that it was Tito who had first brought the warm stream of hope and gladness into her life , and who had first turned away the keen edge of pain in the remembrance of her brother . 
She would tell Tito everything ; there was no one else to whom she could tell it . 
Proud and self-controlled to all the world beside , Romola was as simple and unreserved as a child in her love for Tito . 
She had been quite contented with the days when they had only looked at each other ; but now , when she felt the need of clinging to him , there was no thought that hindered her . 
Tito murmured with passionate fondness , as he clasped her gently , and kissed the thick golden ripples on her neck . 
He was in paradise : disgrace , shame , parting -- there was no fear of them any longer . 
This happiness was too strong to be marred by the sense that Romola was deceived in him ; nay , he could only rejoice in her delusion ; for , after all , concealment had been wisdom . 
The only thing he could regret was his needless dread ; if , indeed , the dread had not been worth suffering for the sake of this sudden rapture . 
Neither of them spoke ; they stood looking at each other 's faces with that sweet wonder which belongs to young love -- she with her long white hands on the dark-brown curls , and he with his dark fingers bathed in the streaming gold . 
The cold pressure of a new sadness on Romola 's heart made her linger the more in that silent soothing sense of nearness and love ; and Tito could not even seek to press his lips to hers , because that would be change . 
`` Tito , '' she said , at last , `` it has been altogether painful . 
`` I know , Romola -- I know he is dead , '' said Tito ; and the long lustrous eyes told nothing of the many wishes that would have brought about that death long ago if there had been such potency in mere wishes . 
`` So changed , Tito ! 
But the need she felt to disburden her mind to Tito urged her to repress the rising anguish . 
`` It was strange , Tito . 
The vision was about our marriage , and yet he knew nothing of you . '' 
Sit down and tell me , '' said Tito , leading her to the bench that stood near . 
A fear had come across him lest the vision should somehow or other relate to Baldassarre ; and this sudden change of feeling prompted him to seek a change of position . 
But when she was at the end of the vision , she paused ; the rest came too vividly before her to be uttered , and she sat looking at the distance , almost unconscious for the moment that Tito was near her . 
His mind was at ease now ; that vague vision had passed over him like white mist , and left no mark . 
But he was silent , expecting her to speak again . 
`` I took it , '' she went on , as if Tito had been reading her thoughts ; `` I took the crucifix ; it is down below in my bedroom . '' 
`` And now , my Romola , '' said Tito , entreatingly , `` you will banish these ghastly thoughts . 
`` No , Tito ; no . 
Oh , Tito ! 
Tito 's touch and beseeching voice recalled her ; and now in the warm sunlight she saw that rich dark beauty which seemed to gather round it all images of joy -- purple vines festooned between the elms , the strong corn perfecting itself under the vibrating heat , bright winged creatures hurrying and resting among the flowers , round limbs beating the earth in gladness with cymbals held aloft , light melodies chanted to the thrilling rhythm of strings -- all objects and all sounds that tell of Nature revelling in her force . 
`` Your mind lingers apart from our love , my Romola , '' Tito said , with a soft reproachful murmur . 
said Tito , with his bright smile . 
You would laugh at me , Tito , if you knew what sort of man I used to think I should marry -- some scholar with deep lines in his face , like Alamanno Rinuccini , and with rather grey hair , who would agree with my father in taking the side of the Aristotelians , and be willing to live with him . 
And then you came , Tito , and were so much to my father , and I began to believe that life could be happy for me too . '' 
said Tito , with a mixture of fondness and wondering admiration at the blended majesty and simplicity in her . 
`` Yes , Tito , I will , I do mind . 
`` I have no rancour against Messer Bernardo for thinking you too precious for me , my Romola , '' said Tito : and that was true . 
Your voice will soothe him , Tito ; it always does . '' 
I have not had one , '' said Tito , in his gentle reproachful tone , which gave him an air of dependence very charming in a creature with those rare gifts that seem to excuse presumption . 
`` There is something grim and grave to me always about Florence , '' said Tito , as they paused in the front of the house , where they could see over the opposite roofs to the other side of the river , `` and even in its merriment there is something shrill and hard -- biting rather than gay . 
`` No , Tito ; but I have dreamed of it often since you came . 
But we will not think of it now , Tito ; it seems to me as if there would always be pale sad faces among the flowers , and eyes that look in vain . 
When Tito left the Via de ' Bardi that day in exultant satisfaction at finding himself thoroughly free from the threatened peril , his thoughts , no longer claimed by the immediate presence of Romola and her father , recurred to those futile hours of dread in which he was conscious of having not only felt but acted as he would not have done if he had had a truer foresight . 
He would not have parted with his ring ; for Romola , and others to whom it was a familiar object , would be a little struck with the apparent sordidness of parting with a gem he had professedly cherished , unless he feigned as a reason the desire to make some special gift with the purchase-money ; and Tito had at that moment a nauseating weariness of simulation . 
He was well out of the possible consequences that might have fallen on him from that initial deception , and it was no longer a load on his mind ; kind fortune had brought him immunity , and he thought it was only fair that she should . 
Tito thought he should like some time to take her a present that would please her , and just learn if her step-father treated her more cruelly now her mother was dead . 
Tito had made up his mind that the silly little affair of the cerretano should have no further consequences for himself ; and people are apt to think that resolutions made on their own behalf will be firm . 
As for the fifty-five florins , the purchase-money of the ring , Tito had made up his mind what to do with some of them ; he would carry out a pretty ingenious thought which would make him more at ease in accounting for the absence of his ring to Romola , and would also serve him as a means of guarding her mind from the recurrence of those monkish fancies which were especially repugnant to him ; and with this thought in his mind , he went to the Via Gualfonda to find Piero di Cosimo , the artist who at that time was pre-eminent in the fantastic mythological design which Tito 's purpose required . 
Entering the court on which Piero 's dwelling opened , Tito found the heavy iron knocker on the door thickly bound round with wool and ingeniously fastened with cords . 
Remembering the painter 's practice of stuffing his ears against obtrusive noises , Tito was not much surprised at this mode of defence against visitors ' thunder , and betook himself first to tapping modestly with his knuckles , and then to a more importunate attempt to shake the door . 
Tito was moving away , blaming himself for wasting his time on this visit , instead of waiting till he saw the painter again at Nello 's , when a little girl entered the court with a basket of eggs on her arm , went up to the door , and standing on tiptoe , pushed up a small iron plate that ran in grooves , and putting her mouth to the aperture thus disclosed , called out in a piping voice , `` Messer Piero ! '' 
In a few moments Tito heard the sound of bolts , the door opened , and Piero presented himself in a red night-cap and a loose brown serge tunic , with sleeves rolled up to the shoulder . 
He darted a look of surprise at Tito , but without further notice of him stretched out his hand to take the basket from the child , re-entered the house , and presently returning with the empty basket , said , `` How much to pay ? '' 
`` Pardon , Messer Piero , '' said Tito , with his imperturbable good-humour ; `` I acted without sufficient reflection . 
The painter 's manners were too notoriously odd to all the world for this reception to be held a special affront ; but even if Tito had suspected any offensive intention , the impulse to resentment would have been less strong in him than the desire to conquer goodwill . 
`` And now , Messer Greco , '' said Piero , signing to Tito to sit down on a low stool near the door , and then standing over him with folded arms , `` do n't be trying to see everything at once , like Messer Domeneddio , but let me know how large you would have this same triptych . '' 
Tito indicated the required dimensions , and Piero marked them on a piece of paper . 
`` There 's nothing about the Ariadne there , '' said Tito , giving him the passage ; `` but you will remember I want the crowned Ariadne by the side of the young Bacchus : she must have golden hair . '' 
he added , looking down into Tito 's face . 
Tito laughed and blushed . 
said Tito , `` for if we have one likeness , we must have two . '' 
Piero turned the sketch , and held it towards Tito 's eyes . 
Tito , rather ashamed of himself for a sudden sensitiveness , strangely opposed to his usual easy self-command , said carelessly -- `` That is a subject after your own heart , Messer Piero -- a revel interrupted by a ghost . 
`` I will do my best , '' said Tito -- on this strong hint , immediately moving towards the door . 
`` I understand , '' said Tito , laughingly , lifting his hand in sign of friendly parting . 
Nevertheless , Bernardo himself , though he was as far as ever from any susceptibility to the personal fascination in Tito which was felt by others , could not altogether resist that argument of success which is always powerful with men of the world . 
Tito was making his way rapidly in high quarters . 
He was especially growing in favour with the young Cardinal Giovanni de ' Medici , who had even spoken of Tito 's forming part of his learned retinue on an approaching journey to Rome ; and the bright young Greek , who had a tongue that was always ready without ever being quarrelsome , was more and more wished for at gay suppers in the Via Larga , and at Florentine games in which he had no pretension to excel , and could admire the incomparable skill of Piero de ' Medici in the most graceful manner in the world . 
By an unfailing sequence , Tito 's reputation as an agreeable companion in `` magnificent '' society made his learning and talent appear more lustrous : and he was really accomplished enough to prevent an exaggerated estimate from being hazardous to him . 
To the old Florentine it was impossible to despise the recommendation of standing well with the best Florentine families , and since Tito began to be thoroughly received into that circle whose views were the unquestioned standard of social value , it seemed irrational not to admit that there was no longer any check to satisfaction in the prospect of such a son-in-law for Bardo , and such a husband for Romola . 
It was undeniable that Tito 's coming had been the dawn of a new life for both father and daughter , and the first promise had even been surpassed . 
But since Tito 's coming , there was no longer the same monotony in the thought that Bardo 's name suggested ; the old man , it was understood , had left off his plaints , and the fair daughter was no longer to be shut up in dowerless pride , waiting for a parentado . 
Elderly men came from that indefinite prompting to renew former intercourse which arises when an old acquaintance begins to be newly talked about ; and young men whom Tito had asked leave to bring once , found it easy to go again when they overtook him on his way to the Via de ' Bardi , and , resting their hands on his shoulder , fell into easy chat with him . 
and she seemed to unfold like a strong white lily under this genial breath of admiration and homage ; it was all one to her with her new bright life in Tito 's love . 
Tito had even been the means of strengthening the hope in Bardo 's mind that he might before his death receive the longed-for security concerning his library : that it should not be merged in another collection ; that it should not be transferred to a body of monks , and be called by the name of a monastery ; but that it should remain for ever the Bardi Library , for the use of Florentines . 
For the old habit of trusting in the Medici could not die out while their influence was still the strongest lever in the State ; and Tito , once possessing the ear of the Cardinal Giovanni de ' Medici , might do more even than Messer Bernardo towards winning the desired interest , for he could demonstrate to a learned audience the peculiar value of Bardi 's collection . 
Tito himself talked sanguinely of such a result , willing to cheer the old man , and conscious that Romola repaid those gentle words to her father with a sort of adoration that no direct tribute to herself could have won from her . 
`` Tito has always known that my life is bound up with my father 's , '' said Romola ; `` and he is better to my father than I am : he delights in making him happy . '' 
`` Now , godfather , '' said Romola , shaking her head playfully , `` as if it were only bright eyes and soft words that made me love Tito ! 
You know I love my father and you because you are both good ; and I love Tito , too , because he is so good . 
You know you must have been a very handsome youth , godfather '' -- she looked up with one of her happy , loving smiles at the stately old man -- `` you were about as tall as Tito , and you had very fine eyes ; only you looked a little sterner and prouder , and -- '' `` And Romola likes to have all the pride to herself ? '' 
`` However , it is well that in one way Tito 's demands are more modest than those of any Florentine husband of fitting rank that we should have been likely to find for you ; he wants no dowry . '' 
So it was settled in that way between Messer Bernardo del Nero , Romola , and Tito . 
And Tito set about winning Messer Bernardo 's respect by inquiring , with his ready faculty , into Florentine money-matters , the secrets of the Monti or public funds , the values of real property , and the profits of banking . 
`` You will soon forget that Tito is not a Florentine , godfather , '' said Romola . 
`` See how he is learning everything about Florence . '' 
`` it seems to me he is one of the demoni , who are of no particular country , child , '' said Bernardo , smiling . 
`` His mind is a little too nimble to be weighted with all the stuff we men carry about in our hearts . '' 
It was the high morning , but the merry spirits of the Carnival were still inclined to lounge and recapitulate the last night 's jests , when Tito Melema was walking at a brisk pace on the way to the Via de ' Bardi . 
Nevertheless , as they discussed , smiled , and gesticulated , they both , from time to time , cast quick glances around them , and at the turning towards the Lung ' Arno , leading to the Ponte Rubaconte , Tito had become aware , in one of these rapid surveys , that there was some one not far off him by whom he very much desired not to be recognized at that moment . 
His time and thoughts were thoroughly preoccupied , for he was looking forward to a unique occasion in his life : he was preparing for his betrothal , which was to take place on the evening of this very day . 
The ceremony had been resolved upon rather suddenly ; for although preparations towards the marriage had been going forward for some time -- chiefly in the application of Tito 's florins to the fitting-up of rooms in Bardo 's dwelling , which , the library excepted , had always been scantily furnished -- it had been intended to defer both the betrothal and the marriage until after Easter , when Tito 's year of probation , insisted on by Bernardo del Nero , would have been complete . 
But when an express proposition had come , that Tito should follow the Cardinal Giovanni to Rome to help Bernardo Dovizi with his superior knowledge of Greek in arranging a library , and there was no possibility of declining what lay so plainly on the road to advancement , he had become urgent in his entreaties that the betrothal might take place before his departure : there would be the less delay before the marriage on his return , and it would be less painful to part if he and Romola were outwardly as well as inwardly pledged to each other -- if he had a claim which defied Messer Bernardo or any one else to nullify it . 
Romola 's feeling had met Tito 's in this wish , and the consent of the elders had been won . 
And now Tito was hastening , amidst arrangements for his departure the next day , to snatch a morning visit to Romola , to say and hear any last words that were needful to be said before their meeting for the betrothal in the evening . 
It was not a time when any recognition could be pleasant that was at all likely to detain him ; still less a recognition by Tessa . 
And it was unmistakably Tessa whom he had caught sight of moving along , with a timid and forlorn look , towards that very turn of the Lung ' Arno which he was just rounding . 
As he continued his talk with the young Dovizi , he had an uncomfortable under-current of consciousness which told him that Tessa had seen him and would certainly follow him : there was no escaping her along this direct road by the Arno , and over the Ponte Rubaconte . 
But she would not dare to speak to him or approach him while he was not alone , and he would continue to keep Dovizi with him till they reached Bardo 's door . 
Yet Tito persevered and carried his companion to the door , cleverly managing his `` addio '' without turning his face in a direction where it was possible for him to see an importunate pair of blue eyes ; and as he went up the stone steps , he tried to get rid of unpleasant thoughts by saying to himself that after all Tessa might not have seen him , or , if she had , might not have followed him . 
But -- perhaps because that possibility could not be relied on strongly -- when the visit was over , he came out of the doorway with a quick step and an air of unconsciousness as to anything that might be on his right hand or his left . 
Our eyes are so constructed , however , that they take in a wide angle without asking any leave of our will ; and Tito knew that there was a little figure in a white hood standing near the doorway -- knew it quite well , before he felt a hand laid on his arm . 
It was a real grasp , and not a light , timid touch ; for poor Tessa , seeing his rapid step , had started forward with a desperate effort . 
But when he stopped and turned towards her , her face wore a frightened look , as if she dreaded the effect of her boldness . 
said Tito , with more sharpness in his voice than she had ever heard in it before . 
Tito was afraid of something worse than ridicule , if he were seen in the Via de ' Bardi with a girlish contadina looking pathetically at him . 
It would have softened a much harder heart than Tito 's to see the little thing advancing with her round face much paled and saddened , since he had parted from it at the door of the `` Nunziata . '' 
He lost no time in speaking as soon as she came near him . 
`` I thought , '' said Tessa , speaking in a whisper , and struggling against a sob that would rise immediately at this new voice of Tito 's -- `` I thought you would n't be so long before you came to take care of me again . 
Tito felt that he could not do otherwise than comfort her . 
Send her away -- yes ; that he must do , at once . 
He saw new trouble in the background , but the difficulty of the moment was too pressing for him to weigh distant consequences . 
`` Tessa , my little one , '' he said , in his old caressing tones , `` you must not cry . 
She looked up at him with trusting eyes , that still glittered with tears , sobbing all the while , in spite of her utmost efforts to obey him . 
Again he said , in a gentle voice : `` Promise me , my Tessa . '' 
There was no help for it ; he must turn and leave her without looking behind him to see how she bore it , for he had no time to spare . 
When he did look round he was in the Via de ' Benci , where there was no seeing what was happening on the bridge ; but Tessa was too trusting and obedient not to do just what he had told her . 
Yes , the difficulty was at an end for that day ; yet this return of Tessa to him , at a moment when it was impossible for him to put an end to all difficulty with her by undeceiving her , was an unpleasant incident to carry in his memory . 
But Tito 's mind was just now thoroughly penetrated with a hopeful first love , associated with all happy prospects flattering to his ambition ; and that future necessity of grieving Tessa could be scarcely more to him than the far-off cry of some little suffering animal buried in the thicket , to a merry cavalcade in the sunny plain . 
When , for the second time that day , Tito was hastening across the Ponte Rubaconte , the thought of Tessa caused no perceptible diminution of his happiness . 
He was well muffled in his mantle , less , perhaps , to protect him from the cold than from the additional notice that would have been drawn upon him by his dainty apparel . 
He leaped up the stone steps by two at a time , and said hurriedly to Maso , who met him , `` Where is the damigella ? '' 
Tito entered a room which had been fitted up in the utmost contrast with the half-pallid , half-sombre tints of the library . 
Tito kept his mantle round him , and looked towards the door . 
said Tito , as he took her hand and kissed it , still keeping his mantle round him . 
He could not help going backward to look at her again , while she stood in calm delight , with that exquisite self-consciousness which rises under the gaze of admiring love . 
said Tito , checking himself with the remembrance that the time might be short . 
`` I have brought something under my mantle , '' said Tito , smiling ; and throwing off the large loose garment , he showed the little tabernacle which had been painted by Piero di Cosimo . 
The painter had carried out Tito 's intention charmingly , and so far had atoned for his long delay . 
added Tito , taking her by the hand , and leading her towards the cabinet . 
A slight quiver passed across Romola 's face as Tito took hold of the crucifix . 
But she had no wish to prevent his purpose ; on the contrary , she herself wished to subdue certain importunate memories and questionings which still flitted like unexplained shadows across her happier thought . 
He opened the triptych and placed the crucifix within the central space ; then closing it again , taking out the key , and setting the little tabernacle in the spot where the crucifix had stood , said , `` Now , Romola , look and see if you are satisfied with the portraits old Piero has made of us . 
Yes , it is true , Tito ; you have crowned my poor life . '' 
Tito did not blench . 
Romola 's little illusions about himself had long ceased to cause him anything but satisfaction . 
He only smiled and said , `` I might have spared my ring ; Piero will accept no money from me ; he thinks himself paid by painting you . 
`` Tito mio ! '' 
said Tito , with playful decision , opening his scarsella and dropping in the little key . 
But Bardo , who in his poverty had kept himself proudly free from any appearance of claiming the advantages attached to a powerful family name , would have no invitations given on the strength of mere friendship ; and the modest procession of twenty that followed the sposi were , with three or four exceptions , friends of Bardo 's and Tito 's , selected on personal grounds . 
Bernardo del Nero walked as a vanguard before Bardo , who was led on the right by Tito , while Romola held her father 's other hand . 
But when the ceremony was over , and Tito and Romola came out on to the broad steps of the church , with the golden links of destiny on their fingers , the evening had deepened into struggling starlight , and the servants had their torches lit . 
`` It is one of their masqued processions , I suppose , '' said Tito , who was now alone with Romola , while Bernardo took charge of Bardo . 
She clung to Tito , who , divining what was in her thoughts , said -- `` What dismal fooling sometimes pleases your Florentines ! 
`` Tito , I wish it had not happened . 
said Tito . 
It was the seventeenth of November , 1494 : more than eighteen months since Tito and Romola had been finally united in the joyous Easter time , and had had a rainbow-tinted shower of comfits thrown over them , after the ancient Greek fashion , in token that the heavens would shower sweets on them through all their double life . 
Since that Easter time a great change had come over the prospects of Florence ; and as in the tree that bears a myriad of blossoms , each single bud with its fruit is dependent on the primary circulation of the sap , so the fortunes of Tito and Romola were dependent on certain grand political and social conditions which made an epoch in the history of Italy . 
At the close of 1492 , the year in which Lorenzo de ' Medici died and Tito Melema came as a wanderer to Florence , Italy was enjoying a peace and prosperity unthreatened by any near and definite danger . 
Tito Melema had become conspicuously serviceable in the intercourse with the French guests , from his familiarity with Southern Italy , and his readiness in the French tongue , which he had spoken in his early youth ; and he had paid more than one visit to the French camp at Signa . 
The lustre of good fortune was upon him ; he was smiling , listening , and explaining , with his usual graceful unpretentious ease , and only a very keen eye bent on studying him could have marked a certain amount of change in him which was not to be accounted for by the lapse of eighteen months . 
But Lorenzo Tornabuoni possessed that power of dissembling annoyance which is demanded in a man who courts popularity , and to Tito 's natural disposition to overcome ill-will by good-humour , there was added the unimpassioned feeling of the alien towards names and details that move the deepest passions of the native . 
There was soon an animated discussion , and it became highly amusing from the Frenchman 's astonishment at Piero 's odd pungency of statement , which Tito translated literally . 
It was a delightful moment for Tito , for he was the only one of the party who could have made so amusing an interpreter , and without any disposition to triumphant self-gratulation he revelled in the sense that he was an object of liking -- he basked in approving glances . 
It was Tito Melema who felt that clutch . 
He turned his head , and saw the face of his adoptive father , Baldassarre Calvo , close to his own . 
The two men looked at each other , silent as death : Baldassarre , with dark fierceness and a tightening grip of the soiled worn hands on the velvet-clad arm ; Tito , with cheeks and lips all bloodless , fascinated by terror . 
The first sound Tito heard was the short laugh of Piero di Cosimo , who stood close by him and was the only person that could see his face . 
`` Some madman , surely , '' said Tito . 
He hardly knew how the words had come to his lips : there are moments when our passions speak and decide for us , and we seem to stand by and wonder . 
The two men had not taken their eyes off each other , and it seemed to Tito , when he had spoken , that some magical poison had darted from Baldassarre 's eyes , and that he felt it rushing through his veins . 
`` It is not pleasant to be laid hold of by a madman , if madman he be , '' said Lorenzo Tornabuoni , in polite excuse of Tito , `` but perhaps he is only a ruffian . 
Tito went too : it was necessary that he should know what others knew about Baldassarre , and the first palsy of terror was being succeeded by the rapid devices to which mortal danger will stimulate the timid . 
Tito heard so far , but he was deaf to everything else till he was specially addressed . 
`` Will you go back with us , Melema ? 
Tito 's face had recovered its colour now , and he could make an effort to speak with gaiety . 
The party separated , and Tito took his way to the Palazzo Vecchio , where he was to find Bartolommeo Scala . 
It was not a long walk , but , for Tito , it was stretched out like the minutes of our morning dreams : the short spaces of street and piazza held memories , and previsions , and torturing fears , that might have made the history of months . 
Tito knew well how to interpret that : it meant that the vengeance was to be studied that it might be sure . 
If he had not uttered those decisive words -- `` He is a madman '' -- if he could have summoned up the state of mind , the courage , necessary for avowing his recognition of Baldassarre , would not the risk have been less ? 
He might have declared himself to have had what he believed to be positive evidence of Baldassarre 's death ; and the only persons who could ever have had positive knowledge to contradict him , were Fra Luca , who was dead , and the crew of the companion galley , who had brought him the news of the encounter with the pirates . 
The chances were infinite against Baldassarre 's having met again with any one of that crew , and Tito thought with bitterness that a timely , well-devised falsehood might have saved him from any fatal consequences . 
But to have told that falsehood would have required perfect self-command in the moment of a convulsive shock : he seemed to have spoken without any preconception -- the words had leaped forth like a sudden birth that has been begotten and nourished in the darkness . 
Tito was experiencing that inexorable law of human souls , that we prepare ourselves for sudden deeds by the reiterated choice of good or evil that gradually determines character . 
And -- Tito grasped at a thought more actively cruel than any he had ever encouraged before : might not his own unpremeditated words have some truth in them ? 
-- enough truth , at least , to bear him out in his denial of any declaration Baldassarre might make about him ? 
Tito shrank with shuddering dread from disgrace ; but he had also that physical dread which is inseparable from a soft pleasure-loving nature , and which prevents a man from meeting wounds and death as a welcome relief from disgrace . 
There was still one resource open to Tito . 
It was a characteristic fact in Tito 's experience at this crisis , that no direct measures for ridding himself of Baldassarre ever occurred to him . 
She fancied that his eyes had met hers in their first wandering gaze ; but Baldassarre had not , in reality , noted her ; he had only had a startled consciousness of the general scene , and the consciousness was a mere flash that made no perceptible break in the fierce tumult of emotion which the encounter with Tito had created . 
Images from the past kept urging themselves upon him like delirious visions strangely blended with thirst and anguish . 
Suddenly he felt himself vibrating to loud tones , which seemed like the thundering echo of his own passion . 
A voice that penetrated his very marrow with its accent of triumphant certitude was saying -- `` The day of vengeance is at hand ! '' 
But that sudden confusion had created a great opportunity for Tito . 
As one of the secretaries he was among the officials who were stationed behind the Signoria , and with whom these highest dignities were promiscuously thrown when pressed upon by the horses . 
But Gaddi , distrusting his own promptness , hung back , and pushing Tito , said , `` You , Melema . '' 
Tito stepped forward in an instant , and , with the air of profound deference that came as naturally to him as walking , said the few needful words in the name of the Signoria ; then gave way gracefully , and let the king pass on . 
No wonder Tito was popular : the touchstone by which men try us is most often their own vanity . 
Along those illuminated streets Tito Melema was walking at about eight o'clock in the evening , on his way homeward . 
He had been exerting himself throughout the day under the pressure of hidden anxieties , and had at last made his escape unnoticed from the midst of after-supper gaiety . 
Once at leisure thoroughly to face and consider his circumstances , he hoped that he could so adjust himself to them and to all probabilities as to get rid of his childish fear . 
If he had only not been wanting in the presence of mind necessary to recognize Baldassarre under that surprise ! 
Tito gave a slight start and quickened his pace , for the sounds had suggested a welcome thought . 
He knew that they came from the workshop of Niccolò Caparra , famous resort of all Florentines who cared for curious and beautiful iron-work . 
thought Tito . 
Tito darkened the doorway with a very different outline , standing in silence , since it was useless to speak until Niccolò should deign to pause and notice him . 
But in the meantime Tito had satisfied himself by a glance round the shop that the object of which he was in search had not disappeared . 
Niccolò gave an unceremonious but good-humoured nod as he turned from the anvil and rested his hammer on his hip . 
`` Well , then , to be plain with you , Niccolò mio , I want it myself , '' said Tito , knowing it was useless to try persuasion . 
`` I happen to have the money , '' said Tito , who had been winning at play the day before , and had not emptied his purse . 
`` There , then , '' he said , when the florins had been told down on his palm . 
Niccolò 's words had an unpleasant intensity of meaning for Tito . 
While Tito was hastening across the bridge with the new-bought armour under his mantle , Romola was pacing up and down the old library , thinking of him and longing for his return . 
`` Is not Tito coming to write ? '' 
Romola looked back on that hour with some indignation against herself , because even with the first outburst of her sorrow there had mingled the irrepressible thought , `` Perhaps my life with Tito will be more perfect now . '' 
It was not Tito 's fault , Romola had continually assured herself . 
It was true that before their marriage , and even for some time after , Tito had seemed more unwearying than herself ; but then , of course , the effort had the ease of novelty . 
The breath of sadness that still cleaved to her lot while she saw her father month after month sink from elation into new disappointment as Tito gave him less and less of his time , and made bland excuses for not continuing his own share of the joint work -- that sadness was no fault of Tito 's , she said , but rather of their inevitable destiny . 
If he stayed less and less with her , why , that was because they could hardly ever be alone . 
His caresses were no less tender : if she pleaded timidly on any one evening that he should stay with her father instead of going to another engagement which was not peremptory , he excused himself with such charming gaiety , he seemed to linger about her with such fond playfulness before he could quit her , that she could only feel a little heartache in the midst of her love , and then go to her father and try to soften his vexation and disappointment , while inwardly her imagination was busy trying to see how Tito could be as good as she had thought he was , and yet find it impossible to sacrifice those pleasures of society which were necessarily more vivid to a bright creature like him than to the common run of men . 
She herself would have liked more gaiety , more admiration : it was true , she gave it up willingly for her father 's sake -- she would have given up much more than that for the sake even of a slight wish on Tito 's part . 
Tito was really kinder than she was , better tempered , less proud and resentful ; he had no angry retorts , he met all complaints with perfect sweetness ; he only escaped as quietly as he could from things that were unpleasant . 
And Romola was urged to doubt herself the more by the necessity of interpreting her disappointment in her life with Tito , so as to satisfy at once her love and her pride . 
Tito had once thought that his love would make those sacrifices easy ; his love had not been great enough for that . 
resentment must not rise : all endurance seemed easy to Romola rather than a state of mind in which she would admit to herself that Tito acted unworthily . 
If she had felt a new heartache in the solitary hours with her father through the last months of his life , it had been by no inexcusable fault of her husband 's ; and now -- it was a hope that would make its presence felt even in the first moments when her father 's place was empty -- there was no longer any importunate claim to divide her from Tito ; their young lives would flow in one current , and their true marriage would begin . 
The laborious simple life , pure from vulgar corrupting ambitions , embittered by the frustration of the dearest hopes , imprisoned at last in total darkness -- a long seed-time without a harvest -- was at an end now , and all that remained of it besides the tablet in Santa Croce and the unfinished commentary on Tito 's text , was the collection of manuscripts and antiquities , the fruit of half a century 's toil and frugality . 
`` If the cardinal finds a building , as he seems to say he will , our Signoria may consent to do the rest . 
The times , she knew , were unpleasant for friends of the Medici , like her godfather and Tito : superstitious shopkeepers , and the stupid rabble , were full of suspicions ; but her new keen interest in public events , in the outbreak of war , in the issue of the French king 's visit , in the changes that were likely to happen in the State , was kindled solely by the sense of love and duty to her father 's memory . 
Her share in her father 's learned pursuits had been for her little more than a toil which was borne for his sake ; and Tito 's airy brilliant faculty had no attraction for her that was not merged in the deeper sympathies that belong to young love and trust . 
Changes in the form of the State were talked of , and all she could learn from Tito , whose secretaryship and serviceable talents carried him into the heart of public business , made her only the more eager to fill out her lonely day by going to hear for herself what it was that was just now leading all Florence by the ears . 
When Tito had left her , she had formed a sudden resolution , and after visiting the spot where her father was buried in Santa Croce , had walked on to the Duomo . 
She was conscious of being sometimes a little too sad or too urgent about what concerned her father 's memory -- a little too critical or coldly silent when Tito narrated the things that were said and done in the world he frequented -- a little too hasty in suggesting that by living quite simply as her father had done , they might become rich enough to pay Bernardo del Nero , and reduce the difficulties about the library . 
It was not possible that Tito could feel so strongly on this last point as she did , and it was asking a great deal from him to give up luxuries for which he really laboured . 
The next time Tito came home she would be careful to suppress all those promptings that seemed to isolate her from him . 
She waited and listened long , for Tito had not come straight home after leaving Niccolò Caparra , and it was more than two hours after the time when he was crossing the Ponte Rubaconte that Romola heard the great door of the court turning on its hinges , and hastened to the head of the stone steps . 
There was a lamp hanging over the stairs , and they could see each other distinctly as he ascended . 
The eighteen months had produced a more definable change in Romola 's face than in Tito 's : the expression was more subdued , less cold , and more beseeching , and , as the pink flush overspread her face now , in her joy that the long waiting was at an end , she was much lovelier than on the day when Tito had first seen her . 
On that day , any on-looker would have said that Romola 's nature was made to command , and Tito 's to bend ; yet now Romola 's mouth was quivering a little , and there was some timidity in her glance . 
He made an effort to smile , as she said , `` My Tito , you are tired ; it has been a fatiguing day : is it not true ? '' 
The wood was burning brightly on the great dogs ; that was one welcome for Tito , late as he was , and Romola 's gentle voice was another . 
He just turned and kissed her , when she took off his mantle , then went towards a high-backed chair placed for him near the fire , threw himself into it , and flung away his cap , saying , not peevishly , but in a fatigued tone of remonstrance , as he gave a slight shudder , `` Romola , I wish you would give up sitting in this library . 
She had never seen Tito so indifferent in his manner ; he was usually full of lively solicitous attention . 
`` I wonder you have forgotten , Tito , '' she answered , looking at him , anxiously , as if she wanted to read an excuse for him in the signs of bodily fatigue . 
Tito , instead of meeting Romola 's glance , closed his eyes and rubbed his hands over his face and hair . 
He felt he was behaving unlike himself , but he would make amends to-morrow . 
The terrible resurrection of secret fears , which , if Romola had known them , would have alienated her from him for ever , caused him to feel an alienation already begun between them -- caused him to feel a certain repulsion towards a woman from whose mind he was in danger . 
The feeling had taken hold of him unawares , and he was vexed with himself for behaving in this new cold way to her . 
He could not suddenly command any affectionate looks or words ; he could only exert himself to say what might serve as an excuse . 
`` Ah , you have had so much to tire you to-day , '' said Romola , kneeling down close to him , and laying her arm on his chest while she put his hair back caressingly . 
`` What have you got under your tunic , Tito ? 
`` It is iron -- it is chain armour , '' he said at once . 
He was prepared for the surprise and the question , and he spoke quietly , as of something that he was not hurried to explain . 
`` What is it that threatens you , my Tito ? '' 
said Romola , looking terrified , and clinging to him again . 
Tito put his hand on her neck and smiled . 
`` It is just because I am less important that I am in more danger , '' said Tito , readily . 
`` But , Tito , is it a fear of some particular person , or only a vague sense of danger , that has made you think of wearing this ? '' 
Romola was unable to repel the idea of a degrading fear in Tito , which mingled itself with her anxiety . 
`` I have had special threats , '' said Tito , `` but I must beg you to be silent on the subject , my Romola . 
But , dearest Tito , '' she added , after a moment 's pause , in a tone of loving anxiety , `` it will make you very wretched . '' 
It seems so unlike my bright , light-hearted Tito ! '' 
said Tito , smiling . 
`` No , Tito , no . 
First of all , the rain came and put an end to Luca Corsini 's oration , which nobody wanted to hear , and a ready-tongued personage -- some say it was Gaddi , some say it was Melema , but really it was done so quickly no one knows who it was -- had the honour of giving the Cristianissimo the briefest possible welcome in bad French . '' 
`` Tito , it was you , I know , '' said Romola , smiling brightly , and kissing him . 
Tito gave a shrug . 
Romola 's face saddened , but she checked herself , and said , cheerfully , `` You would not guess where I went to-day , Tito . 
Tito looked startled ; he had immediately thought of Baldassarre 's entrance into the Duomo : but Romola gave his look another meaning . 
`` Take care , Romola , '' said Tito , playfully , feeling relieved that she had said nothing about Baldassarre ; `` you have a touch of fanaticism in you . 
There was a slight pause before Tito spoke . 
But you want rest , Tito ? 
`` Yes , '' said Tito , rising . 
She lifted the iron slide and called Piero in a flute-like tone , as the little maiden with the eggs had done in Tito 's presence . 
But in lifting away this picture , he had disclosed another -- the oil-sketch of Tito , to which he had made an important addition within the last few days . 
But Romola exclaimed , flushing with astonishment , `` That is Tito ! '' 
But Romola , who had the fact of the armour in her mind , and was penetrated by this strange coincidence of things which associated Tito with the idea of fear , went to his elbow and said , -- `` Do n't put it away ; let me look again . 
What was it that made you put him into a picture with Tito ? '' 
He had shown a little too much anxiety in putting the sketch out of her sight , and had produced the very impression he had sought to prevent -- that there was really something unpleasant , something disadvantageous to Tito , in the circumstances out of which the picture arose . 
That look of terror which the painter had given Tito , had he seen it ? 
Shall I ask Tito about it ? '' 
`` Well , and Tito Melema may have a peculiar sensibility to being laid hold of unexpectedly by prisoners who have run away from French soldiers . 
Tito was born with an antipathy to old prisoners who stumble and clutch . 
There was a general laugh at Nello 's defence , and it was clear that Piero 's disinclination towards Tito was not shared by the company . 
Carried above the shoulders of the people , on a bench apparently snatched up in the street , sat Tito Melema , in smiling amusement at the compulsion he was under . 
His cap had slipped off his head , and hung by the becchetto which was wound loosely round his neck ; and as he saw the group at Nello 's door he lifted up his fingers in beckoning recognition . 
When the roar of insistance had subsided a little , Tito began again -- `` The Most Christian King demanded a little too much -- was obstinate -- said at last , ` I shall order my trumpets to sound . ' 
As the shouts rose again , Tito looked round with inward amusement at the various crowd , each of whom was elated with the notion that Piero Capponi had somehow represented him -- that he was the mind of which Capponi was the mouthpiece . 
Tito was beginning to get easier in his armour , and at this moment was quite unconscious of it . 
He stood with one hand holding his recovered cap , and with the other at his belt , the light of a complacent smile in his long lustrous eyes , as he made a parting reverence to his audience , before springing down from the bales -- when suddenly his glance met that of a man who had not at all the amusing aspect of the exulting weavers , dyers , and wool-carders . 
A single glance would hardly have sufficed to assure any one but Tito that this was the face of the escaped prisoner who had laid hold of him on the steps . 
But to Tito it came not simply as the face of the escaped prisoner , but as a face with which he had been familiar long years before . 
And Tito began to think that flight was his only resource . 
But while he , with his back turned on the Piazza del Duomo , had lost the recollection of the new part he had been playing , and was no longer thinking of the many things which a ready brain and tongue made easy , but of a few things which destiny had somehow made very difficult , the enthusiasm which he had fed contemptuously was creating a scene in that piazza in grand contrast with the inward drama of self-centered fear which he had carried away from it . 
The crowd , on Tito 's disappearance , had begun to turn their faces towards the outlets of the piazza in the direction of the Via Larga , when the sight of mazzieri , or mace-bearers , entering from the Via de ' Martelli , announced the approach of dignitaries . 
The feeling , in its freshness , was too strong to be overcome by any trust he had in the change he had made in his appearance ; for when the words `` some madman , surely , '' had fallen from Tito 's lips , it was not their baseness and cruelty only that had made their viper sting -- it was Baldassarre 's instantaneous bitter consciousness that he might be unable to prove the words false . 
It was as if Tito had been helped by some diabolical prompter , who had whispered Baldassarre 's saddest secret in the traitor 's ear . 
`` Was he so changed that Tito really did not know him ? '' 
But the doubt was folly : he had felt that Tito knew him . 
He put out his hand and pushed the mirror away . 
He went back on the way towards Florence again , but he did not wish to enter the city till dusk ; so he turned aside from the high-road , and sat down by a little pool shadowed on one side by alder-bushes still sprinkled with yellow leaves . 
It was a calm November day , and he no sooner saw the pool than he thought its still surface might be a mirror for him . 
He wanted to contemplate himself slowly , as he had not dared to do in the presence of the barber . 
He knew how to begin to get the information he wanted about Tito . 
A man at Genoa , on whose finger he had seen Tito 's ring , had told him that he bought that ring at Florence , of a young Greek , well dressed , and with a handsome dark face , in the shop of a rigattiere called Bratti Ferravecchi , in the street also called Ferravecchi . 
Until then he had clung with all the tenacity of his fervid nature to his faith in Tito , and had not for a moment believed himself to be wilfully forsaken . 
At first he had said , `` My bit of parchment has never reached him ; that is why I am still toiling at Antioch . 
But he is searching ; he knows where I was lost ; he will trace me out , and find me at last . '' 
Then , when he was taken to Corinth , he induced his owners , by the assurance that he should be sought out and ransomed , to provide securely against the failure of any inquiries that might be made about him at Antioch ; and at Corinth he thought joyfully , `` Here , at last , he must find me . 
Here he is sure to touch , whichever way he goes . '' 
Then , as he sat helpless in the morning sunlight , he began to think , `` Tito has been drowned , or they have made him a prisoner too . 
There was just one possibility that hindered the wish from being decided : it was that Tito might not be dead , but living in a state of imprisonment or destitution ; and if he lived , there was still a hope for Baldassarre -- faint , perhaps , and likely to be long deferred , but still a hope , that he might find his child , his cherished son again ; might yet again clasp hands and meet face to face with the one being who remembered him as he had been before his mind was broken . 
In this state of feeling he had chanced to meet the stranger who wore Tito 's onyx ring , and though Baldassarre would have been unable to describe the ring beforehand , the sight of it stirred the dormant fibres , and he recognized it . 
That Tito nearly a year after his father had been parted from him should have been living in apparent prosperity at Florence , selling the gem which he ought not to have sold till the last extremity , was a fact that Baldassarre shrank from trying to account for ; he was glad to be stunned and bewildered by it , rather than to have any distinct thought ; he tried to feel nothing but joy that he should behold Tito again . 
Perhaps Tito had thought that his father was dead ; somehow the mystery would be explained . 
And by a question or two Baldassarre extracted , without any trouble , such a rough and rambling account of Tito 's life as the pedlar could give , since the time when he had found him sleeping under the Loggia de ' Cerchi . 
It never occurred to Bratti that the decent man -LRB- who was rather deaf , apparently , asking him to say many things twice over -RRB- had any curiosity about Tito ; the curiosity was doubtless about himself , as a truly remarkable pedlar . 
And Baldassarre left Bratti 's shop , not only with the dagger at his side , but with a general knowledge of Tito 's conduct and position -- of his early sale of the jewels , his immediate quiet settlement of himself at Florence , his marriage , and his great prosperity . 
The day he was discerned by Tito in the Piazza del Duomo , he had the fresh anguish of this consciousness in his mind , and Tito 's ready speech fell upon him like the mockery of a glib , defying demon . 
`` My Romola , '' said Tito , the second morning after he had made his speech in the Piazza del Duomo , `` I am to receive grand visitors to-day ; the Milanese Count is coming again , and the Seneschal de Beaucaire , the great favourite of the Cristianissimo . 
Even you are getting tired , with all your patience , my Tito ; confess it . 
The attitude had been a frequent one , and Tito was accustomed , when he felt her hand there , to raise his head , throw himself a little backward , and look up at her . 
But he felt now as unable to raise his head as if her hand had been a leaden cowl . 
He spoke instead , in a light tone , as his pen still ran along . 
Romola , keenly sensitive to the absence of the usual response , took away her hand and said , `` I am going , Tito . '' 
Still Tito did not look up , and Romola went out without saying any more . 
Very slight things make epochs in married life , and this morning for the first time she admitted to herself not only that Tito had changed , but that he had changed towards her . 
But Tito no sooner believed that Romola was out of the house than he laid down his pen and looked up , in delightful security from seeing anything else than parchment and broken marble . 
And Tito could never find it easy to face displeasure and anger ; his nature was one of those most remote from defiance or impudence , and all his inclinations leaned towards preserving Romola 's tenderness . 
And Tito was feeling intensely at this moment that no devices could save him from pain in the impending collision with Romola ; no persuasive blandness could cushion him against the shock towards which he was being driven like a timid animal urged to a desperate leap by the terror of the tooth and the claw that are close behind it . 
He winced under her judgment , he felt uncertain how far the revulsion of her feeling towards him might go ; and all that sense of power over a wife which makes a husband risk betrayals that a lover never ventures on , would not suffice to counteract Tito 's uneasiness . 
This was the leaden weight which had been too strong for his will , and kept him from raising his head to meet her eyes . 
Their pure light brought too near him the prospect of a coming struggle . 
But it was not to be helped : if they had to leave Florence , they must have money ; indeed , Tito could not arrange life at all to his mind without a considerable sum of money . 
And that problem of arranging life to his mind had been the source of all his misdoing . 
He would have been equal to any sacrifice that was not unpleasant . 
Tito was only gay and chatty , pouring forth to her , as he had not done before , stories and descriptions of what he had witnessed during the French visit . 
Romola thought she discerned and effort in his liveliness , and attributing it to the consciousness in him that she had been wounded in the morning , accepted the effort as an act of penitence , inwardly aching a little at that sign of growing distance between them -- that there was an offence about which neither of them dared to speak . 
The next day Tito remained away from home until late at night . 
`` I have just looked in to tell you the good news , for I know Tito is not come yet , '' said Bernardo . 
Tito seemed to think yesterday that there was little prospect of the king 's going soon . '' 
`` He has been well barked at , that 's reason , '' said Bernardo , smiling . 
`` His own generals opened their throats pretty well , and at last our Signoria sent the mastiff of the city , Fra Girolamo . 
I 'm afraid there 'll be small agreement among us when he 's gone , but , at any rate , all parties are agreed in being glad not to have Florence stifled with soldiery any longer , and the Frate has barked this time to some purpose . 
But immediately fearing lest her words should be taken to imply an accusation against Tito , she went on almost hurriedly , `` If we could only see his longest , dearest wish fulfilled just to his mind ! '' 
Besides her other reasons for gladness , she had a dim hope , which she was conscious was half superstitious , that those new anxieties about Tito , having come with the burdensome guests , might perhaps vanish with them . 
Tito had adopted the hateful armour on the day of their arrival , and though she could frame no distinct notion why their departure should remove the cause of his fear -- though , when she thought of that cause , the image of the prisoner grasping him , as she had seen it in Piero 's sketch , urged itself before her and excluded every other -- still , when the French were gone , she would be rid of something that was strongly associated with her pain . 
Tito had left home early in the morning , and she did not expect him yet . 
Before he came she intended to leave the library , and sit in the pretty saloon , with the dancing nymphs and the birds . 
She had done so every evening since he had objected to the library as chill and gloomy . 
To her great surprise , she had not been at work long before Tito entered . 
Her first thought was , how cheerless he would feel the wide darkness of this great room , with one little oil-lamp burning at the farther end , and the fire nearly out . 
She almost ran towards him . 
`` Tito , dearest , I did not know you would come so soon , '' she said , nervously , putting up her white arms to unwind his becchetto . 
he said , with one of his brightest smiles , clasping her , but playfully holding his head back from her . 
`` Tito ! '' 
She uttered the word in a tone of pretty , loving reproach , and then he kissed her fondly , stroked her hair , as his manner was , and seemed not to mind about taking off his mantle yet . 
Tito was taking great pains to be like himself ; his heart was palpitating with anxiety . 
`` If I had expected you so soon , '' said Romola , as she at last helped him to take off his wrappings , `` I would have had a little festival prepared to this joyful ringing of the bells . 
`` Never mind , sweet , '' he said , carelessly . 
There was a low stool against Tito 's chair , and that was Romola 's habitual seat when they were talking together . 
She rested her arm on his knee , as she used to do on her father 's , and looked up at him while he spoke . 
He had never yet noticed the presence of the portrait , and she had not mentioned it -- thinking of it all the more . 
`` I have been enjoying the clang of the bells for the first time , Tito , '' she began . 
`` Joyful after a sour and pious fashion , '' said Tito , with a shrug . 
Tito had sounded the desired key-note without any trouble , or appearance of premeditation . 
He spoke with no emphasis , but he looked grave enough to make Romola ask rather anxiously , `` Why , Tito ? 
`` Tito , how could we leave Florence ? 
Tito must know the reasons she had in her mind . 
He leaned forward and kissed her brow , and laid his hand on her fair hair again ; but she felt his caress no more than if he had kissed a mask . 
She was too much agitated by the sense of the distance between their minds to be conscious that his lips touched her . 
`` Tito , it is not because I suppose Florence is the pleasantest place in the world that I desire not to quit it . 
Romola sat silent and motionless : she could not blind herself to the direction in which Tito 's words pointed : he wanted to persuade her that they might get the library deposited in some monastery , or take some other ready means to rid themselves of a task , and of a tie to Florence ; and she was determined never to submit her mind to his judgment on this question of duty to her father ; she was inwardly prepared to encounter any sort of pain in resistance . 
But the determination was kept latent in these first moments by the heart-crushing sense that now at last she and Tito must be confessedly divided in their wishes . 
He was glad of her silence , for , much as he had feared the strength of her feeling , it was impossible for him , shut up in the narrowness that hedges in all merely clever , unimpassioned men , not to over-estimate the persuasiveness of his own arguments . 
His conduct did not look ugly to himself , and his imagination did not suffice to show him exactly how it would look to Romola . 
He went on in the same gentle , remonstrating tone . 
`` He trusted me , he trusted you , Tito . 
Romola was still too thoroughly under the painful pressure of the new revelation Tito was making of himself , for her resistance to find any strong vent . 
As that fluent talk fell on her ears there was a rising contempt within her , which only made her more conscious of her bruised , despairing love , her love for the Tito she had married and believed in . 
`` You talk of substantial good , Tito ! 
I would give up anything else , Tito , -- I would leave Florence , -- what else did I live for but for him and you ? 
It was a yearning of his heart , and therefore it is a yearning of mine . '' 
She thought , poor thing , there was nothing harder to come than this struggle against Tito 's suggestions as against the meaner part of herself . 
He had begun to see clearly that he could not persuade her into assent : he must take another course , and show her that the time for resistance was past . 
That necessity nerved his courage ; and his experience of her affectionateness and unexpected submissiveness , ever since their marriage until now , encouraged him to hope that , at last , she would accommodate herself to what had been his will . 
`` I am sorry to hear you speak in that spirit of blind persistence , my Romola , '' he said , quietly , `` because it obliges me to give you pain . 
She turned her eyes on him in breathless inquiry . 
`` I mean , '' he said , answering her look , `` that I have arranged for the transfer , both of the books and antiquities , where they will find the highest use and value . 
Before he had finished speaking , Romola had started from her seat , and stood up looking down at him , with tightened hands falling before her , and , for the first time in her life , with a flash of fierceness in her scorn and anger . 
`` I have , '' said Tito , quailing a little . 
In an instant Tito started up , went to the door , locked it , and took out the key . 
It was time for all the masculine predominance that was latent in him to show itself . 
But he was not angry ; he only felt that the moment was eminently unpleasant , and that when this scene was at an end he should be glad to keep away from Romola for a little while . 
`` Try to calm yourself a little , Romola , '' he said , leaning in the easiest attitude possible against a pedestal under the bust of a grim old Roman . 
`` Try at least to understand the fact , '' said Tito , `` and do not seek to take futile steps which may be fatal . 
Tito knew that he had touched the right fibre there . 
At first , Tito felt horribly cowed ; it seemed to him that the disgrace he had been dreading would be worse than he had imagined it . 
But soon there was a reaction : such power of dislike and resistance as there was within him was beginning to rise against a wife whose voice seemed like the hearld of a retributive fate . 
Her , at least , his quick mind told him that he might master . 
`` It is useless , '' he said , coolly , `` to answer the words of madness , Romola . 
`` No , they may not , '' said Tito , with cool decision . 
No words could have disclosed more fully her sense of alienation from Tito ; but they were spoken with less of bitterness than of anxious pleading . 
`` Do you believe in assurances , Tito ? '' 
I will say nothing to pain him or you . 
Bratti had told him that Tito 's dwelling was in the Via de ' Bardi ; and , after surveying that street , he turned up the slope of the hill which he had observed as he was crossing the bridge . 
When Tito had first found this home for Tessa , on his return from Rome , more than a year and a half ago , he had acted , he persuaded himself , simply under the constraint imposed on him by his own kindliness after the unlucky incident which had made foolish little Tessa imagine him to be her husband . 
It was true that the kindness was manifested towards a pretty trusting thing whom it was impossible to be near without feeling inclined to caress and pet her ; but it was not less true that Tito had movements of kindness towards her apart from any contemplated gain to himself . 
Otherwise , charming as her prettiness and prattle were in a lazy moment , he might have preferred to be free from her ; for he was not in love with Tessa -- he was in love for the first time in his life with an entirely different woman , whom he was not simply inclined to shower caresses on , but whose presence possessed him so that the simple sweep of her long tresses across his cheek seemed to vibrate through the hours . 
All the young ideal passion he had in him had been stirred by Romola , and his fibre was too fine , his intellect too bright , for him to be tempted into the habits of a gross pleasure-seeker . 
But he had spun a web about himself and Tessa , which he felt incapable of breaking : in the first moments after the mimic marriage he had been prompted to leave her under an illusion by a distinct calculation of his own possible need , but since that critical moment it seemed to him that the web had gone on spinning itself in spite of him , like a growth over which he had no power . 
The elements of kindness and self-indulgence are hard to distinguish in a soft nature like Tito 's ; and the annoyance he had felt under Tessa 's pursuit of him on the day of his betrothal , the thorough intention of revealing the truth to her with which he set out to fulfil his promise of seeing her again , were a sufficiently strong argument to him that in ultimately leaving Tessa under her illusion and providing a home for her , he had been overcome by his own kindness . 
And in these days of his first devotion to Romola he needed a self-justifying argument . 
He had learned to be glad that she was deceived about some things . 
But every strong feeling makes to itself a conscience of its own -- has its own piety ; just as much as the feeling of the son towards the mother , which will sometimes survive amid the worst fumes of depravation ; and Tito could not yet be easy in committing a secret offence against his wedded love . 
But he was all the more careful in taking precautions to preserve the secrecy of the offence . 
Monna Lisa , who , like many of her class , never left her habitation except to go to one or two particular shops , and to confession once a year , knew nothing of his real name and whereabout : she only knew that he paid her so as to make her very comfortable , and minded little about the rest , save that she got fond of Tessa , and liked the cares for which she was paid . 
For Tito had thoroughly frightened Tessa into silence about the circumstances of their marriage , by telling her that if she broke that silence she would never see him again ; and Monna Lisa 's deafness , which made it impossible to say anything to her without some premeditation , had saved Tessa from any incautious revelation to her , such as had run off her tongue in talking with Baldassarre . 
And for a long while Tito 's visits were so rare , that it seemed likely enough he took journeys between them . 
They were prompted chiefly by the desire to see that all things were going on well with Tessa ; and though he always found his visit pleasanter than the prospect of it -- always felt anew the charm of that pretty ignorant lovingness and trust -- he had not yet any real need of it . 
But he was determined , if possible , to preserve the simplicity on which the charm depended ; to keep Tessa a genuine contadina , and not place the small field-flower among conditions that would rob it of its grace . 
He would have been shocked to see her in the dress of any other rank than her own ; the piquancy of her talk would be all gone if things began to have new relations for her , if her world became wider , her pleasures less childish ; and the squirrel-like enjoyment of nuts at discretion marked the standard of the luxuries he provided for her . 
By this means , Tito saved Tessa 's charm from being sullied ; and he also , by a convenient coincidence , saved himself from aggravating expenses that were already rather importunate to a man whose money was all required for his avowed habits of life . 
This , in brief , had been the history of Tito 's relation to Tessa up to a very recent date . 
Tito stepped lightly across the little room , and sat down close to her . 
She had probably heard the opening of the door as part of her dream , for he had not been looking at her two moments before she opened her eyes . 
She opened them without any start , and remained quite motionless looking at him , as if the sense that he was there smiling at her shut out any impulse which could disturb that happy passiveness . 
But when he put his hand under her chin , and stooped to kiss her , she said : -- `` I dreamed it , and then I said it was dreaming -- and then I awoke , and it was true . '' 
said Tito , pinching her chin , `` you have not said half your prayers . 
Tessa did not like those words , even though Tito was smiling . 
He satisfied her by giving the small mummy a butterfly kiss , and then putting his hand on her shoulder and turning her face towards him , said , `` You like looking at the baby better than looking at your husband , you false one ! '' 
She was still kneeling , and now rested her hands on his knee , looking up at him like one of Fra Lippo Lippi 's round-cheeked adoring angels . 
said Tito , inclined to make her prattle . 
said Tito , rather anxiously . 
said Tito , his heart beginning to beat strangely . 
He was so haunted by the thought of Baldassarre , that it was already he whom he saw in imagination sitting on the straw not many yards from him . 
Tito 's eyes were still fixed on Tessa ; but he had ceased to see her , and was only seeing the objects her words suggested . 
Tito was quite unconscious of her movements -- unconscious of his own attitude : he was in that wrapt state in which a man will grasp painful roughness , and press , and press it closer , and never feel it . 
It was not repentance with a white sheet round it and taper in hand , confessing its hated sin in the eyes of men , that Tito was preparing for : it was a repentance that would make all things pleasant again , and keep all past unpleasant things secret . 
And Tito 's soft-heartedness , his indisposition to feel himself in harsh relations with any creature , was in strong activity towards his father , now his father was brought near to him . 
It would be a state of ease that his nature could not but desire , if that poisonous hatred in Baldassarre 's glance could be replaced by something of the old affection and complacency . 
Tito longed to have his world once again completely cushioned with good-will , and longed for it the more eagerly because of what he had just suffered from the collision with Romola . 
It was not difficult to him to smile pleadingly on those whom he had injured , and offer to do them much kindness : and no quickness of intellect could tell him exactly the taste of that honey on the lips of the injured . 
The opportunity was there , and it raised an inclination which hemmed in the calculating activity of his thought . 
He started up , and stepped towards the door ; but Tessa 's cry , as she dropped her beads , roused him from his absorption . 
He turned and said , `` My Tessa , get me a lantern ; and do n't cry , little pigeon , I am not angry . '' 
They went down the stairs , and Tessa was going to shout the need of the lantern in Monna Lisa 's ear , when Tito , who had opened the door , said , `` Stay , Tessa -- no , I want no lantern : go upstairs again , and keep quiet , and say nothing to Monna Lisa . '' 
In half a minute he stood before the closed door of the outhouse , where the moon was shining white on the old paintless wood . 
In this last decisive moment , Tito felt a tremor upon him -- a sudden instinctive shrinking from a possible tiger-glance , a possible tiger-leap . 
Yet why should he , a young man , be afraid of an old one ? 
It was but a moment 's hesitation , and Tito laid his hand on the door . 
Was his father asleep ? 
Was there nothing else but the door that screened him from the voice and the glance which no magic could turn into ease ? 
There was a square opening high in the wall of the hovel , through which the moonbeams sent in a stream of pale light ; and if Tito could have looked through the opening , he would have seen his father seated on the straw , with something that shone like a white star in his hand . 
Tito had his hand on the door and was pulling it : it dragged against the ground as such old doors often do , and Baldassarre , startled out of his dream-like state , rose from his sitting posture in vague amazement , not knowing where he was . 
In one moment , before Tito could start back , the old man , with the preternatural force of rage in his limbs , had sprung forward and the dagger had flashed out . 
In the next moment the dagger had snapped in two , and Baldassarre , under the parrying force of Tito 's arm , had fallen back on the straw , clutching the hilt with its bit of broken blade . 
The pointed end lay shining against Tito 's feet . 
Tito had felt one great heart-leap of terror as he had staggered under the weight of the thrust : he felt now the triumph of deliverance and safety . 
His armour had been proved , and vengeance lay helpless before him . 
But the triumph raised no devilish impulse ; on the contrary the sight of his father close to him and unable to injure him , made the effort at reconciliation easier . 
He was free from fear , but he had only the more unmixed and direct want to be free from the sense that he was hated . 
After they had looked at each other a little while , Baldassarre lying motionless in despairing rage , Tito said in his soft tones , just as they had sounded before the last parting on the shores of Greece , `` Padre mio ! '' 
There was a pause after those words , but no movement or sound till he said , -- `` I came to ask your forgivness ! '' 
Again he paused , that the healing balm of those words might have time to work . 
But there was no sign of change in Baldassarre : he lay as he had fallen , leaning on one arm : he was trembling , but it was from the shock that had thrown him down . 
He paused again . 
He had used the clearest and strongest words he could think of . 
It was useless to say more , until he had some sign that Baldassarre understood him . 
Tito put out his hand to help him , and so strangely quick are men 's souls that in this moment when he began to feel his atonement was accepted , he had a darting thought of the irksome efforts it entailed . 
Baldassarre clutched the hand that was held out , raised himself and clutched it still , going close up to Tito till their faces were not a foot off each other . 
Then he began to speak , in a deep trembling voice , `` I saved you -- I nurtured you -- I loved you . 
He let fall Tito 's hand , and going backwards a little , first rested his arm on a projecting stone in the wall , and then sank again in a sitting posture on the straw . 
The outleap of fury in the dagger-thrust had evidently exhausted him . 
Tito stood silent . 
If it had been a deep yearning emotion which had brought him to ask his father 's forgiveness , the denial of it might have caused him a pang which would have excluded the rushing train of thought that followed those decisive words . 
As it was , though the sentence of unchangeable hatred grated on him and jarred him terribly , his mind glanced round with a self-preserving instinct to see how far those words could have the force of a substantial threat . 
When he had come down to speak to Baldassarre , he had said to himself that if his effort at reconciliation failed , things would only be as they had been before . 
Tito felt he had no choice now : he must defy Baldassarre as a mad , imbecile old man ; and the chances were so strongly on his side that there was hardly room for fear . 
`` Not so , '' said Tito . 
said Tito , more anxious about this certainty than the ground of it . 
Tito turned and re-entered the house . 
Monna Lisa was nodding : he went up to Tessa , and found her crying by the side of her baby . 
`` Tessa , '' he said , sitting down , and taking her head between his hands . 
He lifted her chin upward , that she might look at him , while he spoke very distinctly and emphatically . 
He told her , to comfort her , that he would come again to-morrow ; and then went down to Monna Lisa to rebuke her severely for letting a dangerous man come about the house . 
Tito felt that these were odious tasks ; they were very evil-tasted morsels , but they were forced upon him . 
He heard Monna Lisa fasten the door behind him , and turned away , without looking towards the open door of the hovel . 
He felt secure that Baldassarre would go , and he could not wait to see him go . 
Baldassarre was still sitting on the straw when the shadow of Tito passed by . 
Before him lay the fragments of the broken dagger ; beside him lay the open book , over which he had pored in vain . 
They looked like mocking symbols of his utter helplessness ; and his body was still too trembling for him to rise and walk away . 
For several days Tito saw little of Romola . 
He told her gently , the next morning , that it would be better for her to remove any small articles of her own from the library , as there would be agents coming to pack up the antiquities . 
Then , leaning to kiss her on the brow , he suggested that she should keep in her own room where the little painted tabernacle was , and where she was then sitting , so that she might be away from the noise of strange footsteps . 
Tito divined that she felt ill , but he dared say no more ; he only dared , perceiving that her hand and brow were stone cold , to fetch a furred mantle and throw it lightly round her . 
And in every brief interval that he returned to her , the scene was nearly the same : he tried to propitiate her by some unobtrusive act or word of tenderness , and she seemed to have lost the power of speaking to him , or of looking at him . 
he said to himself . 
But Tito was not naturally disposed to feel himself aggrieved ; the constant bent of his mind was towards propitiation , and he would have submitted to much for the sake of feeling Romola 's hand resting on his head again , as it did that morning when he first shrank from looking at her . 
But he found it the less difficult to wait patiently for the return of his home happiness because his life out of doors was more and more interesting to him . 
A course of action which is in strictness a slowly-prepared out-growth of the entire character , is yet almost always traceable to a single impression as its point of apparent origin ; and since that moment in the Piazza del Duomo , when Tito , mounted on the bales , had tasted a keen pleasure in the consciousness of his ability to tickle the ears of men with any phrases that pleased them , his imagination had glanced continually towards a sort of political activity which the troubled public life of Florence was likely enough to find occasion for . 
Tito 's implicit desires were working themselves out now in very explicit thoughts . 
As the freshness of young passion faded , life was taking more and more decidedly for him the aspect of a game in which there was an agreeable mingling of skill and chance . 
Tito felt that Romola was a more unforgiving woman than he had imagined ; her love was not that sweet clinging instinct , stronger than all judgments , which , he began to see now , made the great charm of a wife . 
But when the door had closed on Tito , Romola lost the look of cold immobility which came over her like an inevitable frost whenever he approached her . 
Inwardly she was very far from being in a state of quiet endurance , and the days that had passed since the scene which had divided her from Tito had been days of active planning and preparation for the fulfilment of a purpose . 
She meant to take Maso with her as far as Bologna , and then send him back with letters to her godfather and Tito , telling them that she was gone and never meant to return . 
He did not even know that the library was sold , and was left to conjecture that some sudden piece of good fortune had enabled Tito to raise this sum of money . 
In a tiny gold loop of the circlet a sugar-plumb had lodged -- a pink hailstone from the shower of sweets : Tito had detected it first , and had said that it should always remain there . 
If that beloved Tito who had placed the betrothal ring on her finger was not in any valid sense the same Tito whom she had ceased to love , why should she return to him the sign of their union , and not rather retain it as a memorial ? 
And this act , which came as a palpable demonstration of her own and his identity , had a power , unexplained to herself , of shaking Romola . 
She had recoiled from Tito in proportion to the energy of that young belief and love which he had disappointed , of that life-long devotion to her father against which he had committed an irredeemable offence . 
And now she felt a tingling shame at the words of ignominy she had cast at Tito -- `` Have you robbed some one else who is not dead ? '' 
Since the shock of the revelation which had seemed to divide her for ever from Tito , that last interview with Dino had never been for many hours together out of her mind . 
True as the voice of foreboding had proved , Romola saw with unshaken conviction that to have renounced Tito in obedience to a warning like that , would have been meagre-hearted folly . 
It was the original key of the little painted tabernacle : Tito had forgotten to drown it in the Arno , and it had lodged , as such small things will , in the corner of the embroidered scarsella which he wore with the purple tunic . 
The first said , `` Tito , my love for you is dead ; and therefore , so far as I was yours , I too am dead . 
She folded the ring inside this letter , and wrote Tito 's name outside . 
That journey of Tito 's Rome , which had removed many difficulties from Romola 's departure , had been resolved on quite suddenly , at a supper , only the evening before . 
Tito had set out towards that supper with agreeable expectations . 
His invitation had been conveyed to Tito through Lorenzo Tornabuoni with an emphasis which would have suggested that the object of the gathering was political , even if the public questions of the time had been less absorbing . 
As it was , Tito felt sure that some party purposes were to be furthered by the excellent flavours of stewed fish and old Greek wine ; for Bernardo Rucellai was not simply an influential personage , he was one of the elect Twenty who for three weeks had held the reins of Florence . 
This assurance put Tito in the best spirits as he made his way to the Via della Scala , where the classic garden was to be found : without it , he might have had some uneasy speculation as to whether the high company he would have the honour of meeting was likely to be dull as well as distinguished ; for he had had experience of various dull suppers even in the Rucellai gardens , and especially of the dull philosophic sort , wherein he had not only been called upon to accept an entire scheme of the universe -LRB- which would have been easy of him -RRB- , but to listen to an exposition of the same , from the origin of things ot their complete ripeness in the tractate of the philosopher then speaking . 
It was a dark evening , and it was only when Tito corssed the occasional light of a lamp suspended before an image of the Virgin , that the outline of his figure was discernible enough for recognition . 
At such moments any one caring to watch his passage from one of these lights to another might have observed that the tall and graceful personage with the mantle folded rounded him was followed constantly by a very different form , thick-set and elderly , in a serge tunic and felt hat . 
But when Tito stopped at the gate of the Rucellai gardens , the figure behind stopped too . 
The sportello , or smaller door of the gate , was already being held open by the servant , who , in the distraction of attending to some question , had not yet closed it since the last arrival , and Tito turned in rapidly , giving his name to the servant , and passing on between the evergreen bushes that shone like metal in the torchlight . 
`` I belong to Tito Melema , who has just gone in . 
Those ready and firm answers argued a great change in Baldassarre since the last meeting face to face with Tito , when the dagger broke in two . 
At the moment when the shadow of Tito passed in front of the hovel as he departed homeward , Baldassarre was sitting in that state of after-tremor known to every one who is liable to great outbursts of possion : a state in which physical powerlessness is sometimes accompanied by an exceptional lucidity of thought , as if that disengagement of excited passion had carried away a fire-mist and left clearness behind it . 
And when the first triumph in the certainty of recovered power had had its way , his thoughts centred themselves on Tito . 
He could search into every secret of Tito 's life now : he knew some of the secrets already , and the failure of the broken dagger , which seemed like frustration , had been the beginning of achievement . 
Doubtless that sudden rage had shaken away the obstruction which stifled his soul . 
Twice before , when his memory had partially returned , it had been in consequence of sudden excitation : once when he had had to defend himself from an enraged dog ; once when he had been overtaken by the waves , and had had to scramble up a rock to save himself . 
This time the light was stronger and steadier ; but what security was there that before the morrow the dark fog would not be round him again ? 
Even the fear seemed like the beginning of feebleness : he thought with alarm that he might sink the faster for this excited vigil of his on the hill , which was expending his force ; and after seeking anxiously for a sheltered corner where he might lie down , he nestled at last against a heap of warm garden straw , and so fell asleep . 
When he opened his eyes again it was daylight . 
The first moments were filled with strange bewilderment : he was a man with a double identity ; to which had he awaked ? 
Surely the last , for the events of the night all came back to him : the recognition of the page in Pausanias , the crowding resurgence of facts and names , the sudden wide prospect which had given him such a moment as that of the Mænad in the glorious amaze of her morning waking on the mountain top . 
He took up the book again , he read , he remembered without reading . 
He saw a name , and the images of deeds rose with it ; he saw the mention of a deed , and he linked it with a name . 
From that time till the evening on which we have seen him enter the Rucellai gardens , he had been incessantly , but cautiously , inquiring into Tito 's position and all his circumstances , and there was hardly a day on which he did not contrive to follow his movements . 
But he wished not to arouse any alarm in Tito : he wished to secure a moment when the hated favourite of blind fortune was at the summit of confident ease , surrounded by chief men on whose favour he depended . 
He had avoided addressing himself to any one whom he suspected of intimacy with Tito , lest an alarm raised in Tito 's mind should urge him either to flight or to some other counteracting measure which hard-pressed ingenuity might devise . 
For this reason he had never entered Nello 's shop , which he observed that Tito frequented , and he had turned aside to avoid meeting Piero di Cosimo . 
The possibility of frustration gave added eagerness to his desire that the great opportunity he sought should not be deferred . 
The desire was eager in him on another ground ; he trembled lest his memory should go again . 
Whether from the agitating presence of that fear , or from some other causes , he had twice felt a sort of mental dizziness , in which the inward sense or imagination seemed to be losing to distinct forms of things . 
Once he had attempted to enter the Palazzo Vecchio and make his way into a council-chamber where Tito was , and had failed . 
But now , on this evening , he felt that his occasion was come . 
On entering the handsome pavilion , Tito 's quick glance soon discerned in the selection of the guests the confirmation of his conjecture that the object of the gathering was political , though , perhaps , nothing more distinct than that strengthening of party which comes from good-fellowship . 
He welcomed Tito with more marked favour than usual , and gave him a place between Lorenzo Tornabuoni and Giannozzo Pucci , both of them accomplished young members of the Medicean party . 
Tito quoted Horace , and dispered his slice in small particles over his plate ; Bernardo Rucellai made a learned observation about the ancient price of peacocks ' eggs , but did not pretend to eat his slice ; and Niccolò Ridolfi held a mouthful on his fork while he told a favourite story of Luigi Pulci 's , about a man of Siena , who , wanting to give a splendid entertainment at moderate expense , bought a wild goose , cut off its beak and webbed feet , and boiled it in its feathers , to pass for a pea-hen . 
He could hear the laughter ; he could see Tito gesticulating with careless grace , and hear his voice , now alone , now mingling in the merry confusion of interlacing speeches . 
He was preparing himself for the moment when he could win his entrance into this brilliant company ; and he had a savage satisfaction in the sight of Tito 's easy gaiety , which seemed to be preparing the unconscious victim for more effective torture . 
It was a result which had been foreseen by Lorenzo Tornabuoni and Ginnozzo Pucci , and they were among the first to turn aside from the high-road of general talk and enter into a special conversation with Tito , who sat between them ; gradually pushing away their seats , and turning their backs on the table and wine . 
`` In truth , Melema , '' Tornabuoni was saying at this stage , laying one hose-clad leg across the knee of the other , and caressing his ancle , `` I know of no man in Florence who can serve our party better than you . 
`` Yes , '' said Giannozzo Pucci , laying his hand on Tito 's shoulder , `` the fact is , Tito mio , you can help us better than if you were Ulysses himself , for I am convinced that Ulysses often made himself disagreeable . 
`` Yes , '' said Tornabuoni , lowering his voice in a significant manner , `` you have only to play your game well , Melema , and the future belongs to you . 
Tito laughed gaily . 
He was too acute not to measure Tornabuoni 's exaggerated flattery , but still the flattery had a pleasant flavour . 
`` If it were not that an adhesion to the popular side is necessary to your safety as an agent of our party , Tito mio , '' said Giannozzo Pucci , who was more fraternal and less patroizing in his manners than Tornabuoni , `` I could have wished your skill to have been employed in another way , for which it is still better fitted . 
Tito was pushing his hair back automatically , as his manner was , and looking straight at Pucci with a scarcely perceptible simle on his lip . 
Tito seldom spoke so confidently of his own powers , but he was in a state of exaltation at the sudden opening of a new path before him , where fortune seemed to have hung higher prizes than any he had thought of hitherto . 
And all the motives which might have made Tito shrink from the triple deceit that came before him as a tempting game , had been slowly strangled in him by the successive falsities of his life . 
But Tito was feeling the effect of an opposite tradition : he had won no memories of self-conquest and perfect faithfulness from which he could have a sense of falling . 
`` Melema , I think you are the chief : Matteo will give you the lute . '' 
The servant put the lute into Tito 's hands , and then said something in an under-tone to his master . 
A little subdued questioning and answering went on between them , while Tito touched the lute in a preluding way to the strain of the chorus , and there was a confusion of speech and muscial humming all round the table . 
Berbardo Rucellai had said , `` Wait a moment , Meleme ; '' but the words had been unheard by Tito , who was leaning towards Pucci , and singing low to him the phrases of the Mænad-chorus . 
Baldassarre had moved round the table till he was opposite Tito , and as the hum ceased there might be seen for an instant Baldassarre 's fierce dark eyes bent on Tito 's bright smiling unconsciousness , while the low notes of triumph dropped from his lips into the silence . 
Tito looked up with a slight start , and his lips turned pale , but he seemed hardly more moved than Giannozzo Pucci , who had looked up at the same moment -- or even than several others round the table ; for that sallow deep-lined face with the hatred in its eyes seemed a terrible apparition across the wax-lit ease and gaiety . 
And Tito quickly recovered some self-command . 
Every one present , except Tito , thought of political danger and not of private injury . 
As he fixed his eyes on Tito again the passionate words were like blows -- they defied premeditation . 
All glances were turned on Tito , who was now looking straight at Baldassarre . 
`` What does this mean , Melema ? '' 
`` Messer Bernardo , '' said Tito , `` I believe this man is mad . 
Tito had felt more and more confidence as he went on ; the lie was not so difficult when it was once begun ; and as the words fell easily from his lips , they gave him a sense of power such as men feel when they have begun a muscular feat successfully . 
In this way he acquired boldness enough to end with a challenge for proofs . 
Baldassarre , while he had been walking in the gardens and afterwards waiting in an outer room of the pavilion with the servants , had been making anew the digest of the evidence he would bring to prove his identity and Tito 's baseness , recalling the description and history of his gems , and assuring himself by rapid mental glances that he could attest his learning and his travels . 
It might be partly owing to this nervous strain that the new shock of rage he felt as Tito 's lie fell on his ears brought a strange bodily effect with it : a cold stream seemed to rush over him , and the last words of the speech seemed to be drowned by ringing chimes . 
Thought gave way to a dizzy horror , as if the earth were slipping away from under him . 
Every one in the room was looking at him as Tito ended , and saw that the eyes which had had such fierce intensity only a few minutes before had a vague fear in them . 
He clutched the back of a seat , and was silent . 
Hardly any evidence could have been more in favour of Tito 's assertion . 
`` Certainly you have , '' said Tito , readily , in a low tone . 
`` I cast no doubt on your word , Melema , '' said Bernardo Rucellai , with cautious gravity , `` but you are right to desire some positive test of the fact . '' 
Do you accept this test , Melema ? 
It was a fearful crisis for Tito . 
If he said , `` Yes , '' his quick mind told him that he would shake the credibility of his story : if he said , `` No , '' he risked everything on the uncertain extent of Baldassarre 's imbecility . 
Nay , so distinct sometimes is the working of a double consciousness within us , that Tito himself , while he triumphed in the apparent verification of his lie , wished that he had never made the lie necessary to himself -- wished he had recognized his father on the steps -- wished he had gone to seek him -- wished everything had been different . 
But he had borrowed from the terrible usurer Falsehood , and the loan had mounted and mounted with the years , till he belonged to the usurer , body and soul . 
The compassion excited in all the witnesses was not without its danger to Tito ; for conjecture is constantly guided by feeling , and more than one person suddenly conceived that this man might have been a scholar and have lost his faculties . 
On the other hand , they had not present to their minds the motives which could have led Tito to the denial of his benefactor , and having no ill-will towards him , it would have been difficult to them to believe that he had been uttering the basest of lies . 
And the originally common type of Baldassarre 's person , coarsened by years of hardship , told as a confirmation of Tito 's lie . 
`` And you say he has attempted your life already , Melema ? '' 
If the seeds of conjecture unfavourable to Tito had been planted in the mind of any one present , they were hardly strong enough to grow without the aid of much daylight and ill-will . 
As it was , the only congruous and probable view of the case seemed to be the one that sent the unpleasant accuser safely out of sight , and left the pleasant serviceable Tito just where he was before . 
Tito 's heart was palpitating , and the wine tasted no better to him than if it had been blood . 
To-night he had paid a heavier price than ever to make himself safe . 
He did not like the price , and yet it was inevitable that he should be glad of the purchase . 
And after all he led the chorus . 
He was in a state of excitement in which oppressive sensations , and the wretched consciousness of something hateful but irrevocable , were mingled with a feeling of triumph which seemed to assert itself as the feeling that would subsist and be master of the morrow . 
Suddenly a voice close to her said , -- `` You are Romola de ' Bardi , the wife of Tito Melema . '' 
`` I would not have put on a disguise , '' she began ; but she could not go on , -- she was too much shaken by the suggestion in the Frate 's words of a possible affinity between her own conduct and Tito 's . 
The light of two summers had not made that image any fainter in Romola 's memory : the image of the escaped prisoner , whom she had seen in the Duomo the day when Tito first wore the armour -- at whose grasp Tito was paled with terror in the strange sketch she had seen in Piero 's studio . 
`` were the vague answers with which Tito met the importunities of the crowd , until he had succeeded in pushing on his horse to the spot at the meeting of the ways where the Gonfaloniere and the Priors were awaiting him . 
There he paused , and , bowing low , said : -- `` Magnificent Signori ! 
The words had no sooner left Tito 's lips than they seemed to vibrate up the streets . 
At last , as the signal was given to move forward , Tito said , with a smile , -- `` I ought to say , that any hose to be bestowed by the Magnificent Signoria in reward of these tidings , are due , not to me , but to another man who had ridden hard to bring them , and would have been here in my place if his horse had not broken down just before he reached Signa . 
It was a graceful way of putting a necessary statement , and after a word of reply from the Proposto , or spokesman of the Signoria , this dignified extremity of the procession passed on , and Tito turned his horse 's head to follow in its train , while the great bell of the Palazzo Vecchio was already beginning to swing , and give a louder voice to the people 's joy . 
In that moment , when Tito 's attention had ceased to be imperatively directed , it might have been expected that he would look round and recognize Romola ; but he was apparently engaged with his cap , which , now the eager people were leading his horse , he was able to seize and place on his head , while his right hand was still encumbered with the olive branch . 
He had a becoming air of lassitude after his exertions ; and Romola , instead of making any effort to be recognized by him , threw her black drapery over her head again , and remained perfectly quiet . 
Yet she felt almost sure that Tito had seen her ; he had the power of seeing everything without seeming to see it . 
Romola started as the glance was turned on her , but her immediate thought was that he had seen Tito . 
If she could learn that now , by bringing Tito face to face with him , and have her mind set at rest ! 
The very force with which the image of Tito pressed upon him seemed to expel any verbal sign . 
He made no answer , but looked at her with strange fixedness . 
When he had had enough bread , he should be able to think and act -- to think first how he could hide himself , lest Tito should have him dragged away again . 
With that idea of hiding in his mind , Baldassarre turned up the narrowest streets , bought himself some meat and bread , and sat down under the first loggia to eat . 
If the gulf between herself and Tito which only gathered a more perceptible wideness from her attempts to bridge it by submission , brought a doubt whether , after all , the bond to which she had laboured to be true might not itself be false -- if she came away from her confessor , Fra Salvestro , or from some contact with the disciples of Savonarola amongest whom she worshipped , with a sickening sense that these people were miserably narrow , and with an almost impetuous reaction towards her old contempt for their superstition -- she found herself recovering a firm footing in her works of womanly sympathy . 
After that welcome appearance as the messenger with the olive-branch , which was an unpromised favour of fortune , Tito had other commissions to fufil of a more premeditated character . 
He paused at the Palazzo Vecchio , and awaited there the return of the Ten , who managed external and war affairs , that he might duly deliver to them the results of his private mission to Pisa , intended as a preliminary to an avowed embassy of which Bernardo Rucellai was to be the head , with the object of coming , if possible , to a pacific understanding with the Emperor Maximilian and the League . 
Tito 's talents for diplomatic work had been well ascertained , and as he gave with fulness and precision the results of his inquiries and interviews , Bernardo del Nero , who was at that time one of the Ten , could not withhold his admiration . 
He would have withheld it if he could ; for his original dislike of Tito had returned , and become stronger , since the sale of the library . 
With this long-established conviction that there could be no moral sifting of political agents , the old Florentine abstained from all interference in Tito 's disfavour . 
Apart from what must be kept sacred and private for Romola 's sake , Bernardo had nothing distinct to allege against the useful Greek , except that he was a Greek , and that he , Bernardo , did not like him ; for the doubleness of feigning attachement to the popular government , while at heart a Medicean , was common to Tito with more than half the Medicean party . 
He only feigned with more skill than the rest : that was all . 
So Bernardo was simply cold to Tito , who returned the coldness with a scrupulous , distant respect . 
After delivering himself of his charge at the Old Palace , Tito felt that the avowed official work of the day was done . 
He was tired and adust with long riding ; but he did not go home . 
There were certain things in his scarsella and on his mind , from which he wished to free himself as soon as possible , but the opportunities must be found so skilfully that they must not seem to be sought . 
He walked from the Palazzo in a sauntering fashion towards the Piazza del Duomo . 
Tito , as he passed along , could not escape being recognized by some as the welcome bearer of the olive-branch , and could only rid himself of an inconvenient ovation , chiefly in the form of eager questions , by telling those who pressed on him that Meo di Sasso , the true messenger from Leghorn , must now be entering , and might certainly be met towards the Porta San Frediano . 
He could tell much more than Tito knew . 
Freeing himself from importunities in this adroit manner , he made his way to the Piazza del Duomo , casting his long eyes round the space with an air of the utmost carelessness , but really seeking to detect some presence which might furnish him with one of his desired opportunities . 
It was suspected , therefore , that Messer Dolfo Spini 's heart was not a-glow with pure joy at the unexpected succours which had come in apparent fulfilment of the Frate 's prediction , and the laughter , which was ringing out afresh as Tito joined the group at Nello 's door , did not serve to dissipate the suspicion . 
If I were a trifle duller now , '' he went on , smiling as the circle opened to admit Tito , `` I should pretend to be fond of this Melema , who has got a secretaryship that would exactly suit me -- as if Latin ill-paid could love better Latin that 's better paid ! 
Melema , you are a pestiferously clever fellow , very much in my way , and I 'm sorry to hear you 've had another piece of good luck to-day . '' 
`` Questionable luck , Niccolò , '' said Tito , touching him on the shoulder in a friendly way ; `` I have got nothing by it yet but being laid hold of and breathed upon by wool-beaters , when I am as soiled and battered with riding as a tabellario -LRB- letter-carrier -RRB- from Bologna . '' 
you want a touch of my art , Messer Oratore , '' said Nello , who had come forward at the sound of Tito 's voice ; `` your chin , I perceive , has yesterday 's crop upon it . 
`` In truth , Nello , that is just what I most desire at this moment , '' said Tito , seating himself ; `` and that was why I turned my steps towards thy shop , instead of going home at once , when I had done my business at the Palazzo . '' 
Tito gave a melancholy shrug . 
`` As every other influence is likely to be , that of the Holy Father included , '' said Domenico Cennini , one of the group at the door , who had turned in with Tito . 
`` I do n't know whether you have gathered anything at Pisa about the the way the wind sits at Rome , Melema ? '' 
said Tito , smiling and opening his palms in a deprecatory manner . 
`` A party that seems strong enough , '' said Macchiavelli , with a shrug , and an almost imperceptible glance towards Tito , who was abandoning himself with much enjoyment to Nello 's combing and scenting . 
`` You are right there , Messer Domenico , '' said Tito , with a laughing meaning in his eyes , as he rose from the shaving-chair ; `` and I fancy the tender passion came in aid of hard theory there . 
Tito was settling his cap and glancing down at his splashed hose as if he hardly heeded the answer . 
In reality he had obtained a much-desired piece of information . 
He had at that moment in his scarsella a crushed gold ring which he had engaged to deliver to Giannozzo Pucci . 
Since Pucci was not in the town , he would send the ring by Fra Michele , a Carthusian lay Brother in the service of the Mediceans , and the receipt of that sign would bring Pucci back to hear the verbal part of Tito 's mission . 
said Nello , flourishing his comb and pointing it at Tito , `` the handsomest scholar in the world or in the wolds , `` Del mondo o di maremma . '' 
Tito , laughing with the rest as Nello looked at himself tragically in the hand-mirror , made a sign of farewell to the company generally , and took his departure . 
`` I do n't half like Melema . 
That trick of smiling gets stronger than ever -- no wonder he has lines about the mouth . '' 
`` He 's too successful , '' said Macchiavelli , playfully . 
`` I 'm sure there 's something wrong about him , else he would n't have that secretaryship . '' 
`` He 's an able man , '' said Cennini , in a tone of judicial fairness . 
`` Did he tell you about the pay , Ser Ceccone , or was it Melema himself ? '' 
`` Melema ? 
`` It got hushed up somehow ; but I remember Piero di Cosimo said , at the time , he believed there was something in it , for he saw Melema 's face when the man laid hold of him , and he never saw a visage so ` painted with fear , ' as our sour old Dante says . '' 
Tito , who had gone out again shortly after his arrival in the Via de ' Bardi , and had seen little of Romola during the day , immediately proposed to accompany her home , dismissing Maso , whose short steps annoyed him . 
Tito and Romola never jarred , never remonstrated with each other . 
If Tito wanted a supper prepared in the old library , now pleasantly furnished as a banqueting-room , Romola assented , and saw that everything needful was done ; and Tito , on his side , left her entirely uncontrolled in her daily habits , accepting the help she offered him in transcribing or making digests , and in return meeting her conjectured want of supplies for her charities . 
Yet he constantly , as on this very morning , avoided exchanging glances with her ; affected to believe that she was out of the house , in order to avoid seeking her in her own room ; and playfully attributed to her a perpetual preference of solitude to his society . 
But to her such a relation could only come by open speech about their differences , and the attempt to arrive at a moral understanding ; while Tito could only be saved from alienation from her by such a recovery of her effusive tenderness as would have supposed oblivion of their differences . 
He cared for no explanation between them ; he felt any thorough explanation impossible : he would have cared to have Romola fond again , and to her , fondness was impossible . 
As they walked together this evening , Tito said : -- `` The business of the day is not yet quite ended for me . 
And then he talked amusingly of what he had seen at Pisa , until they were close upon a loggia , near which there hung a lamp before a picture of the Virgin . 
`` We shall not get home without a wetting , unless we take shelter under this convenient loggia , '' Tito said , hastily , hurrying Romola with a slightly startled movement , up the step of the loggia . 
With that wakefulness to the faintest indication which belongs to a mind habitually in a state of caution , Tito had detected by the glimmer of the lamp that the leader of the advancing group wore a red feather and a glittering sword-hilt -- in fact , was almost the last person in the world he would have chosen to meet at this hour with Romola by his side . 
He had already during the day had one momentous interview with Dolfo Spini , and the business he had spoken of to Romola as yet to be done was a second interview with that personage , a sequence of the visit he had paid at San Marco . 
Tito , by a long preconcerted plan , had been the bearer of letters to Savonarola -- carefully forged letters ; one of them , by a stratagem , bearing the very signature and seal of the Cardinal of Naples , who of all the Sacred College had most exerted his influence at Rome in favour of the Frate . 
The purport of the letters was to state that the Cardinal was on his progress from Pisa , and , unwilling for strong reasons to enter Florence , yet desirous of taking counsel with Savonarola at this difficult juncture , intended to pause this very day at San Casciano , about ten miles from the city , whence he would ride out the next morning in the plain garb of a priest , and meet Savonarola , as if casually , five miles on the Florence road , two hours after sunrise . 
Tito had had an audience of Savonarola , having declined to put the letters into any hands but his , and with consummate art had admitted that incidentally , and by inference , he was able so far to conjecture their purport as to believe they referred to a rendezvous outside the gates , in which case he urged that the Frate should seek an armed guard from the Signoria , and offered his services in carrying the request with the utmost privacy . 
He spoke with a flashing eye , and Tito felt convinced that he meant to incur the risk . 
Tito himself did not much care for the result . 
He managed his affairs so cleverly , that all results , he considered , must turn to his advantage . 
Whichever party came uppermost , he was secure of favour and money . 
That is an indecorously naked statement ; the fact , clothed as Tito habitually clothed it , was that his acute mind , discerning the equal hollowness of all parties , took the only rational course in making them subservient to his own interest . 
If Savonarola fell into the snare , there were diamonds , in question and papal patronage ; if not , Tito 's adroit agency had strengthened his position with Savonarola and with Spini , while any confidences he obtained from them made him the more valuable as an agent of the Mediceans . 
He frequently got excited with drinking , for even sober Florence had its `` Beoni , '' or topers , both lay and clerical , who became loud at taverns and private banquets ; and in spite of the agreement between him and Tito , that their public recognition of each other should invariably be of the coolest sort , there was always the possibility that on an evening encounter he would be suddenly blurting and affectionate . 
Tito 's chief hope now was that Dolfo Spini had not caught sight of him , and the hope would have been well-founded if Spini had had no clearer view of him than he had caught of Spini . 
But , himself in shadow , he had seen Tito illuminated for an instant by the direct rays of the lamp , and Tito in his way was as strongly-marked a personage as the captain of the Compagnacci . 
Tito was not left to hope long . 
grated Spini 's harsh voice , in what he meant to be an under-tone , while his hand grasped Tito 's shoulder ; `` what did you run into hiding for ? 
If it had been in Tito 's nature to feel an access of rage , he would have felt it against this bull-faced accomplice , unfit either for a leader or a tool . 
`` The brute will not be satisfied till he has emptied the bag , '' thought Tito ; but aloud he said , -- `` Swallowed all as easily as you swallow a cup of Trebbiano . 
The torches were really coming , but they preceded a church dignitary who was returning homeward ; the suggestion of the dead body and the pestilence was Tito 's device for getting rid of Spini without telling him to go . 
The moment he had moved away , Tito turned to Romola , and said , quietly , -- `` Do not be alarmed by anything that bestia has said , my Romola . 
She was quivering with indignant resolution ; it was of no use for Tito to speak in that unconcerned way . 
She distrusted every word he could utter . 
`` Wait , at least , until these torches have passed , '' said Tito , with perfect self-command , but with a new rising of dislike to a wife who this time , he foresaw , might have the power of thwarting him in spite of the husband 's predominance . 
The torches passed , with the Vicario dell ' Arcivescovo , and due reverence was done by Tito , but Romola saw nothing outward . 
`` Tell me the truth , Tito -- this time tell me the truth , '' said Romola , in a low quivering voice . 
said Tito , with a slight touch of contempt , which was the vent of his annoyance ; `` since the truth is precisely that over which you have most reason to rejoice -- namely , that my knowing a plot of Spini 's enables me to secure the Frate from falling a victim to it . '' 
`` That I decline to tell , '' said Tito . 
Then she said , in a voice of anguish , `` Tito , it is of no use : I have no belief in you . '' 
She could just discern his action as he shrugged his shoulders , and spread out his palms in silence . 
That cold dislike which is the anger of unimpassioned beings was hardening within him . 
`` I am quite aware of what you would be likely to do , anima mia , '' said Tito , in the coolest of his liquid tones ; therefore if you have a small amount of reasoning at your disposal just now , consider that if you believe me in nothing else , you may believe me when I say I will take care of myself , and not put it in your power to ruin me . '' 
said Tito , in a bitter whisper , seizing her wrists with all his masculine force . 
Tito had heard them , and that was why he spoke in a whisper . 
But she was aware now of footsteps and voices , and her habitual sense of personal dignity made her at once yield to Tito 's movement towards leading her from the loggia . 
In this altered condition her mind began to dwell on the probabilities that would save her from any desperate course : Tito would not risk betrayal by her ; whatever had been his original intention , he must be determined now by the fact that she knew of the plot . 
And then , it was possible -- yes , she must cling to that possibility till it was disproved -- that Tito had never meant to aid in the betrayal of the Frate . 
Tito , on his side , was busy with thoughts , and did not speak again till they were near home . 
Then he said -- `` Well , Romola , have you now had time to recover calmness ? 
Tito assumed the tone which was just then the easiest to him , conjecturing that in Romola 's present mood persuasive deprecation would be lost upon her . 
`` Yes , Tito , '' she said , in a low voice , `` I think you believe that I would guard the Republic from further treachery . 
`` Such relations are inevitable to practical men , my Romola , '' said Tito , gratified by discerning the struggle within her . 
Tito 's clever arrangements had been unpleasantly frustrated by trivial incidents which could not enter into a clever man 's calculations . 
If Tito went forthwith to the monastery to warn Savonarola before the monks went to rest , his warning would follow so closely on his delivery of the forged letters that he could not escape unfavourable surmises . 
He could not warn Spini at once without telling him the true reason , since he could not immediately allege the discovery that Savonarola had changed his purpose ; and he knew Spini well enough to know that his understanding would discern nothing but that Tito had `` turned round '' and frustrated the plot . 
On the other hand , by deferring his warning to Savonarola until the early morning , he would be almost sure to lose the opportunity of warning Spini that the Frate had changed his mind ; and the band of Compagnacci would come back in all then rage of disappointment . 
Tito was annoyed . 
If he had had to smile it would have been an unusual effort to him . 
He was determined not to encounter Romola again , and he did not go home that night . 
Every one who trusted Tito was in danger ; it was useless to try and persuade herself of the contrary . 
And was not she selfishly listening to the promptings of her own pride , when she shrank from warning men against him ? 
Her imagination , in a state of morbid activity , conjured up possible schemes by which , after all , Tito would have eluded her threat ; and towards daybreak the rain became less violent , till at last it ceased , the breeze rose again and dispersed the clouds , and the morning fell clear on all the objects around her . 
Romola thought , with new distress , that she had failed to learn any guiding details from Tito , and it was already long past seven . 
A slight shock passed through Tito 's frame as he felt himself face to face with his wife . 
`` No , '' said Tito , feeling completely helpless before this woman , and needing all the self-command he possessed to preserve a countenance in which there should seem to be nothing stronger than surprise . 
Tito never had a feeling so near hatred as that with which his eyes followed Romola retreating up the steps . 
There were present not only genuine followers of the Frate , but Ser Ceccone , the notary , who at that time , like Tito himself , was secretly an agent of the Mediceans . 
It followed that he was not fond of Tito Melema . 
It was late in the afternoon when Tito returned home . 
The scheming duplicity which she had heard even her godfather allude to as inseparable from party tactics might be sufficient to account for the connection with Spini , without the supposition that Tito had ever meant to further the plot . 
The silence had been so complete , that Tito was ignorant of her having fled from him and come back again ; they had never approached an avowal of that past which , both in its young love and in the shock that shattered the love , lay locked away from them like a banquet-room where death had once broken the feast . 
She looked up at him with that submission in her glance which belonged to her state of self-reproof ; but the subtle change in his face and manner arrested her speech . 
Tito himself felt that a crisis was come in his married life . 
The husband 's determination to mastery , which lay deep below all blandness and beseechingness , had risen permanently to the surface now , and seemed to alter his face , as a face is altered by a hidden muscular tension with which a man is secretly throttling or stamping out the life from something feeble , yet dangerous . 
`` That is what I most desire , Tito , '' she said , faintly . 
`` You took a step this morning , '' Tito went on , `` which you must now yourself perceive to have been useless -- which exposed you to remark and may involve me in serious practical difficulties . '' 
Romola spoke these words in a fuller and firmer tone ; Tito , she hoped , would look less hard when she had expressed her regret , and then she could say other things . 
`` I wish you once for all to understand , '' he said , without any change of voice , `` that such collisions are incompatible with our position as husband and wife . 
`` That depends chiefly on you , Tito , '' said Romola , taking fire slightly . 
`` You would say , I suppose , '' answered Tito , `` that nothing is to occur in future which can excite your unreasonable suspicions . 
Tito had meditated a decisive move , and he had made it . 
Tito perceived his success . 
Romola felt as if her mind were held in a vice by Tito 's : the possibilities he had indicated were rising before her with terrible clearness . 
`` Remember , '' said Tito , with unsparing insistance , `` that your act of distrust towards me this morning might , for aught you knew , have had more fatal effects than that sacrifice of your husband which you have learned to contemplate without flinching . '' 
`` Tito , it is not so , '' Romola burst forth in a pleading tone , rising and going nearer to him , with a desperate resolution to speak out . 
The good-humoured , tolerant Tito , incapable of hatred , incapable almost of impatience , disposed always to be gentle towards the rest of the world , felt himself becoming strangely hard towards this wife whose presence had once been the strongest influence he had known . 
`` Tito , it would not be useless for us to speak openly , '' said Romola , with the sort of exasperation that comes from using living muscle against some lifeless insurmountable resistance . 
Tito , '' she went on , in a tone of agonized entreaty , `` if you would once tell me everything , let it be what it may -- I would not mind pain -- that there might be no wall between us ! 
This time there was a flash of emotion across Tito 's face . 
Tito went on . 
said Tito , still pale , but governing himself . 
Tito moved from his leaning posture , slowly took off his cap and mantle , and pushed back his hair . 
He was collecting himself for some final words . 
And Romola stood upright looking at him as she might have looked at some on-coming deadly force , to be met only by silent endurance . 
`` We need not refer to these matters again , Romola , '' he said , precisely in the same tone as that in which he had spoken at first . 
`` I have understood you too well , Tito . '' 
`` It is enough , '' he said , leaving the room . 
Tito , too , had a new thought in his mind after he had closed the door behind him . 
With the project of leaving Florence as soon as his life there had become a high enough stepping-stone to a life elsewhere , perhaps at Rome or Milan , there was now for the first time associated a desire to be free from Romola , and to leave her behind him . 
She had ceased to belong to the desirable furniture of his life : there was no possibility of an easy relation between them without genuineness on his part . 
But Tito had as little bent that way as a leopard has to lap milk when its teeth are grown . 
From all relations that were not easy and agreeable , we know that Tito shrank : why should he cling to them ? 
And Romola had made his relations difficult with others besides herself . 
He had had a troublesome interview with Dolfo Spini , who had come back in a rage after an ineffectual soaking with rain and long waiting in ambush , and that scene between Romola and himself at Nello 's door , once reported in Spini 's ear , might be a seed of something more unmanageable than suspicion . 
Yet Tito was not at ease . 
Tito 's hint had mingled so much dread with her interest in the progress of public affairs that she had begun to court ignorance rather than knowledge . 
On the last day of the Carnival , between ten and eleven in the morning , Romola walked out , according to promise , towards the Corso degli Albizzi , to fetch her cousin Brigida , that they might both be ready to start from the Via de ' Bardi early in the afternoon , and take their places at a window which Tito had had reserved for them in the Piazza della Signoria , where there was to be a scene of so new and striking a sort , that all Florentine eyes must desire to see it . 
After what had happened there with Baldassarre , Tito had thought it best for that and other reasons to find her a new home , but still in a quiet airy quarter , in a house bordering on the wide garden grounds north of the Porta Santa Croce . 
Tito had been with her the evening before , and she had kept back the entreaty which she felt to be swelling her heart and throat until she saw him in a state of radiant ease , with one arm round the sturdy Lillo , and the other resting gently on her own shoulder as she tried to make the tiny Ninna steady on her legs . 
She was sure then that the weariness with which he had come in and flung himself into his chair had quite melted away from his brow and lips . 
And certainly the charm of that bright , gentle-humoured Tito who woke up under the Loggia de ' Cerchi on a Lenten morning five years before , not having yet given any hostages to deceit , never returned so nearly as in the person of Naldo , seated in that straight-backed , carved arm-chair which he had provided for his comfort when he came to see Tessa and the children . 
Tito himself was surprised at the growing sense of relief which he felt in these moments . 
No guile was needed towards Tessa : she was too ignorant and too innocent to suspect him of anything . 
And the little voices calling him `` Babbo '' were very sweet in his ears for the short while that he heard them . 
When he thought of leaving Florence , he never thought of leaving Tessa and the little ones behind . 
He was very fond of these round-cheeked , wide-eyed human things that clung about him and knew no evil of him . 
Poor Romola , with all her self-sacrificing effort , was really helping to harden Tito 's nature by chilling it with a positive dislike which had beforehand seemed impossible in him ; but Tessa kept open the fountains of kindness . 
Lillo , whose great dark eyes looked all the darker because his curls were of a light brown like his mother 's , jumped off Babbo 's knee , and went forthwith to attest his intelligence by thumping Monna Lisa , who was shaking her head slowly over her spinning at the other end of the room . 
said Tito , laughing . 
said Tito , pinching her cheek ; `` those are your longings , are they ? 
`` No , indeed , Tessa , '' said Tito , looking rather grave , `` you must not think of taking the children into the crowded streets , else I shall be angry . '' 
`` Yes , after a sort , '' said Tito , `` as lively as a flight of cranes . 
said Tito , finding it difficult not to laugh , but thinking it necessary to look serious . 
Tito drew some small coins from his scarsella , and poured them into her palm . 
A mantle would have been oppressive , for it would have hidden a new necklace and a new clasp , mounted with silver , the only ornamental presents Tito had ever made her . 
Yet her descent from her upper story into the street had been watched , and she was being kept in sight as she walked by a person who had often waited in vain to see if it were not Tessa who lived in that house to which he had more than once dogged Tito . 
Baldassarre was carrying a package of yarn : he was constantly employed in that way , as a means of earning his scanty bread , and keeping the sacred fire of vengeance alive ; and he had come out of his way this morning , as he had often done before , that he might pass by the house to which he had followed Tito in the evening . 
His long imprisonment had so intensified his timid suspicion and his belief in some diabolic fortune favouring Tito , that he had not dared to pursue him , except under cover of a crowd or of the darkness ; he felt , with instinctive horror , that if Tito 's eyes fell upon him , he should again be held up to obloquy , again be dragged away ; his weapon would be taken from him , and he should be cast helpless into a prison-cell . 
His fierce purpose had become as stealthy as a serpent 's , which depends for its prey on one dart of the fang . 
Justice was weak and unfriended ; and he could not hear again the voice that pealed the promise of vengeance in the Duomo : he had been there again and again , but that voice , too , had apparently been stifled by cunning strong-armed wickedness . 
For a long while , Baldassarre 's ruling thought was to ascertain whether Tito still wore the armour , for now at last his fainting hope would have been contented with a successful stab on this side the grave ; but he would never risk his precious knife again . 
It was a weary time he had had to wait for the chance of answering this question by touching Tito 's back in the press of the street . 
Since then , the knowledge that the sharp steel was useless , and that he had no hope but in some new device , had fallen with leaden weight on his enfeebled mind . 
A dim vision of winning one of those two wives to aid him came before him continually , and continually slid away . 
If he could find her again , he might grasp some thread of a project , and work his way to more clearness . 
And this morning he had succeeded . 
He was quite certain now where this wife lived , and as he walked , bent a little under his burden of yearn , yet keeping the green and white figure in sight , his mind was dwelling upon her and her circumstances as feeble eyes dwell on lines and colours , trying to interpret them into consistent significance . 
If this wife of Tito 's loved him , she would have a sense of injury which Baldassarre 's mind dwelt on with keen longing , as if it would be the strength of another Will added to his own , the strength of another mind to form devices . 
And still surmounting every other thought was the dread inspired by Tito 's hints , lest that presentiment should be converted into knowledge , in such a way that she would be torn by irreconcilable claims . 
To some women it might have seemed an alarming risk to go to a comparatively solitary spot with a man who had some of the outward signs of that madness which Tito attributed to him . 
She divined the facts that lay behind that single word , and in the first moment there could be no check to the impulsive belief which sprang from her keen experience of Tito 's nature . 
Tito 's allegation of this man 's madness had come across her ; and where were the signs even of past refinement ? 
A vision had risen of what Tito was to her in those first days when she thought no more of wrong in him than a child thinks of poison in flowers . 
She had ventured on no words to Tito that would apprise him of her late interview with Baldassarre , and the revelation he had made to her . 
Baldassarre was evidently helpless : the thing to be feared was , not that he should injure Tito , but that Tito , coming upon his traces , should carry out some new scheme for ridding himself of the injured man who was a haunting dread to him . 
Romola felt that she could do nothing decisive until she had seen Baldassarre again , and learned the full truth about that `` other wife '' -- learned whether she were the wife to whom Tito was first bound . 
The possibilities about that other wife , which involved the worst wound to her hereditary pride , mingled themselves as a newly embittering suspicion with the earliest memories of her illusory love , eating away the lingering associations of tenderness with the past image of her husband ; and her irresistible belief in the rest of Baldassarre 's revelation made her shrink from Tito with a horror which would perhaps have urged some passionate speech in spite of herself if he had not been more than usually absent from home . 
Like many of the wealthier citizens in that time of pestilence , he spent the intervals of business chiefly in the country : the agreeable Melema was welcome at many villas , and since Romola had refused to leave the city , he had no need to provide a country residence of his own . 
The plague had almost disappeared , and the position of Savonarola was made more hopeful by a favourable magistracy , who were writing urgent vindicatory letters to Rome on his behalf , entreating the withdrawal of the Excommunication . 
She had sat down in Tito 's chair , and put out her arms towards the lad , whose eyes had followed her . 
The feeling that leaped out in that flush was something like exultation at the thought that the wife 's burden might be about to slip from her overladen shoulders ; that this little ignorant creature might prove to be Tito 's lawful wife . 
Perhaps before the next morning she might go to her godfather and say that she was not Tito Melema 's lawful wife -- that the vows which had bound her to strive after an impossible union had been made void beforehand . 
What else had Tito 's crime towards Baldassarre been but that abandonment working itself out to the most hideous extreme of falsity and ingratitude ? 
She would ask no counsel of her godfather or of Savonarola until she had made one determined effort to speak freely with Tito and obtain his consent that she should live apart from him . 
She desired not to leave him clandestinely again , or to forsake Florence . 
She would tell him that if he ever felt a real need of her , she would come back to him . 
A shuddering anticipation came over her that he would clothe a refusal in a sneering suggestion that she should enter a convent as the only mode of quitting him that would not be scandalous . 
He knew well that her mind revolted from that means of escape , not only because of her own repugnance to a narrow rule , but because all the cherished memories of her father forbade that she should adopt a mode of life which was associated with his deepest griefs and his bitterest dislike . 
Tito had announced his intention of coming home this evening . 
She would wait for him , and say what she had to say at once , for it was difficult to get his ear during the day . 
If he had the slightest suspicion that personal words were coming he slipped away with an appearance of unpremeditated ease . 
It was late before Tito came . 
She was glad of that change after the long hours of heat and motionless meditation ; but the coolness and exercise made her more intensely wakeful , and as she went with the lamp in her hand to open the door for Tito , he might well have been startled by the vividness of her eyes and the expression of painful resolution which was in contrast with her usual self-restrained quiescence before him . 
But it seemed that this excitement was just what he expected . 
Maso is gone to bed , '' he said , in a grave , quiet tone , interposing to close the door for her . 
Then , turning round , he said , looking at her more fully than he was wont , `` You have heard it all , I see . '' 
He , then , was inclined to take the initiative . 
He had been to Tessa . 
She led the way through the nearest door , set down her lamp , and turned towards him again . 
`` You must not think despairingly of the consequences , '' said Tito , in a tone of soothing encouragement , at which Romola stood wondering , until he added , `` The accused have too many family ties with all parties not to escape ; and Messer Bernardo del Nero has other things in his favour besides his age . '' 
said Tito , putting his hand under her arm that he might lead her to a seat ; but she seemed to be unaware of his touch . 
said Romola , scarcely above a whisper , as Tito made a slight pause . 
When Tito had named the men of whom she felt certain he was the confederate , she said , with a recoiling gesture and low-toned bitterness -- `` And you -- you are safe ? '' 
`` You are certainly an amiable wife , my Romola , '' said Tito , with the coldest irony . 
Tito had good reasons for saying that he was safe . 
In the last three months , during which he had foreseen the discovery of the Medicean conspirators as a probable event , he had had plenty of time to provide himself with resources . 
He had been strengthening his influence at Rome and at Milan , by being the medium of secret information and indirect measures against the Frate and the popular party ; he had cultivated more assiduously than ever the regard of this party by showing subtle evidence that his political convictions were entirely on their side ; and all the while , instead of withdrawing his agency from the Mediceans , he had sought to be more actively employed and exclusively trusted by them . 
It was easy to him to keep up this triple game . 
In their minds to deceive the opposite party was fair stratagem , to deceive their own party was a baseness to which they felt no temptation ; and in using Tito 's facile ability they were not keenly awake to the fact that the absence of traditional attachments which made him a convenient agent was also the absence of what among themselves was the chief guarantee of mutual honour . 
On the other hand , the Piagnoni of the popular party who had the directness that belongs to energetic conviction , were the more inclined to credit Tito with sincerity in his political adhesion to them , because he affected no religious sympathies . 
By virtue of these conditions the last three months had been a time of flattering success to Tito . 
The result he most cared for was the securing of a future position for himself at Rome or at Milan , for he had a growing determination , when the favourable moment should come , to quit Florence for one of those great capitals where life was easier , and the rewards of talent and learning were more splendid . 
At present , the scale dipped in favour of Milan ; and if within the year he could render certain services to Duke Ludovico Sforza , he had the prospect of a place at the Milanese court , which outweighed the advantages of Rome . 
The revelation of the Medicean conspiracy , then , had been a subject of forethought to Tito ; but he had not been able to foresee the mode in which it would be brought about . 
It was not possible , in spite of the careful pretexts with which his agency had been guarded , that Tito should escape implication : he had never expected this in case of any wide discovery concerning the Medicean plots . 
But his quick mind had soon traced out the course that would secure his own safety with the fewest unpleasant concomitants . 
His reckoning had not deceived him . 
That night before he returned home , he had secured the three results for which he most cared : he was to be freed from all proceedings against him on account of complicity with the Mediceans ; he was to retain his secretaryship for another year , unless he previously resigned it ; and , lastly , the price by which he had obtained these guarantees was to be kept as a State secret . 
The price would have been thought heavy by most men ; and Tito himself would rather not have paid it . 
He had applied himself first to win the mind of Francesco Valori , who was not only one of the Ten under whom he immediately held his secretaryship , but one of the special council appointed to investigate the evidence of the plot . 
To him , in a brief private interview , after obtaining a pledge of secrecy , Tito avowed his own agency for the Mediceans -- an agency induced by motives about which he was very frank , declaring at the same time that he had always believed their efforts futile , and that he sincerely preferred the maintenance of the popular government ; affected to confide to Valori , as a secret , his own personal dislike for Bernardo del Nero ; and after this preparation , came to the important statement that there was another Medicean plot , of which , if he obtained certain conditions from the government , he could by a journey to Siena , and into Romagna where Piero de ' Medici was again trying to gather forces , obtain documentary evidence to lay before the council . 
Still , some odour of the facts might escape in spite of precaution , and before Tito could incur the unpleasant consequences of acting against his friends , he must be assured of immunity from any prosecution as a Medicean , and from deprivation of office for a year to come . 
Valori 's mind was not intensely bent on the estimation of Tito 's conduct ; and it was intensely bent on procuring an extreme sentence against the five prisoners . 
He decided that Tito 's proposition ought to be accepted , laid it before his colleagues without disclosing Tito 's name , and won them over to his opinion . 
Late in the day Tito was admitted to an audience of the Special Council , and produced a deep sensation among them by revealing another plot for ensuring the mastery of Florence to Piero de ' Medici , which was to have been carried into execution in the middle of this very month of August . 
Among the twenty Florentines who bent their grave eyes on Tito , as he stood gracefully before them , speaking of startling things with easy periphrasis , and with that apparently unaffected admission of being actuated by motives short of the highest , which is often the intensest affectation , there were several whose minds were not too entirely pre-occupied for them to pass a new judgment on him in these new circumstances ; they silently concluded that this ingenious and serviceable Greek was in future rather to be used for public needs than for private intimacy . 
Some of these very men who passed a tacit judgment on Tito were shortly to be engaged in a memorable transaction that could by no means have been carried through without the use of an unscrupulousness as decided as his ; but , as their own bright Pulci had said for them , it is one thing to love the fruits of treachery , and another thing to love traitors . 
For Tito himself , he was not unaware that he had sunk a little in the estimate of the men who had accepted his services . 
He had that degree of self-contemplation which necessarily accompanies the habit of acting on well-considered reasons , of whatever quality ; and if he could have chosen , he would have declined to see himself disapproved by men of the world . 
He had never meant to be disapproved ; he had meant always to conduct himself so ably that if he acted in opposition to the standard of other men they should not be aware of it ; and the barrier between himself and Romola had been raised by the impossibility of such concealment with her . 
He shrank from condemnatory judgments as from a climate to which he could not adapt himself . 
He had really no rancour against Messer Bernardo del Nero ; he had a personal liking for Lorenzo Tornabuoni and Giannozzo Pucci . 
It was a faint prognostic of that hissing , gathered by Tito from certain indications when he was before the council , which gave his present conduct the character of an epoch to him , and made him dwell on it with argumentative vindication . 
It was not that he was taking a deeper step in wrong-doing , for it was not possible that he should feel any tie to the Mediceans to be stronger than the tie to his father ; but his conduct to his father had been hidden by successful lying : his present act did not admit of total concealment -- in its very nature it was a revelation . 
And Tito winced under his new liability to disesteem . 
a little patience , and in another year , or perhaps in half a year , he might turn his back on these hard , eager Florentines , with their futile quarrels and sinking fortunes . 
His brilliant success at Florence had had some ugly flaws in it : he had fallen in love with the wrong woman , and Baldassarre had come back under incalculable circumstances . 
But as Tito galloped with a loose rein towards Siena , he saw a future before him in which he would no longer be haunted by those mistakes . 
He had much money safe out of Florence already ; he was in the fresh ripeness of eight-and-twenty ; he was conscious of well-tried skill . 
Could he not strip himself of the past , as of rehearsal clothing , and throw away the old bundle , to robe himself for the real scene ? 
It did not enter into Tito 's meditations on the future , that , on issuing from the council chamber and descending the stairs , he had brushed against a man whose face he had not stayed to recognize in the lamplight . 
Tito soon returned from Siena , but almost immediately set out on another journey , from which he did not return till the seventeenth of August . 
Since she had parted from Tito on that memorable night , she had had no external proof to warrant her belief that he had won his safety by treachery ; on the contrary , she had had evidence that he was still trusted by the Mediceans and was believed by them to be accomplishing certain errands of theirs in Romagna , under cover of fulfilling a commission of the government . 
For the obscurity in which the evidence concerning the conspirators was shrouded allowed it to be understood that Tito had escaped any implication . 
But Romola 's suspicion was not to be dissipated : her horror of his conduct towards Baldassarre projected itself over every conception of his acts ; it was as if she had seen him committing a murder , and had had a diseased impression ever after that his hands were covered with fresh blood . 
In that moment her feeling towards Tito was forgotten . 
`` Possibly , '' said Tito , also rising , `` your own intention may have anticipated what I was going to say . 
She was not looking at Tito ; her eyes were bent with a vague gaze towards the ground , and she had no distinct consciousness that the words she heard came from her husband . 
`` Better lose no time , then , '' said Tito , with unmixed suavity , moving his cap round in his hands as if he were about to put it on and depart . 
`` It is too late , Tito . 
Tito did not answer immediately . 
When he did speak it was with a calculated caution , that was stimulated by alarm . 
He paused a moment , but she stood mute . 
He went on with the sense of mastery . 
She did not notice when Tito left the room , or know how long it was before the door opened to admit Monna Brigida . 
To her mind it was like reading a confirmation that Tito had won his safety by foul means ; his pretence of wishing that the Frate should exert himself on behalf of the condemned only helped the wretched conviction . 
Tito , too , was in the palace ; but Romola had not seen him . 
Since the evening of the seventeenth they had avoided each other , and Tito only knew by inference from the report of the Frate 's neutrality that her pleading had failed . 
`` It is excusable in a woman , who is doubtless beautiful , since she is the wife of Messer Tito , '' said a young French envoy , smiling and bowing to Tito , `` to think that her affections must overrule the good of the State , and that nobody is to be beheaded who is anybody 's cousin ; but such a view is not to be encouraged in the male population . 
Tito was one of those who remained behind . 
He had a native repugnance to sights of death and pain , and five days ago whenever he had thought of this execution as a possibility he had hoped that it would not take place , and that the utmost sentence would be exile : his own safety demanded no more . 
But now he felt that it would be a welcome guarantee of his security when he had learned that Bernardo del Nero 's head was off the shoulders . 
The new knowledge and new attitude towards him disclosed by Romola on the day of his return , had given him a new dread of the power she possessed to make his position insecure . 
If any act of hers only succeeded in making him an object of suspicion and odium , he foresaw not only frustration , but frustration under unpleasant circumstances . 
Therefore Tito had felt easier when he knew that the Eight had gone to the Bargello to order the instant erection of the scaffold . 
Tito felt them to be grim : even in the pursuit of what was agreeable , this paradoxical life forced upon him the desire for what was disagreeable . 
But he had had other experience of this sort , and as he heard through the open doorway the shuffle of many feet and the clanking of metal on the stairs , he was able to answer the questions of the young French envoy without showing signs of any other feeling than that of sad resignation to State necessities . 
Those sounds fell on Romola as if her power of hearing had been exalted along with every other sensibility of her nature . 
She needed no arm to support her ; she shed no tears . 
She felt that intensity of life which seems to transcend both grief and joy -- in which the mind seems to itself akin to elder forces that wrought out existence before the birth of pleasure and pain . 
Since her godfather 's fate had been decided , the previous struggle of feeling in her had given way to an identification of herself with him in these supreme moments : she was inwardly asserting for him that , if he suffered the punishment of treason , he did not deserve the name of traitor ; he was the victim to a collision between two kinds of faithfulness . 
`` It seems to me the plaudits are giving way to criticism , '' said Tito , who had been watching the scene attentively from an upper loggia in one of the houses opposite the church . 
A month after that Carnival , one morning near the end of March , Tito descended the marble steps of the Old Palace , bound on a pregnant errand to San Marco . 
But this morning , when Tito entered the Piazza di Santa Croce , he found , as he expected , that the people were pouring from the church in large numbers . 
Instead of dispersing , many of them concentrated themselves towards a particular spot near the entrance of the Franciscan monastery , and Tito took the same direction , threading the crowd with a careless and leisurely air , but keeping careful watch on that monastic entrance , as if he expected some object of interest to issue from it . 
There was a general turning of heads , which caused the talkers to descry Tito approaching in their rear . 
The exceptional reverence was really exacted by the splendour and grace of Tito 's appearance , which made his black mantle , with its gold fibula , look like a regal robe , and his ordinary black velvet cap like an entirely exceptional head-dress . 
-- here Tito lifted his shoulders and made an oratorical pause -- `` for which reason I have never been one to disbelieve the Frate , when he has said that he would enter the fire to prove his doctrine . 
As Tito looked round him during this appeal , there was a change in some of his audience very much like the change in an eager dog when he is invited to smell something pungent . 
The scene might have been too much for a gravity less under command than Tito 's . 
`` I do not deny it , '' said Tito , blandly . 
`` Assuredly , '' said Tito . 
`` Willingly , '' said Tito , smiling . 
`` Flagellabitur , '' Tito went on . 
At this moment , a tall personage , surmounted by a red feather , issued from the door of the convent , and exchanged an indifferent glance with Tito ; who , tossing his becchetto carelessly over his left shoulder , turned to his reading again , while the bystanders , with more timidity than respect , shrank to make a passage for Messer Dolfo Spini . 
`` Infideles convertentur ad Christum , '' Tito went on . 
`` Which doubtless will clear up everything , '' said Tito . 
If not -- '' Tito , as he turned away , raised his cap and bent slightly , with so easy an air that the movement seemed a natural prompting of deference . 
He quickened his pace as he left the Piazza , and after two or three turnings he paused in a quiet street before a door at which he gave a light and peculiar knock . 
It was opened by a young woman whom he chucked under the chin as he asked her if the Padrone was within , and he then passed , without further ceremony , through another door which stood ajar on his right hand . 
It admitted him into a handsome but untidy room , where Dolfo Spini sat playing with a fine stag-hound which alternately snuffed at a basket of pups and licked his hands with that affectionate disregard of her master 's morals sometimes held to be one of the most agreeable attributes of her sex . 
He just looked up as Tito entered , but continued his play , simply from that disposition to persistence in some irrelevant action , by which slow-witted sensual people seem to be continually counteracting their own purposes . 
Tito was patient . 
`` A handsome bracca that , '' he said quietly , standing with his thumbs in his belt . 
Presently he added , in that cool liquid tone which seemed mild , but compelled attention , `` When you have finished such caresses as can not possibly be deferred , my Dolfo , we will talk of business , if you please . 
he added , still more gruffly , pushing the dog aside ; then , starting from his seat , he stood close to Tito , and put a hand on his shoulder as he spoke . 
`` It is the peculiar stupidity of the tonsured skull that prevents them from seeing of how little consequence it is whether they are burned or not , '' said Tito . 
`` Oh , of course there are such things , '' said Tito , with a shrug ; `` but I have particular reasons for knowing that the Frate is not on such terms with the devil as can give him any confidence in this affair . 
`` It is true , '' said Tito , with bland gravity ; `` and I should not have troubled you with my trivial remark on the Frate 's ability , but that you may see how this will heighten the credit of your success against him at Rome and at Milan , which is sure to serve you in good stead when the city comes to change its policy . '' 
`` Well , thou art a good little demon , and shalt have good pay , '' said Spini , patronizingly ; whereupon he thought it only natural that the useful Greek adventurer should smile with gratification as he said , -- '' `` Of course , any advantage to me depends entirely on your -- '' `` We shall have our supper at my palace to-night , '' interrupted Spini , with a significant nod and an affectionate pat on Tito 's shoulder , `` and I shall expound the new scheme to them all . '' 
`` Pardon , my magnificent patron , '' said Tito ; `` the scheme has been the same from the first -- it has never varied except in your memory . 
`` One thing more , '' he said , as Tito was hastening away . 
Tito dared not say `` no . '' 
He knew his companion too well to trust him with advice when all Spini 's vanity and self-interest were not engaged in concealing the adviser . 
That suggestion of the notary 's intimate access to Spini caused Tito a passing twinge , interrupting his amused satisfaction in the success with which he made a tool of the man who fancied himself a patron . 
Tito 's nature made him peculiarly alive to circumstances that might be turned to his disadvantage ; his memory was much haunted by such possibilities , stimulating him to contrivances by which he might ward them off . 
And it was not likely that he should forget that October morning more than a year ago , when Romola had appeared suddenly before him at the door of Nello 's shop , and had compelled him to declare his certainty that Fra Girolamo was not going outside the gates . 
The fact that Ser Ceccone had been a witness of that scene , together with Tito 's perception that for some reason or other he was an object of dislike to the notary , had received a new importance from the recent turn of events . 
For after having been implicated in the Medicean plots , and found it advisable in consequence to retire into the country for some time , Ser Ceccone had of late , since his reappearance in the city , attached himself to the Arrabbiati , and cultivated the patronage of Dolfo Spini . 
Now that captain of the Compagnacci was much given , when in the company of intimates , to confidential narrative about his own doings , and if Ser Ceccone 's powers of combination were sharpened by enmity , he might gather some knowledge which he could use against Tito with very unpleasant results . 
It would be pitiable to be baulked in well-conducted schemes by an insignificant notary ; to be lamed by the sting of an insect whom he had offended unawares `` But , '' Tito said to himself , `` the man 's dislike to me can be nothing deeper than the ill-humour of a dinnerless dog ; I shall conquer it if I can make him prosperous . '' 
And he had been very glad of an opportunity which had presented itself of providing the notary with a temporary post as an extra cancelliere or registering secretary under the Ten , believing that with this sop and the expectation of more , the waspish cur must be quite cured of the disposition to bite him . 
But perfect scheming demands omniscience , and the notary 's envy had been stimulated into hatred by causes of which Tito knew nothing . 
That evening when Tito , returning from his critical audience with the Special Council , had brushed by Ser Ceccone on the stairs , the notary , who had only just returned from Pistoja , and learned the arrest of the conspirators , was bound on an errand which bore a humble resemblance to Tito 's . 
He also , without giving up a show of popular zeal , had been putting in the Medicean lottery . 
He also had been privy to the unexecuted plot , and was willing to tell what he knew , but knew much less to tell . 
He also would have been willing to go on treacherous errands , but a more eligible agent had forestalled him . 
Ser Ceccone wanted no evidence to make him attribute his failure to Tito , and his spite was the more bitter because the nature of the case compelled him to hold his peace about it . 
Nor was this the whole of his grudge against the flourishing Melema . 
On issuing from his hiding-place , and attaching himself to the Arrabbiati , he had earned some pay as one of the spies who reported information on Florentine affairs to the Milanese court ; but his pay had been small , notwithstanding his pains to write full letters , and he had lately been apprised that his news was seldom more than a late and imperfect edition of what was known already . 
Now Ser Ceccone had no positive knowledge that Tito had an underhand connection with the Arrabbiati and the Court of Milan , but he had a suspicion of which he chewed the cud with as strong a sense of flavour as if it had been a certainty . 
This fine-grown vigorous hatred could swallow the feeble opiate of Tito 's favours , and be as lively as ever after it . 
Why should Ser Ceccone like Melema any the better for doing him favours ? 
Tito , however , not being quite omniscient , felt now no more than a passing twinge of uneasiness at the suggestion of Ser Ceccone 's power to hurt him . 
It was only for a little while that he cared greatly about keeping clear of suspicions and hostility . 
He was now playing his final game in Florence , and the skill he was conscious of applying gave him a pleasure in it even apart from the expected winnings . 
The errand on which he was bent to San Marco was a stroke in which he felt so much confidence that he had already given notice to the Ten of his desire to resign his office at an indefinite period within the next month or two , and had obtained permission to make that resignation suddenly , if his affairs needed it , with the understanding that Niccolò Macchiavelli was to be his provisional substitute , if not his successor He was acting on hypothetic grounds , but this was the sort of action that had the keenest interest for his diplomatic mind . 
From a combination of general knowledge concerning Savonarola 's purposes with diligently observed details he had framed a conjecture which he was about to verify by this visit to San Marco . 
Tito 's visit to San Marco had been announced before-hand and he was at once conducted by Fra Niccolò , Savonarola 's secretary , up the spiral staircase into the long corridors lined with cells -- corridors where Fra Angelico 's frescoes , delicate as the rainbow on the melting cloud , startled the unaccustomed eye here and there , as if they had been sudden reflections cast from an ethereal world , where the Madonna sat crowned in her radiant glory , and the divine infant looked forth with perpetual promise . 
Savonarola drew on his mantle before he left his cell , as was his custom when he received visitors ; and with that immediate response to any appeal from without which belongs to a power-loving nature accustomed to make its power felt by speech , he met Tito with a glance as self-possessed and strong as if he had risen from resolutions instead of conflict . 
Tito did not kneel , but simply made a greeting of profound deference , which Savonarola received quietly without any sacerdotal words , and then desiring him to be seated , said at once . 
The muscles of Fra Girolamo 's face were eminently under command , as must be the case with all men whose personality is powerful , and in deliberate speech he was habitually cautious , confiding his intentions to none wihtout necessity . 
But under any strong mental stimulus , his eyes were liable to a dilation and added brilliancy that no strength of will could control . 
He looked steadily at Tito , and did not answer immediately , as if he had to consider whether the information he had just heard met any purpose of his . 
Tito , whose glance never seemed observant , but rarely let anything escape it , had expected precisely that dilation and flash of Savonarola 's eyes which he had noted on other occasions . 
This fact was not what Tito knew , buy what his hypothetic talent , constructing from subtle indications , had led him to guess and hope . 
In throwing out this difficulty Tito felt that the more unwillingness the Frate showed to trust him , the more certain he would be of his conjecture . 
Savonarola was silent ; but while he kept his mouth firm , a slight glow rose in his face with the suppressed excitement that was growing within him . 
It would be a critical moment -- that in which he delieverd the letter out of his own hands . 
`` It is most probable that Messer Domenico will return in time , '' said Tito , affecting to consider the Frate 's determination settled , and rising from his chair as he spoke . 
He took from it a letter on which Tito could see , but not read , an address in the Frate 's own minute and exquisite handwriting , still to be seen covering the margins of his Bibles . 
He took a large sheet of paper , enclosed the letter , and seadled it . 
`` Pardon me , father , '' said Tito , before Savonrola had time to speak , `` unless it were your decided wish , I would rather not incur the responsibility of carrying away the letter . 
Tito sat down to write the address while the Frate stood by him with folded arms , the glow mounting in his cheek , and his lip at last quivering . 
Tito rose and was about to move away , when Savonarola said abruptly . 
As Tito took the letter , Savonarola stood in suppressed excitement that forbade further speech . 
There seems to be a subtel emanation from passionate natures like his , making their mental states tell immediately on others ; when they are absentminded and inwardly excited there is silence in the air . 
Tito made a deep reverence and went out with the letter under his mantle . 
But before that happened another messenger , privately employed by Tito , had conveyed information in cipher , which was carried by a series of relays to armed agents of Ludovico Sforza , Duke of Milan , on the watch for the very purpose of intercepting despatches on the borders of the Milanese territory . 
There was no malignity in Tito Melema 's satisfaction : it was the mild self-gratulation of a man who has won a game that has employed hypothetic skill , not a game that has stirred the muscles and heated the blood . 
Tito had no more spite against him than against Saint Dominic . 
On the contrary , Fra Girolamo 's existence had been highly convenient to Tito Melema , furnishing him with that round of the ladder from which he was about to leap on to a new and smooth footing very much to his heart 's content . 
And everything now was in forward preparation for that leap : let one more sun rise and set , and Tito hoped to quit Florence . 
He had been so industrious that he felt at full leisure ot amuse himself with to-day 's comedy , which the thick-headed Dolfo Spini could never have brought about but for him . 
said Tito , as Savonarola descended the steps of the Loggia . 
The retreat was the same house and the same room in a quiet street between Santa Croce and San Marco , where we have seen Tito paying a secret visit to Dolfo Spini . 
For Tito 's anxiety to quit Florence had been stimulated by the events of the previous day : investigations would follow in which appeals might be made to him delaying his departure ; and in all delay he had an uneasy sense that there was danger . 
He descended the stone steps into the court-yard , he passed through the great doorway , not the same Tito , but nearly as brilliant as on the day when he had first entered that house and made the mistake of falling in love with Romola . 
Tito 's horrible dread was that he should be struck down or trampled on before he reached the open arches that surmount the centre of the bridge . 
There was one hope for him , that they might throw him over before they had wounded him or beaten the strength out of him ; and his whole sould was absorbed in that one hope and its obverse terror . 
In that moment Tito , with bloodless face and eyes dilated , had one of the self-preserving inspirations that come in extremity . 
Tito knew him ; but he did not know whether it was life or death that had brought him into the presence of his injured father . 
It might be death -- and death might mean this chill gloom with the face of the hideous past hanging over him for ever . 
He is the prisoner who clutched Melema on the steps of the Duomo . '' 
The memory of her life with Tito , of the conditions which made their real union impossible , while their external union imposed a set of false duties on her which were essentially the concealment and sanctioning of what her mind revolted from , told her that flight had been her only resource . 
Romola shrank with dread from the renewal of her proximity to Tito , and yet she was uneasy that she had put herself out of reach of knowing what was his fate -- uneasy that the moment might yet come when he would be in misery and need her . 
This Augustinian monk had been in the stream of people who had followed the waggon with its awful burthen into the Piazza , and he could tell her what was generally known in Florence -- that Tito had escaped from an assaulting mob by leaping into the Arno , but had been murdered on the bank by an old man who had long had an enmity against him . 
`` Tell me , cousin , '' she said abruptly , when Monna Brigida 's tongue had run quite away from troubles into projects of Romola 's living with her , `` has anything been seen or said since Tito 's death of a young woman with two little children ? '' 
was he so bad as that , my poor child ? 
Romola conjectured that Tito had sent her away beforehand to some spot where he had intended to join her , for she did not believe that he would willingly part with those children . 
Romola saw no further active search open to her ; for she had no knowledge that could serve as a starting-point for inquiry , and not only her innate reserve but a more noble sensitiveness made her shrink from assuming an attitude of generosity in the eyes of others by publishing Tessa 's relation to Tito along with her own desire to find her . 
It appeared there was much property of Tito 's to which she had a claim ; but she distrusted the cleanness of that money , and she had determined to make it all over to the State , except so much as was equal to the price of her father 's library . 
She learned that Tito had provided horses and mules to await him in San Gallo ; he was therefore going to leave Florence by the gate of San Gallo , and she determined , though without much confidence in the issue , to try and ascertain from the gate-keepers if they had observed any one corresponding to the description of Tessa , with her children , to have passed the gates before the morning of the ninth of April . 
