George , my father 's man , saw you and Gertrude at a shop this morning , and mentioned it to me as soon as he came out of town . 
`` My father is indulgent to me , '' replied Emily ; `` he would not object to any plan I had at heart , and I have become so much attached to Gertrude that she would be of great use and comfort to me . 
I trust , Mr. Flint , that you will recover a portion at least of your health and strength , and be spared to her for many a year yet ; but , in order that you may in no case feel any anxiety on her account , I take this opportunity to tell you that , if I should outlive you , she will be sure of a home with me . '' 
Two months have passed since Trueman Flint 's death , and Gertrude has for a week been domesticated in Mr. Graham 's family . 
He reminded her , however , of the inconvenience that would attend Gertrude 's coming to them at once , as they were soon to start on a visit to some distant relatives , from which they would not return until it was nearly time to remove to the city for the winter . 
Emily felt the force of this objection ; for , although Mrs. Ellis would be at home during their absence , she knew that , even were she willing to undertake the charge of Gertrude , she would be a very unfit person to console her in her time of sorrow and affliction . 
There was no help for it , however , for Mr. Graham 's plans were arranged , and must not be interfered with , unless she would make Gertrude 's coming , at the very outset , unwelcome and disagreeable . 
She started for town , therefore , the next morning , quite undecided what course to pursue , under the circumstances . 
She ran to meet Emily , and , with the politeness and kindness always observable in her , waited upon her into her neat parlor , guided her to a comfortable seat , placed in her hand a fan -LRB- for the weather was excessively warm -RRB- , and then proceeded to tell how thankful she was to see her , and how sorry she felt that Gertrude was not at home . 
Emily wonderingly asked where Gertrude was , and learned that she was out walking with Willie . 
A succession of inquiries followed , and a long and touching story was told by Mrs. Sullivan of Gertrude 's agony of grief , the impossibility of comforting her , and the fears the kind little woman had entertained lest the girl would die of sorrow . 
said Mrs. Sullivan , `` Gertrude is so dear to us , and we have suffered so much in seeing her suffer , that it was a kindness to ourselves to do all we could to comfort her . 
Why , I think she and Willie could not love each other better , if they were own brother and sister ; and Willie and Uncle True were great friends ; indeed , we shall all miss him very much . 
She spoke of Gertrude 's accompanying them as a matter of course , and enlarged upon the advantage it would be to her to breathe the country air , and ramble about the fields and woods , after all the fatigue and confinement she had endured . 
Emily , finding from her inquiries that Gertrude would be a welcome and expected guest , cordially approved of the visit , and also arranged with Mrs. Sullivan that she should remain under her care until Mr. Graham removed to Boston for the winter . 
She was then obliged to leave , without waiting for Gertrude 's return , though she left many a kind message for her , and placed in Mrs. Sullivan 's hands a sufficient sum of money to provide for all her wants and expenses . 
Gertrude went into the country , and abundance of novelty , of country fare , healthful exercise , and heartfelt kindness and sympathy , brought the color into her cheek , and calmness and composure , if not happiness , into her heart . 
Soon after the Sullivans ' return from their excursion , the Grahams removed to the city , and , as we have said before , Gertrude had now been with them about a week . 
`` Are you still standing at the window , Gertrude ? 
said Emily , coming towards the window , and lightly resting a hand on each of Gertrude 's shoulders . 
`` I love the stars , -- all of them , '' said Gertrude ; `` but my own star I love the best . '' 
Miss Emily -LRB- and here Gertrude lowered her voice to a whisper -RRB- , it seems to me as if that star were lit on purpose for me . 
`` I do , indeed , Gertrude ; and I think , if you make him an example , and try to live as good and patient a life as he did , that he will really be a lamp to your feet , and as bright a light to your path as if his face were shining down upon you through the star . '' 
`` I have no doubt , Gertrude , that you had some reason to feel provoked , and I believe you when you say that you were not the person to blame for the loss of the newspaper . 
`` I do not want to make you unhappy ; I do not want to be a trouble to anybody , '' said Gertrude , with some excitement ; `` I 'll go away ! 
`` Gertrude ! '' 
Her hands were still upon the young girl 's shoulders , and , as she spoke , she turned her round , and brought her face to face with herself . 
`` Gertrude , do you wish to leave your blind friend ? 
So touchingly grieved was the expression of the countenance that met her gaze , that Gertrude 's proud , hasty spirit was subdued . 
She threw her arms round Emily 's neck , and exclaimed , `` No ! 
`` Not for mysake , Gertrude , '' replied Emily , -- `` for your own sake ; for the sake of duty and of God . 
But do not think , Gertrude , because I remind you when you have done wrong , I despair of your becoming one day all I wish to see you . 
Gertrude colored to her temples , for it was Mrs. Ellis ' voice , and the tone in which she spoke was very derisive . 
`` Yes ; a young man wants to see Gertrude ; it 's that young Sullivan , I believe . '' 
exclaimed Gertrude , starting forward . 
`` You can go down and see him , Gertrude , '' said Emily . 
Mrs. Ellis made her collection , and then , seating herself on a couch at the side of the fireplace , with her colored rags in one hand and the white in the other , commenced speaking of Gertrude . 
said she ; `` send her to school ? '' 
She was capable , methodical and neat ; accustomed to a small family , and now for many years quite unaccustomedto children ; Gertrude was in her eyes an unwarrantable intruder -- one who must of necessity be continually in mischief , continually deranging her most cherished plans . 
Then , too , Gertrude had been reared , as Mrs. Ellis expressed it , among the lower classes ; and the housekeeper , who was not in reality very hard-hearted , and quite approved of all public and private charities , had a slight prejudice in favor of high birth . 
Owing to all these circumstances , Mrs. Ellis was far from being favorably disposed towards Gertrude ; and Gertrude , in her turn , was not yet prepared to love Mrs. Ellis very cordially . 
Willie still detained Gertrude in the little library below stairs , and Emily , with the moonlight now streaming across the chamber , which was none the less dark to her on that account , was indulging in a long train of meditation . 
She gave a quick start , as she always did when surprised , for her unusual preoccupation of mind had made Gertrude 's approaching step unheard . 
said Gertrude . 
At this , Gertrude broke forth with , `` O , Miss Emily ! 
It proved to be this : Willie had been to tell her that he was going away , going out of the country ; as Gertrude expressed it , to the very other end of the world -- to India . 
`` Miss Emily , '' said Gertrude , when she had acquainted her with the news , and become again somewhat calm , `` how can I bear to have Willie go away ? 
`` It is hard , Gertrude , '' said Emily , kindly , `` but it is no doubt for his advantage ; you must try and think of that . '' 
`` I know it , '' replied Gertrude , -- `` I suppose it is ; but , Miss Emily , you do not know how I love Willie . 
Gertrude had unconsciously touched a chord that vibrated through Emily 's whole frame . 
Her voice trembled as she answered , `` I , Gertrude ! 
I , too , had '' -- then checking herself , she paused abruptly , and there was a few moments ' silence , during which Emily got up , walked hastily to the window , pressed her aching head against the frosty glass , and then , returning to Gertrude , said , in a voice which had recovered its usual calmness , `` O , Gertrude ! 
`` So it is , '' said Gertrude ; `` I did not think of that . '' 
O , Gertrude ! 
Gertrude ! 
Gertrude 's eyes were fixed upon her friend with a very puzzled expression . 
`` Miss Emily , '' said she , `` I begin to think everybody has trouble . '' 
`` Certainly , Gertrude ; can you doubt it ? '' 
`` It isthe lot of humanity , Gertrude , and we must not expect it to be otherwise . '' 
Gertrude had often found in time and the soothing influences of religious faith some alleviation to her trials ; but never , until this night , did she feel a spirit not of earth , coming forth from the very chaos of sorrow into which she was plunged , and enkindling within her the flame of a higher and nobler sensation than she ever yet had cherished . 
When she left Emily that night , it was with a serenity which is strength ; and , if the spirit of Uncle True , looking down upon her through the bright star which she so loved , sighed to see the tears which glittered in her eyes , it was reässured by the smile of a heaven-lit light that played over her features , and when she sunk to slumber stamped them with the seal of peace . 
On one occasion , he returned home about dusk , and , his mother and grandfather both being out , and Gertrude having just put aside her sewing , he said to her , `` Come , Gerty , if you are not afraid of taking cold , come and sit on the door-step with me , as we used to in old times ; there will be no more such warm days as this , and we may never have another chance to sit there , and watch the moon rise above the old house at the corner . '' 
`` O , Willie , '' said Gertrude , `` do not speak of our never being together in this old place again ! 
Gertrude , you will take care of them , wo n't you ? '' 
said Gertrude , in amazement ; `` such a child as I ! 
`` Thank you , Willie , '' said Gertrude , `` for believing I shall do everything I can for them . 
`` If you believe that , Gertrude , it is because you do notknow . 
We pause not to dwell upon the last night the youth spent at home , his mother 's last evening prayer , her last morning benediction , the last breakfast they all took together -LRB- Gertrude among the rest -RRB- , or the final farewell embrace . 
And now , in truth , commenced Gertrude 's residence at Mr. Graham 's , hitherto in various ways interrupted . 
She at once commenced attending school , and until the spring labored diligently at her studies . 
Her life was varied by few incidents , for Emily never entertained much company , and in the winter scarcely any at all , and Gertrude formed no intimate acquaintances among her companious . 
With Emily she passed many happy hours ; they took walks , read books and talked much with each other , and Miss Graham found that in Gertrude 's observing eyes , and her feeling and glowing descriptions of everything that came within their gaze , she was herself renewing her acquaintance with the outside world . 
In errands of charity and merey Gertrude was either her attendant or her messenger ; and all the dependants of the family , from the cook to the little boy who called at the door for the fragments of broken bread , agreed in loving and praising the child , who , though neither beautiful nor elegantly dressed , had a fairy lightness of step , a grace of movement and a dignity of bearing , which impressed them all with the conviction that she was no beggar in spirit , whatever might be her birth or fortune , -- and all were in the invariable habit of addressing her as MissGertrude . 
Mrs. Eilis ' prejudices against her were still strong ; but , as Gertrude was always civil , and Emily prudently kept them much apart , no unhappy result had yet ensued . 
A letter , written by Gertrude to Willie , soon after they were established there , will give some idea of her situation and mode of life . 
After dwelling at some length upon the disappointment of not having yet heard from him , and giving an account of the last visit she had made his mother before leaving the city , she went on to say : `` But you made me promise , Willie , to write about myself , and said you should wish to hear everything that occurred at Mr. Graham 's which concerned me in any way ; so , if my letter is more tedious than usual , it is your own fault , for I have much to tell of our removal to D -- , and of the way in which we live here , so different from our life in Boston . 
Gertrude , are you sure you know the way from the omnibus-office in Boston to Mrs. Sullivan 's ? '' 
Without further hesitation , two tickets for the coach were put into Gertrude 's hand , and she set forth on her expedition with beaming eyes and a full heart . 
She found Mrs. Sullivan and Mr. Cooper well , and rejoicing over the happiest tidings from Willie , who , after a long but agreeable voyage , had reached Calcutta in health and safety . 
Gertrude stayed and dined with Mrs. Sullivan , and then hastened to the omnibus . 
Gertrude knew , at a glance , that the same original mind must have conceived and executed every article of the most remarkable toilet she had ever witnessed . 
But , before she could observe the details of that which was as a whole so wonderfully grotesque , her whole attention was arrested by the peculiar behavior of the old lady . 
She had been vainly endeavoring to mount the inconvenient vehicle , and now , with one foot upon the lower step , was calling to the driver to come to her assistance . 
`` Sir , '' said she , in measured tones , `` is this travelling equipage under your honorable charge ? '' 
ejaculated she , as she seated herself opposite Gertrude , and began to arrange her veil and other draperies , `` that individual is not versed in the art of assisting a lady without detriment to her habiliments . 
added she , in the same breath , `` I 've lost my parasol ! '' 
She rose as she spoke ; but the sudden starting of the coach threw her off her balance , and she would have fallen , had it not been for Gertrude , who caught her by the arm and reseated her , saying , as she did so , `` Do not be alarmed madam ; here is the parasol . '' 
As she spoke she drew into view the missing article , which , though nearly the size of an umbrella , was fastened to the old lady 's waist by a green ribbon , and , having slipped out of place , was supposed lost . 
And not a parasol only did she thus bring to light ; numerous other articles , arranged in the same manner , and connected with the same green string , now met Gertrude 's astonished eyes ; -- a reticule of unusual dimensions and a great variety of colors , a black lace cap , a large feather fan , a roll of fancy paper , and several other articles . 
They were partly hidden under a thin black silk shawl , and Gertrude began to think her companion had been on a pilfering expedition . 
If so , however , the culprit seemed remarkably at her ease , for before the coach had gone many steps she deliberately placed her feet on the opposite seat , and proceeded to make herself comfortable . 
In the first place , much to Gertrude 's horror , she took out all her teeth and put them in her work-bag ; then drew off a pair of black silk gloves , and replaced them by cotton ones ; removed her lace veil , folded and pinned it to the green string . 
She next untied her bonnet , threw over it , as a protection from the dust , a large cotton handkerchief , and , with some difficulty , unloosing her fan , applied herself diligently to the use of it , closing her eyes as she did so , and evidently intending to go to sleep . 
She probably did fall into a doze , for she was very quiet , and Gertrude , occupied with her own thoughts , and with observing some heavy clouds that were arising from the west , forgot to observe her fellow-traveller , until she was startled by a hand suddenly laid upon her own , and an abrupt exclamation of `` My dear young damsel , do not those dark shadows betoken adverse weather ? '' 
`` I think it will rain very soon , '' replied Gertrude . 
inquired Gertrude , her compassion excited by the old lady 's evident distress . 
The old lady , moved by a deep sympathy , drew nearer to Gertrude , saying , in the most doleful accents , `` Alas for the delicate whiteness of your bonnet-ribbon ! '' 
Gertrude placed her ticket in the driver 's hand , and would have started at once on her walk , but was prevented by the old lady , who grasped her dress , and begged her to wait for her , as she was going the same way . 
Gertrude was impatient , for she was every moment expecting to see the rain pour in torrents ; but at last , the matter being compromised between the driver and his closely-calculating passenger , she was permitted to proceed . 
They had walked about a quarter of a mile , and that at a very slow rate , when the rain commenced falling ; and now Gertrude was called upon to unloose the huge parasol , and carry it over her companion and herself . 
At this moment Gertrude heard a step behind them , and , turning , she saw George , Mr. Graham 's man , running in the direction of the house . 
He recognized her at once , and exclaimed , `` Miss Gertrude , you 'll be wet through ; and Miss Pace too , '' added he , seeing Gerty 's companion . 
So saying , he caught Miss Pace in his arms , and signing to Gertrude to follow , rushed across the street , and hurrying on to a cottage near by , did not stop until he had placed the old lady in safety beneath her own porch ; and Gerty at the same instant gained its shelter . 
Miss Pace -- for such was the old lady 's name -- was so bewildered that it took her some minutes to recover her consciousness ; and , in the mean time , it was arranged that Gertrude should stop where she was for an hour or two , and that George should call for her when he passed that way with the carriage , on his return from the dépôt , where he went regularly on three afternoons in the week for Mr. Graham . 
But though , through her travelling propensities and her regular attendance at church , she was well known , Gertrude was , perhaps , the first visitor that had ever entered her house ; and she , as we have seen , could scarcely be said to have come by invitation . 
Even when she was at the very door , she found herself obliged to take the old lady 's key , unlock and open it herself , and finally lead her hostess into the parlor , and help her off with her innumerable capes , shawls and veils . 
Once come to a distinct consciousness of her situation , however , and Miss Patty Pace conducted herself with all the elegant politeness for which she was remarkable . 
Suffering though she evidently was with a thousand regrets at the trying experience her own clothes had sustained , she commanded herself sufficiently to express nearly as many fears lest Gertrude had ruined every article of her dress . 
It was only after many assurances from the latter that her boots were scarcely wet at all , her gingham dress and cape not likely to be hurt by rain , and her nice straw bonnet safe under the scarf she had thrown over it , that Miss Patty could be prevailed upon to so far forget the duties of a hostess as to retire and change her lace flounces for something more suitable for homewear . 
As soon as she left the room , Gertrude , whose curiosity was wonderfully excited , hastened to take a nearer view of numbers of articles , both of ornament and use , which had already attracted her attention from their odd and singular appearance . 
Gertrude 's quick and observing eye was revelling amid the few relies of ancient elegance , and the numerous specimens of folly and bad taste , with which the room was filled , when the old lady returned . 
She held in her hand a tumbler of pepper and water , and begged her visitor to drink , assuring her it would warm her stomach and prevent her taking cold ; and when Gertrude , who could only with great difficulty keep from laughing in her face , declined the beverage , Miss Patty seated herself , and , while enjoying the refreshment , carried on a conversation which at one moment satisfied her visitor she was a woman of sense , and the next persuaded her that she was either foolish or insane . 
The impression which Gertrude made upon Miss Patty , however , was more decided . 
When George came for Gertrude , Miss Pace , who seemed really sorry to part with her , cordially invited her to come again , and Gertrude promised to do so . 
The satisfactory news from Willie , and the amusing adventures of the afternoon , had given to Gertrude such a feeling of buoyancy and light-heartedness , that she bounded into the house , and up the stairs , with that fairy quickness Uncle True had so loved to see in her , and which , since his death , her subdued spirits had rarely permitted her to exercise . 
She hastened to her own room to remove her bonnet and change her dress before seeking Emily , to whom she longed to communicate the events of the day . 
At the door of her room she met Bridget , the housemaid , with a dust-pan , hand-broom , etc. . 
On inquiring what was going on there at this unusual hour , she learned that during her absence her room , which had since their removal been in some confusion , owing to Mrs. Ellis ' not having decided what furniture should be placed there , had been subjected to a thorough and comprehensive system of spring cleaning . 
When Gertrude went from Mrs. Sullivan 's to Mr. Graham 's house in the city , she carried with her , beside a trunk containing her wardrobe , an old bandbox , which she stored away on the shelf of a closet in her chamber . 
As there was no closet or other hiding-place in Gertrude 's new room , she placed it in a corner behind the bed , and the evening before her expedition to the city had been engaged in removing and inspecting a part of its contents . 
Each article was endeared to her by the charm of old association , and many a tear had the little maiden shed over her stock of valuables . 
As the surveyed a severe contusion on the back of the head , the effect of an inadvertent knock given it by True himself , and remembered how patiently the dear old man labored to repair the injury , she felt that she would not part with the much-valued memento for the world . 
There , too , were his pipes , of common clay , and dark with smoke and age ; but , as she thought how much comfort they had been to him , she felt that the possession of them was a consolation to her . 
She had brought away too his lantern , for she had not forgotten its pleasant light , the first that ever fell upon the darkness of her life ; nor could she leave behind an old fur cap , beneath which she had often sought a kindly smile , and , never having sought in vain , could hardly realize that there was not one for her still hidden beneath its crown . 
There were some toys too , and picture-books , gifts from Willie , a little basket he had carved for her from a nut , and a few other trifles . 
All these things , excepting the lantern and cap , Gertrude had left upon the mantel-piece ; and now , upon entering the room , her eye at once sought her treasures . 
She ran towards the corner , where she had left the old box . 
To rush after the retreating house-maid , call her back , and pour forth a succession of eager inquiries , was but the work of an instant . 
Bridget was a new comer , a remarkably stupid specimen , but Gertrude contrived to obtain from her all the information she needed . 
Gertrude allowed Bridget to depart unaware of the greatness of her loss ; then , shutting the door , she threw herself upon the bed , and gave way to a violent fit of weeping . 
Gertrude was not afraid of anybody . 
Whatever it might be , it was something that had , on the whole , a soothing influence ; for , after every fresh struggle , she grew calmer , and presently , rising , seated herself in a chair by the window , leaned her head on her hand , and looked out . 
A wonderful composure stole into Gertrude 's heart , and , ere she had sat there many minutes , she felt `` the grace that brings peace succeed to the passions that produce trouble . '' 
She had conquered ; she had achieved the greatest of earth 's victories , a victory over herself . 
Consequently , Gertrude took tea alone with Mrs. Ellis . 
The latter , though unaware of the great value Gertrude attached to her old relies , was conscious she had done an unkind thing ; and as the injured party gave no evidence of anger or ill will , not even mentioning the subject , the aggressor felt more uncomfortable and mortified than she would have been willing to allow . 
The matter was never recurred to , but Mrs. Ellis experienced a stinging consciousness of the fact that Gertrude had shown a superiority to herself in point of forbearance . 
The next day , Mrs. Prime , the cook , came to the door of Emily 's room , and obtaining a ready admittance , produced the little basket , made of a nut , saying , `` I wonder now , Miss Emily , where Miss Gertrude is ; for I 've found her little basket in the coal-hod , and I guess she 'll be right glad o n't -- ' t a n't hurt a mite . '' 
and the cook , placing it in her hands , proceeded with cagerness to give an account of the destruction of Gertrude 's property , which she had herself witnessed with great indignation . 
She also gave a piteous description of the distress the young girl manifested in her questioning of Bridget , which the sympathizing cook had overheard from her own not very distant chamber . 
As Emily listened to the story , she well remembered having thought , the previous afternoon , that she heard Gertrude sobbing in her room , which on one side adjoined her own , but that she afterwards concluded herself to have been mistaken . 
`` Go , '' said she , `` and carry the basket to Gertrude ; she is in the little library ; but please , Mrs. Prime , do n't tell her that you have mentioned the matter to me . '' 
Emily expected , for several days , to hear from Gertrude the story of her injuries ; but Gertrude kept her trouble to herself , and bore it in silence . 
From this time she continued to experience more and more the power of governing herself ; and , with each new effort gaining new strength , became at last a wonder to those who knew the temperament she had had to contend with . 
She was now nearly fourteen years old , and so rapid had been her recent growth that , instead of being below the usual stature , she was taller than most girls of her age . 
Freedom from study , and plenty of air and exercise , prevented her , however , from suffering from this circumstance . 
Her garden was a source of great pleasure to her , and , flowers seeming to prosper under her careful training , she had always a bouquet ready to place by Emily 's plate at breakfast-time . 
Judging from the numbers of people that she talked about to Gertrude , the latter concluded she must be acquainted with everybody in Boston . 
She had , in her youth , learned an upholsterer 's trade , which she had practised for many years in the employment -LRB- as she said -RRB- of the first families in the city ; and so observing was she , and so acute in her judgment , that a report at one time prevailed that Miss Pace had eyes in the back of her head , and two pair of ears . 
Miss Patty labored under one great and absorbing regret , and frequently expatiated to Gertrude on the subject ; it was , that she was without a companion . 
`` Ah , Miss Gertrude , '' she would sometimes exclaim , seeming for the time quite forgetful of her age and infirmities , `` I should do vastly well in this world , if I only had a companion ; '' and here , with a slight toss of the head , and a little , smirking air , she would add , in a whisper , `` and you must know , my dear , I somewhat meditate matrimony . '' 
Then , seeing Gertrude 's look of surprise and amusement , she would apologize for having so long delayed fulfilling what had always been her intention ; and , at the same time that she admitted not being as young as she had once been , would usually close with the remark , `` It is true , time is inexorable ; but I cling to life , Miss Gertrude , I cling to life , and may marry yet . '' 
On the subject of fashion , too , she would declaim at great length , avowing , for her own part , a rigid determination to be modern , whatever the cost might be . 
Gertrude could not fail to observe that she had failed in this intention as signally as in that of securing a youthful swain ; and she was also gradually led to conclude that Miss Pace , whatever might be her means , was a terrible miser . 
Emily , who knew the old lady very well , and had often employed her , did not oppose Gertrude 's visits to the cottage , and sometimes accompanied her ; for Emily loved to be amused , and Miss Patty 's quaint conversation was as great a treat to her as to Gertrude . 
The summer was passing away most happily , and Gertrude , in the constant enjoyment of Emily 's society , and in the consciousness that she was , in various ways , rendering herself useful and important to this excellent friend , was finding in every day new causes of contentment and rejoicing , when a seal was suddenly set to all her pleasure . 
Emily was taken ill with a fever , and Gertrude , on occasion of her first undertaking to enter the sick room , and share in its duties , was rudely repulsed by Mrs. Ellis , who had constituted herself sole nurse , and who declared , when the poor girl pleaded hard to be admitted , that the fever was catching , and Miss Emily did not want her there , -- that when she was sick she never wanted any one about her but herself . 
For three or four days Gertrude wandered about the house , inconsolable . 
On the fifth morning after her banishment from the room , she saw Mrs. Prime , the cook , going up stairs with some gruel ; and , thrusting into her hand some beautiful rose-buds , which she had just gathered , she begged her to give them to Emily , and ask if she might not come in and see her . 
I would not want to go there , Miss Gertrude ; I would n't insure you but what she 'd bite your head off . '' 
asked Gertrude , looking quite grieved . 
Gertrude sauntered out into the garden . 
She had nothing to do but think anxiously about Emily , who , she feared , was very ill . 
So the garden was the only thing left for her , and there she spent the rest of the morning ; and not that morning only , but many others ; for Emily continued to grow worse , and a fortnight passed away without Gertrude 's seeing her , or having any other intimation regarding her health than Mrs. Ellis ' occasional report to Mr. Graham , who , however , as he saw the physician every day , and made frequent visits to his daughter himself , did not require that particular information which Gertrude was eager to obtain . 
Once or twice she had ventured to question Mrs. Ellis , whose only reply was , `` Do n't bother me with questions ! 
One afternoon , Gertrude was sitting in a large summer-house at the lower end of the garden ; her own piece of ground , fragrant with mignonette and verbena , was close by , and she was busily engaged in tying up and marking some little papers of seeds , the gleanings from various seed-vessels , when she was startled by hearing a step close beside her , and , looking up , saw Dr. Jeremy , the family physician , just entering the building . 
`` Yes , sir , '' replied Gerty , looking up and blushing , as she saw the doctor 's keen black eyes scrutinizing her face . 
`` Doctor Jeremy , '' asked Gertrude , in an earnest voice , `` will you please to tell me how Miss Emily is ? '' 
exclaimed Gertrude , starting up ; `` I wish I might ! '' 
As Gertrude , full of mirth , watched the proceeding , she observed the doctor stumble over some obstacle , and only save himself from falling by stretching forth both hands , and sustaining himself against the huge trunk of the fine old tree . 
`` I call myself and my little friend here remarkably honest people , '' replied the doctor , winking at Gertrude , who , standing behind the wall and looking over , was laughing heartily at the way in which the doctor had got caught . 
The young man , observing the direction of the latter 's eyes , turned and gave a broad stare at Gertrude 's merry face . 
`` Glad of it , '' said the boy , indolently throwing himself on the grass , and still staring at Gertrude . 
Having emptied his pockets upon the seat of the summer-house , and invited Gertrude to partake , the doctor , still laughing so immoderately at his boyish feat that he could scarcely eat the fruit , happened to bethink himself of the lateness of the hour . 
`` I do n't know , sir , '' replied Gertrude , to whom the question seemed to be addressed . 
Gertrude was naturally courageous ; she had never driven before , but , having no fears , she succeeded admirably , and , being often afterwards called upon by Dr. Jeremy to perform the same service , she soon became skilful in the use of the reins , -- an accomplishment not always particularly desirable in a lady , but which , in her case , proved very useful . 
Dr. Jeremy was true to his promise of installing Gertrude in Emily 's sick room . 
The very next visit he made to his patient , he spoke in terms of the highest praise of Gertrude 's devotion to her old uncle , and her capability as a nurse , and asked why she had been expelled from the chamber . 
So I 'll send her to Jericho to-day , and bring my little Gertrude up here . 
She 's a quiet little mouse , and has got a head on her shoulders . '' 
It is not to be supposed that Gertrude could provide for Emily 's wants any better , or even as well , as Mrs. Ellis ; and Emily , knowing this , took care that the housekeeper should not be sent to Jericho ; for , though Dr. Jeremy , a man of strong prejudices , did not like her , she was excellent in her department , and could not be dispensed with . 
So , though Emily , Dr. Jeremy and Gertrude , were all made happy by the free admission of the latter to the sick room , the housekeeper , unhandsomely as she had behaved , was never conscious that any one knew the wrong she had done to Gertrude , in keeping her out of sight and giving a false reason for her continued absence . 
There was a watchfulness , a care , a tenderness , in Gertrude , which only the warmest love could have dictated . 
`` Let Gertrude drive you ; she is a capital hand . '' 
`` Gertrude , '' said Emily , smiling , `` I believe you are a great favorite of the doctor 's ; he thinks you can do anything . 
`` Has n't she driven me to the dépôt , every day , for these six weeks ? '' 
Upon her being assured this was the case , and the doctor insisting that there was no danger , Charlie was harnessed into the carryall , and Emily and Mrs. Ellis went out to drive with Gertrude ; an experiment which , being often repeated , was a source of health to the invalid , and pleasure to them all . 
In the early autumn , when Emily 's health was quite restored , old Charlie was daily called into requisition ; sometimes Mrs. Ellis accompanied them , but , as she was often engaged about household duties , they usually went by themselves , in a large , old-fashioned buggy , and Emily declared that Gertrude 's learning to drive had proved one of the greatest sources of happiness she had known for years . 
Once or twice , in the course of the summer and autumn , Gertrude saw again the lazy youth whom Dr. Jeremy had stumbled over when he went to steal pears . 
Once he came and sat on the wall while she was at work in her garden , professed himself astonished at her activity , talked a little with her about her flowers , asked some questions concerning her friend Dr. Jeremy , and ended by requesting to know her name . 
Gertrude blushed ; she was a little sensitive about her name , and , though she always went by that of Flint , and did not , on ordinary occasions , think much about it , she could not fail to remember , when the question was put to her point blank , that she had , in reality , no surname of her own . 
Emily had endeavored to find Nan Grant , in order to learn from her something of Gertrude 's early history ; but Nan had left her old habitation , and , for years , nothing had been heard of her . 
Gertrude , as we have said , blushed on being asked her name , but replied , with dignity , that she would tell hers , provided her new acquaintance would return the compliment . 
said the youth , impudently , `` and do n't care about knowing yours , either ; '' saying which , he kicked an apple with his foot , and walked off , still kicking it before him , leaving Gertrude to the conclusion that he was the most ill-bred person she had ever seen . 
Itwas the twilight of a sultry September day , and , wearied with many hours ' endurance of an excessive heat , unlooked for so late in the season , Emily Graham sat on the front piazza of her father 's house , inhaling a delicious and refreshing breeze , which had just sprung up . 
The western sky was still streaked with brilliant lines of red , the lingering effects of a gorgeous sunset , while the moon , now nearly at the full , and triumphing in the close of day and the commencement of her nightly reign , cast her full beams upon Emily 's white dress , and gave to the beautiful hand and arm , which , escaping from the draperied sleeve , rested on the side of her rustic arm-chair , the semblance of polished marble . 
Ten years had passed since Emily was first introduced to the reader ; and yet , so slight were the changes wrought by time upon her face and figure , that she looked scarcely any older than on the occasion of her first meeting Gertrude in Mr. Arnold 's church . 
She had even then experienced much of the sorrow of life , and learned how to distil from the bitter dregs of suffering a balm for every pain . 
Even then , that experience , and the blessed knowledge she had gained from it , had both stamped themselves upon her countenance : the one in a sobered and subdued expression , which usually belongs to more mature years ; the other , in that sweet , calm smile of trust and hope , which proclaims the votary of Heaven . 
Therefore time had little power upon her , and as she was then so was she now ; lovely in her outward appearance , and still more lovely in heart and life . 
A close observer might , however , perceive in her a greater degree of buoyancy of spirit , keenness of interest in what was going on about her , and evident enjoyment of life , than she had formerly evineed ; and this was due , as Emily felt and acknowledged , to her recent close companionship with one to whom she was bound by the warmest affection , and who , by her lively sympathy , her constant devotion , her natural appreciation of the entertaining and the ludicrous , as well as the beautiful and the true , and her earnest and unsparing efforts to bring her much-loved friend into communion with everything she herself enjoyed , had called into play faculties which blindness had rendered almost dormant , and become what Uncle True bade her be , eyes to her benefactor . 
None but Emily 's quick ear could have distinguished the light step ; but she hears it at once , and , rising , goes to meet the new comer , whom we must pause to introduce , for , though an old acquaintance , time has not left herunchanged , and it would be hard to recognize in her our little quondam Gertrude . 
The present Gertrude -- for she it is -- has now become a young lady . 
She is some inches taller than Emily , and her figure is slight and delicate . 
Gertrude 's eyes have retained their old lustre , and do not now look too large for her face ; and , if her mouth be less classically formed than the strict rule of beauty would commend , one can easily forgive that , in consideration of two rows of small pearly teeth , which are as regular and even as a string of beads . 
Her neat dress of spotted muslin fits close to her throat , and her simple black mantle does not conceal the roundness of her taper waist . 
Is Gertrude a beauty ? 
Hers is a face and form about which there would be a thousand different opinions , and out of the whole number few would pronounce her beautiful . 
Such a face was Gertrude 's . 
There are forms , too , which , though neither dignified , queenly or fairy-like , possess a grace , an ease , a self-possession , a power of moving lightly and airily in their sphere , and never being in any one 's way , -- and such a form was Gertrude 's . 
Whatever charm these attractions might give her , -- and there were those who estimated it highly , -- it was undoubtedly greatly enhanced by an utter unconsciousness , on her part , of possessing any attractions at all . 
The early-engrafted belief in her own personal plainness had not yet deserted her ; but she no longer felt the mortification she had formerly labored under on that account . 
As she perceived Miss Graham coming to meet her , she quick-ened her pace , and , joining her near the door-step , where a path turning to the right led into the garden , passed her arm affectionately over Emily 's shoulder , in a manner which the latter 's blindness , and Gertrude 's superior height and ability to act as guide , had of late rendered usual , and , turning into the walk which led from the house , said , while she drew the shawl closer around her blind friend , `` Here I am again , Emily ! 
At last Emily said , `` Well , Gertrude , have you nothing to tell me ? '' 
`` And I , on the other hand , Gertrude , have been reproaching myself for allowing you to have any knowledge of my feeling in the matter , lest I should be influencing you against your duty , or , at least , making it harder for you to fulfil . 
I feel that you are right , Gertrude , and that , instead of opposing , I ought to do everything I can to forward your plans . '' 
exclaimed Gertrude , vehemently , `` if you thought so from what I told you yesterday , you would be convinced , had you seen and heard all that I have to-day . '' 
`` But , do you think you can do any good , Gertrude ? '' 
`` She could do nothing with him , '' continued Gertrude , `` and had given up in despair . '' 
`` I had observed it for a long time , '' remarked Gertrude , `` but never spoke of it to her ; and I do not think she was in the least aware of it , until about the time of their removal , when the breaking up of old associations had a sad effect upon poor Mr. Cooper . '' 
`` Do n't you think , Gertrude , that the pulling down of the church , and his consequent loss of employment , were a great injury to his mind ? '' 
`` How old is he , Gertrude ? '' 
`` You speak confidently of being in town , Gertrude ; so I suppose it is all arranged . '' 
My only dread is in the thought of leaving you ; and the only fear I have is , that you will miss me , and perhaps feel as if -- '' `` I know what you would say , Gertrude . 
`` She will have a treasure in you , Gertrude ; I know that , very well . '' 
But when I came home , and saw you , and thought of your going so far away , and of the length of time it might be before I should live with you again , I felt as if -- '' Gertrude could say no more . 
You are in the path of duty , Gertrude , and will be rewarded by the approbation of your own conscience , if in no other way . '' 
`` Did you get her buttons in town , Gertrude ? '' 
`` Yes , I found some that were an excellent match for the dress ; she probably wants to know what success I had ; but how can I go in ? '' 
Accordingly , when Gertrude entered the room half an hour afterwards , there was no evidence in her appearance of any unusual distress of mind . 
Mr. Bruce rose and offered his chair , at the same time that Mr. Graham pointed to a vacant window-seat near him , and said , kindly , `` Here is a place for you , Gertrude . '' 
remarked Gertrude , in a half-compassionate , half-ironical tone of voice . 
Mr. Bruce looked up , to judge , if possible , from her countenance , whether she were serious or not ; but , there being little light in the room , on account of the warmth of the evening , he could not decide the question in his mind , and therefore replied , `` I dislike the heat , Miss Gertrude , and why should I expose myself to it unnecessarily ? '' 
`` If I had gone out of my way for the sake of accompanying my escort , the escort would have been a very doubtful advantage , '' said Gertrude , laughing . 
`` How very practical you are , Miss Gertrude ! 
`` Why not acknowledge the truth , Miss Gertrude , and confess that you wear it in order to look so very fanciful and picturesque that the neighbors ' slumbers are disturbed by the very thoughts of it ? 
`` Very little I think it must have been ; or I have but a little memory , '' said Gertrude , laughing . 
`` O , Miss Gertrude ! 
Gertrude , availing herself of Mr. Graham 's approach , tried to make her escape and join the ladies at the sofa ; but Mr. Bruce , who had risen on Mr. Graham 's addressing him , saw her intention , and frustrated it by placing himself in the way , so that she could not pass him without positive rudeness . 
Gertrude was now permitted to relate to Mrs. Bruce the results of the shopping which she had undertaken on her account , and display the buttons , which proved very satisfactory . 
`` I hope so , madam , -- we have been talking of it for some time ; it will be an excellent thing for Emily , and , as Gertrude has never travelled at all , I anticipate a great deal of pleasure for her . '' 
`` Of course , of course , '' answered Mr. Graham , without giving Gertrude a chance to speak for herself ; `` we depend upon Gertrude , -- could n't get along at all without her . '' 
`` It will be delightful for you , '' continued Mrs. Bruce , her eyes still fixed on Gertrude . 
`` I did expect to go with Mr. and Miss Graham , '' answered Gertrude , `` and looked forward to the journey with the greatest eagerness ; but I have just decided that I must remain in Boston this winter . '' 
`` What are you talking about , Gertrude ? '' 
`` But we ca n't give you up , Gertrude ; I wo n't hear of such a thing ; you must go with us , in spite of circumstances . '' 
`` I fear I shall not be able to , '' said Gertrude , smiling pleasantly , but still retaining her firmness of expression ; `` you are very kind , sir , to wish it . '' 
Gertrude and Emily both looked troubled , but neither of them spoke . 
Here I plan my business , and make all my arrangements , on purpose to be able to give up this winter to travelling , -- and that , not so much on my own account as to give pleasure to both of you , -- and , just as everything is settled , and we are almost on the point of starting , Gertrude announces that she has concluded not to go . 
Now , I should like to know her reasons . '' 
Emily undertook to explain Gertrude 's motives , and ended by expressing her own approbation of her course . 
As soon as she had finished , Mr. Graham , who had listened very impatiently , and interrupted her with many a `` pish ! '' 
`` So Gerty prefers the Sullivans to us , and you seem to encourage her in it ! 
I should like to know what they 've ever done for her , compared with what I have done ! '' 
`` They have been friends of hers for years , and , now that they are in great distress , she does not feel as if she could leave them ; and I confess I do not wonder at her decision . '' 
She prefers to make a slave of herself in Mr. W. 's school , and a still greater slave in Mrs. Sullivan 's family , instead of staying with us , where she has always been treated like a lady , and , more than that , like one of my own family ! '' 
said Gertrude , earnestly , `` it is not a matter of preference or choice , except as I feel it to be a duty . '' 
`` I did not think , sir , '' answered Gertrude , humbly , and yet with quiet dignity , `` of counting up the favors I had received , and measuring my conduct accordingly . 
`` Father , '' said Emily , `` I thought the object , in giving Gertrude a good education , was to make her independent of all the world , and not simply dependent upon us . '' 
Poor Gertrude ! 
Mr. Graham , who had been so kind and generous , who had seldom before spoken harshly to her , and had always treated her with great indalgence , was now deeply offended . 
He had called her ungrateful ; he evidently felt that she had abused his kindness , and believed that he and Emily stood in her estimation secondary to other , and , as he considered them , far less warm-hearted friends . 
Leftat three years of age dependent upon the mercy and charity of a world in which she was friendless and alone , Gertrude had , during the period of her residence at Nan Grant 's , found little of that mercy , and still less of that charity . 
But , although her turbulent spirit rebelled at the treatment she received , she was then too young to reason upon the subject , or come to any philosophical conclusions upon the general hardness and cruelty of humanity ; and , had she done so , such impressions could not but have been effaced amid the atmosphere of love and kindness which surrounded her during the succeeding period , when , cherished and protected in the home of her kind fosterfather , she enjoyed a degree of parental tenderness which rarely falls to the lot of an orphan . 
The unfriendly conduct of Mrs. Ellis had , at times , been a source of irritation to her ; but the housekeeper 's power and influence in the family were limited by her own dependence upon the good opinion of those she served , and Gertrude 's patience and forbearance had at last nearly disarmed her enmity . 
From Mr. Graham she had until now experienced only kindness . 
On her first coming to live with them , he had , to be sure , taken very little notice of her , and , so long as she was quiet , wellmannered , and no trouble to anybody , had been quite indifferent concerning her . 
Emily formed no plan with regard to Gertrude 's education to which she did not obtain a ready assent from her father ; and Gertrude , deeply grateful for so much bounty , spared no pains to evidence her sense of obligation and regard , by treating Mr. Graham with the greatest respect and attention . 
He had supported and educated Gertrude , -- he liked her , -- she was the person whom he preferred for a travelling companion for himself and Emily , -- nobody else had any claim upon her to compare with his , -- and he either couldnot or wouldnot see that her duty lay in any other direction . 
Acting , therefore , under the influence of his own prejudiced and narrow sentiments , Mr. Graham gave way to his ill-temper , and distressed Gertrude by the first really harsh and severe language he had ever used towards her . 
During the long hours of a wakeful and restless night , Gertrude had ample time to review and consider her own situation and circumstances . 
At first , her only emotion was one of grief and distress , such as a child might feel on being reproved ; but that gradually subsided , as other and bitter thoughts rose up in her mind . 
`` What right , '' thought she , `` has Mr. Graham to treat me thus , -- to tell me I shallgo with them on this southern journey , and speak as if my other friends were ciphers in his estimation , and ought to be in my own ? 
No , '' thought she , `` it would be tyranny in Mr. Graham to insist upon my remaining with them , and I am glad I have resolved to break away from such thraldom . 
So much said pride ; and Gertrude 's heart , naturally proud , and only kept in check by strict and conscientious self-control , listened a while to such suggestions . 
She had accustomed herself to view the conduct of others in that spirit of charity which she desired should be exercised towards her own , and milder thoughts soon took the place of these excited and angry feelings . 
`` Perhaps , '' said she to herself , as she reviewed in her mind the conversation of the evening , `` it is , after all , pure kindness to me that prompted Mr. Graham 's interference . 
Having thus resolved to brave the tempest that she well knew she must encounter , and committed her cause to Him who judgeth righteously , Gertrude tried to compose herself to sleep ; but found it impossible to obtain any untroubled rest . 
Scarcely had slumber eased her mind of the weight that pressed upon it , before dreams of an equally painful nature seized upon her , and startled her back to consciousness . 
In some of these visions she beheld Mr. Graham , angry and excited as on the previous evening , and threatening her with the severest marks of his displeasure if she dared to thwart his plans and then , again , she seemed to see Willie , the same boyish youth from whom she had parted nearly five years before , beckoning her with a sad countenance to the room where his pale mother lay in a swoon , as Gertrude had a few weeks before discovered her . 
Exhausted by a succession of such harassing images , she at length gave up the attempt to obtain any rest through sleep , and , rising , seated herself at the window , where , watching the now descending moon , and the first approach of dawn , she found , in quiet self-communing , the strength and courage which , she felt , would be requisite to carry her calmly and firmly through the following day ; a day destined to witness her sad separation from Emily , and her farewell to Mr. Graham , which would probably be of a still more distressing character . 
It may seem strange that anything more than ordinary mental courage and decision should be needful to sustain Gertrude under the present emergency . 
But , in truth , it required no small amount of both these qualities for a young girl of eighteen years , long dependent upon the liberality of an elderly man , well known as a stern dictator in his household , to suddenly break the bonds of custom and habit , and mark out a course for herself in opposition to his wishes and intentions ; and nothing but an urgent motive could have led the grateful and peace-loving Gertrude to such a step . 
It can not then be surprising that Gertrude 's heart should have almost failed her , when she stood , half an hour before breakfast-time , with the handle of the dining-room door in her hand , summoning all her energies for another meeting with the formidable opposer of her plans . 
She paused but a moment , however , then opened the door and went in . 
Mr. Graham was where she expected to see him , sitting in his arm-chair , and on the breakfast-table by his side lay the morning paper . 
It had been Gertrude 's habit , for a year or two , to read that paper aloud to the old gentleman at this same hour , and it was for that very purpose she had now come . 
She advanced towards him with her usual `` good-morning . '' 
She seated herself , and leaned forward to take the newspaper ; but he placed his hand upon it and prevented her . 
`` Do you mean to tell me , '' asked Mr. Graham , rising from his chair and speaking in a tone which made Gerty 's heart quake , in spite of her brave resolutions , `` do you mean to tell me that you have any idea of persisting in your folly ? '' 
`` I do n't doubt she 'd give her head to anybody that asked for it ; but I hope I know a little better what is due to myself ; and I tell you plainly , Miss Gertrude Flint , without any more words in the matter , that if you leave my house , as you propose doing , you leave it with my displeasure ; and that , you may find one of these days , it is no light thing to have incurred , -- unnecessarily , too , '' he muttered , -- `` as you are doing . '' 
`` I am very sorry to displease you , Mr. Graham , but -- '' `` No , you 're not sorry ; if you were , you would not walk straight in the face of my wishes , '' said Mr. Graham , who began to observe the expression of Gertrude 's face , which , though grieved and troubled , had in the last few minutes acquired additional firmness , instead of quailing beneath his severe and cutting words ; -- `` but , I have said enough about a matter which is not worthy of so much notice . 
`` Mr. Graham , '' said Gertrude , proudly , `` Mr. Sullivan will not probably return to this country for many years , and I assure you I neither look to him or any one else for support ; I intend to earn a maintenance for myself . '' 
`` It is , sir , '' said Gertrude , not a little strengthened for the dreaded necessity of pronouncing her final resolution by Mr. Graham 's sarcastic speeches . 
Mr. Graham did not seem to take the least notice of the latter part of her remark , and before she had finished speaking so far forgot his usual politeness as to drown her voice in the violent ringing of the table-bell . 
Mrs. Ellis , who had never before heard any intimation that such a tour was contemplated , accepted the invitation with pleasure and alacrity , and proceeded to ask a number of questions concerning the proposed route and length of absence ; while Emily hid her agitated face behind her tea-cup ; and Gertrude , who had lately been reading `` Letters from Cuba , '' and was aware that Mr. Graham knew the strong interest she consequently felt in the place , pondered in her mind whether it were possible that he could be guilty of the small and mean desire to vex and mortify her . 
Breakfast over , Emily hastily sought her room , where she was immediately joined by Gertrude . 
In answering Emily 's earnest inquiries as to the scene which had taken place , Gertrude forebore to repeat Mr. Graham 's most bitter and wounding remarks ; for she saw , from her kind friend 's pained and anxious countenance , how deeply she participated in her own sense of wrong and misapprehension . 
She told her , however , that it was now well understood by Mr. Graham that she was to leave , and , as his sentiments towards her were far from kindly , she thought it best to go at once , especially as she could never be more needed by Mrs. Sullivan than at present . 
Emily saw the reasonableness of the proposal , assented to it , and agreed to accompany her to town that very afternoon ; for , deeply sensitive at any unkindness manifested towards Gertrude , she preferred to have her depart thus abruptly , rather than encounter her father 's contemptuous neglect . 
The remainder of the day , therefore , was spent by Gertrude in packing , and other preparations ; while Emily sat by , counselling and advising the future conduct of her adopted darling , lamenting the necessity of their separation , and exchanging with her reiterated assurances of continued and undiminished affection . 
exclaimed Gertrude . 
In the course of the day Gertrude sought Mrs. Ellis , and astonished that lady by announcing that she had come to have a few farewell words with her . 
After wishing her a great deal of pleasure , Gertrude begged to hear from her by letter during her absence ; to which apparently unheard request Mrs. Ellis only replied by asking if Gertrude thought a thibet dress would be uncomfortable on the journey ; and , when it was repeated with still greater earnestness , she , with equal unsatisfactoriness to the suppliant for epistolary favors , begged to know how many pairs of under-sleeves she should probably require . 
Having responded to her questions , and at last gained her ear and attention , Gertrude obtained from her a promise to write oneletter , which would , she declared , be more than she had done for years . 
Before leaving the house , Gertrude sought Mr. Graham 's study , in hopes that he would take a friendly leave of her ; but , on her telling him that she had come to bid him `` good-by , '' he indistinctly muttered the simple words of that universal formula , so deep in its meaning when coming from the heart ; so chilling when uttered , as on the present occasion , by stern and nearly closed lips ; and , turning his back upon her , took up the tongs to mend his fire . 
So she went away , with a tear in her eye and sadness in her heart , for until now Mr. Graham had been a good friend to her . 
A far different scene awaited her in the upper kitchen , where she went to seek Mrs. Prime and Katy . 
`` Bless yer soul , dear Miss Gertrude ! '' 
`` Thank you , Katy , thank you , '' said Gertrude , much touched by the simple earnestness of these good friends . 
Good-by ; '' and the good-by that nowfell upon Gertrude 's ear was a hearty and a true one ; it followed her through the hall , and as the carryall drove away she heard it mingling with the rattling of the vehicle . 
Passingover Gertrude 's parting with Emily , her cordial reception by Mrs. Sullivan , and her commencement of school duties , we will look in upon her and record the events of a day in November , about two months after she left Mr. Graham 's . 
`` Gertrude , '' said she , `` why will you let me sleep so , mornings , while you are up and at work ? 
Mrs. Sullivan smiled , for , Uncle True having always preferred tea , Gertrude did not at first know how to make coffee , and had been obliged to come to her for instructions . 
`` Now , '' said Gertrude , playfully , as she drew a comfortable chair close to the fire , `` I want you to sit down here and watch the tea-kettle boil , while I run and see if Mr. Cooper is ready to let me tie up his cue . '' 
She went , leaving Mrs. Sullivan to think what a good girl she was ; and presently returning with the old man , who was dressed with perfect neatness , she placed a chair for him , and having waited , as for a child , while he seated himself , and then pinned a napkin about his throat , she proceeded to place the breakfast on the table . 
While Mrs. Sullivan poured out the coffee , Gertrude , with a quiet tact which rendered the action almost unobserved , removed the skin from a baked potato and the shell from a boiled egg , and , placing both on the plate destined for Mr. Cooper , handed him his breakfast in a state of preparation which obviated the difficulty the old man experienced in performing these tasks for himself , and spared Mrs. Sullivan the anxiety she always felt at witnessing his clumsiness and sadly-increasing carelessness on those points of neatness so sacred in her eyes . 
Poor Mrs. Sullivan had no appetite , and it was with difficulty Gertrude persuaded her to eat anything ; a few fried oysters , however , unexpectedly placed before her , proved such a temptation that she was induced to taste and finally to eat several , with a degree of relish she rarely felt , lately , for any article of food . 
As Gertrude gazed at her languid face , she realized , more than ever before , the change which had come over the active , energetic little woman ; and , confident that nothing but positive disease could have effected such a transformation , she resolved that not another day should pass without her seeing a physician . 
Breakfast over , there were dishes to wash , rooms to be put in order , dinner to be decided on and partially prepared ; and all this Gertrude exerted herself and saw accomplished , chiefly through her own labor , before she went to reärrange her dress , previous to her departure for the school , where she had now been some weeks installed as assistant teacher . 
A quarter before nine she looked in at the kitchen door , and said , in a cheering tone , to the old man , who was cowering gloomily over the fire , `` Come , Mr. Cooper , wo n't you go over and superintend the new church a little while , this morning ? 
The old man rose , and taking his great-coat from Gertrude , put it on with her assistance , and accompanied her in a mechanical sort of way , that seemed to imply a great degree-of indifference whether he went or stayed . 
As they walked in silence down the street , Gertrude could not but revolve in her mind the singular coincidence which had thus made her the almost daily companion of another infirm old man ; nor could she fail to draw a comparison between the genial , warm-hearted Uncle True , and the gloomy , discontented Paul Cooper , who , never , as we have said , possessing a genial temperament , now retained , in his state of mental imbecility , his old characteristics in an exaggerated form . 
Unfavorable as the comparison necessarily was to the latter , it did not diminish the kindness and thoughtfulness of Gertrude towards her present charge , who was in her eyes an object of sincere compassion . 
They soon reached the new church of which Gertrude had spoken , -- a handsome edifice , built on the site of the old building in which Mr. Cooper had long officiated as sexton . 
A man with a hod-full of mortar preceded Gertrude and her companion up the steps which led to the main entrance , but stopped inside the porch , on hearing himself addressed by name , and , laying down his burden , turned to respond to the well-known voice . 
So saying , he was walking away with the old sexton ; but Gertrude followed , and detained him a moment , to ask if he would do her the favor to see Mr. Cooper safe home when he passed Mrs. Sullivan 's house on his way to dinner . 
Having obtained this promise , Gertrude hastened towards the school , rejoicing in the certainty that Mr. Cooper would be safe and well amused during the morning , and that Mrs. Sullivan , freed from all responsibility concerning him , would be left to the rest and quiet she so much needed . 
This cordial coadjutor in Gertrude 's plan of diverting and occupying the old man 's mind was a respectable mason , who had often been in Mr. Graham 's employ , and whose good-will and gratitude Gertrude had won by the kindness and attention she had shown his family during the previous winter , when they were sick and afflicted . 
In her daily walk past the church , she had frequently seen Mr. Miller at his work , and it occurred to her that , if she could awaken in Mr. Cooper 's mind an interest in the new structure , he might find amusement in coming there and watching the workmen . 
She had some difficulty in persuading him to visit a building to the erection of which he had been vehemently opposed , not only because it was inimical to his interests , but on account of the strong attachment he had for the old place of worship . 
Sometimes Gertrude called for him on her return from school ; and sometimes , as on the present occasion , Mr. Miller undertook to accompany him home . 
Since Gertrude had been at Mrs. Sullivan 's there was a very perceptible alteration in Mr. Cooper . 
He was much more manageable , looked better contented , and manifested far less irritability than he had previously done ; and this favorable change , together with the cheering influence of Gertrude 's society , had for a time produced a proportionately beneficial effect upon Mrs. Sullivan ; but , within the last few days , her increased debility , and one or two sudden attacks of faintness , had awakened all , and more than all , of Gertrude 's former fears . 
She had left home with the determination , as soon as she should be released from her school duties , to seek Dr. Jeremy and request his attendance ; and it was in order to secure leisure for that purpose that she had solicited Mr. Miller 's superintending care for Mr. Cooper . 
Of Gertrude 's school-duties we shall say nothing , save that she was found by Mr. W. fully competent to the performance of them , and that she met with those trials and discouragements only to which all teachers are more or less subjected , from the idleness , obstinacy , or stupidity of their pupils . 
On this day , however , she was , from various causes , detained to a later hour than usual , and the clock struck two at the very moment that she was ringing Dr. Jeremy 's door-bell . 
The girl who opened the door knew Gertrude by sight , having often seen her at her master 's house ; and , telling her that , though the doctor was just going to dinner , she thought he would see her , asked her into the office , where he stood , with his back to the fire , eating an apple , as it was his invariable custom to do before dinner . 
He laid it down , however , and advanced to meet Gertrude , holding out both his hands . 
`` Gertrude Flint , I declare ! '' 
Gertrude explained that she was living with friends , one of whom was very old , the other an invalid ; and that so much of her time was occupied in school that she had no opportunity for visiting . 
added he , in a lower tone , addressing himself to Gertrude , and smiling good-naturedly , `` she ca n't hurry , can she , Gerty ? 
Gertrude now protested against staying to dinner , declaring she must hasten home , and announcing Mrs. Sullivan 's illness and the object of her visit . 
Gertrude hesitated the sky had clouded over , and a few flakes of snow were falling ; she should have an uncomfortable walk ; and , moreover , it would be better for her to accompany the doctor , as the street in which she lived was principally composed of new houses , not yet numbered , and he might , if he were alone , have some difficulty in finding the right tenement . 
At this stage of her reflections , Mrs. Jeremy entered . 
She kissed Gertrude in the kindest manner , and then , looking round and seeing that there was no one else present , exclaimed , glancing reproachfully at the doctor , `` Why , Dr. Jerry ! 
`` Gertrude isa stranger , and I 've got a scolding in store for her on that very account ; but , you know , Dr. Jerry , I should n't have put on my lilac-and-pink for Gertrude to see ; she likes me just as well in my old yellow , if she did tell me , when I bought it , the saucy girl , that I 'd selected the ugliest cap in Boston . 
Gertrude looked at him inquiringly , and Mrs. Jeremy said , `` There , Gertrude ! 
I do n't suppose , '' continued he , turning towards Gertrude , `` you 've lived five years at Mr. Graham 's , without finding out what a cantankerous , opinionative , obstinate old hulk he is ? '' 
`` I do n't care for winking or head-shaking , wife ; I speak my mind , and that 's the conclusion I 've come to with regard to Mr. Graham ; and Gertrude , here , has done the same , I have n't a particle of doubt , only she 's a good girl , and wo n't say so . '' 
`` I daresay , '' said the doctor ; `` Gertrude and I know what gentlemanly manners he has when one does not walk in the very teeth of his opinions , -- eh , Gertrude ? 
shouted the good doctor , leaning forward , and giving Gertrude a light tap on the shoulder , -- `` was n't I glad when I found he 'd met at last with a reasonable opposition ? 
Gertrude looked her astonishment at his evident knowledge of the misunderstanding between herself and Mr. Graham ; and in answer to that look he continued , `` You wonder where I picked up my information , and I 'll tell you . 
`` Dr. Jeremy , '' interposed Gertrude , `` I hope you do n't think -- '' `` No , my dear , I do n'tthink you a professed pugilist ; but I consider you a girl of sense -- one who knows what 's right -- and will do what 's right , in spite of Mr. Graham , or anybody else ; and when you hear my story you will know the grounds on which I formed my opinion with regard to the course things had taken , and the reasons I have for understanding the state of the case rather better than Graham meant I should . 
` But Gertrude Flint is not going with you , ' said I. -- ` Gertrude ! ' 
said he ; ` certainly she is . ' 
` Have you invited her ? ' 
-- ` Invited her ! 
-- No , ' was his answer ; ` but , of course , I know she will go , and be glad enough of the opportunity ; it is n't every girl in her situation that is so fortunate . ' 
I ca n't repeat it ; but , goodness , Gertrude ! 
That woman is a friend of yours , Gertrude , and pretty sharp where you are concerned . 
She told me the truth , I rather think ; though not , perhaps , all the particulars . 
Will you take a little package from me to Gertrude ? ' 
-- ` I know nothing about Gertrude ! ' 
rejoined I , affecting the greatest surprise , ` has Gertrude left you ? ' 
-- ` She has , ' answered he . 
exclaimed he , ` I do n't wish to hear that young person mentioned ; she has behaved as ungratefully as she has unwisely . ' 
-- ` Why , about the gratitude , Graham , ' said I , ` I believe you said it would only be an additional favor on your part if you took her with you , and I ca n't say but what I think it is wisdom in her to make herself independent at home . 
I replied ; ` now , I was thinking Gertrude 's society would be quite a loss . ' 
`` I was taking up the cudgels for Gertrude , wife . '' 
`` And I do n't believe Gertrude wants you to take up the cudgels for her . 
I have no manner of doubt that she has the kindest of feelings towards Mr. Graham , this blessed minute . '' 
`` I have , indeed , Mrs. Jeremy , '' said Gertrude ; `` he has been a most generous and indulgent friend to me . '' 
Gertrude answered all these questions ; and the doctor , who had heard Mrs. Sullivan spoken of as a friend of True 's and Gerty 's , at the time when he attended the former , made many inquiries concerning the state of her health . 
It was by this time beginning to snow fast , and Gertrude 's anxiety to return home in good season being very manifest to her kind host and hostess , they urged no further delay , and , after she had given many a promise to repeat her visit on the earliest opportunity , she drove away with the doctor . 
`` I HAVE been thinking , '' said Gertrude , as she drew near home , `` how we shall manage , doctor , so as not to alarm Mrs. Sullivan . '' 
Stagemanager , Gertrude Flint -- unknown stranger , Dr. Jeremy . 
`` I leave that to a wiser head than mine , doctor , and trust entirely to your own discretion to obtain some knowledge of her symptoms , and only gradually disclose to her that you are a physician . '' 
As they opened the door , Mrs. Sullivan rose from her chair with a troubled countenance , and hardly waited for the introduction to Gertrude 's friend before she turned to her and asked , with some anxiety , if Mr. Cooper were not with them . 
`` No , indeed , '' replied Gertrude . 
Upon Mrs. Sullivan 's saying that she had not seen him since morning , Gertrude informed her , with a composure she was far from feeling , that Mr. Miller had undertaken the care of him , and could , undoubtedly , account for his absence . 
She would seek him at once . 
And Mrs. Sullivan went to the entry-closet for her shawl , giving Gertrude an opportunity to beg of Dr. Jeremy that he would await her return ; for she knew that any unusual agitation of mind would often occasion an attack of faintness in Mrs. Sullivan , and was afraid to have her left alone , to dwell with anxiety and alarm upon Mr. Cooper 's prolonged absence . 
Gertrude hastened along the wet side-walks , exposed to the blinding storm -LRB- for the wind would not permit her to carry an umbrella -RRB- , and , after passing through several streets , gained the church . 
She went into the building , now nearly deserted by the workmen , saw , at once , that Mr. Cooper was not there , and was beginning to fear that she should gain no information concerning him , when she met Mr. Miller coming from the gallery . 
He looked surprised at seeing her , and asked if Mr. Cooper had not returned home . 
She answered in the negative , and he then informed her that his utmost efforts were insufficient to persuade the old man to go home at dinner-time , and that he had therefore taken him to his own house ; he had supposed , however , that long before this hour he would have been induced to allow one of the children to accompany him to Mrs. Sullivan 's . 
As it now seemed probable that he was still at Mr. Miller 's , Gertrude took the direction -LRB- for the family had moved within a year , and she did not know where to seek them -RRB- , and , declining the company of the friendly mason , whom she was unwilling to take from his work , proceeded thither at once . 
After another uncomfortable walk , and some difficulty in finding the right street and house , she reached her destination . 
She knocked at the outside door ; but there was no response , and , after waiting a moment , she opened it and went in . 
Through another door , at the right , there was the sound of children 's voices , and so much noise that she believed it impossible to make herself heard , and , therefore , without further ceremony , entered the room . 
A band of startled children dispersed at the sight of a stranger , and ensconced themselves in corners ; and Mrs. Miller , in dismay at the untidy appearance of her kitchen , hastily pushed back a clothes-horse against the wall , thereby disclosing to view the very person Gertrude had come to seek , who , in his usual desponding attitude , sat cowering over the fire . 
But , before she could advance to speak to him , her whole attention was arrested by another and most unexpected sight . 
Hardly , however , had Gertrude presented herself in the doorway , before the figure suddenly raised itself , gazed fixedly at her , lifted a hand as if to ward off her approach , and uttered a piercing shrick . 
The voice and countenance were not to be mistaken , and Gertrude , pale and trembling , felt something like a revival of her old dread , as she beheld the well-known features of Nan Grant . 
cried Nan , as Gertrude , after a moment 's hesitation , advanced into the room . 
Again Gertrude paused , for the wildness of Nan 's eyes and the excitement of her countenance were such that she feared to excite her further . 
Mrs. Miller now drew Gertrude aside , into the shadow of the clothes-horse , and conversed with her in an under tone , while Nan , leaning on her elbow , and peering after them into the dim corner to which they had retreated , maintained a watchful , listening attitude . 
Gertrude was informed that Mrs. Miller was a niece of Beu Grant 's , but had seen nothing of him or his wife for years , until , a few days previous , Nan had come there in a state of the greatest destitution , and threatened with the fever under which she was now laboring . 
asked Gertrude . 
`` She ought to be kept quiet , '' said Gertrude ; `` and , if you will have a fire in Jane 's room at my expense , and do what you can to make her comfortable , I 'll try and send a physician here to see her . '' 
Mrs. Miller was beginning to express the warmest gratitude , but Gertrude interrupted her with saying , `` Do n't thank me , Mrs. Miller ; Nancy is not a stranger to me ; I have known her before , and , perhaps , feel more interest in her than you do yourself . '' 
Mrs. Miller looked surprised ; but Gertrude , whose time was limited , could not stop to enter into a further explanation . 
`` She is well , '' answered Gertrude , astonished , however , at the question ; for she had supposed herself recognized . 
Gertrude took it and offered it to Nan , who drank eagerly of it , staring at her , however , in the mean time , over the edge of the cup . 
Finding the current of her thoughts thus apparently diverted , Gertrude , now feeling in haste to return and relieve Dr. Jeremy , who had so kindly agreed to stay with Mrs. Sullivan , moved a little from the bed-side , saying , as she did so , `` Good-by , I will come and see you again . '' 
`` I will come alone , '' replied Gertrude . 
Nan now laid down , and did not speak again while Gertrude remained in the house , though she watched her steadily until she was outside the door . 
Mr. Cooper made no objection to accompanying his young guide , and , though the severity of the storm was such that they did not escape a thorough wetting , they reached home in safety , in little more than an hour from the time she started on her expedition . 
Dr. Jeremy , seated at the side of the grate , with his feet upon the fender , had the contented appearance of one who is quite at home ; he seemed , indeed , unconscious that he was waiting for Gertrude 's return , or anything else but his own pleasure . 
By the time Gertrude returned , he had made himself well acquainted with the case , and was prepared , on Mrs. Sullivan 's leaving the room to provide dry clothes for her father , to report to Gertrude his opinion . 
`` Gertrude , '' said he , as soon as the door was shut , `` that 's a very sick woman . '' 
said Gertrude , much alarmed , and sinking into the nearest chair . 
`` I wish to mercy I had seen her six months ago ! '' 
Do you date her illness so far back as that ? '' 
She has borne up under the gradual progress of a disease which is now , I fear , beyond the aid of medical treatment . '' 
`` Dr. Jeremy , '' said Gertrude , in tones of great distress , `` you do not mean to tell me that auntie is going to die , and leave me and her poor old father , and without ever seeing Willie again , too ! 
`` Do not be alarmed , Gertrude , '' said the doctor , kindly . 
`` I did not mean to frighten you ; -- she may live some time , yet . 
I can judge better of her case in a day or two . 
`` I intend to , '' said Gertrude . 
Mrs. Sullivan now returned , and Gertrude , giving an account of her unexpected rencounter with Nan Grant , begged Dr. Jeremy , who knew the particulars of her own early life , and had frequently heard of Nan , to go the next day and see her . 
But , Gertrude , do you go , child , and change your wet shoes and stockings . 
`` So different , '' said she , `` from common doctors -LRB- a portion of humanity for which she seemed to have an unaccountable a version -RRB- ; so sociable and friendly ! 
Why , I felt , Gertrude , as if I could talk to him about my sickness as freely as I could to you . '' 
Gertrude readily joined in the praises bestowed upon her much-valued friend , and it was tea-time before Mrs. Sullivan was weary of the subject . 
After the evening meal was over , and Mr. Cooper , much wearied with the fatigues of the day , had been persuaded to retire to rest , while Mrs. Sullivan , comfortably reclining on the sofa , was enjoying what she always termed her happiest hour , Gertrude broached the subject recommended by Dr. Jeremy . 
Contrary to her expectations , Mrs. Sullivan no longer objected to the proposal of introducing a domestic into the family . 
She was convinced of her own incompetency to perform any active labor , and was equally opposed to the exertion on Gertrude 's part which had , during the last week , been requisite . 
Gertrude suggested Jane Miller as a girl remarkably well suited to their wants , and it was agreed that she should be applied for on the following morning . 
One more glance at Gertrude , and we shall have followed her to the conclusion of the day . 
She is alone . 
Gertrude has just listened at his door , and heard his loud breathing . 
The little Calcutta birds , ten in number , that occupy a large cage in the window , are nestled , side by side , on their slender perch , in a close , unbroken row , and Gertrude has thrown a warm covering over them , that they may not suffer from the cold night-air . 
She has locked the doors , made all things safe , fast and comfortable , and now sits down to read , to meditate , and pray . 
Her trials and cares are multiplying . 
A great grief stares her in the face , and a great responsibility ; but she shrinks not from either . 
on the contrary , she thanks God that she is here ; that she had the resolution to forsake pleasure and ease , and , in spite of her own weakness and man 's wrath , to place herself in the front of life 's battle , and bravely wait its issues . 
She thanks God that she knows where to look for help ; that the bitter sorrows of her childhood and early youth left her not without a witness of His love who can turn darkness into light , and that no weight can now overshadow her whose gloom is not illumined by rays from the throne of God . 
But , though her heart is brave and her faith firm , she has a woman 's tender nature ; and , as she sits alone , she weeps -- weeps for herself , and for him who , far away in a foreign land , is counting the days , the months and years , which shall restore him to a mother he is destined never to see again . 
With the recollection , however , that she is to stand in the place of a child to that parent , and that hers is the hand that must soothe the pillow of the invalid , and minister to all her wants , comes the stern necessity of self-control , -- a necessity to which Gertrude has long since learned to submit , -- and , rallying all her calmness and fortitude , she wipes away the blinding tears , commends herself to Him who is strength to the weak and comfort to the sorrowing , and , soothed by the communion of her spirit with the Father of spirits , she seeks her couch , and , worn out by the varied mental and bodily fatigues of her day 's experience , follows the rest of the household to the land of dreams . 
Itwas a fortunate thing for Gertrude that Thanksgiving week was approaching , as that was a vacation time at Mr. W. 's school , and she would thus be more at leisure to attend to her multiplied cares . 
She considered herself favored , too , in obtaining the services of Jane , who willingly consented to come and help Miss Gertrude . 
She did not , she said , exactly like the idea of living out , but could n't refuse a young lady who had been so good to them in times past . 
Gertrude had feared that , with nan Grant sick in the house , Mrs. Miller would not be able to give up her eldest daughter ; but Mary , a second girl , having returned home unexpectedly , one of them could be very conveniently spared . 
Under Gertrude 's tuition , Jane , who was neat and capable , was able , after a few days , to relieve Mrs. Sullivan of nearly all her household duties , and so far provide for many of her personal wants as to leave Gertrude at liberty to pay frequent visits to the sick room of Nan , whose fever , having reached its height , rendered her claim for aid at present the most imperative . 
We need hardly say that , in Gertrude 's still vivid recollection of her former sufferings under the rule of Nan , there remained nothing of bitterness or a spirit of revenge . 
Nan talked much of little Gerty , -- sometimes in a way that led Gertrude to believe herself recognized , but more frequently as if the child were supposed to be absent ; and it was not until a long time after that Gertrude was led to adopt the correct supposition , which was , that she had been mistaken for her mother , whom she much resembled , and whom , though tended in her last sickness by Nan herself , the fevered , diseased , and conscience-stricken sufferer believed had come back to claim her child at her hands . 
It was only the continued assurances of good-will on Gertrude 's part , and her unwearied efforts to soothe and comfort her , that finally led Nan to the belief that the injured mother had found her child in health and safety , and was ignorant of the wrongs and unkindness she had endured . 
One night -- it was the last of Nan 's life -- Gertrude , who had scarcely left her during the previous day , and was still maintaining her watch , heard her own name mingled with those of others in a few rapid sentences . 
She approached the bed and listened intently , for she was always in hopes , during these partly incoherent ravings , to gain some information concerning her own early life . 
Her name was not repeated , however , and for some time the muttering of Nan 's voice was indistinet . 
The moment the words had left her lips , she started , turned , saw Gertrude standing by the bed-side , and , with a frightened look , shrieked , rather than asked , `` Did you hear ? 
-- You did , '' continued she , `` and you 'll tell ! 
She was here preparing to spring from the bed , but , overcome with exhaustion , sunk back on the pillow . 
Summoning both Mr. and Mrs. Miller , who , half expecting to be called up during the night , had lain down in the next room , the agitated Gertrude , believing that her own presence was too exciting , left the now dying woman to their care , and sought in another part of the house to calm her disturbed mind and disordered nerves . 
Learning , about an hour afterwards , from Mrs. Miller , that Nan had become comparatively calm , but was utterly prostrated in strength , and seemed near her end , Gertrude thought it best not to enter the room again ; and , sitting down by the kitchenstove , pondered in her mind the strange scene she had witnessed . 
In less than three weeks from the time of Nan Grant 's death , Paul Cooper was smitten by the destroyer 's hand , and , after a brief illness , he , too , was laid to his last rest ; and though the deepest feelings of Gertrude 's heart were not in either case fully awakened , it was no slight call upon the mental and physical endurance of a girl of eighteen to bear up under the self-imposed duties occasioned by each event , and that , too , at a time when her mind was racked by the apprehension of a new and far more intense grief . 
`` It a n't so very pleasant , after all , Gertrude , '' wrote Mrs. Ellis , `` and I only wish we were safe home again ; and not on my own account , either , so much as Emily 's . 
I liked to have died with sea-sickness , Gertrude , coming out ; and I dread going home so , that I do n't know what to do . '' 
Gertrude wrote frequently to Emily ; but , as Miss Graham was dependent upon Mrs. Ellis ' eye-sight , and the letters must , therefore , be subject to her scrutiny , she could not express her innermost thoughts and feelings as she was wont to do in conversation with her sympathizing and indulgent friend . 
One Sabbath afternoon , a few weeks after Mr. Cooper 's death , found Gertrude with an open letter in her hand , the numerous postmarks upon the outside of which proclaimed from whence it came . 
The bright hopes expressed by her son , and the gay tone in which he wrote , all unconscious , as he yet was , of the cloud of sorrow that was gathering for him , formed so striking a contrast to her own reflections , that she lay with her eyes closed , and oppressed with an unwonted degree of sadness ; while Gertrude , as she glanced at the passage in which Willie dilated upon the `` joy of once more clasping in his arms the dear little mother whom he so longed to see again , '' and then turned her gaze upon the wasted form and faded cheek of that mother , felt an indescribable chill at her heart . 
Dr. Jeremy 's first fears were all confirmed , and , her disease still further aggravated by the anxiety and agitation which attended her father 's sickness and death , Mrs. Sullivan was rapidly passing away . 
Whether she were herself aware that this was the case , Gertrude had not yet been able to determine . 
She had never spoken upon the subject , or intimated in any manner a conviction of her approaching end ; and Gertrude , as she surveyed her placid countenance , was almost inclined to believe that she was yet deceiving herself with the expectation of recovery . 
All doubt on this point was soon removed ; for , after remaining a short time engaged in deep thought , or perhaps in prayer , Mrs. Sullivan opened her eyes , fixed them upon her young attendant , and said , in a calm , distinct voice , `` Gertrude , I shall never see Willie again ! '' 
Gertrude made no reply . 
`` I wish to write and tell him so myself , '' she continued ; `` or , rather , if you will write for me , as you have done so many times already , I should like to tell you what to say ; and I feel that no time is to be lost , for I am failing fast , and may not long have strength enough left to do it . 
asked Gertrude , as she went to her desk , and began to arrange her writing-materials . 
inquired she , gazing earnestly in the face of Gertrude , who had returned to the couch , and , seated upon the edge of it , was bending over the invalid , and smoothing the hair from her forehead . 
`` Some weeks , '' replied Gertrude , as she spoke imprinting a kiss upon the pale brow of the sufferer . 
said Gertrude , her voice trembling with emotion . 
`` Whose , then , is bright , '' responded Gertrude , `` if yours be dim ? 
exclaimed Gertrude , `` we are all human ! 
Read to me , my dear , some holy words of comfort ; you always seem to open the good book at the passage I most need : It is sinful , indeed , in me , Gertrude , to indulge the least repining , blessed as I am in the love and care of one who is dear to me as a daughter ! '' 
Gertrude took her Bible , and , opening it at the Gospel of St. Mark , her eye fell at once upon the account of our Saviour 's agony in the garden of Gethsemane . 
She rightly believed that nothing could be more appropriate to Mrs. Sullivan 's state of mind than the touching description of the struggle of our Lord 's humanity ; nothing more likely to soothe her spirit , and reconcile her to the occasional rebellion of her own mortal nature , than the evident contest of the human with the divine so thrillingly narrated by the disciple ; and that nothing could be more inspiring than the example of that holy Son of God , who ever to His thricerepeated prayer that , if possible , the cup might pass from him , added the pious ejaculation , `` Thy will , not mine , be done . '' 
Not wishing to disturb her meditations , Gertrude made no reference to the proposed letter to Willie , but sat in perfect silence , and about half an hour afterward Mrs. Sullivan fell asleep . 
It was a gentle , quiet slumber , and Gertrude sat and watched with pleasure the peaceful , happy expression of her features . 
Darkness had come on before she awoke , and so shrouded the room that Gertrude , who still sat there , was invisible in the gloom . 
She started , on hearing her name , and , hastily lighting a candle , approached the couch . 
`` O , Gertrude ! '' 
`` And now , Gertrude , the bitterness of the cup I am called upon to drink is passed away . 
After Gertrude had folded the letter , which she supposed completed , and left the house to attend to those duties in school which she still continued regularly to perform , Mrs. Sullivan reöpened the nearly-covered sheet , and , with her own feeble and trembling hand , recounted the disinterested , patient , loving devotion of Gertrude . 
`` So long , '' said she , `` my son , as you cherish in your heart the memory of your grandfather and mother , cease not to bestow all the gratitude of which that heart is capable upon one whose praises my hand is too feeble to portray . '' 
So slow and gradual was the decline of Mrs. Sullivan , that her death at last came as an unexpected blow to Gertrude , who , though she saw the ravages of disease , could not realize that a termination must come to their work . 
In the dead hours of the night , with no one to sustain and encourage her but the frightened and trembling Jane , did she watch the departing spirit of her much-loved friend . 
`` Are you afraid to see me die , Gertrude ? '' 
On Gertrude 's answering that she was not , -- `` Then turn me a little towards you , '' said she , `` that your face , my darling , may be the last to me of earth . '' 
It was done , and , with her hand locked fast in Gertrude 's , and a look that spoke of the deepest affection , she expired . 
Notuntil her work of love was thus ended did Gertrude become conscious that the long continuance of her labors by night and day had worn upon her frame and utterly exhausted her strength . 
For a week after Mrs. Sullivan was laid in her grave , Dr. Jeremy was seriously apprehensive of a severe illness for Gertrude . 
But , after struggling with her dangerous symptoms for several days , she rallied , and , though still pale and worn by care and anxiety , was able to resume her classes at school , and make arrangements for providing herself with another home . 
Several homes had been already offered to her , several urgent invitations given , with a warmth and cordiality which made it difficult to decline their acceptance ; but Gertrude , though deeply touched by the kindness thus manifested towards her in her loneliness and desolation , preferred to abide by her previously-formed resolution to seek for herself a permanent boarding-place , and , when the grounds on which she based her decision were understood by her friends , they approved her course , ceased to importune her , and manifested a sincere wish to be of service , by lending their aid to the furtherance of her plans . 
Mrs. Jeremy was at first disposed to feel hurt and wounded by Gertrude 's refusal to come to them without delay , and consider herself established for any length of time that she chose to remain ; and the doctor himself was so peremptory with his , `` Come , Gertrude , come right home with us -- do n't say a word ! '' 
that she was afraid lest , in her weak state of health , she should be actually carried off , without a chanceto remonstrate . 
But , after he had taken upon himself to give Jane orders about packing her clothes and sending them after her , and then locking up the house and going home herself , he gave Gertrude an opportunity to expostulate , and present her reasons for wishing to decline the generous proposal . 
All her reasoning upon general principles , however , proved insufficient to convince the warm-hearted couple . 
She would be perfectly independent with them , and her company would be such a pleasure that she need feel no hesitation in accepting their offer , and might be sure she would herself be conferring a favor , instead of being the party obliged . '' 
At last she was compelled to make use of an argument which had greatly influenced her own mind , and would , she felt sure , carry no little weight with it in the doctor 's estimation . 
`` Dr. Jeremy , '' said she , `` I hope you will not condemn in me a motive which has , I confess , strengthened my firmness in this matter . 
replied Gertrude , `` I did not say that ; but I seemed to him a mere child , and he did not realize that , in giving me an education , he had , as it were , paid my expenses in advance . 
Ten to one he will never think of it again , and it seems to me it is only a kind of pride in Gertrude to care anything about it . '' 
`` If it ispride , it 's an honorable pride , that I like ; and I am not sure but , if I were in Gertrude 's place , I should feel just as she does ; so I sha n't urge her to do any other ways than she proposes . 
She can have a boarding-place , and yet spend a good share of her time with us , what with running in and out , coming to spend days , and so on ; and she does n't need to be told that , in case of any sickness or trouble , our doors are always open to her . '' 
Gertrude , gladly consenting to a short visit , compromised the matter by accompanying them without delay ; and it was chiefly owing to the doctor 's persevering skill and care bestowed upon his young guest , and the kind and motherly nursing of Mrs. Jeremy , that she escaped the illness which had so severely threatened her . 
Mr. and Mrs. W. , who had felt great sympathy for Gertrude , in consequence of the acquaintance they had had with the trying nature of her winter 's experience , pressed her to come to their house , and remain until the return of Mr. Graham and Emily ; but , on being assured by her that she was quite unaware of the period of their absence , and should not probably reside with them for the future , they were satisfied that she acted with in wisdom and judgment in at once providing herself with an independent situation . 
Mr. and Mrs. Arnold , who had been constant in their attentions both to Mrs. Sullivan and Gertrude , and were the only persons , except the physician , who had been admitted to the sick room of the invalid , felt that they had a peculiar claim to the guardianship and care of the doubly-orphaned girl , and were not slow to urge upon her to become a member of their household , and accept of their protection , limiting their invitation , as the W. 's had done , to the time when Emily should be back from the south . 
Mr. Arnold 's family , however , being large , and his house and salary small in proportion , true benevolence alone prompted this proposal ; and , on Gertrude 's acquainting his economical and prudent wife with the ample means she enjoyed from her own exertions , and the decision she had formed of procuring an independent home , she received the warm approbation of both , and found in the latter an excellent adviser and assistant . 
Gertrude did not know this lady personally , but had heard her warmly praised ; and she indulged the hope that , through her friend , the clergyman 's wife , she might obtain with her an agreeable and not too expensive residence . 
In this she was not disappointed . 
Mrs. Warren had fortunately vacant , at this time , a large and cheerful front chamber ; and , Mrs. Arnold having recommended Gertrude in the warmest manner , suitable terms were agreed upon , and the room immediately placed at her disposal . 
Mrs. Sullivan had bequeathed to her all her furniture , a part of which had lately been purchased , and was , in accordance with Willie 's injunctions , most excellent , both in material and workmanship ; and Mrs. Arnold and her two eldest daughters insisted that , in consideration of her recent fatigue and bereavement , she should consent to attend only to her school duties , and leave to them the task of furnishing her room with such articles as she preferred to have placed there , and superintending the packing away of all other movables ; for Gertrude was unwilling that anything should be sold . 
It was a great relief to be thus spared the cruel trial of seeing the house her lost friend had taken so much pleasure and pride in stripped and left desolate ; and though , on first entering her apartment at Mrs. Warren 's , a deep sadness crept into her heart at the sight of the familiar furniture , she could not but think , as she observed the neatness , care and taste , with which everything had been arranged for her reception , that it would be a sin to repine and call one 's self wretched and alone in a world which contained hearts so quick to feel , and hands so ready to labor , as those that had interested themselves for her . 
On entering the dining-room the first evening after she took up her residence at Mrs. Warren 's , she expected to meet only strangers at the tea-table , but was agreeably disappointed at the sight of Fanny Bruce , who , left in Boston while her mother and brother were spending the winter in travelling , had now been several weeks an inmate of Mrs. Warren 's house . 
Fanny was a school-girl , twelve or thirteen years of age ; and having , for some summers past , been a near neighbor to Gertrude , had been in the habit of seeing her frequently at Mr. Graham 's , had sometimes begged flowers from her , borrowed books , and obtained assistance in her fancy-work . 
She admired Gertrude exceedingly ; had hailed with great delight the prospect of knowing her better , as she hoped to do at Mrs. Warren 's ; and when she met the gaze of her large , dark eyes , and saw a smile of pleasure overspread her countenance at the sight of a familiar face , she felt emboldeued to come forward , shake hands , and beg that Miss Flint would sit next her at the table . 
Gertrude had not been long at Mrs. Warren 's before she observed that Fanny occupied an isolated position in the family . 
Her apparent loneliness could not fail to excite the compassion of one who was herself suffering from recent sorrow and bereavement ; and , although the quiet and privacy of her own room were , at this time , grateful to Gertrude 's feelings , pity for poor Fanny induced her to invite her frequently to come and sit with her , and she often so far forgot her own griefs as to exert herself in providing entertainment for her young visitor , who , on her part , considered it privilege enough to share Gertrude 's retirement , read her books , and feel confident of her friendship . 
During the month of March , which was unusually stormy , Fanny spent almost every evening with Gertrude ; and she , who at first felt that she was making a sacrifice of her own comfort and ease by giving another such constant access to her apartment , came , at last , to realize the force of Uncle True 's prophecy , that , in her efforts for the happiness of others , she would at last find her own ; for Fanny 's lively and often amusing conversation drew Gertrude from the contemplation of her trials , and the interest and affection she awakened saved her from the painful consciousness of her solitary situation . 
Gertrude 's heart ached with a vain longing to once more pour out her griefs on the bosom of that dear friend , and find in her consolation , encouragement , and support . 
She longed to tell her how many times during the winter she had sighed for the gentle touch of the soft hand which was wont to rest so lovingly on her head , the sound of that sweet voice whose very tones were comforting . 
For some time Gertrude wrote regularly , but of late she had not known where to direct her letters ; and since Mrs. Sullivan 's death there had been no communication between her and the travellers . 
She was sitting at her window , one evening , thinking of that group of friends whom she had loved with a daughter 's and a sister 's love , and who were now separated from her by distance , or that greater barrier , death , when she was summoned below stairs to see Mr. Arnold and his daughter Anne . 
After the usual civilities and inquiries , Miss Arnold turned to Gertrude and said , `` Of course you have heard the news , Gertrude ? '' 
`` No , '' replied Gertrude , `` I have heard nothing special . '' 
Gertrude started up in surprise . 
`` But , Gertrude , '' asked Miss Arnold , `` how does it happen you had not heard of it ? 
`` I have not seen a newspaper for a day or two , '' replied Gertrude . 
Gertrude made no reply , and Miss Arnold continued , laughingly , `` I suppose his bride engrosses all his attention . '' 
asked Gertrude . 
Gertrude looked distressed , and Mr. Arnold glanced reprovingly at his daughter . 
`` Anne , '' said she , `` are you sure you speak advisedly ? '' 
asked Gertrude , `` and whether Mr. Graham is soon to return ? '' 
Gertrude mentioned the date of her letter from Mrs. Ellis , the account she had given of a gay party from the north , and suggested the probability that the present Mrs. Graham was the widow she had described . 
But Gertrude found it impossible to give her thoughts to any other subject ; the matter was one of such vital importance to Emily , that her mind constantly recurred to it , and she found it difficult to keep pace with Anne Arnold 's rapidly-flowing words and ideas . 
The former held in his hand a sealed letter , directed to Gertrude , in the hand-writing of Mr. Graham ; and , as he handed it to her , he rubbed his hands , and , looking at Anne Arnold , exclaimed , `` Now , Miss Anne , we shall hear all about these famous nuptials ! '' 
Finding her visitors thus eager to learn the contents of her letter , Gertrude dispensed with ceremony , broke the seal , and hastily perused its contents . 
Surprised as Gertrude was at any communication from one who had parted from her in anger , her strongest desire was to hear particularly from Emily , and she therefore gave the preference to the housekeeper 's document , that being most likely to contain the desired information . 
It ran as follows : `` Dear Gertrude : As there were plenty of Boston folks at the wedding , I daresay you have heard before this of Mr. Graham 's marriage . 
But I suppose you 've been wondering what had become of us , Gertrude , and will be surprised to find we 've got so far as New York , on our way home , -- myway home , I should say , for I 'm the only one that talks of coming at present . 
The postscript contained the following : `` I need not tell my darling Gertrude how much I have missed her , and longed to have her with me again ; how I have thought of her by night and day , and prayed God to strengthen and fit her for her many trials and labors . 
Mrs. Ellis is very tired of writing , and I must close with assuring my dearest Gertrude of the devoted affection of It was with great curiosity that Gertrude unfolded Mr. Graham 's epistle ; she thought it would be awkward for him to address her , and wondered much whether he would maintain his severe and authoritative tone , or condescend to explain and apologize . 
Had she known him better , she would have been assured that nothing would ever induce him to do the latter , for he was one of those persons who never believe themselves in the wrong . 
The letter ran thus : `` Miss Gertrude Flint : I am married , and intend to go abroad on the 28th of April ; my daughter will accompany us , and , as Mrs. Ellis dreads the sea , I am induced to propose that you join us in New York , and attend the party , as a companion to Emily . 
Trusting to your being now come to a sense of your duty , I am ready to subscribe myself your friend , Gertrude was sitting near a lamp whose light fell directly upon her face , which , as she glanced over Mr. Graham 's note , flushed crimson with wounded pride . 
Dr. Jeremy , who was watching her countenance , observed that she changed color ; and during the few minutes that Mr. and Miss Arnold staid to hear the news he gave an occasional glance of defiance at the letter , and as soon as they were gone begged to be made acquainted with its contents , assuring Gertrude that if she did not let him know what Graham said , he should believe it a thousand times more insulting than it really was . 
`` He writes , '' said Gertrude , `` to invite me to accompany them to Europe . '' 
A pretty position Gertrude would be in , a slave to the whims of all that company ! '' 
`` So much the more need , then , '' said Gertrude , `` that some one should be enlisted in her interests , to ward off the approach of every annoyance . '' 
`` I mean to accept Mr. Graham 's invitation , '' replied Gertrude , `` and join Emily at once ; but I trust the harmony that seems to subsist between her and her new connections will continue undisturbed , so that I shall have no occasion to take up arms on heraccount , and on my ownI do not entertain a single fear . '' 
`` I do , '' said Gertrude ; `` nothing but my duty to Mrs. Sullivan and her father led me to think of leaving Emily . 
`` No , doctor , '' said Gertrude , warmly , `` nothing that I do for Emily ` ssake can be called a sacrifice ; it is my greatest pleasure . '' 
`` O , no , '' said Gertrude , `` my wishes would often lead me astray ; but not in this case . 
`` I do not think he considered any to be needed , '' replied Gertrude . 
Gertrude makes an excellent friend . 
`` Gertrude , '' said Mrs. Jeremy , `` I believe that you were right in leaving Emily when you did , and that you are right in returning to her now ; and , if your being such a good girl as you are is at all due to her , she certainly has a great claim upon you . '' 
`` I hope so , '' said Gertrude ; `` I am sorry to be obliged to ask it of him , for he has been very indulgent to me , and I have been absent from school two weeks out of the winter already ; but , as there want only a few months to the summer vacation , he will , perhaps , be able to supply my place . 
Mrs. Jeremy now interested herself in the details of Gertrude 's arrangements , offered an attic-room for the storage of her furniture , gave up to her a dress-maker whom she had engaged for herself , and , before she left , a plan was laid out , by following which Gertrude would be enabled to start for New York in less than a week . 
Mr. W. , on being applied to , relinquished Gertrude , though deeply regretting , as he told her , to lose so valuable an assistant ; and , after a few days busily occupied in preparation , she bade farewell to the tearful Fanny Bruce , the bustling doctor and his kind-hearted wife , all of whom accompanied her to the railroad-station . 
In less than a fortnight from the time of her departure , Mrs. Ellis returned to Boston , and brought news of the safe conclusion of Gertrude 's journey . 
The same lovely child , whom Gertrude had gazed upon with rapture , as , leaning against the window of her father 's house , she watched old True while he lit his lamp , had ripened into an equally lovely woman . 
After observing the couple who were approaching for a minute or two , she exclaimed , `` Why , that 's Gertrude Flint ! 
I wonder where she 's been ! 
and who can that be with her ? 
Gertrude and her companion now drew near the house ; the former looked up , saw the young ladies in the door-way , and smiled pleasantly at Kitty , who was making strange grimaces , and giving significant glances , over Belle 's shoulder ; but Mr. Bruce , who seemed much engaged by the society he was already enjoying , did not observe either of them ; and they distinctly heard him say , as he handed Gertrude a small parcel he had been carrying for her , `` I believe I wo n't come in ; it 's such a bore to have to talk to strangers . 
`` No , '' replied Gertrude , `` there is nothing left of my garden but the memory of it . '' 
`` Why , Miss Gertrude ! '' 
said the young man , `` I hope these new comers have n't interfered with -- '' Here , observing the direction of Gertrude 's eyes , he raised his own , saw Belle and Kitty standing opposite to him , and , compelled now to recognize and speak with them , went forward to shake hands , trusting to his remarks about strangers in general , and these new comers in particular , not having been overheard . 
His vanity , however , was not proof against the evident pleasure they both manifested at seeing him again , and he was in a few minutes engaged in an animated conversation with them , while Gertrude quietly entered the house , and went up stairs unnoticed . 
She sought Emily 's room , to which she had always free access , and was giving an account of her morning 's expedition to the village , and the successful manner in which she had accomplished various commissions and errands , when Mrs. Ellis put her head in at the door , and said , with a most distressed voice and countenance , `` Has n't Gertrude ? 
`` I will , Mrs. Ellis , -- let medo it , '' said Gertrude , following Mrs. Ellis , who was now half-way down stairs . 
do n't you touch to , Miss Gertrude , '' said Mrs. Prime ; `` they 'll only stain your fingers all up . '' 
Mrs. Ellis was only too thankful for Gertrude 's help , and , seating herself in the dining-room , she commenced the task . 
In the mean while , Belle and Kitty were doing their best to entertain Mr. Bruce , who , sitting on the door-steps , and leaning back against a pillar of the piazza , from time to time cast his eyes down the entry , and up the staircase , in hopes of Gertrude 's reäppearance ; and , despairing of it at last , he was on the point of taking his departure , when his sister Fanny came in at the gate , and , running up the yard , was rushing past the assembled trio and into the house . 
`` I 'm afraid you 'll frighten them , '' replied Fanny ; `` Miss Gertrude does n't like to have them frightened . '' 
`` No , we wo n't , '' said Ben ; `` we are disposed to be very friendly to Miss Gertrude 's birds . 
Where did she get them , -- do you know , Fanny ? '' 
`` I mean to go and ask Miss Gertrude if she does . '' 
Taken thus by surprise , Gertrude neither blushed nor looked confused , but answered , quietly , `` Yes , sometimes ; but what do you , either of you , know of Mr. Sullivan ; -- why do you ask ? '' 
`` O , nothing , '' answered Kitty ; `` only some others do , and we are inquiring round to see how many there are ; '' and she shut the door and ran back in triumph , to tell Belle she might as well be frank , like Gertrude , and plead guilty to the weakness ; it looked so much better than blushing and denying it . 
Perhaps she was somewhat induced to this step by her having observed that Gertrude appeared to be an equal favorite with both . 
She therefore called Fanny to sit beside her , put her arm round her waist , and commenced talking about Gertrude , and the origin and extent of the intimacy which seemed to exist between her and the Bruce family . 
`` And your brother , '' said Kitty ; `` he has known her some time , has n't he ? '' 
`` Does he like her ? '' 
Fanny could not remember at once ; but , on being reminded of the answer she had given , she replied , promptly , `` O , he bade me ask Miss Gertrude if she was n't coming back to see him again , and tell her he was tired to death waiting for her . '' 
Miss Gertrude , '' called she , as Gertrude , who had been to place the strawberries in the refrigerator , crossed the back part of the long entry , `` are you ready now ? '' 
`` Yes , Fanny , I shall be in a moment , '' answered Gertrude . 
I ca n't understand it , when I read it myself ; but when I listen to Miss Gertrude it seems quite plain . 
She 's a splendid reader , and I came in to-day on purpose to hear the play finished . '' 
`` Do you know , I think it was Gertrude Flint . 
She has altered very much , to be sure ; but the features are still the same , and there certainly never was but one such pair of eyes . '' 
`` I have no doubt she is the same person , '' said Belle , composedly . 
Twilightof this same day found Gertrude and Emily seated at a window which commanded a delightful western view . 
Gertrude had been describing to her blind friend the gorgeous picture presented to her vision by the masses of rich and brilliantly-painted cloud ; and Endly , as she listened to the glowing description of nature , as she unfolded herself at an hour which they both preferred to all others , experienced a participation in Gertrude 's enjoyment . 
`` You had better go down , Gertrude , '' said Emily ; `` they appear to be enjoying themselves , and I love to hear your laugh mingling with the rest . '' 
said Gertrude ; `` I prefer to stay with you ; they are nearly all strangers to me . '' 
And so she staid , and they resumed their pleasant conversation , which , though harmonious and calm , was not without its playfulness and occasional gleams of wit . 
`` I suppose I must go down , '' said Emily ; `` you 'll come too , Gertrude ? '' 
`` No , I believe not , unless she asked for me . 
Did she , Katy ? '' 
`` Then I will stay here , '' said Gertrude ; and Emily , finding it to be her wish , went without her . 
It seemed to be a reception evening , and this time Gertrude 's presence was particularly requested , to see Dr. and Mrs. Jeremy . 
Before he could rise and come forward , Mrs. Bruce nodded pleasantly from the opposite corner , and Gertrude went to shake hands with her ; Mr. Bruce , who formed one in a gay circle of young ladies and gentlemen collected in that part of the room , and who had been observing Gertrude 's motions so attentively as to make no reply to a question put to him by Kitty Ray , now rose and offered his chair , saying , `` Miss Gertrude , do take this seat . '' 
`` Thank you , '' said Gertrude , `` but I see my friend the doctor , on the other side of the room ; he expects me to come and speak to him , -- so do n't let me disturb you . '' 
Dr. Jeremy now came half-way across the room to meet her , and , taking her by both hands , led her into the recess formed by the window , and placed her in his own seat , next to Fanny Bruce . 
To the astonishment of all who knew him , Ben Bruce brought his own chair and placed it for the doctor opposite to Gertrude . 
There certainly was to Ben , for , a moment after , Kitty Ray missed him from the room , and immediately espied him standing on the piazza , and leaning through the open window to talk with Gertrude , Dr. Jeremy and Fanny . 
The conversation soon became very lively ; there seemed to be a war of wits going on ; the doctor , especially , laughed very loud , and Gertrude and Fanny often joined in the merry peal . 
Dr. Jeremy was talking with Mr. Bruce concerning something which had happened many years ago ; there was a great deal about a fool 's cap , with a long tassel , and taking afternoon naps in the grass ; the doctor was making queer allusions to some old pear-tree , and traps set for thieves , and kept reminding Gertrude of circumstances which attended their first acquaintance with each other and with Mr. Bruce . 
Kitty was beginning to feel that , as she was uninitiated in all they were talking about , she had placed herself in the position of an intruder , and was thereupon looking a little embarrassed and ill at ease , when Gertrude touched her arm , and , kindly making room for her next herself , motioned to her to sit down , saying , as she did so , `` Dr. Jeremy is speaking of the time when he -LRB- or he and I , as he chooses to have it -RRB- went fruit-stealing in Mrs. Bruce 's orchard , and were unexpectedly discovered by Mr. Bruce . '' 
`` My first acquaintance with you was certainly the greatest awakening of my life , '' said Ben , speaking as if to the doctor , but looking meaningly at Gertrude ; `` that was not the only nap it cost me . 
How sorry I am , Miss Gertrude , that you 've given up working in the garden , as you used to ! 
`` Mrs. Graham has had it remodelled '' replied Gertrude , `` and the new gardener neither needs nor desires my services . 
`` I do n't think , '' said Gertrude , `` that he is as fond of cutting them as I was . 
Kitty now addressed some remark to Mr. Bruce on the subject of gardening , and Gertrude , turning to Dr. Jeremy , continued in earnest conversation with him , until Mrs. Jeremy rose to go , when , approaching the window , she said , `` Dr. Jerry , have you given Gertrude her letter ? '' 
Gertrude took the letter , and , as she thanked the doctor , her eountenance expressed pleasure at receiving it ; a pleasure , however , somewhat tempered by sadness , for she had heard from Willie but once since he learned the news of his mother 's death , and that letter had been such an outpouring of his vehement grief that the sight of his hand-writing almost pained her , as she anticipated something like a repetition of the outburst . 
Mr. Bruce , who kept his eyes upon her , and half expected to see her change color , and look disconcerted , on the letter being handed to her in the presence of so many witnesses , was reässured by the composure with which she took it , and held it openly in her hand while she bade the doctor and his wife good-evening . 
She followed them to the door , and was then retreating to her own apartment , when she was met at the foot of the stairs by Mr. Bruce , who had noticed the movement , and now entered from the piazza in time to arrest her steps , and ask if her letter was of such importance that she must deny the company the pleasure of her society in order to study its contents . 
`` It is from a friend of whose welfare I am anxious to hear , '' said Gertrude , gravely . 
`` O , Miss Gertrude , '' said Mr. Bruce , `` it 's no use coming here to see you , you are so frequently invisible . 
`` Hardly any part , '' said Gertrude . 
`` I am always a very busy character ; but good-night , Mr. Bruce , -- do n't let me detain you from the other young ladies ; '' and Gertrude ran up stairs , leaving Mr. Bruce uncertain whether to be vexed with himself or her . 
Contrary to Gerty 's expectations , her letter from William Sullivan proved very soothing to the grief she had felt on his account . 
His spirit had been so weighed down and crushed by the intelligence of the death of his grandfather , and finally of his second and still greater loss , that his first communication to Gertrude had alarmed her , from the discouraged , disheartened tone in which it was written ; she had feared lest his Christian fortitude would give way to the force of this double affliction . 
She was , therefore , much relieved to find that he now wrote in a calmer strain ; that he had taken to heart his mother 's last entreaty and prayer for a submissive disposition on his part ; and that , although deeply afflicted , he was schooling himself to patience and resignation . 
The three closely-written pages were almost wholly devoted to fervent and earnest expressions of gratitude to Gertrude for the active kindness and love which had cheered and comforted the last days of his much-regretted friends . 
He prayed that Heaven would bless her , and reward her disinterested and self-denying efforts , and closed with saying , `` You are all there is left to me , Gertrude . 
For an hour after she had finished reading , Gertrude sat lost in meditation ; her thoughts went back to her home at Uncle True 's , and the days when she and Willie passed so many happy hours in close companionship , little dreaming of the long separation so soon to ensue . 
She rehearsed , in her mind , all the succeeding events which had brought her into her present position , and was only startled at last from the revery she was indulging in by the voices of Mrs. Gruham 's visitors , who were now taking leave . 
Mrs. Bruce and her son lingered a little , until the carriages had driven off with those of the guests who were to return to the city , and , as they were making their farewells on the door-step , directly beneath Gertrude 's window , she heard Mrs. Graham say , `` Remember , Mr. Bruce , we dine at two ; and , Miss Fanny , we shall hope to see you also . 
This , then , was an arrangement which was to bring Mr. Bruce there to dinner , at no very distant period ; and Gertrude 's reflections , forsaking the past , began to centre upon the present . 
Mr. Bruce 's attentions to her had that day been marked ; and the professions of admiration he had contrived to whisper in her ear had been still more so . 
This was not the case , however , for the outward polish , bestowed by fashion and familiarity with society , could not cloud Gertrude 's discernment ; and she quickly perceived that his old characteristics still remained , heightened and rendered more glaring by an ill-concealed vanity . 
As a boy , he had stared at Gertrude from impudence , and inquired her name out of idle curiosity ; as a youthful coxcomb , he had resolved to flirt with her , because his time hung heavy on his hands , and he could think of nothing better to do . 
If he sought her , as he was frequently in the habit of doing , when she was at work among the flowers , he found it impossible to distract her attention from her labors , or detain her after they were completed ; if he joined her in her walks , and , with his wonted self-conceit , made her aware of the honor lie supposed himself conferring , she either maintained a dignity which warded off his fulsome adulation , or , if he ventured to make her the object of direct compliment , received it as a jest , and retorted with a playfulness and wit which often left the opaque wits of poor Ben in some doubt whether he had not been making himself ridiculous ; and this , not because Gertrude was willing to wound the feelings of one who was disposed to admire her , but because she perceived that he was far from being sincere , and she had an honorable pride which would not endure to be trifled with . 
It was something new to Mr. Bruce to find any lady thus indifferent to his merits ; and proved such an awakening to his ambition , that he resolved , if possible , to recommend himself to Gertrude , and consequently improved every opportunity of gaining admittance to her society . 
While laboring , however , to inspire her with a due appreciation of himself , he fell into his own snare ; for , though he failed in awakening Gertrude 's interest , he could not be equally insensible to her attractions . 
Even the comparatively dull intellect of Ben Bruce was capable of measuring her vast superiority to most girls of her age ; and her vivacious originality was a contrast to the insipidity of fashionable life , which at length completely charmed him . 
His earnestness and perseverance began to annoy the object of his admiration before she left Mr. Graham 's in the autumn , and she was glad soon after to hear that he had accompanied his mother to Washington , as it insured her against meeting him again for months to come . 
Mr. Bruce regretted losing sight of Gertrude , but amid the gayety and dissipation of southern cities contrived to waste his time with tolerable satisfaction . 
He was reminded of her again on meeting the Graham party at New Orleans , and it is some credit to his understanding to say , that in the comparison which he constantly drew between her and the vain daughters of fashion she stood higher than ever in his estimation . 
He did not hesitate to tell her so on the morning already mentioned , when , with evident satisfaction , he had recognized and joined her ; and the increased devotion of his words and manner , which now took a tone of truth in which they had before been wanting , alarmed Gertrude , and led to a serious resolve on her part to avoid him on all possible occasions . 
It will soon be seen how difficult she found it to carry out this resolution . 
Where 's Gertrude ? 
Where 's Gertrude Flint ? 
She 's the only girl I ever saw that did know anything . 
Wo n't you speak to her , Kitty ? '' 
Kitty went , though rather reluctantly , to call Gertrude , and told her for what she was wanted . 
Gertrude was astonished ; since the day when she had persisted in leaving his house , Mr. Graham had never asked her to read to him ; but , obedient to the summons , she presented herself , and , taking the seat which Belle had vacated near the door , commenced with the ship-news , and , without asking any questions , turned to various items of intelligence , taking them in the order which she knew Mr. Graham preferred . 
The old gentleman , leaning back in his easy-chair , and resting his gouty foot upon an ottoman opposite to him , looked amazingly contented and satisfied ; and when Belle and Kitty had gone off to their room , he remarked , `` This seems like old times , does n't it , Gertrude ? '' 
He now closed his eyes , and Gertrude was soon made aware , by his deep breathing , that he had fallen asleep . 
Seeing that , as he sat , it would be impossible for her to pass without waking him , she laid down the paper , and was preparing to draw some work from her pocket -LRB- for Gertrude seldom spent her time in idleness -RRB- , when she observed a shadow in the door-way , and , looking up , saw the very person whom she had yesterday resolved to avoid . 
Mr. Bruce was staring in her face , with an indolent air of ease and confidence , which she always found very offensive . 
He had in one hand a bunch of roses , which he held up to her admiring gaze . 
said Gertrude , as she glanced at the little branches , covered with a luxurious growth of moss-rose buds , both pink and white . 
She spoke in a low voice , fearing to awaken Mr. Graham . 
Mr. Bruce , therefore , softening his to a whisper , remarked , as he dangled them above her head , `` I thought they were pretty when I gathered them , but they suffer from the comparison , Miss Gertrude ; '' and he gave a meaning look at the roses in her cheeks . 
Gertrude , to whom this was a stale compliment , coming from Mr. Bruce , took no notice of it , but , rising , advanced to make her exit by the front-door , saying , `` I will go across the piazza , Mr. Bruce , and send the ladies word that you are here . '' 
said he , putting himself in her way . 
He so effectually prevented her , that she was unwillingly compelled to retreat from the door and resume her seat . 
As she did so , she took her work from her pocket , her countenance in the mean time expressing vexation . 
`` Miss Gertrude , '' said he , `` will you oblige me by wearing these flowers in your hair to-day ? '' 
`` I do not wear gay flowers , '' replied Gertrude , without lifting her eyes from the piece of muslin on which she was employed . 
Supposing this to be on account of her mourning -LRB- for she wore a plain black dress -RRB- , he selected the white buds from the rest , and , presenting them to her , begged that , for his sake , she would display them in contrast with her dark silken braids . 
`` I am much obliged to you , '' said Gertrude ; `` I never saw more beautiful roses , but I am not accustomed to be so much dressed , and believe you must excuse me . '' 
`` Certainly I will , with pleasure , '' said she , rising , `` if you will let me get a glass of water , and place them in the parlor , where we can all enjoy them . '' 
`` If you wo n't wear them , Miss Gertrude , I will offer them to somebody that will . '' 
This , he thought , would alarm her , for his vanity was such that he attributed her behavior wholly to coquetry , and , as instances of this sort had always served to enhance his admiration , he believed that they were intended to produce that effect . 
`` I will punish her , '' thought he , as he tied the roses together again , and arranged them for presentation to Kitty , whom he knew would be flattered to receive them . 
asked Gertrude , anxious to divert the conversation . 
A short silence ensued , during which he gazed idly at Gertrude 's fingers , as she sat sewing . 
`` I wish you were as inoffensive , '' thought Gertrude . 
`` I thought you came by Mrs. Graham 's invitation , '' said Gertrude . 
`` If you obtained it by artifice , '' said Gertrude , smiling , `` you do not deserve to be entertained . '' 
`` Kitty is very amiable and pleasant , '' said Gertrude . 
`` Yes , but I 'd give more for one smile from you than -- '' Gertrude now interrupted him with , `` Ah ! 
The gate at the end of the yard swung to as she spoke , and Ben , looking in that direction , beheld approaching the person whom Gertrude seemed desirous to go and meet . 
`` She is an old friend , '' replied Gertrude ; `` I must go and welcome her . '' 
Her countenance expressed so much earnestness that Mr. Bruce was ashamed to persist in his incivility , and , rising , permitted her to pass . 
Miss Patty Pace -- for she it was who was toiling up the yard -- seemed overjoyed at seeing Gertrude , and , the moment she recognized her , commenced waving , in a theatrical manner , a huge feather fan , her favorite mode of salutation . 
As she drew near , Miss Patty took her by both hands , and stood talking with her some minutes before they proceeded together up the yard . 
They entered the house at the side-door , and Ben , being thus disappointed of Gertrude 's return , sallied out into the garden , in hopes to attract the notice of Kitty . 
Ben Bruce had such confidence in the power of wealth and a high station in fashionable life , that it never occurred to him to doubt that Gertrude would gladly accept his hand and fortune , if it were placed at her disposal . 
No degree of coldness , or even neglect , on her part , would have induced him to believe that an orphan girl , without a cent in the world , would forego such an opportunity to establish herself . 
Many a prudent and worldly-wise mother had sought his acquaintance ; many a young lady , even among those who possessed property and rank of their own , had received his attention with favor ; and believing , as he did , that he had money enough to purchase for a wife any woman whom he chose to select , he would have laughed at the idea that Gertrude would presume to hold herself higher than the rest . 
He had merely determined to win Gertrude 's good opinion and affection ; and , although more interested in her than he was aware of himself , he at present made that his ultimate object . 
He felt conscious that as yet she had given no evidence of his success ; and , having resolved to resort to some new means of winning her , he , with a too common selfishness and baseness , fixed upon a method which was calculated , if successful , to end in the mortification , if not the unhappiness , of a third party . 
He intended , by marked devotion to Kitty Ray , to excite the jealousy of Gertrude ; and it was with the view to furthering his intentions that he walked in the garden , hoping to attract her observation . 
Gertrude 's clear laugh was very distinguishable , and even Emily joined frequently in the outburst which would every now and then occur ; while still another person appeared to be of the party , as a strange and most singular voice occasionally mingled with the rest . 
Kitty ran to the entry two or three times , to listen , and hear , if possible , the subject of their mirth , and at last returned with the announcement that Gertrude was coming down stairs with the very queen of witches . 
Presently Gertrude opened the door , which Kitty had slammed behind her , and ushered in Miss Patty Pace , who advanced with measured , mincing steps to Mrs. Graham , and , stopping in front of her , made a low curtsey . 
said Mrs. Graham , half inclined to believe that Gertrude was playing off a joke upon her . 
said Miss Patty to Gertrude , in an audible whisper , pronouncing each syllable with a manner and emphasis peculiar to herself . 
She then proceeded to examine the pictures upon the walls , but had not proceeded far before she turned to Gertrude and asked , still loud enough to be distinctly heard , `` Gertrude , my dear , what have they done with the second wife ? '' 
Gertrude looked surprised , and Miss Pace corrected her remark , saying , `` O , it is the counterfeit that I have reference to ; the original , I am aware , departed long since ; but where is the counterfeit of the second Mistress Graham ? 
Gertrude whispered a reply to this question , and Miss Pace then uttered the following soliloquy : `` The garret ! 
She now linked her arm in Gertrude 's , and made her the companion of her survey . 
When they had completed the circuit of the room , she stopped in front of the group of young people , all of whom were eying her with great amusement , claimed acquaintance with Mr. Bruce , and asked to be introduced to the member of the war department , as she styled Lieutenant Osborne . 
Kitty introduced her with great formality , and at the same time presented the lieutenant to Gertrude , a ceremony which she felt indignant that her aunt had not thought proper to perform . 
Gertrude again sought Emily 's room . 
At the table , Gertrude , seated next to Emily , whose wants she always made her care , and with Miss Patty on the other side , had no time or attention to bestow on any one else ; much to the chagrin of Mr. Bruce , who was anxious she should observe his assiduous devotion to Kitty , whose hair was adorned with moss-rose buds and her face with smiles . 
`` Yes , '' said Mr. Graham ; `` at present you would not know how to make a will , unless you left all your money to Gertrude , here ; I rather think shewould make a good use of it . '' 
Miss Patty and Fanny Bruce compelled the unwilling Gertrude to join the group there assembled ; and Mrs. Graham , who was never disposed to forego her afternoon nap , was the only member of the family who absented herself . 
On attempting to regain it , Miss Pace stumbled , and would have fallen , but Gertrude -- who had been watching . 
Fanny 's proceedings -- sprung forward in time to fling an arm around her , and place her safely in the chair , casting at the same time a reproachful look at Fanny ; who , much confused , turned to avoid Gertrude 's gaze , and in doing so accidentally trod on Mr. Graham 's gouty toes , which drew from him an exclamation of pain . 
Ah , a lovely , but rare virtue ; perceptibly developed , however , in the manners of my friend Gertrude , which I hesitate not to affirm would well become a princess . '' 
Miss Gertrude , '' said she , with a seriousness which Gertrude rightly believed was intended to express regret for her late rudeness , `` how shall Ilearn politeness ? '' 
`` Do you remember , '' asked Gertrude , speaking low , and giving Fanny a look full of meaning , `` what your music-master told you about learning to playwith expression ? 
said Mr. Graham ; `` let us know , Fanny , what is Gertrude ` srule for politeness . '' 
`` She only said , '' answered Fanny , `` that it was the same my music-master gave me last winter . '' 
Mr. Graham bit his lip , and walked away ; for hispoliteness was founded on no such rule , and he knew that Gertrude 's was.Belle looked glorious disdain ; Mr. Bruce and Kitty , puzzled and half amused ; while Lieutenant Osborne proved himself not quite callous to a noble truth , by turning upon Gertrude a glance of admiration and interest . 
Emily 's face evidenced how fully she coincided in the opinion thus unintentionally made public , and Miss Patty unhesitatingly expressed her approbation . 
`` Miss Gertrude 's remark is undeniably a verity , '' said she . 
`` O , Gertrude knows , '' said Fanny . 
`` Gertrude knows all about Mr. Sullivan ; she will tell you . '' 
All turned , and looked at Gertrude , who , with face flushed , and eyes glistening with the interest she felt in Miss Patty 's narrative , stood leaning upon Emily 's chair . 
Gertrude drew near , and answered all her questions without the least hesitation or embarrassment , but in a tone of voice so low that the others , most of whom felt no interest in Willie , entered into conversation , and left her and Miss Patty to discourse freely concerning a mutual friend . 
Gertrude gave Miss Pace a brief account of the wonder and curiosity which Willie and his friends had felt concerning the original author of his good fortune ; and the old lady was so entertained and delighted at hearing of the various conjectures and doubts which arose on the reception of Mr. Clinton 's unexpected summons , and of the matter being finally attributed to the agency of Santa Claus , that her laugh was nearly as loud , and quite as heart-felt , as that of the gay party near the door-step , whom Kitty and Fanny had excited to unusual merriment . 
Miss Pace was just taxing Gertrude with interminable compliments and messages of remembrance to be despatched in her next letter to Willie , when Mrs. Graham presented herself , refreshed both in dress and countenance since her map , and arrested the attention of the whole company , by exclaiming , in her abrupt manner and loud tones , `` What ! 
No one responded to the question , and , on being individually appealed to , all professed total ignorance ; much to the astonishment of Gertrude , who believed that every part of the woody ground and hill beyond were familiar to Mr. Bruce . 
She did not stay , however , to hear any further discussion of their plans ; for Emily was beginning to suffer from headache and weariness , and Gertrude , perceiving it , insisted that she should seek the quiet of her own room , to which she herself accompanied her . 
She was just closing the chamber-door , when Fanny called from the staircase , `` Miss Gertrude , a n't you going to walk with us ? '' 
`` No , '' replied Gertrude , `` not to-day . '' 
Why do n't you go , Miss Gertrude ? '' 
Meantime a whispered consultation took place below , in which some one suggested that Gertrude was well acquainted with the path which the party wished to follow through the woods . 
Belle opposed her being invited to join them ; Kitty hesitated between her liking for Gertrude and her fears regarding Mr. Bruce 's allegiance ; Lieutenant Osborne forbore to urge what Belle disapproved ; and Mr. Bruce remained silent , trusting to the final necessity of her being invited to act as guide , in which capacity he had purposely concealed his own ability to serve . 
This necessity was so obvious , that , as he had foreseen , Kitty was at last despatched to find Gertrude and make known their request . 
Gertrudewould have declined , and made her attendance upon Emily an excuse for non-compliance ; but Emily herself , believing that the exercise would be beneficial to Gertrude , interfered , and begged her to agree to Kitty 's apparently very cordial proposal ; and , on the latter 's declaring that the expedition must otherwise be given up , she consented to join it . 
said Emily , hearing Gertrude once or twice open and shut the door of the large closet at the end of the upper entry . 
I believe I shall have to borrow your sun-bonnet again , '' and she took up a white sun-bonnet , the same she had worn in the morning , and which now lay on the bed . 
`` I shall begin to think it 's mine , before long , '' said Gertrude , gayly , as she ran off ; `` I wear it so much more than you do . '' 
She found Fanny waiting for her ; the rest of the party had started , and were some distance down the road , nearly out of sight . 
Emily now called from the stairease , `` Gertrude , my child , have you thick shoes ? 
Gertrude assured her that she had ; but , fearing that the others were less carefully equipped , inquired of Mrs. Graham whether Belle and Kitty were insured against the dampness , possibly the mud , they might encounter . 
`` I have some very light India-rubbers , '' said Gertrude ; `` I will take them with me , and Fanny and I shall be in time to warn them before they come to the place . '' 
The reverse , however , was the case with Mr. Bruce and Kitty , who appeared purposely to keep in advance ; Kitty hastening her steps from her reluctance to allow an agreeable tête-à-tête to be interfered with , and Ben from a desire to occupy such a position as would give Gertrude a fair opportunity to observe his devotion to Kitty , which increased the moment shecame in sight whose jealousy he was desirous to arouse . 
Gertrude and Fanny were some distance behind , and already nearly out of breath with a pursuit in which the others had gained so great an advantage . 
As they were passing the farm-house , Mrs. Thornton appeared at the door and addressed Gertrude , who , foreseeing that she should be detained some minutes , bade Fanny run on , acquaint her brother and Kitty with the nature of the soil in advance , and beg them to wait at the bars until the rest of the party came up . 
Fanny was too late , notwithstanding the haste she made ; they were half across the meadow when she reached the bars , proceeding , however , in perfect safety , for Mr. Bruce was conducting Kitty by the only practicable path , close under the wall , proving to Gertrude , who in a few moments joined Fanny , that he was no stranger to the place . 
Isabel and the lieutenant were so long making their appearance that Fanny became very impatient , and urged Gertrude to leave them to their fate . 
Belle disdained any reply to this , and , tossing her head , entered the damp meadow , in close conversation with her devoted young officer , not deigning even to look at Gertrude , who , without appearing to notice her haughtiness , took Fanny 's hand , and , turning away from the direct path , to make the circuit of the field , said to Belle , with an unruffled ease and courtesy of manner , `` This way , if you please , Miss Clinton ; we have been waiting to guide you through this wet meadow . '' 
`` It was not my proposition , '' remarked Gertrude , mildly , though with a heightened color , `` but I think I can help you through the difficulty . 
`` Mine , '' replied Gertrude . 
Belle , perceiving this to be the case , bent down to perform the office for herself , and treated Gertrude 's property with such angry violence that she snapped the slender strap which passed across the instep , and even then only succeeded in partially forcing her foot into the shoe . 
Meantime , as she bent forward , Fanny 's attention was attracted by a very tasteful broad-brimmed hat , which she wore jauntily set on one side of her head , and which Fanny at once recognized as Gertrude 's . 
It was a somewhat fanciful article of dress , that Gertrude would hardly have thought of purchasing for herself , but which Mr. Graham had selected and brought home to her the previous summer , to replace a common garden hat which he had accidentally crushed and ruined . 
As the style of it was simple and in good taste , she had been in the habit of wearing it often in her country walks , and usually kept it hung in the entry closet , where it had been found and appropriated by Belle . 
It had been seen by Fanny in Gertrude 's room at Mrs. Warren 's ; she had also been permitted to wear it on one occasion , when she took part in a charade , and could not be mistaken as to its identity . 
Having heard Gertrude remark to Emily upon its being missing , she was astonished to see it adorning Belle ; and , as she stood behind her , deliberately pointed , made signs to Gertrude , opened her eyes , distorted her countenance , and performed a series of pantomimic gestures expressive of an intention to snatch it from Miss Clinton 's head , and place it on that of its rightful owner . 
Gertrude 's gravity nearly gave way ; she shook her head at Fanny , held up her finger , made signs for her to forbear , and , with a face whose laughter was only concealed by the deep white bonnet which she wore , took her hand , and hastened with her along the path , leaving Belle and beau to follow . 
`` Yes , she shall , '' replied Gertrude ; `` she looks beautifully in it . 
Fanny would not promise , and there was a sly look in her eye which prophesied mischief . 
The walk through the woods was delightful , and Gertrude and her young companion , in the quiet enjoyment of it , had almost forgotten that they were members of a gay party , when they suddenly came in sight of Kitty and Mr. Bruce . 
They were sitting at the foot of an old oak , Kitty earnestly engaged in the manufacture of an oak-wreath , which she was just fitting to her attendant 's hat ; while he himself , when Gertrude first caught sight of him , was leaning against the tree in a careless , listless attitude . 
As soon , however , as he perceived their approach , he bent forward , inspected Kitty 's work , and , when they came within hearing , was uttering a profusion of thanks and compliments , which he took care should reach Gertrude 's ears , and which the blushing , smiling Kitty received with manifest pleasure , -- a pleasure which was still further enhanced by her perceiving that Gertrude had apparently no power to withdraw his attention from her , but that , on the contrary , he permitted her rival to seat herself at a distance , and continued to pour into her own ear little confidential nothings . 
`` Miss Gertrude , '' said Fanny , `` I wish we could go into some pine woods , so that I could get some cones to make baskets and frames of . '' 
`` There are plenty of pines in that direction , '' said Gertrude , pointing with her finger . 
Gertrude professed her willingness to do so , and she and Fanny started off , having first tied their bonnets to the branch of a tree . 
Gertrude promised to await her return , and she ran off . 
When she came near the spot where she had left Kitty and Mr. Bruce , she heard several voices and loud laughter . 
Where 's Gertrude ? '' 
`` O , she 's in the pine woods ! '' 
replied Fanny , `` and I 'm going right back ; she only sent me to get her hat , the sun 's so warm where we are . '' 
said Belle , `` her Paris hat . 
Please give it to her , with our compliments . '' 
`` I sha n't do any such thing , '' said Fanny ; `` it 's Gertrude 's hat . 
She looked for it this afternoon , but concluded it was either lost or stolen , and so borrowed Miss Emily 's cape-bonnet ; but she 'll be very glad to find it , and I 'll carry it to her . 
A few moments of embarrassment and anger to Belle , laughter from Kitty and Mr. Bruce , and concealed amusement on Lieutenant Osborne 's part , and Gertrude came hastily from the woods , with the hat in her hand , Fanny following her , and taking advantage of Belle 's position , with her back towards her , to resume her pantomimic threats and insinuations . 
`` Miss Clinton , '' said Gertrude , as she placed the hat in her lap , `` I am afraid Fanny has been very rude in my name . 
`` Certainly not ; I am aware of it , '' said Gertrude . 
Without urging the matter further , she proposed that they should hasten on to the top of the hill , which they could not otherwise reach before sundown ; and set the example by moving forward in that direction , Fanny accompanying her , and busying herself as she went with stripping the decorations from Emily 's despised bonnet ; Belle tying an embroidered handkerchief under her chin , and Mr. Bruce swinging on his arm the otherwise neglected hat . 
Here Gertrude left them , telling Fanny that she had promised to stop and see Jemmy Thornton , one of her Sunday-school class , who was sick with a fever , and refusing to let her remain , as her mother might not wish her to enter the house where several of the family were sick . 
About an hour after , as Gertrude was walking home in some haste , she was joined near Mr. Graham 's house by Mr. Bruce , who , with her hat still hanging on his arm , seemed to have been awaiting her return . 
She started on his abruptly joining her , for it was so dark that she did not at once recognize him , and supposed it might be a stranger . 
`` Miss Gertrude , '' said he , `` I hope I do n't alarm you . '' 
`` O , no , '' said she , reässured by the sound of his voice , `` I did not know who it was . '' 
He offered his arm , and she took it ; for his recent devotion to Kitty had served in some degree to relieve her of any fear she had felt lest his attentions carried meaning with them ; and , concluding that he liked to play beau-general , she had no objection to his escorting her home . 
`` I think she is , '' replied Gertrude ; `` I like her frank , lively manners much . '' 
`` Fanny and I are accustomed to each other , and very happy together , '' said Gertrude . 
`` I suppose Miss Ray expects I shall ask her to go with me ; but supposing , Miss Gertrude , I should give you the preference , and ask you , -- what should you say ? '' 
`` That I was much obliged to you , but had an engagement to take a drive with Miss Emily , '' replied Gertrude , promptly . 
`` Thank you , '' said Gertrude , and would have taken it ; but Ben still held it by one string , and said , `` Then you wo n't go , Miss Gertrude ? '' 
`` My engagement with Miss Emily can not be postponed on any account , '' answered Gertrude , thankful that she had so excellent a reason for declining . 
The weight he seemed to attach to this threat astonished Gertrude . 
`` Can it be possible , '' thought she , `` that he expects thus to pique and annoy me ? '' 
and she replied to it by saying , `` I shall be happy if my declining prove the means of Kitty 's enjoying a pleasant drive ; she is fond of variety , and has few opportunities here to indulge her taste . '' 
Mr. Bruce sought Kitty in the recess of the window , and Gertrude , not finding Emily present , staid but a short time in the room ; long enough , however , to observe Mr. Bruce 's exaggerated devotion to Kitty , which was marked by others beside herself . 
Mrs. Graham , Mrs. Bruce , Belle and the lieutenant , went also in another vehicle ; and Emily and Gertrude , according to their original intention , took a different direction , and , driving white Charlie in the old-fashioned buggy , rejoiced in their quiet independence . 
Believing , as he did , that Gertrude would in time show a disposition to win him back , he was anxious only to carry his addresses to Kitty to such a point as would excite a serious alarm in the mind of the poor protegée of the Grahams , who dared to slight his proffered advances . 
Acting then as he did almost wholly with reference to Gertrude , it was only in her presence , or under such circumstances that he was sure it would reach her ears , that he manifested a marked interest in Kitty ; and his behavior was , therefore , in the highest degree unequal , leading the warm-hearted Kitty to believe one moment that he felt for her almost the tenderness of a lover , and the next to suffer under the apprehension of having unconsciously wounded or offended him by her careless gayety or conversation . 
Gertrude , whose eyes were soon opened to the existing state of things , was filled with regret and apprehension on account of Kitty , for whose peace and welfare she felt a tender and affectionate concern . 
The suspicions to which Mr. Bruce 's conduct gave rise , during the scenes which have been detailed , were soon strengthened into convictions ; for , on several occasions , after he had been offering Kitty ostentatious proofs of devotion , he thought proper to test their effect upon Gertrude by the tender of some attention to herself ; more than intimating , at the same time , that she had it in her power to rob Kitty of all claim upon his favor . 
Gertrude availed herself of every opportunity to acquaint him with the truth , that he could not possibly render himself more odious in her eyes than by the use of such mean attempts to mortify her ; but , attributing her warmth to the very feeling of jealousy which he desired to excite , the selfish young man persevered in his course of folly and wickedness . 
As he only proffered his attentions , and made no offer of his heart and hand , Gertrude did not in the least trust his professions towards herself , considering them merely as intended , if possible , to move her from her firm and consistent course of behavior , in order to gratify his self-love . 
But she saw plainly that , however light and vain his motives might be in her own case , they were still more so with reference to Kitty ; and she was deeply grieved at the evident unconsciousness of this fact which the simple girl constantly exhibited . 
For , strangely enough , Kitty , having quite forgotten that she had a few weeks back looked upon Gertrude as a rival , now chose her for her bosom friend and confidant . 
Her aunt was too coarse and rough , Belle too selfish and vain , to be intrusted with little matters of the heart ; and , though Kitty had no idea of confessing her partiality for Mr. Bruce , the transparency of her character was such , that she betrayed her secret to Gertrude without being in the least aware that she had done so . 
Though no one but Gertrude appeared to observe it , Kitty was wonderfully changed ; -- the gay , laughing , careless Kitty had now her fits of musing , -- her sunny face was subject to clouds , that flitted across it , and robbed it of all its brightness . 
If she saw Gertrude walking in the garden , or sitting alone in her room , she would approach , throw her arm around her , lean against her shoulder , and talk on her favorite topic . 
She would relate , with a mixture of simplicity and folly , the complimentary speeches and polite attentions of Mr. Bruce ; talk about him for an hour , and question Gertrude as to her opinion of his merits , and the sincerity of his avowed admiration for herself . 
She would intimate her perception of some fault possessed by him , who was in her eyes almost perfection ; and when Gertrude coincided with her , and expressed regret at the evident failing , she would exhaust a great amount of strength and ingenuity in her efforts to prove that they were both mistaken in attributing it to him , and that , if he had a fault , it was in reality quite the reverse . 
She would ask if Gertrude really supposed he meant all he said , and add that of course shedid n't believe he did , -- it was all nonsense . 
And if Gertrude embraced the opportunity to avow the same opinion , and declare that it was not best to trust all his high-flown flatteries , poor Kitty 's face would fall , and she would proceed to give her reasons for sometimesthinking he was sincere , he had such a truthful , earnestway of speaking . 
At last Mr. Bruce thought proper to try Gertrude 's firmness by offering to her acceptance a rich ring . 
Not a little surprised at his presumption , she declined it without hesitation or ceremony , and the next day saw it on the finger of Kitty , who was eager to give an account of its presentation . 
asked Gertrude , with such a look of astonishment , that Kitty observed it , and evaded an acknowledgment of having done so , by saying , with a blushing countenance , that she agreed to wear it a little while . 
`` I would n't , '' said Gertrude . 
Kitty looked very undecided ; but , on reflection , concluded to offer it to Mr. Bruce , and tell him what Gertrude said . 
She did so , and that gentleman , little appreciating Gertrude 's motives , and believing her only desirous of making difficulty between him and Kitty , jumped at the conclusion that her heart was won at last , and that his triumph would now be complete . 
Thus he soliloquized ; and as , every time he revolved the subject , he commenced by dwelling upon the immense sacrifice he was making , and euded with reflections upon Gertrude 's charms , it may well be supposed that he ultimately came to the conclusion that he should suffer less by laying his fortune at her feet than by the endeavor to enjoy that fortune without her . 
For a few days after he arrived at a resolve on this point , he had no opportunity to address a word to Gertrude , who was now doubly anxious to avoid him , and spent nearly the whole day above stairs , except when , at Emily 's request , she accompauied her for a short time into the parlor ; and even then she took pains , under some pretext or other , to remain close by the side of her blind friend . 
Her rich evening dresses were brought out , for the selection of the most suitable and becoming ; and as she stood before her mirror , and tried on first one wreath and then another , and looked so beautiful in each that it was difficult to make a choice , Kitty , who stood by , eagerly endeavoring to win her attention , and obtain her advice concerning the style and style and color most desirable for herself , gave up in despair , and ran off to consult Gertrude . 
She found her reading in her own room ; but , on Kitty 's abrupt entrance , she laid down her book , and gave her undivided attention to the subject which was under discussion . 
`` Gertrude , '' said Kitty , `` what shall I wear this evening ? 
asked Gertrude . 
-- So , do tell me , Gertrude , what had I better wear to-night ? '' 
`` Well , then , '' said Kitty , `` to say nothing of yourself -LRB- for I know you 're superior to flattery , Gertrude , -- somebodytold me so -RRB- , who furnishes Miss Emily 's wardrobe ? 
`` No , indeed , -- that is what I like ; but , Gertrude , has n't she always been blind ? '' 
`` No ; until she was sixteen she had beautiful eyes , and could see as well as you can . '' 
`` What happened to her ? 
How did she lose them ? '' 
`` I heard that she did n't like to speak of it . '' 
`` But she would have told you ; she half worships you . '' 
`` If she had wished me to know , she would have told without my asking . '' 
Kitty stared at Gertrude , wondering much at such unusual delicacy and consideration , and instinctively admiring a forbearance of which she was conscious she should herself have been incapable . 
said Gertrude , smiling at Kitty 's abstraction . 
`` No , I should think not , '' said Gertrude ; `` but come , Kitty , we will go to your room and see the dresses , and I will give my opinion . '' 
Kitty 's wardrobe having been inspected , and Gertrude having expressed her preference for a thin and flowing material , especially in the summer season , a delicate white crape was fixed upon . 
And now there was a new difficulty ; among all her head-dresses , none proved satisfactory , -- all were more or less defaced , and none of them to be compared with a new and exquisite wreath which Isabel was arranging among her curls . 
and she took up some flowers , which were , indeed , a rare imitation of nature , and , displaying them to Gertrude , added that they were just what she wanted . 
and , snatching them from her , she replaced them in the box , opened a drawer in her bureau , and , having deposited them there , took the precaution to lock them up and put the key in her pocket , -- an action which Gertrude witnessed with astonishment , not unmingled with indignation . 
`` Kitty , '' said she , `` I will arrange a wreath of natural flowers for you , if you wish . '' 
`` Will you , Gertrude ? '' 
True to her promise , Gertrude prepared a head-dress for Kitty ; and so tastefully did she mingle the choicest productions of the garden , that , when Isabel saw her cousin arrayed under a more careful and affectionate superintendence than she often enjoyed , she felt , notwithstanding her own proud consciousness of superior beauty , a sharp pang of jealousy of Kitty , and dislike to Gertrude . 
Therefore , when Mrs. Graham complimented the latter on her unusually attractive appearance , and declared that somebodywould this night be more charmed than ever , Isabel curled her lip with mingled disdain and defiance , while the blushing Kitty turned to Gertrude and whispered in her ear , `` Mr. Bruce likes white ; he said so , the other day , when you passed through the room dressed in your mulled muslin . '' 
After Mrs. Garham and her nieces had gone down stairs to await Mr. Graham 's pleasure and Mrs. Bruce 's arrival , Gertrude returned to Emily , whom she had left only a short time before , and found her suffering more than usual from what she termed her troublesome head . 
She was easily induced to seek the only infallible cure -- sleep ; and Gertrude , seating herself on the bed-side , as she was frequently in the habit of doing , bathed her temples until she fell into a quiet slumber . 
Gertrude sat some time longer without changing her position ; then , quietly rising and arranging everything for the night , according to Emily 's well-known wishes , she closed the door gently behind her , sought a book in her own room , and , entering the cool and vacant parlor , seated herself at a table , to enjoy the now rare opportunity for perfect stillness and repose . 
Could you believe , Miss Gertrude , I should find any pleasure in a party which did not include yourself ? '' 
`` I certainly should not have the vanity to suppose the reverse , '' replied Gertrude . 
`` I wish you had a little more vanity , Miss Gertrude . 
`` But I have a meaning , Gertrude , a deepmeaning . 
I have been trying for several days to find an opportunity to tell you of my resolve , and you mustlisten to me now ; '' for he saw her change color and look anxious and uneasy . 
And , as to the world , I do n't see but you can hold your head as high as anybody , Gertrude ; so , if you 've no objection to make , we 'll play at cross purposes no longer , and consider the thing settled ; '' and he endeavored to take her hand . 
But Gertrude drew back ; the color flushed her cheeks , and her eyes glistened as she fixed them upon his face with an expression of astonishment and pride that could not be mistaken . 
`` With your frankness , '' said Gertrude , calmly ; `` no , that is a thing that never displeases me . 
The expression of wounded pride vanished from Gertrude 's face . 
`` He knows no better , '' thought she ; `` I should pity his vanity and ignorance , and sympathize in his disappointment ; '' and , in disclaiming , with a positiveness which left no room for further self-deception , any interest in Mr. Bruce beyond that of an old acquaintance and sincere well-wisher , she nevertheless softened her refusal by the choice of the mildest language , and terms the least likely to grieve or mortify him . 
She felt , as every true woman must under similar circumstances , that her gratitude and consideration were due to the man who , however little she might esteem him , had paid herthe highest honor ; and , though her regret in the matter was somewhat tempered by the thought of Kitty , and the strangeness of Mr. Bruce 's conduct towards her , now rendered doubly inexplicable , she did not permit thatreflection , even , to prevent her from maintaining the demeanor , not only of a perfect lady , but of one who , in giving pain to another , laments the necessity of so doing . 
`` Gertrude , '' said he , `` you are either trifling with me or yourself . 
Gertrude 's old temperrose at this insulting language , beat and throbbed in her chafed spirit , and even betrayed itself in the tips of her fingers , which trembled as they rested on the table near which she stood -LRB- having risen as Mr. Bruce spoke -RRB- ; but , though this was an unlooked-for and unwonted rebellion of an old enemy , her feelings had too long been under strict regulation to yield to the blast , however sudden , and she replied in a tone which , though slightly agitated , was far from being angry , `` Allowing I could so far forget myself , Mr. Bruce , I would not do yousuch an injustice as to marry you for your fortune . 
I do not despise wealth , for I know the blessing it may often be ; but my affections can not be bought with gold ; '' and as she spoke she moved towards the door . 
said Mr. Bruce , catching her hand ; `` listen to me one moment ; let me ask you one question . 
`` No , '' answered Gertrude ; `` but I confess I have not understood your motives . '' 
exclaimed Gertrude ; `` for mysake , if not for your own!O , how -- '' She could say no more , but , sinking into the nearest seat , burst into tears , and hiding her face in her hands , as had been her habit in childhood , wept without restraint . 
Mr. Bruce stood by in utter amazement ; at last he approached her , and asked , in a low voice , `` What is the matter ? 
It was some minutes before she could reply to the question ; then , lifting her head , and tossing the hair from her forehead , she displayed features expressive only of the deepest grief , and said , in broken accents , `` What have you done ? 
A most disconcerted appearance did Ben present at her words , and hesitating was the tone in which he muttered , `` She will get over it . '' 
said Gertrude ; `` her love for you ? 
asked Gertrude . 
`` You take it very seriously , Gertrude ; such flirtations are common . '' 
`` I am sorry to hear it , '' said Gertrude . 
`` I think you 're rather hard , Miss Gertrude , when it was my love for you that prompted my conduct . '' 
`` Perhaps I am , '' said Gertrude . 
Ben went a step or two towards the door , then stopped , came back , and said , `` After all , Gertrude Flint , I believe the time will come when your notions will grow less romantic , and you will look back to this night and wish you had acted differently . 
Immediately upon this remark he left the room , and Gertrude heard him shut the hall-door with a loud bang as he went out . 
Gertrude started , and , as she went towards the spot , heard distinctly a smothered sob . 
She lifted a draperied curtain , and there , upon the wide window-seat , her head bent over and buried in the cushions , and her little slender form distorted into a strange and forlorn attitude , -- such as might be seen in a grieved child , -- sat , or rather crouched , poor Kitty Ray . 
cried Gertrude , at once recognizing her , although her face was hid . 
At the sound of her voice , Kitty sprung suddenly from her recumbent posture , threw herself into Gertrude 's arms , laid her head upon her shoulder , and , though she did not , couldnot weep , shook and trembled with an agitation which was perfectly uncontrollable . 
Her hand , which grasped Gertrude 's , was fearfully cold ; her eyes seemed fixed ; and occasionally , at intervals , the same hysterical sound which had at first betrayed her in her hiding-place alarmed her young protector , to whom she clung as if seized with sudden fear . 
Gertrude supported her to a seat , and then , folding the slight form to her bosom , chafed the cold hands , and again and again kissing the rigid lips , succeeded at last in restoring her to something like composure . 
For an hour she lay thus , receiving Gertrude 's caresses with evident pleasure , and now and then returning them convulsively , but speaking no word , and making no noise . 
Gertrude , with the truest judgment and delicacy , refrained from asking questions , or recurring to a conversation the whole of which had been thus overheard and comprehended ; but , patiently waiting until Kitty grew more quiet and calm , prepared for her a soothing draught ; and then , finding her completely prostrated , both in mind and body , passed her arm around her waist , guided her up stairs , and , without the ceremony of an invitation , took her into her own room , where , if she proved wakeful , she would be spared the wonder and scrutiny of Isabel . 
Still clinging to Gertrude , the poor girl , to whose relief tears came at last , sobbed herself to sleep ; and all her sufferings were for a time forgotten in that oblivion in which childhood and youth find a temporary rest , and often a healing balm to pain . 
It was otherwise , however , with Gertrude , who , though of nearly the same age as Kitty , had seen too much trouble , experienced too much care , to enjoy , in times of disquiet , the privilege of sinking easily to repose . 
It was past midnight when Mrs. Graham and her niece returned home , and Gertrude went immediately to inform the latter that her cousin was asleep in her room . 
The noise of the carriages , however , had awakened the sleeper , and when Gertrude returned she was rubbing her eyes , and trying to collect her thoughts . 
Suddenly the recollection of the scene of the evening flashed upon her , and , with a deep sigh , she exclaimed , `` O , Gertrude ! 
`` No , I should not , '' said Gertrude ; `` but I would n't dream about him , Kitty , nor think of him any more ; we will both go to sleep and forget him . '' 
`` He loves you , and you do not care for him ; but I -- I -- '' Here her feelings overpowered her , and she buried her face in the pillow . 
Gertrude approached , laid her hand kindly upon the head of the poor girl , and finished the sentence for her . 
`` No , you are not , '' said Gertrude , encouragingly ; `` and you must prove it to him . '' 
`` Will you help me , Gertrude ? 
Gertrude 's fervent embrace was assurance enough of her cooperation and sympathy . 
`` You will be as bright and happy as ever in a few weeks , '' said she ; `` you will soon cease to care for a person whom you no longer respect . '' 
Kitty disclaimed the possibility of ever being happy again ; but Gertrude , though herself a novice in the ways of the human heart , was much more sanguine and hopeful . 
She saw that Kitty 's violent outburst of sobs and tears was like a child 's impetuous grief , and suspected that the deepest recesses of her nature were safe , and unendangered by the storm . 
Kitty would then seek refuge with Gertrude , relate her trials , and claim her sympathy ; and she not only found in her a friendly listener to her woes , but invariably acquired in her society greater strength and cheerfulness than she could elsewhere rally to her aid , so that she became gradually dependent upon her for the only peace she enjoyed ; and Gertrude , who felt a sincere interest in the girl who had been on her account subjected to such cruel deception , and whose drooping spirits and pensive countenance spoke touchingly of her inner sorrow , spared no pains to enliven her sadness , divert her thoughts , and win her to those occupations and amusements in which she herself had often found a relief from preying care and vexation . 
Many a time , when Isabel had been tantalizing and wounding Kitty beyond what her patience could endure , and Gertrude had been vainly sought elsewhere , a little figure would present itself at the half-open door of Miss Graham 's room , and was sure to hear the sweetest of voices saying from within , `` I hear you , Kitty ; come in , my dear ; we shall be glad of your pleasant company ; '' and once there , seated by the side of Gertrude , learning from her some little art in needle-work , listening to an agreeable book , or Emily 's more agreeable conversation , Kitty passed hours which were never forgotten , so peaceful were they , so serene , so totally unlike any she had ever spent before . 
Littledid Gertrude imagine , while she was striving most disinterestedly to promote the welfare and happiness of Kitty , who had thrown herself upon her love and care , the jealousy and ill-will she was exciting in others . 
She was not slow to observe the remarkable degree of confidence that seemed to exist between Kitty and Gertrude ; she remembered that her cousin had forsaken her own room for that of the latter the very night after her probable quarrel and parting with Bruce ; and , her resentment and anger excited still farther by the growing friendship which her own coldness and unkindness to Kitty served only to strengthen and confirm , she hastened to communicate to Mrs. Graham her suspicion that Gertrude had , for purposes of her own , made a difficulty between Bruce and Kitty , fostered and widened the breach , and succeeded at last in breaking off the match . 
Thus leagued together , they endeavored to surprise or entrap Kitty into a confession of the means which had been taken by Gertrude to drive away her lover , and out-wit herself . 
But Kitty , while she indignantly denied Gertrude 's having thus injured her , persisted obstinately in refusing to reveal the occurrences of the eventful evening of the wedding levee . 
Mrs. Graham and Belle were now truly angry , and many were the private discussions held by them on the subject , many the vain conjectures which they conjured up ; and as , day after day , they became more and more incensed against Gertrude , so they gradually began to manifest it in their demeanor . 
Gertrude soon perceived the incivility to which she was constantly subjected ; for , though in a great degree independent of their friendship , she could not live under the same roof without their having frequent opportunities to wound her by their rudeness , which soon became marked , and would have been unendurable to one whose disposition was less thoroughly schooled than Gertrude 's . 
With wonderful patience , however , did she preserve her equanimity . 
She had never looked for kindness and attention from Mrs. Graham and Isabel . 
Gertrude could bear injury , injustice , and even hard and cruel language , when exercised towards herself only ; but her blood boiled in her veins when she began to perceive that her cherished Emily was becoming the victim of mean and petty neglect and ill usage . 
To address the gentle Emily in other words than those of courtesy was next to impossible ; it was equally hard to find fault with the actions of one whose life was so good and beautiful ; and the somewhat isolated position which she occupied on account of her blindness seemed to render her secure from interference ; but Mrs. Graham was coarse and blunt , Isabel selfish and unfeeling , and long before the blind girl was herself aware of any unkind intention on their part , Gertrude 's spirit had chafed and rebelled at the sight and knowledge of many a word and act , well calculated , if perceived , to annoy and distress a sensitive and delicate spirit . 
Many a stroke was warded off by Gertrude ; many a neglect atoned for , before it could be felt ; many a nearly defeated plan , which Emily was known to have had at heart , carried through and accomplished by Gertrude 's perseverance and energy ; and for some weeks Emily was kept ignorant of the fact that many a little office formerly performed for her by a servant was now fulfilled by Gertrude , who would not let her know that Bridget had received from her mistress orders which were quite inconsistent with her usual attendance upon Miss Graham 's wants . 
The misunderstanding with Mr. Bruce , and their unworthy suspicions of its having been fostered by Gertrude , aided and abetted by Emily , furnished , however , an ostensible motive for the indulgence of their animosity , and one of which they resolved to avail themselves to the utmost . 
Tell Emily to spare nothing towards a full and complete equipment for herself and Gertrude . '' 
`` He speaks of Gertrude , '' said Isabel , sneeringly , `` as if she were one of the family . 
`` I wish he would leave them at home , '' said Mrs. Graham ; `` it would be a good punishment for Gertrude . 
`` Ido n't have to wait upon her , '' said Mrs. Graham ; `` that 's Gertrude 's business -- it 's what she 's going for . '' 
I 'm sure I do n't want Gertrude 's company any more than you do ; but I do n't see how I can get rid of her . '' 
`` I should think you 'd tell Mr. Graham some of the harm she 's done already . 
If you have any influence over him , you might prevent her going . '' 
`` It would be no more than she deserves , '' said Mrs. Graham , thoughtfully , `` and I am not sure but I shall give him a hint of her behavior ; he 'll be surprised enough when he hears of Bruce 's sudden flight . 
As Isabel descended the front staircase , to meet with smiles and compliments the guests whom in her heart she wished a thousand miles away on this intensely hot afternoon , Gertrude came up by the back way from the kitchen , and passed along a passage leading to her own room . 
She carried , over one arm , a dress of delicate white muslin , and a number of embroidered collars , sleeves and ruffles , together with other articles evidently fresh from the ironing-board . 
Her face was flushed and heated ; she looked tired , and , as she reached her room , and carefully deposited her burden upon the bed , she drew a long breath , as if much fatigued , seated herself by a window , brushed the hair back from her face , and threw open a blind , to feel , if possible , a breath of cool air . 
Just at this moment , Mrs. Prime put her head in at the half-open door , and , seeing Gertrude alone , entered the room , but stood fixed with astonishment on observing the evidences of her recent laborious employment ; then , glancing directly opposite at the fruits of her diligence , she burst forth , indignantly , `` My sakes alive ! 
Miss Gertrude , I do believe you 've been doin ' up them muslins yourself , after all ! '' 
Gertrude smiled , but did not reply . 
`` It hardly looks fitfor her to wear , '' said Gertrude . 
`` It looks elegant , Miss Gertrude ; but what should you be doin ' Bridget 's work for , I want to know ? '' 
`` Bridget always has enough to do , '' said Gertrude , evading a direct answer , `` and it 's very well for me to have some practice ; knowledge never comes amiss , you know , Mrs. Prime . '' 
Thinks I to myself then , what would Miss Gertrude say , if she suspected as how Miss Emily was bein ' neglected ! 
But I 'll tellMiss Emily , as sure as my name 's Prime , just how things go ; -- you sha n't get so red in the face with ironing agin , Miss Gertrude . 
If the kind o ' frocks she likes to wear ca n't be done up at home , -- and yourn too , what 's more , -- the washin ' ought to be put out . 
I wish to heart thatIsabella could have to start round a little lively ; ' t would do her good ; but , Lor ' Miss Gertrude , it goes right to my heart to see all the vexatious things as is happenin ' now-a-days ! 
`` No , you wo n't , Mrs. Prime , '' said Gertrude , persuasively , `` when I ask you not to . 
`` Miss Gertrude , '' said she , `` I thought I loved our dear young lady as well as anybody could , but I believe you love her better still , to be so thoughtful and wise-like all for her sake ; and I would n't say nothin ' about it , only I think a sight o ' you , too ; you 've been here ever since you was a little gal , and we all set lots by you , and I ca n't see them folks ride over your head , as I know they mean to . '' 
`` Lord bless yer heart , Miss Gertrude , them folks is lucky to have you to deal with ; it is n't everybody as would put up with ' em . 
It 's mighty hard for me to see our own ladies imposed upon ; but since you say ` mum , ' Miss Gertrude , I 'll try and hold my tongue as long as I can . 
An hour after , Gertrude was at the glass , braiding up the bands of her long hair , when Mrs. Ellis , after a slight knock at the door , entered . 
`` Well , Gertrude , '' said she `` I did n't think it would come to this ! '' 
inquired Gertrude , anxiously . 
Gertrude colored , but did not speak , and Mrs. Ellis went on to relate that she had just received orders to fit up Gertrude 's room for some visitors who were expected the next day . 
She was astonished to hear that Gertrude had not been consulted on the subject . 
Deeply wounded and vexed , both on her own and Emily 's account , Gertrude stood for a moment silent and irresolute . 
She then asked if Mrs. Ellis had spoken to Emily on the subject . 
Gertrude begged her to say nothing about it . 
`` I can not bear , '' said she , `` to let her know that the little sanctum she fitted up so carefully has been unceremoniously taken from me . 
I sleep in her room more than half the time , as you know ; but she always likes to have me call this chamber mine , that I may be sure of a place where I can read and study by myself . 
She had grown strangely humble and compliant within a few months , and Gertrude had completely won her good-will ; first by forbearance , and latterly by the frequent favors and assistance she had found it in her power to render the overburdened housekeeper . 
So she made no objection to receive her into her room as an inmate , and even offered to assist in the removal of her wardrobe , work-table and books . 
But , though yielding and considerate towards Gertrude , whom , with Emily and Mrs. Prime , she now considered members of the oppressed and injured party to which she herself belonged , no words could express her indiguation with regard to the late behavior of Mrs. Graham and Isabel . 
You do n't want to go , do you , Gertrude ? '' 
It is needless to detail the many petty annoyances to which Gertrude was daily subjected ; especially after the arrival of the expected visitors , a gay and thoughtless party of fashionables , who were taught to look upon her as an unwarrantable intruder , and upon Emily as a troublesome incumbrance . 
Nor , with all the pains taken to prevent it , could Emily be long kept in ignorance of the light estimation in which both herself and Gertrude were regarded . 
Kitty , incensed at the incivility of her aunt and Isabel , and indifferent towards the visitors , to whose folly and levity of character her eyes were now partially opened , hesitated not to express both to Emily and Gertrude her sense of the injuries they sustained , and her own desire to act in their defence . 
A bright wood-fire burned upon the hearth ; a couch was drawn up beside it , on which Emily was sitting ; and Gertrude 's little rocking-chair occupied the opposite corner . 
The fire-light reflected upon the white curtains , the fragrant perfume which proceeded from a basket of flowers upon the table , the perfect neatness and order of the apartment , the placid , peaceful face of Emily , and the radiant expression of Gertrude 's countenance , as she looked up and saw the father and protector of her blind friend looking pleasantly in upon them , proved such a charming contrast to the scenes presented in other parts of the house , that the old gentleman , warmed to more than usual satisfaction with both of the inmates , greeted his surprised daughter with a hearty paternal embrace , and , bestowing upon Gertrude an equally affectionate greeting , exclaimed , as he took the arm-chair which the latter wheeled in front of the fire for his accommodation , `` Now , girls , this looks pleasant and homelike ! 
Gertrude asked if he had been to tea . 
So she went down stairs to see about it . 
`` Do n't tell anybody that I 've got home , Gerty , '' called he , as she left the room ; `` I want to be left in peace to-night , at least . '' 
While Gertrude was gone , Mr. Graham questioned Emily as to her preparations for the European tour ; to his surprise , he learned that she had never received his message communicated in the letter to Mrs. Graham , and knew nothing of his plans . 
After he had enjoyed a comfortable repast , at which Gertrude presided , they both returned to Emily 's room ; and now Mr. Graham 's first inquiry was for the Evening Transcript . 
`` I will go for it , '' said Gertrude , rising . 
He had observed at the tea-table that Gertrude 's ring was disregarded , and wished to know the cause of so strange a piece of neglect . 
Gertrude rang several times , but obtained no answer to the bell . 
At last she heard Bridget 's step in the entry , and , opening the door , said to her , `` Bridget , wo n't you find the Transcript , and bring it to Miss Emily 's room . '' 
`` Gertrude , go yourself , and tell the impertinent girl that Iwant the paper ! 
Gertrude entered the parlor with great composure , and , amid the stares and wonder of the company , spoke in a low tone to Belle , who immediately yielded up the paper , blushing and looking much confused as she did so . 
He saw that Emily was superior to complaint ; he knew that she had never in her life complained ; he observed , too , Gertrude 's devotion to his much-loved child , and it stamped her in his mind as one who had a claim to his regard which should never be disputed . 
He had known Gertrude from a child . 
She was high-spirited , -- he had sometimes thought her wilfal , -- but nevermean or false . 
It was no use to tell him all that nonsense ; -- he was glad , for his part , that it was all off between Kitty and Bruce ; for Ben was an idle fellow , and would never make a good husband ; and , as to Kitty , he thought her much improved of late , and if it were owing to Gertrude 's influence , the more they saw of each other the better . 
`` It is no use to contest the point ; Mr. Graham is firm as a rock , and as sure as wego to Europe , Emily and Gertrude will go too . '' 
Emily 's seruples with regard to mentioning to her father the little prospect of pleasure the tour was likely to afford her all vanished when she found that Gertrude , whose interest she ever had at heart , would be likely to prove a still greater sufferer from the society to which she would be subjected . 
Blind as she was , Emily understood and perceived almost everything that was passing around her . 
She more than suspected the exact state of matters betwixt Mr. Bruce and Gertrude , though the latter had never spoken to her on the subject . 
She imagined the manner in which Kitty was involved in the affair -LRB- no very difficult thing to be conceived by one who enjoyed the confidences which the simple-hearted girl unconsciously , but continually , made during her late intercourse with her -RRB- . 
As Mrs. Graham 's and Isabel 's abuse of power became more open and decided , Mrs. Ellis and Mrs. Prime both considered the embargo upon free speech in Miss Graham 's presence wholly removed ; and any pain which the knowledge of their neglect might have caused her was more than compensated to Emily by the proofs it had called forth of devoted attachment and willing service on the part of her adopted child , as she loved to consider Gertrude . 
Calmly , and without hesitation , as without excitement , did she resolve to adopt a course which should at once free Gertrude from her self-sacrificing service . 
That she encountered much opposition from her father may well be imagined ; but he knew too well the impossibility of any pleasure to be derived to herself from a tour in which mental pain was added to outward deprivation , to persist in urging her to accompany the party ; and , concluding at last that it was , after all , the only way to reconcile opposing interests , and that Emily 's plan was , perhaps , the best that could be adopted under the circumstances , decided to resign himself to the long separation from his daughter , and permit her to be happy in her own way . 
He had seen , during the previous winter at the south , how entirely Emily 's infirmity unfitted her for travelling , especially when deprived of Gertrude 's attendant eyes ; he now realized how totally contrary to her tastes and habits were the tastes and habits of his new wife and her nieces ; and , unwilling to be convinced of the folly of his sudden choice , and the probable chance of unhappiness arising from it , he appreciated the wisdom of Emily 's proposal , and felt a sense of relief in the adoption of a course which would satisfy all parties . 
Mrs. Warren ` spleasant boarding-house was the place chosen by Emily for her own and Gertrude 's winter home ; and one month from the time of Mr. Graham 's return from New York his country-house was closed , he , with his wife , Isabel and Kitty , were on their way to Havre ; Mrs. Ellis gone to enjoy a little rest from care with some cousins at the eastward ; and Mrs. Prime established as cook in Mrs. Warren 's household , where all the morning she grumbled at the increase of duty she was here called upon to perform , and all the evening blessed her stars that she was still under the same roof with her dear young ladies . 
Although ample arrangements were made by Mr. Graham , and all-sufficient means provided for the support of both Emily and Gertrude , the latter was anxious to be once more usefully employed , and , therefore , resumed a portion of her school duties at Mr. W. 's . 
Much as Emily loved Gertrude 's constant presence , she gladly resigned her for a few hours every day , rejoiced in the spirit which prompted her exertions , and rewarded her with her encouragement and praise . 
As they stood before the works of a master 's hand , whether in the sculptured marble or the painted canvas , and Emily listened while Gertrude , with glowing eyes and a face radiant with enthusiasm , described with minuteness and accuracy the subject of the pieces , the manner in which the artist had expressed in his work the original conception of his mind , -- the attitudes of figures , the expression of faces , the coloring of landscapes , and the effect produced upon her mind and heart by the thoughts which the work conveyed , -- such was the eloquence of the one , and the sympathizing attention of the other , that , as they stood there in striking contrast , forgetful of all around , they were themselves a study , if not for the artist , for the observer of human nature , as manifested in novel forms and free from affectation and worldliness . 
Then , too , as , in their daily walks , or gazing upon the glories of a brilliant winter 's night , Gertrude , enraptured at the work of the great Master of the universe , poured out without reserve her soul 's deep and earnest admiration , dilated upon the gorgeousness of a clear sunset , or in the sweet hour of twilight sat watching the coming on of beautiful night , and lighting of Heaven 's lamps , then would Emily , from the secret fountains of her largelyillumined nature , speak out such truths of the inner life as made it seem that she alone were blessed with the true light , and all the seeing world sat in comparative darkness . 
Gertrude often recurred to it , in her after life , as the time when she and Emily lived in a beautiful world of their own . 
Added to her anxiety about Emily , Gertrude began to feel much troubled at Willie Sullivan 's long silence ; no word from him for two or three months . 
Willie could not have forgotten or meant to neglect her . 
She tried , however , not to feel disturbed about it , and gave all her care to Emily , who now began indeed to require it . 
The good doctor came frequently to see his favorite patient , but , finding on every visit that she seemed worse instead of better , he at last ordered her back to the city , declaring that Mrs. Jerry 's front chamber was as cool and comfortable as the little stived-up apartments of the crowded boarding-house at Nahant , and there he should insist upon both her and Gertrude 's taking up their quarters , at least for a week or two ; at the end of which time , if Emily had not found her health , he hoped to have leisure to start off with them in search of it . 
Gertrude followed him . 
`` The babies do n't usually cry as much as they have to-day , '' said Gertrude , smiling ; `` and as to the ocean , Emily loves dearly to hear the waves rolling in . 
Emily was decidedly better ; so much so as to view with pleasure the prospect of visiting West Point , Catskill and Saratoga , even on her own account ; and when she reflected upon the probable enjoyment the trip would afford Gertrude , she felt herself endowed with new strength for the undertaking . 
Gertrude needed change of scene and diversion of mind almost as much as Emily . 
The late improvement in Emily , however , and the alacrity with which she entered into the doctor 's plans , relieved Gertrude of her fears , and , as she moved actively about to complete the few preparations which were needed in her own and her friend 's wardrobe , her step was as light , and her voice as gladsome , as her fingers were basy and skilful . 
New York was their first destination ; but the heat and dust of the city were almost insufferable , and during the one day which they passed there Dr. Jeremy was the only member of the party who ventured out of the hotel , except on occasion of a short expedition which Mrs. Jeremy and Gertrude made in search of dress-caps , the former lady 's stock being still limited to the old yellow and the lilac-and-pink , neither of which , she feared , would be just the thing for Saratoga . 
Dr. Jeremy had been a great favorite among his circle , and almost every narrative of college days -LRB- save those which he himself detailed -RRB- bore reference to some exploit in which he had borne a spirited and honorable part ; and the three female auditors , especially Gertrude , who was enthusiastic in her own appreciation of the doctor 's merits , listened triumphantly to this corroborative testimony of his worth . 
The conversation , however , was not of a character to exclude the ladies from participating in as well as enjoying it ; and Gertrude , who always got on famously with elderly men , and whom the doctor loved dearly to draw out , contributed not a little to the mirth and good-humor of the company by her playful and amusing sallies , and the quickness of repartee with which she responded to the adroit , puzzling , and sometimes ironical questions and jokes of an old-bachelor physician , who , from the first , took a wonderful fancy to her . 
Emily listened with delighted interest to a conversation which had for her such varied charms , and shared with Gertrude the admiration of the doctor 's friends , who were all excited to the warmest sympathy for her misfortune ; while Mrs. Jeremy , proud , smiling and happy , looked so complacent as she sat ensconced in an arm-chair , listening to the encomiums pronounced on her husband 's boyhood , that Gertrude declared , as they separated for the night , that she had almost come to the conclusion that the old yellow was becoming to her , and her new caps altogether superfluous . 
Upon hearing that Dr. Jeremy 's party were going up the Hudson the next morning , Dr. Gryseworth , of Philadelphia , who had many years before been a student of our good doctor 's , expressed his satisfaction in the prospect of meeting them on board the boat , and introducing to Gertrude his two daughters , whom he was about to accompany to Saratoga to meet their grandmother , already established at Congress Hall for the summer . 
It was midnight before Gertrude could compose her mind , and so far quiet her imagination -LRB- which , always lively , was now keenly excited by the next day 's promise of pleasure -RRB- as to think of the necessity of fortifying herself by sleep ; and Emily was finally obliged to check her gayety and loquacity by positively refusing to join in another laugh , or listen to another word that night . 
Gertrude , who slept soundly until wakened by Miss Graham , started up in astonishment on seeing her dressed and standing by the bed-side , -- a most unusual circumstance , and one which reversed the customary order of things , as Gertrude 's morning kiss was wont to be Emily 's first intimation of daylight . 
exclaimed Gertrude . 
Gertrude made haste to repair for lost time , but was not quite dressed when they were summoned to the early breakfast prepared for travellers . 
She had , also , her own and Emily 's trunks to lock , and therefore insisted upon the others preceding her to the breakfast-hall , where she promised to join them in a few moments . 
He had concluded his own repast , but seemed quite at his leisure , and previous to Gertrude 's entrance had won Mrs. Jeremy 's animadversions by a slight propensity he had manifested to make a more critical survey of her party than she found wholly agreeable . 
At this moment Gertrude joined them , and , as she made her morning salutation to the doctor and his wife , and gayly apologized to the former for her tardiness , the fine color which mantled her countenance , and the deep brilliancy of her large dark eyes , drew glances of affectionate admiration from the kind old couple , and were , perhaps , the cause of the stranger 's attention being at once transferred from the lovely and interesting face of Emily to the more youthful , beaming and eloquent features of Gertrude . 
She had hardly taken her seat before she became aware of the notice she was attracting . 
It embarrassed her , and she was glad when , after a moment or two , the gentleman hastily dropped his tea-spoon , rose and left the room . 
As he passed out , she had an opportunity of observing him , which she had not ventured to do while he sat opposite to her . 
said Gertrude . 
`` I think it 's beautiful , '' said Gertrude ; `` but I wish he did n't look so melancholy ; it makes me quite sad to see him . '' 
`` About thirty , '' said Gertrude , and both in the same breath . 
Wife has got him old enough , certainly : I 'm not sure but I should set him as low even as Gertrude 's mark . 
Thankful , therefore , were the ladies of his party when they were safe on board the steamboat ; a circumstance upon which they were still congratulating themselves and each other , while they piled up their heavy shawls and other extra garments in an out-of-the-way corner of the cabin , when the doctor 's voice was again heard calling to them from the other end of the long saloon : `` Come , come , wife , -- Gertrude , -- Emily ! 
you 'll lose the best part of the view ; '' and , coming towards them , he took Gertrude 's arm , and would have hurried her away , leaving Mrs. Jeremy and Emily to follow when they were ready ; but Gertrude would not trust Emily to ascend the cabin-stairs under any guardianship but her own , and Mrs. Jeremy immediately engaged the doctor in an animated discussion as to the advisability of his adopting a straw hat , which the thoughtful wife had brought from home in her hand , and which she was eager to see enjoyed . 
By the time the question was settled , and Emily , at Gertrude 's persuasion , had been induced to exchange her thin mantilla for a light travelling-cloak , which the latter was sure she would require , as there was a fresh breeze stirring on the river , the boat had proceeded some distance ; and when our party finally gained the head of the stairs , and looked about them for seats on deck , not a single vacant bench or accommodation of any sort was to be seen . 
whispered Mrs. Jeremy to Gertrude and Emily . 
But Gertrude was not -- she never forgot it ; and , as she stood with her arm lightly passed around her friend 's waist , to prevent the motion of the boat from throwing her off her balance , it was no wonder they attracted attention ; the one so bright , erect , and strong with youth and health , that she seemed a fit protector for the other , who , in her sweet and gentle helplessness , leaned upon her so trustingly . 
Gertrude recognized his keen , dark eye , even before she perceived his singular hair ; and , as she thanked him , and placed Emily in the offered seat , she felt herself color under his earnest glance . 
The Miss Gryseworths were intelligent-looking girls ; the eldest , lately returned from Europe , where she had been travelling with her father , was considered a very elegant and superior person , and Gertrude was charmed with the lady-like cordiality with which they both made her acquaintance , and still more with the amiable and sympathizing attentions which they paid to Emily . 
By the time that Dr. Jeremy returned with the solitary chair which he had been able to obtain , he found Gertrude and Dr. Gryseworth comfortably accommodated , through the skilful agency of the latter , and was thus enabled to sink at once into his seat , and subside into that state of easy unconcern which admirably became his pleasant , genial temperament . 
Long before the boat reached West Point , where the Jeremys were to go on shore , it was plain to be seen that an excellent understanding subsisted between Gertrude and the Miss Gryseworths , and that time only was wanting to ripen their acquaintance into friendship . 
Gertrude was not one of those young persons who consider every girl of their own age entitled to their immediate intimacy and confidence . 
She had her decided preferences , and , though invariably civil and obliging , was rarely disposed to admit new members into her sacred circle of friends . 
She was quick , however , to recognize a congenial spirit ; and such an one , once found , was claimed by her enthusiastic nature , and engrafted into her affections as something of kindred birth . 
Whom Gertrude once loved , she loved long and well ; faithful was she in her efforts to serve , and prompt in her sympathy to feel for those whose interest and happiness friendship made dear to her as her own . 
Perhaps Ellen Gryseworth divined this trait of her character , and appreciated the value of so steady and truthful a regard ; for she certainly tried hard to win it ; and her father , who had heard Gertrude 's history from Dr. Jeremy , smiled approvingly , as he witnessed the pains which his high-bred and somewhat aristocratic daughter was taking to render herself agreeable to one whose social position had in it nothing to excite her ambition , and whose person , mind and manners , constituted her sole recommendation . 
Gertrude followed the direction of Netta 's eye , and saw the stranger of the morning at some distance from them , slowly pacing up and down , with a serious and abstracted air . 
`` I hope we have not frightened your friend away , '' said Gertrude . 
exclaimed her sister ; `` to try and prejudice Miss Flint against my friend . 
You must n't let her influence you , '' added she , addressing Gertrude . 
`` But you wished me to become acquainted with your oddity , '' remarked Gertrude , addressing herself to Netta . 
Then , turning to Gertrude , she said , `` Netta met Mr. Phillips yesterday for the first time , and has not seemed very favorably impressed . 
Gertrude suspected that the agreeable young lady might herself be the cause of his journey ; but she did not say so , -- her native delicacy and the slight knowledge she had of the parties forbade such an allusion , -- and the conversation soon taking another turn , Mr. Phillips was not again adverted to , though Gertrude observed , just before the boat stopped at West Point , that Dr. Jeremy and Dr. Gryseworth , having left their party , had joined him , and that the trio were engaged in a colloquy which seemed to possess equal interest to them all . 
At West Point Gertrude parted from her new friends , who expressed an earnest hope that they should again meet in Saratoga ; and before the bustle of going on shore had subsided , and she had found on the narrow pier a safe place of refuge for Emily and herself , the boat was far up the river , and the Miss Gryseworths quite undistinguishable among the crowd that swarmed the deck . 
One solitary moonlight evening , however , sufficed to give Gertrude some idea of the beauties of the place . 
She had no opportunity to observe it in detail ; she saw it only as a whole ; but , thus presented to her vision in all the dreamy loveliness of a summer 's night , it left on her fresh and impressive mind a vague sentiment of wonder and delight at the surpassing sweetness of what seemed rather a glimpse of Paradise than an actual show of earth , so harmonious was the scene , so calm , so still , so peaceful . 
`` Emily , darling , '' said she , as they stood together in a rustic arbor , commanding the most striking prospect both of the river and the shore , `` it looks like you ; you ought to live here , and be the priestess of such a temple ! '' 
and , locking her hand in that of Emily , she poured into her attentive ear the holy and elevated sentiments to which the time and the place gave birth . 
Their first day 's experience having convinced them of the danger of delay , they lost no time in securing places on deck , for the boat was as crowded as on the previous morning ; but the shores of West Point were hardly passed from their view before Gertrude 's watchful eye detected in Emily 's countenance the well-known signs of weariness and debility . 
Emily , however , would not listen to the proposal ; would not think of depriving Gertrude of the rare pleasure she knew she must be experiencing . 
`` The prospect is all lost upon me now , Emily , '' said Gertrude . 
`` Then , if you will promise to stay here , Gertrude , '' said Emily , `` I will go with Mrs. Jeremy . '' 
Gertrude assented to the plan ; but insisted upon first accompanying them , to find a vacant berth for Emily , and see her under cir cumstances which would promise repose . 
Emily was really too weak to endure the noise and confusion on deck , and , after she had lain down in the quiet and nearly deserted saloon , Gertrude stood smoothing back her hair , and watching her pale countenance , until she was accused of violating the conditions of their agreement , and was at last driven away by the lively and good-natured doctor 's lady , who declared herself perfectly well able to take care of Emily . 
Saying which , Mrs. Jeremy untied her bonnetstrings , put her feet up in the opposite chair , clapped her hands at Gertrude , and bade her be gone . 
Gertrude ran off laughing , and a smile was still on her face when she reached the staircase . 
As she came up with her usual quick and light step , a tall figure moved aside to let her pass . 
He bowed , and Gertrude , returning the salutation , passed on to the place she had left , wondering how he came to be again their travelling companion . 
He could not have been on board previously to her going below with Emily ; she was sure she should have seen him ; she should have known him among a thousand . 
Gertrude took it , and thanked him . 
As she unfolded the map , he stationed himself a few steps distant , and leaned over the railing , in an apparently absent state of mind ; nor did he speak to her again for some minutes . 
Then , suddenly turning towards her , he said , `` You like all this very much . '' 
`` Very much , '' said Gertrude . 
He did not seem to question her ; he spoke as if he knew . 
`` It is an old story to you , I suppose , '' said Gertrude . 
Gertrude was disconcerted by his look , and still more by his smile ; it changed his whole face so , -- it made him look so handsome , and yet so melancholy . 
She blushed , and could not reply ; he saved her the trouble . 
You are wrong , however ; I never was here before ; but I am too old a traveller to carry my enthusiasm in my eyes -- as you do , '' added he , after a moment 's pause , during which he looked her full in the face . 
Then , seeming , for the first time , to perceive the embarrassment which his scrutiny of her features occasioned , he turned away , and a shadow passed over his fine countenance , lending it for a moment an expression of mingled bitterness and pathos , which served at once to disarm Gertrude 's confusion at his self-introduction and subsequent remarks , and render her forgetful of everything but the strange interest with which this singular man inspired her . 
Presently , taking a vacant chair next hers , he directed her attention to a beautiful country residence on their right , spoke of its former owner , whom he had met in a foreign land , and related some interesting anecdotes concerning an adventurous journey which they had taken together . 
Gertrude did not see the doctor approach , but looked up at the sound of his voice . 
Conscious of the surprise it must be to him to find her talking so familiarly with a complete stranger , she colored slightly at his abrupt remark ; but , observing that her companion was quite unconcerned , and even received it with a smile , she felt herself rather amused than embarrassed ; for , strangely enough , the latter feeling had almost entirely vanished , and she had come to feel confidence in her fellow-traveller , who rose , shook hands with Dr. Jeremy , to whom he had , the previous day , been introduced , and said , with perfect composure , `` Will you have the kindness , sir , to present me to this young lady ? 
Dr. Jeremy having performed the ceremony of introduction , Mr. Phillips bowed gracefully , and looked at Gertrude in such a benignant , fatherly way that she hesitated not to take his offered hand . 
He detained hers a moment while he said , `` Do not be afraid of me when we meet again ; '' and then walked away , and paced slowly up and down the deck until passengers for Catskill were summoned to dinner , when he , as well as Dr. Jeremy and Gertrude , went below . 
The doctor tried to rally Gertrude a little about her gray-headed beau , declaring that he was yet young and handsome , and that she could have his hair dyed any color she pleased . 
But he could not succeed in annoying her in that way , for her interest in him , which she did not deny , was quite independent of his personal appearance . 
Emily , whose nervous system was somewhat disordered , clung tremblingly to Gertrude ; and Gertrude found herself , she knew not how , leaning on the arm of Mr. Phillips , to whose silent exertions they were both indebted for their safety in disembarking . 
Two stage-coaches were waiting at the wharf to take passengers up the mountain , and before Dr. Jeremy had turned his back upon the river Emily and Gertrude were placed in one of them by Mr. Phillips , who , without asking questions , or even speaking at all , took this office upon himself , and then went to inform the doctor of their whereabouts . 
For the first few miles Gertrude 's whole attention was required to shield Emily and herself from the rays of a burning sun which shone into the coach full upon their faces , and it was a great relief when they at last reached the steep but smooth and beautifully-shaded road which led up the side of the mountain . 
The atmosphere being perfectly clear , the gradually widening prospect was most beautiful , and Gertrude 's delight and rapture were such that the restraint imposed by stage-coach decorum was almost insupportable . 
When , therefore , the ascent became so laborious that the gentlemen were invited to alight , and relieve the weary horses of a part of their burden , Gertrude gladly accepted Dr. Jeremy 's proposal that she should accompany him on a walk of a mile or two . 
Gertrude was an excellent walker , and she and the still active doctor soon left the coaches far behind them . 
They looked around , and saw Mr. Phillips seated upon a moss-grown rock , against which Gertrude was at the moment leaning . 
He rose to his feet , however , immediately upon being perceived , and joined Dr. Jeremy and Gertrude . 
As he spoke , he placed in Gertrude 's hand , without looking at her , or seeming conscious what he was doing , a bouquet of rich laurel-blossoms , which he had probably gathered during his walk . 
She would have thanked him , but his absent manner was such that it afforded her no opportunity , especially as he went on talking with the doctor , as if she had not been present . 
Mr. Phillips and Dr. Jeremy conversed in an animated manner , and Gertrude , content to be a listener , soon perceived that she was not the only person to whom the stranger had power to render himself agreeable . 
Dr. Jeremy engaged him upon a variety of subjects , upon all of which he appeared equally well-informed ; and Gertrude smiled to see her old friend more than once rub his hands together , according to his well-known manner of expressing boundless satisfaction . 
Now , Gertrude thought their new acquaintance must be a botanist by profession , so versed was he in everything relating to that department of science . 
Then , again , she was equally sure that geology must have been with him an absorbing study , so intimate seemed his acquaintance with mother earth ; and both of these impressions were in turn dispelled , when he talked of the ocean like a sailor , of the counting-room like a merchant , of Paris like a man of fashion and the world . 
Dr. Jeremy declared it his belief that Gerty could out-walk them both ; and , thus satisfied , Mr. Phillips resumed the broken thread of their discourse , into which , before long , Gertrude was drawn , almost unawares . 
He no longer seemed in Gertrude 's eyes a stranger ; -- he was a mystery , certainly , but not a forbidding one . 
She longed to know more of him ; to learn the history of a life which many an incident of his own narrating proved to have been made up of strange and mingled experience ; especially did her sympathetic nature desire to fathom the cause of that deep-seated melancholy which shadowed and darkened his noble countenance , and made his very smile a sorrowful thing . 
Dr. Jeremy , who , in a degree , shared her curiosity , asked a few leading questions , in hopes to obtain some clue to his new friend 's personal history ; but in vain . 
There had been a short silence , when the doctor , looking at Gertrude , remarked , `` There will be no church for us to-morrow , Gerty . '' 
exclaimed Gertrude , gazing about her with a look of reverence ; `` how canyou say so ? '' 
Mr. Phillips bestowed upon her a smile of interest and inquiry , and said , in a peculiar tone , `` There is no Sunday here , Miss Flint ; it does n't come up so high . '' 
He spoke lightly , -- too lightly , Gertrude thought , -- and she replied with some seriousness , and much sweetness , `` I have often rejoiced that the Sabbath had been sent downinto the lowerearth ; the higher we go , the nearer we come , I trust , to the eternal Sabbath . '' 
There was an expression about his mouth which Gertrude did not exactly like ; but she could not find it in her heart to reproach him for the slight sneer which his manner , rather than his look , implied , for , as he gazed a moment or two into vacancy , there was in his wild and absent countenance such a look of sorrow , that she could only pity and wonder . 
The coaches now came up , and , as he placed her in her former seat , he resumed his wonted serene and kindly expression , and she felt convinced that it was only doing justice to his frank and open face to believe that nothing was hid behind it that would not do honor to the man . 
As Gertrude stood at the window of the chamber allotted to herself and Emily , and heard the loud murmurs of some of her fellow-travellers who were denied any tolerable accommodation , she could not but be astonished at Dr. Jeremy 's unusual good fortune in being treated with such marked partiality . 
Emily , being greatly fatigued with the toilsome journey , had supper brought to her own room , and Gertrude partaking of it with her , neither of them sought other society that night , but at an early hour betook themselves to rest . 
The last thing that Gertrude heard , before falling asleep , was the voice of Dr. Jeremy , saying , as he passed their door , `` Take care , Gerty , and be up in time to see the sun rise . '' 
She was not up in time , however , nor was the doctor himself ; neither of them had calculated upon the sun 's being such an early riser ; and though Gertrude , mindful of the caution , sprung up almost before her eyes were open , a flood of daylight was pouring in at the window , and a scene met her gaze which at once put to flight every regret at having overslept herself , since nothing , she thought , could be more solemnly glorious than that which now lay outspread before her . 
Gertrude gave one long look , then hastened to dress herself and go out upon the platform . 
The house was perfectly still ; no one seemed yet to be stirring , and she stood for some time entranced , almost breathless , with awe and admiration . 
At length she heard footsteps , and , looking up , saw Dr. and Mrs. Jeremy approaching ; the former , as usual , full of life , and dragging forward his reluctant , sleepy partner , whose countenance proclaimed how unwillingly she had foregone her morning nap . 
The doctor rubbed his hands as they joined Gertrude . 
Gertrude turned upon him her beaming eyes , but did not speak . 
Satisfied , however , with the expression of her face , which was sufficient , without words , to indicate her appreciation of the scene , the doctor stepped to the edge of the flat rock upon which they stood , placed his hands beneath his coat-tails , and indulged in a soliloquy , made up of short exclamations and interjectional phrases , expressive of his approbation , still further confirmed and emphasized by a quick , regular nodding of his head . 
The same scene was reënacted , and finally , after the poor woman 's fears had been excited and relieved half a dozen times in succession , she grew so disturbed , that , looking most imploringly at Gertrude , she begged her to get the doctor away from that dangerous place , for the poor man was so venturesome he would surely be killed . 
`` Suppose we explore that little path at the right of the house , '' suggested Gertrude ; `` it looks attractive . '' 
Gertrude led the way , Mrs. Jeremy followed , and the doctor brought up the rear , -- all walking in single file , for the path was a mere foot-track . 
Encouraged and assisted , however , by her husband and Gertrude , she was induced to make a further attempt ; and they had gone on some distance , when Gertrude , who happened for a moment to be some steps in advance , heard Mrs. Jeremy give a slight seream . 
asked Gertrude . 
Finding her determined , the doctor hastened to accompany her , calling to Gertrude as he went , however , assuring her there was no danger , and begging her to keep on and wait for him at the top of the hill , where he would join her after he had left his wife in safety at the hotel . 
Gertrude , therefore , went on alone . 
For the first few rods she looked carefully about her , and thought of rattlesnakes ; but the path was so well worn that she felt sure it must be often trod and was probably safe , and the beauty of the place soon engrossed all her attention . 
After a few moments spent in active climbing , she reached the highest point of ground , and found herself once more on an elevated woody platform , from which she could look forth as before upon the unbroken sea of clouds . 
She seated herself at the root of an immense pine-tree , removed her bonnet , for she was warm from recent exercise , and , as she inhaled the refreshing mountain breeze , gave herself up to the train of reflection which she had been indulging when disturbed by Dr. and Mrs. Jeremy . 
Gertrude stood still and looked at him . 
As she did so , his countenance suddently changed ; the peaceful expression gave place to the same unhappy look which had at first excited her sympathy . 
Gertrude was deeply touched . 
She forgot that he was a stranger ; she saw only a sufferer . 
An insect lit upon his fair , open forehead ; she leaned over him , brushed away the greedy creature , and , as she did so , one of the many tears that filled her eyes fell upon his cheek . 
`` If I had not had sorrows already , '' said Gertrude , `` I should not know how to feel for others ; if I had not often wept for myself , I should not weep now for you . '' 
`` I neverwas a child , '' said Gertrude . 
soliloquized her companion . 
Gertrude hesitated . 
Gertrude smiled inwardly at the idea of his being such an old man , and calling her a child ; but , old or young , she had it not in her heart to fear him , or refuse his request . 
She sat down , and he seated himself beside her , but did not speak of the prospect , or of anything , for a moment or two ; then turning to her abruptly , he said , `` So you never were unhappy in your life ? '' 
exclaimed Gertrude . 
said Gertrude , with a voice full of feeling . 
`` There are no such , '' said Gertrude , with decision . 
`` But the light shines brightly above the clouds , '' said Gertrude . 
`` It is sometimes a weary and toilsome road that leads to the mountain-top ; but the pilgrim is well repaid for the trouble which brings him above the clouds , '' replied Gertrude , with enthusiasm . 
`` Few ever find the road that leads so high , '' responded her melancholy companion ; `` and those who do can not live long in so elevated an atmosphere . 
said she , her eyes glowing with the fervor with which she spoke , -- `` even now the heaviest clouds are parting ; the sun will soon light up the valley ! '' 
She pointed , as she spoke , to a wide fissure which was gradually disclosing itself , as the hitherto solid mass of clouds separated on either side , and then turned to the stranger to see if he observed the change ; but , with the same smile upon his unmoved countenance , he was watching , not the display of nature in the distance , but that close at his side . 
He was gazing with intense interest upon the young and ardent worshipper of the beautiful and the true ; and , in studying her features and observing the play of her countenance , he seemed so wholly absorbed , that Gertrude -- believing he was not listening to her words , but had fallen into one of his absent moods -- ceased speaking , rather abruptly , and was turning away , when he said , `` Go on , happy child ! 
asked Gertrude , with straight-forward simplicity . 
`` Idid once , '' said Gertrude , musingly . 
exclaimed Gertrude , the tears rushing to her eyes . 
exclaimed Gertrude ; `` my earliest recollections are only of want , suffering , and much unkindness . '' 
`` No , indeed , I did not say so , -- I do not mean so , '' said Gertrude . 
Gertrude had risen , for she saw Dr. Jeremy approaching , and stood with one hand resting upon a solid mass of stone , under whose proteeting shadow she had been seated . 
She smiled a thoughtful smile at Mr. Phillips ' question ; and after casting her eyes a moment into the deep valley beneath her , turned them upon him with a look of holy faith , and said , in a low but fervent tone , `` I see the gulf yawning beneath me , but I lean upon the Rock of ages . '' 
Gertrude had spoken truly when she said that more than one anxiety and dread oppressed her ; for , mingled with a daily increasing fear lest the time was fast approaching when Emily would be taken from her , she had of late been harassed and grieved by the thought that Willie Sullivan , towards whom her heart yearned with more than a sister 's love , was fast forgetting the friend of his childhood , or , at least , ceasing to regard her with the love and tenderness of former years . 
It was now some months since she had received a letter from India ; the last was short , and written in a haste which Willie apologized for on the score of business cares and duties , and Gertrude was compelled unwillingly to admit the chilling presentiment that now that his mother and grandfather were no more the ties which bound the exile to his native home were sensibly weakened . 
Nothing would have induced her to hint , even to Emily , a suspicion of neglect on Willie 's part ; nothing would have shocked her more than hearing such neglect imputed to him by another ; but still , in the depths of her own heart , she sometimes mused with wonder upon his long silence , and the strange diminution of intercourse between herself and him . 
During several weeks in which she had received no tidings she had still continued to write as usual , and felt sure that such reminders must have reached him by every mail . 
What , then , but illness or indifference could excuse his never replying to her faithfully despatched missives ? 
She often tried to banish from her mind any self-questioning upon a subject so involved in uncertainty ; but at times a sadness came over her which could only be dispersed by turning her thoughts upward with that trusting faith and hope which had so often sustained her drooping spirits , and it was from one of these soaring reveries that she had turned with pitying looks and words to the fellow-sufferer whose moans had escaped him even in his dreams . 
Dr. Jeremy 's approach was the signal for hearty congratulations and good-mornings between himself and Mr. Phillips ; the doctor began to converse in his animated manner , spoke with hearty delight of the beauty and peacefulness of that bright Sabbath morning in the mountains ; and Mr. Phillips , compelled to exert himself , and conceal , if he could not dispel , the gloom which weighed upon his mind , talked with an ease , and even playfulness , which astonished Gertrude , who walked back to the house silently wondering at this strange and inconsistent man . 
She did not see him at breakfast , and at dinner he took a seat at some distance from Dr. Jeremy 's party , and merely acknowledged their acquaintance by a graceful salutation to Gertrude as she left the dininghall . 
Still later in the day , he suddenly made his appearance upon the broad piazza where Emily and Gertrude were seated , one pair of eyes serving , as usual , to paint pictures for the minds of both . 
Gertrude hoped Mr. Phillips would join them ; she knew that Emily would be charmed with his rich and varied conversation , and felt an instinctive hope that the sweet tones of the comfort-carrying voice which so many loved and blessed would speak to his heart a lesson of peace . 
But she hoped in vain ; he started on seeing them , walked hastily away , and Gertrude soon after espied him toiling up the same steep path which had attracted them both in the morning , -- nor did he make his appearance at the hotel again that night . 
Gertrude was never weary of the glorious prospect , upon which she gazed with ever increasing delight ; and an excursion which she and the doctor made on foot to the cleft in the heart of the mountain , where a narrow stream leaps a distance of two hundred feet into the valley below , furnished the theme for many a descriptive revery , of which Emily reaped a part of the enjoyment . 
Mrs. Jeremy , Emily and Gertrude , were consequently assisted into a small omnibus , and closely packed away among half a dozen ladies and children , who , tired , dusty and anxious , were schooling themselves to patience , or encouraging themselves with hope . 
said Mrs. Jeremy , as she glanced round the comfortable room allotted to herself , and then , crossing the narrow entry , took a similar survey of Emily 's and Gertrude 's apartment . 
It was nearly tea-time on the day of their arrival , and Emily and Gertrude had just completed their toilet , when there was a light rap upon their door . 
Gertrude hastened to open it , and to admit Ellen Gryseworth , who , while she saluted her with southern warmth of manner , hesitated at the threshold , saying , `` I am afraid you will think me an intruder , but Netta told me you had arrived , and hearing accidentally from the chambermaid that you had the next room to mine , I could not forbear stopping a moment as I passed to tell you how very glad I am to see you again . '' 
Gertrude and Emily expressed their pleasure at the meeting , thanked her for her want of ceremony , and urged her to come in and remain with them until the gong sounded for tea . 
She availed herself of the invitation , and taking a seat upon the nearest trunk , proceeded to inquire concerning their travels and Emily 's health since they parted at West Point . 
Among other adventures , Gertrude mentioned their having again encountered Mr. Phillips . 
`` I am sorry to say , I did not , '' replied Emily ; then , looking smilingly at Gertrude , she added , `` Gerty was so anxious for an opportunity to introduce me , that I was quite grieved for her disappointment . '' 
said Miss Gryseworth , addressing herself to Gertrude , and speaking with great earnestness . 
`` He interested me much , '' replied Gertrude . 
exclaimed Gertrude , energetically . 
`` I hope such instances of neglect are not very common , '' said Gertrude . 
I am provoked , '' added she , as she kissed Emily 's hand , and shook Gertrude 's with a freedom and vivacity which seemed to spring partly from girlish hoydenism and partly from high-bred independence of manner , `` to think that while I have been watching about the drawing-room doors for this half-hour , so as to see you the first minute you came in , Ellen has been sitting here on a trunk , as sociable as all the world , enjoying your society , and telling you every bit of the news . '' 
`` Not a word about them , '' said Gertrude . 
exclaimed Netta , with an arch look , which called up her sister 's blushes . 
`` No , she did not tell me that , '' said Gertrude . 
inquired Gertrude . 
It was a wholly new experience to Gertrude ; and although , in the comparative retirement and privacy of Congress Hall , she saw only the reflection of Saratoga gayety , and heard only the echo of its distant hum , there was enough of novelty and excitement to entertan , amuse and surprise one who was a complete novice in the ways of fashionable life . 
In the circle of high-bred , polished , literary and talented persons whom Madam Gryseworth drew about her , and into which Dr. Jeremy 's party were at once admitted as honored members , Gertrude found much that was congenial to her cultivated and superior taste , and she herself soon came to be appreciated and admired as she deserved . 
One evening , when the Jeremys had now been a week at Saratoga , as Emily and Gertrude were leaving the tea-table , they were joined by Netta Gryseworth , who , linking her arm in Gertrude 's , exclaimed , in her usual gay manner , `` Gertrude , I shall quarrel with you soor . 
said Gertrude , `` on what ground ? '' 
Gertrude blushed slightly . 
`` I hope Gertrude is n't interfering with your happiness in any way , '' said Emily , smiling . 
`` She is , though , '' replied Netta , `` my happiness , my pride , my comfort . 
She is undermining them all ; she would not dare to conduct so , Miss Graham , if you could see her behavior . '' 
A few days ago , I was a great favorite with Peter , and all my pet dishes were sure to be placed directly in front of me ; but now the tune is changed , and , this very evening , I saw him pass Gertrude the blackberries , which the creature knows I delight in , while he pushed a dish of blues towards me in a contemptuous manner , which seemed to imply , ` Blueberries are good enough for you , miss ! ' '' 
`` I have noticed that the waiters are very attentive to us , '' said Emily ; `` do you suppose Gertrude has been secretly bribing them ? '' 
`` She says not , '' replied Netta . 
`` Did n't you tell me so yesterday , Gertrude , when I was drawing a similar comparison between their devotion to you and to our party ? 
`` Certainly , '' answered Gertrude ; `` his attentions are all voluntary ; but I attribute them entirely to Emily 's influence , and his desire to serve her . '' 
said Netta , emphasizing her remark by a mysterious little shake of the head ; -- `` it 's sorcery , I 'm sure of it ; you 've been practising the black art , Gertrude , and I 'll warn Peter this very day . '' 
As she spoke , they reached a corner of the drawing-room where the old ladies Gryseworth and Jeremy were sitting upon a sofa , engaged in earnest conversation , while Ellen , who had just returned from a drive with her father , stood talking with him and a Mr. Petrancourt , who had that evening arrived from New York . 
The ladies on the sofa made room for Emily , and Netta and Gertrude seated themselves near by . 
Occasionally Madam Gryseworth cast glances of annoyance at a group of children on the other side of the room , who by their noisy shouts continually interrupted her remarks , and prevented her understanding those of her neighbor . 
Gertrude 's attention soon became attracted by them also to such a degree that she did not hear more than half of the lively and gay sallies of wit and nonsense which Netta continued to pour forth . 
`` Do go and play with those children , Gertrude , '' said Netta , at last ; `` I know you 're longing to . '' 
exclaimed Gertrude ; an apparently ill-natured remark , which we are bound to explain . 
Her clothes , though of rich material , were most untidily arranged , and appeared somewhat soiled by travelling . 
Her little black silk frock -LRB- for the child was clad in mourning -RRB- seemed to be quite outgrown , being much shorter than some of her other garments , and her whole appearance denoted great negligence on the part of her parents or guardians . 
When Madam Gryseworth 's evident disturbance first led Gertrude to notice the youthful group , this little girl was standing in their midst , looking wildly about her , as if for a chance to escape ; but this the children prevented , and continued to ply her with questions , each of which called forth a derisive shout from all but the poor little object of attack , who , on her part , looked ready to burst into tears . 
Whether the scene reminded Gertrude of some of her own experiences , or merely touched the chord of a universal spirit of sympathy for the injured , she could not keep her eyes from the little party ; and , just as Netta was fairly launched upon one of her favorite topics , -- namely , Mr. Phillips and his unaccountable conduct , -- she sprung from her seat , exclaiming , `` They sha n't torment that child so ! '' 
Netta burst into a hearty laugh at Gertrude 's excited and enthusiastic manner of starting on her benevolent errand ; and this , together with the unusual circumstance of her crossing the large and crowded room hastily and alone , drew the inquiries of all the circle whom she had left , and during her absence she unconsciously became the subject of discussion and remark . 
`` Where has Gertrude gone ? '' 
`` Is she the one who has been making all this noise ? '' 
`` No , indeed , but I believe she is the cause of it . '' 
`` It is n't every girl , '' remarked Ellen , `` who could cross a great room like this so gracefully as Gertrude can . '' 
`` She has a remarkably good figure , '' said Madam Gryseworth , `` and knows how to walk ; a very rare accomplishment , now-a-days . '' 
`` She is a very well-formed girl , '' remarked Dr. Gryseworth , who had observed Gertrude attentively as she crossed the room . 
and now , hearing her commented upon , turned to take his part in the criticism ; `` but the true secret of her looking so completely the lady lies in her having uncommon dignity of character , being wholly unconscious of observation and independent of the wish to attract it , and therefore simply acting herself . 
She dresses well , too ; -- Ellen , I wish you would imitate Miss Flint 's style of dress ; nothing could be in better taste . '' 
`` Or a greater saving to your purse , papa , '' whispered Netta , `` Gertrude dresses very simply . '' 
Others , however , were either more careless or more indifferent to her presence ; for Madam Gryseworth began to speak of Gertrude without restraint , and she was at this moment saying , `` One must see her under peculiar circumstances to be struck with her beauty at once ; -- for instance , as I did yesterday , when she had just returned from horseback-riding , and her face was in a glow from exercise and excitement ; or as she looks when animated by her intense interest in some glowing and eloquent speaker , or when her feelings are suddenly touched , and the tears start into her eyes , and her whole soul shines out through them ! '' 
`` So is Gertrude , at such times as those I speak of . 
she is a girl after my own heart . '' 
`` She must be a very agreeable young lady , from your account , '' said Mr. Petrancourt . 
`` We must know her . '' 
`` You will not find her at all the same stamp as most of the agreeable young ladies whom you meet in the gay circles . 
I must tell you what Horace Willard said of her . 
exclaimed the doctor ; `` I did n't know that goodness counted in these places ; but , if goodness is worth speaking of , I should like to tell you a little of what I know of that girl ; '' -- and , without going closely into particulars , he commenced dilating enthusiastically upon Gertrude 's noble and disinterested conduct under trying circumstances , and , warming with his subject , had recounted , in a touching manner , her devotion to one old paralytic , -- to another infirm , imbecile and ill-tempered old man and his slowly-declining daughter , -- and would have proceeded , perhaps , to speak of her recent self-sacrificing labors in Emily 's service ; but Miss Graham touched his arm , spoke in a low voice , and interrupted him . 
Gertrude is a private character , and I have no right to bring her before the public . 
Laterin the evening , when Gertrude , having resigned her little charge to the nurse who came to seek her , had again joined her party , the attention of every one assembled in the drawing-room was attracted by the entrance of a beautiful and showilydressed young lady , attended by two or three gentlemen . 
Unexpected as the meeting was to Gertrude , she at once recognized Isabel Clinton , who , however , passed both her and Emily without observing them , and , there being no vacant chair near at hand , seated herself with Mrs. Petrancourt on a couch a little further up the room , and entered into earnest and familiar conversation ; nor did she change her position or look in the direction of Dr. Jeremy 's party , until just as she was taking her leave . 
She would have passed them then without noticing their presence , but accidentally hearing Dr. Gryseworth address Miss Flint by name , she half turned , caught Gertrude 's eye , spoke a careless `` How do you do , '' with that sort of indifference with which one salutes a very slight acquaintance , cast a look back at Emily , surveyed with an impertinent air of curiosity the rest of the circle to which they belonged , and , without stopping to exchange words or inquiries , walked off whispering to her companions some satirical comments both upon the place and the company . 
`` Who is she ? '' 
Mrs. Petrancourt related what she knew of Miss Clinton ; told how she had travelled with her in Switzerland , and met her afterwards in Paris , where she was universally admired ; then , turning to Gertrude , she remarked , `` You are acquainted with her , I see , Miss Flint . '' 
Gertrude replied that she knew her before she went abroad , but had seen nothing of her since her return . 
She had been conversing with Ellen Gryseworth , but now turned to ask Gertrude if they were speaking of Isabel Clinton . 
Gertrude was silent also ; but she burned inwardly , as she always did , at any slights being offered to the gentle Emily . 
Gertrude and Dr. Jeremy were always among the earliest morning visitors at the spring . 
The doctor enjoyed drinking the water at this hour ; and , as Gertrude was an early riser and fond of walking before breakfast , he made it a point that she should accompany him , partake of the beverage of which he was himself so found , and afterwards join him in brisk pedestrian exercise until near the hour of the morning meal , which was as early as Mrs. Jeremy or Emily cared to have their slumbers disturbed . 
Gertrude had gratified the doctor , and made a martyr of herself , by imbibing a tumbler-full of a water which she found very unpalatable ; and he having quaffed his seventh glass , they had both proceeded some distance on one more walk around the grounds , when he suddenly missed his cane , and , believing that he had left it at the spring , declared his intention to return and look for it . 
Gertrude would have gone back also , but , as there might be some difficulty and delay in recovering it , he insisted upon her continuing her walk in the direction of the circular railway , promising to come round the other way and meet her . 
She had proceeded some little distance , and was walking thoughtfully along , when , at an abrupt winding in the path , she observed a couple approaching her , -- a young lady leaning on the arm of a gentleman . 
A straw hat partly concealed the face of the latter , but in the former she at once recognized Belle Clinton . 
It was equally evident , too , that Belle saw Gertrude , and knew her , but did not mean to acknowledge her acquaintance ; for , after the first glance , she kept her eyes obstinately fixed either upon her companion or the ground . 
This conduct did not disturb Gertrude in the least ; Belle could not feel more indifferent about the acquaintance than she did ; but , being thus saved the necessity of awaiting and returning any salutation from that quarter , she naturally bestowed her passing glance upon the gentleman who accompanied Miss Clinton . 
They have gone some steps , -- but Gertrude stands fixed to the spot . 
She feels a great throbbing at her heart . 
She knows that look , that voice , as well as if she had seen and heard them yesterday . 
Could Gertrude forget Willie Sullivan ? 
But he has forgotten her . 
Shall she run after him , and stop him , and catch both his hands in hers , and compel him to see , and know , and speak to her ? 
She started one step forward in the direction he had taken , then suddenly paused and hesitated . 
A crowd of emotions choked , blinded , suffocated her , and while she wrestled with them and they with her , he turned the corner and passed out of sight . 
She covered her face with her hands -LRB- always her first impulse in moments of distress -RRB- , and leaned against a tree . 
There was no doubt of that ; but not her Willie , -- the boyWillie . 
The broad , open forehead , the lines of mild but firm decision about the mouth , the frank , fearless manner , were as marked as ever , and were alone sufficient to betray his identity to one upon whose memory these , and all his other characteristics , were indelibly stamped ; and Gertrude needed not the sound of his well-known voice , though that , too , at the same moment fell upon her ear , to proclaim at once to her beating heart that Willie Sullivan had met her face to face , had passed on , and that she was left alone , unrecognized , unknown , and , to all appearance , unthought of and uncared for ! 
For a time , this bitter thought , `` He does not know me , '' was alone present to her mind ; it filled and engrossed her entire imagination , and sent a thrill of surprise and agony through her whole frame . 
She did not stop to reflect upon the fact that she was but a child when she parted from him , and that the change in her appearance must be immense . 
Far less did it occur to her to congratulate herself upon a transformation every shade of which had been to her a proportionate improvement and advantage . 
The one painful idea , that she was forgotten and lost , as it were , to the dear friend of her childhood , obliterated every other recollection . 
Gertrude was a woman now , with all a woman 's pride ; and delicacy and maiden modesty deterred her from the course which impulse and old affection prompted . 
Other feelings , too , soon crowded into her mind , in confused and mingled array . 
What Willie would say when he first saw her , what he would do to express his delight , the questions he would ask , the exclamations he would utter and the corresponding replies on her part , the happiness of them both -LRB- lately sobered and subdued to her imagination by the thought of the dear departed ones they had both loved so well -RRB- , -- all this had been rehearsed by Gertrude again and again , in every new instance taking some new form , or varied by some additional circumstance . 
But , among all her visions , there had been none which in the least approached the reality of this painful experience that had suddenly plunged her into disappointment and sorrow . 
Her darkest dreams had never pictured a meeting so chilling ; her most fearful forebodings -LRB- and she had of late had many -RRB- had never prefigured anything so heart-rending as this seemingly total annihilation of all the sweet and cherished relations that had subsisted between herself and the long-absent and exiled wanderer . 
No wonder , then , that she forgot the place , the time , everything but her own overwhelming grief ; and that , as she stood leaning against the old tree , her chest heaved with sobs too deep for utterance , and great tears trickled from her eyes , and between the little taper fingers that vainly sought to hide her disturbed countenance . 
She was startled from her position by the sound of an approaching footstep . 
Hastily starting forward , without looking in the direction from which it came , and throwing a lace veil -LRB- which , as the day was warm , was the only protection she wore upon her head -RRB- in such a manner as to hide her face , she wiped away her fast-flowing tears , and hastened on , to avoid being overtaken and observed by any of the numerous strangers who frequented the grounds at this hour . 
Half-blinded , however , by the thick folds of the veil , and her sight rendered still dimmer by the tears which continued to fill her eyes , she was scarcely conscious of the unsteady course she was pursuing , when suddenly a loud , whizzing noise , close to her ears , frightened and confused her so that she knew not which way to turn ; nor had she time to take a single step ; for , at the same instant , an arm was suddenly flung round her waist , she was focibly lifted from her feet with as much ease and lightness as if she had been a little child , and , before she was conscious what was taking place , found herself detained and supported by the same strong arm , while just in front of her a little hand-car containing two persons was whirling by at full speed . 
One step more , and she would have reached the track of the miniature railway , and been exposed to serious , perhaps fatal injury , from the rapidly-moving vehicle . 
Flinging back her veil , she at once perceived her fortunate escape ; and , being at the same moment released from the firm grasp of her rescuer , she turned upon him a half-confused , half-grateful face , whose disturbed expression was much enhanced by her previous excitement and tears . 
Mr. Phillips -- for it was he -- looked upon her in the most tender and pitying manner . 
said he , soothingly , at the same time drawing her arm through his , `` you were very much frightened . 
Here , sit down upon this bench ; '' and he would have drawn her towards a seat , but she shook her head , and signified by a movement her wish to proceed towards the hotel . 
She could not speak ; the kindness of his look and voice only served to increase her trouble , and rob her of the power to articulate . 
So he walked on in perfect silence , supporting her , however , with the greatest care , and bestowing upon her many an anxious glance . 
At last , making a great effort to recover her calmness , she partially succeeded , -- so much so that he ventured to speak again , and asked , `` Did Ifrighten you ? '' 
replied she , in a low , and somewhat unsteady voice . 
said Gertrude , in an absent way . 
Mr. Phillips saw that she was bewildered , obtuse he knew she never was ; for , within the last few days , his acquaintance with her had grown and ripened by frequent intercourse . 
Just before leaving her , however , he said , in a tone of the deepest interest , as he held her hand for a moment at parting , `` Can I do anything for you ? 
Gertrude looked up at him . 
She saw at once , from his countenance , that he understood and realized that she was unhappy , not nervous . 
Her eyes thanked him as they again glistened behind a shower of tears . 
`` No , no , '' gasped she , `` but you are very good ; '' and she hastened into the house , leaving him standing for more than a minute in the spot where she had left him , gazing at the door by which she had disappeared , as if she were still in sight , and he were watching her . 
Gertrude 's first thought , after parting from Mr. Phillips and gaining the shelter of the hotel , was , how she might best conceal from all her friends , and especially from Miss Graham , any knowledge of the load of grief she was sustaining . 
The chief knowledge that Emily had of Willie was derived from Gertrude , and with a mingled feeling of tenderness for him and pride on her own account did the latter dread to disclose the fact that he had returned after so many years of absence , that she had met him in the public walks of Saratoga , and that he had passed her carelessly by . 
The possibility naturally presented itself to her mind that he had indeed visited Boston , sought her , and , learning where she might be found , had come hither purposely to see her ; nor , on calm reflection , did this supposition seem contradicted by his failing , on a mere casual glance , to recognize her ; for she could not be ignorant or insensible of the vast change which had taken place both in her face and figure . 
Though the leisurely manner in which he was escorting Miss Clinton on her morning walk seemed to contradict the supposition , Gertrude , clinging fondly to this frail hope , and believing that the rest of the day would not pass without his presenting himself at the hotel , determined to concentrate all her energies in the effort to maintain her usual composure , at least until her fears should become certainties . 
It was very hard for her to appear as usual , and clude the vigilance of the affectionate and careful Emily , who , always deeply conscious of her responsibility towards her young charge , and fearful lest , owing to her blindness , she might often be an insufficient protection to one of so ardent and excitable a temperament , was keenly alive to every sensation and emotion experienced by Gertrude , especially to any fluctuation in her usually cheerful spirits . 
And Gertrude 's spirits , even when she had armed herself with confidence and hope by the encouraging thought that Willie would yet prove faithful to his old friendship , could not but be sorely depressed by the consciousness now forced upon her that he could no longer be to her as he had once been ; that they could never meet on the same footing on which they had parted ; that he was a man of the world now , with new relations , new cares , new interests ; and that she had been deceiving herself , and laboring under a fond delusion , in cherishing the belief that in their case the laws of nature would be suspended , and time have no power to alter or modify the nature and extent of their mutual affection . 
There was something in the very circumstance of her first meeting him in company with Isabel Clinton which tended to impress her with this conviction . 
True , she was the daughter of Willie 's early and generous employer , now the senior partner in the mercantile house to which he belonged , and would not only be likely to form his acquaintance , but would have an undoubted claim to every polite attention he might have it in his power to pay her ; but still Gertrude could not but feel a greater sense of estrangement , a chilling presentiment of sorrow , from seeing him thus familiarly associated with one who had invariably treated her with scorn and incivility . 
There was but one thing for her to do , however ; to call up all her self-command , bring pride even to her aid , and endeavor , in any event , to behave with serenity and composure . 
The very fear that one keen and searching pair of eyes had already penetrated her secret so far as to discover that she was afflicted in some form or other served to put her still more upon her guard ; and she therefore compelled herself to enter the room where Emily was awaiting her , bid her a cheerful `` good-morning , '' and assist , as usual , in the completion of her toilet . 
The truth was that when Gertrude heard Mr. Phillips approaching in the direction she should have taken , she , in her eagerness to avoid meeting any one , took the contrary path to that she had been pursuing , and , after he joined her , retraced her steps to the hotel in the same way she had come , consequently eluding the search of the doctor . 
But , before she could plead any excuse , Netta Gryseworth came running up , evidently full of pleasantry and fun , and , leaning over Gertrude 's shoulder , said , in a whisper loud enough to be heard by all the little circle , who were being delayed on their way to breakfast by the doctor 's demand for an explanation , `` Gertrude , my dear , such affecting partings ought to be private ; I wonder you allow them to take place directly at the door-step . '' 
This remark did not lessen Gertrude 's discomfiture , which became extreme on Dr. Jeremy 's catching Netta by the arm , as she was about to run off , and insisting upon knowing her meaning , declaring that he already had suspicions of Gertrude , and wanted to know who she had been walking with . 
`` O , a certain tall young beau of hers , who stood gazing after her when she left him , until I began to fear the cruel creature had turned him into stone . 
What did you do to the poor man , Gertrude ? '' 
`` Nothing , '' replied Gertrude . 
Gertrude answered seriously ; she could have laughed and joked with Netta at any other time , but now her heart was too heavy . 
The doctor did not perceive her growing agitation , however , and pushed the matter still further . 
Poor Gertrude , blushing scarlet and pitiably distressed , tried to offer some explanation , and stammered out , with a faltering voice , that she did not notice -- she did n't remember . 
Ellen Gryseworth gave her a scrutinizing glance , -- Emily , an anxious one , -- and Netta , half-pitying half-enjoying her confusion , dragged her off towards the breakfast-hall , saying , `` Never mind , Gertrude ; it 's no such dreadful thing , after all . '' 
Every time a servant passed through the entry , Gertrude was on the tiptoe of expectation ; and on occasion of a tap at the doer , such as occurred several times before dinner , she trembled so that she could hardly lift the latch . 
There was no summons to the parlor , however , and by noon the feverish excitement of alternate expectation and disappointment had brought a deep flush into her face , and she experienced , what was very unusual , symptoms of a severe headache . 
Conscious , however , of the wrong construction which would be sure to be put upon her conduct , if , upon any plea whatever , she on this day absented herself from the dinner-table , she made the effort to dress with as much care as usual ; and , as she passed up the hall to her seat , it was not strange that , though suffering herself , the rich glow that mantled her cheeks , and the brilliancy which excitement had given to her dark eyes , attracted the notice of others beside Mr. Phillips , who , seated at some distance , continued , during the short time that he remained at the table , to observe her attentively . 
WhenGertrude went to her room after dinner , which she did as soon as she had seen Emily comfortably established in the drawing-room in conversation with Madam Gryseworth , she found there a beautiful bouquet of the choicest flowers , which the chamber-maid assured her she had been commissioned to deliver to herself . 
Among these last was Gertrude , who availed herself of her headache as an excuse to Emily for this unwonted indulgence . 
Evening came at last , and with it an urgent invitation to Gertrude to accompany Dr. Gryseworth , his daughters , and the Petrancourts , to a concert to be given at the United States Hotel . 
This she declined doing , and persisted in her refusal , in spite of every endeavor to shake her resolution . 
She felt that it would be impossible for her to undergo another such encounter as that of the morning , -- she should be sure to betray herself ; and now that the whole day had passed , and Willie had made no attempt to see her , she felt that she would not , for the world , put herself in his way , and run the risk of being discovered and recognized by him in a crowded concert-room . 
No , -- she would wait ; she should see him soon , at the latest , and under the present circumstances she should not know how to meet him ; she would preserve her incognito a little longer . 
So they all went without her , and many others from their hotel ; and the parlor , being half-deserted , was very quiet , -- a great relief to Gertrude 's aching head and troubled mind . 
Later in the evening , an elderly man , a clergyman , had been introduced to Emily , and was talking with her ; Madam Gryseworth and Dr. Jeremy were entertaining each other , Mrs. Jeremy was nodding , and Gertrude , believing that she should not be missed , was gliding out of the room to go and sit a while by herself in the moonlight , when she met Mr. Phillips in the hall . 
She went ; and he talked very entertainingly to her , told her a great many amusing anecdotes , succeeded in making her smile , and even laugh , and seemed very much pleased at having done so . 
He related many amusing things he had seen and heard since he had been staying at Saratoga in the character of a spectator , and ended by asking her if she did n't think it was a heartless show . 
The question took Gertrude by surprise . 
She asked his meaning . 
`` I do n't know , '' answered Gertrude ; `` but it has not seemed so to me . 
exclaimed Gertrude , at once comprehending that Mr. Phillips suspected her to be smarting under some neglect , feeling of wounded pride , or , perhaps , serious injury ; `` you speak harshly ; all are not selfish , all are not unkind . '' 
`` Trust in goodness , wherever it be found , '' answered Gertrude . 
`` Call it not myworld , or myreligion , '' said Gertrude . 
`` You are a good child , and full of hope and charity , '' said Mr. Phillips , pressing her arm closely to his side . 
They had had a delightful time ; Alboni had excelled herself , and they were sosorry Gertrude did not go . 
She half repented of the sly intimation , even before the words had escaped her ; for Gertrude , as she stood leaning unconcernedly upon Mr. Phillips ' arm , looked so innocent of confusion or embarrassment , that her very manner refuted Netta 's suspicions . 
What became of Gertrude , all this time ? 
Could she , who for six years had nursed the fond idea that to Willie she was and should still continue to be , all in all , -- could she stand patiently by , and hear him thus disposed of and given to another ? 
She did do it ; not consciously , however , for her head swam round , and she would have fallen but for the firm support of Mr. Phillips , who held her arm so tightly that though he felt , the rest could not see , how she trembled . 
Fortunately , too , none but he thought of noticing her blanched face ; and , as she stood somewhat in the shadow , he alone , fully aware of her agitation , was watching the strained and eager eyes , the parted and rigid lips , the death-like pallor of her countenance . 
Standing there with her heart beating like a heavy drum , and almost believing herself in a horrid dream , she listened attentively , heard and comprehended every word . 
She could not , however , have spoken or moved for her life , and in an instant more accident might have betrayed her excited and almost alarming condition . 
But Mr. Phillips acted , spoke and moved forher , and she was spared an exposure from which her delicate and sensitive spirit would have shrunk indeed . 
Miss Gertrude , I must tell you an anecdote about that young man ; '' and , moving forward in the direction in which they had been walking when they met the party from the concert , he made as if they were still intending to prolong their promenade -- a promenade , however , in which he was the only walker , for Gertrude was literally borne upon his arm , until the rest of the company , who started at the same moment for the parlor , were hid within its shelter , and he and his companion were left the sole occupants of that portion of the piazza . 
O , how Gertrude thanked him in her heart for thus considerately leaving her , and giving her time to recover herself ! 
He saw that she would not faint , and knew that left alone she would soon rally her powers ; perhaps be deceived by the idea that even he was only half aware of her agitation , and wholly ignorant of its cause . 
He was gone some minutes , and when he returned she was perfectly calm . 
She tasted the water , but he did not urge her to drink it ; he knew she did not require it . 
She rose ; he put her arm once more through his , guided her feeble steps to a window which opened into hers and Emily 's room , and then , pausing a moment , said , in a meaning tone , at the same time enforcing his words by the fixed glance of his piercing eye , `` You exhort me , Miss Gertrude , to have faith in everybody ; but I bid you , all inexperienced as you are , to beware lest you believe too much . 
What an utter revulsion of feeling these words occasioned Gertrude ! 
They came to her with all the force of a prophecy , and struck deep into her heart . 
It was true , she thought , that he spoke merely such simple axioms as a long experience of the world might dictate ; but how forcible , in her case , was their application ! 
Had not she , blindly yielding to her gloomy presentiments and fears , been willing to lend a too ready ear to the whisperings of her own jealous imagination , and a too credulous one to the idle reports of others , while in reality she had proved a traitor to a more noble trust ? 
Who , during the many years she had known him , could have proved himself more worthy of confidence than Willie ? 
He had , indeed , been all this ; and while Gertrude called it to mind , and dwelt upon each phase of his consistent course , she could not fail to remember , too , that Willie , whether as the generous , kind-hearted boy , the adventurous , energetic youth , the successful , respected , yet sorrow-tried man , had ever manifested towards herself the same deep , ardent , enthusiastic attachment . 
The love which he had shown for her in her childhood , and during that period when , though still a child , she labored under the fullgrown care and sorrow entailed upon her by Uncle True 's sickness and death , had seemed to grow and deepen in every successive day , month and year , of their separation . 
During their long and regular correspondence , no letter had come from Willie that did not breathe the same spirit of devoted affection for Gertrude , -- an exclusive affection , in which there could be no rivalship . 
All his thoughts of home and future happy days were inseparably associated with her ; and although Mrs. Sullivan , with that instinctive reserve which was one of her characteristics , never broached the subject to Gertrude , her whole treatment of the latter sufficiently evinced that to her mind the event of her future union with her son was a thing certain . 
The hold declaration on Willie 's part , conveyed in the letter received by Gertrude soon after his mother 's death , that his hopes , his prayers , his labors , were now all for her , was not a more convincing proof of the tender light in which he regarded her than all their previous intercourse had been . 
Should Gertrude , then , distrust him ? 
Should she at once set aside all past evidences of his worth , and give ready credence to his prompt desertion of his early friend ? 
she resolved immediately to banish the unworthy thought ; to cherish still the firm belief that some explanation would shortly offer itself , which would yet satisfy her aching heart . 
Until then , she would trust him ; bravely and firmly too would she trust , for her confidence was not without foundation . 
As she made this heroic resolve , she lifted up her drooping head and gazed out into the night . 
Gertrude loved a starry night . 
It invigorated and strengthened her ; and now , as she looked up , directly above her head stood the star she so much loved , -- the star which she had once fondly fancied it was Uncle True 's blessed privilege to light for her . 
And , as in times long past these heavenly lights had spoken of comfort to her soul , she seemed now to hear ringing in her ears the familiar saying of the dear old man , `` Cheer up , birdie , for I 'm of the ` pinion ' t will all come out right at last . '' 
Gertrude continued through the short remainder of the evening in an elevated frame of mind , which might almost be termed joyful ; and , thus sustained , she was able to go back to the drawing-room for Emily , say good-night to her friends with a cheerful voice , and before midnight she sought her pillow and went quietly to sleep . 
To Gertrude this was the verybest thing , for it was a long-expected letter from Mr. Graham , which would probably mention the time of his return from abroad , and consequently determine the continuance of her own and Emily 's visit at Saratoga . 
Gertrude could hardly conceal her satisfaction , which was , however , if noticed by her friends , merely attributed to the pleasure she probably felt at the return of Mr. and Mrs. Graham ; and Emily , really delighted at the prospect of so soon meeting her father , to whom she was fondly attached , was eager to commence preparations for leaving . 
They therefore retired to their own room , and Gertrude 's time until dinner was fully occupied in the business of packing . 
Throughout the whole of the previous day she had been anxiously hoping that Willie would make his appearance at their hotel ; now , on the contrary , she as earnestly dreaded such an event . 
To meet him in so public a manner too as must here be inevitable , would , under her present state of feelings , be insupportable ; she would infinitely prefer to be in Boston when he should first see and recognize her ; and , if she tormented herself yesterday with the fear that he would not come , the dread that he might do so was a still greater cause of distress to her to-day . 
She was therefore relieved when , after dinner , Mr. Phillips kindly proposed a drive to the lake . 
Dr. Gryseworth and one of his daughters had , he assured Gertrude , agreed to take seats in a carriage which he had provided , and he hoped she would not refuse to occupy the fourth . 
Mr. Phillips and Gertrude had declined taking part , but stood for some time looking on . 
Mr. Phillips was quite screened from their observation by the trunk of a huge tree , and Gertrude sufficiently so to be unnoticed , though the sudden paleness which overspread her face as they drew near was so marked as clearly to indicate that she saw and recognized William Sullivan and Isabel Clinton . 
He again turned to reply , and this time the reproachful look which overspread his features was visible to Gertrude , as he said , with great earnestness , `` Certainly ; can you doubt it ? '' 
The strange , fixed , unnatural expression which took possession of Gertrude 's countenance as she listened to this conversation , to her so deeply fraught with meaning , was fearful to witness . 
`` Gertrude ! '' 
exclaimed Mr. Phillips , after watching her for a moment . 
`` Gertrude , for heaven 's sake do not look so ! 
Speak , Gertrude ! 
But she did not turn her eyes , did not move a feature of that stony face ; she evidently did not hear him . 
He took her hand . 
His face now wore an appearance of distress almost equal to her own ; -- great tears rushed to his eyesm , and rolled down his cheeks . 
Once he stretched forth his arms , as if he would gladly clasp her to his bosom and soothe her like a little child , but with evident effort he repressed the emotion . 
`` Gertrude , '' said he , at length , leaning forward and fixing his eyes full upon hers , `` what have these people done to you ? 
The words and the action brought Gertrude to herself . 
said she , `` he is not that . 
Do not speak of it ; do n't tell , '' and she looked anxiously in the direction of the bowling-alley . 
And , to his astonishment , -- for the fearful , rigid look upon her face had frightened him , -- she rose with perfect composure , and proposed going home . 
He accompanied her silently , and before they were half-way up the hill where they had left the carriage , they were overtaken by the rest of their party , and , in a few moments , were driving towards Saratoga . 
During the whole drive and the evening which followed Gertrude preserved this same rigid , unnatural composure . 
Once or twice before they reached the hotel Dr. Gryseworth asked her if she felt ill , and Mr. Phillips turned many an anxious glance towards her . 
The very tones of her voice were constrained , -- so much so that Emily , on her reaching the house , inquired , at once , `` What is the matter , my dear child ? '' 
To the careless eye , Emily was the more troubled of the two ; for Emily could not be deceived , and reflected back , in her whole demeanor , the better-concealed sufferings of Gertrude . 
Gertrude neither knew at the time , nor could afterwards recall , one-half of the occurrences of that evening . 
She never could understand what it was that sustained her , and enabled her , half unconsciously , to perform her part in them . 
How she so successfully concealed the misery she was enduring she never could comprehend or explain . 
She remembered it only as if it had all been a dream . 
Uncle True and Mrs. Sullivan were both her benefactors , and Emily was still a dear and steadfast friend ; but all of these had been more or less dependent upon Gertrude , and , although she could ever repose in the assurance of their love , two had long before they passed away come to lean wholly upon her youthful arm , and the other , the last one left , not only trusted to her to guide her uncertain steps , but those steps were evidently now tending downwards to the grave . 
Upon whom , then , should Gertrude lean ? 
To whom should she look as the staff of her young and inexperienced life ? 
To whom could she , with confidence , turn for counsel , protection , support and love ? 
And Willie had given his heart to another , -- and Gertrude would soon be left alone ! 
No wonder , then , that she wept as the broken-hearted weep ; wept until the fountain of her tears was dry , and she felt herself sick , faint and exhausted . 
And now she rose , approached the window , flung back from her forehead the heavy folds of her long hair , leaned out , and from the breath of the cool night-breeze drank in a refreshing influence . 
Her soul grew calmer , as , with her eyes fixed upon the bright lights which shone so sweetly and calmly down , she seemed to commune with holy things . 
Once more they seemed to compassionate her , and , as in the days of her lonely childhood , to whisper , `` Gerty ! 
Softened and touched by their pitying glance , she gradually sunk upon her knees ; her uplifted face , her clasped hands , the sweet expression of resignation now gradually creeping over her countenance , all gave evidence that , as on the occasion of her first silent prayer to the then unknown God , her now enlightened soul was holding deep communion with its Maker , and once more her spirit was uttering the simple words , `` Here am I , Lord ! '' 
And now a gentle hand is laid upon her head . 
She turns and sees Emily , whom she had believed to be asleep , but from whom anxiety had effectually banished slumber , and who , with fears redoubled by the sobs which Gertrude could not wholly repress , is standing by her side . 
`` Gertrude , '' said she , in a grieved tone , `` are you in trouble , and did you seek to hide it from me ? 
Do not turn from me , Gertrude ! '' 
and , throwing her arms around her , she drew her head close to her bosom , and whispered , `` Tell me all , my darling ! 
And Gertrude unburdened her heart to Emily , disclosing to her attentive car the confession of the only secret she had ever kept from her ; and Emily wept as she listened , and when Gertrude had finished she pressed her again and again to her heart , exclaiming , as she did so , with an excitement of tone and manner which Gertrude had never before witnessed in the usually clam and placid blind girl , `` Strange , strange , that you , too , should be thus doomed ! 
O , Gertrude , my darling , we may well weep together ; but still , believe me , your sorrow is far less bitter than mine ! '' 
And then , in the darkness of that midnight hour , was Gertrude 's confidence rewarded by the revelation of that tale of grief and woe which twenty years before had blighted Emily 's youth , and which , notwithstanding the flight of time , was still vivid to her recollection , casting over her life a dark shadow , of which her blindness was but a single feature . 
`` I was younger than you , Gertrude , '' said she , `` when my trial came , and hardly the same person in any respect that I have been since you first knew me . 
She laid her head upon Gertrude 's shoulder , and sobbed bitterly . 
`` Do not try to tell me the rest , dear Emily , '' said Gertrude . 
replied Emily , recovering her voice , and wiping away her tears ; `` no , they are never past ; it is only because I am so little wont to speak of them that they overcome me now . 
Nor am I unhappy , Gertrude . 
She then went on , in a firm though low and suppressed voice . 
`` You can not wonder , Gertrude , that in my feeble and invalid condition I was hardly capable of realizing at the time , far less of retaining any distinct recollection of the circumstances that followed my father 's words . 
Listen , Gertrude . 
exclaimed Gertrude ; `` he did not -- '' `` No , no ! 
shrieked Gertrude . 
cried Gertrude , `` and wretched , wretched young man ! '' 
`` Bestow all your pity on him , Gertrude , for his was the harder fate of the two . '' 
said Gertrude . 
Gertrude put her arms around her , and they clung closely to each other ; grief and sorrow made the union between them dearer than ever . 
`` I was then , Gertrude , '' continued Emily , `` a child of the world , eager for worldly pleasures , and ignorant of any other . 
Gertrude half forgot her own troubles while listening to Emily 's sad story ; and when the latter laid her hand upon her head , and prayed that she too might be fitted for a patient endurance of trial , and be made stronger and better thereby , she felt her heart penetrated with that deep love and trust which seldom come to us except in the hour of sorrow , and prove that it is through suffering only we are made perfect . 
As Mr. Graham had expressed in his letter the intention of being at the steamboat wharf in New York to meet his daughter and Gertrude on their arrival , Dr. Jeremy thought it unnecessary for him to accompany his charges further than Albany , where he could see them safely on their way , and then proceed to Boston with his wife over the Western Railroad ; Mrs. Jeremy being now impatient to return home , and having , moreover , no disposition to revisit the great metropolis of New York during the warm weather . 
He had hardly gone , and it wanted a few minutes only of the time for the boat to start , when a gay group of fashionables made their appearance , talking and laughing too loud , as it seemed to Gertrude , to be well-bred ; and conspicuous among them was Miss Clinton , whose companions were evidently making her the subject of a great deal of wit and pleasantry , by which , although she feigned to be teased and half-offended , her smiling , blushing face gave evidence that she felt flattered and pleased . 
gave intimation of the approach of some one who must not overhear their remarks ; and presently William Sullivan , with a travelling-bag in his hand , a heavy shawl thrown over one arm , and his countenance grave , as if he had not quite recovered from the chagrin of the previous evening , appeared in sight , passed Gertrude , whose veil was drawn over her face , and joined Isabel , placing his burden on a chair which stood near . 
As he did so , he drew a step nearer Gertrude , a step further from her whom he was addressing , and the former plainly distinguished the closing words of his remark : `` Then , if you will do your best to return on Thursday , I will try not to be impatient in the mean time . '' 
A moment more , and the boat was on its way ; not , however , until a tall figure , who reached the landing just as she started , had , to the horror of the spectators , daringly leaped the gap that already divided her from the shore ; after which , he sought the gentleman 's saloon , threw himself upon a couch , drew a book from his pocket , and commenced reading . 
As soon as the boat was fairly under way , and quiet prevailed in their neighborhood , Emily spoke softly to Gertrude , and said , `` Did n't I just now hear Isabel Clinton 's voice ? '' 
`` She is here , '' replied Gertrude , `` on the opposite side of the deck , but sitting with her back towards us . '' 
`` I believe she did , '' answered Gertrude , `` She stood looking this way while her party were arranging their seats . '' 
`` Very possible , '' replied Gertrude . 
Emily pressed Gertrude 's hand , and was silent . 
She , too , had overheard his farewell remark , and felt its significance . 
Several hours passed away , and they had proceeded some distance down the river ; for the motion of the boat was rapid -- too rapid , as it seemed to Gertrude , for safety . 
At first occupied by her own thoughts , and unable to enjoy the beautiful scenery , which a few weeks previously had caused her such keen delight , she had sat , inattentive to all around , gazing down into the deep blue water , and communing with her own heart . 
Gradually , however , she was led to observe several circumstances , which excited so much curiosity , and finally so much alarm , that , effectually aroused from the train of reflections she had been indulging , she had leisure only to take into view her own and Emily 's present situation , and its probable consequences . 
Gertrude sat with her hand locked in Emily 's , anxiously watching every indication of terror , and endeavoring to judge from the countenances and words of her most intelligent-looking fellow-travellers the actual degree of their insecurity . 
Emily , shut out from the sight of all that was going on , but rendered , through her acute hearing , vividly conscious of the prevailing alarm , was perfectly calm , though very pale ; and , from time to time , questioned Gertrude concerning the vicinity of the other boat , a collision with which was the principal cause of fear . 
Emily , however , still looked pallid , and , as Gertrude fancied , a little faint . 
`` Let us go below , Emily , '' said she ; `` it appears now to be very quiet and safe . 
Emily assented , and in a few minutes was comfortably reclining in a corner of the saloon , where she and Gertrude remained undisturbed until dinner-time . 
Gertrude opened her travelling-basket , and took out the package which contained their luncheon . 
Gertrude looked from the little withered slices of tongue and stale bread to the veteran sponge-cakes which completed the assortment , and was hesitating which she could most conscientiously recommend to Emily , when a civil-looking waiter appeared , bearing a huge tray of refreshments , which he placed upon a table close by , at the same time turning to Gertrude , and asking if there was anything else he could serve her with . 
`` This is not for us , '' said Gertrude . 
Gertrude dismissed the man with the assurance that they wanted nothing more , and then , turning to Emily , asked , with an attempt at cheerfulness , what they should do with this Aladdinlike repast . 
said Gertrude , conscious of her utter want of appetite ; `` I am not hungry ; but I will select a nice bit for you . '' 
Gertrude drew out her purse , and , after bestowing a fee upon the man , inquired whom she should pay for the meal . 
asked Gertrude , in surprise . 
But before the man could give her any reply , another whiteaproned individual appeared , and beckoned to his fellow-waiter , who , thereupon , snatched up his tray and trotted off , bending beneath its weight , and leaving Gertrude and Emily to wonder who the benevolent gentleman might be . 
Dinner concluded , Emily again laid down , advised Gertrude to do the same , and , supposing that her advice was being followed , slept for an hour ; while her companion sat by , watching the peaceful slumber of her friend , and carefully and noiselessly brushing away every fly that threatened to disturb a repose much needed by Miss Graham , who could , in her feeble state of health , ill afford to spare the rest she had been deprived of for one or two previous nights . 
`` Nearly a quarter past three , '' replied Gertrude , glancing at her watch -LRB- a beautiful gift from a class of her former pupils -RRB- . 
`` I do n't know exactly , '' replied Gertrude ; `` I think we must be near the Palisades ; if you will stay here , I will go and see . '' 
She passed across the saloon , and was about ascending the staircase , when she was startled and alarmed by a rushing sound , mingled with the hurried tread of feet . 
She kept on , however , though once or twice jostled by persons with frightened faces , who crowded past and pressed forward to learn the cause of the commotion . 
She had just gained the head of the stairway , and was looking fearfully round her , when a man rushed past , gasping for breath , his face of an ashen paleness , and shrieking the horried word of alarm -- fire -- fire ! 
Gertrude straightened her slight figure , and , with her dark eyes almost starting from their sockets , gazed around her upon every side . 
She gave but one glance ; then bounded down the stairs , bent solely on rejoining Emily . 
One step only had she taken when she felt herself encircled by a pair of powerful arms , and a movement made to again rush with her upon deck ; while a familiar voice gasped forth the words , `` Gertrude , my child ! 
`` There , there , '' pointed Gertrude , -- `` in the cabin . 
Gertrude and Mr. Phillips were by her side in an instant . 
He stooped to lift her in his arms , Gertrude at the same time exclaiming , `` Come , Emily , come ! 
`` Leave me , Gertrude -- leave me , and save yourselves ! 
Ere the words had left her lips , however , she was borne half-way across the saloon , Gertrude following closely . 
Her bows were consequently brought near to the land ; near enough to almost insure the safety of such persons as were at that part of the vessel . 
Mr. Phillips ' first thought , on gaining the saloon , was to beat down a window-sash , spring upon the guards , and drag Emily and Gertrude after him . 
Some ropes hung upon the guards ; he seized one , and , with the ease and skill of an old sailor , made it fast to the boat ; then turned to Gertrude , who stood firm and unwavering by his side . 
`` Gertrude , '' said he , speaking distinctly and steadily , `` I shall swim to the shore with Emily . 
`` Gertrude , go first ! '' 
exclaimed Gertrude ; `` we shall both be saved . '' 
`` Cling to my shoulder in the water , Emily , '' said Mr. Phillips , utterly regardless of her protestations . 
He took her once more in his arms ; there was a splash , and they were gone . 
At the same instant Gertrude was seized from behind . 
She turned , and found herself grasped by Isabel Clinton , who , kneeling upon the platform , and frantic with terror , was clinging so closely to her as utterly to disable them both ; at the same time shrieking , in pitiable tones , `` O , Gertrude ! 
Gertrude ! 
Gertrude tried to lift her up , but she was immovable ; and , without making the slightest effort to help herself , was madly winding Gertrude 's thick travelling-dress around her person , as if for a protection from the flames ; while ever , as they darted forth new and nearer lightnings , the frightened girl would cling more wildly to her companion in danger , at the same time praying , with piercing shrieks , that she would help and save her . 
But so long as Gertrude stood thus imprisoned and restrained by the arms which were clasped entirely around her she was powerless to do anything for her own or Isabel 's salvation . 
She looked forth in the direction Mr. Phillips had taken , and , to her joy , she saw him returning . 
At the same instant , a volume of flame swept so near the spot where the two girls were stationed , that Gertrude , who was standing upright , felt the scorching heat , and both were almost suffocated with smoke . 
And now a new and heroic resolution took possession of the mind of Gertrude . 
He would not weep for Gertrude -- at least not much ; and , if one must die , it should be she . 
With Gertrude , to resolve was to do . 
`` Isabel , '' said she , in a tone of such severity as one might employ towards a refractory child , with whom , as in this instance , milder remonstrances had failed -- `` Isabel , do you hear me ? 
She heard , shuddered , but did not move . 
Gertrude stooped down , and , forcibly wrenching apart the hands which were convulsively clenched , said , with a sternness which necessity alone extorted from her , `` Isabel , if you do as I tell you , you will be on shore in five minutes , safe and well ; but , if you stay there behaving like a foolish child , we shall both be burnt to death . 
Isabel rose , fixed her eyes upon Gertrude 's calm , steadfast face , and said , in a moaning tone , `` What must I do ? 
-- and , snatching the deep blue veil from her own head , she tied it round the neck and flung it over the fair hair of Isabel . 
exclaimed Gertrude , `` or you will be too late ! '' 
One more hot burst of fire , however , which issued forth through the window , gave her renewed courage to brave a mere seeming danger ; and , aided by Gertrude , who helped her over the guards , she allowed herself to be let down to the water 's edge . 
Mr. Phillips was fortunately just in time to receive her , for she was so utterly exhausted with fear that she could not have clung long to the rope . 
Gertrude had no opportunity to follow them with her eye ; her own situation , it may well be believed , was now all-engrossing . 
The flames had reached her . 
She could hardly breathe , so enveloped was she in clouds of dark smoke , which had more than once been relieved by streaks of fire , which had darted out within a foot of her . 
She could hesitate no longer . 
She seized the piece of rope , now left vacant by Isabel , who was rapidly approaching a place of safety , and , grasping it with all her might , leaped over the side of the fastconsuming vessel . 
How long her strength would have enabled her thus to cling , -- how long the guards , as yet unapproached by the fire , would have continued a sure support for the cable , -- there was no opportunity to test ; for just as her feet touched the cold surface of the river , the huge wheel , which was but a little distance from where she hung , gave one sudden , expiring revolution , sounding like a death-dirge through the water , which came foaming and dashing up against the side of the boat , and , as it swept away again , bore with it the light form of Gertrude ! 
Emily and Gertrude , too , are closely associated with those good old times ; and it adds greatly to the delusion of his fancy to dwell upon the certainty that they are both in the house , and that he shall see them at dinner ; a cosey , comfortable dinner , at which Mrs. Ellis will preside with her wonted formality and precision , and which no noisy , intruding upstarts will venture to interrupt or disturb . 
Yes , Gertrude is there , as well as the rest , saved -LRB- she hardly knew how -RRB- from the watery grave that threatened and almost engulfed her , and established once more in the peaceful , venerable spot , now the dearest to her on earth . 
When , with some difficulty , restored to the consciousness which had utterly forsaken her in the protracted struggle between death and life , she was informed that she had been found and picked up by some humane individuals , who had hastily pushed a boat from the shore , and aided in the rescue of the sufferers ; that she was clinging to a chair , which she had probably grasped when washed away by the sudden rushing of the water , and that her situation was such that , a moment more , and it would have been impossible to save her from the flames , close to which she was drifting . 
But of all this she had herself no recollection . 
From the moment when she committed her light weight to the frail tenure of the rope , until she opened her eyes in a quiet spot , and saw Emily leaning anxiously over the bed upon which she lay , all had been a blank to her senses . 
The great elm-trees , casting their deep shade upon the green and velvety lawa in front ; the neat , smooth gravel-walk , which led to the door-step , and then wound off in separate directions , into the mass of embowered shrubbery on the right , and the peach-orchard on the left ; the old arbor , with its luxuriant growth of woodbine ; the large summer-house , with its knotted , untrimmed , rustic pillars ; the little fish-pond and fountain ; and especially the flower-garden , during the last season nearly restored , by Gertrude 's true friend George , to its original appearance when under her superintendence ; all had the same friendly , familiar look as during the first happy summers , when Emily , sitting in her garden-chair beneath the wide-spreading tulip-tree , listened with delight to the cheerful voice , the merry laugh , and the light step of the joyous little gardener , who , as she moved about in her favorite element among the flowers , seemed to her affectionate , loving blind friend the sweetest Flora of them all . 
A family of squirrels , on the other hand , old pets of Gertrude 's , whom she loved to watch as they played in the willow-tree opposite her window , were just gathering in their harvest , and were busily journeying up and down , each with a nut in its mouth -LRB- for there were nut-trees in that garden , and quiet corners , such as squirrels love -RRB- . 
Mr. Graham 's arm-chair was in its usual place ; Gertrude 's birds , of which Mrs. Ellis had taken excellent care , were hopping about on the slender perches of the great Indian cage which hung on the wide piazza . 
Every exertion , even that of dressing , seems a labor to her ; she can not listen to Gertrude 's reading , but will constantly interrupt her , to ask questions concerning the burning boat , her own and others ' rescue , and every circumstance connected with the terrible scene of agony and death . 
Her nervous system is evidently fearfully shattered , and Gertrude looks at her and weeps , and wonders to see how her wonted calmness and composure have forsaken her . 
They have been together since breakfast , but Emily will not allow Gertrude to stay with her any longer . 
She must go away and walk , or , at least , change the scene . 
She may come back in an hour and help her dress for dinner , -- a ceremony which Miss Graham will by no means omit , her chief desire seeming to be to maintain the appearance of health and happiness in the presence of her father . 
Gertrude feels that Emily is in earnest , -- that she really wishes to be left alone ; and , believing that , for the first time , herpresence even is burdensome , she retires to her own room , leaving Emily to bow her head upon her hands , and , for the third time , utter a few hysterical sobs . 
Gertrude is immediately followed by Mrs. Ellis , who shuts the door , seats herself , and , with a manner of her own , alone sufficient to excite alarm , adds to the poor girl 's fear and distress by declaiming at length upon the dreadful effect the recollection of that shocking accident is having upon poor Emily . 
Fortunately for poor Gertrude , Mrs. Ellis is at length summoned to the kitchen , and she is left to reflect upon the strange circumstances of the last few days , -- days fraught to her with matter of thought for years , if so long a time had been allowed her . 
A moment , however , and she is again interrupted . 
The housemaid who carried Mr. Graham his paper has something for her , too . 
With a trembling hand she receives it , scarcely daring to look at the writing or post-mark . 
Her first thought is of Willie ; but before she could indulge either a hope or a fear on that score the illusion is dispelled , for , though the post-mark is New York , and he might be there , the hand-writing is wholly strange . 
Another idea , of scarcely less moment , flashes into her mind , and , hardly able to breathe from the violence of the emotions by which she is oppressed , she breaks the seal and reads : `` My darling Gertrude : My much-loved child , -- for such you indeed are , though a father 's agony of fear and despair alone wrung from me the words that claimed you . 
I tremble to think how my child will recoil from her father when she learns the secret , so long preserved , so sorrowfully revealed , that he is As Gertrude looked up when she had finished reading this strange and unintelligible letter , her countenance expressed only complete bewilderment , -- her eyes glistened with great tears , her face was flushed with wonder and excitement ; but she was evidently at a total loss to account for the meaning of the stranger 's words . 
She sat for an instant wildly gazing into vacaney , then , springing suddenly up , with the letter grasped in one hand , ran across the entry towards Emily 's room , to share with her the wonderful contents , and eagerly ask her opinion of their hidden meaning . 
Emily was already ill , -- the victim of agitation and excitement , -- it would not do to distress or even disturb her ; and , retreating to her own room as hastily as she had come , Gertrude once more sat down , to reperuse the singular words , and endeavor to find some clue to the mystery . 
That Mr. Phillips and the letter-writer were identical she at once perceived . 
It was no slight impression that his exclamation and conduct during the time of their imminent danger on board the boat had left upon the mind of Gertrude . 
had been continually ringing in her ears and haunting her imagination . 
Now the blissful idea would flash upon her that the noble , disinterested stranger , who had risked his life so daringly in her own and Emily 's cause , might indeed be her father ; and every fibre of her being had thrilled at the thought , while her head grew dizzy and confused with the strong sensation of hope that agitated and almost overwhelmed her brain . 
Then , again , she had repulsed the idea , as suggesting only the height of impossibility and folly , and had compelled herself to take a more rational and probable view of the matter , and believe that the stranger 's words and conduct were merely the result of powerful and overwhelming excitement , or possibly the indications of a somewhat disordered and unsettled imagination , -- a supposition which much of his previous behavior seemed to warrant . 
Her first inquiries , on recovering consciousness , had been for the preserver of Emily and Isabel , but he had disappeared ; no trace of him could be obtained , and Mr. Graham soon arriving and hurrying them from the neighborhood she had been reluctantly compelled to abandon the hope of seeing him again , and was consequently left entirely to her own vague and unsatisfactory conjectures . 
Gertrude did not observe this circumstance until she had folded and was preparing to direct her letter . 
She then recollected the unfortunate omission , and for a moment experienced a severe pang in the thought that her communication would never reach him . 
She was reässured , however , on examining the postmark , which was evidently New York , to which place she unhesitatingly addressed her missive ; and then , unwilling to trust it to other hands , tied on her bonnet , caught up a veil with which to protect and conceal her agitated face , and hastened to deposit the letter herself in the village post-office . 
Gertrude 's case seemed a peculiarly trying one . 
She had been , already , for a week past , struggling with a degree of suspense and anxiety which agitated her almost beyond endurance ; and now a new occasion of uncertainty and mystery had arisen , involving in its issues an almost equal amount of self-questioning and torture . 
The hiterto stern countenance of Mr. Amory softened as he listened to the young man 's enthusiastic outburst of admiration at Gertrude 's noble self-devotion . 
`` With all my earnestness of purpose , I could never have done half that she did ; I might have loved as much , but none but a woman 's heart could have conceived and planned , none but a woman 's hand could have patiently executed , the deeds that Gertrude wrought . 
She was more than a sister to me before ; she was my constant correspondent , my dearest friend : now she is bound to me by ties that are not of earth nor of time . '' 
`` I happened to see the old gentleman in the course of my travels , and this Gertrude Flint was with him . 
He told me a few facts concerning her ; -- nothing to her disadvantage , however ; in warning you against a mis-alliance , I speak only in general terms . '' 
`` This Gerty , as I was saying , Sullivan , will be a dead weight upon your hands ; a constant drawback to all your efforts for the attainment of fashionable society , in which it is hardly to be expected she can be exactly fitted to shine . 
You yourself pronounce her to be without wealth or beauty ; of her family you know nothing , and have certainly little reason to expect that , if discovered , it would do her any credit . 
`` It is no wonder that others failed to come up to my conception of all that is lovely in woman , since the character of Gertrude Flint was the standard by which each in my mind was measured . 
You have indeed failed to convince me that Gertrude can in any way be a drawback or disadvantage to the man who shall be so fortunate as to call her his . 
For my own part , I desire no better , no more truly aristocratic position in life , than that to which she is so well entitled , and to which she would be one of the brightest ornaments , -- the aristocracy of true refinement , knowledge , grace and beauty . 
Gertrude has no money in her purse , but her soul is the pure gold , tried in the furnace of sorrow and affliction , and thence come forth bright and unalloyed . 
She has no family , and her birth is shrouded in mystery ; but the blood that courses in her veins would never disgrace the race from which she sprung , and every throb of her unselfish heart allies her to all that is noble . 
When I parted from Gertrude , she was , in all but character , a mere child , being only twelve or thirteen years of age . 
Though much altered and improved since the time when she first came among us , I scarcely think she could have been said to possess much of what the world calls beauty . 
For myself , it was a matter of which I seldom thought or cared ; and , had I been less indifferent on the subject she was so dear to me that I should have been utterly unable to form an impartial judgment of her claims in this respect . 
`` I well remember , however , the indignation I once felt at hearing a fellow-clerk , who had accidentally met her in one of our walks , sneeringly contrast her personal appearance with that of our mutual employer 's handsome daughter , the same Miss Clinton of whom we have been speaking ; and the proportionate rapture with which I listened to the excellent teacher , Miss Browne , when on a certain occasion , being present at a school-examination , I overheard her commenting to a lady upon Gertrude 's wonderful promise in person as well as in mind . 
Whether the first part of this promise has been fulfilled , I have no means of judging ; but , as I recall her dignified and graceful little figure , her large , intelligent , sparkling eyes , the glow of feeling that lit up her whole countenance , and the peaceful , almost majestic expression which purity of soul imparted to her yet childish features , she stands forth to my remembrance the embodiment of all that I hold most dear . 
`` Six years may have outwardly changed her much ; but they can not have robbed her of what I prize the most . 
She has charms over which time can have no power , a grace that is a gift of Heaven , a beauty that is eternal . 
`` Miss Gertrude , '' said Mrs. Prime , opening the parlor-door , putting her head cautiously in , looking round , and then advancing with a stealthy pace , like that of a favorite family cat which is venturing to step a little beyond its usual limits , -- `` my ! 
I would n't be botherin ' with 'em , Miss Gertrude ; she wo n't be here for this fortnight , and Miss Ellis will have time enough . '' 
Gertrude smiled , and said , `` Everything looks as it used to in old times , when I first came here . 
I was quite a child then , '' continued she , with a sigh . 
`` For mercy 's sake , Miss Gertrude , do n't you begin to think about growin ' old ! 
There 's Miss Patty Pace , now -- '' `` I have been meaning to ask after her , '' exclaimed Gertrude , resuming her scissors , and commencing to rip another window-curtain . 
The baker 's boy that fetched the loaves , this mornin ' , brought an arrant from her , and she wants to see you the first chance she can get ; but I would n't hurry , either , about goin ' there , or anywhere , Miss Gertrude , till I got rested ; for I believe you a n't well , you look so spent and kind o ' tired out . '' 
`` Did she wish to see me ? '' 
asked Gertrude . 
I 'll go and see her , this very afternoon ; and you need n't feel anxious about me , Mrs. Prime , -- I am quite well . '' 
And Gertrude went . 
It was now her second day of suspense ; and this , like every other motive for action , was eagerly hailed . 
She found Miss Patty nearly bent double with rheumatism , dressed with less than her usual care , and crouching over a miserable fire , built of a few chips and shavings . 
She appeared , however , to be in tolerable spirits , and hailed Gertrude 's entrance by a cordial greeting . 
The curiosity for which she was always remarkable seemed to have increased , rather than diminished , with the infirmities of age . 
Innumerable were the questions she put to Gertrude regarding her own personal experiences during the past year , and the movements of the circles in which she had been living . 
She showed a special interest in Saratoga life , the latest fashions exhibited there , and the opportunities which the place afforded for forming advantageous matrimonial connections . 
`` So you have not yet chosen a companion , '' said she , after Gertrude had patiently and good-naturedly responded to all her queries . 
Not , '' continued she , with a little smirk , and a slight wave of the hand , `` that it is ever too late in life for one to meditate the conjugal tie , which is often assumed with advantage by persons of fifty or more ; and certainly you , who are still in the bloom of your days , need not despair of a youthful swain . 
However , existence , I may say , is two-fold when it is shared with a congenial partner ; and I had hoped that before now , Miss Gertrude , both you and myself would have formed such an alliance . 
said Gertrude . 
`` I have , Miss Gertrude , suffered incalculably . 
`` I am sorry to hear that you have been thus grieved , '' said Gertrude . 
`` O , Miss Gertrude ! '' 
exclaimed the old lady , lifting up both hands , and speaking in such a pitiable tone as would have excited the compassion of her listener , if it had been one grain less ridiculous , -- `` O , that I had the wings of a dove , wherewith to flee away from my kindred ! 
`` I was not aware that you had any relations , '' said Gertrude ; `` and it seems they are such only in name . '' 
`` And the other two , '' continued she , with equal heat , `` are beggars ! 
`` You hear me , Miss Gertrude ; you are a young lady of quick comprehension , and I avail myself of your contiguity ; which , although you deny the charge , may shortly be interrupted by some eager lover , to request at your hands a favor , such as I little thought once I should ever feel compelled to seek . 
The poor woman 's trembling voice evidenced a deep compassion for herself , which Gertrude could not help sharing ; and she expressed a willingness to comply with her wishes as far as was in her power , at the same time declaring her utter ignorance of all the forms of law . 
To Gertrude 's astonishment , Miss Patty announced her own perfect acquaintance with all the legal knowledge which the case demanded ; and in so complete and faultless a manner did she dictate the words of the important instrument , that , being afterwards properly witnessed , signed and sealed , it was found at the end of a few months , -- at which time Miss Patty was called upon to give up her earthly trust , -- free from imperfection and flaw , and proved a satisfactory direction for the disposal of the inheritance . 
Gertrude found it no easy task to gather and transfix in writing the exact idea which the old woman 's rambling dictation was intended to convey ; and it was two or three hours before the manuscript was completed , and the patient and diligent scribe permitted to depart . 
Gertrude found Mr. Graham sitting in front of a pleasant wood-fire , half dozing , half reading . 
She took a book and a low chair , and joined him . 
Finding the heat too great , however , she soon retreated to a sofa , at the opposite side of the room . 
Hardly had she done so when there was a ring at the front-door bell . 
Gertrude rose , but trembling from head to foot , so that she dared not trust herself to take a step forward . 
Willie advanced into the centre of the room , then looked at Gertrude , bowed , hesitated , and said , `` Miss Flint ! 
The color rushed into Gertrude 's face . 
She attempted to speak , but failed . 
Willie recognized her , and , starting forward , eagerly seized her hand . 
The perfect naturalness and case of his manner , the warmth and earnestness with which he took and retained her hand , reassured the agitated girl . 
For a moment he became in her eyes the Willie of old , her dear friend and playmate , and she found voice to exclaim , `` O , Willie ! 
Willie dropped Gertrude 's hand , and stepped towards him . 
`` Mr. Sullivan , '' said Gertrude , with a feeble attempt at a suitable introduction . 
And now all Gertrude 's embarrassment returned . 
But to these latter questions , or any of a similar nature , Gertrude required no answer . 
She had seen Willie before ; she was aware of his arrival ; knew even the steamer in which he had come ; but was anxious to conceal from him this knowledge . 
She could not tell him , since he seemed so ignorant of the fact himself , that they had met before ; and it may well be imagined that she was at an utter loss what to do or say , under the circumstances . 
Her embarrassment soon communicated itself to Willie ; and Mr. Graham 's presence , which was a restraint to both , made matters worse . 
`` I should hardly have known you , Gertrude . 
`` She got into New York about a week ago . '' 
`` You are changed , too , '' said Gertrude , at last , in reply to Willie 's unfinished comment . 
Then , fearing he night feel hurt at what he must know to be true in more ways than one , the color , which had retreated , mounted once more to her cheeks . 
`` You did not write , '' said Gertrude , in a faltering voice . 
Conscious that she had probably seemed far less surprised than he expected , she looked confused , but replied , `` I was disappointed about the letters , but I am very glad to see you again , Willie . '' 
`` You ca n't be so glad as I am , '' said he , lowering his voice , and looking at her with great tenderness . 
Gertrude smiled . 
Willie 's manner was so unchanged , his words so affectionate , that it seemed unkind to doubt his friendliness , although to his undivided love she felt she could have no claim . 
`` No , '' said she , `` I like surprises . 
Just at this moment , Gertrude 's birds , whose cage hung in the window at which Willie sat , commenced a little twittering noise , which they always made just at night . 
`` Your birds , '' said Gertrude ; `` the birds you sent me . '' 
Gertrude was silent . 
Gertrude related , in reply , that her nerves had been recently much disturbed by the terrible experiences through which she had passed ; and this led to the subject of the recent disaster , at which Gertrude forbore to mention her having been herself present . 
Willie spoke with feeling of the sad catastrophe , and with severity of the reckless carelessness which had been the cause of it ; and ended by remarking that he had valued friends on board the boat , but was unaware that Miss Graham , whom he loved for Gertrude 's sake , was among them . 
Conversation between Gertrude and Willie had by this time assumed a footing of ease , and something of their former familiarity , The latter had taken a seat near her , on the sofa , that they might talk more unrestrainedly ; for , although Mr. Graham might have dropped asleep again , for anything they knew to the contrary , it was not easy wholly to forget his presence . 
There were many subjects , however , on which it would have seemed natural for them to speak , had not Gertrude purposely avoided them . 
The causes of Willie 's sudden return , his probable stay , his future plans in life , and especially his reasons for having postponed his visit to herself until he had been in the country more than a week ; -- all these were inquiries which even ordinary interest and curiosity would have suggested ; but to Gertrude they all lay under embargo . 
She neither felt prepared to receive nor willing to force his confidence on matters which must inevitably be influenced by his engagement with Miss Clinton ; and therefore preserved utter silence on these topics , even taking pains to avoid them . 
They talked of Calcutta life , of Parisian novelties , of Gertrude 's school-keeping , and many other things , but spoke not a word of matters which lay nearest to the hearts of both . 
Mr. Graham , with frigid eivility , invited him to remain , and Gertrude hesitated not to urge him to do so ; but he declined with such decision that the latter understood plainly that he perceived and felt the neglect with which Mr. Graham had treated him and his visit . 
In addition to the fact that the old gentleman disliked young men as a class , and that Willie had intruded upon the rare and sacred privacy in which he was indulging , there was the bitter and still rankling recollection that Gertrude had once forsaken himself and Emily -LRB- for so he , in his own mind , styled her conscientious choice between conflicting duties -RRB- for the very family of which their visitor was the only remaining member ; a recollection which did not tend to soften or conciliate the easilyprejudiced and obstinate-minded man . 
Gertrude accompanied Willie to the door . 
Willie buttoned his coat , while he promised to see Gertrude on the following day . 
`` You have no overcoat , '' said she ; `` the night is chilly , and you are accustomed to a hot climate . 
You had better take this shawl ; '' and she took from the hat-tree a heavy Scotch plaid , which always hung there to be used on occasions like the present . 
He thanked her , and threw it over his arm ; then , taking both her hands in his , looked her steadily in the face for a moment , as if he would fain have spoken . 
Seeing , however , that she shrank from his mild and affectionate gaze , he dropped her hands , and , with a troubled expression , bade her good-night , and ran down the door-steps . 
Gertrude stood with the handle of the door in her hand until she heard the sound of his horse 's hoofs as he drove down the road ; then , hastily shutting it , ran and hid herself in her own room . 
Well as she had borne up during the longed-for and yet muchdreaded meeting , calmly and naturally as she had sustained her part , her courage all forsook her now , and in looking forward to days , weeks and months , of frequent intercourse , she felt that the most trying part of the struggle was yet to come . 
Had Willie been wholly changed , -- had he seemed the thoughtless worldling , the fashionable man of society , the cold-hearted devotee of business or of gain , -- in one of which characters she had lately half-fancied he would appear , -- had he greeted her with chilling formality , with heartless indifference , or with awkward restraint , she might , while she despised , pitied or blamed , have learned to love him less . 
In short , he was the Willie she had thought of , dreamed of , imagined and loved . 
It was evident that in giving his heart to another he had never wholly forgotten her ; while he loved Isabel , he would still feel a friendly , almost a brotherly regard for Gertrude . 
And she must school herself to the cruel task of seeing him day by day , hearing the story of his love for another , and wishing him all joy , as a sister might do a kind and affectionate brother . 
Gertrude sprung up , and opened the door . 
`` Bring me a light , '' said Gertrude . 
The girl went for a lamp , Gertrude , in the mean time , endeavoring to judge what a package of such unusual size and thickness could contain . 
She thought it impossible that any letter could so soon arrive from Mr. Amory . 
The next morning was the earliest time at which she had expected one . 
And , while she was wondering , Jane brought a lamp , by the light of which she at once detected his hand-writing ; and , breaking the seal , she drew from the envelope several closely-written pages , whose contents she perused with all the eagerness and excitement which the weight , import , and intense interest of the subject , might well demand . 
Thus allied , however , to those whom you love best , I am parted from them by a heavy curse ; for , not only was mine the ill-fated hand -LRB- O , hate me not yet , Gertrude ! -RRB- 
`` Do not shrink from me , Gertrude , as you read this frank confession of my passionate , and , at that moment , deeply-stirred nature . 
The few months that I passed with your mother , Gertrude , form a sweet episode in the memory of my stormy life . 
I came to love her much , -- not as I loved Emily ; that could not be expected , -- but , as the solitary flower that bloomed on the grave of all my early hopes , she cast a fragrance round my path ; and her child is not more dear to me because a part of myself than as the memento of the cherished blossom , snatched hastily from my hand , and rudely crushed . 
To my inquiries concerning you , Gertrude , Stephen , who had no longer any motives for concealing the truth , declared his inability to acquaint me with any particulars of a later period than the time of your residence with Trueman Flint . 
`` After wrestling and struggling long with contending and warring emotions , I resolved to make one endeavor to see and recognize you , Gertrude , and at the same time guard myself from discovery . 
`` Can you love me , Gertrude ? 
As Gertrude 's eyes , after greedily devouring the manuscript , fell upon its closing words , she sprung to her feet , and the next instant her little room -LRB- the floor strewed with the scattered sheets , which had dropped from her lap as she rose -RRB- is left vacant . 
Wrapped in the folds of his heavy cloak to preserve her from the everning air , and still encircled in his strong embrace , Gertrude feels that their union of spirit is not less complete ; while the long-banished man , who for years has never felt the sweet influence of a kindly smile , glows with a melting tenderness which hardening solitude has not had the power to subdue . 
Again and again the moon retires behind a cloud , and peeps out to find them still in the attitude in which she saw them last . 
At length , as she gains a broad and open expanse , and looks clearly down , Mr. Amory , lifting his daughter 's face , and gazing into her glistening eyes , while he gently strokes the disordered hair from her forehead , asks , in an accent of touching appeal , `` You will love me , then ? '' 
exclaimed Gertrude , sealing his lips with kisses . 
He bows his head upon her shoulder , and the strong man weeps . 
Her self-possession all restored at seeing him thus overcome , Gertrude places her hand in his , and startles him from his position by the firm and decided tone with which she whispers , `` Come ! '' 
With a half shudder , and a mournful shake of the head , he retreats , instead of advancing in the direction in which she would lead him . 
Emily , who had heard the voice of Willie Sullivan , as he bade Gertrude farewell on the door-step , and rightly conjectured that it was he , forbore making any inquiries for the absent girl at the tea-table , and , thinking it probable that she preferred to remain undisturbed , retired to the sitting-room at the conclusion of the meal , where -LRB- as Mr. Graham sought the library -RRB- she remained alone for more than an hour . 
Before they had gained the door , Emily was standing upright , straining her ear to catch the sound of every foot-fall ; and , when Gertrude and Mr. Amory entered , she looked more like a statue than a living figure , as , with clasped hands , parted lips , and one foot slightly advanced , she silently awaited their approach . 
One glance at Emily 's face , another at that of her agitated father , and Gertrude was gone . 
She saw the completeness of their mutual recognition , and , with instinctive delicacy , forbore to mar by her presence the sacredness of so holy an interview . 
As the door closed upon her retreating figure , Emily parted her clasped hands , stretched them forth into the dim vacancy , and murmured `` Philip ! '' 
Hardly had he departed , before another door was timidly opened , and Gertrude looked cautiously in . 
Her father went quickly towards her , and , passing his arm around her waist , drew her towards Emily , and clasped them both in a long and silent embrace . 
On the hour of sweet communion which succeeded we forbear to dwell ; -- the silent rapture of Emily , the passionately-expressed joy of Philip , or the trusting , loving glances which Gertrude cast-upon both . 
Emily , who had not thought of his leaving the spot which she hoped he would now consider his home , entreated him to remain ; and Gertrude , with her eyes , joined in the eager petition . 
When he had gone , Gertrude lingered a moment at the door , to watch his retreating figure , just visible in the light of the waning moon ; then returned to the parlor , drawing a long breath and saying , `` O , what a day this has been ! '' 
Throwing one arm around her neck , Gertrude knelt on the floor beside her , and together they sent up to the throne of God the incense of thanksgiving and praise ! 
This lot of land , which had been purchased through Willie 's thoughtful liberality , selected by Gertrude , and by her made fragrant and beautiful with summer rose and winter ivy , now enclosed also the forms of Mr. Cooper and Mrs. Sullivan ; and over these three graves Gertrude had planted many a flower , and watered it with her tears . 
Especially did she view it as a sacred duty and privilege to mark the anniversary of the death of each by a tribute of fresh garlands ; and , with this pious purpose in view , she left Mr. Graham 's house one beautiful afternoon , about a week after the events took place which are narrated in the previous chapter . 
She carried on her arm a basket , which contained her offering of flowers ; and , as she had a long walk before her , started at a rapid pace . 
Let us follow her , and briefly pursue the train of thought which accompanied her on her way . 
She had left her father with Emily . 
She would not ask him to join her in her walk , though he had once expressed a desire to visit the grave of Uncle True ; for he and Emily were talking together so contentedly , it would have been a pity to distrub them ; and for a few moments Gertrude 's reflections were engrossed by the thought of their calm and tranquil happiness . 
She thought of herself , too , as associated with them both ; of the deep and long-tried love of Emily , and of the fond outpourings of affection daily and hourly lavished upon her by her newly-found parent , and felt that she could scarcely repay their kindness by the devotion of a lifetime . 
Several times Willie had made an apparent effort to break through this unnatural barrier , and speak and act with the freedom of former days ; but a sudden blush , or sign of confusion and distress , on Gertrude 's part , deterred him from any further attempt to put to flight the reserve and want of confidence which subsisted in their intercourse . 
Again , Gertrude , who had resolved , previous to his last visit , to meet him with the frankness and cordiality which he might reasonably expect , smiled upon him affectionately at his coming , and offered her hand with such sisterly freedom , that he was emboldened to take and retain it in his grasp , and was evidently on the point of unburdening his mind of some weighty secret , when she turned abruptly away , took up some trivial piece of work , and , while she seemed wholly absorbed in it , addressed to him an unimportant question ; -- a course of conduct which put to flight all his ideas , and disconcerted him for the remainder of his stay . 
As Gertrude pondered the awkward and distressing results of every visit he had made her , she half hoped he would discontinue them altogether ; believing that the feelings of both would be less wounded by a total separation than by interviews which must leave on the mind of each a still greater sense of estrangement . 
Strange as it may seem , she had not yet acquainted him with the event so deep in its interest to herself , -- the discovery of her dearly-loved father . 
Once she tried to speak of it , but found herself so overcome , at the very idea of imparting to the confidant of her childhood an experience of which she could scarcely yet think without emotion , that she paused in the attempt , fearing that , should she , on any topic , give way to her sensibilities , she should lose all restraint over her feelings , and lay open her whole heart to Willie . 
But there was one thing that distressed her more than all others . 
In his first vain attempt to throw off all disguise , Willie had more than intimated to her his own unhappiness ; and , ere she could find an opportunity to change the subject , and repel a confidence for which she still felt herself unprepared , he had gone so far as to speak mournfully of his future prospects in life . 
The only construction which Gertrude could give to this confession was that it had reference to his engagement with Isabel ; and it gave rise at once to the suspicion that , infatuated by her beauty , he had impulsively and heedlessly bound himself to one who could never make him wholly happy . 
`` He loves her , '' thought Gertrude , `` and is also bound to her in honor ; but he sees already the want of harmony in their natures . 
And Gertrude 's sympathizing heart mourned not more deeply over her own grief than over the disappointment that Willie must be experiencing , if he had ever hoped to find peace in a union with so overbearing , ill-humored and unreasonable a girl . 
As Gertrude gazed upon the familiar beauties of those sacred grounds , which had been her frequent resort during several years , -- as she walked between beds of flowers , inhaled the fragrant and balmy air , and felt the solemn appeal , the spiritual breathings , that haunted the holy place , -- every emotion that was not in harmony with the scene gradually took its flight , and she experienced only that sensation of sweet and half-joyful melancholy which was awakened by the thought of the happy dead . 
After a while , she left the broad road which she had been following , and turned into a little by-path . 
This she pursued for some distance ; and then , again diverging through another and still narrower foot-track , gained the shady and retired spot which , partly from its remoteness to the public walks , and partly from its own natural beauty , had attracted her attention and recommended itself to her choice . 
The iron enclosure , of simple workmanship , was nearly overgrown by the green ivy , which had been planted there by Gertrude 's hand , and the moss-grown rock also was festooned by its graceful and clinging tendrils . 
Upon a jutting piece of stone , directly beside the grave of Uncle True , Gertrude seated herself , as was her wont , and after a few moments of contemplation , during which she sat with her elbow upon her knee and her head resting upon her hand , she straightened her slight figure , sighed heavily , and then , lifting the cover of her basket , emptied her flowers upon the grass , and with skilful fingers commenced weaving a graceful chaplet , which , when completed , she placed upon the grave at her feet . 
With the remainder of the blossoms she strewed the other mounds ; and then , drawing forth a pair of gardening-gloves and a little trowel , she employed herself for nearly an hour among the flowers and vines with which she had embowered the spot . 
Her work at last being finished , she again placed herself at the foot of the old rock , removed her gloves , pushed back from her forehead the simple but heavy braids of her hair , and appeared to be resting from her labors . 
It was seven years that day since Uncle True died , but the time had not yet come for Gertrude to forget the simple , kind old man . 
Often did his pleasant smile and cheering words come to her in her dreams ; and both by day and night did the image of him who had gladdened and blessed her childhood encourage her to the imitation of his humble and patient virtue . 
As she gazed upon the grassy mound that covered him , and scene after scene rose up before her in which that earliest friend and herself had whiled away the happy hours , there came , to embitter the otherwise cherished rememberance , the recollection of that third and seldom absent one , who completed and made perfect the memory of their fireside joys ; and Gertrude , while yielding to the inward reflection , unconsciously exclaimed aloud , `` O , Uncle True ! 
`` O , Gertrude , '' said a reproachful voice close at her side ; `` is Willie to blame for that ? '' 
She started , turned , saw the object of her thoughts with his mild sad eyes fixed inquiringly upon her , and , without replying to his question , buried her face in her hands . 
He threw himself upon the ground at her feet and , as on the occasion of their first childish interview , gently lfted her bowed head from the hands upon which it had fallen , and compelled her to look him in the face , saying , at the same time in the most imploring accents , `` Tell me , Gerty , in pity tell me why am I excluded from your sympathy ? '' 
But still she made no reply , except by the ears that coursed down her cheeks . 
added he , as Gertrude , unable to ensure his steadfast , searching look , turned her eyes in another direction , and strove to free her hands from his grasp . 
`` I am not cold , -- I do not mean to be , '' said she , her voice half-choked with emotion . 
`` O , Gertrude , '' replied he , relinquishing her hands , and turning away , `` I see you have wholly ceased to love me . 
`` I will not , '' exclaimed Gertrude eagerly . 
Perhaps your prudence was for the best ; but O , Gertrude , it has made me heart-broken ! '' 
`` Willie , '' exclaimed Gertrude , with excitement , `` do you know how strangely you are speaking ? '' 
And can you , in the very sight of these cold mounds , beneath which lie buried all else that I held dear on earth , crush and destroy , without compassion , this solitary but all engrossing -- '' `` Willie , '' inerrupted Gertrude , her calmness suddenly restored , and speaking in a kind but serious tone , `` is it honorable for you to address me thus ? 
My services , my time , my life , you may command , and in my far-distant home I will never cease to pray that the husband you have chosen , whoever he be , may prove himself worthy of my noble Gertrude , and love her one-half as well as I do ! '' 
`` Willie , '' said Gertrude , `` what madness is this ? 
exclained Gertrude , lifting her hitherto drooping eyelids , and casting upon him , through their wet lashes , a look of earnest scrutiny . 
cried Gertrude , `` could I doubt the evidence of my own eyes and ears ? 
`` Frankness , Gertrude ! 
exclaimed Gertrude , interrupting him , `` have you so soon forgotten your devotion to the belle of Saratoga ; your unwillingness to sanction her temporary absence from your sight ; the pain which the mere suggestion of the journey caused you , and the fond impatience which threatened to render those few days an eternity ? '' 
`` Listen to me , Gertrude , '' said he , in a fervent and almost solemn tone , `` and believe that in sight of my mother 's grave , and in the presence of that pure spirit -LRB- and he looked reverently upward -RRB- who taught me the love of truth , I speak with such sincerity and candor as are fitting for the ears of angels . 
`` But you understand the cause of that coldness now , '' said Gertrude , looking up at him through a rain of tears , which , like a summer sun-shower , reflected itself in rainbow smiles upon her happy countenance . 
Could I fail to contrast her unfeeling neglect , ill-concealed petulance , flagrant levity and irreverence of spirit , with the sweet and loving devotion , the saintly patience , and the deep and fervent piety , of my own Gertrude ? 
Thesun was casting long shadows , and the sunset hour was near , when Gertrude and Willie rose to depart . 
They left the cemetery by a different gateway , and in the opposite direction to that by which Gertrude had entered . 
As soon as they came in sight of the house , Gertrude , familiar with the customary ways of the family , perceived that something unusual was going forward . 
Lamps were moving about in every direction ; the front-door stood wide open ; there was , what she had never seen before , the blaze of a bright fire discernible through the windows of the best chamber ; and , as they drew still nearer , she observed that the piazza was half covered with trunks . 
All these appearances , as she rightly conjectured , betokened the arrival of Mrs. Graham , and possibly of other company . 
He drove rapidly towards Boston , and she , opening the gate , found herself in the arms of Fanny Bruce , who had been impatiently awaiting the departure of Willie to seize her dear Miss Gertrude , and , between tears and kisses , pour out her congratulations and thanks for her happy escape from that horrid steamboat ; for this was the first time they had met since the accident . 
asked Gertrude , as , the first excitement of the meeting over , they walked up to the house together . 
I hope he will , Miss Gertrude ; you ought to see him . '' 
They had now reached the house , and , through the open door , Gertrude could plainly distinguish the lond tones of Mrs. Graham 's voice , proceeding from the parlor on the right . 
She was talking to her husband and Emily , and was just saying , as Gertrude entered , `` O , it was the most awfulthing I ever heard of in my life ! 
And Gertrude Flint , too ! 
By the way , they say Gertrude behaved very well . 
Turning round , she now saw Gertrude , who was just entering the room , and , going towards her , she kissed her with considerable heartiness and sincerity ; for Mrs. Graham , though somewhat coarse and blunt , was not without good feelings when the occasion was such as to awaken them . 
Gertrude 's entrance having served to interrupt the stream of exclamatory remarks in which the excitable lady had been indulging for ten minutes or more , she now bethought herself of the necessity of removing her bonnet and outside garments , a part of which , being loosed from their fastenings , she had been dragging after her about the floor . 
`` I will assist you , '' said Gertrude , taking up a little carpet-bag , throwing a scarf which had been stretching across the room over her arm , and then following Mrs. Graham closely , in order to support the heavy travelling-shawl which was hanging half off that lady 's shoulders . 
She set the pitcher on the floor , however , and saluted Gertrude with a good grace . 
`` I 'm glad to see you alive , '' said she , `` though I ca n't look at you without shuddering , it reminds me so of that dreadful day when we were in such frightful danger . 
I 've wondered , ever since , Gertrude , how you could be so calm ; I 'm sure I should n't have known what to do , if you had n't been there to suggest . 
Kitty , who , in obedience to a loud call and demand from her aunt , had hastily run to her room with the little travelling-bag which Gertrude had dropped on the staircase , now came back quite out of breath , saying , `` I did ring the bell , twice . 
`` Let me take the pitcher , '' said Gertrude ; `` I am going down stairs , and will send Jane up with the water . '' 
`` Thank you , '' said Belle , rather feebly ; while Kitty exclaimed , `` No , no , Gertrude ; I 'll go myself . '' 
But it was too late ; Gertrude had gone . 
Gertrude found Mrs. Ellis full of troubles and perplexities . 
Nothing was a trouble to Gertrude , that night . 
Everything that she touched went right . 
Jane caught her spirit , and became astonishingly active ; and when the really bountiful table was spread , and Mrs. Ellis , after glancing around , and seeing that all was as it should be , looked into the beaming eyes and observed the glowing cheek and sunny smile of the happy girl , she exclaimed , in her ignorance , `` Good gracious , Gertrude ! 
It wanted but a few moments to tea-time , and Gertrude was selecting fresh napkins from a drawer in the china-closet , when Kitty Ray peeped in at the door , and finally entered , leading by the hand a little girl , neatly dressed in black . 
Her face was , at first , full of smiles ; but , the moment she attempted to speak , she burst into tears , and , throwing her arms round Gertrude 's neck , whispered in her ear , `` O , Gertrude , I 'm so happy ! 
replied Gertrude ; `` then you must n't cry . '' 
Upon this , Kitty laughed , and then cried again , and then laughed once more , and , in the intervals , explained to Gertrude that she was engaged , -- had been engaged a week , to the best man in the world , -- and that the child she held by the hand was his orphan niece , and just like a daughter to him . 
said the astonished Gertrude . 
`` Yes ; because I was so vain and silly , you know , and liked folks that were not worth liking , and did n't care much for anybody 's comfort but my own ; and , if you had n't taught me to be something better than that , and set me a good example , which I 've tried to follow ever since , he never would have thought of looking at me , much less loving me , and believing I should be a fit mother for little Gracie , here , '' and she looked down affectionately at the child , who was clinging fondly to her . 
`` He is a minister , Gertrude , and very good . 
The sympathy which Kitty came to claim was not denied her , and Gertrude , with her own eyes brimming with tears , assured her of her full participation in her joy . 
In the mean time , little Grace , who still clung to Kitty with one hand , had gently inserted the other within that of Gertrude , who , looking down upon her for the first time , recognized the child whom she had rescued from persecution in the drawing-room at Saratoga . 
Kitty was charmed with the coïncidence , and Gertrude , as she remarked the happy transformation which had already been effected in the countenance and dress of the little girl who had been so sadly in want of female superintendence , felt an added conviction of the wisdom of the young clergyman 's choice . 
Kitty was eager to give Gertrude a description of her lover , but a summons to the tea-table compelled her to postpone all further communications . 
Gertrude and Kitty were turning them carefully over ; and little Grace , who was sitting in Kitty 's lap , and Fanny , who was leaning over Gertrude 's shoulder , were listening eagerly to the young ladies ' explanations and comments . 
Willie 's knowledge of the company also spared the necessity of introduction to all but Emily ; and that being accidentally omitted , he gave an arch glance at Gertrude , and , taking an offered seat near Isabel , entered into conversation with her ; Mr. Amory being in like manner engrossed by Mrs. Graham . 
`` Miss Gertrude , '' whispered Fanny , as soon as the interrupted composure of the party was once more restored , and glancing at Willie , as she spoke , `` that 's the gentleman you were out driving with , this afternoon . 
I know it is , '' continued she , as she observed Gertrude change color , and endeavor to hush her , while she looked anxiously round , as if fearful the remark had been overheard ; `` is it Willie , Gertrude ? 
Gertrude became more and more embarrassed , while the mischievous Fanny continued to ply her with questions ; and Isabel , who had jealously noticed that Willie 's eyes wandered more than once to the table , turned on her such a scrutinizing look as rendered her confusion distressing . 
Mr. Amory rose and flung his arm over the shoulder and around the waist of Gertrude , who was passing on her way to hand the newspaper to Mr. Graham , and who , not having heard the remark of Mr. Clinton , received the caress with a sweet smile and an upturned face . 
`` Just like you , Gertrude ! 
`` My own noble Gertrude ! '' 
whispered Emily , as , leaning on Mr. Amory 's arm , she pressed Gertrude 's hand to her lips . 
`` O , Gertrude ! '' 
said Mr. Amory , reverently ; `` restored , at last , to her unworthy father , and -- you have no secrets here , my darling ? '' 
-- Gertrude shook her head , and glanced at Willie , who now stood at her side , -- `` and gladly bestowed by him upon her faithful and far more deserving lover . '' 
And he placed her hand in Willie 's . 
`` Gertrude , '' said Fanny , pulling Gertrude 's dress to attract her attention , and speaking in a loud whisper , `` are you engaged ? 
`` Yes , '' whispered Gertrude , anxious , if possible , to gratify Fanny 's curiosity , and silence her questioning . 
shouted Fanny , dancing round the room , and flinging up her arms . 
said Gracie , catching the tone of congratulation , and putting her mouth up to Gertrude for a kiss . 
`` And Iam glad , '' said Mr. Clinton , placing his hands upon those of Willie and Gertrude , which were still clasped together , `` that the noble and self-sacrificing girl , whom I have no words to thank , and no power to repay , has reaped a worthy reward in the love of one of the few men with whom a fond father may venture wholly to trust the happiness of his child . '' 
Exhausted by so much excitement , Mr. Clinton now complained of sudden faintness , and was assisted to his room by Willie , who , after waiting to see him fully restored , returned to receive the blessing of Emily upon his new hopes , and hear with wonder and delight the circumstances which attended the discovery of Gertrude 's parentage . 
Leaning on Willie 's shoulder , Gertrude stood gazing until the full circle was visible in a space of clear and cloudless ether . 
Gertrude sighed . 
`` It was no such easy task for poor old Uncle True , '' said she ; `` there have been great improvements since his time . '' 
said Willie , glancing round the welllit , warm and pleasantly-furnished parlor of his own and Gertrude 's home , and resting his eyes , at last , upon the beloved one by his side , whose beaming face but reflected back his own happiness , -- `` such improvements , Gerty , as we only dreamt of once ! 
A tear started to Gertrude 's eye ; but , pressing Willie 's arm , she pointed reverently upward to a beautiful , bright star , just breaking forth from a silvery film , which had hitherto half-overshadowed it ; the star through which Gertrude had ever fancied she could discern the smile of the kind old man . 
said she ; `` his lamp still burns brightly in heaven , Willie ; and its light is not yet gone out on earth ! '' 
In the mean time , Gertrude 's marriage had taken place , the Grahams had removed to their house in town -LRB- which , out of compliment to Isabel , who was passing the winter with her aunt , was more than ever crowded with gay company -RRB- , and the bustling mistress was already projecting changes in her husband 's country-seat . 
