In less than a fortnight he there received despatches from his uncle , informing him that he had taken effectual measures to save himself from a second conspiracy against the honour of his family -- that his daughter , Alice , had that day been led to the altar by Charles Leslie ; and concluding with a polite hope , that though his voyage had been interrupted , it might not be long deferred . 
Leslie perished in a foreign service . 
The sister of Leslie , a Mistress Grafton , attended Alice , and with her she left a will committing her children to my guardianship . 
Before the children were separated , they were baptised by the Reverend Mr. Cotton , and in commemoration of the christian graces of their mother , their names were changed to the puritanical appellations of Hope and Faith . 
It was difficult to say which excited her most , the anticipation of seeing her niece , Hope Leslie , or of inspecting the box of millinery . 
`` My dear mother , '' said Everell , `` it is now quite time to look out for father and Hope Leslie . 
He then aided his little sisters in their arrangement of the playthings they had brought forth to welcome and astonish Hope ; and finally he made an elevated position for Faith Leslie , where she might , he said , as she ought , catch the very first glimpse of her sister . 
`` Thank , thank you , Everell , '' said the little girl as she mounted her pinnacle ; `` if you knew Hope , you would want to see her first too -- every body loves Hope . 
We shall always have pleasant times when Hope gets here . '' 
Mr. Fletcher was attended by two Indians , who followed him , bearing on a litter , his favourite , Hope Leslie . 
Hope inquired its meaning . 
They told her , and raising herself , and tossing back the bright curls that shaded her eyes , she clapped her hands , and accompanied them with the English words , -- ` The home ! 
she said . 
He turned on her a smile of delight -- he could not speak ; the sight of his home had opened the flood-gates of his heart . 
`` Oh now , '' she continued , with growing animation , `` I shall see my sister . 
`` Put down the litter , '' said Hope Leslie to her bearers . 
`` There , take that for your sulkiness , '' she said , giving each a tap on his ear , and half impatient , half sportive , she leaped from the litter , and bounded forward . 
He passed on , without appearing to hear the cries and entreaties of Hope Leslie , who , forcibly detained by Mr. Pynchon , screamed , `` Oh ! 
but at last , finding resistance useless , she yielded , and was conveyed to the village , where she was received by her aunt Grafton , whose grief was as noisy and communicative , as Mr. Fletcher 's had been silent , and unexpressed by any of the forms of sorrow . 
They placed the little Leslie on the back of one of the Mohawks , and attached her there by a happis , or strong wide band , passed several times over her , and around the body of her bearer . 
She screamed at her separation from Oneco , but being permitted to stretch out her hand and place it in his , she became quiet and satisfied . 
The Mohawk auxiliaries , who so lately had seemed two insatiate bloodhounds , now appeared to regard the reciprocal devotion of the children with complacency ; but their amity was not extended to Everell ; and Saco in particular , the Indian whom he had wounded , and whose arm was irritated and smarting , eyed him with glances of brooding malignity . 
Magawisca perceived this , and dreading lest the savage should give way to a sudden impulse of revenge , she placed herself between him , and Everell . 
This movement awakened Mononotto from a sullen reverie , and striking his hands together , angrily , he bade Magawisca remove from the English boy . 
She obeyed , and mournfully resumed her place beside her father , saying , as she did so , in a low thrilling tone , `` my father -- my father ! 
Mononotto felt her reproach -- his features relaxed , and he laid his hand on her head . 
she cried , exultingly . 
-- she waived her hand to the Mohawks to stop , and they obeyed . 
`` Why , '' she continued in an impassioned voice -- `` why hath my father 's soul stooped from its ever upward flight ? 
Yonder roof , '' and she pointed towards Bethel , `` has sheltered thy children -- the wing of the mother-bird was spread over us -- we ate of the children 's bread ; then , why hast thou shed their blood ? 
Magawisca felt that her father 's purpose was not to be shaken . 
She looked at Everell , and already felt the horrors of the captive 's fate -- the scorching fires , and the torturing knives ; and when her father commanded the party to move onward , she uttered a piercing shriek . 
`` And I am a coward , '' replied Magawisca , reverting to her habitually calm tone , `` if to fear my father should do a wrong , even to an enemy , is cowardice . '' 
Again her father 's brow softened , and she ventured to add , `` send back the boy , and our path will be all smooth before us -- and light will be upon it , for my mother often said , ` the sun never sets on the soul of the man that doeth good . ' '' 
Magawisca had unwittingly touched the spring of her father 's vindictive passions . 
Magawisca must feel , or feign submission ; and she laid her hand on her heart , and bowed her head , in token of obedience . 
Everell had observed , and understood her intercession , for , though her words were uttered in her own tongue , there was no mistaking her significant manner ; but he was indifferent to the success of her appeal . 
Hope was kindled ; extrication and escape seemed possible ; quickening thoughts rushed through his mind . 
He glanced his eye on Faith Leslie , whom he would gladly have rescued ; but Magawisca shook her head , and he felt that to attempt it , would be to ensure his own failure . 
She raised her head , as the strangers entered , and at the sight of Faith Leslie , uttered a faint exclamation , deeming the fair creature a messenger from the spirit-land -- but being informed who they were and whence they came , she made every sign and expression of courtesy to them , that her feeble strength permitted . 
Her hut contained all that was essential to savage hospitality . 
Thefollowing letter , written by Hope Leslie , and addressed to Everell Fletcher , then residing in England , will show , briefly , the state of affairs at Bethel , seven years subsequent to the date of the events already detailed . 
She maintained , as usual , that whatever was not practised and known in England , was not worth possessing ; but finally she concluded her opposition with her old customary phrase , ` Well , it 's peculiar of you , Miss Hope , ' which , you know , she always uses to characterize whatever opposes her opinions or inclinations . 
I was lying with my ear over the rock , when your father reminded me that it was time to return , and bade Digby , who had attended us , ` look well to Miss Leslie 's descent , and lend a helping hand to Master Cradock . ' 
``` Ah , Miss Hope Leslie , ' said Cradock , restored to his self-complacency , ` you are a merry thought atween us . ' 
Miss Hope ! ' 
` It is enough , ' she said , ` to make the hair of a saint stand on end to have such carryings-on in my master 's house ; and you , Miss Hope Leslie , that have been , as it were , exalted to heaven in point of privileges , that you should be nothing better than an aid and abetment of this imissary of Satan . ' 
`` ` Now , Miss Leslie , ' retorted the provoking creature , ` you are in the very gall of bitterness and blindness of the flesh . 
I said she was a witch in Mistress Fletcher 's time . ' 
I tell you again , Miss Hope Leslie -- remember Mrs. Fletcher -- remember what she got for shutting her ears to me . ' 
Tell me , Hope , all you witnessed -- tell me truly . ' 
Our magistrates looked sternly on me , and Mr. Holioke said , ` Take care , Hope Leslie , that thou art not found in the folly of Balaam , who would have blessed , when the Lord commanded him to curse . ' 
I thought he looked pale and weak , and I offered him a chair and begged him to sit down , but he declined it with a wave , or rather a poke , of his hand , for he never in his life made a motion so graceful as a wave , and drawing a paper from his pocket , he said , ` I have here an address to thee , sweet Miss Hope Leslie , wherein I have put in a body of words the spirit of my late meditations , and I have endeavoured to express , in the best latinity with which many years of daily and nightly study have possessed me , my humble sense of that marvellous wit and kindness of thine , which made thee , as it were , a ministering angel unto me , when I was brought nigh unto the grave by the bite of that most cunning beast of the field , with whom , I verily believe , the devil left a portion of his spirit , in payment of the body he borrowed to beguile our first parents . ' 
As surely as the sun will appear there again , ' she added , pointing to the east -- ` so surely , Hope Leslie , you shall see your sister . ' 
I should ever bear in mind that life is a race and a warfare , and nothing else : you have this yet to learn , Hope . 
`` Farewell , dear Everell , forget not thy loving friend and sister , `` Hope Leslie . '' 
As Hope had declined her aunt 's messages , the good lady affixed them herself -- and here they follow . 
`` Valued sir -- Being much hurried in point of time , I would fain have been myself excused from writing , but Miss Hope declines adding to her letter what I have indited . 
`` I enclose it for you , believing it will greatly advantage you , though Hope insists that if the cold has not yet left you , it will be a chronic disease before this reaches you ; in which case , I would advise you to apply to old Lady Lincoln , who hath in her family receipt-book , many renowned cures for chronics . 
Hope , I am sorry to say , is as obstinate as ever ; and it was but yesterday , when I wished her to take some diluents for a latent fever , that she reminded me of the time when she , and you , in one of your mischievous pranks , threw the pennyroyal tea out of the window , and suffered me to believe that it had cured an incipient pleurisy . 
Hope is , to be sure , notwithstanding her living entirely without medicine , in indifferent good health ; her form is rather more slender than when you left us , as is becoming at seventeen ; but her cheek is as round and as ruddy as a peach . 
Hope thought to convince me I was wrong by matching it with a dead leaf from the forest . 
Was not that peculiar of Hope ? 
I will enclose a lock of Hope 's hair , which is precisely the hue I mean . 
You will observe it has a golden tinge , that makes it appear in all lights as if there were sunshine on it , and yet it is a decided brown ; a difficult colour to hit , but by due inquiry , and I am sure , from the pains you were at to procure the articles I requested for Hope , you will spare no trouble , I think it may be obtained . 
`` Your present to Hope was a real beauty . 
The only blue fillet , and the prettiest , of any colour , I ever saw ; and such a marvellous match for her eyes -- that is , when the light is full on them ; but you know they always had a changeable trick with them . 
better then , they were the true Leslie blue . 
Your taste in it can not be too much commended ; but then , as I tell Hope , one does not want always to see the same thing ; and she doth continually wear it ; -- granted , it keeps the curls out of her eyes , and they do look lovely falling about it , but she wears it , week-days and Sundays , feast days and fast days , and she never yet has put on the Henriette ; -LRB- do remember a thousand thanks to Lady Amy for the pattern -RRB- the Henriette , I made her , like that worn by the queen the first night she appeared in the royal box . 
`` N.B. Hope will have given you the particulars of poor Master Cradock 's miscarriage ; his mind was set a little ageeby it , but he appears to be mending . 
Thereare hints in Miss Leslie 's letter to Everell Fletcher , that require some amplification to be quite intelligible to our readers . 
She looked upon herself , as the unhappy , though innocent cause , of the old Indian woman 's misfortune -- and , rash as generous , she had resolved , if possible , to extricate her . 
This was a bold , dangerous , and unlawful interposition ; but Hope Leslie took counsel only from her own heart , and that told her that the rights of innocence were paramount to all other rights , and as to danger to herself , she did not weigh it -- she did not think of it . 
Digby came to the village to attend her home , and this afforded her an opportunity of concert with him : in the depths of the night , when all the household were in profound sleep , she stole from her bed , found her way to the door of the dungeon , and leading out the prisoner , gave her into Digby 's charge , who had a canoe in waiting , in which he ferried her to the opposite shore , where he left her , after having supplied her with provisions to sustain her to the vallies of the Housatonick , if , indeed , her wasted strength should enable her to reach there . 
The gratitude of the poor old creature for her unexpected deliverance from shameful death , is faintly touched on in Hope 's letter . 
She could scarcely , without magnifying her own merit , have described the vehement emotion with which Nelema promised that she would devote the remnant of her miserable days to seeking and restoring her lost sister . 
Again and again , while Hope urged her departure , she reiterated this promise , and finally , when she parted from Digby , she repeated , as if it were a prophecy , ` She shall see her sister . ' 
Nothing could be more unlike the authentic , ` thoroughly educated , ' and thoroughly disciplined young ladies of the present day , than Hope Leslie ; as unlike as a mountain rill to a canal -- the one leaping over rocks and precipices , sportive , free , and beautiful , or stealing softly on , in unseen , unpraised loveliness ; the other , formed by art , restrained within prescribed and formal limits , and devoted to utility . 
Neither could any thing in outward show , be more unlike a modern belle , arrayed in the mode de Paris of the last Courier des dames , than Hope Leslie , in her dress of silk or muslin , shaped with some deference to the fashion of the day , but more according to the dictates of her own skill and classic taste , which she followed , somewhat pertinaciously , in spite of the suggestions of her experienced aunt . 
Fashion had no shrines among the pilgrims ; but where she is most abjectly worshipped , it would be treason against the paramount rights of nature , to subject such a figure as Hope Leslie 's to her tyranny . 
Her height was not above the medium standard of her sex ; she was delicately formed ; the high health and the uniform habits of a country life , had endowed her with the beauty with which poetry has invested Hebe ; while her love for exploring hill and dale , ravine and precipice , had given her that elastic step and ductile grace which belong to all agile animals , and which made every accidental attitude , such , as a painter would have selected to express the nymphlike beauty of Camilla . 
It may appear improbable that a girl of seventeen , educated among the strictest sect of the puritans , should have had the open , fearless , and gay character of Hope Leslie ; but it must be remembered that she lived in an atmosphere of favour and indulgence , which permits the natural qualities to shoot forth in unrepressed luxuriance -- an atmosphere of love , that like a tropical climate , brings forth the richest flowers and most flavorous fruits . 
She was transferred from the care of the gentlest and tenderest of mothers , to Mr. Fletcher , who , though stern in his principles , was indulgent in his practice ; whose denying virtues were all self-denying ; and who infused into the parental affection he felt for the daughter , something of the romantic tenderness of the lover of her mother . 
It has been seen that Hope Leslie was superior to some of the prejudices of the age . 
This may be explained , without attributing too much to her natural sagacity . 
Those persons she most loved , and with whom she had lived from her infancy , were of variant religious sentiments . 
Her father had belonged to the established church , and though he had much of the gay spirit that characterized the cavaliers of the day ; he was serious and exact in his observance of the rites of the church . 
She had often been her mother 's companion at the proscribed ` meeting , ' and witnessed the fervor with which she joined in the worship of a persecuted and suffering people . 
Early impressions sometimes form moulds for subsequent opinions ; and when at a more reflecting age , Hope heard her aunt Grafton rail with natural good sense , and with the freedom , if not the point , of mother wit , at some of the peculiarities of the puritans , she was led to doubt their infallibility ; and like the bird that spreads his wings and soars above the limits by which each man fences in his own narrow domain , she enjoyed the capacities of her nature , and permitted her mind to expand beyond the contracted boundaries of sectarian faith . 
As our fair readers are not apt to be observant of dates , it may be useful to remind them that Miss Leslie 's letter was written in October . 
Among others , were two gentlemen , who met now for the first time : the one , a youth in manhood 's earliest prime , with a frank , intelligent , and benevolent countenance , over which , as he strained his eyes to the shore , joy and anxiety flitted with rapid vicissitude . 
The other had advanced further into life ; he might not be more than five and thirty , possibly not so much ; but his face was deeply marked by the ravages of the passions , or perhaps the stirring scenes of life . 
His eyes were black and piercing , set near together , and overhung by thick black brows , whose incessant motion indicated a restless mind . 
The concentration of thought , or the designing purpose , expressed by the upper part of his face , was contradicted by his loose , open flexible lips . 
His complexion had the same puzzling contrariety -- it was dark and saturnine , but enlivened with the ruddy hue of a bon-vivant . 
His nose neither turned up nor down , was neither Grecian nor Roman . 
`` Hope Leslie ! 
For a moment , Everell 's eyes were rivetted to Hope Leslie 's face , which he seemed to compare with the image in his memory . 
Miss Leslie now drew her friend 's arm within hers , and as she did so , she perceived she trembled excessively ; but too considerate to remark an agitation , which it was obvious the lady did not mean to betray , she did not appear to notice it , and proceeded to give Everell such particulars of his friends , as he must be most impatient to hear . 
Everell was rejoiced at this decision , for gloomy recollections were , in his mind , always associated with Bethel , and he was never happy when he thought of the dangers to which Miss Leslie was exposed there . 
and Hope Leslie , noticing that Everell cast stolen glances of anxious inquiry at her friend , made , with the usual activity of a romantic imagination , a thousand conjectures as to the nature of their acquaintance . 
But there was nothing said or done to assist her speculations , and while the governor was looking over a letter of introduction , presented to him by Everell 's chance acquaintance , who had announced himself by the name of Sir Philip Gardiner , the young ladies withdrew to their own apartment . 
Hope Leslie was the first to speak . 
`` Come , my dear Esther , '' she said , `` it is in vain for you to think of hiding your heart from me ; if you do not fairly conduct me through its mazes , I shall make use of the clue you have dropped , and find my own way through the labyrinth . '' 
`` Hope Leslie -- what clue do you mean ? 
`` Oh , Hope Leslie ! 
Hope was startled at the unaffected solemnity , and deep distress , of her friend : every pulsation of her heart was audible , and her lips , which before were as pale as death , became absolutely blue . 
She threw her arms around her , and kissed her tenderly . 
`` Dear , dear Esther , '' she said , `` forgive me for offending thee . 
`` You are very kind , very generous , Hope ; but have you not , already , guessed the secret I have striven to hide ? 
`` Why , then , if I must answer truly -- perhaps , I have , '' replied Hope , looking , in spite of herself , as archly as the mischievous little god , when he sees one of his own arrows trembling in the heart ; `` ` set a thief to catch a thief , ' dear Esther , is an old maxim ; and though I have never felt this nervous malady , yet , you know , I am skilled in the books that describe the symptoms , thanks to aunt Grafton 's plentiful stock of romances and plays . '' 
Whatever it may cost me , you shall know all , Hope Leslie . 
Hope 's curiosity was on tiptoe ; and notwithstanding her generous resolution , not voluntarily to penetrate her friend 's mystery , she was delighted with the dawn of a disclosure , which , she believed , would amount to a simple confession of a tender sentiment . 
She sincerely pitied Miss Downing 's sufferings ; but it is , perhaps , impossible for a third person to sympathise fully with feelings of this nature . 
`` Now , Esther , '' she said , sportively , `` fancy me to be the priest , and yourself the penitent . 
`` Stop , stop , Hope Leslie -- do not trifle with holy words , and most unholy rites ; but listen , seriously , and compassionate a weakness that can never be forgotten . '' 
There she met Hope Leslie -- a bright gay spirit -- an allegro to her penseroso . 
Hope sometimes ventured to rally Esther on her over-scrupulousness , and Miss Downing often rebuked the laughing girl 's gaiety ; but , however variant their dispositions , they melted into each other , like light and shade , each enhancing the beauty and effect of the other . 
Hope often spoke of Everell , for he was associated with all the most interesting recollections of her childhood , and probably with her visions of the future ; for what girl of seventeen has not a lord for her air-built castles ? 
`` My dear Esther , '' said Hope , brushing away the tears of sympathy that suffused her eyes , `` I assure you I am not crying because I consider it a crying case ; you people that dwell in the clouds have always a mist before you ; now I can see that your path is plain , and sure the end thereof ; just give yourself up to my guidance , who , though not half so good and wise as you are , am far more sure-footed . 
Arguments appear very sound that are fortified by our wishes , and Miss Downing 's face was assuming a more cheerful expression , when Jennet -LRB- our old friend Jennet -RRB- came into the room to give the young ladies notice to prepare for dinner , and to inform them that Sir Philip Gardiner was to dine with them -- `` and a godly appearing man he is , '' said Jennet , `` as ever I laid my eyes on ; and it is a wonder to me , that our Mr. Everell should have fallen into such profitable company , for , I am sorry to see it , and loath to say it , he looks as gay as when he used to play his mad pranks at Bethel -- when it was next to an impossibility to keep you and him , Miss Hope , from talking and laughing even on a Sabbath day . 
`` A sin indeed , Miss Leslie ! 
In nothing was the sweetness of Hope Leslie 's temper more conspicuous , than in the perfect good nature with which she bore the teasing impertinencies of this menial , who , like a cross cur , was ready to bark at every passer by . 
`` And a duty so faithfully performed , my dear aunt , '' said Hope , `` that I fancy , like other duties , it becomes easy from habit . '' 
Hope was exquisitely susceptible to her aunt 's frailties , but she would fain have sheltered them from the observation of others . 
`` Now , my gentle Esther , '' she whispered to Miss Downing , `` lecturing is not your vocation , and this is not lecture day . 
Just as they entered , Hope whispered , `` remember , Esther , the festal day is sacred , and may not be violated by a sad countenance . '' 
He congratulated Miss Downing upon the very apparent effect of the climate on her health , and then , breaking through the embarrassment that slightly constrained him in addressing her , he turned to Hope Leslie , and they talked of the past , the present , and the future , with spontaneous animation ; their feelings according and harmonising , as naturally as the music of the stars when they sang together . 
Hope turned to Everell to remark on the graceful gestures by which they expressed their salutations to the company -- `` Good heavens ! '' 
`` Nothing , nothing , '' said Everell , wishing to avoid observation , and turning towards the window : he then added in explanation to Hope , who followed him , `` these are the first Indians I have seen since my return , and they brought , too vividly to mind , my dear mother 's death . '' 
Hope Leslie understood so well the temper of the company she was in , that she instantly perceived a slight depression of their mercury at what appeared to them , a tone of levity in Everell . 
She interposed her shield . 
`` What may we expect for the future , '' she said , `` if now it seems strange to us , that ten years ago , the best in the colony were reduced to living upon muscles , acorns , and ground nuts ; and that our bountiful governor , having shared his flour and meat with the poorest in the land , had his last batch of bread in the oven , when the ship with succours arrived ? 
for it was you who told me the story , '' she added , bending towards Cradock , who sat opposite to her . 
Cradock , who always felt , at the slightest notice from Hope , an emotion similar to that of a pious catholic , when he fancies the image of the saint he worships to bend propitiously towards him ; Cradock dropped his knife and fork , and erecting his body with one of those sudden jerks characteristic of awkward men , he hit the elbow of a servant who was just placing a gravy-boat on the table , and brought the gravy down on his little brown wig , whence it found its way , in many a bubbling rill , over his face , neck , and shoulders . 
`` It was the Lion , Miss Hope -- ha -- indeed -- a wonderful memory -- yes , yes -- it was the Lion . 
`` That name , '' said Sir Philip Gardiner , in a low tone to Hope Leslie , next whom he sat , `` should , I think , have been reserved , where names are significant , for a more just appropriation . '' 
she asked . 
`` But , '' said Miss Leslie , `` you will not dine on fish alone , and on Friday too -- why we shall suspect you of being a Romanist . '' 
Hope Leslie looked up with a deprecating glance , as if she would have said , ` Heaven help my tutor ! 
asked the elder Fletcher , who now , for the first time , noticed that she looked unusually pale and pensive . 
exclaimed Hope , touching his elbow , but not in time to check him . 
asked Everell of Hope Leslie ; but Hope was too much diverted with his mistake and honest consternation to reply . 
Hope Leslie perceived the pit , and essayed a safe passage over it . 
`` Esther , '' she said , `` Everell shall not be our knight at tilt or tournament , if he can not use the lance your uncle has dropped at his feet . 
This rebuke quenched , at once , the spark of gaiety Hope had kindled , and the dinner , never a prolonged meal in this pattern mansion , was finished without any other conversation than that exacted by the ordinary courtesies of the table . 
He hath been assiduously courted by Miss Leslie 's paternal connexions , and I have reason to believe , they have solicted him to marry her , and bring her to England . 
Miss Leslie is reported here , to be wanting in grace , a want that I fear would not impoverish her in young Fletcher 's estimation ; and to be a maiden of rare comeliness , a thing precious in the eyes of youth -- too apt to set a high price on that which is but dust and ashes . 
`` It seemeth to me , the motive of Miss Leslie 's mother , in going with her offspring to the colony , should be duly weighed and respected . 
Could her purpose , in any other way , be so certainly accomplished , as by uniting her daughter speedily with a godly and approved member of the congregation ? '' 
It appeareth from Downing 's letter , that there have been tender passages between your son and his daughter Esther ; and even if Hope Leslie hath fed her fancies with thoughts of Everell , yet I think she would be forward to advance her friend 's happiness , for , notwithstanding she doth so differ from her in her gay carriage , their hearts appear to be knit together . '' 
`` You do my beloved child but justice ; what is difficult duty to others , hath ever seemed impulse in her ; and I have sometimes thought that the covenant of works was to her a hindrance to the covenant of grace ; and that , perhaps , she would hate sin more for its unlawfulness , if she did not hate it so much for its ugliness . '' 
I have thought the child rests too much on performances ; and you must allow , brother , that she hath not , I speak it tenderly , that passiveness , that , next to godliness , is a woman 's best virtue . '' 
Governor Winthrop paused for a reply , but receiving none , he proceeded -- `` One of our most promising youth hath this day discoursed to me of Hope Leslie , and expressed a matrimonial intent towards her . '' 
`` These be cardinal points with us , '' replied Mr. Fletcher , calmly , `` but they are not like to commend him to a maiden of Hope Leslie 's temper . 
She inclineth not to bookish men , and is apt to vent her childish gaiety upon the ungainly ways of scholars . '' 
and old enough to be the father of Hope Leslie ! '' 
`` The fitter guide for her youth . 
`` Methinks , '' he said , `` you are over-hasty in proposing to match Hope Leslie with this stranger . '' 
I noted that Sir Philip was struck with Hope 's outward graces . 
He is an uncommon personable man , and hath that bearing that finds favour in maidens ' eyes , and the thought came to me , that he may have been sent here , in good time , to relieve all our perplexities ; and to confess the truth , brother , if I may use the sporting language of our youth , I am impatient to put jesses on this wild bird of yours , while she is on our perch . 
It was just at twilight , on Saturday evening , when the elder Mr. Fletcher coming into Madam Winthrop 's parlour , found his son sitting there alone , and interrupted a very delightful meditation on the eloquence of Hope Leslie , who had just been with him , descanting on the virtues of her friend Esther . 
The charms of the fair speaker had , we believe , a far larger share of his thoughts , than the subject of her harangue . 
replied Everell , as if just waking from a dream , and then added , for then he caught a glimpse of Hope through the door , with her hat and mantle . 
He snatched his hat , and would have joined Miss Leslie ; but she saw his intention , and turning to him , as she passed the threshold of the door , she said , `` You need not go with me , Everell ; I have to call for aunt Grafton , at Mrs. Cotton 's . '' 
`` No ; I had rather you would not , '' she said decidedly , and hurried away without any explanation of her preference . 
`` What can have disturbed Hope ? '' 
asked Mr. Fletcher , for both he and his son had observed that her cheek was flushed , and her eye tearful . 
`` Hope is of a feeling make : she often reminds me of the Delta lands , where the fruits spring forth before the waters have retired . 
Everell , thou seest that Hope loves thee even as she loved thee in thy childhood . 
Let her affection remain of this temper , I charge thee , as thou respectest thy father 's , and thine own honour . 
He acknowledged , in the first place , what his most cherished wishes had been , in relation to Hope , and Everell . 
The elder Fletcher offered his arm to Miss Downing , and endeavoured to draw her into conversation ; but she was timid , downcast , and reserved ; and mentally comparing her with Hope Leslie , he felt how improbable it was that Everell would ever prefer her . 
The governor then entered , unattended by his halberd-bearers , -- -LRB- a ceremony dispensed with , except on Sunday -RRB- -- and , followed by his family , he walked slowly to his pew , where Miss Leslie was already seated between Mrs. Grafton , and Sir Philip Gardiner . 
She rose , and contrived to exchange her location for one next Miss Downing . 
said Hope , in a despairing tone ; `` for there is Mr. Wheeler in the pulpit , and he always talks of eternity till he forgets time . '' 
`` My dear Hope ! '' 
The service presently began , and Hope endeavoured dutifully to assume a decorous demeanour , and join Esther in singing the psalm ; but her mind was soon abstracted , and her voice died away . 
To Hope , he appeared to maintain one even pace straight forward , like the mortal in the fairy tale , sentenced to an eternal walk over a boundless plain . 
Hope sighed audibly , and once more resumed a listening attitude . 
While this self-styled ` professor of mysteries ' spoke , Hope was so much interested in his genuine enthusiasm and mysticism , -LRB- for he was the Swedenborg of his day , -RRB- that she forgot her own secret subject of anxiety : but when he had finished , and half a dozen of the ruling elders rose at the same moment to prove the weapons of orthodoxy upon the arch heretic , she whispered to Esther , `` I can never bear this ; -- I must make an apology to Madam Winthrop , and go home . '' 
Hope now , and many others instinctively rose , in anticipation of the dismissing benediction ; but Mr. Cotton waved his hand for them to sit down , till he could communicate to the congregation the decision to which the ruling elders and himself had come , on the subject of the last Sabbath sermon . 
Everell stole a glance at Hope , and dutifully offered his arm to Miss Downing . 
Hope , intent only on one object , was hurrying out of the pew , intending , in the jostling of the crowd , to escape alone ; but she was arrested by Madam Winthrop 's saying , `` Miss Leslie , Sir Philip offers you his arm ; '' and at the same moment her aunt stooped forward , to beg her to wait a moment till she could send a message to Deacon Knowles ' wife , that she might wear her new gown with the Turkish sleeves the next day . 
thought Hope , with indeed little of the spirit of a martyr . 
`` Surely , surely , '' said the good man eagerly ; `` there is nothing you could ask me , Miss Hope , as you well know -- be it ever so disagreeable -- that I would not do . '' 
It is very well , Miss Hope , it is very well ; -- you may go ; -- you know Cradock at best is purblind at night ; -- but it is very well ; -- you can go -- I can get home alone . 
Poor Cradock saw he had offended , but how , he knew not ; and he looked imploringly to Hope to extricate him ; but she was too anxious about her own affairs , to lend her usual benevolent care to his embarrassment . 
Hope , on the contrary , always moved , as the spirit moved her ; and now she felt an irresistible impulse to hurry forward . 
Hope dared not confess her anxiety to get forward , and she could no longer check it . 
`` It is very undignified , and very unladylike , and very unbecoming , Hope ; and I must say , it is untoward and unfroward of you , to hurry me along so . 
Do n't you think it is very peculiar of Hope , Sir Philip ? '' 
The knight suspected that Miss Leslie 's haste was merely impatience of his society ; and he could scarcely curb his chagrin , while he said , that `` the young lady undoubtedly moved with uncommon celerity ; -- indeed he had before suspected she had invisible wings . '' 
`` Thank you for your hint , Sir Philip , '' exclaimed Hope . 
`` It is a night , '' she continued , looking up at the bright moon , `` to make one long to soar -- so I will just spread my wings , and leave you to crawl on the earth . '' 
She withdrew her arm from Sir Philip 's , and tripping on before them , she soon turned a corner , and was out of sight . 
However , to do him justice , he did not make an entire loss of it , but so adroitly improved the opportunity to win the aunt 's favour , that she afterwards said to Hope , that if she must see her wedded to a puritan , she trusted it would be Sir Philip , for he had nothing of the puritan but the outside . 
Hope had not proceeded far , when she heard a quick step behind her , and looking back , she saw the young man whose gaze had disturbed her at the lecture . 
She had an indefinite womanly feeling of fear ; but a second thought told her she had best conceal it , and she slackened her pace . 
Her pursuer approached till he was parallel to her , and slackened his also . 
He looked at her without speaking ; and as Hope glanced her eye at him , she was struck with an expression of wretchedness and passion that seemed unnatural , on a countenance so young and beautiful . 
`` Any thing is better than this strange silence , '' thought Hope ; so she stopped , looked the stranger full in the face , and said inquiringly , `` You have perhaps lost your way ? '' 
The melancholy tone and mysterious look of the stranger , led Hope to suspect that he meant to convey more than the natural import of his words ; but without seeming to understand more , she said , `` I perceive , by your foreign accent , that you are a stranger here . 
`` I need no guidance , '' said Hope hastily , still persisting in understanding him literally : `` I am familiar with the way ; and if I can not be of service to you , must bid you good night . '' 
exclaimed the stranger , laying his hand on Hope 's arm , with an imploring look : `` You look so good -- so kind -- you may be of service to me ; '' and then bursting into a passionate flood of tears , he added -- `` Oh , mon Dieu ! 
Hope now lost all thought for herself , in concern for the unhappy being before her . 
she asked . 
`` Nay , do not weep ; but tell me , '' said Hope , `` what I can do for you : I can not remain here longer . '' 
demanded Hope , in a tone of mingled alarm and impatience : `` do you mean any thing ? '' 
The boy looked apprehensively about him , and approaching his lips close to Hope 's ear , he said in a whisper -- `` Promise me you will not love my master . 
Hope now began to think that the youth 's senses were impaired ; and , more impatient than ever to escape from him , she said -- `` Oh , I can promise all that , and as much more in the same way , as you will ask of me . 
He dropped on his knee -- pressed her hand to his lips -- rose to his feet , and left her so hastily , that she was scarcely conscious of his departure till he was beyond her sight . 
Whatever matter for future reflection this interview might have afforded her , Hope had now no time to dwell on it ; and she hastened forward , and surmounting a fence at the south-eastern extremity of the burial ground , she entered the enclosure , now the church-yard of the stone chapel . 
The moon was high in the heavens ; masses of black clouds were driven by a spring gale over her bright disk , producing startling changes , from light to darkness , and from darkness to that gleamy , indefinite , illusive brightness , which gives to moonlight its dominion over the imagination . 
At another time , Hope Leslie would have shrunk from going alone , so late at night , to this region of silence and sad thoughts ; and her fancy might have embodied the shadows that flitted over the little mounds of earth , but she was now so engrossed by one absorbing , anxious expectation , that she scarcely thought of the place where it was to be attained -- and she pressed on , as if she was passing over common clods . 
Once , indeed , she paused , as the moon shot forth a bright ray -- stooped down before a little hillock -- pressed her brow to the green turf , and then raising her eyes to heaven , and clasping her hands , she exclaimed , `` Oh , my mother ! 
-- After this solemn adjuration , she again rose to her feet , and looked anxiously around her for some expected object . 
`` But I can not know , '' she said , `` till I have passed the thicket of evergreens ; -- that was the appointed spot . '' 
She passed the thicket -- and at that moment the intensity of her feelings spread a mist before her eyes . 
She faltered , and leaned on one of the grave-stones for support ; -- and there we must leave her for the present , to the secresy she sought . 
While Hope Leslie was deeply engaged in the object of her secret expedition , Governor Winthrop 's household was thrown into alarm at her absence . 
`` Miss Hope , '' she said , `` was always like a crazed body of moonlight nights ; there was never any keeping her within the four walls of a house . '' 
Governor Winthrop naturally concluded , -LRB- for all persons not deeply interested are apt to be rational , -RRB- that Miss Leslie had taken refuge under some safe covert , and he summoned his family to their evening devotions . 
Everell remained but long enough to learn that there were no tidings of Hope , and was again rushing out of the house , when he met the object of his apprehensions at the hall door . 
Hope had , by this time , advanced far enough into the entry for Everell to perceive , by the light of the lantern , that she was muffled in Sir Philip Gardiner 's cloak . 
His face had kindled with joy at her appearance ; all light now vanished from it , and he stood eyeing Hope with glances that spoke , though his lips refused again to move ; while she , without observing or suspecting his emotion , did not reply to him , and was only intent on disengaging herself from the cloak . 
Everell again looked at Miss Leslie in the natural expectation of some explanation , but she appeared only concerned to escape to her own apartment without any inquiries from the family . 
Her face was extremely pale ; and her voice , still affected by recent agitation , trembled as she said to Everell , `` be kind enough to tell your father , and all of them , that I have come in drenched with the rain , and have gone to my own room -- that I am wearied , and shall throw off my wet garments , and get to bed as soon as possible ; '' and then adding , a `` good night , Everell , '' and without awaiting any answer , she was springing up the stairs when the parlour-door was thrown open , and half-a-dozen voices exclaimed , in the same breath , `` oh , Hope ! '' 
-- `` Hope Leslie ! '' 
-- `` Miss Hope Leslie ! 
`` Yes , Miss Leslie , '' said Governor Winthrop , but in a tone of kindness rather than authority , `` render an account of thyself to thy rulers . '' 
`` Yes , come along Hope , '' said Mrs. Grafton , `` and make due apologies to Madam Winthrop . 
`` For heaven 's sake , '' said Hope to Esther , who had just joined her , `` do go in and make an apology for me . 
`` No , Hope -- come in yourself -- aunt Winthrop looked a little displeased -- you had best come -- I know she will expect it . '' 
Thus beset , Hope dared not any longer hesitate , and with that feeling , half resolution and half impatience to have a disagreeable thing over which often impelled her , she descended the stairs as hastily as she had ascended them , and was in the parlour , confronting all the inquirers , before she had devised any mode of relieving herself from the disagreeable predicament of not being able to satisfy their curiosity . 
`` Yes , Master Cradock , quite as wet , '' replied Hope , rallying her spirits , `` and with almost as little discretion left , or I should not have entered the parlour in this dripping condition . 
After a moment 's reflection , her course seemed plain to her . 
To divulge the real motive of her untimely walk , was impossible -- to invent a false excuse , to her , equally impossible . 
She turned to Governor Winthrop and said , with a smile , that Everell , at least , thought might have softened the elder Brutus -- `` I surrender myself to the laws of the land , having no hope , but from the mercy of our magistrates . 
Governor Winthrop was not accustomed to have his inquisitorial rights resisted by those of his own household , and he was certainly more struck than pleased by Hope 's moral courage . 
Then turning to the impatient culprit , he added , `` I am bound to say to thee , Hope Leslie , that thou dost take liberties unsuitable to thy youth , and in violation of that deference due to the rule and observances of my household , and discreditable to him who hath been entrusted with thy nurture and admonition . '' 
Hope received the first part of this reproof with her eyes rivetted to the floor , and with a passiveness that had the semblance of penitence ; but at the implied reproach of her guardian , for whom she had an affection that had the purity of filial and the enthusiasm of voluntary love , she raised her eyes -- their mild lustre , for an instant , gave place to the passage of a flash of indignation direct from her heart . 
`` There is no shadow any where , Miss Leslie , if there is sunshine in the conscience ; and I can answer for the Governor , that he will overlook the disturbance of this evening , provided you are discreet in future . 
Robin , '' she said , turning to a servant , `` light a little fire in the young ladies ' room , and tell Jennet to warm Miss Leslie 's bed -- let her strew a little sugar in the pan -- an excellent thing , Mrs. Grafton , to take soreness out of the bones . '' 
Madam Winthrop was solicitous to remove the impression from her guests that Miss Leslie was treated with undue strictness . 
Hope thanked her for her kindness ; and protesting that she had no need of fire , or warming-pan , she hastily bade good-night , and retired to her own apartment . 
said Mrs. Grafton , `` I do n't see any thing so marvellouslyright in what Miss Esther says -- it 's what every body knows , who knows Hope , that she never did a wrong thing . '' 
But he had cherished for Hope a consecrating sentiment -- he had invested her with a sacredness which the most refined , the purest , and most elevated love throws around the object of its devotion . 
This vagrant knight has scarcely turned his eyes from Hope since he first saw her , and I know he has addressed the most presumptuous flattery to her . 
I would as soon barter my soul , as seek any woman for fortune -- and Hope Leslie ! 
While he was pursuing this train of fancies , in which some sweetness mingled with the bitter , Esther had followed Hope to her apartment , and having shut the door , turned on her friend a look of speaking inquiry and expectation , to which Hope did not respond , but continued in a hurried manner to disrobe herself , throwing her drenched shawl on one side , and her wet dress on the other . 
Esther took a silver whistle from the toilet , and was opening the door to summon Jennet with its shrill call , when Hope , observing her intention , cried out , `` If you love me , Esther , do n't call Jennet to-night ; I wish at least to be spared her croaking . '' 
`` Yes , '' said Hope , `` I prefer any disorder to the din of Jennet 's tongue . 
`` Precision , I know , is not interesting , '' said Esther , with a slight tremulousness of voice ; `` but if you had a little more of it , Hope , it would save yourself , and your friends a vast deal of trouble . '' 
said Hope , turning her face to the pillow , to hide the tears that gushed from her eyes : `` I know I am vexed and cross -- but I did not mean that you was too precise ; -- I I do not know what I meant . 
`` Unburthen your heart then , to me , '' said Esther , kneeling by the bed-side , and throwing her arm over Hope : `` most gladly would I pay back the debt of sympathy I owe you . '' 
Perhaps Miss Downing was not quite pleased with Hope 's discriminating between the censure of Everell , and the rest of the family ; for she said , with more even than her ordinary gravity -- `` There is but one thing , Hope , that ought to make you independent of the opinion of any of your friends . '' 
`` Hope Leslie , '' said Esther , `` you do allow yourself too much liberty of thought and word : you certainly know that we owe implicit deference to our elders and superiors ; -- we ought to be guided by their advice , and governed by their authority . '' 
`` Esther , you are a born preacher , '' exclaimed Hope , with a sort of half sigh , half groan of impatience . 
This last request was made in a plaintive tone , and with unaffected seriousness , and Esther turned away to perform the duty , with a deep feeling of its necessity ; for Hope , conscious of her integrity , had perhaps been too impatient of rebuke ; and if to a less strict judge than Esther , she seems to have betrayed a little of the spoiled child , to her she appeared to be very far from that gracious state , wherein every word is weighed before it is uttered , and every action measured before it is performed . 
Miss Leslie was arrested by the uncommon sweetness of the stranger 's voice ; and fixing her eye on her , she was struck with the singular dignity and grace of her demeanor , a certain air indicating an `` inborn royalty of soul , '' that even the ugly envelope of a blanket did not conceal . 
The stranger seemed equally interested in Miss Leslie 's appearance , and fixing her eye intently on her -- `` Pray try my moccasins , lady , '' she said earnestly . 
`` Oh , certainly , I should of all things like to buy a pair of you , '' said Hope , and advancing , she was taking them from her shoulder , over which they were slung , when she , ascertaining by a quick glance that the servant had disappeared , gently repressed Miss Leslie 's hand , saying at the same time , `` Tell me thy name , lady . '' 
-- Hope Leslie . 
Hope asked in return , in a voice rendered almost inarticulate by the thought that flashed into her mind . 
The stranger cast down her eyes , and for an half instant hesitated , then looking apprehensively around , she said , in low distinct accents , `` Hope Leslie -- I am Magawisca . '' 
echoed Hope . 
and she sprang towards the parlour door to summon Everell . 
`` Silence -- stay , '' cried Magawisca , with a vehement gesture , and at the same time turning to escape should Hope prosecute her intention . 
Hope perceived this , and again approached her . 
`` It can not then be Magawisca , '' she said , and she trembled as she spoke , with doubts , hopes , and fears . 
Magawisca might have at once identified herself , by opening her blanket , and disclosing her person ; but that she did not , no one will wonder who knows that a savage feels more even than ordinary sensibility at personal deformity . 
She took from her bosom a necklace of hair and gold entwined together . 
she asked . 
Hope grasped it , pressed it to her lips , and answered by exclaiming passionately -- `` My sister ! 
Listen to me , Hope Leslie -- my time is brief -- I may not stay here another moment ; but come to me this evening at nine o'clock at the burial place , a little beyond the clump of pines , and I will give thee tidings of thy sister ; keep what I say in thine own bosom ; tell no one thou hast seen me ; come alone , and fear not . '' 
`` Oh , I have no fear , '' exclaimed Hope , vehemently , `` but tell me -- tell me . '' 
Magawisca put her finger on her lips in token of silence , for at this instant the door was again opened ; not by the servant who had before appeared , but by Jennet . 
While Jennet was uttering this superfluous counsel , Hope sprang off the steps after Magawisca , anxious for some farther light on her dawning expectations . 
`` Stay , oh stay , '' she said , `` one moment , and let me try your moccasins . '' 
In the meanwhile Hope stood behind her aunt and Jennet ; her hands clasped , and her beautiful eyes bent on Magawisca with a supplicating inquiry . 
A neat article , '' she continued , `` I should like you to have a pair , Hope . 
`` I do not know , '' replied Hope . 
that 's peculiar of you , Hope Leslie ; you never inquire the price of any thing . 
Mrs. Grafton now , for the first time , turned from the articles to their possessor : she was struck with an air of graceful haughtiness in her demeanor , strongly contrasting with the submiss , dejected deportment of the natives whom she was in the habit of seeing , and dropping the moccasins and turning to Hope , she whispered -- `` Best buy a pair , dearie -- by all means buy a pair -- pay her any thing she asks -- best keep peace with them , ` never affront dogs , nor Indians . ' '' 
Hope wanted no urging , but anxious to get rid of the witnesses that embarrassed her , and quick of invention , she directed Jennet to go for her purse , `` which she would find in a certain basket , or drawer , or some where else ; '' and reminded her aunt that she had promised to call in at Mrs. Cotton 's , on her way to lecture , to look at her hyacinths , and that she had no time to lose . 
Jennet obeyed , and Mrs Grafton said , `` that 's true , and it 's thoughtful of you to think of it , Hope ; but , '' she added , lowering her voice , `` I would not like to leave you alone , so I 'll just open the parlour door . '' 
Before Hope could intercept her , she set the door ajar , and through the aperture Magawisca had a perfect view of Everell , who was sitting musing in the window seat . 
An involuntary exclamation burst from her lips ; and then shuddering at this exposure of her feelings , she hastily gathered together the moccasins that were strewn over the floor , dropped a pair at Hope 's feet , and darted away . 
Hope had heard the exclamation and understood it . 
What do you think , Hope ? '' 
Hope paused with a mingled feeling of disappointment and awe ; disappointment that her sister was not there -- and awe inspired by the solemnity of the scene before her -- the spirit-stirring figure of Magawisca -- the duty she was performing -- the flickering light -- the monumental stones -- and the dark shadows that swept over them , as the breeze bowed the tall pines . 
Magawisca was not unconscious of Miss Leslie 's approach ; but she deemed the office in which she was engaged , too sacred to be interrupted . 
She accompanied the movement of her hand with a low chant in her native tongue ; and so sweet and varied were the tones of her voice , that it seemed to Hope they might have been breathed by an invisible spirit . 
When she had finished her work , she leaned her head for a moment against the stake , and then rose and turned to Miss Leslie ; a moonbeam shot across her face ; it was wet with tears , but she spoke in a tranquil voice . 
she said , casting a searching glance around her . 
`` I promised to come alone , '' replied Hope . 
She had but scant time , and short breath ; with that she cursed your race , and she blessed you , Hope Leslie ; her day was ended -- the hand of death pressed her throat , and even then she made me swear to perform her promise to you . '' 
`` And you will , Magawisca , '' cried Hope impetuously ; `` you will give me back my sister . '' 
`` Oh , do not speak to me in these dark sayings , '' replied Hope ; her smooth brow contracting with impatience and apprehension , and her hurried manner and convulsed countenance contrasting strongly with the calmness of Magawisca ; `` what is it you mean ? 
`` She is safe -- she is near to you -- and you shall see her , Hope Leslie . '' 
Oh , if I could once clasp her in my arms , she never should leave me -- she never should be torn from me again . '' 
`` Speak plainer to me , '' cried Hope , in a voice of entreaty that could not be resisted . 
-- she paused , for her quivering lips could not pronounce the words that rose to them . 
Magawisca understood her , and replied . 
`` Yes , Hope Leslie , thy sister is married to Oneco . '' 
exclaimed Hope , shuddering as if a knife had been plunged in her bosom . 
exclaimed Magawisca , recoiling with a look of proud contempt , that showed she reciprocated with full measure , the scorn expressed for her race . 
Long before Magawisca ceased to pour out her indignation , Hope 's first emotion had given place to a burst of tears ; she wept aloud , and her broken utterance of , `` Oh , my sister ! 
emitted but imperfect glimpses of the ruined hopes , the bitter feelings that oppressed her . 
There was a chord in Magawisca 's heart , that needed but the touch of tenderness to respond in harmony ; her pride vanished , and her indignation gave place to sympathy . 
She said in a low soothing voice -- `` Now do not weep thus ; your sister is well with us . 
`` There lies my mother , '' cried Hope , without seeming to have heard Magawisca 's consolations , `` she lost her life in bringing her children to this wild world , to secure them in the fold of Christ . 
There was certainly something thrilling in Magawisca 's faith , and she now succeeded in rivetting Hope 's attention . 
`` Listen to me , '' she said ; `` your sister is of what you call the christian family . 
exclaimed Hope fervently , for she thought that any christian faith was better than none . 
`` Perhaps ye are right , '' said Magawisca , as if she read Hope 's heart ; `` there may be those that need other lights ; but to me , the Great Spirit is visible in the life-creating sun . 
I feel Him here , '' she continued , pressing her hand on her breast , while her face glowed with the enthusiasm of devotion . 
again demanded Hope . 
`` I promise , '' said Hope , with her characteristic precipitancy . 
But hush , '' she said , suddenly stopping , and turning a suspicious eye towards the thicket of evergreens . 
`` It was but the wind , '' said Hope , rightly interpreting Magawisca 's quick glance , and the slight inclination of her head . 
she demanded , with a blended expression of pride and melancholy . 
`` Yes -- yes , Magawisca -- indeed is there , '' replied Hope , for now she thought she had touched the right key . 
Magawisca hid her face in the folds of her mantle , and Hope proceeded with increasing earnestness . 
`` Say no more , Hope Leslie -- say no more , '' exclaimed Magawisca , throwing back the envelope from her face , as if she were ashamed to shelter emotions she ought not to indulge . 
`` I have promised my father -- I have repeated the vow here on my mother 's grave , and if I were to go back from it , those bright witnesses , '' she pointed to the heavens , `` would break their silence . 
Magawisca looked on Hope 's glowing face for a moment , and then shook her head with a melancholy smile . 
`` They tell me , '' she said , `` that no one can look on you and deny you aught ; that you can make old men 's hearts soft , and mould them at your will ; but I have learned to deny even the cravings of my own heart ; to pursue my purpose like the bird that keeps her wing stretched to the toilsome flight , though the sweetest note of her mate recalls her to the nest . 
I do but boast , '' she continued , casting her eyes to the ground . 
No , Hope Leslie , I may not listen to thee . 
Hope saw in the determined manner of Magawisca , that there was no alternative but to accept the boon on her own terms , and she no longer withheld her compliance . 
Magawisca had no objections to venture again within the town ; but then it would be necessary to completely disguise Faith Leslie ; and she hinted that she understood enough of Hope 's English feelings , to know that she would wish to see her sister with the pure tint of her natural complexion . 
Hope had too much delicacy , and too much feeling , even inadvertently to appear to lay much stress on this point ; but the experience of the evening made her feel the difficulty of arranging a meeting , surrounded as she was by vigilant friends , and within the sphere of their observation . 
Suddenly it occurred to her , that Digby , her fast friend , and on more than one occasion her trusty ally , had the superintendence of the Governor 's garden , on an island in the harbor , and within three miles of the town . 
Hope was certain of permission to pass a night there , where she might indulge in an interview with her sister of any length , without hazard of interruption ; and having explained her plan to Magawisca , it received her ready and full acquiescence . 
Before they separated , Hope said , `` you will allow me , Magawisca , to persuade my sister , if I can , to remain with me . '' 
`` Oh yes -- if you can -- but do not hope to persuade her . 
She and my brother are as if one life-chord bound them together ; and besides , your sister can not speak to you and understand you as I do . 
Magawisca observed Hope 's look of disappointment ; and in a voice of pity , she added , `` your sister hath a face that speaketh plainly , what the tongue should never speak , her own goodness . '' 
When these two romantic females had concerted every measure they deemed essential to the certainty and privacy of their meeting , Magawisca bowed her head , and kissed the border of Hope 's shawl , with the reverent delicacy of an oriental salutation ; she then took from beneath her mantle some fragrant herbs , and strewed them over her mother 's grave , then prostrated herself in deep and silent devotion , feeling -LRB- as others have felt on earth thus consecrated -RRB- as if the clods she pressed were instinct with life . 
When this last act of filial love was done , she rose , muffled herself closely in her dark mantle , and departed . 
Hope lingered for a moment . 
`` Mysteriously , '' she said , as her eye followed the noble figure of Magawisca , till it was lost in the surrounding darkness , `` mysteriously have our destinies been interwoven . 
But Hope was soon aware that this was no time for solitary meditation . 
In the interest of her interview with Magawisca , she had been heedless of the gathering storm . 
Hope had no light to guide her , but occasional flashes of lightning , and the candle , whose little beam proceeding from Mr. Cotton 's study window , pierced the dense sheet of rain . 
Hope hurried her steps homewards , and as she passed the knot of evergreens , she fancied she heard a rattling of the boughs , as if there were some struggling within , and a suppressed voice saying , `` hist -- whish . '' 
She paused , and with a resolute step , turned towards the thicket ; `` we have been overheard , '' she thought , `` this generous creature shall not be betrayed . '' 
At this instant a thunder-bolt burst over her head , and the whole earth seemed kindled with one bright illumination . 
She was terrified , and , perhaps , as much convinced by her fears , as her reason , that it was both imprudent , and useless , to make any further investigation , she again bent her quick steps towards home . 
She had scarcely surmounted the fence , which she passed more like a winged spirit , than a fine lady , when Sir Philip Gardiner joined her . 
`` Miss Leslie ! '' 
he exclaimed , as a flash of lightning revealed her person . 
`` Oh , no , no , '' she said , `` the cloak will but encumber me . 
I am already drenched , and I shall be at home directly , '' and she would have left him , but he caught her arm , and gently detained her , while he enveloped her in his cloak . 
`` It should not be a trifle , Miss Leslie , that has kept you out , regardless of this gathering storm , '' Sir Philip said inquiringly . 
Miss Leslie made no reply , and he proceeded . 
`` Neither , '' replied Hope . 
`` I have no fears , '' said Hope . 
`` It 's useless talking , Sir Philip , '' replied Hope ; if that could be deemed a reply , which seemed to have rather an indirect relation to the previous address . 
`` The hail-stones melt as they touch the ground , and my words pass away as soon , I fancy , '' said Hope , with the most provoking nonchalance . 
They both recoiled -- Hope uttered an exclamation of pity . 
`` I cared not for the storm -- I did not feel it , '' replied the lad , in a penetrating voice , which recalled to Miss Leslie all he had said to her , and induced her to check her first impulse to bid him in ; she therefore passed him without any further notice , ascended the steps , and as has been related in the preceding chapter , met Everell in the hall . 
Her father , from the hour of his expulsion from his own dominion , had constantly meditated revenge . 
He felt that Oneco 's volatile unimpressive character was unfit for his purpose , and he permitted him to pursue without intermission , his own pleasure -- to hunt and fish for his ` white bird , ' as he called the little Leslie . 
But Magawisca was the constant companion of her father ; susceptible and contemplative , she soon imbibed his melancholy , and became as obedient to the impulse of his spirit , as the most faithful are to the fancied intimations of the Divinity . 
She was the priestess of the oracle . 
Her tenderness for Everell , and her grateful recollections of his lovely mother , she determined to sacrifice on the altar of national duty . 
Magawisca was necessary to him ; and he submitted to be accompanied by Oneco and his bride , from respect to the dying declaration of Nelema , that his plans could never be accomplished till her promise to Hope Leslie had been redeemed -- till , as she had sworn to her preserver , the sisters had met . 
Magawisca left her companions at an Indian station on the Neponset river , and proceeded herself to Boston , to seek a private interview with Hope Leslie . 
Aware of the necessity of disguising every peculiarity , she unbound her hair from the braids in which it was usually confined , and combed it thick over her forehead , after the fashion of the aborigines in the vicinity of Boston , whom Eliot describes as wearing this ` maiden veil . ' 
She enveloped herself in a blanket that concealed the rich dress which it was her father 's pride , -LRB- and perhaps her pleasure -RRB- that she should wear . 
Thus disguised , and favoured by the kind shadows of twilight , she presented herself at Governor Winthrop 's , and was , as has already appeared , successful in her mission . 
She is the daughter and sole heir of Sir Walter Leslie , who you may remember was noted for his gallantry in that mad expedition of Buckingham to the Isle of Rhe . 
The Leslie , in simplicity or mischief , remarked on my confining myself to fish on Friday -- rebel conscience , in spite of me tinged my cheeks , but thanks to my garb of hypocrisy , panoply of steel never did better service , -- the light thrust glanced off and left me unharmed . 
`` Now the Leslie has a generous rashness , a thoughtless impetuosity , a fearlessness of the sanctimonious dictators that surround her , and a noble contempt of danger that stimulates me at least , to love and enterprise . 
`` My hope is bold , Wilton -- my ambition is to win her heart -- my determinationto possess her hand ; by fair means , if I can , but if fortune is adverse , if , as I sometimes fear , when I shrink from the falcon glance of her bright eye , as if the spear of Ithuriel touched me , if she has already penetrated my disguise , and persists in disregarding my suit , why then , Necessity ! 
He convinced her that their happiness , their safety , and perhaps their lives , depended on their escaping detection ; and after explaining the defeat of his hopes in relation to Morton , he averred that the part of his letter relating to Miss Leslie , was mere badinage , written for his friend 's amusement ; and he concluded with reiterated promises , that he would return with her in the first ship bound to England . 
Rosa was credulous -- at least , she wished to believe -- she was grateful for restored tenderness ; and without daring to confess how nearly she had already betrayed him to Miss Leslie , she promised all the circumspection that Sir Philip required . 
Theweek that succeeded Hope Leslie 's interview with Magawisca , was one of anxiety to most of the members of Governor Winthrop 's family . 
Madam Winthrop was too upright , intentionally to do a wrong to any one ; but , without being herself conscious of it , she was continually setting off the lights of her niece 's character , by what she deemed the shades of Hope Leslie 's . 
Nothing was farther from Miss Leslie 's intention , than any disrespect to a woman whom she had been taught to venerate ; but unfortunately , she would sometimes receive what Madam Winthrop meant for affability , as if it were simply the kindness of an equal ; she had been seen to gape in the midst of the good lady 's most edifying remarks ; and once she ran away to gaze on a brilliant sunset , at the moment Madam Winthrop was condescendingly relating some very important particulars of her early life . 
No one , who did not know that there was a secret and sufficient cause for her restlessness , her seeming indifference to her friends , and to every thing about her , could have escaped the conclusion , that forced itself on Everell 's mind ; that fortune , and beauty , and indulgence , had had their usual and fatal effect on Hope Leslie . 
In the bitterness of his disappointment , he wished he had never returned to have the vision of her ideal perfection expelled from his imagination by the light of truth . 
With the irritable feeling of a lover , he watched the devoted attentions of Sir Philip Gardiner to Hope , which she , almost unconscious of them , received passively , but as Everell thought , favourably . 
Utterly engrossed in one object , she never reflected that there had been any thing in her conduct to excite Everell 's distrust ; and feeling more than ever , the want of that sympathy and undisguised affection which she had always received from him , she was hurt at his altered conduct ; and her manner insensibly conforming to the coldness and constraint of his , he naturally concluded that she designed to repel him , and he would turn from her , to repose in the calm and twilight quiet that was shed about the gentle Esther , whom he knew to be pure , disinterested , humble , and devoted . 
Poor Hope , the subject of his unjust condemnation , was agitated , not only by impatience for the promised meeting with her unfortunate sister , but by fear that some unforeseen circumstance might prevent it . 
Oppressed with these anxieties , the hours rolled heavily on ; and when Friday , the appointed day arrived , it seemed to Hope that an age had intervened since her interview with Magawisca . 
After various delays , which , however trifling , had increased Hope 's nervous impatience , they were on the point of setting forth , when Madam Winthrop , who was not one of the party , came into the parlour , and said , after a slight hesitation , `` I am loath , my young friends , to interfere with what you seem to have set your hearts on -- but really , '' -- she paused . 
asked Hope impatiently . 
Madam Winthrop was not inclined to be spurred by Miss Leslie , and she answered very deliberately , `` I have a feeling as if something were to happen to-day . 
asked Hope , anxious to escape before Madam Winthorp proposed , as she apprehended she was about to do , a postponement of the party . 
`` Yes , all ready , I believe , Miss Leslie , but not alltoo impatient to await a remark I was about to make , namely , Sir Philip , that a party of pleasure is very different from a voyage of duty . '' 
not in the least , Ma'am , '' exclaimed Hope . 
`` Miss Leslie ! '' 
said Madam Winthrop , in a tone of surprise , and then turning her eye to Everell , who was standing next Esther , she said , resuming her measured tone , `` my responsibility is so great to my brother Downing -- I had an uncommon dream about you , Esther , last night -- and if any thing should happen to you -- '' `` If it is me , you are concerned about , aunt , '' said Esther , untying her bonnet , `` I will remain at home , -- do not let me detain you , '' she added , turning to Hope , `` another moment . '' 
Nothing seemed to Hope of any importance , in comparison with the prosecution of her plans , and nodding a pleased assent to Esther , she took her aunt 's arm in readiness to depart . 
His good feelings were interested to compensate for the indifference of Hope . 
`` Miss Leslie has become so sedate of late , '' continued Madam Winthrop , with a very significant smile , `` that I scarcely need request that no unwonted sounds of revelry and mirth may proceed from any member of the governor 's family , which ever has been , as it should be , a pattern of gospel sobriety to the colony . '' 
Mrs. Grafton dropped a bracelet she was clasping on her niece 's arm , but Madam Winthrop 's remark -- half reproof , and half admonition , excited no emotion in Hope , whose heart was throbbing with her own secret anxieties , and who was now in some measure relieved , by Sir Philip making a motion for their departure , by adroitly availing himself of this first available pause , and offering her his arm . 
I think poor Hope will forget how to laugh , if she stays here much longer . 
Honest Cradock , who had taken his favourite station at Miss Leslie 's side , replied , without in the least suspecting the knight 's irony . 
I have heard the walls at Bethel ring with bursts of laughter from Miss Hope , and the thought came to me , -LRB- the Lord forgive me , if I erred therein , -RRB- that it was the natural voice of innocence , and therefore , pleasing to him that made her . '' 
Hope was touched with the pure sentiment of her good tutor , and she involuntarily slipped her arm into his . 
The simple man started as if he had received a blow , and Hope said , `` you did not mean to call Sir Philip a transgressor . '' 
`` Yes , '' said Hope archly , `` it is far easier , as is said in one of your good books , Master Cradock , ` to subscribe to a sentence of universal condemnation , than to confess individual sins . ' '' 
`` What blessed times we have fallen on , '' retorted Sir Philip , `` when youthful beauties , instead of listening to the idle songs of troubadours , or the fantastic flatteries of vagrant knights , or announcing with their ruby lips the rewards of chivalry , are exploring the mines of divinity with learned theologians like Master Cradock , and bringing forth such diamond sentences , as the pithy saying Miss Leslie has quoted . '' 
Sir Philip , '' exclaimed Mrs. Grafton , `` Hope Leslie study theology ! 
you are as mad as a March hare -- all her theology she has learned out of the Bible and common prayer-book , which should always go together , in spite of what the Governor says . 
1I longed to commend the instinct of the little beasts , that knew what good food was ; but every body listened with such a solemn air , and even you , Hope Leslie , who are never afraid to smile , even you , did not move your lips . '' 
`` I did not hear it , '' said Hope . 
`` Yes , '' replied Hope , and a deep blush suffused her cheek . 
She had noticed the offering with pain , not because her friend was preferred , but because it led her mind back to the time when she was the object of all Everell 's little favors , and impressed her with a sense of his altered conduct . 
The tell-tale blush did not escape the watchful eye of Sir Philip , and determined to ascertain if the `` bolt of Cupid , '' had fallen on this `` little western flower , '' he said , `` I perceive Miss Leslie is aware that rose-buds , in the vocabulary of lovers , are made to signify a declaration of the tender passion . '' 
Hope had been moved by Miss Downing 's story , and taking a generous interest in her happiness , she had , with that ardent feeling with which she pursued every object that interested her , resolved to promote it in the only mode by which it could be attained . 
Hope Leslie was shocked , not that she had betrayed her feelings to her companions , but at her own discovery of their existence -- not that they had appeared , but that they were . 
The change had been so gradual , from her childish fondness for Everell , to a more mature sentiment , as to be imperceptible even to herself . 
She made no essay to explain her emotion . 
`` What a miserable nervous way you have fallen into , Hope , '' she said , `` since you was caught out in that storm ; she must have taken an inward cold , Sir Philip . '' 
`` Heat or cold , Hope , '' continued Mrs. Grafton , `` I am determined you shall go through a regular course of medicine ; valerian tea in the morning , and lenitive drops at night . 
Hope has no kind of faith in medicine , Sir Philip , but I can tell her it is absolutely necessary , in the spring of the year , to sweeten the blood . '' 
Sir Philip looked at Hope 's glowing face , and said , `` he thought such blood as mantled in Miss Leslie 's cheek , needed no medical art to sweeten it . '' 
Hope , alike insensible to the good natured efforts of her aunt , and the flatteries of Sir Philip , was mentally resolving to act most heroically ; to expel every selfish feeling from her heart , and to live for the happiness of others . 
He had a thousand questions to ask , and recollections to recall ; and while Everell lingered to listen , and Hope and Esther , from a very natural sympathy , to witness the overflowings of the good fellow 's affectionate heart , their companions left them to stroll about the island . 
As soon as his audience was thus reduced `` it seems but a day , '' he said , `` since you , Mr. Everell , and Miss Leslie , were but children . '' 
said Everell with a suppressed sigh , and venturing a side glance at Hope ; but her face was averted , and he could not see whether Digby had awakened any recollections in her bosom responding to his own . 
Young folks for the most part , are like an April day , clouds and sunshine : there are my young ones , though they look so happy , now they have your English presents , Mr. Everell , yet they must now and then fall to their little battles ; show out the natural man , as the ministers say ; but with you and Miss Hope , it was always sunshine : it was not strange either , seeing you were all in all to one another , after that terrible sweep off at Bethel . 
`` I do n't know but you might , Mr. Everell , but I do n't believe you would ; things would naturally have taken another course after Miss Hope came among us ; and many a time , I thought it was well it was as it was , for I believe it would have broken Magawisca 's heart , to have been put in that kind of eclipse by Miss Leslie 's coming between you and her . 
If they had a meaning , they seemed also to have a voice , and they roused Hope Leslie 's resolution . 
Some pride might have aided her , but it was maidenly pride , and her feelings were as near to pure generosity as our infirm nature can approach . 
`` Digby , '' she said , `` it was quite natural for you both to think and speak of Mr. Everell 's wedding ; we are to have it , and that right soon , I hope ; you have only mistaken the bride ; and as neither of the parties will speak to set you right , '' and she glanced her eyes from Esther to Everell , `` why , I must . '' 
Hope flew to her side , took her hand , placed it in Everell 's , threw her arm around Esther , kissed her cheek , and darted out of the house . 
Thus had Hope Leslie , by rashly following her first generous impulses , by giving to `` an unproportioned thought its act , '' effected that , which the avowed tenderness of Miss Downing , the united instances of Mr. Fletcher and Governor Winthrop , and the whole colony and world beside , could never have achieved . 
The eastern extremity of the island being sheltered by the high ground on the west , was most favourable for horticultural experiments , and had , therefore been planted with fruit trees and grape vines ; here Hope had retired , and was flattering herself she was secure from interruption and observation , when she was startled by a footstep , and perceived Sir Philip Gardiner approaching . 
`` I have just been vainly seeking you , where I most unluckily broke in upon the lovers , at a moment of supreme happiness , if I may judge from the faces of both parties ; but what are you doing with that vine , Miss Leslie ? '' 
he continued , for Hope had stooped over a grape vine , which she seemed anxiously arranging . 
`` I am merely looking at it , '' she said ; `` it seems drooping . '' 
The knight 's emphasis and look gave a particular significance to his words ; but Miss Leslie , determined to take them only in their literal sense , coldly replied , `` that it was not the part of wisdom to relinquish the attempt to cultivate so valuable a production , till a fair experiment had been made . '' 
`` Very true , Miss Leslie . 
`` Your analogy does not suit the case , Sir Philip , '' replied Miss Leslie coldly , `` but I marvel not at your ignorance of my friend ; the waters gushed from the rock only at the prophet 's touch '' -- Hope hesitated ; she felt that her rejoinder was too personal , and she added , in a tone of calmer defence , `` surely she who has shown herself capable of the fervour of devotion , and the tenderness of friendship , may be susceptible of an inferior passion . '' 
`` Et pour verit vous record Dieu et amour sont d'un accord , Dieu aime sens et honorance , Amour ne l' a pas en viltance ; Sir Philip rose mortified and disconcerted , and suffered Miss Leslie to walk slowly away from him without uttering a word to urge or defend his suit . 
He would have been better pleased if he had excited more emotion of any sort ; he thought he had never seen her , on any occasion , so calm and indifferent . 
she said , picking up a bracelet Hope had unconsciously dropped , `` I see who has been here -- I thought so -- but , Sir Philip , you look downcast . '' 
Sir Philip , accustomed as he was to masquerade , had not been able to veil his feelings even from the good dame , whose perceptions were neither quick nor keen ; but what was defective in them , she made up in abundant good nature . 
`` Now , Sir Philip , '' she said , `` there is nothing but the wind so changeful as a woman 's mind ; that 's what every body says , and there is both good and bad in it : for if the wind is dead ahead , we may look for it to turn . '' 
Well , to begin at the beginning , you must know I had a fan -- a French fan , I think it was -- there were two cupids painted on it ; and exactly in the middle , between them , a figure of hope -- I do n't mean Hope Leslie , '' she continued , for she saw the knight 's eye suddenly glancing towards the head of the walk , past which Miss Leslie was just walking , in earnest conversation with Everell Fletcher . 
Sir Philip felt the urgent necessity , at this juncture of affairs , of preventing , if possible , a confidential communication between Miss Leslie and Fletcher ; and his face expressed unequivocally that he was no longer listening to Mrs. Grafton . 
`` Do you hear , Sir Philip , '' she continued , `` I do n't mean Hope Leslie . '' 
`` So I understand , Madam , '' replied the knight , keeping his face towards her , but receding rapidly in the direction Miss Leslie had passed , till almost beyond the sound of her voice , he laid his hand on his heart , bowed , and disappeared . 
When Sir Philip had emerged from the walk , he perceived the parties he pursued at no great distance from him , and was observed by Hope , who immediately , and manifestly to avoid him , motioned to Everell to take a path which diverged from that which led to the boat , to which they were now all summoned by a loud call from the boatmen . 
exclaimed Hope , in a tone that indicated surprise and wounded feeling . 
`` Pardon me , Miss Leslie . '' 
`` Miss Leslie again ! 
`` I would , Hope : my heart has but one language for you , but I dare not trust my lips . 
My own destiny is fixed -- fixed by your act , Hope ; heaven forgive me for saying so . 
The truth flashed on Hope ; she was beloved -- she loved again -- and she had rashly dashed away the happiness within her grasp . 
Her head became dizzy ; she stopped , and gathering her veil over her face , she leaned against a tree for support . 
Everell grievously misunderstood her agitation . 
`` Hope , '' he said , with a faltering voice , `` I have been slow to believe that you could thus throw away your heart . 
Hope , you have cast away my earthly happiness , trifle not with your own . '' 
Hope perceived that events , conspiring with her own thoughtless conduct , had rivetted Everell 's mistake -- but it was now irremediable . 
There was no middle path between a passive submission to her fate , and a full , and now useless explanation . 
She was aware that plighted friendship and troth were staked on the resolution of the moment ; and when Everell added , `` Oh , I have been convinced against my will -- against my hopes -- what visions of possible felicity have you dispersed -- what dreams ! '' 
-- `` Dreams -- dreams all , '' she exclaimed , interrupting him , and throwing back her veil , she discovered her face drenched with tears . 
`` Hark -- they call you ; let the past be forgotten ; and for the future -- the future , Everell -- all possible felicity does await you , if you are true to yourself ; true to -- '' her voice faltered , but she articulated , `` Esther , '' and turning away , she escaped from his sight , as she would have rushed from the brink of a precipice . 
thought Everell , as his eye and heart followed her , with the fervid feeling of love , `` Oh , that one , who seems all angel , should have so much of woman 's weakness ! '' 
`` Then he does remain with her , '' concluded Everell ; and the conviction was forced more strongly than ever on his mind , that Hope had lent a favourable ear to Sir Philip 's suit . 
This was the language of his affection ; but we must confess , that the ardor of his confidence was abated by Miss Leslie 's apparently wide departure from delicate reserve , in permitting -LRB- as he believed she had -RRB- her professed admirer to remain on the island with her . 
Not one envious or repining thought intruded into the heaven of Hope Leslie 's mind . 
Hope was longer absorbed in her reverie than perhaps was quite consistent with her philosophy ; and when she was roused from it by Digby 's voice , she blushed from the consciousness that her thoughts had been too long withdrawn from the purpose of her visit to the island . 
Digby came to say that his wife 's supper-table was awaiting Miss Leslie . 
Hope embraced the opportunity , as they walked together towards his dwelling , to make her arrangements for the evening . 
`` Digby , '' she said , `` I have something to confide to you , but you must ask me no questions . '' 
`` That 's crossing human nature , '' replied the good fellow ; `` but I think I can swim against the current for you , Miss Hope . '' 
`` Yes , Miss Hope , I know your heart always linked into such things ; but it it will be heathen Greek to my wife -- so you must make out a better reason for her . '' 
I always said , Miss Hope , it was a pure mercy you chose the right way , for you always had yours . '' 
No , no , Miss Hope , I watch the motions of the straws -- I know which way the wind blows . 
Hope 's mind was pre-occupied , and she found it difficult to listen to Digby 's speculations with interest , or to respond with animation ; but she was too benignant to lose herself in sullen abstraction , and when they arrived at the cottage , she roused her faculties to amuse the children , and to listen to the mother 's stories of their ominous smartness . 
She commended the good wife 's milk and cakes , and sat for an half hour after the table was removed , talking of the past , and brightening the future prospects of her good friends , with predictions of their children 's prosperity and respectability -- predictions , which , Digby afterwards said , the sweet young lady 's bounty brought to pass . 
`` Then , '' said Hope , `` I will take a walk round the island , and do not you , Betsy , sit up for me . '' 
The night air was unwholesome ; and though the sky overhead was clear , yet she had heard distant thunder ; the beach birds had been in flocks on shore all the day ; and the breakers on the east side of the island made a boding sound . 
As Hope passed around a ledge of rocks , she fancied she saw a shadow cast by a figure that seemed flying before her . 
`` They are here already , '' she thought , and hastened forward , expecting to catch a glimpse of them as soon as she should turn the angle of the rock -- but no figure appeared ; and though Hope imagined she heard stones rattling , as if displaced by hurried steps , she was soon convinced the sound was accidental . 
Alive only to one expectation , she seated herself , without any apprehension , to await in this solitude the coming of her sister . 
The moon rose unclouded , and sent her broad stream of light across the beautiful bay , kindling in her beams the islands that gemmed it , and disclosing , with a dim indefinite light , the distant town rising over this fair domain of sea and land -- hills , heights , jutting points , and islands , then unknown to fame , but now consecrated in domestic annals , and illustrious in the patriot 's story . 
At this first assurance , that she really beheld this loved , lost sister , Hope uttered a scream of joy ; but when , at a second glance , she saw her in her savage attire , fondly leaning on Oneco 's shoulder , her heart died within her ; a sickening feeling came over her , an unthought of revolting of nature ; and instead of obeying the first impulse , and springing forward to clasp her in her arms , she retreated to the cliff , leaned her head against it , averted her eyes , and pressed her hands on her heart , as if she would have bound down her rebel feelings . 
Magawisca 's voice aroused her . 
`` Hope Leslie , '' she said , `` take thy sister 's hand . '' 
Hope stretched out her hand , without lifting her eyes ; but when she felt her sister 's touch , the energies of nature awoke , she threw her arms around her , folded her to her bosom , laid her cheek on hers , and wept as if her heart would burst in every sob . 
Mary -LRB- we use the appellative by which Hope had known her sister , -RRB- remained passive in her arms . 
Her eye was moistened , but she seemed rather abashed and confounded , than excited ; and when Hope released her , she turned towards Oneco with a look of simple wonder . 
Hope again threw her arm around her sister , and intently explored her face for some trace of those infantine features that were impressed on her memory . 
she exclaimed , and kissed her cheek again and again . 
`` Look at me , Mary -- speak to me , '' continued Hope . 
Hope , in the impetuosity of her feelings , had forgotten that Magawisca had forewarned her not to indulge the expectation that her sister could speak to her ; and the melancholy truth , announced by her own lips , seemed to Hope to open a new and impassable gulf between them . 
She wrung her hands ; `` Oh what shall I do ! 
she exclaimed . 
Magawisca now advanced to her , and said in a compassionate tone , `` Let me be thy interpreter , Hope Leslie ; and be thou more calm . 
`` We hold truth to be the health of the soul , '' she said : `` thou mayest speak , maiden , without fear that I will abate one of thy words . '' 
She drew her sister to a rock , and they sat down together . 
Hope knew not how to address one so near to her by nature , so far removed by habit and education . 
She thought that if Mary 's dress , which was singularly and gaudily decorated , had a less savage aspect , she might look more natural to her ; and she signed to her to remove the mantle she wore , made of birds ' feathers , woven together with threads of the wild nettle . 
The removal of the mantle , instead of the effect designed , only served to make more striking the aboriginal peculiarities ; and Hope , shuddering and heart-sick , made one more effort to disguise them by taking off her silk cloak and wrapping it close around her sister . 
`` Oh tell her , '' said Hope to Magawisca , `` that I want once more to see her in the dress of her own people -- of her own family -- from whose arms she was torn to be dragged into captivity . '' 
A faint smile curled Magawisca 's lip , but she interpreted faithfully Hope 's communication , and Mary 's reply , ``` she does not like the English dress , ' she says . '' 
`` Ask her , '' said Hope , `` if she remembers the day when the wild Indians sprung upon the family at Bethel , like wolves upon a fold of lambs ? 
Hope groaned aloud . 
`` Ask her , '' she continued with unabated eagerness , `` if she remembers when we played together , and read together , and knelt together at our mother 's feet ; when she told us of the God that made us , and the Saviour that redeemed us ? '' 
Every motive Hope offered was powerless , every mode of entreaty useless , and she leaned her head despondently on Mary 's shoulder . 
Hope 's hat had slipped back , and her rich brown tresses fell about her neck and face ; her full eye was intently fixed on Mary , and her cheek glowing with impassioned feeling . 
Hope 's hand was lying on her sister 's lap , and a brilliant diamond ring caught Mary 's attention . 
Hope perceived this , and instantly drew it from her own finger and placed it on Mary 's ; `` and here is another -- and another -- and another , '' she cried , making the same transfer of all her rings . 
-- Oh , Hope Leslie , I had better thoughts of thee . '' 
Magawisca faithfully repeated all the motives Hope had urged , while Hope herself clasped her sister 's hand , and looked in her face with a mute supplication , more earnest than words could express . 
Hope felt her hand tremble in hers . 
Mary , for the first time , bent towards her , and laid her cheek to Hope 's . 
Hope uttered a scream of delight , `` Oh , she does not refuse , she will stay with me , '' she exclaimed . 
`` Keep them -- keep them , '' said Hope , bursting into tears , if `` we must be cruelly parted again , they will sometimes speak to you of me . '' 
Oneco rose , `` I like not this light , '' he said , `` we must begone , we have redeemed our promise , '' and he took Hope 's cloak from the ground , and gave it to her as a signal that the moment of separation had arrived . 
`` Oh , stay one moment longer , '' cried Hope . 
Hope now for the first time observed there was an Indian in the canoe , wrapped in skins , and listlessly waiting in a recumbent position the termination of the scene . 
said she , shuddering at the thought of the bloody scenes with which he was associated in her mind ; but before her inquiry was answered , the subject of it sprang to his feet , and uttering an exclamation of surprise , stretched his hand towards the town . 
Every eye turned inquiringly to Hope . 
`` It is nothing , '' she said to Magawisca , `` but the light that is often kindled on Beacon-Hill to guide the ships into the harbour . 
Whatever trust her visitors might have reposed in Hope 's good faith , they were evidently alarmed by an appearance which they did not think sufficiently accounted for ; and Oneco hearing , or imagining he heard , approaching oars , said in his own language to Magawisca , `` we have no time to lose -- I will not permit my white bird to remain any longer within reach of the net . '' 
Magawisca assented : `` We must go , '' she said ; `` we must not longer hazard our father 's life . '' 
said Hope , imploringly to Magawisca , and she drew her a few paces from the shore , and knelt down with her , and in a half articulate prayer , expressed the tenderness and sorrow of her soul , and committed her sister to God . 
Mary understood her action , and feeling that their separation was for ever , nature for a moment asserted her rights ; she returned Hope 's embrace , and wept on her bosom . 
While the sisters were thus folded in one another 's arms , a loud yell burst from the savages ; Magawisca caught Mary by the arms , and Hope turning , perceived that a boat filled with armed men , had passed the projecting point of land , and borne in by the tide , it instantly touched the beach , and in another instant Magawisca and Mary were prisoners . 
Hope saw the men were in the uniform of the Governor 's guard . 
Alarmed by the rapid approach of the storm , he was seeking Miss Leslie ; when he learned her fate from Sir Philip 's hurried communication , he uttered a cry of despair . 
He did so ; and , agitated as he was with fear and despair for Miss Leslie , he did not fail to greet Magawisca , as one to whom all honour was due . 
She heeded him not -- she seemed scarcely conscious of the cries of Faith Leslie , who was weeping like a child , and clinging to her . 
The treachery that had betrayed her wrapt her soul in indignation , and nothing roused her but the blasts of wind and flashes of lightning , that seemed to her the death-knell of her father . 
`` May not Magawisca , '' she said , `` share our apartment , Hope 's and mine ; she will then , in safe custody await your further pleasure . '' 
`` Hope Leslie ! '' 
`` She was the decoy bird , '' replied Magawisca calmly ; `` and she too is caught in the net . '' 
A bustle ensued -- every other feeling was now lost in concern for Hope Leslie ; and Magawisca was separated from her weeping and frightened companion , and conducted away without further opposition ; while the two Fletchers , as if life and death hung on every instant , were calling on the Governor to aid them in the way and means of pursuit . 
Hope Leslie , on being forced into the canoe , sunk down , overpowered with terror and despair . 
She was roused from this state by Oneco 's loud and vehement appeals to his father , who only replied by a low inarticulate murmur , which seemed rather an involuntary emission of his own feelings , than a response to Oneco . 
She understood nothing but the name of Magawisca , which he often repeated , and always with a burst of vindictive feeling , as if every other emotion were lost in wrath at the treachery that had wrested her from him . 
As the apparent contriver , and active agent in this plot , Hope felt that she must be the object of detestation , and the victim of vengeance ; and all that she had heard or imagined of Indian cruelties , was present to her imagination ; and every savage passion seemed to her to be embodied in the figure of the old chief , when she saw his convulsed frame and features , illuminated by the fearful lightning that flashed athwart him . 
`` It is possible , '' she thought , `` that Oneco may understand me ; '' and to him she protested her innocence , and vehemently besought his compassion . 
Hope cast a despairing eye on her receding home , which she could still mark through the mirky atmosphere , by the lurid flame that blazed on Beacon-hill . 
Hope , even in her present extremity , forgot her fear and danger in the sublimity of the storm . 
When the wild flashes wrapped the bay in light , and revealed to sight the little bark leaping over the `` yesty waves , '' the stern figure of the old man , the graceful form of Oneco , and Hope Leslie , her eye upraised , with an instinctive exaltation of feeling , she might have been taken for some bright vision from another sphere , sent to conduct her dark companions through the last tempestuous passage of life . 
But the triumphs of her spirit were transient ; mortal danger pressed on life . 
Hope was , for a moment , stunned . 
Oneco leaped out , dragged his father 's lifeless body to the turf , and renewed and redoubled his efforts to restore him ; and Hope , moved by an involuntary sympathy with the distress of his child , stooped down and chafed the old man 's palms . 
Hope rose to her feet , and seeing Mononotto unconscious , and Oneco entirely absorbed in his own painful anxieties and efforts , the thought occurred to her , that she might escape from her captors . 
She looked at the little bark : her strength , small as it was , might avail to launch it again ; and she might trust the same Providence that had just delivered her from peril , to guide her in safety over the still turbulent waters . 
But a danger just escaped , is more fearful than one untried ; and she shrunk from adventuring alone on the powerful element . 
If she could gain a few moments before she was missed by Oneco , it was possible she might find protection and safety . 
She did not stop to deliberate ; but casting one glance at the brightening heavens , and ejaculating a prayer for aid , and ascertaining by one look at Oneco that he did not observe her , she bounded away . 
She fancied she heard steps pursuing her ; but she pressed on without once looking back , or faltering , till she reached a slight elevation , whence she perceived , at no great distance from her , a light placed on the ground ; and on approaching a little nearer , she saw a man lying beside it ; and at a few paces from him several others stretched on the grass , and , as she thought , sleeping . 
She now advanced cautiously and timidly , till she was near enough to conclude that they were a company of sailors , who had been indulging in a lawless revel . 
While Hope shuddered at the sight of these brutalized wretches , and thought any fate would be better than `` To meet the rudeness and swilled insolence Of such late wassailers . '' 
Hope stood near him , but she stood perfectly still ; for she knew from his imbecile smile , and half articulated words , that she had nothing to fear . 
While Hope hesitated for an instant , whether again to expose herself to the thraldom from which she had with such joy escaped , one of the other men , either aroused by his comrade 's voice , or having outslept the fumes of the liquor , started up , and , on perceiving her , rubbed his eyes , and stared as if he doubted whether she were a vision of his sleep or a reality . 
Hope 's first impulse was to fly ; but , though confused and alarmed , she was aware that escape would be impossible if he chose to pursue , and that her only alternative was to solicit his compassion . 
`` Friend , '' she said , in a fearful , tremulous voice , `` I come to beg your aid . '' 
`` By the lord Harry , she speaks , '' exclaimed the fellow , interrupting her -- `` she is a woman -- wake boys -- wake ! '' 
`` If ye have the soul of a man , '' said Hope imploringly , `` protect me -- convey me to Boston . 
`` There 's no reward could pay for you , honey , '' replied the fellow , advancing towards her . 
she cried ; but the man continued to approach with a horrid leer on his face . 
she screamed , and rushed towards the water . 
The wretch was daunted ; he paused but for an instant , then calling on his comrades to join him , they all , hooting and shouting , pursued her . 
Hope now felt that death was her only deliverance ; if she could but reach the waves that she saw heaving and breaking on the shore -- if she could but bury herself beneath them . 
But though she flew as if she were borne on the wings of the wind , her pursuers gained on her . 
The foremost was so near , that she expected at every breath his hand would grasp her , when his foot stumbled , and he fell headlong , and as he fell , he snatched her cloak . 
By a desperate effort she extricated herself from his hold , and again darted forward . 
She heard him vociferate curses , and understood he was unable to rise . 
She cast one fearful glance behind her -- she had gained on the horrid crew . 
I may escape them , ' she thought ; and she pressed on with as much eagerness to cast away life , as ever was felt to save it . 
As she drew near the water 's edge , she perceived a boat attached to an upright post that had been driven into the earth at the extremity of a narrow stone pier . 
A thought like inspiration flashed into her mind : she ran to the end of the pier , leaped into the boat , uncoiled the rope that attached it to the post , and seizing an oar , pushed it off . 
There was a strong tide ; and the boat , as if instinct with life , and obedient to her necessities , floated rapidly from the shore . 
Her pursuers had now reached the water 's edge , and finding themselves foiled , some vented their spite in jeers and hoarse laughs , and others in loud and bitter curses . 
Hope felt that heaven had interposed for her , and sinking on her knees , she clasped her hands , and breathed forth her soul in fervent thanksgivings . 
Whilst she was thus absorbed , a man , who had been lying in the bottom of the boat , unobserved by her , and covered by various outer garments , which he had so disposed as to shelter himself from the storm , lifted up his head , and looked at her with mute amazement . 
When the tempest abated , he had fallen asleep , his imagination probably in an excited state ; and on awaking , and seeing Hope in an attitude of devotion , he very naturally mistook her for a celestial visitant . 
He spoke in his native tongue , of which Hope fortunately knew enough to comprehend him , and to frame a phrase in return . 
The earnestness of his countenance was a sure pledge of his sincerity ; and Hope was half inclined to turn his superstition to her own advantage ; but his devotion approached so near to worship , that she dared not ; and she said , with the intention of dissipating his illusion , `` I am not , my friend , what you imagine me to be . '' 
Hope shook her head . 
`` I am not any of these , '' said Hope with a smile , which the catholic 's pious zeal extorted from her . 
and he again knelt at her feet and crossed himself . 
Antonio received the box as if it contained the freedom of Paradise , and replacing it in his bosom , he crossed himself again and again , repeating his invocations till his saint , apprehensive that in his ecstasy he would lose all remembrance of the high office for which she had selected him , gently reminded him that it was the duty of the faithful to pass promptly from devotion to obedience ; on this hint he rose , took up the oars , and exercised his strength and skill with such exemplary fidelity , that in less than two hours , his boat touched the pier which Hope designated as the point where she would disembark . 
Antonio bowed in token of obedience , and as long as Hope saw him , he remained in an attitude of profound homage . 
Our heroine 's elastic spirit , ever ready to rise when pressure was removed , had enabled her to sustain her extempore character with some animation , but as soon as she had parted from Antonio , and was no longer stimulated to exertion by the fear that his illusion might be prematurely dissipated , she felt that her strength had been over-taxed by the strange accidents and various perils of the evening . 
Her garments were wet and heavy , and at every step , she feared another would be impossible . 
Her head became giddy , and faintness and weariness , to her , new and strange sensations , seemed to drag her to the earth . 
She looked and listened in vain for some human being to call to her assistance : the streets were empty and silent ; and unable to proceed , she sunk down on the steps of a warehouse , shut her eyes , and laid down her head to still its throbbings . 
She had not remained thus many minutes , when she was started by a voice saying , `` Ha ! 
Hope looked up , and perceived she was addressed by Sir Philip Gardiner 's page . 
She had repeatedly seen him since their first meeting , but occupied as she had been with objects of intense interest to her , she thought not of their first singular interview , excepting when it was recalled by the supposed boy 's keen , and as she fancied , angry glances . 
Hope Leslie was in no condition to note these particulars ; but she was struck with his haggard and wretched appearance , and was alarmed when she saw him lay his hand on the hilt of a dagger that gleamed from beneath the folds of his vest . 
asked Hope , `` leave him and return to your friends . '' 
said Hope , losing every other thought in compassion for the unhappy boy ; and some notion of his real character and relation to Sir Philip darting into her mind , `` then leave this wretched man , and trust thyself to heaven . '' 
He paused for a moment , and looked eagerly on Hope , as if for some word of encouragement ; but she made no reply , and he burst into a passionate flood of tears , and wrung his hands , saying , `` Oh , yes , it is -- I know it is foolish and sinful , and I try to be penitent . 
`` These are indeed useless vows , and idle thoughts , '' said Hope . 
exclaimed the boy , grasping her gown as she rose to depart ; `` not to-morrow -- I hate the light of day -- I can not go to that great house -- I have no longer courage to meet the looks of the happy , and answer their idle questions ; stay now , lady , for the love of heaven ! 
Hope had no longer the power of deliberation , she did not even hear the last entreaty . 
At the first movement she made , the sensation of giddiness returned , every object seemed to swim before her , and she sunk , fainting , into Roslin 's arms . 
He carefully sustained his burden , and while he pressed his lips to Hope 's cold brow , with an undefinable sensation of joy that he might thus approach angelic purity , he listened eagerly to the sound of footsteps , and as they came nearer , he recognised the two Fletchers , with a company of gentlemen , guards , and sailors , whom , with the Governor 's assistance , they had hastily collected to go in pursuit of our heroine . 
He , as our readers well know , could give no further explanation of the state in which Miss Leslie was found ; indeed , her friends scarcely waited for any . 
Everell wrapped her in his cloak , and assisted by his father , carried her in his arms to the nearest habitation , whence she was conveyed , as soon as a carriage could be obtained , to Governor Winthrop 's . 
Sir Philip had heard the rumour of a conspiracy among the natives ; and when he saw Magawisca 's extreme anxiety to secure a clandestine interview with Miss Leslie , the probable reason for her secresy at once occurred to him . 
But might he not risk incurring Miss Leslie 's displeasure by this inter-position in her affairs , and thus forfeit the object of all his present thoughts and actions ? 
He saw that she yielded reluctantly , and because she had no alternative , to Magawisca 's imposition of secresy . 
With her romantic notions , it was most probable that she would hold her promise inviolate ; but would she not be bound in everlasting gratitude to him , who by an ingenious manuvre should , without in the least involving her honour , secure the recovery of her sister ? 
To Miss Leslie he would appear solely actuated by zeal for her happiness ; to the Governor , by devotion to the safety and welfare of the commonwealth . 
Accordingly , on the following Monday morning , he solicited a private interview with the magistrates , and deposed before them , `` that on returning to his lodgings on Saturday night , he had seen Miss Leslie enter the burying-ground alone ; that believing she had gone to visit some spot consecrated by the interment of a friend , and knowing the ardent temper of the young lady , he feared she might forget , in the indulgence of her feelings , the lateness of the hour . 
It would be vain to attempt to describe the various emotions of Governor Winthrop 's family at the return of Hope Leslie . 
Mrs. Grafton , who had been transported with joy at the unlooked for recovery of Faith Leslie , was carried to the extreme of despair , when she saw the lifeless body of her beloved niece borne to her apartment . 
A delirious fever succeeded to unconsciousness ; and for three days Hope Leslie 's friends hung over her in the fear that every hour would be her last . 
On the fourth morning , Hope 's fever abated ; her incoherent ravings ceased , and she sunk , for the first time , into a tranquil sleep . 
But these were but transient emotions : her devotion to Hope was too sincere and unremitting to afford occasion of reproach even to her watchful and accusing conscience . 
With what eagerness he has hung on my words when I spoke of Hope ! 
If I were in Hope 's condition , would he feel thus ? 
Everell , alarmed by the unwonted noise , instinctively opened the door -- Hope awoke from her profound sleep , and drew aside the curtain -- she looked bewildered ; but it was no longer the wildness of fever : thronging and indistinct recollections oppressed her ; but after an instant , a perfect consciousness of the past and the present returned ; she covered her eyes , and sunk back on the pillow , murmuring , `` thank God ! '' 
Then , after allowing Everell to press her hand to his lips , she closed the door , and returned to Hope 's bedside . 
Hope again put aside the bed-curtain -- `` Is not my sister here ? '' 
she asked ; `` she must be here , and yet I can scarcely separate my dreams from the strange accidents of that night . '' 
`` She is here , safe and well , my dear Hope ; but for the present , you must be content not to see her ; you have been very ill , and need perfect rest . '' 
Esther hesitated -- but seeing Hope 's lip quivering with apprehension , and fearing the effects , in her weak state , of any new agitation , she , for the first time in her life , condescended to an equivocation , solacing herself with thinking that she ought to believe that perfectly right which her uncle Winthrop appointed : she said , `` Magawisca has had a merited reception -- now ask no more questions , Hope , but compose yourself again to sleep . '' 
If Hope had had the will , she had not the power to disobey , for nature will not be rifled of her dues . 
`` Hope Leslie ! 
The knight opportunely bethought himself of having heard Magawisca during her interview with Hope Leslie , allude to the Romish religion ; he took a crucifix from his bosom and pressed it to his lips . 
He soon became passionately enamoured of Hope Leslie , and pursued her with a determined , unwavering resolution , that , vacillating as he had always been , astonished himself . 
But if it did , what girl of Hope Leslie 's spirit , he asked himself , would remain attached to a drivelling fellow , who , from complaisance to the wishes of prosing old men , had preferred to her such a statue of formality and puritanism as Esther Downing ? 
and Everell removed , Sir Philip feared no other competitor ; for he counted for nothing those gentlemen who might aspire to Miss Leslie 's hand , but whose strict obedience to the canons of puritanism left them , as he thought , few of the qualities that were likely to interest a romantic imagination . 
For himself , determined not to jeopard his success by wearing his sanctimonious mask to Hope , he played the magician with two faces , and to her he was the gay and gallant chevalier ; his formality , his preciseness , and every badge and insignia of the puritan school , were dropped , and he talked of love and poetry like any carpet knight of those days , or drawing-room lover of our own . 
From her own confessions , Sir Philip learned how far she had divulged her sorrows to Hope Leslie ; and from that moment , he meditated some mode of secretly and suddenly ridding himself of her ; and finally , determined on the project which , as we have seen , was wofully defeated ; and he was compelled to retreat from Magawisca 's prison , with the tormenting apprehension that he might himself fall into the pit he had digged . 
Hope entered the parlour leaning on Esther 's arm . 
Hope with natural frankness gave him her hand , and all the blood in her heart seemed to gush into her pale cheeks , but neither did she speak . 
After the meal was finished , and the Governor had returned thanks , in which he inserted a clause expressive of the general gratitude `` for the mercies that had been vouchsafed to the maiden near and dear to many present , in that she had been led safely through perils by water , by land , and by sickness , '' Madame Winthrop kindly insisted that Hope should occupy her easy-chair , but Hope declined the honour , and seating herself on the window-seat , motioned to her sister to come and sit by her . 
The poor girl obeyed , but without any apparent interest , and without even seeming conscious of the endearing tenderness with which Hope stroked back her hair , and kissed her cheek . 
she asked , appealing to her guardian . 
In the first place , I gave her all her old play-things , that you saved so carefully , Hope , and shed so many tears over , and at first they did seem to pleasure her . 
She looked them over and over , and I could see by the changes of her countenance as she took up one and another , that some glimmerings of past times came over her ; but as ill luck would have it , there was among the rest , in a little basket , a string of bird 's eggs , which Oneco had given her at Bethel . 
I remembered it well , and so did she , for as soon as she saw it , she dropped every thing else , and burst into tears . '' 
Everell , who stood by his father , turned and walked to the other extremity of the apartment ; and Hope involuntarily passed her hand hastily over her brow ; as she did so , she looked up and saw Esther 's eye fixed on her . 
Hope , my dear , you have no idea what a non compos mentis she has got to be . 
you talk like a simpleton , Hope . 
I suppose you would let her wear that string of all coloured shells round her neck , would you not , '' she asked , drawing aside Faith 's mantle , and showing the savage ornament , `` instead of that beautiful rainbow necklace of mine , which I have offered to her in place of it ? '' 
`` Now that is peculiar of you , Hope . 
Hope perceived there was something attached to the necklace , and on a closer inspection , which her position enabled her to make , she saw it was a crucifix ; and dreading lest her sister should be exposed to a new source of persecution , she interposed : `` Let her have her own way at present , I pray you , aunt : she may have some reason for preferring those shells that we do not know ; and if she has not , I see no great harm in her preferring bright shells to bright stones ; at any rate , for the present we had best leave her to herself , and say nothing at all to her about her dress or ornaments . '' 
`` Well -- very well , take your own way , Miss Hope Leslie . '' 
Hope smiled -- `` Nay , aunt , '' she said , `` I can not be MissHope Leslie till I get quite well again . '' 
`` If Miss Esther Downing , '' she added , lowering her voice , `` had told me to say nothing of dress and ornaments , I should not have been surprised ; but it is an unheard of simpleness for you , Hope . 
`` You strangely dishonor your memory , mistress Grafton , or Hope 's noble mother , '' said the elder Fletcher ; `` methinks I have heard you often say that Alice Fletcher had no taste for these vanities . '' 
Hope felt , and her quick eye saw , that her aunt was running on sadly at her own expense ; and to produce an effect similar to the painter , when , by his happy art , he shifts his lights , throwing defects into shadow , and bringing out beauties , she said , `` You are very little like your friend , lady Penyvre , dear aunt , for I am certain , if , as you feared , I had lost my life the other day , all the mourning in the king 's realm would not have turned your thoughts from trouble . '' 
`` No , Hope , touch you , touch my life ; but then , '' she added , lowering her voice for Hope 's ear only , `` I ca n't bear to have you give in to this outcry against dress ; we have preaching and prophesying enough , the Lord knows , without your taking it up . '' 
Lights were now ordered , and after the bustle , made by the ladies drawing around the table , and arranging their work , was over , Governor Winthrop said , `` if your strength is equal to the task , Miss Leslie , we would gladly hear the particulars of your marvellous escape , of which Esther has been able to give us but a slight sketch ; though enough to make us all admire at the wonderful Providence that brought you safely through . '' 
The elder Fletcher , really apprehensive for Hope 's health , and still more apprehensive that she might , in her fearless frankness , discredit herself with the Governor , by disclosing all the particulars of her late experience , which he had already heard from her lips , and permitted to pass uncensured , interposed , and hoped to avert the evil , by begging that the relation might be deferred . 
But Hope insisted that she felt perfectly well , and began by saying , ` she doubted not her kind friends had made every allowance for the trouble she had occasioned them . 
She was conscious that much evil had proceeded from the rash promise of secresy she had given . ' 
She forbore to name Magawisca , on her sister 's account , who was still sitting by her ; the Governor , by a significant nod , expressed that he comprehended her ; and she went on to say , ` that she trusted she had been forgiven for that , and for all the petulant and childish conduct of the week that followed it . ' 
`` I scarcely recollect any thing of those days , that then seemed to me interminable , '' she said , `` but that I tried to mask my troubled spirit with a laughing face , and in spite of all my efforts I was rather cross than gay . 
Madam Winthrop , all astonishment at Hope 's exemplary humility and deference , graces she had not appeared to abound in , assured her with unassumed kindness , that she had her cordial forgiveness ; though , indeed , she was pleased to say , ` Hope 's explanation left her little to forgive . ' 
`` And you , sir , '' said Hope , turning to the Governor , `` you , I trust , will pardon me for selecting your garden for a secret rendezvous . '' 
`` Indeed , Hope Leslie , I could pardon a much heavier transgression in one so young as thee ; and one who seems to have so hopeful a sense of error , '' replied the Governor , while the goodwill beaming in his benevolent face , shewed how much more accordant kindness was with his nature , than the austere reproof which he so often believed the letter of his duty required from him . 
Hope asked ; and glancing her eye around the room , it involuntarily rested , for a moment , on Everell . 
All but Everell , who did not speak , were warm in their assurances that they had nothing to forgive ; and the elder Fletcher tenderly pressed her hand , secretly rejoicing that her graceful humility enabled her to start with her story from vantage ground . 
`` I did not see you , I believe , Esther , '' continued Hope , `` after we parted at Digby 's cottage ? '' 
`` Speak a trifle louder , if you please , Miss Leslie , '' said the Governor . 
Hope was herself conscious that her voice had faltered , at the recollection of the definitive scene in Digby 's cottage , and making a new effort , she said in a firmer and more cheerful tone , `` you , Esther , were happily occupied . 
`` Pardon me , Miss Leslie , said the Governor , interrupting Hope , `` our friend , Sir Philip , hath deserved you thanks rather than your censure . 
`` Sir Philip strangely mistakes me , '' replied Hope , `` if he thinks any thing could console me for apparently betraying one who trusted me , to sorrowful , fearful imprisonment . '' 
Hope proceeded . 
Thus he sat and looked , while Hope described her politic acquiescence in Antonio 's error , and repeated her first reply to him in Italian . 
`` Indeed you did , kind master Cradock , '' said Hope , laying her hand on his ; `` and many a weary hour it cost you . '' 
Hope had little more to relate : she prudently suppressed the private concerns of Sir Philip 's page , and attributed their accidental meeting to his having come abroad , as in truth he had , in quest of his master . 
When she had finished , the Governor said , `` Thou hast indeed been brought through many dangers , Hope Leslie ; delivered from the hand of thy strong enemy , and thy feet made like hinds ' feet ; and I joy to say , that thy experience of the Lord 's mercies seemeth to have wrought a becoming sobriety in thee . 
said Hope : `` I did not esteem it worship ; I thought it merely an affectionate address to one who -- and I hope I erred not in that -- might not have been a great deal better than myself . '' 
`` I think she erred not greatly , '' said Mr. Fletcher , who at this moment felt too tenderly for Hope , patiently to hear her rebuked ; `` the best catholic doctors put this interpretation on the invocations to saints . '' 
This was but negative authority ; but while the Governor hesitated how he should answer it , Mr. Fletcher turned to Esther : `` Miss Downing , '' he said , `` thou art the pattern maiden of the commonwealth , -- in Hope 's condition , wouldst thou have acted differently ? 
out of thy mouth she shall be justified or condemned . '' 
`` Speak , dear Esther , '' said Hope ; `` why do you hesitate ? 
Esther 's strictness was a submission to duty ; and it cost her an effort to say , `` I would rather , Hope , thou hadst trusted thyself wholly to that Providence that had so wonderfully wrought for thee thus far . '' 
`` I believe you are quite right , Esther , '' said Hope , who was disposed to acquiesce in whatever her friend said , and glad to escape from any further discussion ; and , moreover , anxious to avert Esther 's observation from Everell , who , during the conversation , had been walking the room , his arms folded , to and fro , but had narrowly watched Esther during this appeal ; and when she announced her opinion , had turned disappointed away . 
While crossing the room she said , `` It is not often I quote scripture , as you all know ; because , as I have said before , I hold a text from scripture , or a sample of chintz , to be a deceptive kind of specimen ; but I must say now , that I think the case of David , in eating the shew bread , instead of looking for manna , upholds Hope Leslie in using the means the Lord chose to place in her hands . '' 
Hope followed him thither , and begged a few moments audience ; which was , of course , readily granted . 
he asked ; `` I like not , and it is not fitting , that any one should kneel in my house , but for a holy purpose , -- rise , Hope Leslie , and explain yourself -- rise , my child , '' he added in a softened tone , for his heart was touched with her distress ; `` tyrants are knelt to -- and I trust I am none . '' 
`` Well , be calm -- what of her ? '' 
`` What of her ! 
Is she not , the generous creature , at this moment in your condemned dungeon ? 
is she not to be tried to-morrow -- perhaps sentenced to death -- and can I , the cause of bringing her into this trouble -- can I look calmly on ? '' 
`` You speak unadvisedly , Miss Leslie . 
exclaimed Hope . 
`` On her merits , and rights . '' 
`` There is some touch of reason in thy speech , Hope Leslie , '' replied the Governor , his lips almost relaxing to a smile . 
`` I have not to tell you , sir , '' said Hope , struggling to speak in a dispassionate tone , `` but only to remindyou of what you were once the first to speak of -- the many obligations of the English to the family of Mononotto -- a debt , that has been but ill paid . '' 
Hope perceived the Governor looked very significantly , and she apprehended that he might think her intercession was instigated by Everell . 
`` I have not seen Everell Fletcher , '' she said , `` till this evening , since we parted at the garden ; and you will do both him and me the justice to believe , I have not now spoken at his bidding . '' 
Hope rose to withdraw : the sanguine hopes that had sustained her were abated , her limbs trembled , and her lips quivered , as she turned to say `` good-night . '' 
The Governor took her hand , and said compassionately , -- `` Be not thus disquieted , my child ; cast thy care upon the Lord , He can bring light out of this darkness . '' 
` And he alone , ' she thought , as she slowly crept to her room . 
A favourite from her birth , Hope had been accustomed to the gratification of her wishes ; innocent and moderate they had been ; but uniform indulgence is not a favourable school , and our heroine had now to learn from that stern teacher experience , that events and circumstances can not be moulded to individual wishes . 
Absorbed in her own reverie , Hope did not , at first , particularly observe her friend , and when she did , she saw that she appeared much disturbed . 
Hope hastened to her , and folding her arms around her tenderly , inquired what could thus distress her ? 
`` I can not bear this , '' said Hope , `` I can bear any thing better than this : are you displeased with me , Esther ? '' 
`` You have most cruelly , fatally injured me , Hope Leslie . '' 
`` Here is some wretched mistake , '' cried Hope ; `` for heaven 's sake explain , Esther : if I had injured you knowingly , I should be of all creatures most guilty ; but I have not . 
If I have innocently injured you , speak , my dear friend , I beseech you , '' she added , again putting her arm around Esther ; `` have not you yourself , a thousand times , said there should be no disguises with friends ; no untold suspicions ; no unexplained mysteries . '' 
Again Esther repressed Hope . 
demanded Hope impetuously . 
`` Ask me no questions now , Hope . 
`` Oh , Esther , you are cruel , '' said Hope , bursting into tears . 
There was a pause of half an hour , during which Esther sat with her face covered with her handkerchief , and sobbing violently , while Hope walked up an down the room ; her tender heart penetrated to the very core with sorrow , and her mind perplexed with endless conjectures about the cause of her friend 's emotions . 
She sometimes approached near the truth , but that way she could not bear to look . 
At last Esther became quiet , and Hope ventured once more to approach her , and leaned over her without speaking . 
Esther rose from her chair , knelt down , and drew Hope down beside her , and in a low , but perfectly firm voice , supplicated for grace to resist engrossing passion , and selfish affections . 
Do not say any thing to me now , Hope -- the future will explain all . '' 
There was an authority in her manner , that Hope could not , and did not , wish to resist . 
`` If you speak to me so , Esther , '' she said , `` I would obey you , even though it were possible obedience should be more difficult . 
`` I do , '' she replied ; but her voice faltered ; and governed by the strictest law of truth , she changed her form of expression -- `` I mean that I shall again love you as well -- I trust better than ever -- be content with this , for the present , Hope , and try me no further . '' 
Once , while they were undressing , Esther said , but without any emotion in her voice , -- her face was averted from Hope , -- `` Everell has been proposing to me to assist him in a clandestine attempt to get Magawisca out of prison . '' 
exclaimed Hope , with the greatest animation -- `` to night ? '' 
`` I thought it not right for me to undertake it , '' Esther replied in the same tone , quite calm , but so deliberate , that Hope detected the effort with which she spoke , and dared not venture another question . 
They both went to bed , but not to sleep ; mutual and secret anxieties kept them for a long time restless , and a strange feeling of embarrassment , as distant as the width of their bed would allow ; but , finally , Hope , as if she could no longer bear this estrangement , nestled close to Esther , folded her arms around her , and fell asleep on her bosom . 
`` Oh , Hope Leslie ! 
The artifices of Sir Philip Gardiner , the false light in which our heroine had been placed by her embarrassments with Magawisca -- the innocent manuvrings of Madam Winthrop , and finally , the generous rashness of Hope Leslie , had led him step by step , to involve himself in an engagement with Miss Downing ; that engagement had just been made known to her protectors , and ratified by them , when the denouement of the mysterious rendezvous at the garden , explained his fatal mistake . 
When he recurred to all that had passed since his first meeting with Hope Leslie , and particularly to their last interview at the garden , when he had imputed her uncontrollable emotion to her sensibility in relation to Sir Philip , he had reason to believe , he was beloved by the only being he had ever loved . 
There was but one honourable course for him to pursue , and on that he firmly resolved ; to avoid the presence of Hope Leslie -- to break the chain of affection wrought in youth , and rivetted in manhood , and whose links seemed to him , to encompass and sustain his very life ; in fine , to forget the past -- but alas ! 
Hope 's dangerous illness had suspended all his purposes ; he could not disguise his interest -- and indeed , its manifestation excited neither surprise nor remark , for it seemed sufficiently accounted for by their long and intimate association . 
While Hope 's life was in peril , even Magawisca was forgotten ; but the moment Hope 's convalescence restored the use of his faculties , they were all devoted to obtaining Magawisca 's release , and he had left no means untried , either of open intercession , or clandestine effort ; but all as yet was without effect . 
Everell remained amidst the multitude unnoticed and unnoticing ; his eye roving about in that vague and inexpressive manner that indicates the mind holds no communion with external objects , till he was roused by a buz of `` there she comes ! '' 
See , with what an air she comes among her betters , as if she were queen of us all . '' 
Sir Philip was then requested to relate the circumstances that had , through his instrumentality , led to the taking of the prisoner , and so much of the conversation he had heard between her and Miss Leslie , as might serve to elucidate the testimony of the Indian , who had pretended , by his information , to reveal a direful conspiracy . 
Sir Philip rose , and Magawisca , for the first time , raised her eyes , and fixed them on him ; his met hers , and he quailed before her glance . 
As if to test the power of conscience still further , at this critical moment , his unhappy page , poor Rosa , pressed through the crowd , and giving Sir Philip a packet of letters just arrived from England , she seated herself on the steps of the platform , near where the knight stood . 
The most obvious was to inflame the prejudices of Magawisca 's judges , and by anticipation to discredit her testimony ; and quick of invention , and unembarrassed by the instincts of humanity , he proceeded , after faithfully relating the conversation in the churchyard , between the prisoner and Miss Leslie , to detail the following gratuitous particulars . 
He said , ` that after conducting Miss Leslie to the Governor 's door , he had immediately returned to his own lodgings , and that induced by the still raging storm to make his walk as short as possible , he took a cross-cut through the burial ground ; that on coming near the upper extremity of the enclosure , he fancied he heard a human voice mingling with the din of the storm ; that he paused , and directly a flash of lightning discovered Magawisca kneeling on the bare wet earth , making those monstrous and violent contortions , which all who heard him , well knew characterized the devil-worship of the powwows ; he would not -- he ought not repeat to christian ears , her invocations to the Evil-one to aid her in the execution of her revenge on the English ; nor would he , more particularly describe her diabolical writhings and beatings of her person . 
All the evidence being now before the court , the Governor asked Magawisca , `` if she had aught to allege in her own defence . '' 
It now drew near the hour of two , the time appointed for the interview of the Governor with Sir Philip ; the dinner was over , the table removed , and all orderly and quiet in the parlour , when Jennet , in her retreat , heard Miss Leslie and Mr. Everell Fletcher enter , and though the weather was warm , close the door after them . 
With this plausible tale , not the best that could have been devised , perhaps , by one accustomed to all the sinuosities of the human mind and human affairs , but the best that Sir Philip could frame in his present perplexity , he bent his steps towards the Governor 's , a little anticipating the appointed hour , in the hope of obtaining a glimpse of Miss Leslie , whom he had not seen since their last interview at the island ; and who was still the bright cynosure by which , through all the dangers that beset him , he trusted to guide himself to a joyous destiny . 
Never was he more unwelcome to her sight , than when he opened the parlour door , and interrupted the deeply interesting conversation in which we left her engaged . 
She coldly bowed without speaking , and left him , without making any apology , in the midst of his flattering compliments on the recovery of her health . 
Faithful are the wounds of a friend , Sir Philip ; and this may prove a timely rebuke to his youth , and to this quicksilver , fear-nought , Hope Leslie . 
Hope Leslie resisted all her aunt 's efforts to interest her in a string of pearls , which she intended for a wedding gift for Esther ; `` but , '' Mrs. Grafton said , wreathing them into Hope 's hair , `` her heart misgave her , they looked so much prettier peeping out from among Hope 's wavy locks , than they would on Esther 's sleek hair . '' 
The agitation of Hope 's spirits was manifest , but -LRB- we grieve to unveil her infirmities -RRB- that , in her , excited no more attention than a change of weather in an April day . 
She read one moment -- worked the next -- and the next , was devoting herself with earnest affection to the amusement of her pining sister ; then she would suddenly break off from her , and take a few turns in the garden : in short , confusion had suddenly intruded within the dominion of order , and usurped the government of all his subjects . 
The family all assembled in the parlour as usual , excepting Miss Leslie and Cradock , who had retired to the study , to look over a translation from the Italian , which Hope just recollected her tutor had never revised . 
Faith Leslie sat on a cushion beside the door , in a state of vacancy and listlessness , into which she seemed to have hopelessly sunk , after the first violent emotions that succeeded her return . 
At the first sound of his voice , Faith Leslie sprang to her feet , but instantly sunk back again on the cushion , and apparently returned to her former abstraction . 
`` Master Cradock has gone out , sir , an please you , some minutes since , with Miss Leslie . '' 
`` Gone out -- with Miss Leslie -- whither ? '' 
Hope had retired to the study with Master Cradock , where she delighted her tutor with her seemingly profound attention to his criticisms on her Italian author . 
`` You see , Miss Hope Leslie , '' he said , intent on illustrating a difficult passage , `` the point here lies in this , that Orlando hesitates whether to go to the rescue of Beatrice . '' 
But how were my words an admonition to you , Miss Hope Leslie ? '' 
`` The task to be done , '' said Hope , while she could not forbear laughing at Cradock 's comparing himself to the master of music , `` is not very unlike that of Orpheus . '' 
`` So much the more need to guard against the evening air , '' said Hope , who had her own secret and urgent reasons for insisting on the cloak ; `` put on the cloak , Master Cradock , and move quick , and softly , for I would pass out without notice from the family . '' 
A Moslem would as soon have thought of resisting fate , as Cradock of opposing a wish of his young mistress , which only involved his own comfort , so he cloaked himself , while Hope flew to the kitchen , gave her orders , and threw on her hat and shawl , which she had taken care to have at hand . 
Cradock was so absorbed in the extraordinary happiness of being selected as the confidential aid and companion of his favourite , that he would have followed her to the world 's end , without question , if she had not herself turned the direction of his thoughts . 
`` It is like yourself , '' she said , `` my good tutor , to obey the call of humanity , without inquiring in whose behalf it comes ; and I think you will not be the less prompt to follow the dictates of your own heart , and my wishes , when I tell you that I am leading you to poor Magawisca 's prison . '' 
You have , doubtless , Miss Hope , provided yourself with a passport from the Governor , '' he added , for almost the first time in his life looking at the business part of a transaction . 
but it is ; and if you will abide here one moment , I will hasten back and procure it , '' he said , in his simplicity never suspecting that Miss Leslie 's omission was any thing other than an oversight . 
`` Nay , nay , Master Cradock , '' she replied , laying her hand on his arm , `` it is too late now : my heart is set on this visit to the unhappy prisoner -- and if you were to go back , Madam Winthrop , or my aunt , or somebody else , might deem the hour unseasonable . 
Hope became impatient , and bidding Cradock follow her , she passed through the passage , and opened the door of Barnaby 's apartment . 
Hope assented , and , with the best grace she could command , accompanied him through twelve stanzas of long , and very irregular metre , which he , obligingly , gave out , line by line . 
When this , on Hope 's part , extempore worship was finished , `` Welcome here , and many thanks , Miss Leslie , '' said Barnaby , `` it 's a good sign to find a prepared heart and ready voice . 
But come , Miss Leslie , '' raking open the embers , `` draw up your chair , and warm your dear little feet . 
She looks pale yet after her sickness , ha , Master Cradock ? 
I 'll read it to you , '' he continued , taking off his spectacles , and giving them a preparatory wipe -- `` Ruthy is quite handy with her pen -- takes after the Tuttles in that : you know , Miss Leslie , my great-grandfather wrote a book . '' 
`` Yes , '' said Hope , interrupting him , and rising `` and I trust his great-grandson will live to write another . '' 
`` Sit down , Miss Leslie -- it may be -- those of as humble a degree as Barnaby Tuttle have written books ; and writing runs in families , like the king 's evil '' -- and Barnaby laughed at his own witty illustration -- `` but sit down , Miss Leslie , I must read Ruthy 's letter to you . '' 
It 's not my way to speak with flattering lips , but truly , Miss Hope Leslie , you seem to be one of those that does not to others that it may be done to you again . '' 
Hope had flattered herself , that her old friend in his eagerness to serve her , would dispense with the ceremony of a passport from the Governor . 
Agitated by this new and alarming obstacle , she commanded her voice with difficulty to reply in her usual tone . 
`` Not necessary!that was an odd thought for such an all-witted damsel as thou art , Miss Hope Leslie . 
Hope walked up and down the room , biting her lips with vexation and disappointment . 
Every moment 's delay hazarded the final success of her project . 
`` Be comforted , Miss Hope Leslie , '' he said , `` I am not so nimble as I was in years past , but it is scarce fifteen minutes walk to the Governor 's , and I will hasten thither , and get the needful paper . '' 
`` No , '' cried Hope ; `` no , Master Cradock , you shall not go . 
I shall never ask another favour of you , Barnaby , '' and she sat down , anxious and disappointed , and burst into tears . 
Hope now passed to the extreme of joy and gratitude . 
Hope had the grace to pause one instant , and to meditate a retreat before she had involved others in sinning against their consciences ; but she had the end to be attained so much at heart , and the faults to be committed by her agents were of so light a dye , that the scale of her inclinations soon preponderated , and she proceeded . 
Hope thought there could not be darkness or imprisonment to such a spirit . 
Barnaby now turned the bolts and opened the door , and as the feeble ray of his lamp fell athwart the dungeon 's gloom , Hope perceived Magawisca sitting on her flock bed , with a blanket wrapped around her . 
Miss Leslie took the lamp from Barnaby . 
she asked . 
Hope , quick as she was in invention and action , felt that she had a very brief space to effect her purposed arrangements , and while she hesitated as to the best mode of beginning , Cradock , who nothing doubted he had been brought hither as a ghostly teacher , asked whether `` he should commence with prayer or exhortation ? '' 
this was uttered in a tone of half inquiry and half-assertion , that enforced by Hope 's earnest imploring manner , quickened Cradock 's slow apprehension . 
She perceived the light was dawning on his mind , and she turned from him to Magawisca : `` Magawisca , '' she said , stooping over her , `` rouse yourself -- trust me -- I have come to release you . '' 
She made no reply , nor movement : `` Oh ! 
`` Thou didst once deceive and betray me , Hope Leslie , '' she replied , without raising her head . 
Hope concisely explained the secret machinations of Sir Philip , by which she had been made the unconscious and innocent instrument of betraying her . 
`` Then , Hope Leslie , '' she exclaimed , rising from her abject seat , and throwing off her blanket , `` thy soul is unstained , and Everell Fletcher 's truth will not be linked to false-hood . '' 
Hope would have explained that her destiny and Everell 's were not to be interwoven , but she had neither time nor heart for it . 
`` You are too generous , Magawisca , '' she said , in a tremulous tone , `` to think of any one but yourself , now -- we have not a breath to lose -- take this ribbon , '' and she untied her sash ; `` bind your hair tight with it , so that you can draw Master Cradock 's wig over your head -- you must exchange dresses with him . '' 
`` Nay , Hope Leslie , I can not leave another in my net . '' 
She turned to Cradock , `` now , my good tutor , '' she said , in her most persuasive tones , `` lend me your aid , quickly -- Magawisca must have the loan of your wig , hat , boots , and cloak , and you must sit down there on her bed , and let me wrap you in her blanket . '' 
`` Scruple not , dear Master Cradock , '' replied Hope , pulling down one of his hands , and holding it between both hers , `` no harm can , no harm shall befall you . '' 
`` Think not , sweet Miss Hope , it 's for the perishing body I am thoughtful ; for thy sake I would bare my neck to the slayer ; to thy least wish I would give the remnant of my days ; but I scruple if it be lawful for a Christian man to lend this aid to an idolater . '' 
we have no time to answer such scruples now , but to-morrow , master Cradock , I will show you that you greatly err ; '' and as she said this , she proceeded , without any further ceremony , to divest the old man of his wig , which she very carefully adjusted on Magawisca 's head . 
Both parties were passive in her hands , Magawisca not seeming to relish much better than Cradock , the false character she was assuming . 
The hope of liberty -- of deliverance from her galling imprisonment -- of escape beyond the power and dominion of her enemies , had now taken full possession of Magawisca ; and the thought that she should owe her release to Everell and to Hope , who in her imagination was identified with him , filled her with emotions of joy , resembling those a saint may feel , when she sees in vision the ministering angels sent to set her free from her earthly prison : `` I will do all thou shalt command me , Hope Leslie ; thou art indeed a spirit of light , and love , and beauty . '' 
Hope had not , as may be imagined , stood still to listen to this long sentence , uttered in her tutor 's deliberate , entrecoup manner , but in the meanwhile she had , with an almost supernatural celerity of movement , arranged every thing to present the same aspect as when Barnaby first opened the door of the dungeon . 
She drew Cradock to the bed , seated him there , and wrapped the blanket about him as it had enveloped Magawisca . 
I hear Barnaby , '' she exclaimed ; `` dear Master Cradock , sit a little straighter -- there -- that will do -- turn a little more side ways , you will not look so broad -- there -- that 's better . '' 
`` Miss Hope Leslie , ye have perverted the simple-minded . '' 
She readjusted the blanket , which she had drawn so close over the unresisting creature 's face as almost to suffocate him . 
All was now arranged to her mind , and she spent the remaining half instant in whispering consolations to Cradock : `` Do not let your heart fail you , my good kind tutor -- in one hour you shall be relieved . '' 
Cradock would have again explained that he was regardless of any personal risk , but she interrupted him : `` Nay , you need not speak ; I know that is not your present care , but do not be troubled ; we are commanded to do good to all -- the rain falleth on the just and the unjust -- and if we are to help our enemy 's ox out of the pit , much more our enemy . 
She moved a few steps from the parties , and when the jailer opened the door , she appeared to be awaiting him : `` Just in season , good Master Tuttle ; my tutor has nothing more to say , and I am as impatient to go , as you are to have me gone . '' 
`` It is only for your own sake that I am impatient , Miss Hope ; let us make all haste out . '' 
Hope was alarmed by the sudden increase of light -- `` lend me the lamp , Barnaby , '' she said , `` to look for my glove -- where can I have dropped it ? 
Magawisca obeyed the hint , while Hope in her pretended search , so skilfully managed the light , that not a ray of it touched Magawisca 's face . 
She had passed Barnaby -- Hope thought the worst danger escaped . 
`` Ah , here it is , '' she said , and by way of precaution , she added , in the most careless tone she could assume , `` I will carry the lamp for you , Barnaby . '' 
`` No , no , thank you , Miss Leslie , I always like to carry the light myself ; and besides , I must take a good look at you both before I lock the door . 
Magawisca had advanced several steps into the passage , and Hope 's first impulse was to scream to her to run , but a second , and happier thought prevailed , and taking her shawl , which was hanging negligently over her arm , she contrived in throwing it over her head , to sweep it across Barnaby 's lamp , in such a way as to extinguish the light beyond the possibility of recovery , as Barnaby proved , by vainly trying to blow it again into a flame . 
Barnaby arranged himself as she suggested , and then hoping her sudden action had broken the chain of his thoughts , and determined he should not have time to resume it , she said , -- `` When you write to Ruth , Barnaby , be sure you commend me kindly to her ; and tell her , that I have done the baby linen I promised her , and that I hope little Barnaby will prove as good a man as his grandfather . '' 
`` Oh , thank ye , Miss Hope , I trust , by the blessing of the Lord , much better ; but they do say , '' added the old man , with a natural ancestral complacency , `` they do say he favours me ; he 's got the true Tuttle chin , the little dog ! '' 
`` La , Miss Hope , you must mean to joke . 
`` Miss Hope Leslie , '' he cried , `` be so good as to stay one moment , while I get a light ; the night is so murky that I can not see , even here , the lineaments of Master Cradock 's complexion . '' 
At the instant the prison door was closed , Magawisca divested herself of her hideous disguise , and proceeded on with Hope , to the place where Everell was awaiting them , with the necessary means to transport her beyond the danger of pursuit . 
It appeared by her statement , that Hope and Magawisca unattended , would , at a late hour of the evening , pass through an uninhabited and unfrequented part of the town near the water-side , and that Everell , with assistants , would be in waiting for them at a certain landing-place . 
His passion for Miss Leslie had been stimulated by the obstacles which opposed it . 
His hopes were certainly abated by her indifference ; but self-love , and its minister vanity , are inexhaustible in their resources ; and Sir Philip trusted for better success in future to his own powers , and to feminine weakness ; for he , like other profligates , believed that there was no woman , however pure and lofty her seeming , but she was commanded `` By such poor passion as the maid that milks , And does the meanest chares ; '' Jennet 's information suggested a master-stroke by which he could at once achieve his object ; a single coup de main by which he could carry the citadel he had so long and painfully besieged . 
Chaddock -LRB- whose crew had occasioned such danger and alarm to Miss Leslie -RRB- was stillriding in the bay with his vessel . 
All Miss Leslie 's paternal connexions were on the royal side -- her fortune was still in their hands , and subject to their control . 
Sir Philip , in his arrangements with Chaddock , excused himself from being one of the party who were to effect the abduction of Miss Leslie . 
Miss Leslie 's companion , as I told you , may be disguised -- she may wear a man 's or woman 's apparel , but you have an infallible guide in her height : she is at least a half head taller than Miss Leslie . 
In spite of your prayers , and visions , and silly fancies , Miss Leslie must soon be here ; the snare is too well prepared to be escaped . 
After this one violence , to which she and cruel fate have driven me , I will be a true knight , as humble and worshipful as any hero of chivalry . '' 
`` But she does not now love you , and do you not fear she will hate you for this outrage ? '' 
You shall yet hear her say , like the lady of Sir Gawaine , ` Oh ! 
-- She burst into tears , and added , `` I would give my poor life , and a thousand more , if I had them , to save Hope Leslie , but I will never do her menial service . '' 
-- `` Has the scoundrel dared to put his arm around Hope Leslie ? '' 
`` He dared not trust her -- she would have leaped into the waves rather than have come to me -- ungracious girl ! '' 
`` I can not leave Miss Leslie , '' continued Sir Philip , `` she leans on me as if she were fainting . 
`` She is certainly fainting , '' he said , `` it is the close air and this cursed shawl . '' 
Miss Leslie is suffocating -- set down the lamp , I say , and call assistance . 
AfterMiss Leslie 's escape from Oneco on the island , he remained for some time unconscious of her departure , and entirely absorbed in his efforts to quicken the energy of reviving life in his father ; and when he discovered that his prisoner had left him , he still deemed her as certainly within his power on the sea-girt island , as if she had been enclosed by the walls of a prison . 
The instrumentality of Hope Leslie might be important to effect this object , and she also might remain in safe custody with the Indian chief . 
He encountered Chaddock 's crew , much in the situation in which they were first discovered by Miss Leslie , for after having been baffled in their pursuit of her , they returned and recomposed themselves to await the light of day , when they might give a signal to some boat to take them off the island . 
do not hesitate , Magawisca , '' cried Hope , who had , till now , been only a listener to the conversation in which she took a deep interest . 
Everell and Hope would have interrupted her with further entreaties and arguments : `` Touch no more on that , '' she said , `` we must part -- and for ever . '' 
Her voice faltered for the first time , and , turning from her own fate to what appeared to her the bright destiny of her companions , `` my spirit will joy in the thought , '' she said , `` that you are dwelling in love and happiness together . 
She paused -- neither of her companions spoke -- neither could speak -- and , naturally , misinterpreting their silence , `` have I passed your bound of modesty , '' she said , `` in speaking to the maiden as if she were a wife ? '' 
To Hope it seemed that too much had already been spoken . 
She could be prudent when any thing but ner own safety depended on her discretion . 
Before Magawisca could reply to Everell , she gave a turn to the conversation : `` Ere we part , Magawisca , '' she said , `` can not you give me some charm , by which I may win my sister 's affections ? 
`` Ask your own heart , Hope Leslie , if any charm could win your affections from Everell Fletcher ? '' 
She paused for a reply . 
The gulf from which Hope had retreated , seemed to be widening before her , but , summoning all her courage , she answered with a tolerably firm voice , `` yes -- yes , Magawisca , if virtue , if duty to others required it , I trust in heaven I could command and direct my affections . '' 
We hope Everell may be forgiven , for the joy that gushed through his heart when Hope expressed a confidence in her own strength , which at least implied a consciousness that she needed it . 
Magawisca replied to Hope 's apparent meaning : `` Both virtue and duty , '' she said , `` bind your sister to Oneco . 
When she flies from you , as she will , mourn not over her , Hope Leslie -- the wild flower would perish in your gardens -- the forest is like a native home to her -- and she will sing as gaily again as the bird that hath found its mate . '' 
A light canoe had been provided , and Digby had his instructions from Everell to convey Magawisca to any place she might herself select . 
no , no '' cried Hope , joining her entreaties , `` your noble mind must not be wasted in those hideous solitudes . '' 
`` Hope Leslie , there is no solitude to me ; the Great Spirit , and his ministers , are every where present and visible to the eye of the soul that loves him ; nature is but his interpreter ; her forms are but bodies for his spirit . 
Those beautiful lights , '' and she pointed upward , `` that shine alike on your stately domes and our forest homes , speak to me of his love to all , -- think you I go to a solitude , Hope Leslie ? '' 
`` No , Magawisca ; there is no solitude , nor privation , nor sorrow , to a soul that thus feels the presence of God , '' replied Hope . 
She paused -- it was not a time for calm reflection or protracted solicitation ; but the thought that a mind so disposed to religious impressions and affections , might enjoy the brighter light of Christian revelation -- a revelation so much higher , nobler , and fuller , than that which proceeds from the voice of nature -- made Hope feel a more intense desire than ever to retain Magawisca ; but this was a motive Magawisca could not now appreciate , and she could not , therefore , urge : `` I can not ask you , '' she said , `` I do not ask you , for your sake , but for ours , to return to us . '' 
she replied , with a faint smile , `` ye need not the lesson , ye will each be to the other a full stream of happiness . 
Hope naturally sought relief in action : she took a morocco case from her pocket , and drew from it a rich gold chain , with a clasp containing hair , and set round with precious stones : `` Magawisca , '' she said , with as much steadiness of voice as she could assume , `` take this token with you , it will serve as a memorial of us both , for I have put in the clasp a lock of Everell 's hair , taken from his head when he was a boy , at Bethel -- it will remind you of your happiest days there . '' 
Magawisca took the chain , and held it in her hand a moment , as if deliberating . 
`` This is beautiful , '' she said , `` and would , when I am far away from thee , speak sweetly to me of thy kindness , Hope Leslie . 
But I would rather -- if I could demean myself to be a beggar '' -- she hesitated , and then added , `` I wrong thy generous nature in fearing thus to speak ; I know thou wilt freely give me the image when thou hast the living form . '' 
Before she had finished , Hope 's quick apprehension had comprehended her meaning . 
Immediately after Everell 's arrival in England , he had , at his father 's desire , had a small miniature of himself painted , and sent to Hope . 
She attached it to a ribbon , and had always worn it . 
Digby had at this moment come up to urge no more delay ; and we leave to others to adjust the proportions of emotion that were indicated by Hope 's faltering voice , and an irrepressible burst of tears , between her grief at parting , and other and secret feelings . 
They moved to the water 's edge , and , once more prompted by Digby , Everell and Hope , in broken voices , expressed their last wishes and prayers . 
Magawisca joined their hands , and bowing her head on them , -- `` The Great Spirit guide ye , '' she said , and then turning away , leaped into the boat , muffled her face in her mantle , and in a few brief moments disappeared for ever from their sight . 
Everell and Hope remained immoveable , gazing on the little boat till it faded in the dim distance ; for a few moments , every feeling for themselves was lost in the grief of parting for ever from the admirable being , who seemed to her enthusiastic young friends , one of the noblest of the works of God -- a bright witness to the beauty , the independence , and the immortality of virtue . 
They breathed their silent prayers for her ; and when their thoughts returned to themselves , though they gave them no expression , there was a consciousness of perfect unity of feeling , a joy in the sympathy that was consecrated by its object , and might be innocently indulged , that was a delicious spell to their troubled hearts . 
Hope inferred , that notwithstanding her precautions , the apprehensions of the family had probably been excited in regard to her untimely absence , and she passed the little distance that remained with dutiful haste . 
Hope Lesliemet Mr. Fletcher at the threshold of the door . 
`` Praised be the Lord for thy deliverance , Hope Leslie , '' cried Governor Winthrop , clasping his hands with astonishment . 
In the mean time , Hope learned the following particulars from the ladies . 
Antonio knew the name of the author of this guilty project to be Sir Philip Gardiner , and its victim , Miss Leslie . 
And into the power of this wretch the friends of Miss Leslie were left , for a few agonizing moments , to believe she had fallen ; and their joy at her appearance was , as may be believed , commensurate with their previous distress . 
One of the servants reported that the young sailor had disappeared ; and Mrs. Grafton suddenly recollected to have observed that Faith Leslie was not with her when she was awakened , a circumstance she had overlooked in her subsequent agitation . 
Good Master Cradock was not forgotten ; but his friends were satisfied with Miss Leslie 's assurance that he was safe , and would , probably , not return before the morning . 
The final departure of her sister cost Hope many regrets and tears . 
There had been nothing in the intercourse of the sisters to excite Hope 's affections . 
Faith had been spiritless , woe-begone -- a soulless body -- and had repelled , with sullen indifference , all Hope 's efforts to win her love . 
Indeed , she looked upon the attentions of her English friends but as a continuation of the unjust force by which they had severed her from all she held dear . 
Her marriage , solemnized as it had been by prescribed Christian rites , would probably have been considered by her guardian , and his friends , as invalidated by her extreme youth , and the circumstances which had led to the union . 
But Hope took a more youthful , romantic , and , perhaps , natural view of the affair ; and the suggestions of Magawisca , combining with the dictates of her own heart , produced the conclusion that this was a case where ` God had joined together , and man might not put asunder . ' 
Even her friend , when they were alone together , made no allusion to it , and Hope rightly concluded that she was satisfied with her own conjectures as to its object . 
Hope could scarcely refrain from indulging the natural frankness of her temper , by disclosing , unsolicited , the particulars of her successful enterprise ; and she only checked the inclinations of her heart from the apprehension that Esther might deem it her duty to extend her knowledge to her uncle , and thus Magawisca might be again endangered . 
` She certainly conjectures how it is , ' thought Hope , making her own mental comments on Esther 's forbearance ; ` and yet she does not indicate the least displeasure at my having combined with Everell to render the delightful service that her severe conscience would not allow her to perform . ' 
A deep , scorching blush suffused Hope 's cheeks , brow , and neck . 
She folded Hope in her arms , and pressed her fondly to her heart , but not a word , tear , or sigh escaped her . 
Hope turned away from Esther , and crept into her bed ; feeling , like a condemned culprit , selfcondemned . 
Barnaby had a natural feeling of vexation at having been outwitted by Hope Leslie 's stratagems ; but it was a transient emotion , and not strong enough to check the habitual current of his gratitude and affection for her , nor did it at all enter into his relation of the facts to the Governor . 
He did not mention Magawisca 's name without a parenthesis , containing some commendation of her deportment in the prison . 
He spoke of Hope Leslie , as the `` thoughtless child , '' or , the `` feeling young creature . '' 
He opened the meeting with a communication of the important intelligence received from the Narragansett chief ; intimated the politic uses to which the wisdom of his brethren might apply it ; then , after some general observations on the imperfection of human wisdom , disclosed at full the iniquitous character and conduct of Sir Philip Gardiner ; lamented in particular , that he had been grievously deceived by that crafty son of Belial -- and then dwelt on the wonderful interposition of Providence in behalf of Hope Leslie , which clearly intimated , as he said , and all his auditors acknowledged , that the young maiden 's life was precious in the sight of the Lord , and was preserved for some special purpose . 
The conclusion of the whole matter was , that Miss Leslie and Master Cradock should receive a private admonition from the Governor , and a free pardon ; and that Mr. Everell Fletcher should be restored to liberty , on condition that , at the next sitting of the court , he appeared in the prisoner 's bar , to receive a public censure , and be admonished as to his future carriage . 
While all this business was transpiring , Hope Leslie , wearied by the fatigues , agitations , and protracted vigil of the preceding night , was sleeping most profoundly . 
She awoke with a confused sense of her last anxious waking thoughts , and naturally turned to look for Esther , but Esther had already risen . 
Hope was at that moment adjusting her hair ; she dropped her comb -- cast a hasty survey around the room . 
Hope still stood with the door half open , her emotions in no degree tranquillized by the reception of her inquiry . 
`` Good morning , Miss Hope Leslie -- be good enough to close the door -- the wind is easterly this morning . 
Madam Winthrop beckoned to Hope to take a chair next her , and Hope moved to the table mechanically , feeling as if she had been paralyzed by some gorgon influence . 
Her question was not even adverted to -- no allusion was made to Esther . 
Hope observed that Madam Winthrop 's eyes were red with weeping , and she also observed that in offering the little civilities of the table , she addressed her in a voice of unusual kindness . 
Hope would have followed her aunt -- any further delay seemed insupportable , but Madam Winthrop took her hand , and detained her . 
`` Nay , Hope Leslie , grow not so suddenly pale , no blame is attached to thee -- nor to thee , Mr. Everell Fletcher , who art even more deeply concerned in this matter . 
Both the Governor and myself have duly weighed all the circumstances , and have most heartily approved of that which she hath done , who near and dear as she is to us in the flesh , is still nearer and dearer by those precious gifts and graces that do so far exalt her -LRB- I would offend none present , -RRB- above all other maidens . 
Hope was obliged to lean against the wall for support . 
Everell broke the seal , and both he and Hope , complying faithfully with Miss Downing 's injunction , read together , to the very last word , the letter that follows : `` To my dear and kind friends , Everell Fletcher and Hope Leslie . 
My error hath been exceeding humbling to the pride of woman ; yours , Hope Leslie , was of the nature of your disposition -- rash and generous ; and you , Everell , -LRB- I speak it not reproachfully , but as being truth-bound , -RRB- have not dealt with gospel sincerity . 
I appeal to thine own heart -- would it not have been better , as well as kinder , to have said , `` Esther , I do not love thee , '' than to have permitted me to follow my silly imaginings , and thereby have sacrificed my happiness for this world -- and thine -- and Hope Leslie 's ? 
And to thee , my loving -- my own sweet and precious Hope Leslie -- I resign him . 
Hope Leslie 's tears fell , like rain drops , on her friend 's letter ; and when she had finished it , she turned and clasped her arms around her guardian 's neck , and hid her face on his bosom . 
He gave Hope 's hand to Everell : `` Sainted mothers ! '' 
Her youth , her wrongs and sufferings , combined with the pleadings of Hope Leslie , obtained for her the rites of a separate and solemn burial . 
Tears , of humility and pity , were shed over her grave ; a fit tribute , from virtuous and tender woman , to a fallen , unhappy sister . 
Her trifling vexation was soon forgotten in her participation in her niece 's felicity , and in her busy preparations for the wedding ; and after that event , she was made so happy by the dutiful care of Hope and Everell , that she ceased to regret Old England , till , falling into her dotage , her entreaties , combining with some other motives , induced them to visit their mother country , where the old lady died , and was buried in the tomb of the Leslies , the church burial service being performed by the bishop of London . 
A friendship between him , and Everell and Hope subsisted through their lives , and descended , a precious legacy , through many generations of their descendants , fortified by favours , and gratitude , and reciprocal affection . 
Barnaby Tuttle , and his timely compliance with her wishes , were not forgotten by our heroine . 
Persuaded by her advice , and enabled by an annual stipend from her to do so , he retired from his solitary post of jailer , and passed his old age comfortably with his daughter Ruth , versifying psalms , and playing with the little Tuttles . 
After the passage of two or three years , Miss Downing returned to New-England , and renewed her intercourse with Everell and Hope , without any other emotions , on either side , than those which belong to warm and tender friendship . 
He was the first protestantmissionary to the Indians ; for nearly half a century their instructor , friend , and father ; and when , during the war with the terrific Philip of Mount Hope , fear had turned every hand and heart against them , and their utter extinction was regarded by most , as necessary to the salvation of the English colonies , Eliot was still their indefatigable and fearless advocate . 
