`` You have not tried , Mabel , '' said Mrs. Herbert , mildly . 
`` Yes I have , '' answered Mabel ; `` I have tried just as hard as I could , and I ca n't learn it . 
Mabel gave a quick glance out of the window from whence she had thus been observed , then looked up into the friendly face of Mrs. Herbert , and seeing there a smile , which invited confidence and disarmed her of timidity , exclaimed , with natural and childlike frankness , `` How could I study any better , when they were all having such a good time ? '' 
that is the true secret of the matter , '' said Mrs. Herbert , drawing Mabel towards her and wiping the moisture from the child 's heated brow . 
Mabel hesitated , gave a longing look at her recent play-ground , and then cast down her eyes , which were fast filling with tears . 
These Mrs. Herbert was able to supply , and soon had the satisfaction of witnessing the effect produced by her words , for Mabel gradually withdrew from her side , straightened her figure with a determined air , and exclaimed , with energy , `` I suppose I canlearn it , and I will . '' 
It was the verb am & abar ; re -- to love -- of the first regular conjugation , and a formidable task did it appear in Mabel 's eyes . 
She was , however , possessed of an excellent memory , and every requisite for successful study , and bringing , as she now did , her whole heart to the labor , she was able in less than the allotted time , to overcome all its difficulties . 
Before the hour had expired , she presented herself once more , grammar in hand , and her face bright with smiles , to beg that Mrs. Herbert would hear her recite , assuring her that she knew every word perfectly , and had twice repeated the synopsis to herself without looking on the book . 
I have been looking at the verb that comes next , and it is so much like this that it will not be hard at all , '' and Mabel eagerly pointed out the tokens of similarity . 
Mrs. Herbert , smiling at the little girl 's earnestness , suggested still further marks of resemblance , congratulated Mabel upon the advantage she had gained , and then , laying her hand upon the child 's shoulder , said , impressively , `` And so it is with life , my dear Mabel . 
Rouse yourself to this last lesson , Mabel , bring to it your soul 's best powers , pursue it with the energy which has been victorious to-day , and I shall have no fear for your future . '' 
Mabel did not quite understand at the time , the full force of these spontaneous words , which , prompted by earnest feeling , took rather the form of soliloquy , than an address suited to the child 's years . 
But they were not lost upon her . 
Like seeds of future promise , they were planted in her young heart ; memory kept them warm , and at last , matured by time , they brought forth fruits unto righteousness . 
When Mabel had reached her eighteenth year , and the summons had at length been received , which was to call the pupil from the teacher who , during more than half of the young girl 's existence , had been to her less an instructress than a parent , words of a similar import were the last warning and the last charge which fell from the revered lips of age and experience upon the listening ear of youth . 
`` Learn above all things , my dear girl , '' said Mrs Herbert , as they sat together the evening before Mabel 's departure , `` to beware of self-love , and cultivate to the utmost degree a universal charity . 
exclaimed Mabel , half grieved at the implication conveyed in her teacher 's words . 
`` I accuse you of no unamiable quality , my dear Mabel , and your generosity has always been proverbial among us ; but , when I charge you to cultivate love for others , even to the forgetfulness of self , you must not misunderstand my meaning . 
O , Mabel , there is nothing so insidious as self-love , nothing so noble and so womanly as that divine love which finds its happiness in duty . '' 
Mrs Herbert 's voice trembled with emotion as she spoke , and had anything been wanting to impress her words upon Mabel 's heart , that want would have been supplied when she looked in the face of her revered friend , and felt that the lesson she was now so earnestly imparting , was one taught her by experience and proved by faithful practice . 
Amid the pain of parting with old friends , and the joys and hopes attendant upon her entrance into a new home , this lesson , and that equally impressive one of her early childhood which it had served to call up , were both for a time effaced from Mabel 's recollection . 
It was not the power with which they were spoken , it was not eloquence nor a passion-stirring voice , nor was it the effect of time or circumstance , that stamped them so indelibly on Mabel 's heart , but nevertheless they struck upon a chord within , which thrilled at the word , and vibrating through many years , reminded her again and again of the Heavenly lesson which her soul needed for its purification . 
It was long before the page fully unfolded itself on which that lesson of love was written , and only by years of patient striving were its difficulties overcome ; but often amid the struggle did memory whisper in Mabel 's ear the encouraging assurance , that this task once learned , the rest of life 's path would be made easy . 
Such being the consequence of the mother 's supervision , it could scarcely be a matter of regret that Harry and Mabel were , for the most part , shut out from her presence and her care . 
Then followed a dreary season , long remembered by poor Mabel , when , during many tedious months , she kept on with her lonesome plays , having no variety in her monotonous life , save a daily walk with her nurse , a short visit from her often abstracted father , or a summons to the parlor , from which she was sure to be banished on occasion of the slightest childish offence . 
The well-dressed groups who assembled to pay the last honors to her who had once been the ornament of their circle , and who bestowed upon her awe-struck and sableclad daughter the epithets `` Poor Mabel ! '' 
Mabel was eight years old when her mother died , and being the only one of the children who was under the paternal roof at the time , she became the more immediate object of her widowed father 's thoughts . 
Louise had recently been sent to a fashionable boarding-school ; Harry still continued at his academy ; but Mabel must be provided for . 
As she sat on his knee one evening , about a week after his wife 's death , and his thoughts , sobered by that solemn event , and concentrated more ardently than was their wont upon his children 's future welfare , were especially bent upon the promotion of Mabel 's happiness and improvement , there darted into his mind one of those Heaven-directed ideas , whose happy and far-reaching results seem to prove the divinity of their source . 
Now , however , as he gazed in the face of his little daughter , reflected upon the disappointment he could not but feel in Louise , and resolved that a wholly different course should be pursued with Mabel 's education , he conceived a sudden desire to place her under the sole charge of Mrs. Herbert , -- the widow of his friend , -- confide to her the trust of which he felt conscious he was scarcely more worthy than his wife had been , and delegate to her the entire authority which had thus far been neglected and abused . 
The proposal , therefore , which Mr. Vaughan made without delay , accompanying it with the most generous pecuniary offers , was as promptly accepted ; and thus it happened that Mabel became , as we have seen , one of Mrs. Herbert 's household . 
The child 's coming , indeed , was the signal and forerunner of many blessings ; it roused Mrs. Herbert to hope and to exertion ; it laid the foundation for what became in time a well-established and prosperous school ; and long after , when she had acquired independence for herself , and beheld with joy the prosperity of her children , she failed not to look back to Mabel 's entrance into her household as the date of all her after success . 
Often are mercies thus combined , and far-reaching are the schemes of Providence ; but it is with their influence upon Mabel alone that we now have anything to do . 
She remained ten years under Mrs. Herbert 's care , often passing her vacations in that home which was to her the happiest she had ever known , and never , during this long period , revisiting her native city , save on the occasion of her sister 's marriage with a wealthy banker , which took place when Mabel was still a mere child . 
Here the family were assembled to participate in the preparations and festivities attendant upon the event , all of which were entered into with eager zest by Mabel , and remembered by her afterwards rather as a brilliant dream than an actual reality . 
With this exception she never left her school , save for a yearly visit to her grandmother , whose residence was within a day 's journey from Mrs. Herbert 's ; and these visits were of longer or shorter continuance , according to the old lady 's state of health , or the convenience of Mabel 's aunt , Miss Sabiah Vaughan , who continued to live with her mother , and had charge of the housekeeping . 
From these absences , however , which from one cause or another were usually of limited duration , she invariably returned with joy to her kind teacher and beloved playmates , by whom she was sure to have been sadly missed , and was always warmly welcomed back , for Mabel was the life of the household . 
And here , amid healthful influences , and under the judicious training of one of the best of women , she rapidly developed those powers and capacities which had in her early childhood found little scope for their expansion . 
Mrs. Herbert was a religious woman , and she spared no pains to impart to Mabel the knowledge and love of virtue . 
She had sound judgment and a highly cultivated intellect , and patiently sought to guide and strengthen the mind of her pupil , and store it with lasting treasures . 
She was possessed , too , of those social qualities which give a charm to home and render a fireside comfortable and happy ; and the youthful group around her were encouraged by her example to the cultivation of every endearing and feminine grace . 
Nor was she less a practical than an accomplished woman . 
She understood every branch of house keeping , every art in needle-work , and had acquired , through years of rigid practice , economy , prudence and skill , in all of which branches her pupils reaped , in a greater or less degree , the benefit of her experience . 
Thus , during ten years passed in a plain but well-ordered New England homestead , where the highest mental discipline was combined with instruction in the simplest female duties , Mabel acquired strength of principle , soundness of knowledge , cheerfulness of disposition , and useful and industrious habits . 
Meantime , her physical development had kept pace with her mental and moral growth ; pure air , healthful exercise , and wholesome diet , strengthening and hardening her frame , while with every succeeding year she grew in beauty and grace , until Mrs. Herbert gazed at length with inward pride and delight upon the fair blossom that her own hand had reared , and which had ripened beneath her very eye . 
When Mabel , at eight years of age , was first placed under Mrs. Herbert 's charge , she was a shy , unformed child , rude in her manners and speech , and wholly unused to any kind of application . 
But Mrs. Herbert was not infallible , nor Mabel faultless . 
True , the former had labored diligently for the improvement of one who , next to her own children , was the principal object of her endeavors and prayers , and had met undoubtedly with a proportionate degree of success . 
But there were faults in Mabel 's character which time and diligence had not yet uprooted ; faults of whose full extent Mrs. Herbert was scarcely aware , and which were fostered by circumstances beyond her control . 
Mabel 's very popularity among her schoolmates exposed her to danger ; and amid the varying characters with which she came in familiar contact , she could not wholly escape pernicious influences , especially during the latter years of her school life , when the number of Mrs. Herbert 's pupils had greatly increased . 
Conscious as Mrs. Herbert was of a faithful discharge of duty , and well rewarded as her efforts had for the most part been , she had too much good sense , too much knowledge of the waywardness of the human heart , to believe for a moment that Mabel was henceforth secure from temptation , or proof against its assaults . 
And , therefore , as she read the few hasty lines from Mr. Vaughan , which summoned his daughter to the superintendence of his house , and the enjoyment of city gayeties , she trembled at the thought that thenceforward Mabel must mark out her own path , unsustained by the guiding hand and almost maternal love which had thus far fostered and protected her . 
It needed , indeed , no prophetic eye to foresee the peculiar exposures and dangers which awaited Mabel 's future . 
She knew , too , the gay and thoughtless circles in which Mrs. Vaughan had moved , in which Louise now shone triumphant , and in which Mabel would be sure to be admired , flattered , and caressed . 
And because she knew all this , and because she rightly conjectured that in this new sphere no pains would be spared to gratify Mabel 's vanity , encourage her ambition , foster her pride , and administer to her self-love , did she tremble for her purity of heart and disinterestedness of purpose . 
She feared that in time of trial , when pleasure stood on one side and duty opposed to it on the other , Mabel 's unaided strength would fail in the bitter contest . 
She feared lest selfishness , worldliness , and pride , would triumph at last over the barriers of christian truth and virtue , which she had sought to rear in the young girl 's heart . 
And so , since henceforward she could protect her only with her prayers , she gave her for a watchword and a shield that simple precept , so gentle in its workings , yet so mighty in its power , -- that potent spell which disarms every spirit of evil , and is woman 's surest weapon , both of warfare and defence , -- for she sent her forth to the conflict with the armor of christian love . 
And Mrs. Herbert and Mabel never met again . 
Often would Mabel gladly have turned to this well-tried confidant and friend for counsel , sympathy , and advice . 
Other interests soon became bound up in her own , interests in which Mrs. Herbert might not share ; and only partially , and at long intervals , could she , even by letter , impart to this friend of her childhood and youth the secret cares and anxieties which burdened her woman 's heart . 
But there was a spiritual bond between them still , a bond which strengthened with time , and was tempered in adversity , for in her last warning charge , her last earnest lesson , Mrs. Herbert had imparted to Mabel the great truth that woman needs to learn . 
It slumbered awhile , then awoke in power ; at first as a still , small voice , and anon as a flaming sword , it led her on to victory . 
Mabel ` semotions on bidding farewell to the home of her girlhood were of a mingled character , pain alternating with pleasure , according as memory dwelt upon past joys , or anticipation pictured forth a brilliant future . 
Had she foreseen the length of time that would elapse ere she would again set foot in a spot endeared to her by a thousand associations , and had imagination hinted to her the changes which that time would effect , both in herself and in those she left behind , the fond whisperings of hope would have been silenced , and sorrow and regret would alone have filled her heart . 
But she had a happy , buoyant nature , and in planning schemes for many a summer excursion which should restore her to the old homestead , and many a winter vacation which should bring Mrs. Herbert and her children to share the hospitalities of her father 's roof , she forgot the possibility of the separation 's being otherwise than temporary . 
Mabel had but little knowledge of him who stood to her in this tender relation , save from his occasional visits and periodical letters ; and the former had often been suspended for years , owing to his absence from the country . 
He was , therefore , imaged to her mind as the tall , gray-haired gentleman , whom , some dozen times during her school life , she had been hastily summoned to Mrs. Herbert 's parlor to see ; each of which occasions was associated in her recollection with a holiday , a rich gift , and a drive to the railroad station , some six miles distant , to which she always accompanied him on his departure . 
His letters had been even less indicative of character than his visits ; for , although kind , they were brief and somewhat formal , and , on the whole , he inspired in Mabel more of the respect and gratitude due to a thoughtful guardian , than the trusting love which is wont to subsist between a father and child . 
It was about a year after Louise 's marriage , and Mabel , then a child , obtained Mrs. Herbert 's consent to the plan , and returned in ecstacies with the whole party , especially her beautiful sister . 
Nor in her visions of a joyous welcome did Mabel fail to give a prominent place to her little nephews , two beautiful boys , whom she had never yet seen ; and , naturally warm of heart , extravagantly fond of children , and eminently qualified to excite affection on their part , it was no slight addition to her looked-for happiness that fancy pictured these little ones bounding to embrace an aunt whom they had doubtless already been taught to love . 
But , although father , sister , and nephews all figured in the vision which Mabel mentally formed of her future home , not one of them stood in the foreground of her imagination -- for memory furnished no link which associated them with the home of her infancy . 
Bright and joyous as her anticipations were of what these relatives might become to her in the future , there were no sweet , childish recollections connected with them , to awaken the tender thoughts which cling around a parent 's hearth . 
They were all , in truth , more or less strangers to her , and her conjectures concerning them , however pleasing , were necessarily vague and indistinct . 
But there was one member of her family whose very name was suggestive to Mabel 's heart of happiness , kindred , and home . 
There was one whose relation to herself was natural and true ; who , from the cradle upwards , had shared her interests , her sorrows , and her joys ; who had been the playmate of her infancy and the confidant and companion of her girlhood . 
Her dutiful affection for her father and her admiring love for her sister were of comparatively recent growth , but memory could recall no time when she had not dearly loved her brother . 
Her mother 's neglect and her sister 's indifference were either unnoticed at the time or had long since been forgotten by Mabel ; so , too , had the brilliant and richly furnished rooms from which she had often been banished in disgrace ; but there still rose , fresh and clear to her recollection , the nursery where she and Harry played , the little hopes which they had mutually shared , and the little disappointments over which they had wept together . 
Nor were these tender memories all that had hallowed their affection ; for , while time , separation , and absence , had built barriers between the other members of the family , Harry and Mabel had been in the habit of yearly intercourse , often passing many weeks in the enjoyment of each other 's society . 
Not only did they usually meet on occasion of the annual visit to old Mrs. Vaughan , but nearly all Harry 's school vacations were passed at Mrs. Herbert 's , or at a boarding-place in the neighborhood , so that the happy home which Mabel had found with her kind instructress came to be considered scarcely less a home by Harry , who voluntarily went there for the holidays . 
A longer separation than usual intervened during two years which the latter passed at West Point ; but this was atoned for by the happiness with which Mabel welcomed the young cadet on occasion of his short leave of absence , and the mingled pride and delight with which she listened to her schoolmates ' whispered encomiums of her soldier-brother . 
And when , a few months later , he engaged in a boyish frolic , and was suddenly dismissed from the Military Academy , whose strict rules he had infringed , Mabel readily accepted his apologies , allowed herself to be convinced that he was the most injured of mortals , and loved him all the more for the injustice he had suffered . 
This long absence from Mabel , however , had only served to unite him more closely to her in interest and in heart . 
There was no corner of the old world which Harry 's foot had trod to which Mabel had not in spirit followed himl ; no city , river , or mountain which was not enshrined in her memory as the spot which had furnished Harry with some gay adventure , some historic musing , or some vision of glory ; and there was no partner in his winter studies or summer wanderings who did not henceforth stand high in her regard , because he was her brother 's friend . 
Isolated as both had been from any other strong family tie , the repose , the sympathy , the confiding love which are the most hallowed influences of home had been more fully perfected in their relation to each other , and ready as Mabel was to acknowledge the claims of the rest of her family , her heart assured her , as she drew near her father 's house , that it was Harry 's presence there which alone entitled it , in her estimation , to the name of home . 
The first intimation she had received of her brother 's return from his foreign tour , was contained in the recent letter from her father , which had summoned her to meet Harry in New York and preside over the festivities attendant upon the reunion of the long scattered family . 
It was a dismal autumn afternoon when Mabel reached the city . 
She had travelled in company with a party of Mr. Vaughan 's friends , of whose proffered attendance he had gladly availed himself , and , unfortunately for her hopes of a cordial greeting , she arrived one day sooner than had been anticipated . 
A less gay and joyous spirit than hers would perhaps have received a sudden check , at the air of soberness and gloom which the paternal mansion wore on her first entrance , at the utter silence which pervaded the hall and parlors , and the stately formality with which she was received by the grave and elderly footman . 
At first , indeed , she looked round in some anxiety , lest she had mistaken the house , especially , as the tall , stiff figure of a lady dressed in black was just disappearing , at the head of the staircase , with the air of one who is hastily retreating from the sight of visitors . 
Mabel knew of no such person in the family , and in order to quiet her doubts turned to the footman , and exclaimed inquiringly , `` This is Mr. Vaughan 's , my father 's ? '' 
A pretty waiting-maid now advanced from the end of the hall , to offer her services to her new mistress , and at the same moment , the tall , stiff lady who had been leaning over the bannisters to listen , began slowly and cautiously to descend the stairs . 
Mabel looked up , and to her astonishment , perceived her aunt , Miss Sabiah Vaughan , the last person in the world whom she had expected to see . 
Miss Vaughan partially returned the salutation , although awkwardly , and with evident effort , for she was unaccustomed to such hearty demonstrations of feeling , and putting up her hands , she began nervously to smooth down her collar , which Mabel , in her joy , had slightly disarranged . 
But although her manner was thus constrained , her face betrayed symptoms of satisfaction which were easily detected by Mabel , who was accustomed to every variation of which her aunt 's features were capable . 
Her nervous agitation , too , Mabel knew to be only the effect of pleasurable excitement , and holding her affecttionately by the hand , the young girl accompanied her up stairs , the pretty waiting-maid preceding them , and throwing open the doors of the chamber and dressing-room which Mr. Vaughan intended for his daughter 's use . 
inquired Mabel eagerly , when she had drawn her aunt into the room , and with some difficulty persuaded her to be seated . 
exclaimed Mabel ; and then followed questions and replies concerning the different members of the family . 
So , with some difficulty composing her excited feelings , Mabel resolved to occupy the intervening time in making those changes in her dress which the dust and smoke of travelling had rendered necessary , stipulating that her aunt should remain where she was , and gratify her curiosity on many points , concerning which she was far from being satisfied . 
She could not conceal her astonishment at finding Miss Vaughan apparently domesticated in her father 's house , no mention having been made of her in his recent letter . 
She appeared deeply hurt on learning Mabel 's utter ignorance of the plan , having supposed that it would be communicated to her niece as a fact of some importance . 
Mabel 's quick eye and ready sympathies , saw and understood her aunt 's state of mind at a glance ; but , although disappointed herself at her father 's and brother 's absence , and the chilly nature of her reception , her buoyant nature was far from indulging useless regrets , or dismal forebodings . 
Her spirits , on the contrary , rose with the necessity of exerting herself to please and cheer one whom she was really delighted to find an inmate of the household , and she hastened to complete her toilet , and divert her aunt 's thoughts by a proposition that she should accompany her on a tour through the house , which the young girl was eager to inspect . 
All was new to Mabel . 
Old rooms had been converted into others of far different size and construction , and even the well-remembered nursery , to which Mabel had fancied that instinct would guide her at once , had given place to an octagon apartment , lit from the ceiling , and evidently intended for a picture cabinet . 
Miss Sabiah , who was even more unaccustomed than Mabel to the display of luxury and elegance which met them at every turn , and who was overawed and oppressed by the magnificence of her brother 's house and furniture , felt a sense of relief as she observed the easy and careless step with which her niece trod the velvet carpets , and the confident and unconcerned air with which , as they passed through different rooms , she threw open the blinds , raised the curtains , and altered the position of light articles of furniture and adornment . 
Darkness , silence , and gloom , seemed to flee before her , and the shadow upon Miss Sabiah 's feelings being proportionately dispelled , she at length gave vent to her sentiments in the sudden excalmation -- `` Well Mabel , I am glad you have come to make some of these improvements . 
questioned Mabel . 
`` Why , that it seemed to him pretty much like any other old tomb ; and your father laughed and said ` Oh , well , when Mabel comes she will manage to brighten it up a little . ' '' 
Already had the halls and parlors resounded more than once with her free and joyous peals of laughter . 
`` Now for your favorite song , aunt Sabiah , '' exclaimed Mabel , as she threw open the grand piano-forte and seated herself before it . 
To sing was as natural to Mabel as to laugh , nor was it any wonderful proof of thoughtful love that she should select the song which would be sure to please her listener best . 
Mabel , however , quite unconscious of the effect of her music , had sung but a few lines , when she started from her seat , exclaiming , `` I hear my father 's voice , '' and in an instant more she had bounded down the stair-case to meet him . 
An eager word of greeting escaped Mabel 's lips at the threshold of the room , but her step was suddenly arrested by the presence of a stranger , who stood near the door , while her father , with his back towards her , was engaged in unlocking a secretary at the opposite end of the library . 
Mr. Vaughan turned , however , at the sound of her voice , and throwing on the table a large roll of papers which he had just taken from the shelf of his cabinet , he came towards her with an air of surprise , lifting his spectacles from his nose as if to make sure that the glasses were not deceiving him , and exclaiming , as he stretched out a welcoming hand , `` Mabel ? 
Mabel answered only by a glad smile ; for , before she could proceed to make any explanation of her unlooked-for arrival , she caught the sudden glance of embarrassment which -LRB- the first surprise being past -RRB- overspread the countenance of her reserved parent , at the conciousness of the stranger 's presence . 
Mabel , too , shared this sensation of awkwardness , for her father did not introduce the individual , who appeared to be a business-agent , as he had by this time unfolded the papers and spread upon the table a number of maps and charts , which he was diligently studying . 
`` You are busy , '' said Mabel , in an undertone . 
Her father hesitated , glanced toward his visitor , but still retained her hand in his . 
At the same moment , the stranger , who was handling the charts in a hurried manner , and seemed to be in haste , made an abrupt inquiry as to the extent and value of certain landed property , and as Mr. Vaughan turned to reply , Mabel slipped quietly out of the room . 
`` Father is busy now , '' said Mabel , in explanation , `` let us go back and finish the song . '' 
The song was finished , and several others had been successively sung , when Mabel , who had paused between each to listen for the stranger 's departure , at length announced that he had gone , and now at her persuasion her aunt accompanied her to the library . 
She was once more , however , doomed to disappointment , and to the mortification of feeling herself an intruder . 
The papers were still spread on the table , and on entering , Mabel thought her ears must have deceived her , for Mr. Vaughan was still attentively engaged in examining them , with the aid of another person , whose head was bent down so as to conceal his face , and whom , at a first glance , Mabel concluded to be the man whom she had heard a few moments before bidding her father good-night . 
It proved , however , to be her brother-in-law , Mr. Leroy , who had come in unheard , and who rose on her entrance and greeted her cordially , although with an absent air ; so abstracted was he that he did not observe Miss Sabiah , until Mr. Vaughan had twice introduced her as his sister , and even then he failed to notice the icy stiffness with which she returned his forced and indifferent bow . 
His manner was restless and uneasy , and after a few words of inquiry as to Mabel 's health and journey , he was evidently anxious to resume the subject in which he and Mr. Vaughan appeared to be mutually interested . 
The latter interfered , however , greatly to the relief of Mabel , who was beginning to look with an almost jealous eye upon these important charts , which seemed so many barriers between herself and her father , so many rival claims to his notice and interest . 
`` Mabel has but just come , -- I have scarcely seen her . 
Mabel asked after her sister . 
`` I think it probable she is under the hair-dresser 's hands , '' was the reply . 
`` I believe she is going to Mrs. D. 's ball to-night . '' 
Mabel expressed a hope that she would come to see her the next day , if not too much fatigued , and Mr. Leroy , having declined an invitation to dinner , took his leave . 
He was not naturally a talkative man , and Mabel had never been in his company without experiencing a consciousness of his inability to maintain an animated conversation . 
He had also many inquiries to make concerning Mabel 's journey , her travelling companions , and the hour of her arrival , and , as he drew a chair to the fire , bestowing upon her at the same time a pleased and affectionate glance , she felt emboldened to address him with something of the ease and familiarity of a privileged child . 
She also by degrees beguiled her aunt into the conversation which was fast assuming a lively tone , and before long , the little group so suddenly brought together , presented the air of a home-circle engaged in familiar fireside intercourse . 
Beneath the veil of strict courtesy towards Miss Sabiah might be detected no small degree of brotherly kindness , and although his voice dwelt with evident pleasure upon the words `` my daughter , '' his mild eye , as it turned upon Mabel , bespoke a deeper well-spring of fatherly love than any words which his lips knew how to utter . 
Nor was the gleam of pleasure any less evident which overspread Miss Sabiah 's features when Mabel insisted upon her occupying the seat of honor opposite her father , which the elder lady with an awkward show of humility was disposed to resign , but which Mabel disclaimed the possibility of filling , assuring her aunt that she alone was entitled to preside there . 
Whatever might have been Mr. Vaughan 's preference in the matter he was too well-bred to interfere , and the deference with which Mabel thus yielded to her aunt 's superior claims gratified her sensitive and watchful pride , and was a soothing balm to feelings which had been roughly chafed by her past experience . 
`` Do not sit up for him Mabel , '' said Mr. Vaughan , as , dinner concluded , he prepared to leave the house . 
Once more left to themselves , Mabel and Miss Sabiah returned to the cheerful and well-lit library ; and soon the former , taking a low seat near her aunt , begged to hear some account of her solitary journey to town , the particulars of which she had not yet learned . 
Miss Sabiah , pleased and gratified at having so ready an audience to several little misadventures of the previous day , proceeded to relate them at length , and found in Mabel an attentive listener . 
And that was Mabel . 
Strangely enough , this affection for her brother 's child was closely associated with that deep parental respect and reverence which formed so strong a trait in Sabiah 's character , and which years of injustice had not power to efface . 
For it was the fact that the child was named for her grandmother Vaughan , which first gave her a claim to Sabiah 's love . 
Nor was this strong predisposition in Mabel 's favor in any degree lessened during those periodical visits to her grandmother , to which we have already alluded . 
She was then thrown wholly upon the care of her aunt , and was in a great degree dependent upon her companionship , especially during those later years in which Harry had ceased to accompany his sister . 
Nor did Mabel fail to appreciate this kindness , and reciprocate this love . 
It was true she often wearied of her visits , and was impatient to return to her schoolmates , for Mrs. Vaughan 's house furnished but little diversion for youth . 
But Sabiah , nevertheless , had the satisfaction of seeing that she had found a place in the heart of her niece ; and this happy conviction was confirmed by the fact , that as Mabel grew into womanhood , she seemed to find not only contentment , but pleasure in her society , and gave still further evidence of her gratitude and affection by many a word , letter , and token of remembrance . 
How those words sank into Sabiah 's heart , how those letters were read and re-read , and with what fondness those gifts were treasured up , Mabel little knew . 
As little did she guess that a deep love for herself was the one green spot in a withered heart ; that it rested with her to let that heart remain a wilderness , or bid it blossom like the rose . 
How lightly the responsibility rests upon her now ; and yet she is unconsciously fulfilling it in part , while she sits with upturned and attentive face , lending a ready ear to a story of misadventure and alarm , her beautiful and expressive features , as seen in the flickering fire-light , proclaiming her warm-hearted sympathy in the tale . 
Mabel , although somewhat fatigued , would not allow herself to think of sleep until she had seen Harry ; but , compassionating her aunt , whom she suspected of one or two naps already , she proposed that they should ring the bell , inquire if the gas was lit above stairs , and then seek their rooms . 
She mentally resolved to return to the library and await Harry 's arrival , as soon as she had accompanied her aunt to her chamber and ascertained that her wants were all supplied ; but she said nothing of this intention , and after receiving Sabiah 's assent to the first proposition , she rose to summon a servant . 
At the same moment the door-bell sounded , and Mabel , who was listening intently for her brother 's footsteps , heard a merry peal of laughter , and several lively female voices . 
In an instant more , a party of ladies , in gay cloaks and full evening toilet , were unceremoniously ushered into the room , to the astonishment of Mabel and the discomfiture of her aunt , whose fit of drowsiness was at once dispelled by this unexpected , and , to her , unwelcome arrival . 
Mabel 's first glance at their visitors betrayed only surprise and bewilderment , but her face became radiant with pleasure as she recognized Mrs. Leroy , who was foremost in the group , and who , smiling at the confusion their entrance had occasioned , greeted her young sister with a manner which was at once affectionate and marked by perfect grace . 
She then turned towards her aunt , who maintained a stiff position in front of the sofa , and touched the tips of her fingers with an easy and careless air , at the same time bestowing on her dress and figure a somewhat contemptuous scrutiny . 
Meanwhile , her companions claimed Mabel 's attention . 
The one , a middle-aged lady , dressed in a brocade of butterfly hues , and wearing white ostrich feathers in her hair , waited for no introduction , declaring that forms might be dispensed with in her case , as she loved her already for her dear mother 's sake , and for the sake of Louise , who was her most intimate friend . 
She then presented her daughter , a sylph in tarleton , who pressed Mabel 's hand with a warmth which seemed an earnest of the friendship that her mother hoped before long to see existing between them . 
Mabel was both pleased and flattered . 
She believed them to have left the ball-room at an early hour , in order to bestow on her this unceremonious and cordial welcome , and she met their advances with a proportionate degree of animation and interest . 
At this moment , while they were still standing near the door-way , the bustle which attended their entrance not having wholly subsided , the bell rang again , and this time Mabel distinctly heard Harry 's step in the hall . 
As the familiar sound of his voice at the same instant met her ear , politeness gave way to sudden and joyful excitement , and breaking from her guests without explanation or apology , she ran hastily out of the room . 
They stared at one another in mutual astonishment ; but their conjectures concerning her behavior were short lived , for before Louise could follow , to learn the cause of her sister 's agitation , Mabel returned , leaning on the arm of her tall and handsome brother , who , unconscious of the presence of visitors , playfully drew her into the strongest light the room afforded , and after scanning her features with evident satisfaction , and many an exclamation of surprise and pleasure , sealed his approbation with several hearty kisses . 
Mrs. Vannecker commenced some bantering comments upon his brotherly enthusiasm , while Mabel addressed herself to the difficult task of entertaining Miss Victoria . 
If Mabel could have had her choice , she would have preferred a more private opportunity for this long-desired meeting with her brother , but now she thought nothing could be more agreeable than the pleasant little confusion of friendly voices which his coming had only served to increase , -- nothing could be more exciting than the discussion of plans which immediately ensued , -- nothing more gratifying to her self-love than the fact that all these plans had more or less reference to her enjoyment and advantage . 
And happy herself , she did not even notice -LRB- naughty girl -RRB- that her aunt Sabiah had retreated to a distance from the company , and sat with her back nearly turned towards them , moodily gazing into the fire , and apparently ill at ease ; she did not even pause to consider whether Louise might not , like herself , have forgotten to introduce her to the strangers in the party , and thus , as it were , excluded her from the conversation . 
Harry , while he expressed many regrets that neither his father nor himself had been at the boat-landing to meet Mabel , seemed greatly satisfied with the result of his afternoon 's expedition , declaring that it had been the means of his securing such a pair of horses as could not be matched in the city . 
`` Father gave me unlimited authority to make the purchase , '' said he , `` and I was determined that Mabel 's first drive should be with her own horses , and that there should not be a finer pair to be seen in Broadway . '' 
`` Her first drive must be on a round of shopping , '' exclaimed Louise . 
If you will postpone your excursion until the next day , '' continued she , laughing , `` I will see that Mabel has a bonnet suitable to the occasion . 
It was with some difficulty that Mabel could be brought to realize that they were going to the ball at this hour of the night , instead of returning as she had supposed , and as in her ignorance of city times and seasons she had thus betrayed her own more simple habits , this fact furnished a new argument for Miss Vannecker , who now insisted that it would be but common charity on Harry 's part to bid Mabel good-night , and follow them to the ball . 
Mabel accompanied her sister and her new friends to the hall door , to listen to Louise 's plans for the morrow , and receive their gay parting words , and while Harry waited upon them to the carriage , she returned to the library , exclaiming , `` O , aunt , is n't my sister beautiful ? '' 
`` How good they were , '' said Mabel , in a half soliloquy , as she followed her aunt up stairs , to come here and see us for a few minutes , when they were on their way to a ball . '' 
Mabel could not find it in her heart to impute the visit to other than the most disinterested and amiable motives , and remembering now , for the first time , that her aunt had kept aloof , and seemed an alien to their gay circle , the suspicion crossed her mind that a sense of neglect prompted the severity of her remarks . 
Anxious to atone for this , she accompanied her to her room , explained the working of the window-shades , and the management of the gas -LRB- both of which were mysteries to Sabiah -RRB- , and proposed several plans to be carried out on the morrow , for the promotion of her comfort and convenience . 
As Mabel descended the staircase which led from her aunt 's chamber , she observed a bright light streaming from a room adjoining the parlor , the door of which , although locked in the earlier part of the evening , now stood ajar ; at the same moment , she heard Harry 's voice calling to her from within . 
To her surprise , she found him stretched in an indolent attitude upon a sofa , attired in dressing gown and slippers , and evidently with no intention of going to the ball . 
But there was something in this little apartment , which appealed to that higher sense , and that more refined taste which were by no means wanting in Mabel , in spite of her light and thoughtless gaiety . 
The pictures were few , but their subjects appealed to Mabel 's heart , and she felt , rather than recognized , the power of a master 's hand . 
This was too much for Mabel 's composure . 
She had left her brother 's side to examine more minutely the attractive decorations of the room , but as he proclaimed her the mistress of them all , she hastily stole behind him , where he could not see the fast gathering tears called up by gratified feeling , and bending her head over his shoulder , she strove , by earnest words and caresses , to manifest her appreciation of his kindness , for she rightly conjectured that this little treasure-cabinet contained the gleanings of Harry 's foreign tour . 
`` You are too lavish of your thanks , my dear , '' said Harry in a lively tone , after Mabel had again and again enlarged upon his generosity , taste , and forethought . 
`` No , '' answered Mabel , `` but I read it a little . '' 
exclaimed Mabel . 
Mabel eagerly and almost indignantly repelled the suggestion . 
But there was no replying to a smile , however expressive it might be , and Mabel , not appearing to observe its meaning , turned to the Terpsichore , which stood in a little alcove , and , after expatiating upon the shame it would have been if such an exquisite thing had been injured in its removal , she inquired to whom she was indebted for its selection . 
I long to have you see Dudley , Mabel ; he is a splendid fellow . '' 
Mabel turned away to examine the picture , and , at the same time , to hide a blush at what she felt to be no ordinary compliment from a man like Lincoln Dudley . 
Although some years her brother 's senior , Dudley had been his companion , not only during a few months spent in Paris , when Harry first went abroad , but also , more recently , on a most interesting pedestrian excursion through Switzerland , Germany , and some parts of Italy . 
Thus , for years , his praises had been familiar to her , through Harry 's letters ; and , from this source , too , she had become inspired with the greatest respect for his uncommon talents , and a most romantic interest in his somewhat eccentric character . 
She was well aware that her weekly correspondence with her brother had brought her to Dudley 's knowledge , and , in some degree , to his acquaintance ; still she felt not a little flattered at his having thus studied her character , and divined her tastes , among which , enthusiasm for art was inherent , though , as yet , but little cultivated . 
asked she , with apparent carelessness . 
asked Mabel , in some surprise . 
He glanced at his watch , discovered the lateness of the hour , and , blaming himself for keeping Mabel up so late , went away in spite of her assurance that she was not in the least fatigued . 
A few moments after , Mr. Vaughan , hearing her voice , and seeing a light in the room , looked in to reprimand her for not being asleep , and bade her a kindly good-night ; after which , she was left to her own thoughts . 
Exciting thoughts they were ; and such as , it may well be imagined , robbed Mabel of sleep during many an hour of that first night spent under her father 's roof . 
What indulgence , what love , what pride were evinced in the demeanor of each member of her family towards her ! 
What plans had they already formed for her happiness ! 
Now the thought of her father 's affectionate liberality was uppermost in her mind ; then came the recollection of her manly brother , his warm-hearted welcome , and the promise of future happy days in his society ; and this , in its turn , was dispelled by the vision of her graceful sister , who seemed a fitting type of that select and elegant circle into which Mabel was soon to be introduced , and in which she already foresaw the future triumphs that awaited her . 
But there were some things which she did not think of , the very things which Mrs. Herbert had feared she would forget , and had labored to impress upon her memory . 
Not yet has Mabel learned the sacredness of her mission ; not yet has she realized its duties , or its pangs . 
For the present it is her business to be happy , and her joy to be beloved . 
Well for her , if , when pleasure 's altars are shattered , -- when self-love awakens from its dream , and life be no longer a pastime , her spirit can bow in meek submission , and the inner temple of the heart be consecrated to the service of Him whose love can impart to a life of toil and trial a foretaste of the joys of Heaven ' Mrs. Leroy ` shome was on the second floor of a fashionable hotel . 
Mabel , being but a school-girl , must be properly introduced into society , and who could be so capable as herself of superintending the festivities attendant upon her entrance into city life ? 
Certainly not any opposition on her father 's part , -- for Mr. Vaughan , while he dreaded to see Mabel become a mere fine lady , or Harry an idle fop , was , nevertheless , too easy-tempered and yielding to oppose any schemes which would tend to his children 's gratification and happiness , and , in matters of expense , it was neither his nature nor habit to place restrictions upon the extravagance of his family , -- certainly not any want of energy on the part of Mrs. Leroy , whose capacities were never so thoroughly called out as on an occasion like the present , when she was actuated by the three-fold motive of establishing her young relative in the gay world , promoting her own enjoyment , and strengthening her influence in her father 's house . 
It was the universal voice among the leaders of fashion , that nothing could be in better taste than Mr. Vaughan 's house and equipage , nothing more successful than the grand reception , held in honor of Mabel and gracefully conducted by Louise , nothing more certain than the fact , that the former would rank as the unrivalled belle of the season , and the latter continue one of its choicest ornaments . 
exclaimed Harry one morning , looking up from a daily journal and glancing mischievously at Mabel , `` it is a week to-day since your arrival in this great city , -- yes , just a week , '' added he , `` and my prediction fulfilled already ! '' 
Mabel , who better understood the allusion , continued to occupy herself with feeding Harry 's great dog , holding high above the head of her huge playfellow the dainty bits she had taken from the table , and obstinately refusing to meet the eye of her brother , which she knew to be fixed upon her . 
`` Let me disentangle that worsted for you , aunt , '' exclaimed Mabel , still feigning inattention , and taking a low seat near Miss Vaughan . 
Well done , Mabel ! 
`` I deny the charge , '' said Mabel , warmly , `` it is n't true , is it , Tartar ? '' 
and she patted the head of the dog ; `` fine ladies do n't play with great dogs , nor understand the mysteries of knitting work either , '' and , as she spoke , she drew the needles from the entangled worsted , unravelled a piece of the work , and began patiently to take up the stitches . 
but I have the proof , '' said Harry triumphantly , rising from the table ; `` here we have it in black and white , and what the newspaper says must be true , '' and he laid before her the paragraph in question . 
It was a description of last night 's brilliant ball , and among the noted beauties of the evening , Mabel 's name stood first . 
As she read the flattering description of her own personal and mental charms , an indignant flush overspread her face . 
exclaimed she , with spirit . 
`` Then you meant Mabel , '' said Miss Sabiah sharply , `` when you talked about the chrysalis and the butterfly . 
You may think it a compliment to call her a butterfly now , but I 've never seen the time yet when she deserved the name of a chrysalis , -- an ugly chrysalis . 
For my part I liked her quite as well last week as this . 
I expect you will spoil her among you , '' muttered she in an under tone . 
Do you really pretend to say that you were as fond and as proud of Mabel , when she was fresh from Mrs. Herbert 's , as now that she has the dress , the polish , and the homage of a city ? 
She was a very good girl , and one of the family , and of course , we felt a regard for her . 
But just think what she is now . 
The belle of the metropolis , the queen of fashion , with dozens of brainless coxcombs at her beck and call , and hundreds of intimate friends , who live upon her smiles ! 
`` Do n't be so absurd , Harry , '' interrupted Mabel , amused herself , but dreading lest her aunt should take her brother in earnest , or worse still , be offended at his playful sarcasms ; `` we butterflies , for you are one no less than myself , will fold our wings for awhile ; this promises to be my first rainy day in New York , and we will have a charming sociable time at home , to make amends for a week 's gaiety . '' 
cried Harry , walking to the window , and looking anxiously at the clouds ; `` no , I hope not , our Jersey excursion is to come off this afternoon , and fine weather is indispensable ; but , Mabel , how does it happen that you are disengaged ? 
Who is the chief enemy of our domestic peace , the ringleader in all these fashionable plots , despoiling us of your society , and inflicting upon us her own at will ? 
`` O , Harry , '' said Mabel , laughing , `` how ungrateful , when Mrs. Vannecker and Victoria both admire you so much . '' 
`` You are safe for to-day , '' continued Mabel ; Mrs. Vannecker and Louise are going to make visits , at some distance out of town ; happily I am off duty . 
replied Mabel , `` I assure you I have looked at those books again and again , with longing eyes ; but I ca n't find a moment 's time for anything but what Mrs. Vannecker calls the claims of society . '' 
questioned Mabel , archly . 
`` No , spare the innocent , '' said Harry , yawning ; `` give our soft-headed Louise the privileges of youth , and a chance under another leader ; by the way , what a languishing little piece of nonsense -- '' then , meeting Mabel 's astonished and reproachful glance , he hesitated , laughed , and interrupted himself with , `` Oh , she 's our sister , is n't she ? 
`` Yes , '' responded Mabel . 
Miss Sabiah 's face lighted up with unmistakable satisfaction at this proposition , but became proportionably overshadowed with disappointment when , a moment after , the impulsive Mabel exclaimed to her brother , `` Harry , I have a great mind -- '' `` Well , '' replied he , stepping into the hall and returning with his overcoat on his arm , `` we know you have a great mind , what does it suggest ? '' 
`` I know it , '' said Mabel , `` but I want so much to see the children , and they would be at home this morning . '' 
Harry whistled expressively , and Mabel , with unfeigned alacrity , declared a preference for walking ; she was not at all afraid of the rain -- was accustomed to brave all sorts of weather , and did not choose to become a hot-house plant . 
Mabel , who was just leaving the room to prepare for her walk , did not hear her aunt 's reply , but on returning , equipped for the excursion , she found Harry convulsed with half suppressed laughter , and was greeted with the exclamation on his part , `` Ah , Mabel , you are prepared for an encounter with wild beasts , I hope ; according to good authority you are going to face a monkey and a bear this morning ; both are dangerous , but one is open and frequent in his mischievous attacks , while the other sucks his claws and meditates deeper injury ; that is a fair state of the case , as proved by melancholy experience ; '' and again Harry laughed immoderately . 
Miss Sabiah 's face wore the half-vexed , half-puzzled expression which was invariably called up by Harry 's raillery , and Mabel , who was always a little apprehensive when he thus ventured to sharpen his wit on the flat surface of her aunt 's obtuseness , hurried him away , playfully remarking , that thus warned she should certainly be on her guard . 
Miss Sabiah gathered up her work , and , with the customary cloud on her countenance , was proceeding up stairs to the retirement of her own room , when Mabel paused at the hall door to assure her that she should soon return , and while in Broadway would avail herself of the opportunity to purchase a few yards of ribbon which would be required for the cap she proposed to trim . 
Miss Sabiah looked gratified at Mabel 's thoughtfulness , and the latter good-naturedly waited , while her aunt counted out from an old-fashioned purse the precise sum required for the purchase , and gave the most minute instructions concerning the quantity and quality of the article , -- Harry , meantime , impatiently shaking the door-lock with his hand . 
said Harry to Mabel , as they walked down the street . 
Mabel recounted several disappointments she had experienced , with regard to seeing her little nephews , and declared herself quite excited with curiosity and interest concerning them . 
Indeed , Mabel 's girlish spirits were so elated by the keen morning air , and the lively sallies of Harry , that in the pleasure of the walk she half forgot its object , and was fairly taken by surprise when she found herself at the entrance of the hotel , and her companion pausing to bid her good-morning . 
Exercise had imparted a more than wonted glow to her cheeks , and her face wore its most beaming expression , as , standing for a moment with her hand in Harry 's , she gayly urged him to return home in season to make one of their family circle in the evening . 
He readily promised to do so , and as she disappeared within the doorway , the affectionate glance which followed her for an instant , bespoke a marked degree of brotherly tenderness and pride . 
Having satisfied Harry 's astonishment with regard to his sudden arrival , Dudley again glanced in the direction in which Mabel had disappeared , and asked , with evident interest , `` Who is yonder brilliant constellation ? '' 
Harry felt disappointed , for he was really impatient to introduce his friend to Mabel . 
As Mabel , after parting with Harry , ascended the wide staircase leading in the direction of her sister 's rooms , she heard a loud noise , as if some one were striking the floor above with a heavy stick . 
Just as Mabel reached the top of the staircase , the girl overtook the child , and attempted , with a restraining arm , to check , him in his course . 
In the meantime , Mabel , half-smiling at the scene , kept on her way towards her sister 's apartments , which were in an opposite direction , and passing the spacious parlor and bed-room , paused at the door of a chamber beyond , which she knew to be used as a nursery . 
She knocked slightly , but perceiving at the same moment that the door was ajar , opened it and went in . 
Directly opposite to her , seated at a high table , and with his feet dangling from his chair , was one of the young gentlemen whom she had come to seek . 
He did not move or change his position as Mabel entered , but glancing at her from beneath his hand with a wholly indifferent air , said , abruptly , `` Mother 's gone out ; '' and then kept on with his reading . 
Before Mabel had time to reply , she was roughly thrust aside by the same little urchin whom she had seen in the entry , and who now rushed by her into the room , still riding on the stick , with which he made the circuit of the apartment two or three times , drawing in his chin , and opening and shutting his mouth , as if in the act of champing a bit . 
Mabel , still standing near the door , was an attentive witness of the whole proceeding . 
Alick , the bestower of the reprimand , perfectly aware that he was observed , cast upon her a half-mortified , half-defiant look , which seemed to say , `` you saw ! 
Shocked at Alick 's rudeness , and repelled by the sullen expression of his face , Mabel 's sympathies were now wholly with the younger boy , who , in spite of his wilful and riotous behavior , seemed the more amiable of the two . 
She took him , therefore , upon her knee , soothed his cries , and , with the view of relieving the astonishment of the children 's attendant , who looked at her with surprise , made haste to announce her relationship . 
As she said , `` I am your Aunt Mabel , '' Alick looked up quickly from his book , gave her an earnest and searching glance , and then looked down as before . 
Murray , however , the other , appeared careless and unconcerned on this point , but submitted to her caresses , allowed himself to be comforted , and upon being permitted to search her pockets for the confectionary which she informed him was to be found there , quite forgot his past injuries , and became sunshiny and good humored . 
Mabel could not win from him , however , any recognition of her claims upon his love . 
He received her attentions and favors as a part of the homage due to a petted child , but shook his head when she asked him if he did not remember the many kisses Aunt Mabel had sent him in her letters to mamma , and the pretty toys which came in a box at Christmas . 
Convinced by his manner , that her name awakened no emotion of interest in the boy , and failing to perceive the expression of eager scrutiny with which Alick had for an instant regarded her , she felt a momentary pang of disappointment , in the thought that the children she had been so impatient to see , looked upon her as a stranger . 
But her loving nature would not permit her to be easily repulsed , and she resolved that since it rested wholly with herself to awaken the affection of her little nephews , no pains should be wanting on her part . 
So she exerted herself most sedulously for the entertainment of the younger boy , at the same time endeavoring to excite the attention of his silent brother . 
During the half hour that Murray sat upon her knee , the increasing interest with which he gazed into the face of his beautiful young relative , and the eagerness with which he listened to her playful and lively words , were sufficient evidence of the success which seldom failed to attend her efforts to engage the ear and win the heart of childhood . 
She more than once turned from him to address a remark to Alick , but he either gave her no reply or answered in such a sulky tone , that she was at length deterred from any attempt to become better acquainted with him . 
In the meantime , there was still another in the room who , although unnoticed herself , watched Mabel with no small degree of admiration and curiosity . 
This was the young girl who had the charge of the children , and whose weary-looking face had excited Mabel 's compassion as she came up the stairs . 
Her 's was indeed a hard task , -- a task which under the most favorable circumstances , might have worn upon the strength and spirits of so young a girl , and which was rendered doubly difficult , by reason of her having in Mrs. Leroy 's employ several different parties to please , any one of which it was impossible to satisfy . 
To have the restless Murray quiet and amused for one half hour , to be spared the necessity of furnishing diversion for him , and to be permitted to sit by and listen to the pleasant words and lively sallies which were no less entertaining to herself than to her little charge , was a pleasure the more keenly appreciated because so rarely enjoyed ; and Mabel little knew with what a smile of satisfaction she was watched by another pair of eyes , beside those which beamed brightly upon her from the face of the child . 
At length a sudden gust of wind , and heavy rain drops pattering against the window , gave Mabel the first intimation that the storm which was threatening when she left home , had now commenced with great severity . 
Imprisoned as she thus was , in the hotel , and fearful lest her aunt would be anxious at her continued absence , she was revolving in her mind the possibility of sending a messenger to her father 's house , when she recognized in the neighboring passage-way the voice of Mrs. Leroy , and the loud laugh of Mrs. Vannecker . 
`` To the children , '' replied Mabel . 
Her tone was sincere when she spoke of Murray , but she turned to Mrs. Vannecker with a short laugh , as she uttered the latter clause , and both the laugh and the tone of her voice betrayed that the remark was made in irony . 
Mabel understood the insinuation and , while she wondered that her sister could speak lightly on so grave a matter as the bad temper of her own child , she said to herself , -- `` I have seen him then in his usual mood ; -- what a very disagreeable boy he must be ! '' 
They now bade Mrs. Vannecker good-morning , and Louise led the way to her own apartments , Mabel following her , at the same time requesting that some one might be sent to summon the carriage , as , on her aunt 's account , she felt the importance of returning home at once . 
But she found it impossible to resist the pressing and graceful manner in which Louise insisted that she should stay , at least until after lunch , assuring her that it was the height of folly to make herself such a slave to the whims and fears of the old lady , who , she plainly saw , was disposed to play the tyrant ; and Mabel , too easily yielding to her sister 's persuasions , consented to remain . 
As Mabel looked at them , she thought she had never seen a more interesting picture of maternal loveliness , and child-like beauty ; but the scene thus presented was as short-lived as the effect was striking ; for Louise 's vanity , both on her own account , and that of her child , being quite satisfied by this little display of tenderness , she could not long restrain the impatience and irritability which rendered such companionship irksome , and after a few moments , the rash and wilful hand of the boy having assailed the delicate lace of her collar , she thrust it hastily aside , and abruptly lifted him from the sofa to the floor . 
Louise , who was expatiating to Mabel upon the attractions of a dramatic performance to take place that evening at the house of one of the leaders of fashion , seemed at first quite unconscious of this feat on the part of the child ; but in a moment more she rose suddenly from her seat , and still continuing in an earnest strain of conversation with Mabel , took a few steps towards Murray , who was roughly playing with his prize , and snatching one end of the mantle , which lay stretched upon the carpet , endeavored to wrest it from his grasp . 
Her manner was resolute , but the boy was nothing daunted . 
Mabel , while engaging with animation upon the subject of pleasures which had for her all the zest of novelty , scarcely gave a thought to this little contest between parent and child , save as she considered it a proof of that sweet softness , and amiability of character , which forbade Louise to exercise severity , or exact obedience . 
Mabel sprung to his assistance , for , although his fall was not heavy , or from a great height , he uttered a succession of piereing shrieks , and the feared he might be seriously hurt . 
Louise started at the same moment , but Mabel had lifted the boy to his feet before his mother reached the spot . 
now , for that softness of manner of which many beside Mabel had often experienced the charm ! 
But the urchin was no unresisting victim of her displeasure ; he boldly maintained his defence , and Mabel became the witness of a violent and noisy struggle , which ended in Mrs. Leroy 's forcibly expelling the child from the room , amid a succession of kicks , screams , and threats , which would , probably , have alarmed the household , had not such outbursts been a matter of almost daily-occurrence . 
Grieved and shocked at the scene , Mabel expected to see her sister still more painfully affected by so unnatural a conflict . 
`` I am afraid he is hurt , '' suggested Mabel , `` he cried so loud when he first fell . '' 
So intent was she in considering the best mode of repairing the damage , that for several minutes she took no notice of Mabel , who gradually recovered from her surprise at the contradictions in her sister 's temper , especially as she found that this little outbreak of maternal indignation exercised no lasting check upon the merriment of the child , whom she soon heard in the neighboring nursery , engaged in happy play . 
Two or three hours had elapsed , the season of lunch was long passed , and Mabel 's conscience beginning once more to reproach her for this continued stay , she had persuaded Louise to send for a carriage . 
`` I called him no ugly names , '' exclaimed the tired-looking young nurse , appearing at the door , her face , at first pale , becoming quite red as she observed the presence of Mabel . 
If there was incivility in this remark from a young girl to her mistress , it was almost lost sight of by Mabel , who was struck by the deep earnestness and feeling with which it was spoken . 
In the violent and abusive language with which she assailed her for forgettulness of place , and neglect of the respect due to her superiors , she more than forfeited her own position as a lady , nor could Mabel fee ! 
As Louise closed the nursery door upon Lydia , she seemed to exhaust her displeasure in the words , `` there , I have done with her ; -- now I shall have the trouble of finding another nurse for those children , -- little plagues ; '' and the next moment she addressed some light remark to Mabel on the subject of her dress for the approaching evening , -- adding , `` I will go this minute and borrow Mrs. Vannecker 's ear-rings , to try if coral is becoming to me ! '' 
Engrossedwith this new scheme for the indulgence of her vanity , Louise hastened at once to her friend 's apartment , and lingered there so long , that before her return the carriage came for Mabel , who could not find her scarf , and supposing that she must have left it in the nursery was compelled to go there and seek it . 
As she opened the door unheard , and stood unperceived in the room , a sight met her eyes which excited both her sympathy and her interest . 
Her eyes were fixed and vacant , and there was an hysterical gasping in her throat , which frightened Mabel , lest the girl might be choking with an emotion which she evidently could not control . 
He seemed to be making an endeavor to soothe her , and as Mabel entered the room she heard him say , `` I should n't care for her , Lydia , -- she 's a cross old thing . '' 
At first Murray was no where to be seen ; but on taking a nearer view , Mabel perceived the little fellow , who , really affectionate in his disposition and truly grieved at his own share in causing Lydia 's distress , had crept upon the bed , and was nestled close beside her , with one arm round her neck . 
At the sound of Mabel 's voice speaking kindly to her , Lydia gave a sudden start , and the presence of a stranger seeming to act as a powerful motive for self-control , she succeeded in somewhat mastering her agitation . 
Mabel took a glass of water from the table and sprinkled a little of it on her face , as she had seen Mrs. Herbert do on a similar occasion . 
Mabel , although a stranger to such emergencies , spoke a few words of comfort to her , which drew forth in return an expression of poor Lydia 's overcharged feelings . 
Alick , in the meantime , stood a little in the background , gazing in the face of Mabel , who looked concerned for the girl , but uncertain what part to take in the matter herself . 
As , after a few moment 's pause , she turned to leave the room , she was arrested by Alick , who exclaimed , as if in further explanation of Lydia 's conduct , `` She ca n't get her money now , and its too bad ; she wanted it for her mother and Rosy . 
Mabel 's countenance evinced how much she was shocked by the boy 's unfilial language , but he did not perceive this ; his eyes were following the hand with which she now sought her purse . 
Words of bitter disappointment on her part had betrayed to the observing Alick the secret of her family 's necessity , but despite her dependent situation , she had a sensitive pride which shrank from Mabel 's becoming a partner to this knowledge . 
Mabel , scarcely less disconcerted , for she was a novice in such circumstances , inquired the amount due her for the services which were now at an end . 
`` Never mind , '' said Mabel , soothingly , and putting aside the hand which offered to return the money , `` keep it , -- do , -- and I will arrange the matter with Mrs. Leroy some other time . '' 
She was trying the effect of the coral ear-rings at an opposite mirror , and did not even turn her head , on Mabel 's sudden entrance . 
There was an awkward silence between them , interrupted at length by Louise , who , after impatiently jerking one of the ear-rings , and finally entangling it in her hair , exclaimed in an imperious and ruffled tone of voice , `` Do , Mabel , see what is the matter with this , -- I ca n't do anything with it ! '' 
Mabel hastened to extricate and clasp the refractory ornament , and then stood by the side of the irritable little beauty , who , after surveying herself for a moment with no slight degree of satisfaction , exclaimed , `` How pretty they are ! 
If I had money to throw away , '' continued she in a meaning tone , `` as some folks have , I would buy me a pair this very day ! '' 
`` Yes , they are quite pretty and becoming , '' said Mabel , with an absent air . 
She understood her sister 's allusion , and fearing she had given deep offence , was meditating an excuse for her own presumption on the score of poor Lydia 's necessities . 
Mabel , astonished at her sister 's meanness and indifference to distress , was at a loss for a reply to this unexpected outburst ; but Louise , having thus given vent to her vexation , and at the same time disowned a debt which she never intended to discharge , seemed to be immediately restored to good humor , and dismissing the subject with the same ease with which a child forgets its little annoyance at the sight of a new toy , she entered with flippant and eager gaiety upon the subject of the evening 's entertainment . 
Mabel could not so easily free herself from the agitation and embarrassment to which her sister 's words and her own awkward situation had given rise ; but , relieved to find the affair amicably settled , although at the expense both of her purse and her feelings , she lent a ready ear to all the theatrical details which Mrs. Leroy had gleaned from Mrs. Vannecker , and from Victoria , who was to take part in the performance . 
It would be a charming occasion , but it was on Mabel 's account , chiefly , that Mrs. Leroy professed to congratulate herself at the opportunity ; it would be something so new to her , and so interesting . 
Mabel hesitated . 
She was strongly tempted by her sister 's glowing description of the exciting scene they should witness , the lovely little theatre , its decorations , etc. ; but at the mention of Harry 's name , she remembered the understanding between herself and her brother , that they were to have a quiet evening at home . 
She mentioned this circumstance to Louise as a motive for relinquishing the project , and once more the good-humored smile vanished from the face of the latter , who , resuming , as it were , her previous right to be angry with Mabel , turned coldly away , saying in an offended tone , `` Very well , -- I shall stay at home then , of course ; I have no wish to go alone . '' 
Mabel 's countenance betrayed signs of indecision at sight of Louise 's disappointment and displeasure . 
She had already given offence once this morning ; she could not bear to be thought censorious or disobliging ; but what would Harry think of the proposal ? 
This last suggestion had the effect of overruling Mabel 's scruples , and just as she was on the point of departure she yielded a reluctant promise to send the carriage to the hotel , and be herself in readiness at an appointed hour , for which obliging concession she was rewarded by a radiant smile , and affectionate pressure of the hand , from the conciliated and satisfied Louise . 
But though Louise was satisfied , the case was far otherwise with Mabel ; and the shadow which , during the homeward drive , clouded her usually happy features , had its rise in many contending , contradictory , but alike painful emotions . 
A young girl of eighteen , of a happy temperament , impulsive character , and warm affections , is not likely to prove a strict or severe judge of those faults and foibles which are concealed or atoned for by a pleasing and fascinating exterior ; but Mabel , with all the romance , sensibility , and ardent imagination of girlhood , had a deep and steady love of justice , an unsophisticated sense of right , and an honest contempt for meanness and duplicity . 
She could not be blind or indifferent to those unexpected traits in her sister 's character , which the events of the morning had brought to light , and in proportion as fancy had hitherto invested Louise with mental and moral loveliness , did she shrink from the reality disclosed on a nearer view . 
The emotions awakened in Mabel 's mind , however , were somewhat indistinct and undefined , and she did not even attempt to analyze them . 
She felt , but did not reason , and the rambling nature of her reflections resulted only in a general sense of dissatisfaction and disappointment . 
The succession of vague doubts , regrets , and apprehensions , which chased each other through her mind , was suddenly put to flight as the carriage stopped at her father 's door , and a more immediate and pressing cause of anxiety forced itself upon her recollection . 
With martyr-like spirit she had declined taking luncheon , a meal of no slight importance to one of her country habits , and it was with difficulty that she could be persuaded that it was not yet too late for a biscuit and a cup of chocolate , which Mabel brought with her own hands from the dining room ; she declared that Mabel 's forgetfulness to purchase the ribbon was of no consequence , -- O , no , -- not the least : what consequence could it be whether she wore a new cap or an old one ? 
From this hopeless state of despondency it would have been in vain for any one but Mabel to attempt to arouse her ; but in the partial eyes of the aunt the favorite niece was never the chief delinquent ; and after inveighing at intervals against Louise 's growing influence over her sister , and declaring herself quite resigned to the loss of Mabel 's future society , Miss Sabiah allowed herself to be cheered and comforted by listening to the contents of a bundle of old letters , which Mabel read aloud until dark , manifesting a degree of girlish interest in the musty heap of ancestral details which truly warmed the heart of her maiden aunt . 
Both then and afterwards , Mabel carefully avoided all reference to her visit at the hotel , unwilling to excite her aunt 's prejudices by relating the stormy occurrences of the morning , and Miss Sabiah , on her part , scorned to make any inquiries concerning Louise and her mode of life , subjects on which she professed perfect indifference . 
At dinner , Mabel waited in vain in the hope that Harry , who had returned home from his excursion-party fatigued but in high spirits , would broach the subject of the theatricals ; he remained provokingly silent on the subject , however , and when , after dinner , he called for his slippers and proposed going for his flute to accompany her on the piano , she was reluctantly compelled to confess the promise she had made to Louise , explaining at the same time her own reluctance to accede to the proposal , until over-persuaded by her sister 's confident assurance that he would be delighted to accompany them . 
Miss Sabiah now began to expostulate against Mabel 's life being sacrificed to late hours and bad weather , and Mr. Vaughan taking alarm at these intimations , looked up from his news-paper to remark , that it was a very wet evening , and that he hoped she did not think of going out . 
Mabel would now gladly have retracted her promise , but Louise exacted its fulfilment , and the most that could be peaceably effected was a compromise , by which it was agreed that they should return home early . 
At Mabel 's earnest entreaty , seconded by that of her father , Harry was persuaded to accompany them , with the express understanding that he was at liberty to make his escape , if there was any attempt made to enlist him for future service among the theatrical corps . 
`` I 'm off , '' whispered he to Mabel ; then added aloud , `` there are enough of you to take care of each other , I see -- good night . '' 
If Mabel felt vexed at this inauspicious commencement of the evening , this feeling was scarcely allayed by the events that succeeded . 
Louise betook herself behind the scenes and mingled in the petty contentions of the rival aspirants ; while Mrs. Vannecker wearied Mabel 's ears with an excited recital of Victoria 's wrongs , and her successful retaliation upon the offenders . 
Long before Miss Vannecker and Louise could be persuaded to depart , which was not until near midnight , Mabel had , despite her good-nature , arrived at the uneasy conclusion that her sister and friends were making her the tool of their own love of pleasure , and ceasing to feel any interest in the histrionic disputes and failures , her thoughts became occupied with compassion for her aunt and Harry , who were awaiting her at home , and sympathy for her weary coachman and restless horses , exposed to a wintry rain , and , like herself , the victims of imposition . 
It was half-revealed in the triumphant expression of countenance which met her on her return home , and Mabel felt a deeper sense of regret than she would have been willing to acknowledge , when she learned that during nearly the whole of her absence , Harry and Miss Sabiah had been in the enjoyment of Lincoln Dudley 's society , listening to his rich strains of anecdote , poetry , and learning , borne , as her imagination suggested , into those regions of thought and fancy to which such a mind as his could not fail to lead the way . 
She even fancied there was something malicious in the relish with which Harry quoted some of his friend 's best sayings , -- something positively taunting in the assurance of her usually unimpressible aunt , that she would not probably have any opportunity during the winter to make the acquaintance of this uncommonly agreeable man , for that he had missed the cars by accident that afternoon , had devoted his only evening to them , and would leave for Philadelphia in the Sunday morning train . 
So ended a day of vexations ; and Mabel 's weekly calendar of pleasure , excitement , and gratified pride , closed with a confused but certain sense of weariness , regret , and disappointment . 
How impossible it is to please everybody , thought she , as in the retirement of her own room , she mentally reviewed the events of the day , dwelling with peculiar bitterness upon that climax of misfortunes , -- the loss of Dudley 's visit . 
And having thus come to the conclusion that it was impossible to please everybody , she composed herself to sleep with the half-formed resolve , that henceforth she would attempt only to please herself . 
Happily , neither this dangerous resolve , nor the painful emotions which had given it birth , were destined to survive a night 's repose , and the Sabbath sun shone on no more radiant face than Mabel 's , and enkindled in no youthful breast more generous impulses . 
A deeper cloud may one day settle on her pathway , and involve her bright spirit in a deeper conflict . 
Well for her then , if the powers of darkness flee away at the dawn of light , while faith whispers to her burdened heart that earth has no night of trouble and despair from which the Sun of Righteousness may not at length arise with healing in his wings . 
The duties of the day fulfilled , the children sunk in sleep , and her mistress ' evening toilette completed , the weary Lydia sought Mrs. Vannecker 's apartments , and having persuaded that lady 's good-natured maid to take her place in Mrs. Leroy 's nursery , threw on a well-worn bonnet and shawl , and promising to return in an hour , passed down a back stair-case and left the hotel at a quick pace . 
Such philosophy was not very consoling ; still Lydia 's load of care seemed lighter , now that her mother had taken up the burden ; and recalling the one bright feature in her day 's experience , she proceeded to relate the incident of Mabel 's interference , at the same time drawing from her pocket the price of her painful services , advanced to her from such an unexpected quarter . 
Lydia , once embarked on the subject , gave a faithful narrative of Mabel 's visit , with the exception of those particulars which related to her own difficulty with Mrs. Leroy and consequent dismission . 
Perhaps the walk , with the mediations to which it gave rise , left an impression upon Lydia 's mind , for her sleep that night was haunted by the vision of a dark and dreary road on which she and Jack were travelling ; sometimes Mabel seemed to be with them , leading her little nephews by the hand ; and always the path was hard , and the sky overshadowed with clouds . 
But they went on , it seemed to her , in safety , and the way grew brighter as they went , while on every cloud an angel rode triumphant , and every angel wore the face of Rosy . 
Severalweeks passed away , during which Mabel continued to enjoy an almost uninterrupted round of gaiety . 
A city belle , however , should , notwithstanding the precautions of modern luxury , be possessed of a constitution insensible to every injurious influence ; and Mabel , despite her usual high health , was not proof against the combined effects of excitement , exposure , and fatigue . 
A sudden cold , accompanied by feverish symptoms , compelled her , at length , to forego all society , save that which her home afforded ; and now for the first time , perhaps , did she learn to estimate the full extent of that solicitude of which she was the cherished object . 
Her father 's affectionate anxiety , her aunt 's assiduous and patient nursing , and Harry 's brotherly attention and devotedness , far outweighed the gratification derived from the numerous bouquets and notes of condolence which covered her dressingroom table ; and during a few days of positive illness , and a week of convalescence , she had an ample opportunity of appreciating the value of those domestic blessings and privileges , which had hitherto been obscured by the more brilliant pleasures of fashion and the world . 
This temporary and forced seclusion from society occurred , too , at the time when Mabel was first beginning to be conscious of the monotony which existed in those gay circles , which to Louise constituted the world . 
Aunt Sabiah was like a new being , now that she had the happiness of Mabel 's society and the occupation of officiating as a nurse . 
As for Harry , he seemed suddenly relieved from his wonted press of convivial engagements , and found time to read aloud to his aunt and Mabel , translate German songs for the latter , and entertain himself and torment Sabiah by rallying her upon the subject of the ill-shaped stockings which constituted her favorite knitting work , and which , although displaced in the parlor by some more elegant employment , were gladly resumed in the retirement of an invalid 's room . 
Louise was half provoked at the contentment with which Mabel submitted to a week 's imprisonment ; more especially as she felt herself in some degree called upon to enliven her seclusion now and then with her presence , a species of self-sacrifice which she found intolerably irksome . 
She always contrived , however , to make some plausible apology for the shortness of her visits , and came and went with such graceful ease , and so many affectionate inquiries and complimentary messages , that Mable was very naturally gratified by her attentions , and far from disposed to question her sincerity . 
Mabel sent for them occasionally during her short illness ; and though Harry thought it a bore to have Alick poring over a book in the corner of the room , or staring moodily out of the window , and aunt Sabiah was sure that Murray 's noise would throw Mabel into a fever-fit , these visits served , on the whole , to establish natural relations between the boys and the different members of the family , and to sow the seeds of that future influence which each was destined to exercise upon all the rest . 
How far this experience of domestic joys , with the reflections and sentiments to which it gave rise , might have served to divert Mabel 's mind from the enjoyments of gay life , and dispose her to serious and lasting considerations of her own responsibilities and powers , it is impossible to determine ; for by the time she was restored to health , and consequently to society , a new weight was added to the scale of influence heretofore possessed by the outward world , and a new sentiment engrossed both her intellect and heart , to the exclusion of all rival claims . 
Lincoln Dudley returned unexpectedly to the city , and Mabel met him under circumstances calculated to encourage and increase the romantic interest she had long cherished for her brother 's friend . 
A birth-night ball was given by one of her young friends , who , not content with urging Mabel 's attendance , both by note and message , came herself to protest against the disappointment of being refused . 
Mabel had not been exposed to the evening air since her illness , and the invitation was only accepted with the proviso , on the part of her father , that she should not dance . 
Louise declared that , under such conditions , it would be better to stay at home ; but Mabel , with her usual amiability , was glad to gratify her friend on such easy terms . 
She was surrounded by a gay group of flatteres , when she first caught sight of a gentleman , who , leaning against a mantel-piece with an easy and self-possessed air , appeared to be leisurely scanning the assembly . 
Had his previous criticism of Mabel been less marked , he could scarcely have failed to engage her attention , he was so very unlike any one she had ever met before . 
Nevertheless , he was courtly in his demeanor , especially towards ladies , and had evidently the power of making himself generally agreeable -- for , as Mabel continued her ob ervations , she could not fail to remark the eager reception which his civilities met with from persons of various ages and tast s . 
He soon disappeared amid the crowd , however , and the thoughts of the city belle were once more engrossed by the little throng of admirers who were congratulating themselves upon her reppearance in society , and who remained true to their allegiance , in spite of the music and dancing in an adjoining saloon . 
It was with some surprise , therefore , that she felt the light touch of a fan upon her shoulder , and turning , found Mrs. Leroy beside her , accompanied by the stranger , who had evidently sought Louise for the purpose of obtaining an introduction to her sister . 
Either Louise , in her haste to return to the dance , failed to pronounce his name in an audible tone , or a little confusion on Mabel 's part prevented her catching the sound distinctly ; at all events , she remained quite in ignorance of the fact that she was making the acquaintance of Dudley . 
The self-possessed serenity of his manners , however , quickly restored her wonted composure ; and she knew not how it was , that before many minutes she found herself engaged in a conversation wholly free from the restraint usually consequent upon an abrupt and hasty introduction . 
Neither did she attempt to account for the fact that , one after another , even the boldest among her attendant beaux retreated to the ball-room or elsewhere , leaving Dudley in full possession of the field . 
She only knew that she was listening to one , who , in beauty of language , originality of thought , and play of fancy , was , in comparison with those who had just left her side , like a being of a different order in nature ; and , flattered at finding herself the object of attraction to a superior mind , and inspired , perhaps , by the glance of Dudley 's eloquent eyes , she felt conscious of mental aspirations which her intercourse with society had never before awakened . 
Finding that she did not dance , Dudley obtained a seat for her , and leaning against an opposite window-frame in his wonted easy and half-indolent attitude , continued to exert his own brilliant powers of conversation , at the same time emboldening her , by his apparently careless address , to do justice to that native grace and force of intellect with which she was amply endowed . 
Not until Mr. Leroy , who chanced to be present on this occasion , came to inform her that the carriage was waiting , and Louise also in readiness to depart , did she realize the length of time in which she had been so agreeably entertained ; and , although the acquaintance of an evening only , she could not conceal from herself the satisfaction she felt at Dudley 's parting assurance that he hoped to have the pleasure of soon seeing her again . 
Harry , contrary to expectation , had not made his appearance ; detained , as it proved , by some friends whom he met at his club ; and it was not until the next day at dinner that Mabel had any opportunity to speak to him concerning the occurrences of the evening . 
Her communications then were somewhat involuntary , and only drawn from her by pointed questions on his part . 
He compelled her at length , however , to acknowledge the new acquaintance she had formed , and even drew her on to give a somewhat minute description of the individual . 
After amusing himself with her conjectures concerning him , and especially her suspicion that he must be a poet , because he had dark eyes , was guilty of long hair , and some little eccentricities of dress , and was , moreover , very agreeable , he astonished her with the abrupt remark , `` In a word , -- you have seen Lincoln Dudley , and the satisfaction seems to be mutual . '' 
A glow of delighted surprise overspread Mabel 's face at the first part of Harry 's announcement , while a quickly succeeding blush betrayed her sensibility to Dudley 's good opinion . 
Aunt Sabiah at once became interested to learn Mabel 's opinion of one who had impressed her most favorably . 
Mr. Vaughan had some curiosity concerning Harry 's friend , and Harry himself was disposed to ply Mabel with further questions . 
But Mabel perseveringly evaded all inquiries , and at length contrived to change the topic of conversation . 
It continued none the less the subject of her thoughts , however . 
How much more highly , then , might Mabel be expected to appreciate the man , who satisfied at once the demands of the most select circles , and inspired that involuntary respect which youth is ever ready to offer at the shrine of genius . 
Thus , at the time of his introduction to Mabel , he was still a gentleman of leisure , enjoying a moderate income , which was sufficient for the wants of one who , though fastidious and luxurious in his mode of life , was not disposed to reckless extravagance , and whose weight and influence in society were , strange to say , wholly independent of wealth . 
We shall soon see the effect which this uncommon influence had power to produce upon the young and enthusiastic Mabel . 
Her acquaintance with him ripened rapidly . 
But , although he frequently made one of their family circle at dinner , and was received at all hours with the familiarity of a privileged guest , these were not the only occasions which afforded him the opportunity of exciting Mabel 's interest , and winning her confidence . 
She met him everywhere in society ; and his singular powers of fascination were never more successfully exercised than when , amid the distractions of a crowded assembly , he would now and then seek her side , and , for a longer or shorter time , as the case might be , enchain her thoughts , enkindle her imagination , or excite her merriment , by drawing upon his seemingly inexhaustible stores of information , poetry , wit , and satire . 
He never danced ; and from the period of Mabel 's introduction to him her love of this amusement became less engrossing . 
Not that he sought to win her from gayer pleasures by the charm of his conversation , or strove to monopolize any considerable portion of her time . 
But , while Mabel 's general popularity continued undiminished , and she was still the ornament and life of the ball-room , her face was never animated by a more brilliant glow than when , owing to a pause in the music , or a casual movement among the company , she found herself released from her recent partner in the dance , and brought within the magic influence which Dudley 's musical voice and eloquent eye had power to exercise upon her imaginative spirit . 
All the other events of the evening might well serve to minister to her vanity and self-love , but these little episodes had a deeper significance , and produced a more subtle and lasting effect upon her heart and life . 
What wonder , then , that Mabel , unquestioned , unchecked , and unwarned , lent herself without fear or doubt to the emotion of the hour ? 
What wonder if he , whom all the world admired as the scholar , the poet , and the wit , became in her eyes the noble , the generous , the true , and the disinterested man which he should have been , -- but which , alas ! 
And shall Mabel 's trusting heart be exposed to this chilling influence ? 
Ambition , self-love , pride of heart , a deceived imagination , and a host of worldly allies , will urge her on in the dangerous path which her feet seem doomed to tread . 
Abouta fortnight after the period of Dudley 's return to the city , the patience of Miss Vaughan and the good nature of the whole family were put to a somewhat severe test , by an instance of Mabel 's generous but inconsiderate hospitality . 
Some children , at the same hotel where Mrs. Leroy resided , were seized with a prevailing epidemic , and Mabel , hearing her sister complain of a circumstance which threatened the health of the boys , cordially urged their coming to their grand-father 's , to remain until the danger of infection should have passed . 
Miss Sabiah and the much tormented servants were the chief sufferers from the introduction of these unruly and rebellious inmates ; for Mabel , when not engrossed with other objects , seldom failed to find pleasure in the companionship of her young guests . 
It was true , she was often called upon to quiet the disputes and reconcile the disagreements which were continually arising , but she had a happy , careless way of settling every vexed question to the satisfaction of all parties ; and by a mingling of kindness and authority she contrived to exercise a certain degree of government over her little nephews . 
This restraining influence was due ; in part , to the respect which her consistent truthfulness inspired in children who had hitherto been subjected to a system of artifice and bribery , and still more to the cordial interest with which she occasionally entered into their plans and participated in their enjoyments ; for , preccupied as her mind might be , nothing could dispel her earnest love of childhood and her sympathy in its pleasures . 
Thus a long-talked-of sleigh-ride , to which the boys had been looking forward from the commencement of the winter , was anticipated with scarcely less zest by Mabel ; and the snow-storm , which was its precursor , was hailed by her , as well as by the children , with unfeigned satisfaction . 
Before noon , Broadway and the principal avenues were thronged with sleighs of every shape and hue , which , with their joyous occupants and eager , prancing horses , gave to the scene the aspect of a Carnival ; while among the many rich and gorgeous equipages , none was to be seen more graceful in its style , or more complete in its appointments than that which contained the happy , blooming Mabel and her triumphant and excited little companions . 
and as they dashed gaily past Mrs. Leroy 's party , and , one after another , distanced all competitors , Mabel was obliged to grasp the arm of the excited child , lest in the exuberance of his spirits he should lose his balance and be thrown from the sleigh . 
`` Look , aunt Mabel , '' exclaimed the equally observing , but more composed Alick , `` look at that beantiful little white seashell that seems to be cutting through foam ; the wolf 's robe , the horse , and even the harness , as white as the snow itself . 
cried Murray , whose attention was attracted by this new rival , `` I 'll bet he ca n't beat our bays , wo n't you , aunt Mabel ? '' 
Mabel 's heightened color and kindling eye betokened the interest with which she watched the race , but she was far from sharing Murray 's disappointment when the snow-white steed gradually gained upon them ; and if she experienced any mortification at the consciousness of approaching defeat , there certainly was no evidence of it in the brilliant smiles with which she welcomed Dudley , as the little equipage finally came alongside . 
The latter , on his part , seemed indisposed to make any show of success ; but , satisfied with having thus achieved a parallel position , continued , in spite of obstacles , to maintain it for some minutes ; a species of compromise which , flattering and agreeable as it might be to Mabel , was far otherwise to her impetuous little nephew , who , still anxious to achieve a victory , persisted in exclaiming to the coachman , `` Hurry up , Donald ! 
Then , watching an opportunity when Mabel was most deeply engrossed with some object to which Dudley had directed her attention , he raised himself upon the front seat , and flung his missile at the head of one of the horses . 
A young lady , who was no other than Mabel , was upon her feet in an instant , and , without pausing to shake the snow from her garments , she hastened to the assistance of Murray , who , half buried in snow , was screaming lustily , but making no effort to rise . 
Alick , however , who had , from the first moment of alarm , shown a manly degree of courage and composure , had already dashed the snow from his own clothes and bounded off to recover Mabel 's muff , which was tossed to some little distance , and the ostrich feather , which had escaped from Murray 's hat , and was borne by a gust of wind rapidly down the street . 
exclaimed Mabel , speaking in a gay tone for the encouragement of her little nephew , and at the same time lifting him from his soft resting-place to the side-walk ; then , as he still continued to cry so loudly as to attract the attention of a crowd of people who were rapidly collecting around the scene of the accident , she hastily lifted the latch of the widow Hope 's door , hesitating whether or not to seek shelter within . 
Murray was , in reality , slightly bruised by his second fall , and , although he could scarcely cry any louder than he had done before , he made as much tumult as possible , and required all Mabel 's attention . 
It was almost unconsciously , therefore , that the latter was relieved of her cloak , now dripping with the fast melting snow , and it was not until the child was somewhat quieted that she even thought of attempting to remove her delicate gloves , which , thoroughly soaked , were clinging obstinately to her half-frozen fingers . 
Her bonnet , also , was so crushed as to be almost shapeless , Murray had lost a shoe , and Alick , although he made no complaint , had grazed his knee against the pavement , which he had struck in falling . 
These causes of discomfiture , trifling as they were , created no little excitement in the contracted limits which the shop afforded ; and for some minutes a general confusion prevailed , of which Rose was a silent spectator , her infirmities disabling her from being of any service . 
A chair was at length procured from the back room for Mabel , who , disencumbered of bonnet and cloak , soon made herself quite at home , with Murray sitting on her knee , and now gradually becoming soothed and quiet . 
Alick declined a low seat which was offered him , and , stationing himself directly opposite Rose , stood gazing at her with unmistakable wonder and curiosity . 
Mabel 's only anxiety now was for the safety of the coachman , who soon , however , appeared at the door unharmed , but presenting a rueful countenance , as he informed her that his master 's sleigh lay an utter wreck upon the sidewalk . 
`` No matter , Donald , '' answered Mabel promptly , `` since we are all safe . '' 
asked Mabel , with difficulty restraining a smile at the man 's utterly disconcerted countenance . 
`` O , never mind that , '' said Mabel , good-naturedly ; `` you did the best you could , Donald . 
And having learned that the horses were uninjured , and quite sobered from their recent fright , she suggested that Donald should lead them back to their stable , inform the family of what had occurred , and return with the carriage for herself and the boys . 
The man hesitated , -- expressed a fear that it would take a long time to accomplish this , especially as wheels would not run well on the snow ; and at the same time , looked around the dark shop , as if he considered it a very unworthy place of refuge for his young mistress ; but Mabel , understanding the look , declared herself quite content to remain in her present quarters during whatever time might be required ; `` That is , '' continued she , turning with true courtesy to Mrs. Hope , `` if our good friend will give us permission to stay so long . '' 
Thus assured , Mabel dismissed the man , calling to him , however , just as he was leaving the shop , and adding , `` Donald , tell Lydia that I should like to have her come in the carriage ; and ask her to bring a pair of shoes for Murray , and my cloth cloak . '' 
Mabel turned and looked at the sick child in utter astonishment at this unexpected recognition . 
`` Aunty , '' said Alick , approaching Mabel 's side and speaking in a whisper , `` I should n't wonder if that girl was Rose -- Lydia 's sister Rose . '' 
asked Mabel , speaking aloud and glancing at Rose as she spoke . 
Mabel rose and moved her seat nearer to that of Rose , at the same time displacing Murray from her knee . 
`` Alick thinks , '' said she , laying her hand on the arm of Rose 's chair , `` that this is little Rose Hope ; and I begin to think so , too , '' added she , observing the ray of pleasure which overspread Rosy 's face at her words . 
Mabel , amused and gratified at the child 's enthusiasm , hastened to express her own sense of the good fortune which had brought her to the shop of Lydia 's mother , and won that mother 's heart by the friendly interest with which she spoke of her daughter 's capability and faithfulness . 
Meantime Alick , contrary to his usual custom with strangers , entered into eager conversation with Rose , betraying , in a rapid series of questions , a knowledge of the sick child 's tastes , habits , and character , which , together with his unwonted sociability , astonished Mabel , who was unaware of the interest which Lydia 's description of her sister had awakened in the mind of the thoughtful boy . 
`` Do n't trouble the little girl , Alick , '' interposed Mabel , who was struck with Rose 's pallor and evident feebleness ; `` you must remember she is sick and will not like to be tired with questions . '' 
he will not tire me , '' said Rose , disclaiming such a possibility with an earnestness which seemed to beseech Mabel not to repress his curiosity . 
Rose assured him that he was right , and taking the box from his hand , she slid aside its ingenious fastening , and emptied the neat little articles upon the window-sill for his easier inspection . 
He had hitherto stood at a distance , out of humor and disdainful , but he now came forward a few steps , and leaning on Mabel 's knee , stood on tiptoe and peered over Alick 's shoulder at the toys . 
A briskconversation , consisting for the most part of questions and answers , was now maintained between the three children ; Rose every now and then stealing a glance at Mabel , who was observing the little trio with evident interest . 
Mrs. Hope had returned to some employment in the kitchen , which had been interrupted by the arrival of her visitors , and Mabel sat quietly watching the progress of this singular intercourse between the children , responding to Rose 's occasional glances by a smile of approval and encouragement . 
She would gladly have taken part in the conversation and expressed in some way her sympathy with Rosy 's misfortunes , but she found herself disconcerted at the first attempt , being utterly at a loss how to treat a child whose serious gravity inspired a respect scarcely warranted by her years , and the patient contentment of whose countenance forbade the pity which her infirmities would otherwise have awakened . 
So she left it to the boys to draw out the singular characteristics of their novel acquaintance , an office for which they proved themselves amply competent . 
Rose explained to them the use of various articles of which the jack-straws furnished models , interesting the boys by the clearness of her descriptions , and astonishing Mabel by the intelligence they displayed . 
Things which could never , by any possibility , have come within the sick child 's observations -- gardening utensils , carpenters and joiners ' tools , and even complicated pieces of machinery , were explained and their purposes illustrated , with a force and accuracy which fascinated the attention of Alick , and even imparted information to Mabel , while Murray stood leaning on Rose 's knee in a listening attitude , his eyes fixed reverently on the face of their youthful entertainer , who sat winding his long glossy curls around her thin and wasted fingers . 
Perhaps Mabel felt conscious of the mortifying deficiencies in her sister 's children , for she asked herself , for the first time , how it happened that the boys had never been sent to school , and had been suffered to remain in such deplorable ignorance . 
It was beyond his reach , however , and Mabel , after asking Rose 's consent , assisted him in taking it down , and placing it in an upright position on the window sill . 
As she did so she observed the chaste richness of its oval frame ; and when she resumed her seat , and for the first time saw the picture in a good light , she was struck with the exquisite finish of the engraving , and the simple beauty of the subject . 
asked Alick , who , like Mabel , perceived at once how inconsistent it seemed to be with its surroundings . 
exclaimed Alick , with feeling , at the same time looking anxiously into the face of Rose , from whose eyes , as she recalled the past , one or two tears had escaped and were slowly trickling down her cheeks . 
`` It speaks to me , '' answered Rose , smiling sweetly through her tears . 
Here Rose paused , and looked inquiringly and diffidently into the face of Mabel , as if seeking encouragement to continue the story . 
Mabel answered by rising so as to obtain a better view , while she herself listened attentively to Rose 's description of her picture . 
`` That is Hope , '' said she , pointing to a cherub figure peering above the clouds , with its hand outstretched , and its eye fixed upon a light spot in the distance , which seemed intended to represent the glow of a brilliant sunset . 
The boys looked intently -- so did Mabel -- but neither detected the proofs which seemed so evident to Rosy . 
Mabel kept silent , but the boys confessed their ignorance . 
`` Those are his virtues , '' added Rose , after another pause , during which her listeners stood carefully scanning the objects she had pointed out ; `` it was Charity that went with him and helped him strew the flowers , -- do n't you see he has a basket in his hand ? 
Rose looked up at Mabel and smiled . 
`` That is the staff of faith , '' said she , `` he leans on it when he is tired . '' 
That is the Eternal City , Alick -- the city of our God , '' added she , solemnly , laying her thin hand on Alick 's arm ; `` we are all travelling on the same road as pilgrim , -- and we must try to strew flowers behind us as we go . '' 
Murray was only capable of comprehending the former , but Alick caught an idea , faint indeed , but still impressive in its character , of the lesson which Rose 's story had partially revealed to his untaught soul ; and Mabel , who , in spite of good principles and high aspirations , was a child in religious experience , felt awed by the simple teachings of virtue , and subdued by the sublime power of truth . 
asked he of Mabel , `` I 'm hungry . '' 
said Mabel softly , unwilling to make further claim upon the widow 's hospitality by the expression of any new wants ; we shall go soon ; it is time for Donald to be here now ; '' then bethinking herself of the best mode of repaying those attentions which she had already received , she proposed to make some purchases from the widow 's stock . 
It was difficult to make a selection of articles in any degree appropriate to her station in life , Mrs. Hope 's goods being intended for the accommodation of her own humble neighborhood . 
With the children 's assistance , however , she contrived to expend , in trifling purchases , all the money she had in her purse ; and Murray had just received into his arms the gorgeous , but long-neglected parrot , when the shop door was suddenly thrown open , and Lydia entered with a flushed and excited countenance . 
She was laden with shawls and wrappers , which , in addition to the articles sent for by Mabel , had been despatched by her anxious aunt , and was so breathless with haste and astonishment that Mabel strove in vain to obtain from her an intelligent reply to her inquiries , what had become of the coachman and horses , and why she herself had come thither on foot . 
The half-laughing , half-crying girl , overjoyed at the safety of Mabel and the children , and excited to the last degree by the circumstance of their having taken refuge in her mother 's shop , could only embrace Rose and the boys by turns , uttering , meanwhile , interjectional phrases , expressive of her own and Miss Sabiah 's fears , and the prompt action of Mr. Dudley , whose name was strangely mingled with her exclamations . 
Finding it impossible to calm her , Mabel hastily opened the shop door , to satisfy herself whether or not the carriage was in sight , and as she did so , encountered Dudley at the very threshold . 
She blushed with pleased surprise , not having in the least understood Lydia 's broken communication , and the color deepened in her cheeks when he seized her hand with an eagerness that betrayed his anxiety on her account , -- an anxiety which evidently had not been wholly quieted by Donald 's assurance of her safety . 
`` We have been hospitably , and even agreeably , entertained here , '' answered Mabel ; `` the boys and I have made the acquaintance of a sick child , who proves to be the sister of their nurse ; she is an interesting little creature , -- do come in and see her , Mr. Dudley . '' 
Mabel made haste to repel this suggestion , assuring Dudley that the child 's illness was chronic , and not of a contagious character , and that the room , though naturally close , from its low , damp situation , was otherwise comfortable , and in all respects neat . 
He smiled complacently at the warmth with which she defended her place of refuge from unjust aspersions , and , as if to satisfy her that he had no fears on his own account , stepped within the door , and still holding it ajar , awaited her pleasure . 
As there was no motive for further delay , the little party were not long in making ready to depart ; especially as Mabel had previously resumed her cloak and bonnet , now restored by Mrs. Hope 's care to their original appearance , and Lydia had recovered her composure and partially equipped the boys for their return home . 
Mabel was much touched at the deep feeling evinced by Rose , as she spoke her simple farewell , expressing in a few words how happy the visit had made her , and pressing Mabel 's hand to her lips with mingled respect and fervor . 
`` I will come again , Rose , '' said Mabel , in a low voice . 
She would gladly have said more , being anxious to testify in some way the tender sympathy she felt for the little invalid . 
But Dudley stood looking on ; he would mentally accuse her of affectation or parade ; so she contented herself with the promise to repeat her visit , and with a lightly spoken good-by , took her friend 's offered arm to accompany him to the carriage , leaving the boys to follow with Lydia . 
Although the hour passed in the widow 's humble dwelling had been replete with interest , the sudden change from the confined atmosphere and narrow limits of the shop to the bracing air , active exercise , and brilliant spectacle afforded by the crowded street , had a corresponding effect upon the spirits of Alick and Mabel . 
Mabel , meanwhile , flattered by Dudley 's marked interest in her safety , and rejoicing in the exuberance of youthful spirits , excited the increased admiration of her companion by the variety of her conversation and her natural and eager enjoyment of the gay , wintry scene . 
The inborn dignity , grace , and animated sweetness of manner , which had fitted her to take at once a distinguished place in society , might have existed independently of that child-like enthusiasm which was , perhaps , the most interesting feature of her character ; but this latter trait had at once been discerned by Dudley , and , cautious as he was of yielding to impressions , its charm had completely fascinated him . 
The prevailing character of the incidents in which their walk invited them to participate , was that of mirth and laughter ; but an opportunity soon occurred for the further and more complete development of Mabel 's ready and universal sympathies . 
poor little fellow ; '' exclaimed Mabel , who reached the spot at the moment of the accident , and whose compassion was at once excited by the expression of blank dismay which overspread his childish face at the sight of his lost and wasted property . 
The boy , hearing a kindly voice , and seeing the shadow of some person who evineed a pitying interest by coming to a full stop , looked up from the wreck on which his gaze had been hitherto fixed , and met the glance of Mabel 's eye with such a look of appeal as went straight to her heart . 
said Mabel , glancing from the face of the boy to the spilt coal and useless basket ; and , as the mournful eyes , now fast filling with tears , still spoke a touching entreaty , a moisture gathered in her own , and her hand , as usual , sought her pocket . 
Alick , who had been lingering behind , now came up , and , with childhood 's quick instinct , reading the whole story , exclaimed eagerly and confidently , `` Oh , Aunt Mabel , do give him some money ! '' 
The consciousness of this did not flash upon Mabel , until she had drawn the little silver reticule from her pocket and exposed her destitution ; then blushing with mortification and disappointment at having encouraged the child 's hopes , to dash them the next instant , she turned to Dudley , supposing that the act had awakened his observation , and would induce him to supply her deficiencies by a prompt contribution on his part . 
He stood at the distance of a step or two , quietly surveying the scene with an interested and amused air , and , although manifesting no impatience , seemed to be viewing Mabel 's proceedings as those of a capricious child indulging a wayward impulse . 
Mabel could not be sure whether he perceived her embarrassment ; but it being very evident that he felt no disposition to charity , she was reluctantly compelled to restore her purse to her pocket , and leave the child to bear his misfortune as he best might , with no other encouragement than that conveyed in a kind word . 
`` My money is all gone , '' said she ; `` I am sorry , -- perhaps some other lady will give you a sixpence . '' 
She spoke confusedly , and with evident regret , which increased to actual pain as the little fellow replied , with sad simplicity , `` It 's very hard to find a lady that 'll give me a sixpence . '' 
Grieved as she felt for the little fellow , there was nothing more to be said or done , and the next moment she was continuing her walk , exchanging salutations with gay friends , and listening to Dudley 's conversation . 
`` Oh , I have seen a great many miserable objects already , '' said Mabel ; `` enough to make my heart ache ; but that little fellow interested me particularly , he had such a plaintive look ; '' and Mabel sighed , as her thoughts again recurred to the unspoken appeal which had moved her so forcibly . 
`` Why , you surely do not think -- '' exclaimed Mabel , in surprise -- `` That that was an accident done on purpose ? '' 
said Dudley , in continuation of her query , and smiling at her genuine astonishment ; `` perhaps so -- perhaps not ; '' and he shrugged his shoulders expressively . 
And having thus involved what had previously seemed a simple appeal to charity , into a complicated case of political economy , Dudley gracefully and easily waived any further consideration of the difficult question , by resuming his analysis of the merits of Picciotti 's Beggars , and leading Mabel 's thoughts into the wide field of beauty and of art . 
Here he was completely at home ; and , with his wonderful gift at description , and his unrivalled and varied powers of entertainment , he completely enchained her attention for the remainder of the walk . 
That evening , however , as she stood in front of a brilliant fire which was burning in the dining room , and heard the cold wind whistle round the corner of the house , she thought again of the little boy and the spilt coals . 
He might be an impostor , the very prince of rogues , but , despite her reason , instinct and good heart whispered otherwise , and , do what she would to restrain them , painful visions rose before her of dreary garrets , where half-starved children and despairing mothers crouched beneath scanty coverings , and cried and shivered with the cold . 
Mabel 's experience and knowledge would not warrant her in deciding the comparative claims of beggars and philanthropists ; but one thing at least was certain , misused as her bounty might have been by the boy , it 's bestowal would have left a blessing with the giver . 
As it was , she could only sigh for the poverty which was beyond her reach , and soothe her regret with the newly awakened idea , that a too liberal distribution of money was dangerous , and might defeat the best interests of society . 
Not that she could persuade herself that it would have done harm in the present case , for she felt an honest conviction of the truthfulness of her first impressions . 
Who shall say , however , that her heart warmed as readily towards the next child of misfortune that came in her path ? 
or , that the spirit of distrust once awakened in her hitherto unsuspecting bosom could be easily laid to rest ? 
Amongthe engagements of the following week , there was one of a somewhat different character from the gay assemblies which constituted the chief social enjoyment of Mabel 's circle . 
Harry , while he voted these old Knickerbocker affairs pretty slow concerns , declared it an object to see things done up in good shape once in a while ; and Mabel , for all these reasons combined , and , perhaps , also from the knowledge that the hostess was a near connection of Dudley 's , looked forward to the evening with unusual interest . 
She would never have dreamed , however , of mingling in society ; and was satisfied , for her part , with the simple enjoyment derived from the sight of her favorite Mabel , richly attired , and appearing on each new occasion more beautiful in the eyes of her aunt . 
Therefore , on the evening in question , she experienced no small satisfaction from the survey of a superb dress , worn for the first time by Mabel , and her elation reached its height as she observed the ill-concealed envy which it awakened in Louise , who entered the dressing-room just as her sister 's toilette was completed . 
It was no wonder that the partisan spirit of the aunt was gratified , for Mabel certainly outshone herself . 
She wore a white flounced silk , each flounce being bordered with a pattern of delicately wrought green leaves and half-blown roses , and the graceful garland of flowers on her hair was in perfect harmony with the Parisian fabric . 
The waist fitted closely to the throat , where a collar of point lace was fastened with a brilliant spray of diamonds ; and sleeves of the same delicate material as the collar , lightly draped her wellrounded arms . 
Louise , whose little , fairy-like form never looked so well as in the light and gossamer fabrics in which she floated or whirled through the dance , felt a sharp pang of jealousy , as she noted the almost regal figure of her sister , set off to advantage by the closely-fitting and heavy material which would have severely tested a less exquisite shape than Mabel 's . 
`` I hate to go to these half-and-half parties , '' said she , in a sharp and irritable tone , as she drew out the folds of her velvet dress to give it a more graceful flow , and straitening her figure at the mirror , tried to believe herself just the right height , and Mabel a little too tall . 
I 've half a mind not to go ; '' and although she could not resolve to stay away from an entertainment which anybody else thought worth attending , Louise contrived by her ill-humor to make herself and every one about her so uncomfortable , that her friends were glad at last to arrive at their destination , and to see her established in one of the corners she had spoken of , where , with Victoria Vannecker , and a little knot of companions , she amused herself with making comments upon the company . 
Mabel felt , from the first moment of her entrance , the total dissimilarity between this and most of the fashionable parties which she frequented ; but , unlike Louise , at once recognized its superiority . 
But , although this species of homage was an undoubted triumph , there was no evidence of gratified pride in the demeanor of Mabel , whose sparkling eye and intelligent smile denoted an eager interest and an animated pleasure in the conversation of a select group , of which she was the central attraction . 
Conscious , as she could not fail to be , of her power of pleasing , she , nevertheless , employed it without affectation or artifice ; and in whatever estimation her success might be held , no one could fail to acknowledge that it was fairly won . 
Unwilling as Dudley was to yield allegiance to any single object , and often as he absented himself from her neighborhood , to pay his addresses elsewhere , an irresistible attraction drew him back , and a short interval only would elapse , before his clear tones would mingle again in the conversation of the little group , to which his racy and eloquent , or occasionally abrupt and ironical , contributions invariably imparted additional zest ; nor did the consciousness of his vicinity fail to give an added glow to Mabel 's features , and a renewed lustre to her eye . 
`` There is talent there , '' exclaimed a first-rate lawyer , significantly glancing at Mabel , with whom he had been conversing . 
`` Your sister is a young lady to be proud of , '' said a somewhat taciturn old bachelor , who , standing near Louise , had been silently observing Mabel . 
Louise now turned to Miss Vannecker , and exclaimed , in a low and half-confidential tone : `` It is very ridiculous for Mabel to stand there , directly in the centre of the room , and talk to everybody that chooses to be introduced to her . 
She 'll make some most absurd acquaintances ! '' 
A little later in the evening , when Mabel was listening , in a reverential manner , to the conversation of the interesting clergyman , Louise and Miss Vannecker paused as they were crossing the room , and the former remarked abruptly to her sister : `` You have chosen a conspicuous place for holding your court , this evening , my dear ; the news-papers to-morrow will describe the assembly room , and say the centre ornament was a flower-piece of exquisite form , consisting of successive tiers of rose-wreaths , surmounted with a garland ? '' 
Mabel blushed and looked somewhat disconcerted , but innocent of any intention at display , maintained a dignified composure , and , covering her vexation with a smile , confirmed the good opinion already formed of her by her new friend . 
Anxious , therefore , to free Mabel from the slight embarrassment which he detected in spite of her assumed serenity , he availed himself of the first opportunity to invite her to visit the conservatory , which contained a choice collection of plants . 
Mabel , relieved by the proposal , the thoughtful delicacy of which she fully appreciated , gladly accepted his offered arm for the purpose . 
While admiring , however , his knowledge of every species of plant , including the rarest exotics , and sympathizing in most of his preferences , Mabel was astonished at his indifference to many of her favorites , especially among the common wild flowers of our fields and woods . 
She could not resist paying the tribute of affection to these wayside friends , and in answer to his inquiry -- which of all the summer blossoms she preferred ? 
she answered frankly , `` If you ask me which I love the best , I must confess , though you will wonder to hear me say so , -- the dandelion -- the friendly , yellow dandelion . '' 
`` I truly mean so , '' said Mabel , earnestly ; `` it comes so early and stays so long . 
Why , did you never , '' exclaimed she , forgetting for the moment that she was addressing the polished man of the world , -- `` did you never sit on the grass and make long chains of the hollow stems , and sigh to think how frail they were ? '' 
`` Then you can not imagine , '' said Mabel , her enthusiasm a little damped by his manner , `` how many happy hours I associate with their common , familiar faces . '' 
`` I suppose not ; but I nevertheless love flowers for the sake of association , '' said Dudley ; and , stooping down , he picked up a sprig of mignonette , which she had held in her hand a moment before and then thrown negligently away . 
Mabel blushed as she observed the action , and if at the same moment she did not feel absolutely ashamed of her love for dandelions , she was ready to confess it a childish folly , for which she had no right to expect the sympathy of grown people . 
In the criticism of works of art Dudley was even more skilled than in the analysis of the floral kingdom ; and he next directed Mabel 's attention to a number of paintings and statues which adorned the spacious hall adjoining the conservatory . 
Under his tutelage Mabel had already acquired some little skill in judging of an artist 's merit , and almost fancied that she could distinguish between the works of rival schools . 
She was still so unsophisticated , however , as always to bestow her first thoughts on the subject , rather than the execution of a piece ; and her attention was at once attracted by an ancient-looking picture , representing an angel-messenger bearing to Heaven the tidings of a sinner 's repentance . 
The seraphic beauty of the countenance , the joy , love , and holy triumph which it depicted , inspired in Mabel an emotion of religious awe . 
observed he , without appearing to notice the sentiment it had awakened in Mabel . 
Whether copy or counterfeit it had its value , as was evident from the emotion it had awakened in Mabel ; but she had no further opportunity to examine it . 
The seraph face having been pronounced the guilty medium of a deception , she was hurried away from it by Dudley , who assured her that it was a daub -- a mere imposture , not worth a moment 's study . 
Two figures of Mercy and Truth absorbed Mabel 's notice , and were , in many respects , the finest in the collection ; but Dudley could see nothing in the former but a most remarkable distortion in the little finger ; and the latter , unless his eye was more incorrect than usual , betrayed a slight disproportion in the size of the throat . 
Her step , too , was firm -- almost elastic -- and her hand rested lightly on the arm of the portly officer Mabel 's eye followed her with curiosity not unmixed with respectful admiration , as moving leisurely up the hall she acknowledged the courtesies of numerous friends , and at length approached the spot which Dudley had chosen as a favorable point of observation . 
`` Here comes the salt of the earth , miss Vaughan , '' said he , in a tone of irony ; she is leaning on an arm , too , of the highest respectability . '' 
`` They are a noble-looking couple , '' said Mabel with warmth , at the same time turning to him with an inquiring eye , as if she would gladly hear more concerning them . 
`` That woman , '' continued Dudley , `` is generallissimo of the forces of modern innovation -- the chief of a battalion of amazonian philanthropists who carry all before them ; she will drag us before a court-martial , '' exclaimed he , feigning a sudden alarm as she drew near . 
`` She seems to carry only peaceable weapons , '' said Mabel with a smile ; `` and allowing it were otherwise , what have we done to expose ourselves to an attack ? '' 
The venerable lady of whom Dudley ventured to speak so lightly had just encountered some young girls , who were crossing the hall , and as she stood for a moment conversing with the more sprightly of the two , her hand rested tenderly on the head of the other , a slight , fair-haired creature , who looked up at her aged friend with a countenance full of affectionate respect . 
It had seemed to Mabel , as she saw the evident affection the old lady inspired , that nothing would delight her more than to be honored with her friendship ; and although Dudley 's manner somewhat damped her enthusiasm , she could not resist watching every motion of one whose appearance seemed to rebuke ridicule . 
Mabel still continued silent , revolving her companions words , and waiting to hear more . 
Dudley lowered his voice , as he concluded , for the subject of his remarks was now within a few steps of them , and , as if in confirmation of his fears , had fixed her eye upon him intelligently . 
`` I have no fears , '' answered Mabel , `` I am not the object of her notice . '' 
There was such a mingling of humor and satire throughout this conversation , that Mabel could not possibly determine whether a single word of it was spoken in earnest ; nor was she convinced that Dudley 's anxiety to avoid the lady was otherwise than feigned . 
Still his words and conduct were not without effect , and her generous , confiding disposition was tinged with unpleasant conjectures . 
So impressed was she , indeed , with a suspicion of the old lady 's eccentricities , that when the latter paused directly in front of her , she was fully prepared to be addressed , without the ceremony of an introduction , and was consequently somewhat disconcerted when a person seated behind her , and whom she was unconsciously obscuring , laid a hand upon her arm and said , in a gentle voice , `` I think that lady is looking for me : will you please move a little to the right ? '' 
Mabel instantly stepped aside , and as she did so , brushed against a pair of crutches , which , falling to the floor , revealed the helplessness of the object of her seeming incivility . 
As she stooped and restored the crutches to their owner , at the same time apologizing for her unintentional rudeness , the sincere grace of her manner called forth an approving smile from Madam Percival , who , however , took no further notice of her , but entered into conversation with the interesting lame lady , and before Dudley returned with the iced sherbet , accompanied her and Gen. Percival into another room . 
Later in the evening Mabel accepted , with her usual good nature , an invitation to join the youthful dancers , who had taken possession of the music room and wanted one more couple to complete their set . 
Young as she was , they were nearly all her juniors , privileged to be present on this occasion , which partook of the character of a family jubilee , and her boyish partner scarcely equalled her in height . 
She entered with ready glee , however , into their juvenile gaiety , and won the hearts of the youthful company by her sympathy in their enjoyment . 
It was an old-fashioned country dance , and Mabel , after faithfully fulfilling her part , reached the bottom laughing and out of breath . 
exclaimed her partner , stepping gaily within the open door of an adjoining room , and addressing Madam Percival , who , while watching the progress of the dance with evident pleasure and interest , was conversing in an animated manner with the gentleman in the long-bodied coat , whom Louise had denominated Father Noah . 
She smiled and nodded pleasantly in acknowledgment of the boy 's congratulations ; and Mabel observed that each successive couple , as they came down the dance , exchanged with her similar tokens of satisfaction . 
`` This performance was undertaken for grandmother 's benefit , '' said Mabel 's partner to her , by way of explanation . 
As the boy named his mother he glanced affectionately towards the lady who was presiding at the piano , and Mabel , for the first time , observed that the owner of the crutches had been furnishing the youthful party with music . 
What a charming bond of sympathy subsists among these people , thought she ; and that remarkable old lady is evidently the connecting link . 
I am sure of it , '' thought Mabel , `` but what could Mr. Dudley have meant ? '' 
The ingenuous tribute of praise , and the intruding inquiry which followed it , were alike indicative of Mabel 's impressible character . 
In the former her heart spoke out , in the latter might be detected the haunting influence of an enkindled doubt . 
Itwas not strange that Mabel was susceptible to the subtle influence of Dudley 's insinuations , for she possessed a quick and active mind , ever open to the teachings of those whose knowledge and experience might entitle them to be the guides of youth . 
It was , indeed , one of her sweetest , gentlest , and most womanly qualities , which made her thus open to conviction ; and great , therefore , was the responsibility incurred by any who presumed to check the genuine impulses of her nature . 
Not that Mabel was alike destitute of character and principle , ready , like the pliant wax , to be moulded by every fluctuating circumstance . 
On the contrary , she had a high sense of duty , a stern reverence for virtue , and a noble desire to excel , while certain fixed principles of right served as the outposts to guard the citadel of her conscience . 
Thus , although Mabel 's temper might occasionally be irritated , and her good nature put to the proof by Louise 's flagrant and open violations of truth and justice , her character stood in far less danger from this source , than from the plausible , specious , and yet pernicious opinions and principles which Dudley intimated , rather than openly avowed . 
The day succeeding the evening above described , was that on which Mabel held a weekly reception for guests , when , as usual , she was assisted by Louise , who seldom failed to be present , to share the honors and responsibilities which might accrue . 
These consisted of accurate and beautiful representations of foreign costumes , and Dudley , Mrs. Leroy , and Mabel , were examining them with interest , for the purpose of selecting characters for an approaching fancy ball , when there was a sudden ring of the door bell . 
said Mabel , and with girlish curiosity she stepped within the shadow of a bay window , and looked out into the street . 
`` There is no carriage here , '' said she ; `` it must be father or Harry . '' 
As she turned from the window , however , she observed Mrs. Leroy carelessly twirling a card round her forefinger , and at the same time giving a hasty message to the footman from whom she had received it . 
and she glanced reproachfully at Mabel . 
A ray of manifest pleasure shone on her face , as she ejaculated , in a low voice , and a manner full of expectation , `` Oh ! 
Louise , with a scornful expression , resumed the study of the plates , while Mabel , apprehensive of some rudeness on her sister 's part , walked towards the door to receive her guest , her countenance evincing some surprise and embarrassment at the unexpected visit . 
After waiting a moment , however , she heard the hall door close , and the footman retreat into the back passage . 
A new light seemed to break in upon her at these significant indications , and she turned upon Louise with the sudden inquiry , `` Can she have gone ? '' 
`` I have , '' said Mabel , decidedly ; `` did she ask for me ? '' 
`` She certainly did , '' answered Louise , assuming a somewhat defiant manner , as she observed the color mount into Mabel 's cheek , `` and I did you good service , and saved you from a most intolerable bore , by sending word that Miss Vaughan was not at home , -- for which , I think , you might at least thank me . '' 
exclaimed Mabel , expressing in the simple enunciation of her sister 's name all the amazement , regret , and mortification which were roused by this cool declaration -- for there was not even the conventional excuse for the falsehood , it being Mabel 's reception day . 
Louise , who , however much she might be in fault , was always ready with a retort , met Mabel 's indignant expression of censure with the retaliating and cutting observation , `` Do not be so angry , my dear , Mr. Dudley will think you are a vixen . 
When father Noah comes , '' added she , in a mockingly soothing tone , `` you shall give your own orders , and have his society all to yourself , for I trust I shall not be present to share the honor , '' and with her usual light laugh and tripping air , the little lady stepped to the open piano and commenced playing a lively tune , accompanying it with the words , `` Oh , no , I shall not be there ! '' 
The righteous indignation which had overspread Mabel 's face , and given rise to her sister 's accusation of anger , now yielded to an expression of grieved and wounded feeling , and a tear glistened in her eye , as she said , with a mildness that was truly dignified , `` I am not angry , Louise , but I am sorry on every account ; '' and then , embarassed at the consciousness that Dudley 's eye was upon her , she hastily walked to the bay window , and , half hid beneath the shadow of its heavy curtains , watched the retreating figure of Madam Percival , who , in serene unconsciousness of irreverent treatment , was moving leisurely down the street . 
Mabel still stood engaged in painful meditation , when she was slightly startled by Dudley 's voice close beside her , saying , in a low and sympathetic tone , `` I am sorry , too . '' 
asked Mabel , confusedly . 
`` Oh , it was not that , '' said Mabel , quickly ; `` I beg you not to think me so childish ; '' and her eye again followed Madam Pereival , -- `` but she is so much older than I , and she came on foot , too , -- besides , '' added she , with simplicity , `` I amat home . '' 
`` Very true , '' said Dudley ; and then ensued a momentary pause ; for to condemn Louise was scarcely to satisfy Mabel , and it seemed impossible to give the matter an agreeable turn . 
asked Mabel , looking at him with some surprise . 
Mabel 's countenance fell , and a shadow passed over her face . 
`` It was not myself , then , '' thought she , `` who was capable of inspiring interest , but my father 's position , and the length of his purse . '' 
Mabel smiled . 
Mabel laughed outright at the ludicrous and , in point of taste , repulsive picture thus represented . 
I have almost made up my mind to be comedy , if you will only be tragedy , Mabel . '' 
`` I have been suggesting tragic characters to your sister , '' said Dudley , with readiness , `` but I do not think any of them exactly meet her approbation . 
Some fifty years hence , '' added he , in a side voice , to Mabel , `` will surely be time enough to hide your smiles behind the black hood of a sister of charity . 
And in the indulgence of idle fancies that succeeded , the venerable Christian matron and her noble schemes of usefulness passed from Mabel 's mind ; or , if remembered , the former was henceforward dimly characterized as one who had desired to divert Mr. Vaughan 's wealth to her own quixotic enterprises , and decoy his daughter into sacrificing her youth to painful and , at best , unprofitable labors . 
It was not until nearly a month after Madam Percival 's visit , that Mabel bethought herself of the necessity of acknowledging the civility ; and this she did by merely leaving a card at her address . 
It was lost upon most of the company , who were strangers in the city ; but Mabel , who overheard this second barefaced falsehood , and stood aghast at the presumption of her sister , could scarcely contain her agitation and annoyance ; while Harry 's eye flashed angrily from the opposite end of the table , and Mr. Vaughan 's mild countenance betrayed signs of discomfiture . 
This high-bred facility in playing the part of a gentleman , which always imparted to Dudley an extremely obliging air , was never more appreciated by Mabel than in this instance ; for her indignation at the conduct of Louise was only equalled by grief at her aunt 's wounded feelings . 
His seat was between her 's and her aunt 's and as he turned from the latter and met Mabel 's approving glance , he remarked , in a low voice , `` Miss Vaughan 's nerves are sensitive . '' 
`` Very , '' said Mabel , glancing anxiously at Miss Sabiah , who was now attempting monosyllabic replies to her next neighbor on the other side . 
His countenance plainly expressed it as his opinion , that of the two sisters , Mabel was best entitled to the place at the head of her father 's table , and he even expressed himself more plainly in the words , `` Miss Vaughan is , I presume , a visitor merely , and scarcely endowed with the qualifications for playing the part of a hostess , -- but Miss Mabel is unquestionably the presiding genius here , and we naturally look to see her enthroned in the chair of state . '' 
`` He is right , '' thought Mabel ; and for the first time she realized her aunt 's awkwardness and ignorance of society , felt her own competence to shine in the position Miss Vaughan had hitherto occupied , and half regretted the generous , and , as it now seemed , inconsiderate impulse , which had prompted her , on her first return home , unhesitatingly , to resign it . 
Mabel had a sincere love of her native country , a strong faith in its republican institutions , and its Heavendesigned destiny among nations , and when the conversation of some talented members of the company took a political turn , her interest and attention were at once awakened . 
More than one political party were ably represented , but the discussion was conducted in an amicable though earnest spirit , and all were united in the depth of their patriotic zeal for the honor and welfare of their country , and a deep conviction of the influence she was destined to exercise in the establishment of liberal principles throughout the world . 
Mabel 's face glowed , and her eyes sparkled , as she listened to the hopeful and stirring prophecy of one , who , having survived several administrations , watched the working of our governmental system , and exulted in the growth of truth and justice in the national heart , ventured to predict , that the day would come at last , when , purged from the stain of entailed abuses , she would become a perfect model for future republics . 
`` You are a politician , I see , Miss Vaughan , '' said Dudley , who had watched her with an interest equal to that with which she had watched the speaker . 
exclaimed Mabel , turning suddenly towards him and blushing , as she always did at the consciousness of her betrayed enthusiasm , `` Oh , no ! '' 
`` Hardly that , '' replied Mabel . 
`` I hope , '' said Dudley , with a tone that was calculated to chill the ardor of her feelings , `` that you will not , on the other hand , see this much-boasted confederacy sink as low in the scale of nations as my fears predict . 
The elements of disorganization and failure are already at work ; it is astonishing to see the blind confidence with which these self-styled statesmen endeavor to uphold , with high-sounding words , the crumbling edifice of national prosperity ; '' and , turning to the individual whose eloquence had inspired Mabel with a kindred zeal , he begged a solution of some of those difficult and intricate problems in the future career of the republic which distract the common mind and tax the best abilities of the wisest . 
The question called forth a response , which , in its turn , gave rise to a short but spirited debate , conducted ably on both sides , but with especial skill on the part of Dudley , whose opponent was no match for him in clearness of argument and subtle force of reasoning ; and not Mabel alone , but older and wiser heads than hers , were compelled to acknowledge the justness of his apprehensions , and almost felt the social fabric totter beneath them , as he enlarged upon the imminent peril which threatened it . 
`` The gentleman has an astonishing confidence in the elements of which this community is composed , '' said Dudley to Mabel , when conversation around the table had again become general ; `` he seems to place great reliance too on the Divine partiality . 
The inquiry was specious , and acted powerfully upon Mabel 's mind , for there was no one to suggest the reply , -- that in the Christianity of the nation lay the true safety of its children , and the hope of its future glory . 
A little while ago , and Mabel was one among the crowd who wore no such veil , and bent beneath no such weight . 
Her motions were free , her smiles genuine , and her heart light . 
But the case is altered now ; the immunity exists no longer ; and Mabel is changed . 
It is not that her health is undermined , though the roses have paled a little in her cheeks ; nor is it the effect of satiety , for the new element , which a superior mind has had power to infuse into her daily life , has lost nothing of its charm . 
Yet the once buoyant , happy , careless Mabel , is suddenly and strangely changed . 
The dull-eyed world notes it not ; even affection is blinded to the fact , and scarcely does her own heart acknowledge its painful but unutterable burden . 
Still its influence penetrates every spring of action , and modifies every thought ; for , hid as it might be from others , and struggled with as it might be by herself , Mabel , the hitherto light-hearted Mabel , has something on her mind . 
Whatever it may be , it is something of a saddening nature ; for the spirits which were wont to be spontaneous are now forced and fitful ; it is something alarming , if one may judge from the nervous starts and occasional tremblings which are significant of anxiety and dread ; it is something secret , for she tells no one , maintains an assumed composure herself , and scans the faces of others with eager scrutiny . 
Her altered habits , moreover , betray a corresponding change in her feelings , motives , and designs . 
She no longer approaches the breakfast-room carolling a gay song , or trips with a light step to her aunt 's door , and bids her a lighter good morning , -- but pauses within her own room , listens for the footsteps of the rest of the household assembling for the morning meal , and when she makes her own appearance , glances around the table with a troubled air and an inquiring eye . 
And when she returns at night from those gay scenes , into which she plunges with more eagerness than ever , she seems quite forgetful of the rest which youthful weariness is wont to crave , and , dismissing her maid , paces her room with unequal steps , looks out of her window at the night , or , noiselessly turning the door-lock , moves through the house like a ghost , listening at cracks and peeping through key holes ; then , startled by some slight noise , retreats hastily within her own room , perhaps brushes away a tear , and retires for the night with a lamp still burning . 
In society , also , many and frequent are the indications which , though unmarked by others , betray to one observant eye , at least , the secret fear which is ever present to her thoughts . 
The quick flush upon the countenance , the rapid and excited conversations upon subjects of trifling interest , the nervous start on being suddenly addressed , and an occasional absence of mind -- all bear witness to the fact , which it is now the chief anxiety of her life to conceal . 
Yes , even her pathway , sunny as it seemed , stretches across those dreary wastes which humanity is doomed to tread . 
She , like the rest , has taken up her burden , and must bear it as best she may . 
It came upon her suddenly . 
A premonitory shadow , indeed -- an undefined dread -- had once or twice taken possession of her mind ; but the blow aimed by cruel hands finally struck home without preface or warning . 
She was sitting for her portrait to the very artist who had been so earnest to obtain the opportunity , and who , with Dudley 's recommendation in his favor , met Mr. Vaughan 's ready encouragement . 
The festivities having been prolonged until a late hour , it was with some reluctance that Mabel made the effort to keep her appointment with the artist ; but his time was valuable , and she was unwilling to disappoint him . 
Miss Sabiah usually accompanied her on these occasions , but as the venerable years and character of the portrait painter rendered her presence superfluous , and the coachman had taken his horses to be shod that morning , Mabel proceeded alone and on foot to the studio , requesting her aunt to send the carriage to meet her at an appointed hour . 
Mr. Geraldi , whose conversational gifts rivalled those of the pencil , and who seldom failed to relieve the monotony of these sittings by his agreeable discourse , had this morning enlarged with more than ordinary enthusiasm upon topics connected with his profession , and either accidentally or with conscious tact , had , by a warm eulogium upon his friend Dudley 's knowledge and taste , called up in Mabel 's face that expression of animation and interest which he was most anxious to transfer to his canvas . 
A wide screen , which stretched the whole length of the apartment , concealed Mr. Geraldi and Mabel from the observation of the visitors , but their loud voices and extravagant mirth were scarcely less embarrassing to the artist than their actual presence would have been ; more especially as , however he might profess to despise the criticism of the uninitiated , he could not be wholly insensible to the unqualified comments which they bestowed upon his works . 
Mabel blushed , recognizing as she did the voices of some of her friends , and anxiously anticipating some more cutting sarcasm . 
Well might she tremble -- but not for the artist ; the poisonous shafts of these idle tongues were destined to take a nearer , closer aim , and pierce her own heart . 
Mabel 's lips , as she listened , curled with a slight expression of scorn at these unwelcome and preposterous projects of alliance . 
Mr. Geraldi , who with his head bent over his palette had been mixing a few colors , while he impatiently awaited the departure of the talkative group of visitors , now looked up at Mabel , with the view of resuming his labors at the easel , but could scarcely believe that he saw before him the same face which he had been studying a few moments before . 
Thought was almost suspended in Mabel , but memory and imagination had called up in vivid colors a long array of living facts , upon which her mental gaze was riveted . 
`` Yes , '' said Mabel , in a broken voice , and scarcely knowing what she said , `` I will go now ; '' and rising , she mechanically resumed her cloak and bonnet , and walked to the door , forgetting , until she had nearly left the room , her customary salutation and farewell , which were at length performed with but little of her wonted grace . 
She had gained the sidewalk before she even thought of the carriage , but then perceiving that it had not arrived , she walked slowly up the street , and turning , walked back for a little distance , -- and this she did , again and again , unconscious of observation , and thankful only to be in the fresh air and alone . 
called Donald , as she was unconsciously passing the carriage , which had at length reached the artist 's door . 
Louise was at home , and Mabel found her attired in a rich dressing-gown , and lying on a sofa , too much fatigued with the dissipation of the previous evening to attempt any exertion . 
Not till she was seated opposite to her sister , and a pause succeeded the usual interchange of civilities , did Mabel ask herself for what purpose she had come . 
`` O , Mabel , '' continued she , languidly , and settling herself more comfortably on her pillows , `` how strong you are ; why , I hardly felt able to go to the breakfast-table , after the fatigue of last night . '' 
`` You danced more than I did , '' said Mabel with an absent tone , and the half-timid , half-searching glance at her sister , which she had worn from her first entrance . 
How do you manage , Mabel ? 
However , '' continued she , without waiting for a reply , `` you are not so passionately fond of it as I am ; I was brought up to it . 
Once launched upon this topic , Louise did not pause until she had detailed , for Mabel 's benefit , the successive tributes of flattery which had poisoned the ear , first of the child , and then of the woman , up to the present period ; and Mabel , to whom these petty parades of vanity were nothing new , breathed more freely as she listened . 
She could never be thinking of herself , and of such trifles , if she knew what I know , thought Mabel ; and she felt a sense of relief in the idea that there was one of the family , at least , who was ignorant of Harry 's disgrace . 
At length , after Louise had roamed from one frivolous topic to another , for the space of half an hour , failing amid her own volubility to take note of Mabel 's unusual silence and constraint , the latter rose to go . 
`` Do hand me that cologne , Mabel , '' said her sister ; and receiving the bottle from Mabel 's hand , she poured some of its contents on her handkerchief , and applied it to her forehead . 
`` I believe I have got a headache to-day , '' drawled she , `` I feel very dull and stupid , at any rate ; I suppose it 's the champagne I drank last night . 
Close the shutters , will you , Mabel ? 
added she , laughing . 
Mabel 's hand trembled , as with her back to Louise , she attempted to close the shutters , and her voice betrayed no slight agitation , as she answered , `` Why ? '' 
Mabel made no answer , except by rattling the latch of the shutter , which she tried in vain to fasten . 
Mabel turned slowly round , lifted her long lashes , and fixed her eyes full and wonderingly upon her sister 's face . 
`` Do n't look so shocked , '' exclaimed she at length , a little irritated by Mabel 's silence , which was far more expressive than any words of which she could have made use ; `` you are just like Mr. Leroy . 
But , la , Mabel , how solemn you look , '' added Louise , almost angrily . 
Mabel was not slow to avail herself of the hint which this action afforded , and now hastening from the house , gave the coachman the unhesitating order to drive home . 
In that one long , silent look which she had fastened upon her sister 's face , she had pierced , as it were , to the depths of that shallow and worldly nature , -- she had measured the wide difference between her own vehement heart-throbs , and the feeble pulsations of feeling in Louise , and had learned the sad truth , that in the deep experiences of life she must seek in vain , in this direction , for a sister 's counsel and sympathy . 
Not to her father , who , she trusts , may long be left in ignorance of his son 's misconduct ; not to her aunt , who would inveigh against it with a severity of which Mabel could not bear to think ; and of higher and heavenly aid , though she was far from denying its power , she had not yet learned to avail herself . 
So , for the first time in her life , as she sought her solitary room , she felt herself truly alone , -- alone with an aching sorrow . 
With what crushing force did it weigh down and paralyze her heart ! 
The world might excuse the folly at which it laughed so lightly , the frivolous might defend , and the weak applaud , but Mabel could only tremble and weep . 
She looked not to the end , she measured not the fearful consequences that might ensue in the future ; her feelings had received too severe a shock to admit of any other consciousness , than that of a deep and irreparable calamity . 
Harry , her noble brother , a laughing stock and a by-word ! 
It was too much ; and the necessity for self-control being past , she threw herself on her bed , and gave way to a paroxysm of grief . 
Who shall tell the agony of the mental conflict that she experienced ? 
It is sufficient that she rose from that suffering crisis a new and altered being . 
The iron hand was upon her which moulds the child into the woman , and she went her way , shrink ing beneath its cruel touch . 
Henceforth , her inner and outer world were no longer in harmony . 
The drama of her life was double , and she had two parts to play . 
Mabel became conscious that a barrier had arisen between herself and her brother , before she suspected its cause . 
Perhaps , had she been less engaged with a new sentiment , she would have felt more keenly the gradual withdrawal of Harry 's confidence , and would have probed more deeply the secret of his seemingly diminished affection ; at least , she would have asked herself why it was that their pleasures , interests , and tastes , which had hitherto lain in the same direction , had ceased to be in harmony . 
As it was , the conviction that Harry was in some degree supplanted in her own heart , forbade her to question too closely any want of devotion on his part ; and if she occasionally felt wounded at his reposing less trust in her than formerly , she doubted her right to complain of a reserve which she knew to be in some degree mutual . 
And yet , while Mabel had no anxiety so great as to conceal from him her participation in his fatal secret , her very anxiety betrayed her ; and he became instinctively conscious that his innocent sister was suffering for his misdeeds . 
Scarcely less bitter to Mabel 's heart , however , were the averted or stealthy glance , the unexplained absence , the constrained silence , or the ill-timed hilarity , which proclaimed a mind ill at ease . 
To shun the society of her aunt and father became at length scarcely less an object with Mabel , than to avoid encountering the eye of Harry . 
She never paused to ask herself whether it was wise or right to shrink from meeting , face to face , the calamity which she saw no way to avert ; but blindly following the instinct of nature , she sought to flee from the harrowing dread which , nevertheless , pursued her like a shadow . 
Thus she now rushed more recklessly than ever into that life of excitement and fashion which , in reality , had lost for her the charm that it once possessed , seeking in the gay and heartless whirl of society to drown the bitter fears and forebodings which pressed painfully upon her in her home . 
It must be confessed , too , that her first agony of regret at Harry 's disgrace had been succeeded by a less disinterested emotion , as she thought of the mortification it would entail upon herself ; and , shrinking from the companionship of her brother , she almost unconsciously gave the preference to those scenes of gaiety from which he would be sure to absent himself . 
The time had been when Mabel would have repelled every pleasure or honor which Harry might not share , and would have scorned to possess any interest distinct and separate from his . 
The school-girl of six months ago would boldly have declared , that in the face of all the world she and her brother would fall or rise together . 
But the Mabel of to-day , be it remembered , was not the simple-hearted pupil of Mrs. Herbert . 
Thus striving , as she did , to free herself from the consequences of Harry 's misconduct , the gulf between the brother and sister was widening day by day ; and Mabel , if not aiding in the downfall of the misguided youth , was lending no hand to rescue him from ruin . 
Nor did she escape the mortification which she was so anxious to evade . 
Frequently did her cheek blanch , and the light word tremble on her lip , as she suddenly became conscious of Harry 's unexpected presence on an occasion when she had least apprehended his approach . 
Sometimes he would enter the assembly-room at a late hour , his face flushed with wine , and his voice elevated a pitch above its usual tone ; sometimes she would meet him on her drives , careering through one of the avenues in an open gig , drawn by a steed noted on the race-course ; and more than once he had attracted attention to her opera-box , by the boisterous conversation and merriment with which he had disturbed the rest of the audience . 
In the eyes of some of Mabel 's fashionable companions these might be evidence of spirit ; but -- to her credit be it said -- her good sense , no less than her sensitive affection , were keenly alive to the disgrace and censure which they merited . 
Such experiences , and the apprehension of them , were sufficient to cloud her joyousness . 
Mabel 's excitable , and apparently inconsistent demeanor , exposed her to misconstruction , and that , too , in a quarter where she was most anxious that her conduct should be favorably interpreted . 
In the early stages of her acquaintance with Dudley , when he merely sought a mental stimulus in the satisfaction of awakening her genius and developing her intellectual nature , he had felt no disposition to put a check upon her lighter enjoyments , and had been coolly indifferent to competition . 
But , in proportion as he realized the power he had gained over her mind and heart , did he become jealous of any interference , real or imaginary . 
He made no open profession of that deeper interest with which she had inspired him -- an interest which had awakened in his sophisticated soul something like a genuine emotion . 
Their manifestation , however , took precisely the form which might have been anticipated from one of his distrustful character ; and often did Mabel find herself controlled by a jealous tyranny which she could not understand , or grieved by a displeasure for which she could not account . 
It was easy , however , to submit to a tyranny which usually took the form of watchful devotion , and to allay a displeasure which was seldom more than momentary ; and until the period when Mabel 's mind became harassed by contending emotions , no serious cause of alienation had arisen between herself and Dudley . 
But experience now proved that , although there was no one who could so effectually win her from the painful thoughts by which she was oppressed , Dudley was not her most efficient aid in moments of sudden agitation . 
Her only refuge , then , was in assumed gaiety ; and it often happened that there was an individual in her vicinity who possessed at once the ability and the will to second her efforts at animation , and afford her the most easy and obvious means of concealing and overcoming her mortification and chagrin . 
These available qualities were always at Mabel 's disposal , for Mr. Marston was one of a numerous throng who perseveringly sought to render themselves acceptable to the belle of the season . 
Anxious only to maintain her composure , at any cost , Mabel did not realize the undue encouragement she was bestowing on her highly flattered admirer , or the severity with which Dudley inwardly commented upon her coquetry and frivolity . 
One evening , however , when , being more than usually oppressed by anxiety , she had sought to divert her feelings and ward off the observation of others , by accepting Mr. Marston 's invitation to join in a rapid and giddy dance , she was startled , on coming to a pause , by perceiving Dudley standing directly opposite to her , with an expression of unmistakable scorn upon his features , while Harry was at the same moment rendering himself conspieuous , by bestowing upon Miss Vannecker , in an audible tone , a series of absurd compliments , which he would never have uttered in his sober senses . 
He despises me , thought Mabel , for my frivolity and seeming indifference to what every one must perceive . 
But , too proud to bend beneath the weight of his displeasure , she returned his salutation with haughty coldness , and accepted Mr. Marston 's invitation to take another turn in the dance . 
Bitter , almost heart-breaking , were Mabel 's reflections that night . 
For the first time , she began to doubt the wisdom , the propriety even , of the course she had thought proper to adopt , in order to veil her actual sufferings from the eye of the world . 
Even Dudley , thought she , believes me heartless ; for attributing to him a worthier motive than that by which he was really actuated , she never doubted that it was his warm friendship for Harry which caused him to be shocked at her levity ; nor dreamed that it was an overwrought and involuntary jealousy on his own account , which prompted his sarcastic comment upon her apparent enjoyment of Mr. Marston 's society . 
And thus mistaking , as she did , the cause of his disapprobation , nothing could exceed her regret at having given offence to the friend who , valued as he had long been , was never so deeply prized as in this her time of painful and humiliating sorrow . 
His desertion of her at this crisis seemed more than she could bear . 
Disappointed in her brother , blamed and forsaken by him whose voice had hitherto been a charm against utter despondency , and dreading the watchful eyes of her father and aunt , she dared not fathom her own unhappiness ; but , continuing her customary round of engagements , performed her part with automaton accuracy , masking her face in smiles , and crushing down the emotions to which she dared not give way . 
Duringthe fortnight that Dudley continued absent from the city , which was also the limit of his estrangement from Mabel , the only companionship from which she obtained any relief was that of her sister 's children . 
Her efforts to win the affections of the boys had not been without success ; and each in his way gave evidence of a strength of attachment to their young aunt , which she , in her turn , reciprocated with all the warmth of a loving heart . 
The shout of joy with which Murray hailed her presence , was only equalled by the glow of unspoken pleasure which overspread the face of Alick , and their mutual admiration of their aunt Mabel was the one point on which they never disagreed . 
Murray 's restlessness subsided into happy , childish enjoyment , when he was permitted to climb her knee at the twilight hour , and prattle to her of the events of the day ; and nothing made him so supremely happy , as to fall asleep at night with his hand locked fast in hers . 
Often , while he was visiting at his grandfather 's , had Mabel loitered from the fashionable dinner party to listen to the little nothings which he was so eager to impart ; and more than once her rich evening dress had swept the carpet while she knelt beside his couch and soothed his infant slumbers . 
Both nature and habit had made Alick independent of caresses ; but the gratified look with which he glanced up from his book the first time she questioned him upon the subject of his reading , had taught her the way to his heart , and the boy never again had reason to complain that no one was interested in his pleasure and improvement . 
She had her reward . 
Childish love is a refreshing balm to the soul ; and nothing so quieted her restless spirit as to feel around her the pressure of Murray 's little arms , and observe the sturdy manliness with which Alick , on all occasions , appointed himself her attendant and champion . 
She had nothing to dread , moreover , in her intercourse with the children . 
They would neither suspect her uneasiness , nor seek to pry into its source , and experiencing a sense of security in their presence , Mabel availed herself of their society on every possible occasion . 
One Sunday they accompanied her home from church after the morning service , and , the early dinner being concluded , followed her , with their pockets full of nuts , into the little apartment adjoining the drawing-room , which she could never enter now without feelings of inexpressible sadness . 
The boys seated themselves in the window and commenced eating their nuts , while Mabel wandered listlessly about the room , reading , in its abundant decorations , the evidences of Harry 's affection , and wondering where he might be spending the Sabbath , for she had not seen him since morning . 
She paused in front of her richly inlaid writing-desk , and , lifting the lid , took up a little heap of letters recently received from her former teacher and schoolmates . 
They were in reply to some she had written a few weeks ago in all the extravagance of youthful spirits , and their tone grated strangely on her present feelings . 
The dear girls congratualted and envied her , and her beloved friend , Mrs. Herbert , believing her to be happy , wrote only a brief message of affection , sympathizing in the pleasures of her lot , and gently cautioning her not to be too confident of their continuance . 
She closed the desk , and taking a book threw herself upon the sofa and tried to read ; but her mind wandered from the page , and , after indulging a long fit of gloomy meditation , she rose and walked to the window , where the children were watching the numerous passers by . 
asked she , moved by a sudden impulse to run away from her thoughts . 
The boys ran for their coats and hats , while Mabel prepared for the excursion with an air of indifference strangely at variance with her once elastic movements . 
They had proceeded some distance down one of the avenues , without any special destination in view , when Alick suddenly exclaimed , `` O Aunt Mabel , why ca n't we go and see Rosy ? '' 
`` We can , '' said Mabel , `` if it will not be too long a walk for Murray . '' 
They found the windows of the little shop closed , with wooden shutters ; and the door , too , was fastened ; so that Mabel 's repeated knocks were unanswered . 
Disappointed at having come so far to no purpose , and fearful that some misfortune had befallen the family , she looked about her to find , if possible , some other mode of entrance -- and , at length , proceeding to the end of the building , discovered a low , dark alley , which appeared to lead to the rear of the dilapidated tenement . 
She felt some hesitation in entering this unexplored passage-way , but it was no part of her character to be turned from a worthy purpose by the indulgence of idle fears , and bidding the children follow her closely , she penetrated to the extremity of the alley , and found herself in a narrow yard , enclosed by mouldy walls of brick , encumbered with rubbish , but extending , as she had conjectured , across the rear of the entire building . 
Several doors opened upon this common court-yard , and she was at a loss to distinguish that of Mrs. Hope , when the widow herself emerged from one of them with a pail in her hand , and was proceeding in the direction of the pump that stood against the wall ; but seeing and recognizing Mabel , she gave a quick start of surprise , and , setting down her pail , came to meet her , with an air of mingled pleasure and embarrassment . 
The latter feeling partially subsided , as Mabel made haste to apologize for her seemingly clandestine entrance , and inquired with cordial interest concerning Mrs. Hope 's welfare , and that of Rose . 
You wont disturb them , '' added she , observing that Mabel hesitated -- and , stepping within the woodshed at the rear of her own contracted tenement , she threw open the door of the kitchen , and motioned to Mabel to advance as far as the threshold . 
She did so without attracting observation , and , holding up her finger , she enforced silence upon the boys , who also pressed forward and peeped in . 
Rose was seated in her little arm-chair in the centre of the room , and around her were grouped some half dozen children , none of whom could have been more than seven or eight years of age . 
Their eyes were fixed upon Rose 's face , while she repeated , slowly and distinctly , the last verse of the hymn they were singing . 
But it was sweeter and more touching still to see them , when the hymn was finished , assume a kneeling posture , and repeat after her the words of the little closing prayer with which they were accustomed to separate . 
The tears started to Mabel 's eyes , and with instinctive deference to the solemnity of the service , she retreated at its conclusion , and , drawing Alick and Murray back into the outer shed , closed the door noiselessly , that the little company might not be conscious of intrusion . 
`` They 're mostly German children , '' said Mrs. Hope to Mabel , in explanation ; `` this is a German neighborhood , rather ; they ca n't get much education in the schools for want of knowing the language . 
exclaimed Mabel earnestly , `` yes , indeed , it is everything . '' 
And Mabel felt what she said . 
Alick and Murray were no less impressed than Mabel , as was evident from their awe-struck silence and inquiring faces ; there was no opportunity , however , for any further expression of interest , for a confused murmur within the room was followed by the sudden exit of the little band of children , who , after casting curious and lingering glances at Mabel and her nephews , dispersed in different directions -- while Mrs. Hope ushered the freshly arrived visitors into her neat though humble kitchen . 
Rose , somewhat exhausted with her labors , had thrown herself back in her chair , but she revived at sight of Mabel , and exclaimed with fervor , `` O dear Miss Mabel , how glad I am to see you ! '' 
It was with something like reverence that Mabel seated herself beside Rose on a low stool , from which one of the children had just risen , and taking her little shrunken hand , pressed it with affectionate fervor . 
`` I am glad to see you looking so well , Rose , '' said she , gazing into the child 's face with a warm expression of interest . 
`` She really has a color in her cheeks , '' observed she to Mrs. Hope , who stood watching Rose 's countenance with mingled pleasure and anxiety . 
`` You are tired , Rose , with teaching your little class , '' said Mabel . 
And then , as if anxious to turn the conversation from herself , she addressed numerous inquiries to Alick and Murray , both of whom had pressed close to her side , asking them concerning Lydia , their mamma , and the mode in which they had come thither . 
Now and then she turned her smiling countenance upon Mabel , with deep and admiring affection , her glance in some degree expressing the two-fold happiness which she experienced in the presence of one in whom her own loving nature recognized a kindred spirit , while the appreciation of the beautiful , which was inherent in the little invalid , found in this new friend the perfect and only illustration of its ideal . 
It was with mingled emotions that Mabel perceived the influence she exercised . 
As she met the admiring glance of Rose , a glow of self-satisfaction overspread her face , such as all the flatteries of the ball-room could not call up . 
But this sentiment of gratified vanity was chastened and subdued by an unwonted sense of unworthiness , which forced itself upon her as she compared her own aimless life with the self-devotion of the invalid child . 
Mabel 's easy cordiality disarmed all embarrassment and reserve , and even the awkward constraint of the widow Hope was not proof against the considerate kindness of her manner . 
Rose 's week-day employments , and her Sabbath labors and pleasures , were enumerated and discussed , and Jack was for the first time brought to Mabel 's knowledge , through the frequent mention which was made of him . 
Into all this Mabel entered with ready interest , while a corresponding sympathy was expressed in return , in the countenances of both Rose and Mrs. Hope , when allusion was incidentally made to the circumstance of her having been motherless from her childhood . 
Observing Rose 's eye wander towards him , Mabel turned , saw the nature of his occupation , and starting forward , checked his play and rescued the volume , at the same time saying , good-naturedly , `` Murray , do n't kick the poor old book . 
`` It has done good service , '' said she . 
Mabel opened it ; it was an ancient copy of `` Pilgrim 's Progress . '' 
As she turned over the leaves she directed Alick 's attention to the fact , that it was a copy of the same work she had bought for him , at his own request , a few weeks before , when he chanced to be with her in a bookstore and took a fancy to the richly-bound and beautifully illustrated book . 
As he finished speaking , his quick eye detected the mortification which Rose 's face evinced at his unflattering comparison ; and , regretting his thoughtlessness , he at once endeavored to atone for it , by exclaiming -- `` Rose ought to have one like mine , aunt Mabel . '' 
`` She shall have one , '' said Mabel , unhesitatingly . 
Alick 's face glowed with delight as , without giving Rose time to reply , he proceeded to expatiate to her upon the rich binding , gilt-edged leaves , and illuminated margins of the volume she was to possess . 
`` As much , '' said Rose , looking at Mabel , and at the same time taking up a well-worn testament which lay beside her , and a few stray leaves from a primer , -- `` As much as two new ones like these would cost ? '' 
`` As much as half a dozen like each of those , '' replied Mabel , a little astonished at the question . 
Then , the excitement of her tone subsiding , she added , with slight hesitation , `` But perhaps I ought not to be the one to choose . '' 
`` Yes , you ought , '' replied Mabel , while Alick looked greatly disappointed . 
Her practical mind , trained in the school of necessity , had seen no impropriety in suggesting the change , but her deeply sensitive nature recoiled from voluntarily placing herself under a double obligation . 
`` You shall have your own way , Rose , '' said Mabel , who had been watching her face with intense interest . 
exclaimed Mabel , with the deepest sense of humility she had ever known , `` It is nothing for me to furnish the books , but how much they owe to you , Rosy ? '' 
And rising from her low seat and drawing her fur mantle around her , as if about to depart , she stooped down and imprinted a kiss upon Rose 's forehead , the action at the same time serving to hide the emotion which had been excited by the child 's unhesitating generosity . 
asked she . 
Every body smiled , and Mabel availed herself of the suggestion . 
`` I will bring her some oranges , certainly , '' said she , glancing at Mrs. Hope , `` if you think they would be wholesome for her . 
Rose looked uneasily at her mother as she entered this complaint , and Mabel glanced inquiringly at Rose , surprised at a charge which seemed to intimate a want of prudence and docility in the youthful invalid . 
`` You should not do that , Rose , '' said she , as with both her soft hands she smoothed the light hair from the child 's transparent temples . 
`` Jack does , '' said Rose , in a soft , meaning whisper , meant only for Mabel 's ear . 
There was a depth of sisterly love , and a power of self-sacrifice expressed in that simple utterance , which were irresistibly touching in one whose feebleness might seem to excuse her from all responsibility . 
Mabel felt the full force of the example , which was to her , at once , a lesson and a reproach . 
For a moment she stood gazing at Rose , as if striving to read in her face the secret of that divine strength which was victorious over the infirmities of the flesh ; then , at a loss for words , and afraid perhaps of betraying how deeply she was moved , she made haste to bid her farewell ; and the boys having also taken leave of the little invalid , they all followed Mrs. Hope into the shop , from whence , having unbarred the front door , she ushered them into the street . 
Before taking her leave , Mabel begged that she might be kept informed through Lydia of Rose 's state of health , and be applied to without reserve if there was any way in which she could minister to her comfort . 
The day was fast drawing to a close , and after accompanying her little nephews to the hotel , Mabel proceeded with haste towards her own home . 
What a change had two short hours effected in her air , her countenance , and her thoughts ! 
She had gone forth excited , restless , and unhappy , and thus , also , she returned ; but how chastened , subdued , and changed , were all these emotions ! 
Then , she was excited by vehement regrets , restless with vain longings , and unhappy from disappointed hopes . 
Now , her spirit was disturbed , but it was by a new revelation of things hitherto unseen ; she was eager and uneasy , but it was with a vague longing to rise above her former self ; she was dissatisfied , but it was the discontent whose fruit is repentance unto life eternal . 
She might resist it , -- she did resist it , -- for earthly temptations are strong , and heavenly impulses brief and evanescent . 
But it came again , an unwelcome intruder on her gayer hours , a patient supplicant pleading with her in her solitude . 
Whileunder the influence of her visit to Rosy , and while actuated by the gentle charities it had awakened , Mabel made more than one effort to recover her former influence with Harry , and regain his confidence . 
She met with partial success . 
Occasionally , he manifested something of his old pleasure in her society ; but in other instances , hurried away , as if her presence were an unwelcome restraint . 
Sisterly sympathy and perseverance on Mabel 's part , might , in time , have done much toward restoring the confidential relations which had been wont to subsist between them ; but it must be confessed , she soon met with a signal discouragement to her efforts . 
She had returned home at a late hour one evening , had learned from the footman that Harry had not come in , and feeling herself oppressed with more than usual anxiety , had determined to await his arrival before retiring to rest . 
Youth , however , craves its season of refreshment , and weariness gradually overpowering her senses , she threw herself upon a couch in her own room and fell asleep . 
She was awakened some hours later by the shuffling of feet out-side her chamber door , accompanied by a confused and noisy altercation . 
Starting up , her nerves trembling and her whole frame agitated with a sudden dread , she distinctly recognised the voice of her father 's footman , uttering vain and fruitless expostulations , while Harry , in rough and abusive language , heaped upon him the most unsparing invectives and threats . 
For several minutes Mabel stood , pale and breathless , with her ear pressed close to the key-hole , but hearing no sound . 
at length ventured to open her door and look out . 
She started back , however , as if pierced by an arrow ; for , though she gave but one glance without , it had revealed to her the figure of her father descending the stair-case , wrapped in his dressing-gown , and shading with his hand the lamp which he carried , while its light , falling full upon his face , proclaimed that he knew the worst . 
Mabel had long anticipated this or a similar scene ; still , as her eye met the woe-struck countenance of her parent , pity for Harry and mortification for herself gave place to a deep and indignant resentment against the youth who could thus bring down his father 's gray hairs with sorrow to the grave . 
She did not weep , she threw herself into no despairing attitude , but slowly paced up and down the room , her soft hazel eye glowing with an unwonted excitement , her delicately arched lip curved with something not unlike scorn . 
It was long before she could calm the tumult of her feelings , and when she did so , there remained a dull , heavy , and despairing consciousness of misfortune , such as she had never felt before . 
The family calamity had reached its crisis ; it was no longer a secret , stinging anxiety , hid in her own bosom ; it was a melancholy but acknowledged fact . 
She had hoped that her father might long be spared this blow , but , since it had come , it rested with him to ward off , if possible , future strokes . 
Whether or not these bolder measures required the aid of her gentle influence , she did not pause to consider ; but too easily discouraged in her own feeble endeavors , and too readily excusing herself from further participation in efforts for the reformation of her prodigal brother , she gladly cast off her share of the burden . 
Thus , with a heavier heart , but a lightened sense of personal responsibility , she finally sought her couch . 
Two week 's sojourn in the climate of Canada , to which place anxiety concerning some property had suddenly called him , had effectually cooled his petty jealousy , and he now strove sedulously to obliterate the recollection of it from Mabel 's mind . 
In the quick beating of her heart at his presence , she forgot all past estrangement , while the light in her eye , and the glow on her cheek , proved that no painful remembrance was suffered to interfere with her pleasure at his return . 
In this comparative lull between the dissipations of the metropolis and the watering-place , Dudley found the opportunity to engross more exclusively than ever the mind and heart of Mabel . 
The brilliant scenes of fashion no longer claimed their queen ; the accomplished opera troupe had sailed for Havana ; Mabel 's circle of admirers had , for the most part , either boldly urged their unsuccessful suits , or timidly withdrawn their hopeless claims to her favor ; the weather was unfavorable for the popular drive or promenade ; and now , if ever , was the time when intellectual amusements , refined tastes , and artistic pursuits , might easily claim their empire . 
Scarcely a day passed without affording Mabel the pleasure of Dudley 's society . 
A new book , a rare flower , the announcement of an exhibition of choice paintings , the discovery of some interesting fact in the scientific world , -- any of these were sufficient excuse for a visit ; or , if these failed , such were his address and tact , that he well knew how to render himself essential in any scheme of pleasure or entertainment which met her approbation . 
In Dudley 's society , within the magic sound of his low , persuasive voice , and under the fascinating influence of his dark , dreamy eyes , Mabel had no leisure for any other contemplations or thoughts than those which his presence awakened ; while , in searching with him after the beautiful in poetry , nature , and art , she was unconscious that life afforded the opportunity for higher or nobler pursuits . 
Fatal as this ascendancy was to her truest and purest aspirations , it may well be believed that it did not tend to encourage those schemes of sisterly benevolence and charity which she might otherwise have cherished ; for Dudley was not the man , under any circumstances , to risk his own unstained reputation by the attempt to countenance and uphold a falling friend . 
Mabel was not long in becoming conscious of the gradual decay of his intimacy with Harry , and thus both his example and influence tended to discourage her efforts and hopes in her brother 's behalf ; while his dominion over her thoughts was such as to soothe the mortification she suffered at the misconduct of the unhappy youth , and allay her fears for his possible fate . 
Whatever might be his motive , -- or even if he had no serious motive at all , -- Dudley spared no pains to establish an exclusive empire over Mabel 's heart and life , and voluntarily submitting to his guidance , she yielded herself to his wishes and tastes , allowed herself to be swayed by his opinions , and blindly adopted his maxims . 
Thus he was satisfied , and she was happy . 
At least she believed herself happy . 
It was true , he possessed a grace and tact which knew how to veil what was in reality officious , beneath an air of flattering assidurty , and his eccentricities furnished an excuse for what would have been overbearing in another ; still , Mabel 's spirit could not easily brook the inequalities of his manner toward her , and she occasionally met his sudden coldness and constraint with a haughtiness equal to his own air of petrified reserve . 
Then followed intervals of unacknowledged but evident alienation , when Mabel , suddenly thrown upon her own resources , experienced a reaction which made her past elation of spirit seem a delusion and a mockery . 
During these intervals , all the elements of unhappiness in her home presented themselves with redoubled force . 
Her aunt 's complaints and inuendoes , which had formerly been limited to the unamiable deportment of Mrs. Leroy , and the impositions she continually practised upon her circle of relatives , had now found a new and inexhaustible subject , in that still greater cause of apprehension and distress , which Mabel had so dreaded to have come to her knowledge , but with which she had inevitably become acquainted . 
Louise had acquired more boldness than ever in her schemes of deception and self-indulgence ; while Mabel 's temper was incessantly tried by her sister 's heartless indifference to her pleasure and convenience . 
Mabel dared not ask or think . 
But , not only did these intervals of solitary reflection bring up in long array the trials of Mabel 's lot ; they brought with them , also , another remembrance , which was banished from her gayer and happier hours , -- the remembrance of one who , amid privation , hardship , and pain , had learned life 's holiest lesson , and finding in her little sphere a humble path of duty , trod it with the heroism of a martyr and the patience of a saint . 
She could not be blind to this living example , nor deaf to the secret monitor it had awakened in her heart . 
False theories and selfish reasonings might shake her faith in abstract principles , but no sophistry could refute or obscure the sacred truth which emanated from the life of Rosy . 
The thought of this pious little pilgrim , and her daily walk with God , could not fail to awaken in a nature so candid and impressible as Mabel 's , many a pang of self-questioning and self-reproach ; but with these salutary stings of conscience there came other and no less beneficent influences , which were at once welcome and sweet . 
Mabel 's spirits were invariably calmed and soothed by a visit to Rosy ; her mind at once subdued and strengthened . 
Mabel , however , much more independent than her fastidious coachman , quite unconscious indeed of derogating from her dignity , alighted without hesitation , and entering , commenced making her purchases . 
While the youth who waited on her was engaged in weighing some grapes , her attention was attracted to a couple of boys who were lounging outside the counter . 
asked Mabel , of the youth who was tying up her purchases . 
The lad looked up , met her earnest , inquiring eye , and stooping down to bite off a piece of twine , endeavored to hide a smile which was creeping over his face . 
Mabel , observing his hesitation , repeated her question , and the youth looking up again , and seeing the immovable gravity of her features , composed his own , while he said , in answer to the second query -- `` Mean by what , ma'am ? 
Something to drink , '' replied the young man ; and unable now to conceal how much he was amused at Mabel 's curiosity , he laughed outright , at the same time collecting his parcels with the view of taking them to the carriage . 
`` I thought so -- I was afraid so , '' said Mabel , her features still grave and reproachful ; `` it is a shame ! '' 
Jack -- Jack Hope , for he it was , though Mabel had no suspicion of the fact -- looked up , met her mild , reproving glance , cast an eye at the same time at her rich garments , striking air , and noble figure , and then looking down with a half-defiant , half-mortified expression , stood kickling one foot against the counter . 
asked Mabel , after a pause . 
Once more Jack 's eye met hers , but drooped the next instant beneath the compassionate and imploring expression with which she gazed into his face . 
There was another instant of silence , for Jack made no reply to her question . 
Mabel now drew a gold dollar from her purse , and laid it on the counter . 
Jack glanced at it with an eager longing that could not be mistaken , but this time he did not venture to look up at Mabel . 
Mabel was struck with the boy 's rude sense of honor ; she looked puzzled for a moment , then said , `` Is n't there some one at home you could spend it for ? 
Unconsciously she had struck the master-chord . 
Jack looked searchingly up in her face , forgetting his former awe in the deeper curiosity to discover how she had pierced his secret thoughts . 
Mabel saw her advantage , and acted upon it . 
`` Do not take what that wicked boy promised you , '' said she , `` and do n't go to the theatre either ; keep out of such bad company , or you will be ruined ; here , you shall have the dollar , and welcome , only do n't put it to a bad use ; perhaps you can think of something to buy with it that will please them all at home , and make them proud and happy . '' 
`` I do want it for somethin' particklar , '' said the boy ; `` it a 'n' t nothin ` bad , as true as the world it a 'n' t. '' `` Well , then , '' said Mabel , `` take it ; I believe you , for you look as if you were speaking the truth ; here , put it in your pocket . '' 
In her eagerness to see him depart , Mabel stretched out her delicately gloved hand and assisted him in fitting the leather strap to his shoulder . 
`` There , now , run , '' said she , smiling with pleasure at her own success . 
and Jack trudged off , looked back once or twice to watch her as she entered her carriage , and then took to his heels , according to her recommendation . 
About half an hour afterwards , as Mabel was sitting in the widow Hope 's shop , talking with Rose , while Donald was pacing his horses up and down at some little distance from the house , the shop-door was violently flung open , the bell which was attached to it rung unmercifully , and Jack rushed hastily in , holding up his dollar and exclaiming , `` Hurrah , Rose ! 
no matter now where I got it , but here is just money enough to pay for -- '' her had reached this point in his exclamation , when he suddenly caught sight of Mabel , who had hitherto been concealed by the door behind which she sat . 
Rose , sadly mortified at this unmannerly entrance and exit , endeavored to excuse him to Mabel by remarking , `` That is Jack -- he is n't much used to company . '' 
But Mabel , whose mind was wholly occupied with the coincidence which had thus proved the candy-boy to be identical with Rose 's brother , did not seem to hear her , and Rose , fearing from her silence that she was displeased , suggested in further extenuation of Jack 's behavior , `` He is not always so rude , Miss Mabel . '' 
answered Mabel promptly , recovering from her momentary abstraction , and observing Rosy 's troubled expression ; `` he did not mean to be rude ; he was surprised , that was all . 
`` He is -- he is , Miss Mabel , '' exclaimed she earnestly ; and thus encouraged to speak on the subject , she did not pause until she had exhausted the catalogue of his good qualities . 
Mingled with her praises , however , it was not difficult to detect a secret anxiety and doubt lest these very good qualities should become corrupted by the evil influences to which his street traffic inevitably exposed him , and with the clue furnished her by the occurrences of the morning , Mabel understood better than ever before the self-devotion and perseverance with which his little invalid sister strove to keep him as much as possible at her side . 
This little incident failed not to leave a strong impression on Mabel 's mind . 
It had afforded her the happiness of performing a benevolent action ; it had created a new bond of sympathy between herself and Rose , -- above all , it had revealed to her a fresh proof of the beauty and power of that holy love which no selfish doubts can chill or blight , but which , living on through suffering , change , decay , and death , beareth all things , believeth all things , hopeth all things , and endureth all things . 
It was a lovely morning , towards the close of the month of May , when Mabel , with a miniature watering-pot in her hand , stood listlessly gazing from out her dressing-room window into a beautiful open square directly opposite . 
She had been engaged in watering a few plants , Harry 's thoughtful gift many months before ; but her mind had wandered from her occupation , and though her eye was fixed upon the sunny green sward of the little park , the dreamy smile upon her countenance proclaimed her to be roaming far away in the pleasant fields of imagination . 
Home still had its cares ; the present , its bitterness ; the future , its anxiety ; but these had no part in her present reverie , for , giving the reins to a charmed fancy , and , for the time , banishing every painful thought , she was dwelling with fond and eager anticipation upon that ever fruitful prospect of enjoyment , a young girl 's first journey . 
And if the eloquent tongue of Dudley had power to clothe these grand and picturesque regions with a new halo of beauty and romance , it may well be believed that Mabel 's heart was stirred with no common glow of delighted anticipation , at the added hope she was now indulging , of visiting these favored spots in his companionship , being initiated by him into the peculiar charms which pertain to each , and being suffered to believe that the sight of her fresh enjoyment would awaken in him a pleasure , equal , if not superior , to that he had once experienced in his own . 
Early in the spring , when Mabel 's friends were discussing their plans for the season , she had frequently mentioned her expectation of spending the month of June in travelling . 
As the time drew near , however , and Mr. Vaughan declared his engagements to be such as to forbid all thought of the journey , she freely expressed , amid her own little circle , the disappointment which she felt at the project 's being thus unexpectedly abandoned . 
Mr. Leroy had left New York early in May , to attend to some important transactions at the West , and Louise was at liberty to follow her own inclinations ; while Mabel , never doubting the consent of her indulgent father , lent a ready ear to a scheme which she believed to be designed for her especial benefit . 
Thus a plan was concerted , which , gaining in popularity from day to day , soon became the engrossing topic of interest and conversation between Mabel and her friends ; and while all found in it a welcome source of pleasure , Mabel 's heart thrilled with a dreamy ecstacy of delight , as she listened to the lowspoken words of hope and expectation which Dudley breathed into her ear , as he talked of the promised journey , or as she pondered in secret on the vague , half-uttered terms in which he confessed his happiness to be in this , as in all things , dependent on her own . 
This festive occasion was now close at hand , and , as Mabel stood at the window and counted up the days which must elapse before the commencement of her little tour , her pleasant reflections were interrupted by the thought , that she had not yet found an opportunity to broach the matter to her father . 
So confident was she , however , that the independence she had hitherto enjoyed would not be interfered with in this particular , that she was dismissing the subject from her mind , with the simple conclusion , I must not forget to mention it to him to-morrow , -- when her meditations were still further disturbed by the unusual sound of his footsteps within her room , and looking up , she found him close beside her with an open letter in his hand . 
He replied at once to the inquiring expression of her face , saying , `` I have news from your Aunt Margaret , my dear . '' 
Mabel started , and a look of sudden alarm passed over her face , for her Aunt Sabiah had left them a week before , in compliance with an invitation to pass the summer with her recently widowed sister , and Mabel feared some accident had befallen her . 
asked she quickly . 
`` Aunt Sabiah -- '' `` Your aunts are both well , '' interrupted her father ; `` this letter is in reply to a message I sent by your Aunt Sabiah last week ; it comes very opportunely , -- it is very kind , very hospitable in your Aunt Margaret ; it gratifies me exceedingly , '' and he handed the letter for her perusal . 
Mabel 's face was expressive of mingled emotions as she read , but puzzled surprise predominated ; and as she finished , she looked up with the abrupt remark , `` About Harry ? 
Mabel was about to express astonishment at this sudden choice of a profession , and question her father more closely , but observing the expression of his countenance , she checked herself , satisfied rather to await such explanation as he might think proper to give . 
Mabel 's countenance fell , as she listened to this programme of her father 's intentions and wishes ; even the sight of his haggard and anxious face , failed to win her from the contemplation of her own disappointment . 
She stood silent and thoughtful , looked out of the window , bit her lip , and made no reply . 
Mr. Vaughan , who was slowly pacing the room , glanced up at length , as if awaiting some response to his own expressions of satisfaction , and then said , watching her face meanwhile , and speaking in the tone of considerate kindness with which he always addressed her -- `` I hope you like the plan , my daughter ; your Aunt Margaret is a stranger , to be sure , but Sabiah is there , you know . '' 
Already he had detected her repugnance to the arrangement , and was solicitous to place it in the best possible light . 
`` Yes , '' said Mabel , hesitating , `` but I was in hopes '' -- Her voice faltered as she spoke , but her father reassured her , drawing near , standing with his hands clasped behind him , and patiently awaiting what she had to say , while he aided her with the inquiry -- `` What did you hope , my dear ? 
Thus encouraged , she acknowledged the scheme of pleasure which she found it so hard to forego , explained the route , enumerated the party , and , while she forbore to urge the point , made no secret of her preference . 
`` No , '' answered Mabel , with a thrill of pain which was like the sting of conscience , for she well knew that no one had requested Harry 's company on the excursion . 
`` I was , '' said Mabel , hesitatingly , `` Yes . '' 
And with nervous agitation she stood picking the withered leaves from a geranium , while she awaited her father 's decision . 
Her cause was in safe hands . 
Mr. Vaughan had no courage to disappoint her ; he could far better bear to be disappointed himself . 
Mabel promised to do so , and the matter being settled , Mr. Vaughan , who had no time to waste , hurried away to his office . 
Mabel stood and looked after him as he crossed the little park -- her kind , indulgent father , who could refuse her nothing . 
How she thanked and blessed him ! 
Her aged and care-worn father , with a stooping gait and a shadow on his brow , -- was the deeper whisper of her conscience . 
Did she deserve from him a blessing in return ? 
Her pathway , it is true , is free . 
He has left her at liberty to go when and where she will ; his restraining hand places no clog upon her footsteps , his love has broken down every barrier to her looked-for happiness -- every barrier save one , and that a dull , heavy , impatient knocking at her heart , an intruding thought , a stern and solemn appeal , striving to make itself heard . 
Shall she give the strange , unwelcome guest admittance ? 
She was criticising and commenting upon various rich articles of dress which formed a part of Mabel 's spring wardrobe , when a figure of ample proportions presented itself within the door of the dressing-room , and a loud voice exclaimed , `` Ah , here you are ! 
Oh , Mabel , what a sweet bonnet ! 
`` Throw off your mantle , and take a seat at this open window , '' said Mabel , observing the flushed and heated condition of her visitor . 
`` No , no , thank you , let me sit here , '' replied the lady , taking a fan which Mabel offered , and fanning herself vigorously . 
observed she , examining some rich flounced silks which , just received from the dressmaker 's , hung over the arm of the couch . 
she continued , in a theatrical manner , uttering at the same time something between a sigh and an endeavor to catch her breath ; `` What would Mr. Lincoln Dudley say , with his contempt for finery , if he should see all this exhibition of the fine arts , as he calls it ? '' 
Mabel looked up quickly , as Mrs. Vannecker thus quoted her friend , but the tongue of the loquacious lady did not need even the encouragement of a look . 
Mabel turned away and smiled -- not at the mistake , but at Mrs. Vannecker 's desire to exclude Mr. Dudley from a party of his own arranging , into which she had intruded herself and her daughter , uninvited . 
`` Mabel , what did De Trou make you pay for those flowers ? '' 
`` It must have required a large stock of words , I should think , Mrs. Vannecker , to defend so poor a cause , '' said Mabel , betraying in her manner , no less than her remark , a disposition to justify Dudley 's severity . 
`` So you side with my lord Dudley , do you , Mabel , and condemn society in the same wholesale manner ? 
`` I do not speak of society generally , '' resumed Mabel , `` but an intellectual man , like Mr. Dudley , can not be expected to have much sympathy with silly women and coxcombs . '' 
Not me , though I came under the privileged head of ` Present company , ' nor you , my dear , '' added she with a coarse laugh , `` though you are so ready to ratify his opinions . 
You had your share of the lash , as well as the rest of us ; however , do n't look so crest-fallen , '' added she , seeing Mabel suddenly change color and look down ; `` one must pay some penalty for being the most popular belle of the season ; and if nobody finds fault with you but a crusty old bachelor , like Mr. Dudley , you must n't complain , even if the world does give him the credit of being a genius and all that . '' 
remarked Louise , who engaged in trying on Mabel 's new bonnet only caught a word , now and then , of a conversation to which she felt wholly indifferent . 
Why , when Mr. Earle said something about Theodore Marston 's beauty and accomplishments , and the splendid establishment in which he would instate the lady of his choice , '' -- and she gave a meaning glance at Mabel , -- `` Mr. Dudley snarled as if somebody had stepped on his toes . 
For instance : we all know how much he has patronized Mabel this winter -- all because he thought it a feather in his cap to be in the van of her admirers -- and now , I will just tell what he said about her , if it 's only to convince the child that I did n't waste words , as she calls it , without provocation . '' 
Mabel stooped down and appeared to be busily searching for some missing article in her bureau drawer , while Mrs. Vannecker continued -- `` You must know we were talking , as every body is now , about Fan Broadhead 's marriage with the colonel , and Mrs. Earle remarked that she thought it a capital match . '' 
exclaimed Mabel , looking up with crimson face and flashing eyes , `` how could you couple my name -- '' `` It was only by way of argument , my dear , '' responded Mrs. Vannecker . 
`` Yes , but connected as you are , '' faltered Mabel , `` it would be thought -- '' `` Nothing would be thought , but what is true , I suspect , or will be one of these days ; if not , you can contradict the reports that are circulating , my dear ; but let me go on with my story , and you shall judge what Lincoln Dudley 's opinion of you is . 
`` There , that was a long speech , but I treasured up every word of it , Mabel , for I was determined to tell you . 
What do you think now , Mabel , of the justice of Mr. Dudley 's criticisms ? '' 
Wounded feeling , pride , and indignation , were all depicted in Mabel 's countenance . 
`` I think , Mrs. Vannecker , '' said she , evading a direct reply , `` that it is very unpleasant to be made the subject of a drawing-room discussion , and in future I must beg -- '' `` O , my dear , '' interrupted Mrs. Vannecker , in a conciliating tone , `` it was not an occasion of any consequence , there were only half a dozen persons present , and I only mentioned you and Mr. Marston , as an instance of a young couple who were every way suited to each other . '' 
`` But it was a very mistaken instance , '' persisted Mabel . 
`` Why , Louise , I do n't know what you mean , '' exclaimed Mabel , tears of vexation starting to her eyes . 
said she , tapping Mabel lightly under the chin , as the latter stooped to pick up one of the fallen gloves . 
said Mabel , with a vehemence unusual to her . 
`` Harry is not going on the journey , '' said Mabel , quickly . 
Mabel did not reply ; and the dismayed lady , after repeated expressions of self-condolence , left the room , with the words , `` I amdisappointed , -- Harry not going , -- what will Vic say ? '' 
Mabelreturned to her dressing-room , threw herself into a seat at the open window , and , with her hands dropped listlessly on her lap , and her eyes gazing vacantly into a piece of blue sky opposite , became lost in thought . 
`` So , Dudley thinks me a complete fashionist , a mere worldling , '' was her inward meditation . 
These fine clothes , '' thought she , as rising impatiently from her seat , her eyes fell on the rich silks and laces which were profusely scattered around , `` do I want them ? 
This face and figure which the world calls beautiful , '' and she paused before the mirror , `` do I covet beauty , save as it may make me attractive in his eyes ? 
that was a bitter pang indeed , that he should place her thus on a level with the vain crowds , at whom she had so often heard him sneer . 
She had trusted , with all the warmth of her generous affections , in one who knew not what it was to trust . 
The poisoned arrows , with which she had thoughtlessly played , had rebounded and pierced her to the heart . 
No wonder that she smarted at the sudden wound . 
But her generous confidence was not weary yet , and the first struggle with injured feeling being past , she was ready , with a true woman 's inventive charity , both to palliate the offence , and excuse and pardon the offender . 
`` Mrs. Vannecker dislikes Mr. Dudley , '' thought she , `` and has no doubt given her own coloring to his words ; -- things sound so differently when repeated ; -- besides , she says he is poor , -- I never thought of that . 
And Mabel 's heart softened as she reflected on the bitterness which a sensitive man might feel , as he contrasted his narrow estate with the princely fortune of his rival . 
`` I have been careless and imprudent , too , '' thought she ; `` no wonder he is vexed , when strangers even are deceived . '' 
And here Mabel called to mind the frequent instances , unexplained till now , when Mr. Dudley had turned coldly away at Mr. Marston 's approach , or , with harsh and cutting sarcasm , had commented on the frivolous tastes and manners of the amiable and harmless young man . 
`` I must be more careful in future , '' thought she . 
Thus , by a process of reasoning , in which the heart , and not the head , furnished arguments , Mabel had finally arrived at a conclusion which left her , as she believed , still mistress of her own destiny . 
She had but to exercise the frankness , simplicity , and truth , which were her own native characteristics , and , with the knowledge she had obtained of Dudley 's sensitive distrust , she should have no difficulty in removing it . 
We have seen with what fond and romantic anticipations she had already looked forward to the escape from city thraldom , to the enjoyment of a few weeks commune with nature , and with one whom she deemed nature 's fit interpreter , but now this long-talked-of excursion had suddenly assumed a new significance , a vital interest ; it had become , as it were , the crisis of her life . 
`` No need of all this finery , '' thought she , as she hastily folded and put out of sight the offending articles of dress , the nervous trembling of her busy fingers keeping time to the impatient fluttering of the young heart yearning for an occasion to prove the genuineness of its devotion . 
`` Travelling furnishes no necessity for elaborate toilettes , '' was her exulting reflection ; `` it imposes none of the restrictions of city life . 
He had dared to question Mabel 's disinterestedness and capability of self-sacrifice ; could his own soul have denied the truth , that he himself was guilty of the very weakness he contemned in another ? 
Thus , while seeing more plainly than Mabel did the obstacles to their union , unlike her he felt no generous ardor to overlap them at a bound . 
It was true her habits were expensive , but so too were his , and confirmed by long indulgence . 
`` A few weeks more within the sphere of pretty Mabel 's smiles , '' was his reflection , as whiling away the warm hours of the day , stretched on a couch in an apartment at his club , he lazily watched the blue curling smoke of his cigar -- `` a journey to the Falls in company with this interesting and beautiful young enthusiast , and then , '' -- he sighed , -- for he would have loved Mabel , had there been room in his heart for so disinterested an emotion . 
Had there been an electric communication between his heart and Mabel 's , her airy castles of bliss would have fallen as beneath the lightning blast ; but there was no such magnetic link , and she went dreaming on . 
She was still occupied with her own glowing and painfully exciting meditations , when her solitude was suddenly broken in upon by one , who of late seldom intruded within her precincts . 
`` It is very warm , '' said Mabel . 
Mabel colored and experienced a nervous tremor ; she feared the remark had some reference to herself . 
She was ressured on this point , however , as Harry continued in a tone of half-playful , half-indignant irony , `` Yes , nothing less than a lawyer , -- a rusty , fusty lawyer . 
Mabel made no reply to this communication ; she felt reluetant to acknowledge to Harry that she had already learned the tidings from her father . 
Mabel now understood that Mr. Vaughan 's arrangements had been made without Harry 's knowledge , or the slightest reference to his wishes , and her quick mind saw at once the probable consequences of this injudicious step . 
She knew how vain it was to endeavor thus to control the youth , who never , from his infancy , had submitted to restraint . 
As if to give plausibility to the scheme , however , she remarked , -- `` But , Harry , you always preferred that profession ; I always supposed you would decide upon it . '' 
`` But , Harry , '' exclaimed Mabel , `` think how you will disappoint father . 
Her conscience smote her as she spoke . 
Was it for her to remind her brother of his duty ? 
Had she not also been included in her father 's plans , and had she not in like manner proved refractory ? 
asked Mabel , with evident embarrassment . 
`` Yes -- no , '' said Mabel with hesitation ; `` at least , I mean -- '' `` You do n't mean to back out , I hope , '' said Harry , drawing down the corners of his mouth , and speaking in a tone of mock reproof . 
With mortification and difficulty , Mabel faltered out the words , `` Why -- it happened so , that I was thinking of another journey just at this time , and I concluded that -- that -- '' `` That the air of L. would not suit you , '' said Harry , with emphasis , and a meaning laugh ; and here he precisely echoed her tones of a moment before , -- `` think how you will disappoint father . '' 
`` Oh , but it does not matter so much where I go , '' said Mabel , anxious to excuse herself . 
Her self-indulgence and opposition to their father had , for the present , placed her precisely upon his own level . 
He rallied her upon her hypocritical attempt to awaken his filial sentiments , congratulated her upon her escape from parental thraldom , and on the strength of the kindred tie established by their mutual rebellion , so far resumed his brotherly right to her confidence as to inquire into the nature of the trip she had in view , and the expected companions of the journey . 
Mabel sketched the plan of the tour , and enumerated the party , closing with the name of Lincoln Dudley . 
which Mabel well understood ; for she had become instinctively conscious that the friendship once existing between her brother and Dudley had given place to something less than indifference . 
`` If you do n't go to L. , '' said Mabel , diffidently , and with painful hesitation , `` you had better go with us . '' 
exclaimed Harry , turning upon her almost fiercely -- `` not I. I certainly should start for L. at once , if joining that party were the only alternative ; '' and , with these words , he abruptly turned on his heel and left the room . 
Once more alone , Mabel would gladly have resumed her castle building -- but in vain ; flattering visions might dazzle and bewilder her , but she no longer dared unhesitatingly pursue them . 
There was a something which held her back . 
It haunted her until nightfall . 
It robbed her of her earlier hours of sleep , it mingled in her later dreams , it greeted her at the morning light , -- and still she refused to listen . 
`` Mabel , what in the world can have become of Donald ? '' 
`` I can not imagine , '' replied Mabel , outwardly more calm than her sister , but betraying scarcely less annoyance , as she glanced at a clock on the mantle-piece , and then looked anxiously down the street . 
Mabel made no reply , but continued gazing from the window , not a little chafed at the selfishness of her sister 's complaints . 
This unforeseen delay and disappointment were the result of a discovery made by Mabel 's coachman , as she alighted at the hotel where she had , according to agreement , called for Mrs. Leroy . 
Mrs. Leroy 's childish and fretful impatience increased every moment ; and Mabel , in addition to her own share of vexation , found herself the victim of Louise 's uncontrollable ill temper and unsparing invective . 
It was no more than fair that Mabel should abide by her own poor management , but it was hard -- yes , she must say it was a little too hard -- that she also should be the sufferer by such folly . 
And the next moment her light figure disappeared through the door which opened into the hall , and Mabel lost her final words , which were to the effect that there would probably then be a vacant seat in Mr. Earle 's carriage . 
Characteristic as this manuvre was in Mrs. Leroy , Mabel 's feelings were deeply hurt at the selfishness and unsisterly effrontery which it evinced . 
`` I can not go now , at any rate , '' thought she . 
And no longer anxious for the arrival of the carriage , she deliberately removed her bonnet and sat down to meditate on her disappointment . 
Unconsciously to herself , she had looked forward to this festivity with an interest never before awakened by any similar occasion . 
`` Never mind , Murray , I sha 'n' t go now , '' said Mabel , after nearly an hour had elapsed ; `` it is too late . '' 
inquired he , in a disappointed tone , observing that Mabel was standing behind him , gazing moodily and vacantly into the street , and making no movement to resume her bonnet . 
`` Very well , '' said Mabel , indifferently ; `` ask Lydia for your hat , -- get yours , too , Alick , '' and pleased at the delight exhibited by Murray , she tried to assume a gay tone , as she said , -- `` We will go and have a good time by ourselves . '' 
Alick 's face brightened , as Mabel seemed thus to promise herself a compensation for being excluded from the wedding festival , and by the time they gained the carriage , the boys , at least , were both in high spirits . 
Donald , comprehending at once the consequences of his long delay , had a tedious story to relate in reference to its cause ; but Mabel , scarcely hearing his explanation , and caring little for the trivial details which had resulted , as she deemed , so disastrously , accepted his apology in silence , and bade him drive on , purposely choosing a direction opposite to that leading to Riverside . 
They had proceeded but a little distance down Broadway , however , when , seized with a new idea , she suddenly altered her purpose , and requested the coachman to turn and drive home . 
Alick looked at her inquiringly ; Murray began to whimper ; but her smile re-assured them . 
`` Only for a moment , darling , '' said she , in a soothing tone , to Murray ; `` I shall not get out of the carriage , I wish to speak to Cecilia . 
Ring the bell , Donald , '' said she , as they stopped before her father 's door ; and as the footman appeared and ran down the steps to take her orders , she exclaimed , to the astonishment of her hearers , `` ask Cecilia to bring my warm Scotch shawl and a pillow -- two pillows , Robert , '' continued she , as he turned to fulfil her directions . 
But Mabel only smiled in reply . 
`` Turn here , '' said she , at length , to Donald , as they reached the entrance of a narrow street . 
Mabel nodded in assent . 
Mabel almost forgot her recent and bitter disappointment , in the thought of the pleasure she was about to impart . 
Tears streamed down the cheeks of the happy , grateful child , and the undemonstrative mother so far forgot her wonted reserve as to lay her hand on Mabel 's shoulder and exclaim , `` Bless your heart , she was just longing to have a peep at the country ! 
A few moments more , and Rose , supported by pillows , and with Mabel 's shawl across her lap , was rolling down Broadway , in the easy , luxurious carriage , her thin , pale face , and slight , attenuated figure , forming a striking contrast to the rich beauty and graceful proportions of Mabel , who was leaning forward , re-arranging the cushions at her feet , and gently inquiring whether the motion of the carriage fatigued her . 
Rose 's eyes wandered up and down the street , taking in at a glance a thousand interesting objects , while Alick and Murray , as they watched her from the opposite seat , directed her attention now to one thing and now to another , betraying in their animated faces how deeply they enjoyed and participated in her pleasure . 
Mabel and the boys gazed in silent satisfaction at the rapt and excited child , as , lost in the contemplation of this panorama of ocean , earth , and sky , she manifested in her face and gestures an extasy of delight such as words would have been powerless to express . 
With parted lips and straining eyes she continued to gaze , as if every other sense was absorbed in that of sight , and not until some overshadowing buildings shut out the bewildering prospect , did she relapse into her wonted composure . 
As the carriage paused a moment at the ferry , while awaiting the boat which should transport it to the opposite shore , the child slowly turned her head , met Mabel 's sympathetic glance , drew a long breath , and , with a smile of holy joy , sought the hand of her friend and pressed it with grateful fervor . 
Still she spoke not a word , as if fearful to break the spell that was upon her , but with patient though trembling expectation , waited until the revelation of beauty and enchantment should again burst upon her sight . 
With her head bent forward , the light breeze stirring the hair on her blue-veined temples , and her cheek tinged with the faint flush which pleasure and excitement had called up , the invalid girl seemed borne into a new creation and animated by a new life . 
Mabel 's heart beat high with unselfish joy , as she beheld the light which sparkled in Rose 's eye , and the rapture which shone in her beaming features ; while Alick forgot his wonted interest in the shipping of the harbor , to follow her earnest gaze as it peered now into the azure depths of sky , then watched the motion of the rolling waves , and finally rested with serene repose on the luxurious verdure of the shore . 
cried the voices of Alick and Murray , while Mabel herself could not resist turning round for another glimpse of the honest face , which evinced such an evident participation in Rose 's joy . 
Truly this was a great day for Rose , -- the one gala day of her life . 
Even Donald , that proud , handsome Donald , who presided on the box , manifested a certain tenderness for her infirmities , drove gently over the pavement , and avoided every rough spot in the road , as if to spare her any unnecessary jolting or fatigue . 
Here and there , at intervals , might be seen the neat Dutch farm-houses , each of which seemed in turn , to Rose , the counterpart of her mother 's early home , while , occasionally , as they gained some slight elevation , there burst upon them in one comprehensive view the wide range of rolling meadows , green orchards , and sunny slopes , which mark the scenery of Long Island ; while in the distance , the eye might discern , at intervals , the blue waters of the sea . 
At sight of the rural homesteads , the cattle peacefully grazing , or reposing in the shade , and innumerable other objects with which frequent descriptions had rendered Rose partially familiar , her enthusiastic and artless delight would find vent in words ; and Mabel 's heart was deeply touched as the child recounted , in simple phrase , the oft-repeated tale of her mother 's happy life at the old farm , the revisiting of which blessed spot had ever constituted the day-dream of her city-bred children . 
exclaimed Mabel , eagerly , as she observed the child 's intense and ill-concealed longing ; `` you must go there with your mother one of these days , and see the good old place . '' 
Rose only replied , however , by shaking her head with an air of sad and pensive resignation and Mabel forbore to urge the point , for they had now gained the height of a hill up which the horses had long been toiling , and were greeted by one of those lovely and extensive views , the sight of which effectually sealed Rose 's lips , while a hush of holy awe crept over the little face , the working of which , nevertheless , revealed unutterable things . 
Who shall tell how much she discerned which is shut from the eye of sense , how much she heard which is whispered only to the ear of the spirit ? 
Like her , they were privileged beyond their wont , and evinced their satisfaction , the one in the eagerness of his observations and questions , and the other in the laughter , shouts , and unchecked glee of childhood . 
Occasionally Mabel 's thoughts would wander to the gay scene at Riverside ; a slight pang of envy would pierce her heart as she mused upon the happy throng assembled there , and she would anxiously ask herself , `` Am I missed amid the crowd ? '' 
But a look at Rose 's enraptured face , or the shouts of the joyous boys , were sufficient to chase away every obtruding regret , and satisfy her with the reflection , `` They surely could not spare me here . '' 
But time is a tyrant , and though Mabel had left her watch at home , the slowly descending sun began to give notice of the day 's decline . 
Reclining on her cushions , with her head gently resting on Mabel 's shoulder , Rose lay watching the light , airy clouds , which , gradually forming into masses of greater volume and richer coloring , hung suspended above the western horizon . 
So soft and soothing was the scene , so still and motionless the figure of the child , who was revolving in new wonder the miracle of creation , that Mabel believed and hoped she had fallen asleep , and forbore to disturb her by a word . 
As a sudden turn in the road , however , brought them in full view of the city , Rose raised her head , and , like one abruptly awakened from a pleasant dream , gazed long and fixedly at the huge assemblage of buildings , amid which her young life had hitherto been imprisoned . 
Mabel divined her thoughts . 
asked she . 
Rose smiled and shook her head . 
`` I have thought of a fine plan for you , '' continued Mabel , `` and one that I am sure you will like . 
It is not a long journey , '' added she , with animation , her interest in the scheme increasing as she observed the ray of pleasure and hope which had overspread Rose 's face at the suggestion , `` it will only take one day . 
The glow of delight which had been called up in Rose 's countenance , as Mabel first named this welcome proposal , gave place to an expression of pain and anxiety as the pronounced the concluding phrases of the plan . 
Tears started into her eyes , and she made haste to lay her hand on Mabel 's arm , and check the glowing anticipations she was indulging of her little friend 's happiness and possible restoration to health , in the broken words , `` Dear Miss Mabel ! 
Mabel looked puzzled and disappointed ; she could not understand the child 's eagerness to deny herself so great a pleasure . 
`` Miss Mabel , '' added Rose , after a little hesitation , seeing that Mabel still awaited an explanation , `` you would n't think anybody needed me here , a poor sick girl that has been a care and a trouble all my life , but I could not be happy to go away and leave my dear Jack . 
Little did she think that every word of her simple apology pierced like an arrow to the heart of Mabel ; little did she comprehend the sudden sting of conscience which caused the quick blush to flood the face , the eyes to droop , and the hand to be nervously withdrawn from her fond and affectionate clasp . 
She thought she had offended her friend , and continued in urgent tones , `` indeed -- indeed , I am very thankful , and you are too good ; I do not deserve it ; but you are not vexed with me ? '' 
And laying her hand on Mabel 's arm , and fixing her large eyes full and searchingly upon her , she added , in a touching , pleading tone , `` O , dear Miss Mabel , have you a brother , and do you love him as I love Jack ? '' 
The look , the question seemed empowered with authority to probe Mabel 's very heart . 
Shrinking from their scrutiny , she sought to evade the one and respond to the other by hiding her face in the folds of Rosy 's shawl , as she drew her to her in a close embrace ; and Rose believed herself understood and was satisfied . 
Many an eye follows them with loving and grateful interest , as they sweep down the narrow street , where , at her humble door , the widow Hope watches for the return of her child . 
She looks up , smiles at Mabel and the boys , receives answering smiles in return , and the carriage whirls rapidly away . 
Thus exclaimed the unabashed Louise , who , adopting her usual tactics , and ignoring any unsisterly conduct on her own part , had , with many affected airs and a more than ordinary toss of the head , detailed for Mabel 's benefit such particulars of the wedding reception as seemed to her most noteworthy . 
As these consisted chiefly of the compliments paid to herself on the occasion , the attention she had received from various quarters , the admiration and envy her new mantilla had excited , and the striking contrast between the awkward arrangement of Fan Brodhead 's veil and the taste displayed on the event of her own bridal , it may well be supposed that Mabel 's interest in the subject was soon exhausted , especially as Louise declared that she had a thousand messages of regret from her sister 's numerous friends , but could not remember a word of them , or say exactly who inquired for her , and who did not . 
asked Mabel , in surprise . 
`` It is very true , '' replied Mabel , gravely . 
Mabel made no reply ; she had learned by experience that it was vain to argue with Louise . 
Mabel looked deeply shocked at her sister 's heartlessness , and answered , `` A very great difference I should think , Louise . '' 
The temper of Mrs. Leroy , however , becoming more excited , as she saw how little her sister sympathized in her view of the matter , now burst forth with redoubled vehemence ; she did not believe in the child 's illness ; it was all counterfeited ; Lydia was the most ungrateful of mortals , and Mabel was silly enough to be the dupe of this miserable family 's impositions . 
She could not conceive of her being so indifferent to the welfare of the boys , of whom she professed to be so fond ; poor children , they were accustomed to Lydia ; how would they like being away from home , and travelling too , under the care of a perfect stranger ? 
This appeal was irresistible to Mabel , and , with prompt generosity , she excalaimed , without a moment 's hesitation , `` take Cecilia , Louise . 
The consequence was , that in less than an hour after Mrs. Leroy reached home , a messenger was dispatched for Cecilia , requesting that she should come to the hotel without delay , and Mabel , thus unceremoniously deprived of her skilful attendant , was left to complete those personal preparations for travelling which had unexpectedly devolved upon her . 
It was night , and she was alone in her quiet room . 
Her mind was troubled ; and inwardly congratulating herself on the absence of her maid , whose presence would have been a restraint , she was , with alternate listlessness and feverish energy , engaged in packing for the morrow 's journey . 
Various articles of her wardrobe were spread out upon the bed . 
She folded a rich dress with care , as if to place it in the trunk , then , forgetful of her purpose , laid it away on the closet shelf . 
Now she hastily opened and shut her drawers and caskets , then withdrew to the window , and leaning her head on her hand looked out into the moonlight . 
The tempter , though absent from her side , was present to her thoughts ; but ever as her heart dwelt fondly on his last persuasive words , there came between her and his treacherous image , the form of her better angel , the sick and saintly Rose , whose mild , searching eyes seemed to follow her with a reproachful glance , whose little hand seemed lifted in timid yet fervent appeal , and whose low , childlike voice was continually whispering in her ear the simple words , `` Miss Mabel , have you a brother , and do you love him as I love Jack ? '' 
Her heart told her that she had not loved him thus , and she felt humbled at the contrast between her own shrinking , doubtful spirit , and the child 's unhesitating generosity . 
She pressed her throbbing head against the cool glass , and while she meditated on the pleasures of the morrow , strove to shut out every thought that preyed upon her peace . 
But conscience was aroused and would not be thus easily silenced , and the necessary preparation for the journey was forgotten , while her heart struggled with contending emotions . 
Mabel held her breath to listen , for she recognized the familiar tones of Harry , who paused at the street door , and seemed to be bidding adieu to one of his companions . 
exclaimed the voice of a strange individual , in reply to a remark from Harry , the words of which had escaped her ear . 
It thrilled through every fibre of Mabel 's frame . 
All the tender compassion of Mabel 's nature was aroused -- `` My poor brother ! 
was her mental exclamation , -- `` is there no good angel to save him yet ? '' 
She listened to his heavy and measured steps , as , after parting with his evil associate , he came slowly up the staircase ; he paused a moment at her door ; she thought he meant to enter , and bid her farewell , for he knew she was to depart early on the morrow ; but no , -- he passed on and ascended the next flight to his own chamber , which he entered , and closed the door . 
`` I can not leave him thus , '' thought Mabel , as she pictured him to herself , alone , ruined , uncared for ; and yielding to a sudden and tender impulse , she resolved to seek him , speak an affectionate word , and assure him of her love . 
She feared to knock at his door , lest she should be repulsed , or dismissed with a hasty good-bye ; so , gently opening it , she presented herself unexpectedly before him . 
He was pacing restlessly up and down the room , -- seemed almost angry at being intruded upon , as if he suspected that she had come to pry into his secret thoughts , and turning upon her with an abrupt , imperative air , appeared to demand the object of her errand . 
`` Harry , '' said she , her lip trembling with the effort to speak in a natural tone of voice , `` I could not bear to go away without bidding you good-bye ; '' she passed her arm , coaxingly , through his as she spoke , and accompanied him for a few steps in his walk up and down the room . 
With his face now obstinately turned from her , he answered only in the brief words , `` Are you going early in the morning ? '' 
`` I shall have no one else to write to me ; father will be away , and I have always depended on you , Harry , '' added she , in a tone calculated to impress him with the value she should place upon his letters . 
exclaimed he , with a slight nervous jerk , which was sufficient to induce her to let go his arm `` I shall have nothing worth telling , -- you 'll have plenty of better entertainment . '' 
she asked timidly . 
She found it hard to press the subject further , he was so short in his answers . 
She walked to the window and looked out , then strayed to the bureau and occupied herself in examining the trinkets which lay upon it , hoping Harry would broach some topic of mutual interest , but he remained perseveringly silent . 
She would gladly have drawn near , thrown her arms round his neck , and entreated his confidence , his renewed affection at parting , but he gave her no encouragement . 
`` It is late , I suppose , '' said she at length , seeing that he appeared surprised , if not impatient , at her lingering . 
`` So good-bye , Harry , '' and approaching him , she laid her hand on his shoulder . 
He started as if her touch pained him . 
She looked in his face earnestly , imploringly ; his features twitched , and there was a nervous embarrassment in his manner as , studionsly avoiding her eye , he stooped down , returned her parting kiss , and responded to her good-bye . 
With hurried and tremulous step Mabel hastened back to her room , threw herself on a low seat opposite the empty trunk , and burst into tears . 
She had sought her brother with a view to appeasing her overcharged feelings , and defraying a debt to her conscience , but neither purpose had been effected by the brief and unsatisfactory interview . 
She had found him in a desperate mood , -- she had read in his face the mental torture under which he writhed , -- she had failed to break down the barrier between her own heart and his , and with little more than a mechanical farewell she had turned her back upon his misery . 
Should she leave him thus , abandoned by his sister as well as by his better self ? 
The deep and almost hysterical sobs which escaped her , proved that the struggle of contending feelings had now reached its height , and for some minutes she wept as children weep , without any effort at self-control . 
As this storm of grief subsided , and she sat for a while maintaining an inward war , but apparently gazing into vacancy , she stretched forth her hand with an absent air and raised the inner lid of her trunk . 
As she did so she caught sight of a little package lying in a corner , directed to herself , in the familiar handwriting of Mrs. Herbert . 
Awed by the solemn charge , which she realized to be armed with divine authority , Mabel bowed her head upon the lid of her trunk , and , with the volume clasped in her hands , sunk upon her knees . 
Now rose before her that long forgotten scene in her childhood , when first Mrs. Herbert had striven to impress upon her this great lesson . 
She was amazed at the sight of Mabel 's trunk , which was still empty , while every article of her scattered wardrobe was restored to its customary place . 
`` I am not going , Cecilia , '' said Mabel calmly , in answer to her look of astonishment . 
And she dismissed her with a parting charge to retire as soon as possible , as she would be obliged to rise early . 
Not until she had thus confirmed by act the heroic resolution of her mind , did she realize the exhaustion consequent upon agitation and excitement ; but now , with a welcome sense of relief from tormenting doubts , and a humble reliance upon the power to which she had looked for strength , she gladly sought the rest which tired nature craves , and fell into a sweet and dreamless sleep , such as for many a week had deserted her pillow . 
So it was with Mabel , when she awoke the morning after her supposed self-conquest , oppressed with a painful sense of lassitude and despondency , which made it an effort to rise and dress , and a still greater effort to look back upon the past with composure , and forward into the future with cheerfulness . 
She fully realized the unexpected truth , that not by one spasmodic effort can the soul achieve the sublime heights of self-denying virtue , but only by continual and persevering struggles , and a patient resting upon Him whose promise is steadfast , -- `` I will never leave you nor forsake you . '' 
Fortunately , her little Bible was close at hand , with its blessed words of encouragement and peace ; and after resorting to its pages for counsel , and commending herself to Heaven in prayer , she felt in some degree prepared to meet the events of the day . 
In the hall leading to the dining-room she met Robert , who reported the departure of the pleasure-party , all , according to his account , in high spirits except Alick and Murray , both of whom were crying with disappointment at her absence . 
Mabel felt a rising in the throat , and a painful sinking of the spirits , as she thought of the dear children 's grief and the still greater void which would be felt in the company by one who would join them at noon , would look for her amid the party , and , astonished at her absence , perhaps misconstruing its cause , would vainly seek from Louise a satisfactory solution of the mystery . 
Light as was the touch , it drew tears from Mabel 's eyes , and left its impress on her heart for many a long day afterward . 
It seemed to reward her sacrifice with a father 's blessing . 
`` You see I have not gone , '' said Mabel , with an attempt at playfulness , as he made his appearance in the door-way and stopped short at sight of her . 
`` We women have such a blessed privilege of changing our minds , you know , '' added she in the same tone . 
asked he quickly , at the same time looking her anxiously and inquiringly in the face . 
`` Oh , yes , quite well , but I concluded to stay at home and make tea and coffee for father and you ; taste and see if that is sweet enough , '' continued she , as she handed him a cup of steaming Mocha which she had been preparing . 
Mabel could not be sure whether he were suspicious or not that her journey had been abandoned on his account ; but she was pained at the evident annoyance which her presence and attentions occasioned him . 
So manifest was his desire to escape her observations , that she strayed to the window , busied herself in feeding a canary , whose cage was suspended there , and when Harry suddenly and impatiently started up and left the room , forbore to question or follow him . 
She knew very well that the recovery of her influence over her brother must be the work of time and patience , and that he would not endure to be either watched or catechised . 
So this day proved no exception to the ordinary rule , and , as usual , he strolled from home soon after breakfast , without giving her any hint of his destination , or the probable time of his return . 
It was hard to see him walk away so indifferent to her newly roused affection , her anxiety , her prayers in his behalf , and to be left alone to reflect on the seeming uselessness of the sacrifice she had made . 
Had this sacrifice involved some active labor , some constant employment for head and hands , it would have been comparatively easy to one of Mabel 's energetic temperament . 
Thus it was not strange that her spirits flagged , as she wandered listlessly from room to room ; that her thoughts strayed to the pleasure-bound company of whom she had hoped to make one ; and that as the remembrance of a still dearer hope agitated her heart , she could not resist the obtruding regret or check the rising tear . 
But Mabel by nature was neither weak nor desponding ; uncertainty and doubt had , it is true , to some degree paralyzed her powers , and while halting between two opinions her irresolute conduct had betrayed the indecision of her mind . 
The path of rightt made plain , however , and conscientiously adopted , there was a firmness , stability , and self-respect in her character which , with the aid of Christian principle , gave promise that , cost her what it might , she would pursue it faithfully to the end . 
`` I have made my choice , '' thought she , as , starting up from an indolent and meditative posture , she seemed at the same time to shake off the morbid and disciuraging fancies which were gradually settling down upon her mind . 
Mabel made more than one attempt to thank this long-tried friend for her recently discovered and precious gift , to express some sense of the earnest gratitude she felt for all her love and counsel , and rejoice her heart with the assurance that the lessons so faithfully imparted to her in youth were destined to be the guide of her womanhood ; but each time she shrunk from the difficulties involved in such an attempt , and at length laid down her pen in despair of succeeding to her own satisfaction . 
She dared not boast of resolutions not yet confirmed by practice ; she feared to betray the secret of her disquiet and unhappiness , nor could she compromise Harry by replying truthfully to the many inquiries concerning him , which Mrs. Herbert 's affectionate interest in his welfare had suggested . 
Harry did not make his appearance , however , and Mabel , as she sat opposite her father at table , was struck with his extremely anxious and haggard countenance . 
Mabel declared herself ready to go or remain , as he thought best , and no more was said on the subject ; but after a hurried repast , he rose to repair to his office . 
The weather was tempting , there was no prospect of Harry 's return for some hours , and Mabel proposed to accompany her father a part of the way . 
He assented to the proposition in an absent manner , and paced the hall impatiently until she appeared ready for the walk . 
So silent and self-engrossed was he , that Mabel walked beside him for the distance of several squares , without his addressing a syllable to her , nor could she fail to observe with pain an increased stoop in his figure , and tremulousness in his gait . 
She left him at the corner of the street leading to the widow Hope 's dwelling ; and as she proceeded thither to inquire after Rose , her sadness at these symptoms of old age and debility in her recently strong and vigorous parent , was mingled with a fresh glow of self-gratulation that she had not suffered herself to act in direct opposition to his wishes . 
She did , indeed , seem changed ; there was an expression on the little face such as Mabel had never seen there before ; it seemed to tell of some inward rapture , some foretaste of coming glory . 
`` Miss Mabel , '' said Rose , in her little quiet voice , when her mother had walked away , and Lydia had returned to the counter , `` it is n't that I am any better , but it has given me such beautiful thoughts all day , and such beautiful dreams all night . 
`` Earth is but a sad place , after all , Rosy , '' said Mabel , with a sigh . 
The child 's ear , tuned to that plaintive minor chord which reveals the suffering of the heart , recognized as by intuition the mood of Mabel 's mind , and turning upon her a face full of tender anxiety , she said , `` Do you call it sad ? 
`` Oh , Rosy , '' said Mabel , glancing up at the engraving from which , as usual , Rose 's figure was drawn , `` I can not see my way at all , there is such a thick cloud over head . '' 
She had not calculated upon the effect of this acknowledgment , which she would have shrunk from making to one less simple-hearted and innocent than Rose . 
It seemed to establish at once the only bond of sympathy ever wanting between herself and the suffering child , who seized her hand , pressed it to her thin lips , and exclaimed , fervently , `` God will show the way , Miss Mabel ; he will lighten your path as he has lightened mine . '' 
Mabel could not answer , except by the tears which started to her eyes . 
I see it all now , though , '' she added , a glow overspreading and irradiating her pale face , while the eyes that had lost their strained appearance seemed calmly to contemplate a near and visible joy . 
She looked , indeed , like one already half translated , as , borne on the wings of faith , she saw all her past sufferings merged in the fulness of joy . 
Such a clear discerning of God 's providence in one who had groped her way through a sea of suffering , was like a light shining in a dark place . 
The cloud seemed lifted from Mabel 's future , as she listened to the child 's grateful tribute to the love which had crowned her days . 
`` Dear Rose , dear child , '' said she , `` it does me good to see you so happy . 
The child smiled at the last word , then with mingled sweetness and gravity , whispered , drawing Mabel down so that her mouth came close to her ear , `` God will send his blessed angels to teach you all my secrets , and I will pray to Him every night to take away your cloud . '' 
From this time , the relations hitherto subsisting between Mabel and Rose seemed totally reversed . 
Until now , the former had acted the part of the elder , stronger , wiser friend , but in this , and in all their future interviews , the strength , the wisdom , and the riper years , which had constituted her superiority , instinctively gave place to that experience in Heavenly truth , that knowledge of things divine , in which Rose was the thoroughly-gifted teacher , and she but the humble disciple . 
Beauty , wealth , and a high place in the social scale , all combined to render Mabel , as she had ever been , the object of the sick girl 's respectful admiration ; and the infirmities of Rose , more than ever , claimed the tenderest compassion in return ; but a shadow had fallen on the path of the one , while the other had reached the point where all shadows flee away ; and the maiden who had but just begun to meet the battle of life , gladly caught up the sacred weapons with which the child had achieved her victory . 
Thus , almost daily , she found herself drawn to that little sanctuary of holy hopes , devout meditations , and serene joy , where not she alone , but many a troubled heart besides , learned a true and lasting lesson from the unconscious glow of piety which illumined the face of the wasted and now dying girl . 
Almost to the last , she occupied her little flag-bottomed arm-chair , in the window of her mother 's shop , reluctant to give up her daily and loving intercourse with the numerous friends who looked to see her there , and so much was Mabel with her during the last fortnight of her life , that her face , too , became familiar to the neighborhood , which seemed animated by a grateful affection for Rosy 's beautiful friend . 
Only in after years did Mabel herself fully realize the source whence most of her holy aspirations were drawn ; only when she had proved the fallacy of more presumptuous teachers , and learned that the sublimest truths are often those which God has hid from the wise and prudent , and has revealed unto babes ! 
On the day of the conversation with Rose , some portion of which has been related in detail , she left the widow Hope 's shop to return home , with a heart wonderfully cheered and lightened of its burthen . 
It was nearly dark , when , as she crossed the little park in the direction leading to her father 's house , she overtook Harry . 
He had entered the square from a different street , and seeing her hastening towards him , stopped and waited for her . 
`` You have been walking fast , '' said he , as she came up . 
`` Yes , '' she answered , a little out of breath , `` I saw it was getting dark . '' 
He did not ask where she had been , but walked beside her in silence , and when they reached the house , accompanied her up the steps and rang the bell . 
exclaimed she , adding with womanly tact , `` I shall be all alone . '' 
She knew how much more readily in his present mood he would confer than receive a favor . 
asked she , turning quickly to Robert . 
`` Tea , '' muttered he , as he reluctantly followed her into the hall , `` who wants tea such a warm evening ? '' 
`` Aunt Sabiah says one is always cooler after tea in summer , '' replied she playfully , leading the way as she spoke to her little treasure apartment . 
Far as it was from being a genuine , hearty laugh , Mabel hailed it as of good omen , and flinging her bonnet upon the table , and throwing open the blinds of a wide window extending to the floor , she at once gave admittance to the breeze , and imparted an attractive air to the little apartment . 
Mabel sat down on the window-sill resting her feet on a little balcony outside . 
It reminded Mabel of similar evenings at her grandmother 's , or Mrs. Herbert 's , when she and Harry had sat together for hours on the door-step in the moon-light . 
She ventured some reference to those bygone days , and Harry , falling in with her train of thought , listened without impatience to her reminiscences , and even called up incidents in their childhood which had quite escaped her recollection . 
Tremblingly rejoicing in the success which was attending her efforts , Mabel spared no pains to render the occasion agreeable . 
She ordered tea to be brought to them instead of descending to the dining-room , and bade Robert light the alabaster lamp , which threw a scarcely less soft and pleasant glow of light through the room than that which prevailed out-side . 
Now and then Harry rose and paced the room nervously , as if on the point of leaving her ; then , seeming to think she would be lonely , -- possibly timid , -- for there was an unusual noise of voices in the street below , he sat down again , and so the evening passed away . 
Mabel could not but suspect that he had staid with her reluctantly , but it was no slight triumph that he had remained on any terms , and it was an inexpressible satisfaction to bid him good-night , and see him ascend to his own room , like the Harry of former times . 
Taught by this instance of success , she afterwards made frequent appeals to his kind and brotherly feeling , and occasionally with a similar result . 
She needed exercise , -- would he take a walk with her ? 
she longed for the country air , -- would he not drive her out ? 
selfish pleas , which she might reasonably urge , for her life was one of unusual restraint and monotony . 
She chose for her constant occupancy a seat in her little room , where Harry was almost sure to find her whenever he felt the disposition , and it soon became evident that his desire to avoid her society was somewhat abated , as he often lounged in for a few moments at a time , either after breakfast , or when he chanced to return home to dinner . 
But though he no longer seemed to look upon her as one seeking occasion to watch and censure him , and though now and then she succeeded in engrossing a short interval of his time , these grounds of hope were slight and infrequent , while her discouragements were continual and pressing . 
Midnight and the early morning hours often found Mabel at her solitary window , awaiting his return ; and the disappointment of his failing to come at all was less bitter than the coarse jokes , angry oaths , or wild , wandering glances , which at times betrayed his sad condition . 
Her father , too , was evidently the subject of more than one harassing anxiety . 
Those fatal charts over which he had pored all winter , engrossed his time whenever he chanced to be at home , and , frequently , when he left the house , he rolled them up and took them under his arm , while Mabel watched him as he came and went every time with a deeper shadow on his brow . 
And there was still another for whom she watched and waited , who came not at all ; another footstep whose fancied echo now and then caused her a sudden start ; another form which haunted her by day and stole into her dreams at night ; but step and form were alike imaginary . 
Had there been a letter , or a message simply , it might have afforded some solace to her aching heart -- had Louise even written , and incidentally alluded to the companions of her journey ; but no , all was blank silence , and Mabel was forced to the conclusion -- he does not trust , perhaps he never loved . 
All her faith , indeed , was needed to sustain her drooping spirits in the many lonely hours to which she was condemned . 
As she wandered through the solitary rooms of her father 's spacious house , she sometimes longed for the idle rattle of Louise , the merry voices of the boys , or even the light foot and busy tongue of Cecilia , to break the dreary silence and monotony . 
But in these seasons of sad and solitary reflection , deprived of all human sympathy , Mabel began to experience how sweet it is to draw near to the ever-present friend , who has bid His children cast all their cares upon Him , for He careth for them ; she learned to realize in these bitter hours of life , that there is one eye that never sleepeth , one ear that is ever open to the suppliant 's cry ; and often , rising above her sorrows and forgetting her solitude , she was ready to exclaim , `` I am not alone , because the Father is with me . '' 
Mr. Vaughan still delayed his journey to the West , and gave Mabel no new intimation of his wish that she should start for L. Perhaps he still hoped that Harry , who had listened in moody silence to the declaration of his wishes in respect to his profession , and had thus far shown no disposition to carry them into effect , would at length manifest some symptoms of compliance and accompany her . 
This period was one to Mabel of painful suspense ; the formality of the interview left her little doubt of its importance , and she could easily conjecture the nature of the subjects likely to be brought up . 
Deeply agitated , trembling so that she could scarcely stand , and straining her ears to catch the slightest sound , she remained in the spot where they had left her , until she heard the library door open and saw Harry leave the house , folowed soon after by Mr. Vaughan , who , walking slowly , with his bands behind him , looked like one upon whom trouble has fallen with a sudden weight , which he is calculating the chances and possibilities of relieving . 
She learned , afterwards , that her father and brother had been engaged in settling the preliminaries of the latter 's leaving New York for L. ; and that these preliminaries consisted of a confession on Harry 's part of a heavy debt -LRB- a debt of honor , so called , contracted at the gaming table -RRB- , which effectually prevented his leaving the city , and of an agreement , with difficulty entered into by his already embarrassed parent , to meet the demand and free him from the mortifying shackles , upon condition of his conforming strictly to his views , and at once commencing the study of law with Judge Paradox . 
It was only after a considerable lapse of time , however , that Mabel became aware of these facts , and at present she was left to all the pain of uncertainty and apprehension . 
This was somewhat allayed by the circumstance that her father and Harry both returned home at an earlier hour than usual , and by her observing that , thought excessively constrained in each other 's society , they seemed individually to be relieved , and in a slight degree cheered ; the one that he had made a confession which it was no longer possible to escape , and the other from a conviction that , bad as the case was , he now knew the worst . 
Mabel also learned that her father 's long postponed trip to the West would take place immediately upon his having dismissed the servants , and closed the house , measures which he had resolved to adopt , as he should be absent for an indefinite period . 
She had now plenty of employment . 
For the first time she realized the necessity of looking over her father 's wardrobe , and providing for his comfort , during the many weeks of his absence ; and this , with similar cares for herself and Harry , promised ample occupation , and caused her to rejoice in that womanly skill and capability which made her independent of Cecilia , who had usually officiated with her needle in this department . 
Had Mabel had more experience in cases of slow decline she would not have been astonished at this summons , for , to those who understood Rose 's symptoms , it was only a matter of surprise that she had lingered so long ; but Mabel had not realized , until now , how surely and speedily death must follow the decay , whose progress she had marked step by step , and a chill and shudder cerpt over her frame as she hastily prepared to follow the little messenger , who had run back as swiftly as she came . 
Although the day was oppressively hot , she would not wait for the carriage , but walking a short distance , and then availing herself of a Broadway omnibus , she soon reached her destination . 
An air of unusual quiet and sadness seemed to pervade the little street ; the neighbors looked after Mabel as she passed , wondering whether she , like them , knew of the fearful change which a few hours had made ; the children had ceased their play , and two of the elder ones sat weeping on the door-step of the closed shop . 
Mabel approached the little alley which communicated with the rear of the building , and at its entrance encountered Rosy 's sturdy friend , the youthful teamster , who was brushing his rough sleeve across his eyes , and did not see her until she paused to let him pass . 
Overwhelmed with pity for the boy , to whom she could not venture to speak , and suspecting that a similar scene prevailed in doors , Mabel was hesitating whether she should not depart without intruding into the house of mourning , when the widow , who had caught sight of her figure through the window , came out to meet her . 
Mabel took her hand and glanced from her face , which was perfectly calm , to that of the agitated Jack . 
She 's asleep now , as quiet as a lamb ; it 's a chance whether she ever wakes , but if she should , Miss Mabel , I thought she 'd like to rest her eyes on your face again ; she asked for you once or twice in the night , -- so if you 'll come in '' -- Mabel followed without speaking , -- for she could not speak , -- into the little room . 
She was indeed sleeping sweetly , her little hands clasped on her breast , her golden hair thrown back upon the pillow , and a smile upon her face , which seemed to tell of heavenly dreams . 
An hour passed on and still she slept ; the room was so quiet , that each breath of the little sleeper might be counted ; there was no noise outside , for love had set its faithful guard around the house , and every footfall in the neighborhood was softened , every loud voice hushed . 
As if the parting spirit , which had left its radiance on the mortal clay , still hovered above their heads , they all for a while stood motionless and awed ; then , as a consciousness of the dread reality rushed upon them , Jack darted from the room with a loud cry of anguish , Lydia buried her head in her mother 's lap , and Mabel , drawing her veil over her face , glided noiselessly away . 
They buried her on a quiet hill-side , where the grass and wild flowers might grow on the little grave , where summer insects and soaring birds might chirp and sing above it , and where the murmur of running water fell upon the ear . 
A messenger was dispatched in due season by Mabel , to make every possible offer of assistance , but all that love could dictate had been done already ; the humble neighbors had vied with each other in their efforts to comfort the family and honor the memory of the angel child . 
The funeral was appointed for the day preceding that on which Mabel was to leave New York , and she was in attenance at an early hour . 
The house was quiet and in perfect order ; she entered at the shop door , but the bell was muffled and gave forth no sound . 
The kitchen into which she passed was vacant , save that the child , clad in her snow white robes , seemingly lay sleeping there . 
`` She is not here , -- she is risen , '' said a low , solemn voice , close at Mabel 's side . 
She looked up , unconscious that any one had entered the room , where she stood absorbed in contemplation . 
Mabel recognized him at once , though she could not recall his name . 
He seemed regardless , however , of ceremony , in resuming his acquaintance with her , and continued -- `` You have known this child , -- for she was a child in years , '' he added , as if feeling that in some sense the term was misapplied . 
Mabel bowed in assent , her tearful face speaking plainly of the affection she had felt for her . 
Perhaps Mabel 's expression as he spoke , revealed some surprise at the personal interest implied in his remark , for he said again , -- `` Yes , I am very glad you knew her . 
exclaimed Mabel fervently , -- `` she is still . '' 
`` I pray God , '' he continued , laying his hand solemnly on Mabel 's head , `` that He will perfect and finish the good work which , through one of his humblest servants , He has begun in you . '' 
So saying , he went to meet Mrs. Hope in the little inner room , and Mabel turned away to recover her self-command . 
As she stood resting her hand on the mantel-piece above the kitchen stove , she caught sight of an open daguerreotype case , which , on a nearer inspection , she discovered to contain a likeness of Rosy . 
Mabel was wondering that she had never seen it before , and was blessing God in her heart for that beneficent invention in which rich and poor may almost be said to share alike , when Jack appeared at her side and attempted to speak . 
Except at Rosy 's death-bed , Mabel had never seen him since the day they met in the grocer 's shop , and the latter scene rose full before her as she turned and met his eager face . 
Impressed by her glance , and half choked with his own grief , the boy made one or two vain attempts to articulate . 
The little neighborhood now began to assemble , and Mabel , retreating to a corner , was touched to see them enter . 
Mabel found herself alone in the deserted house . 
She had left her carriage at some little distance , feeling that its rich trappings would be a mockery in this place of humble , sacred sorrow . 
She looked round the little shop as if bidding it a long farewell , then stepped upon the sidewalk . 
`` We sha n't ever see her there no more , '' said she to Mabel , pointing with her crutch to the little empty arm-chair , `` but , '' and she looked up to the sky above , `` Heaven do n't seem so far off to an old body like me , now that I know she 's sittin ' at some bright winder up there , watchin ' to see me comin ' in . '' 
`` Drive out on the Bloomingdale road , Donald , '' said Mabel , when she reached the carriage . 
They did so ; and as the little train moved into the unpretending cemetery , Mabel alighted and joined the mourners , who were grouped around the grave . 
They saw the child laid in her quiet resting-place , -- they waited and listened with sad hearts , while Owen and the milk-boy , who had reached the spot before them , gently heaped the earth upon her grave , and then they went away . 
Mabel lingered a little behind the rest , feeling , as the earth closed over the remains of her little friend , scarcely less bereaved than the broken-hearted group who had looked their last upon the darling of their hearts . 
`` Dear Rosy , '' thought she , as seating herself on the grass of the sloping hill-side , she strewed the mound with the flowers which she had brought for the purpose , `` ` He maketh thee to lie down in green pastures , he leadeth thee beside the still waters ; ' thine earthly pilgrimage was hard , but its end is peace , joy , and everlasting life . '' 
Mabel 's first appearance with Mrs. Ridgway at church , was the realization of a long delayed hope , and it was with proportionate disappointment that many an eye looked in vain for her brother , who , in spite of his aunt 's offended looks and protestations , lay stretched on a sofa at home . 
It was well , perhaps , that he staid away on this occasion , for the presence of Mabel alone proved sufficient to turn the heads of all the young girls in the congregation . 
Her height , her dress , her complexion , were duly studied , and more than one little piece of vanity spent the whole of the sermon time mentally endeavoring to cut the pattern of a graceful fall of lace , which gave Miss Vaughan 's straw bonnet such a genteel air . 
Mabel 's manners , beauty , and becoming attire , furnished no small source of novelty and interest , but the innovations and surprises which Harry introduced , were of a still more startling and original nature in the eyes of the quiet towns people . 
Thus the town of L. , so far from proving a place of summer retirement and repose , had been suddenly thrown into a ferment , and Mabel and Harry found themselves in the very centre of a whirl and excitement of their own creating . 
Mabel would say , when morning visitors were announced . 
In a moment more the bustling , flurried , impatient Mrs. Ridgway would put her head inside the door , exclaiming , `` Make haste , Mabel . 
It 's the So and So 's ; do hurry down , they 're such pleasant people , -- been so attentive to me since Mr. Ridgway died , '' and Mabel , dressing her face in the smile which masked a heavy heart , would go down and do her best to give satisfaction . 
Change of scene , and relief from the embarrassments he had woven around himself in New York , for a time checked him in his self-indulgent course , and Mabel began to hope that her never-ceasing care and influence , the restraints of her aunt 's house , and interest in the study of his profession , would prove efficient and salutary safeguards , and finally restore him to himself . 
With aching heart , Mabel saw her short-lived hopes extinguished , and trembled more than ever for the consequences of her brother 's reckless and wild career . 
She had but two rules for her own conduct regarding him , -- there were but two agents which she employed for his salvation , and these were love and prayer . 
Not by word or look did she censure or blame him . 
She well knew that judgment belongeth unto God , and can only be rashly assumed by any , -- least of all by a sister . 
Though forbearing to reproach her brother , bitterly did Mabel now reproach herself for the many wasted and misspent hours which had robbed her of his society and confidence , and given her in return only blighted hopes , wasted affections , and a grieved and wounded spirit . 
Shrink from it as she might , disown , as she long did , the cruel thought , the conviction gradually forced itself upon her , that her heart had been perseveringly sought to be lightly discarded , that it had garnered up its treasures in one who prized not the gift , and that the friendship which to her had seemed the crowning circumstance of life , had been to him but a winter 's pastime . 
Had this conjecture still admitted of a doubt , that doubt would have been effectually removed by a letter received from Mrs. Leroy about a fortnight after Mabel 's arrival in L . 
Fan Broadhead seemed to think the world was made for her . 
Mabel had read and re-read this letter some half dozen times ; had thought and wept over its contents , and it still lay open on her lap , when her solitude was broken in upon by the entrance of her aunt Sabiah ; it was one of her trials now , that she seldom had an hour which she could enjoy without interruption . 
`` Seems to me I would go to the party to-night , Mabel , '' said she in a subdued voice , as if she believed some one were listening at the key-hole , `` she 's got her heart so set on it . '' 
`` Oh , do n't ask me to do that , aunt , '' replied Mabel , a little impatiently , rising abruptly from her seat , and thrusting her letter into her pocket . 
Every body is at times , '' added she , as Sabiah glanced from the letter to her face . 
`` It ca n't make any difference to her , '' said Mabel . 
Under ordinary circumstances Mabel would have felt bound to comply with the wishes of either of her aunts , even at some sacrifice to herself ; but her present state of mind rendered the thought of appearing among a crowd of strangers harrowing in the extreme ; and she endeavored to parry Sabiah 's arguments with the words , `` But I should not make a fine show . 
She spoke the last words almost at random ; but Sabiah , putting a very natural interpretation upon them , replied in a half sympathizing , half expostulatory tone , `` Well , child , I suppose you are -- a part of the time , at least . 
Mrs. Paradox just sent round to invite you to go in her carriage , and you can send back word that you will , and so it will be all settled , and you 'll have a nice time , and Margaret will be suited , and -- '' Sabiah 's enumeration of the happy results of Mabel 's compliance was here interrupted by the loud voice of Mrs. Ridgway , calling to her on some household matter , and she was compelled to hurry away , Mabel saying to her as she went , `` I can not go , Aunt Sabiah ; indeed , I can not . 
said she sharply , turning upon Mabel , whose interest she had evidently been striving to awaken all the while . 
Mabel , who , lost in a reverie , had been conscious of nothing beyond Harry 's announcement of his intentions , looked up with an absent air , and when he immediately added , `` Why , you mean to go , do n't you , May ? '' 
she faltered out , `` Yes , if you will take me with you . '' 
exclaimed her aunt , in a manner at once taunting and self-gratulatory , `` So you can not resist this handsome young stranger . 
With only a dim conception of her aunt 's meaning , but willing that her change of purpose should be attributed to any thing rather than the real motive , Mabel allowed the remark to pass unchallenged , and even submitted patiently to a succession of similar petty sarcasms , which were coarse rather than ill-natured , for Mrs. Ridgway was too well satisfied with the triumph she had achieved to be intentionally severe . 
She little suspected , meanwhile , the far greater triumph Mabel had gained over her own feelings in thus consenting to accompany Harry , for whom she dreaded some less desirable companionship if she should indulge her own wishes by remaining at home . 
`` Now wear something handsome , '' was the eager and almost imperative remark with which poor Mabel was assailed a few hours later , when , seated alone in her room , with Louise 's letter once more in her hand , she had for the moment forgotten the cruel ordeal in store for her that evening . 
`` Come , let me see your dresses ; '' and , without ceremony , her pertinacious aunt lifted the lid of a travelling-box which contained the richer articles of her wardrobe , and one after another spread them out for inspection . 
As might have been expected , she at once made choice of the gayest and richest ball dress among them all , and Mabel could have cried with vexation at the persevering energy with which she insisted upon her niece 's appearing in a costume as ill-suited to the occasion as to her painfully depressed state of mind . 
A compromise was at length effected , by which an exquisite flounced muslin was substituted for the gay silken fabric ; and although the delicate texture of the former , and its choice trimming and embroidery , rendered it unsuitable in Mabel 's eyes for a six miles ' drive , she was thankful to have in some degree overruled her aunt 's bad taste , and to be allowed to indulge the hope that , clothed in spotless white , she should , at least , fail to be conspicuous . 
It was a proud moment for Mrs. Ridgway when Harry 's little phaeton drove to the door ; when her handsome niece came down stairs , attired in the newest fashion -- though she did wish she had put on a gayer sash -- when Harry appeared with such beautiful little shirt-frills as she had no idea young gentlemen wore now-a-days ; when she accompanied them down to the gate , to tuck in Mabel 's dress and spread a shawl across her lap ; when Judge Paradox passed by at the moment and bowed ; when the neighbors ran to the window to see the young New Yorkers start ; and when , finally , the intractable mare , after many vain attempts to get away , dashed furiously down the street , -- Sabiah in the meantime standing in the doorway , vexing her poor heart lest Mad Sallie should break Mabel 's neck , and she never forgive herself for having persuaded the dear child to run such an awful risk . 
Weary with the unsuccessful effort to rally her wounded and agitated spirits , Mabel had a moment before sought refuge in a recess formed by a projecting mantel piece and the partition wall of the library , and , while ostensibly endeavoring to make the acquaintance of a child permitted to sit up beyond its usual bed-time , she was striving to collect and refresh her scattered senses , and already exhausted powers . 
It may well be believed that she was but little aided in the effort by the above dialogue , every word of which reached her ears , though until her name was spoken at its close , she had no suspicion to whom it referred . 
Like a hunted deer , which in seeking a place of rest only finds itself the subject of new and painful embarassments , she started , and without looking in the direction of the voices , crossed with a quick step to the other extremity of the well-filled room , thus putting a little throng of people between herself and the unwary speakers . 
She had recognized Bessie 's lively tones , but those of her uncle were unfamiliar ; and having gained the shelter of the crowd , the impulse was irresistible to look back and discover who it might be who had judged her with so much severity . 
The good-natured Bessie forbore to reproach him , though feeling scarcely less grieved than Mabel herself . 
She experienced a partial triumph , however , when the young man , after following with his eyes the object of his remarks , and watching the quick blood mount to her temples , turned to his little niece and said , `` Bessie , she has convinced me , where you have failed . 
It was the concession of a candid , truth-loving mind , but Mabel , unfortunately , could not have the benefit of it , and was left , as many have been under like circumstances , to the stinging consciousness that a burdened , humiliated , anxious heart , while seeking to hide its oppressive secrets from the unsympathizing eye of the world , too frequently lays itself open to misconstruction and undeserved reproach . 
But it was some consolation to believe , that , except in one unguarded moment , she had successfully feigned a composure which she did not feel , and this thought once more restoring her to apparent calmness , she continued to measure out her words and smiles , which Bayard , with no little discrimination , had discovered to be artificial and forced . 
There were several fine voices among the company , and some popular glees being called for , Mabel readily consented to preside at the piano , and furnish the accompaniment , a difficult accomplishment for one who does not take part in the singing ; but , although diffident in respect to her vocal powers , she had an exquisite ear for music , and this had always at school been her disinterested province . 
Satisfied with an office which , to one so familiar with it , involved little more than a mechanical effort , and soothed and cheered by the sound of Harry 's fine bass voice , which she rejoiced to hear , lending depth to the song , she played a long time without consciousness of fatigue , and finally received , with much of her natural sweetness and grace , the thanks of the group who were assembled around the piano . 
She still occupied the music-stool , and was engaged in conversation with the senior Mr. Bloodgood , who stood beside her , when she suddenly became conscious that some one was waiting to take her place at the instrument , and looking quickly up , she recognized the individual , who , a little while ago , had made her the subject of his criticism . 
Perhaps , as she promptly vacated the place and withdrew outside the circle , he was reminded of the dread he had expressed of her vicinity . 
If so , however , it must have been his conscience rather than her manner which so reminded him , for she returned his gentlemanly acknowledgement of her rising with a graceful courtesy , and there was nothing marked or rude in her quietly retreating to a distance . 
As the instrument was so situated that the performer faced the company , and she dreaded the embarrassment of again meeting his eye , she purposely strolled through the back parlor into the library , leaning on the arm of her obliging host , who was soon after summoned away by a servant . 
Thus left alone among strangers , she could not resist listening with pleasure to the slow , impressive , and beautiful symphony which proceeded from the piano , and was inwardly commenting on the taste and skill of the performer , when he suddenly commenced singing ; and , as a lull among the company immediately succeeded , the rich , mellow notes of his voice fell upon her ear , the effect seemingly unmarred by distance . 
Never before had Mabel heard such music . 
It was true her enjoyment of the art had been limited , but a far wider experience might well have failed to awaken such impressions as those which were inspired by the strains of this gifted singer . 
Though the clear , full notes penetrated through all the lower apartments of the house , Mabel found herself instinctively drawn in the direction whence they proceeded , as if to make sure that they did not have their source in some illusion of the senses , and , half forgetting , wholly disregarding her previous desire to avoid the presence of the young stranger , she noiselessly but unhesitatingly glided through the hall and stationed herself among a little throng of listeners , in the doorway opposite the piano . 
She had not dared to scan his face attentively before ; now she could not resist doing so , nor could she fail to acknowledge that it was a countenance worthy of the inspired song , -- a countenance in which gentleness and force were most harmoniously blended . 
In proof of this , Mabel was forcibly reminded by his striking exterior , of a picture she had once seen representing some youthful Norsemen of the times of Hengist and Horsa , to one figure in which group she detected in him a marked resemblance . 
Though Mabel might be excused for terming the neighborhood of L. a country district , in comparison with New York , Mrs. Ridgway was right in asserting that no one could entertain company more elegantly than their Member of Congress ; and she might also have added , with truth , that no city could furnish a choicer collection of guests than would be sure to assemble at his house . 
It was with trembling heart that , towards the close of the evening , Mabel lingered near the door of this room , vainly hoping to attract Harry 's attention and , under the plea of a long drive , persuade him to return home . 
He stood directly opposite to her , but the supper-table was between them , and in the increasing hilarity which prevailed she found it impossible to catch his eye , while every moment of delay rendered it more doubtful whether he would regard a sister 's summons . 
The light joke was passing from lip to lip , and each had his foaming glass raised awaiting the coming toast , when Bayard , approaching with a quick step from the drawing-room , passed Mabel without observing her , and stepping to the table took from it a tumbler and a pitcher , which proved to be empty . 
In the hurry and excitement of their movements , one of the reckless youths who passed through the door at the same moment with Bayard , roughly jostled the arm of the latter , causing a large proportion of the water which he carried to be suddenly spilled on the dress and arm of Mabel , who stood , as we have said , just within the hall . 
He turned quickly to apologize for the accident ; but the words died on his lips as he recognized her and observed the expression of her countenance , realizing as he did , at the same moment , the painfulness of her situation . 
Her face was deathly pale , her colorless lips were tightly compressed , and her hand nervously clasped the railing of a hattree which was within her reach ; while the intense suffering which was written on her features , the earnest , pleading , and half-bewildered look with which she met the eye , now fixed upon her , were such as to excite the tenderest compassion in her behalf . 
From the moment when Bayard thus came to the rescue , until that when he left the house with his self-assumed charge , he was followed by the anxious gaze of the agitated and trembling Mabel . 
She watched his face , his motions , understood his generous intentions at a glance , read the secret of his power , witnessed his success , and at length , with a heart relieved from an inexpressible weight , comforted herself with the assurance , that come what might , both she and her brother were under safe and certain guardianship . 
It was comparatively easy now to rally her self-possession , to converse with the friends , who almost at the same moment claimed her attention , to accompany them to the drawing-room , and once more resume her part in that social scene , which to all but her seemed replete with gaiety and pleasure . 
From the window near which she stood she could distinguish two tall figures walking slowly up and down at a distance beneath the trees . 
As if they had been the sentinels stationed without some post of danger , she felt herself animated with new confidence and hope , as at regular intervals they passed and repassed within her sight . 
This knowledge afforded security for the present moment , and beyond that she dared not think . 
The figures of the young men were no longer discernible in the dim moon-light , and Mabel began once more to experience a painful uncertainty and dread , which reached its height , when , on looking up , she saw Bayard standing just within the room , unaccompanied by Harry , and apparently looking about him in search of some one . 
Suddenly he caught her eye , and instantly crossing the room , approached , and spoke in a voice inaudible to any one but herself . 
Unhesitatingly , and without a word , she took his offered arm ; in some mechanical manner , she scarcely knew how , said farewell to Mrs. Bloodgood , and with a hurried step ran up stairs for her cloak . 
`` Do not be afraid , '' said he in a low voice as he handed Mabel into the light vehicle ; `` I am confident you will reach town in safety . '' 
The groom held up his lantern once more to see that all was right , and as the carriage swept rapidly round the corner of the house , the glare fell full on the face of Mabel , who had lifted her hitherto bowed head , and turned to bestow a parting glance on her own and her brother 's benefactor . 
Mabel 's first sensations as she drove down the avenue and gained the open road , were those only of indescribable relief and deliverance from dreaded danger . 
But though her brother was rescued from further disgrace , no trifling peril of a far different nature awaited them both . 
She could not disguise from herself the fact that Harry was incapable of managing his spirited steed or of distinguishing the road , the intricacy of which she well remembered . 
They proceeded at this rate for some little distance , and were just approaching a point where the road branched , when Harry 's head sank upon Mabel 's shoulder , and she perceived that he had fallen asleep . 
Tremblingly she caught the reins as they dropped from his powerless hands , and suffering him to retain his recumbent posture , assumed for the first time and under the most painful circumstances , the responsible office that had thus devolved upon her . 
At this crisis , she heard the welcome sound of horses ' hoofs , and although in the darkness she could distinguish nothing with certainty , she soon became convinced that for her all danger was past . 
At every point of danger he kept perseveringly at the animal 's side , and more than once Mabel was conscious that he led her by the rein . 
As they rattled over the pavements of the principal thoroughfare , however , the sound of his horse 's feet in the rear gradually became more and more indistinct ; and Mabel , as she now realized her position more fully by the light of the street lamps , and attempted to rouse her sleeping brother , was almost tempted to believe that she herself had been under the influence of a strange , wild dream , and that their fancied outrider was merely an hallucination of the senses . 
It was no easy task to arouse Harry 's slumbering faculties , and even after they had reached their aunt 's door in safety , Mabel hesitated and feared to alight , lest he should prove incapable of guiding Mad Sallie to her stable at some distance down the street . 
It mattered not to Mabel that he had misunderstood and falsely interpreted her character . 
He had freely expressed , in her hearing , his unflattering opinion of herself , and of Harry he might almost believe the worst , and yet to both he had acted a Christian part . 
Mabel was not ungrateful for his kindness to the beauty and the belle , the general admiration of whom he did not profess to share , but it was not for this that she most fervently thanked and blessed him . 
It was for the benefit conferred on Harry , and through him , on her . 
It was because he alone of all the world had lent a willing and a helping hand to her sinking , sunken brother . 
Thus , the emotion which Bayard had awakened in Mabel was that of reverent gratitude , and was treasured in after years as a sacred memory . 
They had met , as it were , on one of the cross roads of life ; she dimly comprehended that on the morrow he was to depart into some unknown but distant exile ; she had parted from him without a word of acknowledgement or of thanks . 
Still she felt that for his service to virtue and humanity he would never go unrewarded , and on bended knee , in the silence of the night , she prayed that the God of Heaven might be with him in his wanderings , and that He might minister to him in his hour of need , who has said of the simplest deed of charity , `` Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren , ye have done it unto me . '' 
Mrs. Ridgwaywas very indignant the next morning , when , in reply to her pointed questions , Mabel assured her that she had not been introduced to the distinguished guest of Mrs. Bloodgood , whom she supposed , however , to be a Mr. Bayard , such an individual having been present . 
So much was the ambitious aunt piqued at this neglect , that she effectually restrained her curiosity , and forbore making any inquiries of her neighbors concerning the stranger , lest she should be compelled to acknowledge that her niece had not made his acquaintance ; and thus , much to Mabel 's relief , he was not again referred to in her presence . 
She was not one to be restrained by motives of delicacy from expressing , in Mabel 's hearing , her contempt and disgust at what she termed this scandalous exposure , nor did she hesitate to acquaint Harry , by the broadest hints and inuendoes , with her knowledge of the shameful events of the evening , which she declared to be common talk , and against which she inveighed as reflecting not only upon the delinquent , but upon all who had the misfortune to be connected with him . 
Whatever indifference Harry might feel or feign at these home thrusts and sarcasms with which he was constantly assail & edot ;d , they were the cause of the most poignant suffering to Mabel , and the more so as she plainly saw that although apparently listened to by Harry in dogged unconcern , they coperated with other circumstances in angering and driving him to desperation . 
Aunt Sabiah would anxiously exclaim , when creeping cautiously into Mabel 's room at the midnight hour , she would find the faithful sister watching at the window for her brother 's return . 
But Mabel would gently shake her head in reply to her aunt 's expostulations , and say , `` O no , aunt ; I am not tired . 
`` He 'll come soon , I think , '' and with a few persuasive words , Sabiah would be coaxed back to bed , and Mabel would persist in her lonely vigils . 
Thus , it was only by the most unwearied watchfulness that Mabel could ensure her brother 's ready admittance ; and who shall tell how often the wanderer was beguiled back by the certainty that , come at what hour he might , whether of the night or day , the same gentle voice which had lamented his departure , would greet him at his return , and the same sweet face which had anxiously watched him as he went , would welcome him with a smile , mournful , perhaps , but always kind ? 
All the fatigues and dissipations of the previous winter had not so weighed upon Mabel 's frame and exhausted her strength , as did these prolonged and midnight vigils , when , with straining eye and ear , she thus waited and hoped and prayed . 
But though the color was each day fading from her cheek , and her step had lost its elasticity , she gained , in these lonely communings with God and her own heart , a power which is born of endurance , and a strength which comes only through suffering . 
With the world and its bewildering sounds shut out , and the page of duty open before her , she was patiently learning that great lesson of life which is the key to all the rest ; and in humble forgetfulness of self , and serene reliance on Heavenly aid , she was gradually divining that precious secret which had rendered Rosy 's little life a blessed ministry . 
`` Do n't be scared ; I guess he 'll come to , '' said a rough but kindly voice , as Mabel met , at the door , the benevolent farmer and his sturdy sons , when bearing in their heavy burden . 
exclaimed she , in a hollow whisper , as she fixed her eyes with a rigid stare upon her brother 's ghastly countenance . 
Then , seeing that Mabel stood like one turned to stone , watching his face as if to read in it her brother 's fate , he went on to state in earnest terms his belief that the young fellow was only stunned ; that he had spoken since they lifted him from the ground ; that he appeared to have no broken bones ; that he had been on a bit of spree and was pretty well corned ; -- no offence to the young woman -- he hoped she was n't a near relation of the poor dog whose horse , devil of a beast as it was , seemed to have the most sense of the two ; `` never you mind , '' added he , in a truly fatherly tone , patting with his rough hand the head of Mabel , who now leaned over Harry 's prostrate form , listening to his feeble but regular breathing -- `` he 's got a lesson that 's better 'n preachin ' , -- p ` r ` aps ` t 'll be the savin ' on him , soul and body . '' 
`` Bring him up stairs , '' ejaculated Mabel , in a low , imploring voice ; her subdued tones proving , even at this exciting moment , the force of that habit of watchful stillness with which , night after night , she had evaded her aunt Ridgway 's hearing . 
Her earliest impulse was , as we have said , to possess herself of every particular ; her next , to rid the house of strangers ; and her last thought seemed to be of the poor sufferer , over whom Mabel hung , in an agony of suspense , while Sabiah wrung her hands , groaned and anxiously asked herself -- `` how will sister Margaret put up with this new trouble ? '' 
Mabel , though the most afflicted , was the only one of the household who had the presence of mind to send for a physician or attempt to apply restoratives ; and her simple efforts , unavailing as they were , served to calm her mind and render her capable of affording that assistance which the medical man required on his arrival . 
While Sabiah gave up to the despair which had taken possession of her , and while Mrs. Ridgway examined her parlor carpet to discover whether it had been stepped on by dirty feet , and looked into the kitchen cupboards to make sure that no stragglers had taken advantage of the confusion to conceal themselves there , Mabel held the lamp for the doctor , furnished him with bandages and other necessary articles , replied to all his questions , and received at last the comforting assurance that , except some severe bruises and a slight cut on the back of the head , there was no perceptible injury , and that nothing serious need be apprehended , unless fever supervened . 
she anxiously asked . 
Now followed days and weeks of continued nursing , anxiety , and suspense , during which Mabel was the constant and unwearied attendant at the bedside of her brother . 
From Mabel 's hand only would he receive the cooling draught , and to her alone was he gentle and submissive . 
The wild words of delirium would die upon his lips as his eye met her loving glance , and his excited gestures would often give place to quiet and repose when he felt the pressure of her soft hand on his burning temples . 
Sometimes , as she sat patiently by his side through the long watches of the night , he would reveal to her in measured whispers the confession of his past folly , extravagance , and dissipation ; gazing into her face meanwhile with a holy awe , as if he believed her some angel messenger sent thither to gather up the burdensome secrets which lay upon his conscience . 
A less excited imagination , indeed , might almost have mistaken her for an apparition , as , clothed in a long white wrapper , and becoming each day more pale and worn , she moved noiselessly about the darkened chamber , anticipating the sufferer 's slightest want , and patiently soothing his restlessness . 
Her aunt Margaret , exasperated by the abuse with which Harry assailed her , washed her hands , as she said , of all responsibility in regard to him , and both by her own indignant and unaccommodating spirit , and by the strict orders which she gave her servants , contrived to double Mabel 's cares and anxieties , and impress upon her a most painful sense of the difficulties which sickness made in a household . 
Poor Sabiah , divided between love for Mabel and dread of her sister 's anger , hovered stealthily in the vicinity of Harry 's room , haunted the staircase and passage-way , and patiently strove to relieve her niece 's weariness ; but in her perturbed state of feeling , she effected but little in Mabel 's favor , and brought down on her own head a torrent of reproaches from Mrs. Ridgway , who , having no other hearer , took every opportunity of expressing to Sabiah a piece of her mind , and declaring that she had no idea of being imposed upon by her relations . 
But , although Mabel 's task was at once solitary and trying , it had its alleviations . 
It was far better to see Harry lying there in his helplessness , than to picture him amid scenes of folly and vice ; and in the gentle ministries of affection her own bruised and wounded spirit found a healing balm , while in the hearts of both , a silent influence was at work which hallowed those lonely hours , and made that quiet chamber the nursery of blessed and immortal fruits . 
It was about three weeks after the accident , and at the dim hour of twilight , when Mabel , believing her brother to have fallen asleep , threw herself on her knees beside him , and remained awhile lost in meditation and prayer . 
It had been to her a day of no ordinary suspense . 
The doctor pronounced his patient to be nearly free from fever , declared that the crisis was past , and gave her encouragement that he would soon be well . 
This assurance had , however , failed to satisfy her . 
Still she felt that there was something about him unnatural and strange . 
Since he ceased his incoherent ravings , he had not been heard to utter a syllable ; and although she was conscious that he watched her continually , he made no reply to her gentle inquiries , and , when she approached him , turned away his head , closed his eyes , and remained in one position for hours . 
did he cherish bitter thoughts toward her ? 
Exhausted by harrowing doubts and fears , she had rested a long time with her face shrouded in the bed clothes , and her soul laid bare to the all-seeing Father , when a hand was gently laid upon her head , and a faint , broken voice , murmured , `` Mabel . '' 
She looked hastily up , and met the earnest , tearful gaze of Harry , fixed full and eagerly upon her . 
The tender glance , and penitent tones of the chastened spirit were not to be mistaken ; he stretched out both his feeble arms , and , with a cry of joy , she fell upon his bosom , and they wept together . 
In that moment of the heart 's recognition , that outpouring of mutual confidence and restored affection , Mabel felt herself repaid for every trial , every sacrifice , every suffering . 
She had watched , and waited , and hoped , and prayed . 
In spite of weariness , alienation , disgrace , and sin , led by patience , fortitude , and holy love , she had sought and found her brother . 
Perhaps you will feel able to look them over to-day , '' said Mabel , and she put a little bundle of papers into her brother 's hand and hastily left the room . 
During the hour that Mabel purposely continued absent from the room , Harry sat studying these written records of his own disgrace , anxiously calculating the extent of his creditors ' demands , and revolving with still deeper bitterness the far heavier account which lay upon his conscience . 
When she at length returned , he was systematically filing the bills and noting the sum of each on a slip of paper . 
`` Mabel , '' said he , looking up as she entered , `` will you write a note for me to young Bloodgood ? 
Mabel did as she was requested , and Charlie responded to the summons by presenting himself at an early hour . 
Harry , who had not yet been below stairs , received him in his own room ; and so earnest and prolonged was the conversation between them , that Mabel , as she sat in the adjoining chamber , became fearful that her brother would be over-fatigued , and listened impatiently for the visitor 's departure . 
Later in the evening , when Mabel was sitting beside her brother and there had been a short silence between them , Harry exclaimed in a tone of deep and mournful feeling , `` Mabel , do you believe in such a thing as repentance ? '' 
`` O Harry , '' she promptly replied , `` what hope would there be for any of us , if we were cut off from that blessed refuge ? '' 
`` Do not doubt it for a moment , dear Harry , '' replied Mabel , in a tone of affectionate encouragement . 
she continued , her voice half choked with sobs and her face hid upon his shoulder , `` I know , for I have felt it . 
responded Harry , fondly caressing her , for she was striving in vain to repress her tears ; `` dear child ! 
`` You have been a faithful sister to me , Mabel , '' said Harry . 
What a confiding look he gave her while he spoke the last words -- proving by it how fully he realized that she was the staff on which he leaned . 
She made no reply , and he went on . 
Mabel clung to him the closer , but was silent . 
Thank Heaven , Mabel , you had the discernment and the strength of mind which are needed to understand and cope with such a man . '' 
`` O Harry , '' exclaimed Mabel , making an effort to speak , only as she felt herself called upon to disclaim this tribute of praise , `` I am not the strong-minded girl you think me . 
The tone of her voice betrayed her ; it told of misplaced affection , disappointed trust , and weariness of spirit . 
Harry put his arm around her , drew her face close to his , and whispered , `` You gave him up for my sake ? '' 
`` I could not find it in my heart to leave you alone , Harry , '' was her simple answer . 
`` Bless your loving heart , Mabel , '' responded he , kissing her tenderly ; `` Dudley and I are alike unworthy of it . '' 
This conversation , serving as it did to throw new light upon the cold and artificial character of Dudley , had at the same time the effect of sensibly weakening the hold which he still had upon Mabel 's interest and imagination . 
Conscious as she was of his duplicity towards herself , she was still more deeply shocked as she contemplated the faithlessness of his once boasted friendship for Harry , and she henceforth began to realize that in freeing herself from the influence of this selfish and worldly-wise man , she had secured her own no less than her brother 's welfare . 
It was one morning towards the end of August when Harry , who had now wholly recovered , entered his aunt Ridgway 's sitting-room with a New York paper in his hand , and glancing over the items of intelligence , read them aloud for the benefit of his aunt Sabiah and Mabel , who were seated there . 
said Mabel . 
cried Mabel in alarm . 
Father '' -- `` Father is safe , '' said Harry , at once relieving her fears , -- `` but Mr. Leroy '' -- `` Is killed ? '' 
gasped Mabel , with a countenance full of dread , while Sabiah laid down her work and stared at Harry with strained and horror-stricken features . 
Harry answered by covering his face with one hand and passing Mabel the paper , with his thumb on the following paragraph : -- `` We regret to learn that our esteemed fellow-citizen , Alexander Leroy , Esq. , was among the victims of this fatal catastrophe . 
Mabel ran her eye hastily over this account , and , as she read the partial confirmation of her fear , uttered a low cry , and handed the paper to her Aunt Sabiah . 
Thanksgiving for her father 's deliverance was mingled in Mabel 's mind with horror and grief at the sudden death of Mr. Leroy ; and in spite of her sister 's cold-hearted frivolity , she shuddered as she thought of the heavy blow which awaited , if it had not already reached , her . 
Perhaps Harry experienced the same train of thought , for he at length broke the silence by the abrupt inquiry , `` Mabel , where is Louise ? '' 
`` I do not know , '' replied Mabel ; `` I wish I did , so that I might go to her . '' 
`` Yes , do , Harry , '' replied Mabel eagerly ; `` he may be more hurt than we suppose ; at all events , he will need you . 
Mrs. Ridgway at this moment entered the room , and seeing the unusual agitation which was written in every countenance exclaimed with her wonted abruptness , `` Well , what 's to pay here ? 
No one , not even Sabiah , felt disposed at this moment to echo Mrs. Ridgway 's remark , while the roughness of her words and manner grated so painfully upon Mabel 's overcharged feelings , and she hastened to her own room to give vent to the emotions which she could no longer control . 
An hour or two afterwards she was joined by Harry . 
Mabel could not but perceive , even at this agitating season , that he seemed inspired with new energy , by the sudden necessity for exerting himself in other 's behalf ; nor could she help hoping , that in the breaking up of evil associations , and the escape from the scene of his recent mortification , he would gain new strength for carrying out his earnest and manly purpose of reformation . 
There was but little remaining , however , and he was obliged to beg assistance from Mabel 's purse , to furnish him with funds for the journey . 
Proud of the promptness with which he had rendered justice to his creditors , and feeling this expedition to be one in which they had a common interest , Mabel would gladly have transferred to him every cent of her ample supply of pocket money . 
But he would receive only what his actual expenses demanded , forcing back the rest into her hand , and saying , `` You forget how much you may need it yourself . '' 
It had been agreed that Mabel should write to Louise at both the points where a letter might possibly reach her , and that , until she had some certain knowledge of her sister 's plans , she should remain at L. , to which place Harry 's letters should be directed , whenever he had anything to communicate . 
Two days after her brother 's departure , Mabel 's suspense was to some degree relieved by a few hasty lines from her father , dated from a Western post-town , and simply confirming the fact of Mr. Leroy 's death , and his own safety . 
She expected to return to New York in the course of a week or two ; should be glad to have Mabel meet her there , and would write again to let her know when she should leave the sea-side . 
The next ten days were weary ones to Mabel . 
She seemed to be oppressed by a fever of the spirits , and to be weighed down by some haunting fear . 
She found it impossible to rally her cheerfulness notwithstanding Mrs. Ridgway 's declaration that it was nonsense to pretend she was so much overcome by the death of Mr. Leroy , who could have been little more than a stranger to her . 
The violence of the shock she had received , a not unreasonable anxiety concerning her father , and a painful sense of the impropriety of her sister 's situation at a public watering-place , all acting as they did on a system weakened by protracted labors in a sick-room , might well account for this seemingly unnatural depression . 
But so heavy was the cloud which hung over her mind during this interval , that Mabel was afterwards tempted to believe it a foreshadowing of the calamities about to ensue . 
In her eagerness to learn the contents of the former , Mabel threw the latter aside , while she perused her brother 's communication . 
It inspires me with new energy , and gives me strength to believe that with God 's help I may yet live to some worthy purpose , and that my darling sister may never again have cause to weep at the disgrace of her brother , It is doubtful how long Mabel might have sat pondering the contents of Harry 's letter , and especially its final clause , had not her aunt Ridgway , as she crossed the room , observed the other document laying in her niece 's lap , and exclaimed , `` What a queer looking letter ! 
Missent twice , '' added she , as she took it up and surveyed it with those keen eyes which had never yet required spectacles . 
Mabel 's curiosity being thus rawakened , she tore open the letter . 
With a trembling heart , but maintaining , nevertheless , that self-command and energy with which a strong mind braces itself to meet every emergency , Mabel at once prepared to obey this trying summons . 
There was no time to be lost , for she might already be too late to render any assistance to poor Louise ; and her resolution to depart immediately , was equally unshaken by her aunt Margaret 's inveighing against the solitary journey , as being the height of impropriety , and her aunt Sabiah 's tearfully remonstrating against the exposure to a disease which she felt sure was something contagious . 
Mrs. Ridgway , who , if she agreed with Sabiah on no other point , shared all her prejudices against Louise , and felt for her neither affection nor sympathy , took more than one opportunity of protesting that this hot-headed proceeding on Mabel 's part was entered on with her entire disapprobation , and that she never again would undertake the responsibility of having young people in her house . 
As this expression of her resolution was still further enforced by the energetic orders which she that evening gave her servants , in Mabel 's hearing , to take up the carpets the next day , and otherwise prepare to renovate the rooms which had been occupied by herself and Harry , Mabel plainly understood that she had nothing further to expect from her aunt 's hospitality ; and when , therefore , she drove from the door , in the dim morning light , it was with the full consciousness that she was bidding the town of L. a final adieu . 
It was the principal season for Southern and Western travel ; the British mail steamer had come to her dock that morning ; the coaches were just driving up from the Eastern railroad , and porters , waiters , and other officials were clattering over the pavement and jostling each other in the passages . 
`` Let me go , let me go , '' cried the boy , struggling lustily to escape ; `` my aunt Mabel has come , -- I see my auntie ; let me go , I say . '' 
`` Do n't keep the boy from his auntie , '' exclaimed one or two of the spectators , at the same time turning to give a broad stare at Mabel , who had been observed by Murray the moment she entered the hotel , but whose face was hid as she now stooped to embrace the eager child . 
The light laugh and the meaning whisper which succeeded , gave place to respectful silence , however , as Mabel glanced around with grave and dignified wonder , and then , with the boy still clinging to her neck , hastened up the staircase . 
Alick did not advance to meet her as she approached ; he even tried to hide his face ; but when she took his forehead between her hands and tenderly kissed him , questioning him , meanwhile , with her earnest look , he uttered a smothered cry , and , grasping her by the dress , followed , sobbing . 
`` Take me to my mamma , Aunt Mabel , '' cried Murray , vehemently ; `` they wo n't let me see my pretty mamma . '' 
Not daring to breathe to the children the question which trembled on her lips , Mabel hurried on in the direction of the rooms her sister had been wont to occupy , and , as she turned a corner , encountered Lydia Hope , who , hearing Murray 's voice , had hastened to meet and quiet him . 
In the dim light , she did not recognize Mabel , until the latter caught her by the hand and said , in a low , unnatural voice , `` Lydia , how is Mrs. Leroy ? 
asked Mabel , repeating her inquiry , as she observed that Lydia evaded a direct reply . 
`` Stop , Murray ; stop , darling , '' exclaimed Mabel , intercepting and staying him in his progress . 
Stay with them , Lydia , and coax them down for a few minutes , if you can , '' she added , in an under tone . 
Though believing that she had armed herself against the worst , Mabel felt all her powers paralyzed with horror , as entering the chamber , unwarned and unannounced , she beheld the face and form of her who , but a few weeks before , had graced the dance and been the ornament of the ball-room . 
Her beautiful wavy hair was cut short to her temples , the once laughing eye was sunken , fixed and glassy , a deep red spot mounted in each hollow cheek , while a dark line around the mouth gave added ghastliness to the countenance . 
With form bent forward , and eyes dilated with sudden fear and dread , Mabel stood for a moment unobserved , just within the doorway , taking in at a glance the whole agonizing scene ; then a sudden faintness seized her , a film overspread her sight , her heart seemed to cease its beating , and she sank upon the floor . 
They carried her into the next room , where she was speedily restored to consciousness , and having drank a cup of tea -LRB- for she had fasted since morning -RRB- , she was enabled to overcome her temporary weakness , and assume a composure which , with heroic effort , she succeeded in maintaining to the end . 
Mabel thought a moment , then shook her head . 
Among her wide circle of acquaintances there were none whose presence could sustain her at such a moment ; and , looking gratefully at Mrs. Hope and Lydia , she answered -- `` No one ; I have no better friends than these . '' 
`` Thank you ; that is all the assistance I require , '' said Mabel , and the medical man bowed and left her . 
She went and lay down on the foot of the children 's bed , -- not to sleep , but to be still and watch the peaceful slumber to which she herself had soothed them . 
She was there when they awoke , and when , amid their morning caresses , they questioned her concerning their mother , she gently told them the truth . 
Mabel was soon obliged to leave them , being summoned to meet the individual whom the doctor had sent to her assistance . 
She listened calmly and patiently while , taking the matter into his own hands , he informed her that he needed no directions ; he understood the circumstances perfectly , and knew what the occasion demanded ; -- what would be expected from Mrs. Leroy 's position in society , -- and should see that the whole ceremony was conducted with taste and elegance . 
It was a sad thing , he added , that Mr. Leroy should have been taken off so suddenly , and left his affairs insolvent too -- Mabel here gave a slight start of surprise ; she need not fear , however , that he should regard this circumstance in his arrangements , for he had faith to believe , in spite of reports to the contrary , that her respected father was not so deeply involved but that he would retrieve himself , and be happy to meet every demand . 
`` The only wishes I have in this matter , '' said Mabel , with difficulty concealing the alarm and embarrassment excited by these inuendoes , `` are , that my sister 's funeral should be conducted as simply as possible , and should take place from my father 's house . '' 
She was answered by a look of utter astonishment , and the abrupt words , `` Is it possible , Miss Vaughan , that you are ignorant of the sale which took place last week ; your father 's estate was put up at auction , and knocked off at considerably less than its value , I should judge . '' 
asked Mabel . 
It is very unfortunate , to be sure , '' continued he , in a tone of compassion , but studying her face meanwhile with vulgar curiosity ; -- `` these little knick-knackeries that one naturally sets by , are the very things that give a certain style to an establishment , and our rich upstarts that snap at such a wholesale chance would not part with one of them -- no , not if they had come down from your great-great-grandfather . '' 
He would have declaimed still further on the subject , but Mabel , shocked at the unexpected revelations thus made through a stranger , unwilling to accept condolence from such a quarter , and only anxious to terminate the conversation , interrupted him before he had time to proceed . 
`` I have been in the country , '' said she , with an air of reserve , `` and had not become aware of these particulars ; they are of no consequence at present . 
If the house has been disposed of , as you say , the funeral will , of course , take place from here ; '' and , leaving to him the furtherance of all other arrangements , she hastened from the apartment . 
In the hall , she met a porter with a trunk upon his shoulder , and the next instant encountered a gentleman , who was just vacating a neighboring room , and who , coming hurriedly out with a cloak over his arm , had nearly run against her in the passage . 
He stepped politely aside to let her pass , and commenced a graceful apology , but checked himself with ill-disguised embarrassment ; and for once , the courtly and accomplished Dudley -LRB- for he it was -RRB- , stood humbled and awed in the presence of the young and unsophisticated girl . 
Not that Mabel , in this moment of mutual recognition , made any assumption of arrogance or disdain , or that indifference had already succeeded to her first romantic preference ; but sorrow has a dignity all its own , and great calamities calmly met , and solemn duties bravely done , set a seal upon the countenance which may well make the selfish and the worldly tremble . 
Thus , while she returned his awkward salutation with forced but serene composure , and the blood , which rushed wildly to her heart , never tinged the marble pallor of her cheek , the self-convicted man of the world shrank from her glance as if it had power to penetrate to the depths of his cowardly soul , and felt himself abased by the consciousness that he was detected in the very act of wilfully forsaking , in her hour of need , one whom he had once professed to love ; for Dudley had arrived the previous night , had learned , in common with the rest of the household , the sad events of the last few hours , and was seeking , by an abrupt flight , to excuse himself from any call upon his sympathy or aid . 
Mabel had the superiority and she maintained it ; and when , after a bow of feigned solemnity in deference to her bereavement , and a gesture of imperative haste as an apology for his brevity , he kept on his way with a downcast eye , which had ventured to meet hers for an instant only , she looked after him less in anger , less in pride , and less in wounded affection , than with the generous compassion which virtue must ever feel for meanness and duplicity . 
Utterly exhausted in heart and mind , Mabel had not the strength to resist the persuasions of her kind friend ; so she ate without appetite a few morsels of food , and permitted herself to be coaxed into putting on a wrapper and lying down in a darkened room . 
How long she thus lay quiet and undisturbed she scarcely knew , for although slumber never once visited her senses , thought was sharpened to such intensity as to forbid her taking note of time ; and so unconscious was she of all that was passing around , that she gave a start of surprise when , after the lapse of some hours , she opened her eyes and saw the good Mrs. Hope , who believing her to be asleep , was patiently watching beside her . 
`` Mrs. Hope , '' said Mabel , speaking with calm decision , but at the same time looking fixedly in the face of the widow , as if to judge of the effect of her announcement , `` I intend to take the boys and go out West to my father . '' 
`` I have been thinking it over , '' continued Mabel , `` and have come to the conclusion it is the best thing I can do . '' 
`` Yes , it is a long journey , '' said Mabel , rising from the bed as she spoke , with a countenance and manner which were suggestive of the fresh energy inspired by the greatness of the enterprise , `` but I am not afraid , Mrs. Hope . 
`` He does not , of course , know how I am situated , '' said Mabel , `` and I can not be sure what he would think best ; so I am obliged to judge for myself . 
We have no longer a home in New York ; I can not take the children to my aunt Ridgway 's , even if I felt at liberty to go back there myself ; I can not stay here or anywhere else in the city ; besides , '' continued she , as if bringing forward the strongest point in her argument , `` my father needs me -- I am sure of it . 
She had come in unperceived , and Mabel could not but observe the earnestness of her inquiry . 
Mrs. Hope hesitated , and Mabel , perceiving that she wished to make some suggestion but was waiting for encouragement , said , with a faint attempt at a smile , `` What is it , Mrs. Hope ? 
`` Well , Lydia , '' said Mabel , `` and what of this friend ? '' 
Lydia did not look round nor answer ; the tips of her ears were very red , and she pretended to be exceedingly busy -- so her mother saved her the necessity of replying . 
Mabel now understood that these thoughtful friends had foreseen the probability of her projecting this long and trying journey , and were anxious to provide her with a trusty attendant and escort . 
So far from being offended at the proposition , she thanked them cordially for their considerate kindness , and reserving any decision in the matter , expressed a wish to see the young man , who , she was told , would be at the hotel that evening . 
Accordingly , when Owen Dowst presented himself , and Mabel recognized in him the ruddy teamster who had been Rose 's friend , she at once decided in her own mind to accept his protection , which was offered with a respectful civility accompanied by manly independence . 
As the point to which he was bound was within one day 's journey of Mr. Vaughan 's estate , and as he intended to accomplish the distance in the shortest possible time by travelling day and night , his purpose and route were found to correspond wholly with Mabel 's ; and it was agreed that , on the following day but one , she and the children should proceed to Albany , and thence on their westward trip , under the guardianship of their honest though unpretending escort . 
`` Well , now that it 's all settled , and it seems probable you 'll get there safe , '' said Mrs. Hope , in a confidential tone to Mabel when she was alone with her that night . 
said Mabel ; `` the people in the house are civil , I believe . '' 
Mabel shuddered as she thought of the trial that must have been so bitter to her vain and worldly sister , and wept as she meditated on its fearful consequences . 
She had no fear of disrespect herself , but she could well imagine the nature of the retaliation which had been visited on Mrs. Leroy , whose supercilious manners , barely tolerated in her days of prosperity , would have been sure to excite ridicule and contempt for her in her fallen fortunes . 
In spite of Mabel 's directions to the contrary , there was yet one more scene of worldly show , in which the remains of the once brilliant Mrs. Leroy were destined to form a part . 
Due notice had been given of the time and place of the solemnities ; but , except by Mabel , the children , Mrs. Hope and Lydia , whose feelings were sincerely affected , and a few of the residents and servants of the hotel , who came out of curiosity , the services were unattended . 
Still , except that Mabel wore no mourning , which she had neither the time nor the means to procure , there was no omission of any of the custom ary symbols of grief , and every thing was conducted on a scale of profuse magnificence . 
The carriages , nearly all of which were empty , filed off one by one , -- a melancholy pageant -- a seeming mockery of her whose whole life had been a pageant -- and , in an expensive tomb , in the heart of the noisy city , the strange officials , each wearing a solemn badge , laid the form of her who was destined to be speedily unmissed and forgotten in the very scene of her boasted triumphs . 
It was the dim hour of twilight , and Mabel , who had a few hours before returned from paying the last tribute of respect and affection to her sister , was seated , with Murray on her knee , and one arm round the waist of the other orphan boy . 
A note had just been handed to her , written on rose-colored paper , and expressing in high-flown terms the regret of Mrs. Vannecker that she could not come to her aid . 
Mabel was placing the note in her pocket , with a long sigh , when there was an abrupt knock at the door . 
She started up , violently agitated , as if the venerable form before her had been that of a spectre ; for , as she recognized the aged man , known to us as Father Noah , there flashed across her the remembrance that Louise had once prophesied this visit , and that , in the same breath , she had lightly and confidently sung the equally prophetic words , `` But , oh , I shall not be there . '' 
We may not question the mercy of an infinite Providence ; but the thrill which shot through Mabel 's heart at the moment , proved the strength of her conviction , that her poor sister had not , while on earth , earned a title to a heavenly birthright . 
The good clergyman saw her agitation ; but in no degree attributing it to his own presence , took her hand gently and sat down beside her . 
`` I am , '' said Mabel , solemnly . 
`` Your kindness helps me , '' sobbed Mabel , `` and I would gladly have a place in your prayers . '' 
Mabel sunk upon her knees , and the children instinctively followed her example , while the old man asked a blessing on them . 
It betrayed a perfect knowledge of the sorrows and the wants of the little group ; and as it commended them to the mercy of Heaven , and besought for her , who was to be the guide of youth , the strength which cometh from God only , Mabel felt herself sanctified for the work that was given her to do , and ready to go out into the wilderness , with a brave heart , at the commandment of the Lord . 
She rose up , therefore , composed and strengthened ; and , as the venerable man sat down , drew the children to his knee , and expressed the simple interest which he had long cherished in Mabel 's welfare , she felt her heart opened towards him , and talked freely of her coming experience and its possible duties and trials . 
He gave her much wise counsel , expressed for her much tender sympathy , and did not forget to impress upon the children , and especially upon Alick , who was listening to him with respectful attention , the obligation which rested upon them to behave , as he said , like little men , and be to her a comfort rather than a care . 
Thus , in the hour of her spirit 's need , when those who had walked with her in high places shrank from the gentle ministries which affliction craves , this faithful servant of the poor had learned the story of Mabel 's grief from the lips of her humble friends , and had come to soothe her with his sympathy and fortify her with his prayers ; while , actuated by a like spirit of Christian love , the family whom Louise had injured , and the venerable man whom she had despised , had vied with each other in offices of love to herself and her orphan children . 
`` Your visit has done me good , sir , '' said Mabel , taking both his hands , as he rose to go ; `` I thank you for it with all my heart . 
The landlord of the hotel had been summoned , and on Mabel 's expressing her regret that her funds were only sufficient for her present wants , had cordially assured her of his perfect readiness to wait Mr. Vaughan 's convenience for the settlement of his accounts , and had himself accompanied her to the steamboat . 
At length they took their places , Mabel and the boys in the centre of the deck , where they were protected by an ample awning , and Owen modestly choosing a seat at the stern of the boat , where , without intrusion , he could keep the little party in sight . 
The bell rang and they moved off ; -- Jack waved his cap , Mrs. Hope cried out `` Good-bye , '' and Lydia timidly threw a kiss , -- not at Mabel , however , or the boys , but in response to one from the stern of the vessel , where Owen stood , leaning over the railing , and looking back with a tear in his honest eye . 
Here all Mabel 's powers were called into action , for the diversion and entertainment of Murray , whose restlessness could ill brook the restraint to which he was subjected in the ladies ' saloon , and who continually threatened to stray beyond its limits . 
While watching the good-natured youth , as he cut an apple into a fanciful shape , or whittled a figure from a bit of wood , the child was completely happy , and Mabel was freed from all anxiety concerning him . 
These ingenious and friendly devices , however , though not lost upon Alick , had no power to win him from his position beside Mabel , where , with the basket of provisions at his feet , and his arm passed through the handle of the carpet bag , he sat upright and firm as a sentinel at his post . 
But although the gentle motion of the boat , the comparative privacy of the ladies ' cabin , and the respectful devotion of her attendant , contrived to render this first day 's experience satisfactory to Mabel and soothing to her anxieties , the interval between the arrival of the party in Albany , and their departure in the night-train for Buffalo , was replete with those incidents which constitute the trials of the traveller , and render journeying an uncertain and hazardous experiment . 
The boat was late at her wharf ; there was some delay and difficulty in the distribution of baggage ; noise and confusion prevailed in every direction , and before Owen could collect his own boxes and Mabel 's trunks , the carriages , loaded with passengers for the cars , had all driven off . 
Mabel 's countenance betrayed her agitation and alarm , Alick looked piteously from one rough face to another , and Murray , dimly comprehending that something was the matter , as usual began to cry . 
`` Look here -- I say , '' cried Owen , catching a burly , roundfaced fellow by the button , and glancing significantly towards Mabel , `` do n't disappoint that lady now , -- it 's too bad , -- her folks were hurt , -- one on 'em killed by that bad accident last week , -- she 's a goin ' out there to her father , -- do n't you be the means of her losin ' the train . '' 
Give a hand , boy , -- her father '' -LRB- in his turn , nodding at Mabel , -RRB- `` was killed on the cars last week . 
Look here , you , '' speaking to a gaily dressed fop inside , who , seeing his valise unceremoniously thrown on to the sidewalk , was already preparing to alight ; `` this gentleman , '' -LRB- waving his hand towards Sam -RRB- `` will take you up to the hotel ; I 'm bound to get these tother folks down to the Buffalo cars ; in with you , Bub , '' and he lifted Alick , basket , carpet-bag and all , into the carriage ; Mabel and Murray followed ; Owen sprung up outside , and they were off . 
During the ten minutes that they were hurrying and rattling over the pavements , Mabel endeavored in vain to quiet her disturbed feelings , and strove , with equal want of success , to soothe the weeping Murray , while Alick silently watched his aunt 's countenance , as if it were the dial-plate of destiny . 
They were barely in season after all ; there was just time for the luggage to be thrown hastily on board , and the last bell was sounding as Owen entered a car , with Murray in his arms , followed by Mabel and Alick , almost breathless with the haste they had made , and carrying between them the basket and travelling bag , which Alick could not transport alone , but which the sturdy boy was unwilling to relinquish . 
This little incident served at once to excite Mabel 's anxieties for the future , and to impress her with a sense of her dependence on Owen . 
She felt sick at heart , as imagination conjured up the possible disasters and delays which might ensue before the termination of the journey , and , as the darkness of the night came on , and a thick gloom settled over every object , an undefined dread took possession of her ; and when Murray exclaimed with convulsive sobbing , `` Auntie , Murray is tired , -- Murray ca n't ride all night , '' she was tempted to fold the child to her bosom , and weep with him over their multiplied misfortunes . 
Her weakness was rebuked , however , by the confiding tone in which Alick responded to his brother 's complaint , -- `` I ai n't tired , Murray , '' said he , -- `` I would n't mind going anywhere with Aunt Mabel . '' 
Two or three hours passed away , Alick , despite his efforts to the contrary , had fallen asleep , though still sitting as upright as a grenadier , and Mabel had once or twice forgotten her anxieties , and enjoyed a few moments ' repose , when a bright light shone in their faces , and suddenly awaking , they discovered that the train was stopping at a place of some importance , if one might judge by the bustle which pervaded the platform in front of the station . 
`` Take my purse , Owen , '' said Mabel , `` and pay for it , if you please . '' 
Mabel looked back with some anxiety , but supposing that he had entered a rear car and would soon make his way to them , she did not feel any positive alarm and was therefore wholly taken by surprise when a few moments after , the conductor , as he passed with his lantern in hand , held it up to her face and said inquiringly , `` Was n't that young fellow in the pilot-cloth coat with you , ma'am ? '' 
`` Yes , '' answered Mabel . 
exclaimed Mabel , repeating his words in astonishment and fright , while Alick groaned aloud and Murray set up a shrill and prolonged cry . 
asked Mabel , in a tone of mingled appeal and reproach . 
`` To-morrow , '' thought Mabel , `` but where shall we be by that time ? '' 
And at the same instant the remembrance flashed upon her that he was in possession of her purse , containing all the money she had in the world . 
was the involuntary exclamation which burst from her lips as , trembling with agitation , she started up impulsively , then in a despairing manner sank back into her seat . 
`` Oh , I do n't know , Alick , what we shall do , '' said Mabel , the self-command which she had hitherto maintained in the presence of the children forsaking her at this unforeseen crisis . 
`` So do I , '' answered Mabel , drawing both the children as closely to her as possible , and feeling , for the second time , rebuked by Alick 's child-like faith -- first in her , and now in a higher power . 
At the same instant , a voice proceeding from the seat directly behind them , addressed Mabel in a tone of gentle but earnest inquiry . 
`` Not my servant , except by free-will , ma'am , '' answered Mabel , her face as she turned being brought close to that of the person who was leaning forward to speak to her , but whose features were undistinguishable in the dim light . 
`` Yes , ma'am , it is not strange , '' said Mabel ; `` I do n't wonder at it , he was so kind to the boys and so civil to me . 
He was a good friend , and we depended upon him , and now , -- now -- '' Her voice choked ; she could not go on . 
The old lady -- for the stranger was advanced in years -- quietly rose , came forward , and taking the seat beside Mabel from which Alick had risen in the moment of excitement , said kindly , `` And do you need a friend now , my dear ? '' 
Mabel could not answer except by putting her hand into that of the old lady , who pressed it tenderly . 
said she , drawing Alick toward her , and gently soothing Murray with the words , `` Poor boy ! 
Their new friend uttered an exclamation of pity , and , grieved at the result of her natural inquiry , forbore all further questioning . 
you must both be tired , '' said she . 
And rising , she beckoned to a woman just behind them , and with her assistance proceeded to carry her purpose into execution . 
`` Do n't stir ; we will make them very comfortable , '' she added , as Mabel proposed to assist her . 
And taking advantage of some vacant seats opposite , she spread upon them her own and the woman 's surplus supply of shawls , and in a few moments the exhausted children were disposed of for the rest of the night . 
`` My child , you have seen trouble , I fear , '' said the benevolent lady , as , resuming her seat by Mabel , she passed one arm round the young girl 's waist , and drew her head upon her shoulder . 
Mabel had in some degree steeled herself against the hardships and trials which she might encounter , but this unexpected kindness wholly overpowered her ; the floodgates of her soul were opened , and her tears poured forth like rain . 
Her judicious comforter did not attempt to restrain her . 
She well knew the relief it sometimes is to weep , and without interrupting her by a word , suffered her feelings to have vent . 
`` Lie still , dear , '' said she , as Mabel , having at length become more composed , made a movement to sit upright . 
`` Oh , I can not sleep , '' said Mabel , `` I am too unhappy . '' 
`` I never gave up so before , '' said Mabel , `` and I know I ought not to now , but this seemed too much . '' 
`` He was very considerate and kind , '' said Mabel . 
Mabel named the town and county in the eastern part of Illinois , which were her destination . 
Mabel thanked her heartily in her own name and the children 's . 
`` Do not thank me , '' said her kind friend , `` the benefit will be mutual . 
`` Oh , I can not tell you the relief it will be , if you will only let me keep within sight of you , '' exclaimed Mabel , eagerly . 
Then , as she recalled the lady 's previous allusion to her being a stranger , she added , with simple candor , at the same time lifting her head , and speaking with great earnestness , `` But you are very good , ma'am , to feel confidence in me.It must seem strange to you that I should be travelling so far , with the charge of these children , and dependent myself upon a young man who is not of my own station in life . '' 
asked Mabel . 
Thus encouraged , Mabel suffered her head to drop once more upon the shoulder of the tall and strongly-framed , though venerable lady , and in the darkness of the night , and amid the hush which prevailed among the sleepers who were stretched around , she poured into her willing ear , in a low and broken voice , the story of her recent family bereavements , and the sufferings , responsibilities , and perplexities , which had ensued . 
So sweet , indeed , was this welcome assurance of protection and sympathy , that , at length , the tale being ended , and the aching heart , in some measure , relieved of its burden , tired nature asserted its claims , and a soft and refreshing sleep stole over Mabel 's senses . 
It was daylight when she awoke . 
The sun was streaming through the car ; most of the passengers were sitting bolt upright in their seats , their firm attitudes seeming to defy any one who should accuse them of having slept a wink on the journey ; and the whole scene was so different from that which had prevailed a few hours before , that Mabel could not for a moment realize where she was , or whether the events of the previous night had not all been a dream . 
There could be nothing imaginary , however , in the friendly shoulder on which her head was comfortably pillowed , nor could anything be more kind and cordial than the smile which reassured her , as starting up , she suddenly exclaimed , `` Why , how long I have lain here ! 
But Mabel did not seem to heed the kind inquiry . 
Her eyes were fixed earnestly on the face of her new friend , while a glow of pleasure radiated her features . 
There could be no mistaking that benevolent countenance , that dignified form , those silver curls peeping from the snowy fluting of the widow 's cap , above all , that cheering and animating smile ; and , snatching the hand of the good lady , Mabel pressed it to her lips , exclaiming , `` You are not a stranger after all ! 
`` My aunt , '' faltered Mabel , a new light dawning upon her in reference to the memorable visit , which had , as it proved , been so wholly misinterpreted . 
You see , '' added she , with her winning smile , `` we old-fashioned folks are always acquainted with the family tree ; however , I lived in your father 's native town some years ; I was an assistant teacher in the village academy , and your aunt was one of my pupils . '' 
said Mabel , with interest . 
`` She never knew of your visit , '' said Mabel , with a blush of mortification , `` she never had a chance to know . 
A shade of disappointment passed over Madam Percival 's countenance also , for a moment , then she exclaimed quickly , as if anxious to relieve Mabel 's evident regret , `` It was very natural , however . 
`` Yes , very , '' said Mabel , `` but she would have been so glad to see you . '' 
Mabel named the occasion . 
This reference to her own enjoyment , and that of her friends , led Mabel to speak in grateful terms of one of their number , the good clergyman , to whom she was so much indebted . 
`` We shall soon be in Buffalo , my dear , '' said Madam Percival at length , leaning forward and laying her hand on Mabel 's shoulder , to attract her attention . 
Mabel , thus suddenly roused from a sad and painful reverie , into which she had fallen , a train of thought superinduced no doubt by the disclosures and coincidences of the morning , started , turned , and said , in an abstracted manner , `` Yes , and what shall we do then ? '' 
`` Wherever you please , '' said Mabel . 
`` Never , ma'am , '' answered Mabel , with a slight tremulousness in her voice , at the mention of a spot she had once so yearned to visit , but which was now associated with many a bitter memory . 
`` I do n't know , '' said Mabel , hesitating . 
`` You can scarcely be expected to have any preference under the circumstances , my dear , '' said Madam Percival , laying her hand anxiously on Mabel 's flushed cheek , `` but I am convinced there could be no better prescription for you than the one I recommend . 
Besides , '' added she , with a persuasive smile and tone , which made it almost appear that she was begging , instead of conferring a favor , `` we old folks , who pride ourselves on our experience , love to try our favorite remedies ; so , if you leave the decision to me , we will keep on to Niagara , and risk the additional fatigue in consideration of the benefits we hope to derive from the effort . '' 
Comprehending at once the disinterestedness of this scheme to divert her troubled mind from the contemplation of its corrows , Mabel hastened to deprecate the idea of her aged friend 's incurring any unnecessary fatigue on her account ; but Madam Percival assured her that she never suffered from the effects of travelling , and that in the present case , the necessity for one day 's delay rendered the temptation to visit the Falls irresistible , apart from the satisfaction it would be to introduce her young friends to one of the grandest wonders of nature , in which , as Americans , they had all a common birthright . 
Atan early hour , the next morning , a pleasant voice was heard outside Mabel 's door , saying , softly , `` Are you awake , my dear ? '' 
and was answered by Mabel 's presenting herself , already dressed and equipped for going out . 
`` Ah , you are a girl after my own heart , '' said Madam Percival , drawing Mabel 's arm through hers . 
Thus speaking , Madam Percival crossed the road leading to the bridge , and Mabel proceeded alone . 
How tumultuous and how mingled was the rushing tide of thought which assailed her during that short , lonely walk ! 
How many of her childhood 's hopes , her girlish anticipations had centred around Niagara ! 
How fondly had she looked forward to this fulfilment of her early dreams ! 
How little had she foreseen the cruel chain of circumstances which had brought her to the spot at last , disappointed , forsaken , and bereaved . 
A moment more , and , in the stillness of the morning , for the sun had not yet risen , she found herself alone on the bridge , beneathw which flowed the angry torrent . 
Panting from exercise , breathless with her own agitating reflections , and dumb with astonishment and awe , she stood , with parted lips , gazing up that gigantic slope , down which , in wild and frantic speed , the waters were hastening to their fearful plunge . 
An instinctive dread took possession of Mabel 's mind , as , gazing long and fixedly at these witnesses to God 's power and majesty , she saw in them types of those recent events which , bearing down like a mighty flood and overwhelming her beneath a torrent of trouble , had left her to struggle helplessly with the current . 
`` All thy waves and thy billows have gone over me , great God , '' she exclaimed aloud , at length withdrawing her gaze from a scene whose sublime and solemn grandeur was , to the excited girl , almost lost in a nervous sense of terror . 
There was a pause ; then a long-drawn sigh escaped Mabel , and attracted the attention of Madam Percival , who had not until then perceived her . 
exclaimed she ; then seeing the despairing attitude and covered face of Mabel , and at once conjecturing that , in the weak state of her nervous system , she had been overcome by the scene , she sat down beside her and said , in a self-reproving tone , `` Ah ! 
`` It frightens me , '' said Mabel , with a shudder . 
and again a slight shudder passed over her frame . 
Mabel lifted her head quickly , as her attention was thus earnestly claimed , and above the watery abyss , which a few moments before had been so dark and fearful , a glorious rainbow danced and quivered in the beams of the newly-risen sun ; and , as the glittering spray caught and reflected the rays of light in new forms of radiance , another and another brilliant arch stretched its graceful curve across the foaming flood . 
A smile of joy flashed out from Mabel 's face , effecting in it a transformation scarcely less striking than that which had so suddenly been wrought in the face of nature ; she clasped her hands , and stood for some moments in a rapt and serene silence . 
`` I have realized it many times , '' said Mabel , eagerly ; `` I realize it now . '' 
`` I can not thank you enough for bringing me here , '' said Mabel ; -- `` it is a remembrance for a life-time . '' 
`` You mean the care of the children , '' said Mabel , observing that Madam Percival 's eye was fixed upon the boys , who were playing at a little distance ? '' 
A shade of earnest thought and holy resolution was stamped on Mabel 's attentive face , as , with her eyes intently fixed on the children , she listened to the solemn charge of her experienced and venerable friend . 
Madam Percival gazed into the earnest face of Mabel , and her heart warmed anew towards her , as she read in every expressive feature a hopeful prophecy for the future , -- a prophecy which after years saw gloriously fulfilled . 
All were refreshed and strengthened for continuing the journey ; and the joy of the children , and the relief and satisfaction of Mabel were complete , when , at the steamboat wharf in Buffalo , they met Owen , who , poor fellow , had suffered the most intense anxiety on their account , and who at once became a sharer in their gratitude to Madam Percival , as was evident from his clumsy but honest expression of thanks , and still more from his unwearied and deferential services to her during the remainder of the journey . 
Madam Percival was one who could appreciate the simplicity and worth of Mabel 's humble escort ; and before their travels together were at an end , he had learned to look upon this lady , as almost every one did who came under her influence , as a reliable friend . 
Thus all went on happily and harmoniously , and Mabel , with Madam Percival for her counsellor and friend , Owen as the devoted attendant of herself and the children , and Mrs. Patten , who shared all the interests of her beloved mistress , to minister to her wants , and relieve her of little cares , found her formidable journey drawing to a safe conclusion , and almost sighed as she thought how soon she must part from these valued and tried friends of her adversity . 
The children had gone to sleep in the cabin ; Mrs. Patten was watching beside them ; Owen , at the stern of the boat , was giving voluntary aid in the stowing of some freight , and Madam Percival and Mabel were seated on deck , holding the last of those pleasant and valuable conversations which they had enjoyed together . 
`` It excites all my enthusiasm , '' said Mabel . 
`` I am already accustoming myself , '' said Mabel , `` to look upon it as my future home , for such it may eventually become . '' 
`` If you were only to be near me , '' said Mabel , `` it would be such a comfort ; your counsel would be so precious . '' 
Mabel and the children took passage in the clumsy carriage in which they were to commence their last day 's journey ; Owen set out for another part of the country ; and Madam Percival , having seen her adopted charges on their way , proceeded to the house of a friend , where she was to await her son 's arrival in the city . 
It was a cold , rainy , and uncomfortable evening , when , with the horses weary and steaming , and the children exhausted with cold and fatigue , Mabel , almost hopeless of ever reaching their destination , which had seemed all day to recede as they advanced , at length heard from their driver the joyful words , `` That ` ere 's Mr. Vaughan 's house where you see the light over yonder . '' 
she exclaimed , encouragingly , to the poor weeping child , who , sadly feeling the want of Madam Percival 's shawls and Owen 's pilot cloth coat , was shivering with the cold , from which all Mabel 's care could ill protect him , and who , hungry , dissatisfied , and out of humor , had complained and cried bitterly for the last half hour . 
Mabel needed no second bidding ; she was only too glad to trust to her own feet , to which eagerness lent wings , and in an instant more , with Murray in her arms and Alick close beside her , she hastened in the direction of the light , opened the unlocked door of the house , and entered . 
She found herself in a dark passage , and was groping for the inner door , when it was suddenly thrown open ; and , with a cry of joy , she set Murray on the floor , and flung her arms around the neck of her astonished brother . 
Had it been the ghost of Mabel instead of Mabel herself , it could have created no greater surprise and consternation . 
Mr. Vaughan , who was sitting in an arm-chair by the fire , turned his head as Harry uttered her name , and seeing his daughter before him , became pale , tried twice to rise from his seat , then sank back as if seized by sudden giddiness , while a look of deep distress passed over his haggard features . 
`` Mabel here ! '' 
She had thrown herself on the floor beside him , and with both arms resting on his knee , was looking him earnestly in the face before he had finished speaking the words . 
`` Yes , father ; Mabel and the boys . '' 
`` Their mother , Mabel ? '' 
`` They have no mother in this world but me , father , '' answered Mabel , in a hollow whisper . 
Harry came up , untied Mabel 's bonnet , smoothed her hair with his hands , kissed her hastily , and walked to the other end of the room to hide his agitation . 
She rose and stood looking into the fire . 
`` Is she dead ? 
When did she die ? 
Mabel gave a simple outline of the facts . 
Mr. Vaughan held fast to the sides of his chair , as if needing support , and presently Harry came back , and watching Mabel 's countenance , listened also to the story . 
There was a second long silence , broken only by Murray 's cries , and then succeeded other questionings and other cares ; the weary young travellers -- their long , hard journey ; the trying experiences of Mabel ; the exposures and deprivations of the poor children ; their present necessities and wants -- all in turn demanded consideration , and were in turn discussed . 
Murray 's loud complaints of cold and hunger were promptly responded to by Harry , who piled on more wood and went to consult the larder , and , through his good housekeeping and Mabel 's ingenuity , arrangements were soon made by which the newlyarrived party could be comfortably accommodated for the night . 
`` How happened you to think of coming here , Mabel ? '' 
asked Mr. Vaughan , when , supper being concluded and the children gone to bed , she had quietly seated herself beside him , with the satisfied , contented air of one who having suffered much has found a place of repose at last . 
`` I did not know what else to do , father , '' was her simple answer . 
The same distressed look returned to his face which had marked it on the first announcement of her arrival ; he moved uneasily in his chair , glanced at the bare , plastered walls and meagre furniture of their only parlor , and then , gazing at her with mingled pride and pity , ejaculated mournfully , `` It is not a fit place for you , my child . 
Mabel , grieved at perceiving how deeply he felt the trial of seeing his beloved daughter reduced to such humble fortunes , made haste to assure him of her perfect satisfaction and joy in sharing his Western abode . 
He interrupted her , however , shook his head in a troubled , discontented manner , and glanced once more around the room , saying , `` Ah , well ! 
It seemed , indeed , as if his paternal grief at the death of Louise was secondary to this one absorbing regret ; and as if in contemplating the trials and mortifications to which his favorite child had been suddenly reduced , he had forgotten every other cause of sorrow ; for , when at last he took his candle to retire for the night , he laid his hand on Mabel 's head , and said in a consolatory tone , `` Never mind , my daughter ! 
`` I am afraid father is sorry I came , Harry , '' said Mabel , as the brother and sister were also about to separate . 
`` If he only cares on my account -- if you are sure of that , Harry , I am content , '' said Mabel . 
`` Dear Mabel , '' said Harry , looking at her tenderly , `` how much you have suffered -- how much you have been through since we parted ! '' 
`` We will not think of it now , '' said she , smiling through her tears . 
That his residence there would be otherwise than temporary , -- that Mabel would ever dream of joining him , and sharing his deprivations , -- still less than his grandchildren would be brought thither for protection and shelter , had never once entered the old man 's busy and overtasked brain ; and yet , by a train of circumstances , at once natural and strange , the remnant of his diminished family were united under the humble roof , where they seemed destined for an indefinite period to constitute a common household . 
The sphere into which Mabel was thus suddenly introduced was one which gave scope to every faculty , and taxed her powers to the utmost . 
But Mabel did not pause to contemplate them , and here lay her chief security from dejection or apathy . 
She was strong in youth and health ; with spirits which had retained their elasticity in spite of severe discipline , and a heart so imbued with earnest faith and Christian self-devotion that , in the cause of those she loved , no effort could be hopeless , and no labor burdensome . 
Thus she counted not up her toils , and brooded not upon her difficulties , but setting herself with cheerful alacrity to the work which lay nearest at hand , she performed it with ready zeal , and one by one , unconsciously to herself , the various offices which she filled assumed their due order and significance , and her daily life became a beautiful and a sacred mission . 
exclaimed she , in a lively tone , as she joined her brother in the kitchen the morning after her arrival , and found him engaged in his bachelor task of preparing breakfast . 
`` Alick , '' she cried to her little nephew , who was cowering over the fire , `` do you see that great heap of pine chips out by the wood pile ? 
and she lifted a cover , `` how beautifully you have broiled that chicken ! 
and she glanced at the empty coffee-pot . 
Mabel had placed the white bread , and sweet , fresh butter , upon the table -- a few new-laid eggs had been produced from the cupboard , and everything gave promise of a sumptuous meal . 
Alick pressed forward to see this novel pet , Harry laughed , and Mabel exclaimed , `` Why , Murray , what would the New York boys say , if they knew you had an opossum ? 
Go and take hold of grandfather 's hand , Alick , '' whispered she , `` and ask him to walk in to breakfast . '' 
was Mabel 's inward comment , as , an hour or two later , she made a careful inspection of some of the closets . 
she inquired aloud of her active and willing little assistant . 
But the same quick eye and hand which , a year before , had been so prompt in relieving the dull uniformity of a superb city mansion , knew how to reduce this bewildering chaos to harmony and order ; and , although Harry still persisted in playfully styling it a bivouac and an encampment , their dwelling soon assumed , under Mabel 's superintendence , all the essential characteristics of a home . 
Upon the unpacking of Mabel 's trunk , a treasure had come to light , which had awakened in her many a touching reminiscence and emotion , and which excited Alick to tears and Murray to an ecstasy of delight . 
It had been obvious , from the first moment of Mabel 's arrival , that nothing would so mortify and distress her father as to see her reduced to the performance of menial offices ; and this feeling , which his whole manner conveyed , was expressed almost immediately in the decisive words , `` Harry , we must look out at once for servants . 
Even if Mabel should only be here for a week or two , we must have female servants , if there are any such to be obtained , and make her as comfortable as possible . '' 
At length , however , a young and inexperienced girl , daughter of a recent settler in the vicinity , consented to enter Mabel 's service , and through the latter 's perseverance in training both herself and her hand-maiden , some degree of system was introduced into the kitchen department , and there was at least the show of a waiting woman in the establishment . 
The roll of charts , descriptive of his landed property , was usually spread out before him , upon the table , and when not actually engaged in consulting it , he would restlessly pace the room ; while , more than once , Mabel was startled by hearing his step in the night time , and , on hastily descending the stairs , discovered him , in night-cap and dressing-gown , poring over the engrossing maps , tracing out the course of the river , or the boundary line of his estates . 
`` I thought you might be ill , '' Mabel would perhaps remark ; and he in his turn would answer , a little impatiently , `` Ill ? 
Nor did Mabel 's high hopes suffer any diminution , nor her fears become in any degree excited , on his account , although his frequent and prolonged shooting excursions brought him into contact , not only with the reckless hunter and backwoodsman , but , also , with many a gay sporting-party from Canada and the Western cities , who were , at this season , finding recreation in the hunting grounds of the West . 
He invariably returned home laden with game , which was no trifling feature in their larder ; and , by his thoughtfulness for Mabel 's comfort , by his anxiety to lighten her cares in providing for the wants of the family , and by the exercise of a discretion and good judgment which had never before characterized him , he gave evidence of his growth in manly purpose and true generosity of heart . 
Mabel 's social deprivations might seem one of the most striking trials of her lot . 
But although her father and brother were much from home , and the neighborhood offered few advantages , she found more than enough in her present situation to compensate for all she had lost by the exchange of a crowded city for a life on the open prairie . 
The children were her constant companions . 
Alick could not long be contented out of her sight , and the chivalrous devotion which had marked his demeanor on their journey suffered no diminution at its termination . 
He was her invariable attendant and fellow laborer , and under her sunny influence the best traits of his character were rapidly developing ; while Murray , in the keen enjoyment of simple pleasures , was overcoming the false tastes and unreasonable temper which were due to flattery , and the injurious influences that hotel life is sure to exert upon a child . 
But there was still another source from which Mabel derived sweet and welcome companionship , learning in the exercise of a warm and tender friendship how much more precious is the intercourse with one true and congenial mind , than with hundreds of those chance acquaintances who are thoughtlessly termed friends . 
She was standing one day at the front window of her parlor , watching the boys who were at play outside , when her attention was attracted by a little , shaggy , white pony , approaching the house at a quick canter . 
As the village had been laid out with reference to that immense growth which it had not yet attained , and a wide open common intervened between Mr. Vaughan 's residence and the opposite street , the figure of the rider , who , regardless of the beaten track , pursued a direct course over the rolling prairie ground , was strongly defined on the open space and against the clear blue sky , and was watched by Mabel with intense interest and curiosity . 
Mabel was just considering whether she should go to meet this unexpected visitor , when , without the ceremony of a knock , the door was opened and she entered unannounced , with several letters and papers in her hand , which she was about to lay upon the table and retire ; but seeing Mabel , she paused , blushed slightly , then with the simple confidence of one who has never known cause for more than momentary embarrassment , advanced and cordially extended her hand . 
`` It is Miss Vaughan , '' exclaimed she , with unaffected astonishment and pleasure . 
Mabel shook the young girl 's hand warmly , for her appearance was very prepossessing ; she could not , however , disguise the curiosity she felt concerning her , and the little horsewoman ingenuously responded to it in the words -- `` I am Helen Gracie , the clergyman 's daughter , the village letter carrier , my father 's curate , and your father 's earliest acquaintance in the place , and medical adviser , too , I may say , if you will not think me proud . '' 
It was enough for Mabel , however , that she recognized in her the gentle nurse who had ministered to her father 's wants , and earnestly pressing the little hand which had applied the healing balsam and prepared the wholesome nourishment for her wounded and invalid parent , she proceeded to thank her in no measured terms for the friendly and neighborly part she had played . 
She had heard her father speak frequently of Miss Gracie 's attentions , and Harry , too , had referred to her by name ; but having pictured to herself some ancient and withered crone , laden with a huge bag of herbs , and prating of her skill , she could not sufficiently express her pleasure at this agreeable surprise . 
Mabel , charmed with her fresh and lady-like simplicity , begged that she would always thus dispense with ceremony ; and , Helen having been persuaded to take a seat , the two girls were soon chatting together with a freedom which gave the promise of speedy intimacy and mutual happiness in each other 's society . 
There was no question which Mabel could ask concerning the country , or the neighborhood , to which Helen could not give a prompt and intelligent answer , and no advice or counsel which she required in her present circumstances , which her new friend was not competent to bestow ; for Helen had been born in the West , and the greater part of her young life had been passed in this very locality , to which her father , a devoted minister of the gospel , had brought his only child in her infancy , and where , unbiassed by worldly prejudice , he had reared and educated her according to his own ideas of female loveliness and duty . 
exclaimed Mabel , as Helen laughingly declared that her experience dated back to that remote period . 
Then , reviewing with a smile the sweet , infantile features which seemed to mock the assertion , she added , `` No one would believe you such a veteran in the service ; but I shall take you at your word , and rely on your advice in all domestic matters , as well as in the wider range of subjects we have been discussing . 
The courageous boy answered readily in the affirmative , and in an instant the lively girl had lifted him to the saddle , and was laughing merrily at his delight , as she led the docile pony round in a wide circle ; then helping him to alight , she sprung into his place , waved her hand gaily to Mabel , who stood watching them in the doorway , and cantered off over the prairie in an opposite direction to that from which she had come . 
A moment after Harry crossed the bridge , and emerging from the thicket which bordered the river , joined Mabel on the doorstep , while the figure of Helen was still in sight , though gradually lessening in the distance . 
`` Harry , '' said Mabel with enthusiasm , `` she is the dearest little creature in the world . '' 
`` She lives in the cottage yonder ; you can see the smoke from the chimney , '' said Mabel . 
Harry did so , not unwillingly ; and as time passed on and the intimacy between the families continued to ripen , Mabel 's declaration and his suspicions regarding their new friend seemed destined to become confirmed . 
It was that season when good housewives improve the long days for the accomplishment of what they term their spring work ; and Mabel , in virtue of her thriftiness , devoted all the time she could spare from her other vocations , to the diligent plying of her needle , a species of industry which the family wants imperatively demanded . 
She was sitting at the window towards the close of an afternoon in the early part of April , busily occupied at her sewing , and Harry , at the opposite side of the room , was engaged with a book . 
Occasionally Harry laid down his book and yawned , then rose , gazed first from one window and then another , and finally resuming his seat , with his elbow resting on the half-closed volume , watched Mabel attentively and thoughtfully , as , unconscious of observation she stitched away on the garment , which she was anxious to finish that evening . 
Neither of them had spoken for a half hour or more , when Harry suddenly startled his sister with the abrupt remark , `` Mabel , I am tired of this kind of life ; I am going to work . '' 
Mabel made no reply ; she only looked more steadily at her work . 
He studied her face for a moment , but could not read its expression , the features were so fixed . 
Then pausing opposite to her he exclaimed , in a tone at once emphatic and full of deep and tender feeling , `` Mabel , this is all a humbug -- this great scheme of father 's . 
Her head dropped lower and lower on her bosom , a great tear fell upon her needle and glittered like a dewdrop , -- another blinded her eye ; still she feigned to be busy as ever with her work . 
She answered only by an affirmative nod . 
She had known it so long ; she had read it so many times in the old man 's face ; she had felt it so to her heart 's core , and treasured it there so religiously , as a fatal secret , that now to hear it spoken out , and to find herself assenting to the truth , seemed almost like a sacrilege , or the betrayal of a trust . 
Harry put these questions in quick succession , as each received the same silent but expressive reply with which Mabel had responded to his first query ; then added , gazing into her face meanwhile with wonder and admiration , `` So you have never been blinded for a moment to the true state of things ? 
Mabel , you are an angel ! '' 
`` No , I am not an angel , '' said she , looking up with a half smile ; `` nor are we a ruined family . 
Yes , Mabel , your industry and patience have been at once a reproach and an incentive to me . 
There was a manly earnestness in Harry 's tone which made it impossible to doubt his sincerity , and Mabel , both by voice and countenance , expressed an eager interest and pleasure in his declaration , which encouraged him to explain himself still further . 
The simple structure which was for the present to constitute his dwelling , was already in process of erection , and he had only delayed communicating these facts to Mabel because he dreaded to disclose those other truths which were involved in his decision , and which , he feared , would prove crushing to her hopes . 
That temptation was now at an end ; and , looking through the long vista of coming years , Mabel seemed , with prophetic vision to behold her stripling brother , over whose idleness and folly she had often wept bitter tears , developing into the athletic , honored , redeemed , and useful citizen . 
`` We shall miss you sadly , Harry , '' said she , when the story of his plans and expectations was fully told ; `` but oh , how happy you will be ! 
By the way , Mabel , '' added he , observing an eager lighting up of her countenance , `` I did not think , did I , to tell you that my excellent , whole-souled neighbor is the son of your charming old lady -- and she is a fine old lady , to be sure . 
`` I am , indeed , '' exclaimed Mabel with delight , `` and proud that you should have her son for a friend ; he must be a noble man , educated by such a mother . 
Harry laughed at her enthusiasm , but , at the same time acknowledged how fully he shared it . 
As the season was now nearly at hand when Harry 's presence would be constantly required at his farm , and many of his arrangements were still incomplete , his communication to Mabel was but the precursor to his bidding her farewell , and a few weeks later saw him established in his bachelor 's cottage , at about thirty miles distance , which , with the exception of an occasional visit to his family , thenceforward constituted his permanent residence . 
Mabel , on the other hand , strong in hope , and relying on Harry 's diligence and skill , encouraged him with her strong faith , and strengthened him with words of cheer ; and Harry , remembering and believing in the promises , sowed his seed in the morning , and in the evening withheld not his hand ; and the early and the latter rain watered and refreshed his furrows , and finally , when the autumn came , the earth brought forth her increase . 
A letterfrom Mabel to Mrs. Herbert , written about a year and a half subsequent to her arrival in the West , furnishes , in her own words , the best index to her mode of life , and the successive changes which had , within that period , transpired in the household . 
With the warmest love to Sue , Em , and Charlie , and those of the girls who were my fellow pupils , About this time Mabel received a communication through the post-office , which proved the occasion of much thought , and eventually of decisive action . 
Upon first perusing it , her countenance expressed a just and generous indignation , and this continued to be the prevailing tone of her feelings during the remainder of the day . 
The quiet evening hours afforded , however , an opportunity for meditation , and for holding counsel with her father , who assented to her suggestions with his usual air of indifference to all things connected with their present mode of life , and the next morning gave evidence of the conclusion to which she had arrived ; for , after carefully inspecting the size and furniture of their best vacant room , taking an inventory , as it were , of its contents , and of the various comforts which that and the house generally afforded , she seated herself at her little table , and committed her thoughts to paper : -- `` Dear Aunt Sabiah : -- thus she wrote -- I have been wandering about the house for the last half hour , asking myself whether the cottage-roofed chamber above can be made warm in winter , and cool in summer , whether the stairs are not too steep for any but youthful feet to climb , whether our parlor is not too contracted for comfort , and the view from its windows too strange and dreary to ever wear the look of home ; and I have concluded , in spite of all disadvantages , that , with love on our side , and the earnest wish to make you happy , you would be far more comfortable here , than in my aunt Ridgway 's spacious and richly-furnished mansion . 
You see I am quite taking it for granted you will come , but it is because I feel so truly , dear aunt , that your rightful and natural place is at our hearth-stone , as well as in our hearts ; and because I know you so well that I venture to believe you will not disappoint the earnest wishes and hopes of This cordial invitation , as Mabel had justly anticipated , resulted in the arrival of Aunt Sabiah , who , so far from refusing the summons , accepted it with joyful gratitude ; and one evening in the month of May , the parlor door was suddenly thrown open , and Murray rushed in , waving a stick in his hand , and exclaiming , `` She 's come ! 
`` Run , then , and help bring her parcels up to the house , '' cried Mabel . 
`` See , Alick has got the start of you already , '' and , without waiting for bonnet or shawl , she herself hastened to meet her aunt , who , left by the inexorable stage-driver , according to his custom , at the turn of the road , was looking about her with a bewildered air . 
`` Well , it 's a long road , but it has come to a blessed end ; '' and after fumbling in vain with a trembling hand at her shawl pin and bonnet strings , she submitted , as she never had submitted in her life before , while Mabel , kneeling on the floor beside her , gently removed her various wrappings , and succeeded in discovering her cap amid the chaos which Murray had created in the band-box . 
Two years residence with Mrs. Ridgway had accomplished what her mother 's injustice and fretfulness , and years of loneliness and neglect had failed to do ; and with a spirit and health utterly broken , and a self-reliant will entirely subdued by her sister 's hard and overbearing treatment , the crushed , enfeebled , and prematurely aged woman had thankfully sought the repose and shelter of her brother 's humble home , and Mabel 's unquestioned affection . 
And how welcome were they to the aching heart which , amid the abodes of wealth , had sighed for some quiet , unpre tending spot , where , without the oppressive sense of intrusion or restraint , she might spend the remainder of her days in a round of simple usefulness , and in an atmosphere of love . 
Mabel would scarcely have apologized in her letter for the plain furniture , the clumsy stair-case , the low-roofed rooms , or the solitude of the place , could she have foreseen the sense of peace and security which their very simplicity imparted to her aunt , awakening at once the thought , `` Here I can feel at home ! '' 
Nor would she for a moment have doubted her own unaided power to make the new inmate happy , could she have realized the ever increasing satisfaction with which the desolate heart would treasure up for days and years her first impulsive outbreak , as she threw her arms around the tottering figure , exclaiming , `` Dear aunt , we have got you back at last ; we shall never let you go again ! '' 
`` Well , really now , Mabel , '' said Sabiah , as she seated herself after tea , at a window , and drawing a huge ball of yarn from her pocket , commenced setting up a stocking , `` I do n't see such a great difference , after all , between this country and what I 've been used to at the East . 
exclaimed Mabel , who had been replacing the tea-cups in the closet , putting the room in order , and arranging everything pleasantly for the evening , but who now came and stood looking over her aunt 's shoulder , `` who calls this noble country heathenish ? '' 
`` I was going to say I should resent the charge , '' said Mabel , laughing ; `` but I should have so many more serious ones to settle with her first on your account , aunt , that her abuse of the country merely , would come very low on the list ; so we must let it pass , I suppose . 
said Mabel , fervently , `` I have done little enough , and have wasted many a good opportunity that will never come again , -- but what reward can I ask that I have not got already ? 
I am so proud of Harry , and the boys and I love each other so dearly , -- and I have got my good auntie back to knit stockings for us all , and -- but here comes my father , '' and her playful tone changed to one of deep sadness ; `` I can not boast that I have kept him well and strong ; -- poor old gentleman -- see how changed he is . '' 
Well , he is altered , I declare , -- but it is n't your fault , child ; -- he has grown old , to be sure , though , '' and Mabel and her aunt watched him with mournful interest , as , alighting from a shabby wagon , he fastened his jaded horse to a post , with the air of one not yet familiarized to the necessity of performing such offices for himself , and then walked feebly in the direction of the house . 
He seemed really glad to see Sabiah ; there was something touching , too , in his reception of her , as if misfortunes had replaced him in the position from which she had never arisen , and so united them more closely in interest and in heart . 
He felt instinctively that she would not perceive or suffer from the deficiences in his present establishment , and there was something soothing in the sight of her , and in the thought that she would relieve Mabel 's solitude , and perhaps share the labors to which he could not , though he strove to , be blind ; and so , whatever her fears might have been in regard to the welcome she should receive from her brother , they were relieved at once by his manner , and Sabiah felt herself fully installed in the household . 
Mabel 's life , like most human lives , had presented a period of rapid incident , startling vicissitudes , sudden bereavement , and great and increasing responsibilities . 
But to her , as to most persons who have experienced such a crisis , there had come a season when the spirits of revolution , disquiet , and change , which are ever rife in the world , seemed for a time to have forsaken Mr. Vaughan 's quiet dwelling , and time in its noiseless and scarcely realized progress , marked no striking or memorable event on the household calendar . 
From this source , too , his father 's family derived their chief means of support ; for though Mr. Vaughan had scorned to receive his son 's yearly apporpriation in the form of rent , and seemed with strange pertinacity to ignore the wants of his household , he could not shut his eyes to the fact that all the family supplies were forwarded by Harry , nor could he be insensible to the comforts which were purchased with the surplus cash , paid regularly into Mabel 's hands , and by her expended for the common good . 
Meanwhile , Sabiah 's bruised and wounded spirit revived under the soothing influence of affection ; her stiff and angular traits , both of thought and action , became softened by Mabel 's persuasive and winning grace , and gently and unconsciously she slid into that household niche for which nature had seemed to destine her . 
The light and irresponsible , though somewhat monotonous duties which she voluntarily assumed , became her pastime and her pride ; the respectful attention with which she was invariably treated laid to rest every suspicion that she might be deemed an intruder ; and the confidence with which she was received into family discussions and counsels , made her interests one with those of her young relatives . 
Her dread of strangers seemed as great as ever , for Mabel could not but observe that the first allusion to Helen Gracie , as a neighbor and friend , caused her aunt to start and shrink with seeming annoyance and alarm , exclaiming at the same time , `` Who is she ? 
And when Mabel replied , `` A dear little friend of ours , daughter of our minister , '' Sabiah turned away rather shortly , as if -LRB- at least , so Mabel interpreted the movement , -RRB- ministers and their daughters were among the inevitable trials of earth . 
At first Sabiah only watched her with an observant , critical eye ; then , after a few interviews , spoke to her with a more than common interest , and Mabel smiled to see how frequently she would lay her hand on the fair girl 's head with a degree of tenderness which she was not wont to manifest . 
Finally , no one could tell how or why , it became an established custom and a well-confirmed understanding , that the seat next to Aunt Sabiah , whether at the table or the fire-side , was sacred to Helen whenever she chose to occupy it ; and it was an equally acknowledged fact , that no one , not even Mabel herself , held a more certain place in her shrunken and exclusive heart , than the minister 's lovely and loving child . 
And in this home Mabel continued to be as she had been from the beginning -- the presiding genius . 
She walked , talked , studied , and played with the boys , encouraging them by her example , inciting them by her earnestness , cheering them by her mirth , and governing them by her love . 
And if she sometimes felt half impatient with the tedious and self-imposed tasks which their education involved , and sighed with weariness as she bent her head over the difficult translation or intricate problem which she must herself master before she could play the part of instructress to her nephews , she was more than recompensed for the effort when she noticed the respect which they involuntarily paid to her superior knowledge . 
Nor was the advantage which she thus acquired confined to a single occasion . 
It served to confirm her general influence , and strengthen her power to guide and direct their minds ; for no boy is less susceptible to the loving sway of woman because his intellect , as well as his heart , pays her homage . 
Had Mabel known no other interest in him than that which one earnest , truth-loving mind cherishes for another of the same scope and order , her enthusiasm would have been readily enkindled by the reports which reached her of his honorable and well-earned fame . 
Thus , dwelling in a neighborhood which presented but few of the refinements of life , associating constantly with boys just ripening into manhood , engaging with them in some of the sterner studies usually confined to their sex , and cultivating an intimate acquaintance with a mind accustomed to grapple with subjects of vital interest to society and the State , it might have been feared that Mabel 's manners would lose something of their delicacy ; that the sweet and feminine graces which constitute woman 's highest charm , would give place to bustling activity , or misplaced enthusiasm , and that her tone of thought , if not her mode of expression , would become masculine and harsh . 
But could Mabel have been so utterly false to her truer self , to that divine and saintly spirit , by the aid of which all her victories had hitherto been won , there was an influence ever at work to keep alive the tenderest emotions of her heart , and call into action all those gentle sympathies which soften , chasten , and subdue the soul . 
And , as a mother 's heart grows purer , stronger , holier , amid her anxieties , cares , and fears for her suffering infant , the soul of Mabel became more and more imbued with sweet , womanly tenderness , as she learned a new lesson of sacred love at the altar of filial duty . 
Thus , as time passed on , and every succeeding year ripened and enlarged her mind , and her genial and sunny temper shed light and gladness on her earthly sphere , there was ever one sad and plaintive strain mingling in the harmony of her life , one subject of faith , and hope , and prayer , which kept her heart turned heavenward . 
OfMabel Vaughan , the brilliant ball-room beauty , we have given no detailed description ; merely hinting at the peculiar charms which characterized her , and leaving it to the reader 's fancy to fill out the picture , since beauty is the same all the world over , subject only to differences of taste . 
Mabel Vaughan at twenty-five , however , merits a less brief introduction ; for time , without robbing her of youthful bloom , has developed in her traits which are less universally recognized , which are felt rather than acknowledged , and which are but the outward sign and expression of an inward truth . 
The prospect is vast , grand , and unbroken ; the hour is a quiet one , and Mabel is lost in meditation , -- not in a meditation proportioned to the sublimity of the scene , though she now and then gazes into the dim distance , with reverential awe , but in simple , loving thoughts , concerning her home and its various members -- wondering where the boys can be , for they went fishing early in the afternoon , and whether her father may not be spending the evening with Mr. Gracie , and if it is not probable that her aunt , in the inner room , has fallen asleep in her chair , and what can have become of Harry , who is at home for a day , but has been out of sight for some hours . 
The latter subject of self-inquiry is presently set at rest , as , looking in the direction of the grove by the river bank , she sees him approaching , and some one with him . 
But she does not wonder at that ; they are walking slowly and talking confidentially , too -- but neither does she wonder at that . 
She does wonder , however , as , on drawing near the house , Harry leaves his companion and goes off to speak with farmer James , while Helen , seeing her on the door-step , springs towards her , throws her arms around her neck , hides her cheek against hers , and sobs like a child . 
`` Why Helen , dear Helen , '' cries Mabel , in alarm , `` what is the matter ? 
`` Dear Mabel , how I love you . 
Mabel tried to speak , but her voice also failed her , and , for a few moments , the two girls mingled their tears . 
`` Think how noble he has been , Mabel ! '' 
I do not believe he would have now , if -- if -- '' `` I know , '' exclaimed Mabel , with a soothing tenderness of tone ; `` dear child , I know ! '' 
`` Poor fellow , he has undergone a long probation , '' said Mabel . 
It has been so different for me ; I knew all the time that he loved me , and I had so much to do for father and the people , and we have all been so happy together , hearing from Harry , and enjoying his little visits , and the time has seemed so short ; and I never looked forward to the future -- but he , living all alone , serving out an apprenticeship to his conscience , with nobody to cheer him , and all the while dwelling on the past , and doubtful for the future -- O Mabel , he has proved himself a hero ! '' 
`` He has his reward , '' said Mabel ; `` he will be able to boast of the best little wife in the world , and I of the dearest of sisters , '' and she kissed her affectionately . 
`` We ought to love one another , all of us , '' said Helen , with deep feeling , as she returned Mabel 's embrace , `` and the more so , because we do not know how soon it may be God 's will to part us . 
I must go home to him now ; '' and , as Harry made his appearance round the corner of the house , she bade Mabel good night , joined him , and , putting her arm confidingly in his , walked away in the direction of the parsonage . 
Mabel was still sitting on the steps when Harry returned , although he had been gone an hour , for he staid to receive an old man 's blessing and the free gift of his only child . 
It was now his turn to claim her loving sympathy . 
`` Mabel , '' said he , as he took a seat beside her , and put his arm around her waist , `` have I done wrong ? '' 
`` Helen 's love may be my reward , but it is yours , Mabel , which has saved me . 
Come Mabel ! 
Mabel and both the boys at once rose to accompany her ; Mr. Vaughan took his hat and cane , and , in an absent way , offered Helen his arm -- he was such a gentleman still in spite of cares and years ; but Sabiah , contrary to custom , -- for she was usually a regular attendant at church , -- expressed no wish to go , even resisted a little persuasion , and was left at home alone . 
Mabel lifted her large , brown eyes inquiringly to her aunt , but Sabiah made no reply , and the circumstance was forgotten , save that the thought passed through the mind of Mabel , `` how illness excites one 's sympathy , -- even Aunt Sabiah , it seems , has done her part in ministering to dear Mr. Gracie , whom she always used to avoid in his healthier days . '' 
The neat dwelling-house which the prosperous young farmer had recently built , and furnished with tasteful simplicity for the reception of his bride , had never yet been seen by any of his own family , and it was , therefore , with no ordinary interest and excitement , that Mabel , Alick , and Murray had projected a visit to the newly wedded pair . 
`` Aunt Mabel , are you thinking of establishing an express line ? '' 
Mabel laughed . 
`` Those are articles of Helen 's property , left in my care , '' said she ; `` handle that gently , Alick , it is her mother 's picture . 
`` That is true , '' responded Mabel ; `` Helen would be disappointed enough , if her father 's letters and sermons were left behind . 
now , you and Aunt Mabel sit in front and I 'll ride on the box -- the favorite seat always for sporting characters . '' 
The old gentleman , whose face had worn a most mournful gravity , at what appeared to him the degrading dilemma to which the party were reduced , could not resist a faint smile , as he seldom could when challenged to it by this merry-andrew of the family ; and , descending one step more , he handed Mabel to her seat . 
Mabel , meanwhile , converted the packing-case to a new use , by spreading a napkin over it , and making it answer the purpose of a table , from which she and her nephews enjoyed an excellent luncheon . 
It still wanted some hours of sun-set , when they came within sight of Harry 's new residence , which Alick and Murray recognized even more readily than Mabel , as occasional visits to their uncle , in times past , had made them familiar with the situation and out-buildings , while she had been there once only , and that some three years before . 
It would be equally in vain to attempt to follow them through the succeeding day , when the boys accompanied Harry for miles about his farm , took an inventory of his promised crops , examined his fat cattle , and drove a pair of newly-broken colts , while Mabel , beside bestowing her time and praise upon all these objects , had a thousand and one subjects of in-door interest to which Helen was eager to call her attention . 
`` You ought to stay with us a week , a mouth , a year , Mabel , before we should be satisfied , '' exclaimed Harry , on the second evening of their visit , as he drew her to a seat beside him . 
we shall be delighted , '' exclaimed Mabel ; `` I shall , and so will father , I have no doubt . 
I say ` us , ' Harry , '' added she , with an arch smile . 
`` It was a mere accident which prevented you from seeing Percival , Mabel , when you were here three years ago , '' said Harry , `` and both seasons since , he would gladly have accompanied me on a visit to my father 's , but I could not leave home at the time agreed upon . 
Helen consented to this disinterested act of hospitality on condition of a long visit from Mabel a few weeks later , and a partial promise to that effect having been obtained , the hour for departure was fixed upon , and shortly after sunrise the travellers were on their homeward road . 
For the last half hour , their winding course had led them through a belt of rich woodland , under whose refreshing shade , they had paused to rest their horse , and Mabel , meantime , removing her bonnet for the freer enjoyment of the breeze , while Murray crept down the river bank and made a collection of brilliant wild flowers , which , as they continued their drive , he busied himself , on his box behind , in wreathing into a tasteful garland . 
`` Come , old Sorrel , '' cried he , standing upright on the now empty box , and , as he spoke , placing the wreath , with an air of playful homage , on the uncovered head of Mabel , `` here 's a glorious race-course for you . 
He had scarcely uttered these words , accompanied as they were by a quick snapping of the whip on Alick 's part , when a sudden jerk and wrenching of the vehicle threw him from his elevated position , prostrate to the ground , and a scene ensued which wholly altered the face of affairs , leaving old Sorrel master of the race-course indeed , and Mabel an enthroned , but utterly helpless queen . 
No one was injured , for Alick and Mabel had maintained their seats in spite of the shock , and Murray was unharmed by his sudden fall ; but their situation was ludicrous and provoking in the extreme . 
Alick and Mabel presently controlled their sense of the ridiculous so far as to utter a few ejaculations of inquiry and regret , but Murray , as he stood first glancing at the pair who occupied in regal state the seat of the broken wagon , and then at the enfranchised horse who at a safe distance was performing an evolution around them , shook with a merriment so hearty and contagious , that it was impossible to take counsel in reference to their difficulties . 
All strained their ears to catch the welcome notes , and as they came nearer and nearer , Mabel 's face flushed with excitement and expectancy . 
She had heard the voice , the words , the glorious harmony but once before , and yet , though years had passed over her since , and it seemed a marvel too great to be fully realized , she knew that she could not be mistaken in their source . 
A moment more , and a figure on horseback emerged from the wood , and as he caught sight of his unexpected audience , ceased singing and came forward , looking about him as if striving to comprehend the scene . 
He was a young and powerfully-built man , dressed in a simple hunting-suit ; and the rifle which was slung over his shoulder , and the string of prairie-fowl suspended from his horse 's neck , proclaimed him to have been shooting successfully in the vicinity . 
He was a traveller , moreover , as might be conjectured from the saddle-bags and heavy surveyor 's blanket strapped to his saddle , and travelling quite at his leisure , too , if one might judge from the pace at which he rode . 
As he drew nearer , however , and surveyed the party more attentively , other and less easily defined emotions were depicted on the young man 's countenance , and Mabel 's face was suffused with the deep and conscious blush of the mutual recognition . 
They had met before , and then , as now , he had come to her rescue , though in a far different cause . 
It was six years and more since , in Mr. Bloodgood 's dwelling , on the night of Harry 's disgrace , she had first beheld that manly form and those noble features ; and now , after this lapse of time and under the most opposite circumstances , they had met again in the solitude of a Western prairie . 
Mabel and the boys looked on with intense and eager interest , while now describing a rapid circle , and now darting in an unforeseen direction , the accomplished horseman , partly by speed and partly by skilful manuvre , gained the advantage of the deserter , and , after a few moments ' hot pursuit , grasped him by the bridle and came bounding over the prairie with his unwilling captive . 
Mabel , who had stood upright in the wagon during the excitement of the chase , now gave her hand to Alick and sprang to the ground , just in time to greet with a smile of acknowledgment and thanks the victor in the animated chase , who rode up , laughing himself at the nature and success of his exploit ; and springing lightly from the saddle , put the bridle of old Sorrel into the hand of the admiring Murray , and , with one arm passed through that of his own horse , lifted his hat and bowed respectfully and gracefully to Mabel , saying -- `` You have met with a serious accident and delay , Miss Vaughan , but I hope you have none of you suffered any personal injury . '' 
`` None at all , thank you , '' replied Mabel ; while the boys looked their astonishment at hearing her name so confidently spoken by the stranger . 
She spoke the simple word friendwith an accent which expressed how deeply and gratefully she felt its force ; perhaps he understood that it had reference to the past as well as the present , for he replied in a tone equally impressive in its sincerity , `` Nothing can make me happier than to be of service to you ; '' and then , as Murray eagerly commenced relating the circumstances of the accident , he proceeded to an examination of the disabled vehicle , which , with the boys ' assistance , he easily raised from the hollow into which it had sunk . 
`` The frail nature of our repairs , Miss Vaughan , and the broken springs , render it impossible to occupy the wagon , '' said Bayard , approaching Mabel , who stood a little apart , `` but if you will do me the honor to make use of my horse , we can render the saddle comfortable for you with the help of this blanket ; '' and , as he spoke , he unfolded the rich and ample mantle of deep blue cloth and commenced laying it in heavy masses over the back of the animal , which stood arching its glossy neck , as if it , as well as its master , were proud of the proposed honor . 
Mabel earnestly deprecated the arrangement ; begged that he would not suffer them to interfere further with his journey , and insisted that she could walk , in company with her nephews ; but Bayard , having assured himself that her refusal did not proceed from any fear of his high-spirited horse , answered all her objections with the simple assurance that he was not in haste ; that a walk of ten miles , which was the distance to the village , their common destination , was a trifle to one of his pedestrian habits ; and the boys having united their persuasions to his , she blushingly and gratefully suffered herself to be assisted to the saddle . 
said she , as they were about to start . 
He handed it to her from the wagon , and as she prepared to put it on she became , for the first time , conscious that the garland , which she had noticed when Murray commenced weaving it in the wood , rested on her brow . 
exclaimed she accusingly , as she snatched it from her head , and flung it with such precision that it rested on the crown of his hat . 
All burst into an involuntary laugh , in which Mabel could not resist joining , though glad to hide beneath her bonnet the face which became crimson as she reflected on the singular and ludicrous inconsistency which Bayard must have detected between her crowned head and the awkward dilemma in which he had discovered their party . 
She little knew that she had never , in all her life , looked so radiantly lovely as when he first caught sight of her , with the drooping scarlet blossoms contrasting with the pure whiteness of her noble brow , and mingling with the smooth folds of chestnut hair , to which the sun imparted that golden tinge at once so rare and so beautiful . 
There is nothing which more effectually relieves embarassment than the presence of children ; and whatever constraint might have been occasioned by the peculiar reminiscences subsisting between Bayard and Mabel was at once subdued by the mediatory influence of the two lads , who , excited by their recent adventure , were unusually loquacious and animated . 
Even Alick , though looking up with enthusiastic admiration at the stranger , whose attention to Mabel was alone sufficient to insure his grateful regard , shook off , to a great degree , the modest reserve which characterized him , and won , in his turn , the friendly interest of the young man , who never undervalued the ingenuous and original , though immature , intellect of boyhood . 
Thus , with Bayard and Alick walking on either side of the horse which Mabel rode , and Murray a little in the rear , performing the self-appointed office of leading old Sorrel , and interlarding the others ' conversation with his drollery , they proceeded at the moderate , though regular pace suited to good pedestrians , with a ten miles ' journey in prospect . 
Mabel looked at her watch . 
`` It is now five o'clock , '' said she , then added in a tone of regret , `` I had no idea it was so late . '' 
`` The boys were urging our old horse to the top of his speed at the moment of the accident , '' said Mabel to Bayard , by way of explaining this little dialogue . 
Mabel smiled . 
`` Your grandfather will be prompt in claiming the privilege of having Mr. Percival for his guest , Murray , '' said she . 
This gentleman is a stranger to us , '' added she , turning to Bayard , `` but one for whom we have reason to feel the most grateful esteem , and we anticipate the highest pleasure from his oratory . '' 
`` I think not , '' said Mabel confidently . 
said Mabel to Bayard , as he assisted her from his horse . 
He thanked her , but politely declined , -- he had an appointment , and was expected elsewhere . 
`` I am greatly indebted to you , '' said Mabel , with feeling , at the same time frankly offering him her hand . 
`` Do not speak of it , '' said he , receiving her hand with the same unaffected cordiality with which it was offered ; `` it is I who am under a lasting obligation . 
`` Keep those , if you please , '' said Bayard , as the youth was also about to suspend the fruits of his shooting excursion around the horse 's neck ; `` if the poor fowls can be made serviceable for your grandfather 's table , my conscience will acquit me of mere wanton destructiveness ; '' and , having shaken hands with Alick and Murray , and glanced up at the house , where Mabel now stood in the doorway , gaily relating their adventures to her aunt , he mounted his horse and rode off at full speed . 
`` Father has gone to the lecture already , '' said Mabel to the boys , when , having delivered their dilapidated equipage into the charge of James , they came bounding into the house ; `` but see , Aunt Sabiah has a tempting supper prepared for us . '' 
`` It would depend considerably upon the kind of company we had on the way , -- would n't it , Aunt Mabel ? '' 
Mabel colored slightly , but with an unhesitating and intelligent smile assented to Murray 's remark . 
It was at this moment that Mabel and her nephews , somewhat heated and out of breath from their hasty meal and rapid walk , entered the gallery , which , although the entire assembly was freely interspersed with females , had been especially reserved for ladies . 
`` There 's Miss Vaughan and her boys , '' said a cousin of Melissa , wife to the innkeeper , addressing herself to two young girls whom Mabel was in the habit of instructing in the Sabbath School . 
And standing up and gesticulating violently to Alick , she contrived to let him understand that his aunt could be accommodated beside her , to which place Mabel was with some difficulty piloted ; and after thanking the obliging landlady and expressing a hope that she should not incommode any one , she seated herself , and as the din of applause subsided , her eye for the first time sought the platform . 
Had the young man indeed depended on Mabel for his inspiration , he could scarcely have bestowed on her a more earnest look than that which met her gaze , as at this moment he lifted his face and fixed his full blue eye upon her . 
As she encountered that expressive glance , her face , neck , and brow were suffused with crimson ; and when next it was turned upon his audience , she listened with straining ear and breath suspended , as if the fate of nations hung upon his first word . 
`` Aunt Mabel , '' exclaimed Murray , in an eager , excited whisper , at the same time leaning forward from a seat behind her and striving to attract her attention , `` It is , yes , it is our hunter -- our prairie friend -- our fellow-traveller ! '' 
cried Alick , in an earnest , dissuasive tone ; his quicker sensibilities revealing to him at a glance the emotions which were depicted in Mabel 's countenance ; `` There is no need to tell her that ; she sees , she knows . '' 
At that crisis in the feelings of the assembly when with one accord they rose and joined in common acclamation , the youth might have been observed to leave his seat , a little in the rear of Mabel , and darting down the aisle which divided the gallery , ensconce himself on the lowest step directly beside his young aunt , who turned , met the earnest look which he fixed upon her face , responded to it with an answering smile , clasped his extended hand , and the boy feeling himself to be understood by the only being whose sympathy and approbation he craved , was satisfied and content ; nor did he once again change his position or remove his eye from that of Percival until the close of the oration . 
We may not probe the reflections which coursed through the mind of the boy , far less can we follow all the windings of that train of thought and emotion which partially revealed itself in the face of Mabel , as she , too , watched the expression of Percival 's countenance , and drank in the inspiration of his words . 
For the first half-hour succeeding her entrance she was wholly engrossed by the tumultuous and agitating thoughts which attended her recognition of the speaker . 
Already , though known to her only by the report of his manly virtues , she had imaged him to herself as the impersonation of all that was truly noble , disinterested , and heroic ; and now , in addition to every other claim which he possessed to her esteem , respect , and gratitude , he had suddenly proved to be identical with the man who , years before , in the hour of her bitter agony and humiliation , had won for himself a lasting place in her memory and her prayers , and who once more , on this very day , had by his zealous efforts in her behalf confirmed her sense of deep and personal obligation . 
No wonder then , that from the moment when the harmonious tones of his voice fell upon her ear , confirming , as it were , the evidence of her other senses , she was for a while unconscious of the subject of his discourse , and realized only his individual presence . 
She could not long , however , continue indifferent to the topic which evidently , for the time , engrossed all the powers of his master mind , and reacted proportionately upon his audience . 
Her kindling eye and cheek soon gave evidence of the intelligence with which she grasped the ideas , and the fulness with which she shared the enthusiasm of the speaker ; the tear which now and then trembled on her eyelid , was significant of the sensibility awakened by the pathos which marked some portions of his appeal , and when , finally , the Christian orator commended them all to the keeping of their common Father , her face was expressive of the fervent aspirations of the uplifted soul . 
Thus , the impulse which led the shy and reserved Alick to exclaim in a whisper to Mabel , as soon as the address drew to a termination , `` Let us try and get out before the crowd , Auntie , '' met with a corresponding prompting on her part ; but finding that the suggestion could not be carried into effect without indecorous haste , and the possibility of giving offence , she made the best of her situation , suffered herself to be carried along with the rest of the throng , and responded good-naturedly to the various comments and criticisms upon the orator and the oration which saluted her on every side . 
`` Is n't he a splendid fellow , Aunt Mabel ? '' 
`` Yes , very , '' replied Mabel , in an absent way ; but Murray , too much excited to need further encouragement , rattled on for some time in a similar strain , and closed by saying in a tone of confidence , `` Al liked it , I know , because he did n't say a word ; he never does when he 's pleased ; but , '' added the boy , who had now learned to love and appreciate his brother , `` he 'll prove it to us one of these days , I expect , in a way that speaks louder than words . '' 
said Mabel . 
`` Aunt Mabel , '' cried Murray , `` did you see how interested grand-father was ? '' 
Mabel had no doubt of it , as their uncle Harry had assured her that his friend brought a note of introduction to her father . 
`` And we , '' said Mabel , `` in our anxiety to do honor to our expected guest , suffered him to walk nearly a dozen miles over the prairie . 
As it appeared , upon inquiry , that he had had no opportunity for refreshment of any sort since he halted at a village tavern , a little before mid-day , Mabel hastened from the room , `` on hospitable thought intent , '' and while Mr. Percival engaged her father upon the subject of agriculture , and especially Harry 's successful farming , in which the old gentleman had never before appeared to take the slightest interest , she assisted Melissa in spreading a table and preparing an inviting repast . 
All were soon gathered round the neat and plentiful board , at which Mabel presided with as much grace and dignity as if she had held the seat of honor in her father 's New York mansion , with Robert , the well-trained waiter , standing behind her chair . 
The boys were encouraged to contribute their share to the social interchange of thought ; and Mabel 's opinions and feelings were deferred to with that consideration which highminded men are ever ready to pay to intelligent women . 
`` Good morning , Auntie , '' cried Murray , as , the next day soon after sunrise , he called to her from outside the pantry , adjoining the kitchen , where she was busy in making some preparation for breakfast ; and , as he spoke , the affectionate , thoughtless boy flung open the blinds and disclosed the figure of Mabel standing just within the open window moulding some biscuit with the cover of the dredging-box which she held in her hand . 
`` I shall come home with a proof of my skill ; see if I do n't , Aunt Mabel ! '' 
Mabel wished them success , and stood looking after them a moment , her rosy-tipped fingers , slightly besprinkled with flour , resting meanwhile on the moulding board ; then closing the blinds , without , however , shutting out from the mind 's eye the image of that manly form and open countenance which carried with them a cheerful and magical influence , she quietly resumed her occupation . 
After delivering the pan of biscuit to Melissa 's charge , and leaving to her , also , the cooking of Bayard 's prairie fowl , in the serving of which she was an adept , Mabel joined her aunt in the parlor , and had not yet laid down the Bible , from which she had , by Sabiah 's request , been reading a chapter aloud , when the sportsmen returned from their excursion to the river-side . 
said she , as she observed a pair of silver-breasted ducks , which the latter had thrown down upon the grass . 
Mabel looked meaningly at Murray and laughed . 
Mabel was standing on the door-step when Bayard came to bid her farewell . 
`` Harry has an appreciating disposition , '' said Mabel , `` and his good heart makes him grateful for the affection and kindness which he always feels to be beyond his merits . 
He paused , seemed anxious to add something more , -- hesitated , and then , with an embarrassment foreign to his usual manner , bade her an abrupt farewell . 
Communications were received and dispatched by every mail ; Mabel and the boys being employed as amanuenses by the enfeebled man , whose trembling hand could no longer keep pace with his excited ideas . 
Once more the roll of charts , recently fallen into comparative disuse , was brought forward , examined , and allotted a conspicuous place on the table of the little parlor , now become the scene of eager consultations ; and once more old Sorrel was called into requisition for those journeyings which Mr. Vaughan , despite his years , undertook as readily as in former times , usually accompanied , however , by one of his grandsons , both of whom shared Mabel 's anxious sense of responsibility concerning him . 
All ordinary avocations were now abandoned , and the whole household united in attentions and devotion to one whom Mabel 's example , no less than their own feelings , had taught them to regard with that tenderness which is usually paid exclusively to infancy . 
Mabel , whose capabilities as a nurse had been well proved already , was ever at the post of duty , reinforced and aided , however , by Alick , who , patient , gentle , and capable as a woman , placed himself at his grandfather 's bedside and waited on him with an assiduity which was touching in a youth of his years . 
`` Leave the door open , Mabel , '' said he , when his daughter , who , later in the evening came to bring him a cup of tea , was about to close the door opening into the parlor . 
Wondering , scarcely daring to trust the evidence of her senses , Mabel did as she was requested , asking herself , meanwhile , what could have awakened in her hitherto self-absorbed and indifferent parent , such a thoughtful interest in his children 's conversation and pursuits . 
She half suspected that it had its source in feverish excitement , and that he would experience , in consequence , a wakeful night , possibly a relapse . 
One evening , while he was still confined to his bed , Mabel , who had been sitting beside him for an hour or more , rose , listened a moment to his regular breathing , then , believing him to be asleep , went cautiously out into the parlor , and , in her anxiety to close the latch gently , unintentionally left the door ajar . 
Weary with the labors of the day , and suffering also from a headache , which was unusual to her , Mabel approached with a languid step , and , sitting down on a low footstool , leaned against her aunt 's knee . 
They had remained thus in silence for some time , when Sabiah almost startled her niece by the abruptness and warmth with which she exclaimed , `` Mabel , I am afraid you will be an old maid ! '' 
The low , merry laugh which succeeded Mabel 's first astonishment at her aunt 's earnestness , seemed to signify how little she dreaded the doom of which Sabiah had such a fearful foreboding . 
asked Mabel . 
answered Sabiah , with feeling , at the same time smoothing Mabel 's hair tenderly with her hand . 
You wo n't find another Mabel in the world . '' 
`` I shall always find somebody to love , '' said Mabel ; `` somebody to whom I can be of use . '' 
Mabel smiled thoughtfully , as she remembered the indiscriminate zeal with which her aunt had always espoused Dudley 's interests . 
There was no other emotion awakened in her heart , however , at the mention of his name . 
The events connected with this early preference , viewed as they were through the glass of a memory laden with anxieties and care , seemed to be rather a part of her child-life , than a bitter and realized fact in her womanhood . 
Ah , that 's the rub , after all , to find any body that 's good enough for you , Mabel ! '' 
`` I never saw but one person that was good enough for her , '' said Alick , who had come in unperceived . 
`` Aunt Mabel , '' said Alick , whose thoughtful mind often led him from the special topic of conversation into the wider field of philosophy , `` do you think a man is any more likely to forget simple , every-day duties , because he is engaged in a great work , and has a great object in view ? '' 
`` I think it depends altogether upon his motives , Alick , '' replied Mabel . 
said Mabel , at the same time pondering in her mind Dudley 's insinuations concerning the difficulty which had existed in the family with regard to settling the estate . 
`` Wealth is a great temptation , and a great responsibility , '' said Mabel . 
A conversation now ensued with reference to the boys ' future choice of professions , in which they might hope for usefulness and success ; a not infrequent subject of discussion , but which was , on this occasion , terminated by Mabel 's remarking , `` It is getting late , boys ; Aunt Sabiah looks tired , and we shall have ample time to consider the comparative merits of the different professions before either of you are obliged to come to a decision . 
and rising from her low seat , Mabel took the Bible and prayer-book from the table , and when Murray came back with the lamp , read , according to their evening custom , a portion of Seripture and a simple prayer , such as she and the boys had become familiar with from long use of their little service-book . 
`` Good night , my daughter , '' said Mr. Vaughan , as Mabel was leaving his room , after moving about with a light step to see that everything was arranged for his comfort , shading the lamp with her hand , lest its rays might wake the supposed sleeper . 
asked she , in some surprise . 
My eyes are opened at last , Mabel , to the truths to which they have long -- too long -- been closed ; come and kiss me before you go to bed . '' 
And as she stooped over him to fulfil the unusual request , he added , `` you are a good girl , my dear -- a great blessing to your old father . '' 
Mabel rose to assist in the search , and at length discovered it on the little table beside her father 's bed , with his spectacles between its covers . 
Occasionally , afterwards , it was missing , and was found in the same place ; and once Mabel observed the old man attentively reading it . 
He laid it down , upon perceiving her , however , and no remark was made on either side . 
One day , when he had been thus seated for some hours , gazing into the fire , communing with his own thoughts and apparently unconscious of everything around him , he suddenly lifted his head and exclaimed to his daughter , who was the only person present , `` Mabel , bring me my charts ! '' 
Great as had been Mabel 's horror of this deceitful schedule of future fortune , she could not resist a sudden shudder and sensation of alarm , as she thus witnessed the annihilation of the time-worn papers , which she had learned to regard with a species of awe . 
She was reassured , however , by the calm , self-satisfied smile with which her father looked up at her , when the work of destruction was accomplished . 
More completely still was she conscious of the sanity of his purpose , when , laying his hand upon the Bible , which rested on the table beside him , he said , solemnly , `` Henceforward , Mabel , this is my only chart ; and the only road which shall engross my thoughts , is that which leadeth to eternal rest . 
Yes , Mabel , I have been strangely blind to the welfare of my family ; but God has done for me and mine more and better than I could ask or think . '' 
`` We are very happy , father , '' said Mabel , `` far more so than when the world envied our good fortune . '' 
As soon as Harry could be released from the cares attending the harvesting of his crops , he came again to his father 's partly to share his sister 's joy in the old gentleman 's restoration to health and peace of mind , and still more to persuade Mabel , if possible , to return home with him . 
Mabel , who felt no other symptoms of illness than an unusual lassitude and occasional headache , would have resisted Harry 's pleadings ; but her father , realizing how severely her strength had recently been taxed , warmly seconded the proposition , and even intimated the probability that , if they found themselves equal to the jaunt , he and Sabiah would join her at the farm , in the course of a few weeks . 
It being thus arranged that the rest of the household were to follow in a few weeks , Harry hurried Mabel with her preparations , and the next day she accompanied him to the abode of plenty and contentment , where his happy young wife was impatiently awaiting their arrival . 
`` Now remember , Mabel , '' said Helen , when the former was at length installed in the room which Harry in building the house had denominated Mabel 's , `` you are to do nothing while you are here , but ride , and walk , and talk , and waste time , if you choose to term it so , in every possible way . 
You are to keep your hands folded in this fashion -LRB- and she playfully placed them in a most indolent attitude -RRB- , and are to make it the chief business of your life to be idle . '' 
Mabel declared with a languid air , which was more felt than feigned , that she should have no difficulty in obeying these rules , for if the weather continued as at present , she could spend whole days satisfactorily in gazing out of the window . 
This unusual lassitude , and low , feverish tendency , which had been observed in her before she left home , became more marked , now that she was freed from all necessity for exertion ; and Harry , no less than Helen , sought to dissipate the effects of too much anxiety and confinement , by insisting that she should spare herself all fatigue , and keep as much as possible in the open air . 
One morning , when they were returning from one of these excursions , they perceived a neat little pleasure carriage standing before the door , which Harry recognized as belonging to Percival ; and , at the same moment , Mabel saw through the window the unmistakable form of his venerable mother who , at the announcement of Mabel 's approach , had risen from her seat , and with a smiling countenance was awaiting the arrival of her young friend . 
The old lady 's figure was firm and erect as ever ; her eye had lost nothing of its brightness ; and her countenance , though more strongly marked with the lines of age , still wore its mild and winning benignity of expression . 
Nor had time had power to diminish the tender interest which she cherished for Mabel , as was evident from the heartiness with which she advanced to meet the eager and excited girl , and fold her in a warm embrace , saying , `` Ah , my dear child , I see you then at last . 
Mabel could not find words to express the joy she felt at the unexpected meeting ; but Madam Percival who read her countenance aright , and saw that she was well nigh overpowered by the train of moving associations which it called up , responded to her broken ejaculations of surprise and delight , by pressing her once more to her side , saying -- `` These re-unions are blessed things my dear ! 
Mabel , who had not had a thought for any one but Madam Persival , now followed the direction of the old lady 's eyes , and her face lighted up with fresh satisfaction as she beheld Bayard 's favorite niece and her own devoted champion , scarcely altered in appearance since she had seen her last , and with her enthusiasm for Mabel undiminished , as was evident from the beaming face with which she watched her movements , and now , as she saw herself recognized , came forward with outstretched hand . 
have you made the acquaintance of Mrs. Vaughan , '' asked Mabel , as having exchanged cordial salutations with Bessie , she glanced towards Helen , who was a deeply interested and smiling spectator of the scene . 
Madam Percival still kept Mabel close beside her , however , and at length remarked , with some little anxiety in her tone , -- `` They tell me , my dear , that you are not well -- that you have had too much care of late ; -- so , though I should not judge it from your face -LRB- Mabel 's face was a little flushed by the excitement of the interview -RRB- , I wish to make it a plea for begging you away from Mrs. Vaughan for a few days ; that is if you will trust yourself to an old friend 's care , as readily as you once did when she was a stranger . 
Come , '' added she , laying her hand earnestly on Mabel 's shoulder , by way of enforcing the request -- `` will you indulge me so far as to go home with us to-day ? 
Mabel thanked her most warmly , professed unbounded confidence in that kindness and care of which she had formerly experienced the benefit , but at the same time hesitated , and gave a somewhat evasive reply to the invitation , saying that she considered herself under Helen 's orders , and doubted her consent . 
Perhaps Bessie , who still cherished a painful recollection of her uncle 's severe and unjust criticism of Mabel , might have suspected that he was an object of her avoidance and dislike , and so artfully added this last clause by way of assuring her that she would not be subjected to his society ; if so , her suspicions were probably confirmed by the fact that when Madam Percival triumphantly announced Helen 's consent to grant the required leave of absence , Mabel no longer manifested any want of alacrity in accepting the invitation , and expressed without reserve the pleasure she should have in accompanying them . 
And the venerable lady , who knew how to accommodate herself with ready grace to all circumstances in life , allowed Mabel to assist in the removal of her bonnet and shawl , and during the space of a couple of hours , which was the limit of her visit , entered with cordial zeal into the interests of the youthful group by whom she was surrounded , and by the charm of her manners and conversation imparted both ease and spirit to the social occasion , without once derogating in the least from the dignity which became her years . 
As dinner was served with great punctuality , and Madam Percival was anxious to reach home before sundown , no further delay was suffered to interfere with her departure , and at an early hour in the afternoon the party set off ; Mabel and the old lady on the back seat of the light pleasure carriage , and Bessie stationed in front , beside a serious looking youth who officiated as coachman to the establishment . 
Nor was this harmony of sight and sound marred by any sense of effort or constraint on the part of Mabel and her companions , who discoursed with unaffected ease , or maintained , at pleasure , that silence which is sometimes so satisfactory among those who are confident of each other 's sympathetic enjoyment . 
As they drew within half a mile of their destination , the road led through a little grove of maples and oaks , gorgeous with brilliantly-dyed leaves , a portion of which had already fallen and bestrewed the ground ; and , for the rest of the distance , Mabel was conscious that they were gradually ascending to a higher point of land . 
She was not prepared , however , for the scene which awaited her , when at length , emerging from the wood , she saw the house directly before her , and took in at a glance the expansive view which the little eminence commanded . 
As far as the eye could reach in every direction , save one , it was met by an open expanse of prairie , grain land , and forest , with here and there a little collection of farm-houses and a village church , but fair and extensive as was this view of the rich and open country , the involuntary exclamation of delight which burst from Mabel 's lips , as she looked forth upon the prospect , was chiefly due to the emotion of joyful surprise with which she beheld , stretching far out to the eastern horizon , dancing and sparkling in the sunlight , the clear , blue waters of Lake Michigan . 
said Madam Percival , in response to Mabel 's half-expressed ecstasy of pleasure ; while Bessie turned her back upon the prospect to read its reflection in Mabel 's eyes . 
`` You will not think I have been gone too long , Patten , '' said Madam Percival , `` when you see whom I have brought back with me ; '' and , as Mabel leaned forward , bowed , and was recognized , the good woman confirmed her mistress ' remark , by holding up both hands and exclaiming , `` Bless my eyes ! 
she continued , when Mabel had alighted , and cordially shaken her by the hand . 
And for one half hour she was unwearied in her efforts to render them all , as she said , `` right comfortable . '' 
And right comfortable it seemed to Mabel , as the twilight hours came on and found them grouped round the wide hearth ; Madam Percival , as she sat upright in her easy-chair , relating to the girls on either side of her those most delightful of all narratives , the experiences of bygone days ; while the flickering flames cast a subdued , but cheerful light round the room , and were reflected in the polished furniture and the old family tea-urn under the antiquated sideboard . 
To Mabel especially , who had been taxed with a responsibility disproportioned to her years , and had well nigh sunk beneath the burden of recent labors , there was sweet and welcome repose in being thus sheltered under the wing of her aged friend 's tender and protecting care ; and even the heavily-carved chairs and tables , the Turkey carpet , the antique fire-set , and the quaint , old family plate , which were here preserved as ancestral heirlooms , all bore their part in giving to the place the secluded and familiar air of a cherished home . 
Thus , the first evening of her visit proved one of unmixed satisfaction , and the night that followed , brought with it sweet and dreamless rest . 
said Madam Percival , as she joined her young friends on the verandah the next morning , and addressed herself to Mabel , who , under Bessie 's instruction , was becoming acquainted with every feature in the wide landscape . 
Mabel promptly replied in the affirmative . 
Bessie , no less than Mabel , expressed her pleasure at the proposition , and , while the latter went to her room to prepare for the walk , the former ran for her own and her grandmother 's bounets . 
`` Now , my dear , '' said Madam Percival , as she took Mabel 's offered arm , bearing no weight upon it , however , for she was at present the stronger of the two , -- `` I must tell you something of the individual whom we hope to see this morning . '' 
asked Mabel . 
said Mabel , as they now came in sight of a comfortable two story dwelling , surrounded by spacious and substantial barns and granaries . 
Thus invited , Mabel entered at the door which stood hospitably open , and passed on to a sitting-room on the right . 
It was furnished in the simple style of a farmer 's family ; was in perfect order , and unoccupied ; there seemed nothing to startle and astonish a visitor , and yet Mabel stopped short , and stood gazing at the opposite window , like one lost in a dream . 
What was there in a little rush-bottomed arm-chair , a wooden foot-stool , an old leather-covered bible , and an open daguerreotype case , which could have power to transfix her in silent wonder , and send the tears coursing down her cheek ? 
Yes , there was no mistaking these mute witnesses , which had seemed a part of Rosy 's little life ; and for an instant Mabel stood transfixed opposite the vacant arm-chair , tearful , bewildered , and unconscious of the surprise she herself excited in Madam Percival and Bessie by her singular demeanor . 
The next moment , a door opened from the kitchen , and an elderly woman , with an infant in her arms , entered , and was advancing with a respectful air to speak to Madam Percival , but , seeing Mabel , she stopped short , uttered an exclamation of joy , and forgetting her customary awe of her more stately visitor , -- forgetting everything but the engrossing interest of the moment , she placed the child , without apology , in Bessie 's arms , and exclaiming in a broken voice , `` Dear Miss Mabel ! 
Mabel , who at the sound of her voice had recognized the mother of Rose , and had cordially returned her greeting , now turned to Madam Percival to ask an explanation from one who , on her part , wore a countenance full of astonishment and inquiry , when Lydia , who had been summoned by loud cry from the baby , made her appearance on the scene , smoothing down her apron , and buttoning the sleeves which had been turned up to her elbows . 
If Madam Percival and Bessie were already astonished spectators , it may well be believed that their amazement now reached its height , as Lydia , the same excitable creature as ever , gave a sudden start , threw herself on her knees beside Mabel , caught her hand , kissed it repeatedly , laughed , cried , then laughed again , and , snatching her infant from Bessie , placed it in Mabel 's arms , saying , `` See my baby ! 
and finally burst into tears once more , as she whispered , `` Her name is Rose . '' 
said she , as , with an attempt to recover her self-possession , she came forward to pay her respects to Madam Percival and her granddaughter , `` but Miss Vaughan has been such an angel of goodness to us , and our dear little Rose loved her so much ! '' 
The excuse was not needed , however , as was evident from the cordial sympathy which shone in Madam Percival 's face , as she gleaned from the mutual expressions of interest which were exchanged between Mabel and these humble friends , the nature of the tie which bound them so strongly to one another ; and the good-hearted Bessie had only waited to be relieved from the care of the child , to turn her face towards the window and wipe away a tear . 
`` I have been telling you , my dear , as we came through the wood , '' said Madam Percival to Mabel , who was caressing the infant , `` the experience of a mutual friend of ours , but I little suspected that I was omitting the most interesting feature of the tale ; here he is , however , to speak for himself . 
The astonishment of Mabel , the blushing bashfulness of Lydia , the contented smile of her mother , the crowing applause on the part of the baby , and the sympathetic satisfaction of Madam Percival and Bessie , indeed reached their climax , as the sturdy form of the honest Owen now appeared in the door-way , his eye bright with pleasure , and his face glowing with earnestness . 
`` You speak the truth , Mr. Dowst , '' said Mabel . 
`` She is ashamed of having kept her secret from me so long , '' said Mabel . 
asked Mabel , when , composure being at length restored , she found herself seated next to Mrs. Hope , who had by this time claimed her sacred prerogative , -- the charge of Rosy 's namesake . 
said Mabel . 
`` She does indeed speak to us all , '' said Mabel . 
`` Such heartfelt gratitude and affection as have been manifested towards you to-day , my dear , '' said Madam Percival to Mabel , when they were once more returning homeward through the grove , `` are a sweet compensation for the hours stolen from gayer pleasures and devoted to works of charity and love . '' 
`` The sincere regard of these good friends is of priceless value to me , '' answered Mabel , `` but it is a voluntary offering , not a compensation . 
`` I have , '' said Mabel . 
`` It hangs in our parlor at home ; '' and as she spoke she called to mind the interest , even amounting to curiosity , with which Percival , on his recent visit , had appeared to examine both engraving and frame , no doubt identifying them as having once been his property . 
TheSabbath which was to terminate Mabel 's visit at Lake Farm dawned clear and beautiful . 
It still wanted a few moments to the breakfast hour , and Mabel , with the bed-room window thrown open , stood enjoying the beauty of the landscape , and refreshing her spirit with the meditations to which it gave rise , when a few soft , long-drawn notes of music fell upon her ear , so harmonious and so perfectly in unison with the scene and the hour , that they might almost be mistaken for the sighing of the breeze through the old hemlock in front of her window . 
Even when gradually swelling in sound and volume they filled the air with sacred melody , there was something so soothing , so grand , and so inspiring in the strain , that she scarcely cared to question herself concerning its source , but stood enraptured and engrossed , all other senses absorbed in that of hearing . 
It was evidently the music of an organ , played with no ordinary power and skill ; and Mabel , who had observed such an instrument in the library , experienced a dim consciousness that the sound proceeded from its pipes . 
The library , which was also the usual breakfast-room of the family , was situated in one of the wings at the extremity of the building ; and it being Mabel 's purpose to surprise her friend by unexpectedly making her appearance at the window , she was tripping lightly round an angle of the verandah , when she suddenly stopped short , and blushed with embarrassment as she encountered , face to face , the true author of the music , the young master of the house , who , having in a characteristic manner given notice of his return home , had sallied forth upon the piazza to enjoy the beauty of the morning . 
Their meeting upon the lonely prairie a few weeks before was scarcely more unexpected to either party ; but , as the good sense of Mabel and the active benevolence of Percival had dispelled the awkwardness of that occasion , so , now , the simple candor of the one , and the utter freedom from self-consciousness on the part of the other , quickly restored their mutual equanimity , which had for a moment been disturbed . 
`` I was hastening to thank Bessie for my share of enjoyment in that beautiful symphony , '' said Mabel , after exchanging a cordial greeting with Percival , who could not , if he would , have disguised his pleasure at meeting her . 
added he , glancing inquiringly at her face , which , the glow of sudden surprise having subsided , certainly presented a marked contrast to the hue of health which it had worn on the day of their prairie excursion . 
`` My friends say not , '' replied she , smiling , `` but I scarcely own it myself , I am so little accustomed to play the part of an invalid . '' 
`` I fear it is too cold for you on this side of the house , '' said Bayard , who observed that the breeze had blown the searf from her head and left it unprotected ; and , with a respectful gallantry most becoming to a man of his commanding presence , he offered his arm , to accompany her to that part of the verandah which was warmed by the morning sun . 
As she had no longer any object in proceeding to the library , she accepted the proposition and the offered arm , and , Madam Percival not having left her room , and there being as yet no summons to breakfast , they continued to walk slowly up and down for a few minutes , while Bayard inquired with interest concerning the various members of Mr. Vaughan 's family , and expressed his sincere regret at the old gentleman 's illness , which he rightly conjectured to be in no slight degree connected with the evident change in Mabel . 
`` By no means , '' said Mabel , smiling , but at the same time withdrawing her hand from his arm and stepping inside the doorway . 
`` For people whom it is no flattery to praise , '' said she , breaking away from him , and putting her arm within that of Mabel , in a defiant manner , which seemed to imply that they two constituted a coalition against him ; `` Miss Vaughan never heard me say anything but good of her . '' 
The words might have escaped Bessie accidentally ; but Bayard evidently felt them , for he bit his lip and seemed slightly confused by the reminiscence which they awakened , while Mabel lifted her eyes for an instant to his face , and then turning away made some abrupt remark upon the extent of the prospect . 
Mabel had seen them both in many and varied relations ; but never had either more fully commanded her admiration and interest , than at this moment , when the young man stood encircling his mother 's waist with his strong arm , while she looked fondly up into his clear blue eye , in which she seemed to read the fulfilment of all a parent 's hopes . 
Besides , as we wish , we are apt to believe ; and I felt sure you would be disappointed if you wholly missed the pleasure of our young friend 's visit , '' and she laid her hand expressively on Mabel 's shoulder . 
And taking Mabel 's hand in hers , she accompanied her across the hall , making amends for having in the parent half-forgotten the hostess , by the affectionate solicitude with which she now questioned her concerning her health . 
Towards Mabel , his manner was at once marked by sincere respect and cordial friendliness ; nor , although conscious that Bessie was watching him with an eye full of mischief , did he fail in any of those thoughtful attentions which become a gentleman and a host ; for , however he might feel annoyed by his niece 's raillery , he was not one to be deterred by self-conscious shyness or awkward embarrassment from that chivalrous devotion to which Mabel was entitled as his mother 's guest , independently of her personal claims as a young and beautiful woman . 
`` A noble field of labor , '' said Mabel , who sat where she too could command the prospect . 
`` And yet , my dear , '' said Madam Percival , `` if you did but realize it , you have been laboring for the last six years in a far wider field , and a richer soil , where , if my son is not mistaken , the fruit is already ripe unto the harvest : I mean the hearts and minds of those two boys of yours , '' added she , observing Mabel 's puzzled and inquiring look . 
Mabel colored with mingled modesty and pride at this praise of her own faithfulness and its results ; and Bayard , turning round , hastened to confirm his mother 's remark , congratulating her on the hopes which might reasonably be indulged in reference to her nephews , with whom he had evidently been most favorably impressed . 
said Mabel , with simplicity , `` indeed , I have had no rules , no theory ; I sometimes think that the boys have taught me far more than I have them . '' 
I am quite impatient '' sad she turning to Mabel , `` for the day when you shall introduce these young gentlemen to me once more . 
But my dear girls , '' she continued glancing at her watch , `` if we are going to church this morning , it is time we were making our preparations ; Bayard , have you given any directions about the horses ? '' 
His mother proceeded to express her regret at the prospect of so soon parting from Mabel , and at the same time suggested the possibility of obtaining a longer leave of absence from Helen ; but Mabel gratefully , though firmly declined prolonging her visit , at the same time expressing the pleasure it had afforded her , and the three ladies then separated until it should be time to leave for church . 
asked Bayard in a low tone as he saw Mabel 's small travelling box brought from her room to be placed in the carriage . 
Though uttered in a mocking tone , this reply effectually disconcerted Bayard ; the expostulations which had risen to his lips , at the signs of their guest 's departure , were instantaneously checked ; he stood by in constrained silence , while his mother made one more attempt to change Mabel 's resolution , and even assisted in the convenient arranging of her luggage without expressing a syllable of surprise or regret . 
Percival who occupied the back seat with Mabel , gave her an account of the growth and prospects of the little church , which was situated midway between Bayard 's estate and that of her brother . 
Helen and Harry had arrived in advance , and were on the steps to welcome them and to reclaim Mabel , whom Harry boasted it was no slight generosity in them to have relinquished for so long a period . 
The simplicity with which it was conducted , however , the earnestness of the preacher and the attention of the audience , made the occasion both profitable and interesting , and effectually beguiled Mabel of all sense of weariness . 
Within sight of her , in a neighboring pew , were her humble friends , the Hopes , clothed in their Sunday attire , and decked in the smiles which bespeak cheerfulness and content . 
Madam Percival 's pew was a little in the rear of Harry 's , and Mabel , who had followed her brother and Helen into church , while the old lady and Bessie were still lingering in the porch , had for a time lost sight of her friends . 
Their vicinity was soon made evident , however , when the congregation joined in the opening hymn ; for never had the rich voice of Bayard , which had power to enchain select audiences , and make the wild prairie ring with its full , clear song , sounded so melodious in Mabel 's ear , as now , that it was consecrated to a sacred service and led the voices of the multitude in a united chorus of praise . 
Mabel 's box had been transferred to Harry 's rockaway , which together with Mr. Percival 's carriage stood before the door , and the horses being restless , the ladies made haste to exchange their last words . 
`` Bessie forewarned me , Miss Vaughan , '' said Percival , while handing Mabel down the steps , `` that it was hopeless to urge a continuance of your visit to my mother ; but as Harry and Mrs. Vaughan give me the freedom of their house , I hope I may soon have the pleasure of seeing you again , in my character of a friend and neighbor . '' 
Mabel frankly replied , that nothing would give her greater pleasure . 
A moment more and both carriages were off on different roads , which stretched across a plain so level and so uninterrupted that at the distance of nearly two miles Mabel could clearly distinguish a handkerchief which Bessie was waving in her hand as a farewell signal . 
But Mabel had yet to learn what is was to be a friend and neighbor in the sense in which Bayard understood those terms . 
Though for six years a resident of the West , which is truly a country of gigantic distances , she had never believed it possible that ten miles of space could be so practically annihilated , as was instanced during the few following weeks , when , if Bayard 's and Harry 's estates had been but a stone 's throw apart , they could not have been more strictly pronounced within the limits of good neighborhood . 
If Mabel went out to ride , as she frequently did on Helen 's white pony , still a cherished favorite of its mistress , she was not unlikely to come back attended by their gallant neighbor ; and , on one occasion -- when she had accompanied Harry into the woods -- and been left by him in a shady retreat while he explored a more distant part of the forest , she was unexpectedly joined by Percival , who seated himself on the pine-strewn ground at her feet , caught up the book from which she had been reading , and conversed with her for nearly an hour upon literary themes , with the air of a man never more utterly at leisure to play the agreeable ; then mounting his horse , which had been fastened to a tree , rode off to meet a distant appointment , at the almost fearful rate of speed rendered unavoidable by his voluntary delay . 
With Madam Percival and Bessie , Mabel 's intercourse was necessarily much restricted by the intervening distance , which they could not ignore as Bayard did ; and except on one or two occasions , when Bessie drove over with her uncle and passed an evening , and once when Mabel accompanied Helen to return Madam Percival 's visit , there was , for a fortnight or more , no personal communication between the ladies of the two households . 
It was scarcely possible to realize any barrier of separation , however , so long as Bayard continued the medium of their reciprocal friendship ; and , although he often made his appearance under circumstances seemingly fortuitous , Mabel could not but consider him as in some sort the representative of her aged friend , and even attributed to her partiality many of those evidences of kindness and attention for which she was in reality indebted to him alone . 
If Helen , through the power of an exquisite tenderness , saw more than met the eye , and suspected far more than she saw -- that same tenderness forbade her , by word or look , to ruffle even the surface of Mabel 's feelings ; and remembering how , through long years , her own unspoken attachment to Harry had received a sister 's silent sympathy , she reverenced the heart 's sacred secrets , and guarded them as if they had been her own . 
And if Harry and Helen generously refrained from disturbing the quiet current of her thoughts , by so much as an embarrassing suggestion or whispered inuendo , Mabel was still less disposed to interpret in her own favor , those daily visits and civilities , which , however gratifying they might prove , she deemed a valued privilege of the common household . 
The time had been , when vanity and self-love would have lent a more flattering construction to anything so marked as Bayard 's evident partiality for the society which her brother 's house afforded . 
But the bitter experience of Mabel 's early womanhood , and the chastening influences of succeeding years , had effectually guarded her against the indulgence of vain and delusive imaginations ; and it was no part of her present character , to assume for herself any distinction , or claim for herself any especial title to regard . 
Thus , while every circumstance of their daily intercourse served to increase her esteem for Percival , and exhibit his personal and social traits in a new and attractive light , she never even dreamed of establishing any exclusive ascendancy over a heart which seemed to be world-wide in its benevolent sympathies . 
He might enter with animated and eager interest into her favorite studies and pursuits ; but was not this characteristic of him in whatever society he might be thrown ? 
He might omit no opportunity of rendering her a service ; but was not his simplicity of manner so tempered with chivalrous gallantry , that he would have done the same for the humblest of her sex ? 
He might express no slight anxiety concerning her health ; but could he do less in the case of one who was at once his friend 's sister and his mother 's friend ? 
It must be confessed , too , that although leaving it wholly to Bessie to avenge her cause , Mabel could not quite forget the unfavorable nature of Bayard 's early impressions concerning her . 
And if now and then she experienced a conscious sense of elation , at some involuntary tribute of praise from the truthful lips which were guiltless of flattery , the emotion was instantly checked by the thought , -- `` it is but an endeavor to atone for past censure , -- a confession wrung from him by a sense of justice . '' 
But while Mabel indulged no ideal visions of conquest or of power , and was innocent as a child of any attempt at influence or display , the friendship , which was the natural growth of gratitude and respect , became daily more and more an element of her being ; and , in an atmosphere free from every restraint , it was enjoyed without check or hindrance . 
Thus , it was with unaffected pleasure that she greeted Percival , with undisguised regret that she saw him depart ; and with confident , though serene anticipation , that she looked forward to his speedy return ; deriving calm enjoyment , meantime , in the society of Harry and Helen , entering cordially into all their interests and schemes , and never attempting to analyze the sources of that perfect contentment and repose , both of body and mind , which were gradually restoring her to her wonted health . 
One evening , Harry , who had been to the neighboring city , returned home at so late an hour that Mabel had already retired , and did not see him until the following morning , when they met at breakfast . 
`` I have news for you , May , '' said he , as she entered and took her seat at the table . 
His face was glowing with animation , and Mabel , observing it , eagerly inquired into the nature of the tidings . 
`` I hope he is a worthy subject of their enthusiasm , '' said Mabel . 
It would have been difficult to discover , amid the massmeeting of the day before , a more deeply interested and delighted countenance than that which Mabel turned upon her brother at this unexpected announcement . 
There was a dancing light in her eye , and a smile of proud satisfaction in her face , which fully expressed her sympathy with the vote of the people ; while her astonishment found expression in the words : `` Is it possible , Harry ? 
`` And you think his reply will be in the affirmative , '' asked Helen , while Mabel wore an earnest , thoughtful expression of countenance , but said nothing . 
`` If I know him in the least , '' said Mabel , with a firm and unhesitating air , `` he will go at any sacrifice . '' 
Mabel also looked up , and directly behind her , in the doorway , stood Percival , his face flushed with exercise , his riding boots bespattered with mud , his fine hair tossed back from his forehead , which was resting on his hand , as he stood leaning against the doorframe , -- and his eyes , now that she had turned her face , fixed full and expressively upon Mabel . 
And while Harry went to look for the address , and Helen ran to a cupboard in the next room for a cup and saucer , he approached Mabel , who , in her confusion , had forgotten to even bid him good-morning , and said , at the same time taking her hand : `` I trust you are not displeased , Miss Mabel , at my overhearing your remark ; if I had one doubt left in regard to my duty , you have laid it at rest ; and believe me , I will endeavor not to disappoint your kind confidence , for which I am the more deeply grateful , that it is far beyond my deserts . 
`` I should not have spoken with such decision if I had known by whom I was overheard , '' said Mabel , with a smile , which , though embarrassed , denoted anything but displeasure ; `` still , I am not disposed to retract . '' 
`` Mabel , '' exclaimed Harry , laughing heartily as he sat down to finish his breakfast , `` I think the convention should assemble once more , and tender you public thanks for the spur you have given to their future representative . 
But whether this prophecy of Harry 's was made with playful irony , or in all seriousness , its falsehood was not long in being proved ; for while he canvassed the county , and brought home daily reports of Percival 's universal popularity and undoubted triumph , and Mabel indulged prophetic visions of his future eminence and usefulness in a public career , the young man himself , after writing his letter of acceptance , appeared to give himself no further thought in the matter ; but , leaving the fortunes of his election in the hands of his constituents , devoted himself with increasing assiduity to those other pleasures and cares , which had their source and centre , not in the field of political agitation , but in the domestic circle of his friends . 
Mabel seemed a little embarrassed at the idea of this change in the family plans ; and the boys ' faces were full of eager expectancy and doubt . 
According to an agreement entered into in anticipation of a snow-storm , Bayard drove over in the morning , in a covered vehicle which had been put on runners the previous winter for his mother 's convenience , and returned with Sabiah , Mr. Vaughan , and Helen , while Mabel , now restored to her usual health , accompanied Harry and the boys in an open sleigh ; and all were borne rapidly over the level prairie , to the cheerful sound of bells . 
In front of the sofa stood Mabel , her beautiful face lit up with the fire-light , while she entertained her aunt with a spirited account of the afternoon 's proceedings ; Alick on one side , assisting her to deliver with faithfulness , a torrent of respectful messages , of which Lydia had made her the bearer ; and Murray , leaning over the arm of the sofa , and now and then aiding the interest of the narrative by his graphic and witty allusions . 
And while Sabiah listened attentively , and uttered many an ejaculation of astonishment , at Lydia 's good fortune , Bessie , on her part , was exciting the gratified smiles of Mr. Vaughan and Madam Percival , as she recounted with that spice of playful exaggeration for which every one knew how to make allowance , the simple honors , which , in connection with the christening , had been paid to Mabel , Bayard , and the boys , quite to the exclusion , as she declared , of Mr. and Mrs. Harry Vaughan and herself . 
Harry and Percival , in the meantime , were stationed outside the rest of the group , in the recess of a window , the latter divided between his close observance of Mabel 's varying expression and his attempt to explain to Harry the principles of a new reaping machine , just invented by Mr. John Hope , and for which the ingenious young man was about to take out a patent . 
Yes , strangely enough , while every one else was emboldened or inspired to some characteristic expression of delight , Mabel , hitherto zealous in her friendly partizanship , seemed to be suddenly struck dumb . 
Once , indeed , as Bayard 's unsatisfied eye wandered round the little circle , it met hers , fixed full upon him , with an eloquent , answering glance ; but her heart drooped as she encountered his earnest gaze , and the next moment the whole face was hidden from him , as she hastily withdrew into the shadow afforded by her brother 's tall figure . 
Both the silence and the quick retreat were involuntary , however ; and if this apparent coolness and reserve were painful to Percival -- they were no less so to Mabel herself . 
For a few moments , indeed , she had stood , intently watching the countenance of the young man , as he received the congratulations of the rest , quite forgetful that some similar demonstration might be expected on her own part ; nor was it until she encountered his searching glance that the consciousness flashed upon her , that she had as yet given no expression to her sympathy in the universal joy . 
She would then gladly have repaired the omission ; but the very intensity of her emotions checked and forbade their utterance . 
There was a quick beating of the heart , which she found it impossible to subdue ; and her instinctive retreat , beyond the outermost edge of the little circle , was but the natural impulse of a sensitive mind , which shrank from betraying its own unseasonable and vexatious embarrassment . 
Here , secure from observation , she strove to recover her composure ; nervously watching a favorable opportunity for addressing the hero of the occasion , and vainly endeavoring to frame her thoughts into suitable words . 
But while she thus waited and delayed , a new turn was given to affairs , Bayard was suddenly summoned from the room and the opportunity was lost . 
In a retired corner , a little apart from the rest , Mabel mused with her own thoughts , and gave ear to the occasional dialogues which took place around her , seriously vexed , meanwhile , at her own inability to assume a natural and unconstrained air , and wondering whether , in the general excitement , her own individual deportment had been observed and commented on . 
No observation could be more critical or severe , however , than that which she exercised over herself . 
was her inward interrogatory . 
Indeed , she could not answer the question satisfactorily even to herself . 
She would have given worlds , had they been at her disposal , rather than that Bayard should suffer a defeat . 
Perhaps she realized more than others the responsibility that rested upon the young man -- the bias that was to be given to his whole future life . 
Perhaps she took into the account , that it was an event not merely of private , but of national interest . 
Why , otherwise , should she have experienced that quick beating of the heart which effectually forbade her utterance ? 
Yes , she was glad , very glad , that was a question which did not admit of a doubt . 
But she could not speak so lightly as the rest did on a matter of such grave concern -- she could not so readily subdue the emotions which an event of such serious moment was calculated to excite . 
thought Mabel , as , while she watched Madam Percival 's face , she felt her own heart swell with a pride none the less deep , and far more ardent than that which now sent a sudden glow to the aged woman 's cheek . 
Perhaps they were none the less generous , none the less sincere , that another , and in some degree , rival emotion , now and then asserted itself , and was only kept down by the vehemence and resolution with which Mabel strove to convince herself that the occasion was one of perfect and unqualified satisfaction . 
She did not need her father 's suggestion , to remind her that private pleasures may sometimes clash with public duties ; for the thought had flashed upon her in the very moment of Bayard 's victory . 
Reason proudly answered in the negative ; but a pang shot through her heart at the question ; a sigh was the only audible answer ; and while joy sat on her countenance , her spirits waged an inward war . 
exclaimed Murray , approaching the spot where she sat , and speaking in a tone of exultation . 
thought Mabel , as through the open door , by which the boys left the room , she heard the indistinct murmur of voices , and pictured to herself the animated scene . 
Such were Mabel 's sentiments ; the only sentiments , at least , which she acknowledged , or of which she was distinctly conscious . 
Why then that undefined sadness which crept over her , as she mentally contrasted the partially deserted drawing-room with the well-filled apartment at the other extreme of the house , where Percival gave reception to his political guests ? 
Why that distinct remembrance which darted into her mind , of her aunt Sabiah 's late denunciation of men engaged in public life , and her assertion of its proverbial effect in weakening social sympathies and ties ? 
Why the restless tapping of her little foot on the carpet as she impatiently awaited the departure of the district committee , and the sense of weariness and discontent with which she mentally ejaculated -- `` How long they stay ! '' 
-- then secretly glanced at her watch , adding , as she did so , `` only eight o'clock ! 
These latter shades of feeling were , however , but an undercurrent , and were outwardly veiled by her usual calm and cheerful demeanor , to which she had been restored almost immediately upon Bayard 's leaving the room ; nor , whatever might be the source of her secret uneasiness , could it be attributed to any conscious yearning for the society of the absentees ; for when , at length , the gentlemen from the city took their departure , and Bayard and Harry hastened back to the drawing-room , she seemed disconcerted rather than gratified by their presence , and lost no time in ensconcing herself behind the tea-table , in one corner of the apartment . 
Here , she begged from Madam Percival the privilege of making tea for the company , an office which she performed in silence and with methodical precision ; nor did she leave her place of retreat until Percival was seated at the piano in the adjoining library , and nearly all the rest had resorted thither for the enjoyment of some music . 
Mabel meanwhile , still courting seclusion , had entered the room with a noiseless step and seated herself in an ample bay window at the extremity of the apartment , in which sheltered nook , partially screened by some heavy old-fashoned draperies , she might enjoy the music undisturbed . 
Her attitude was scarcely that of a gratified listener , however , as she sat gazing fixedly out on the smooth shining surface of snow , and now and then pressing her aching head against the cool glass . 
Once or twice , indeed , she might have been seen to start , as if the chorus of a joyous glee grated harshly on her feelings ; but with these exceptions , she seemed scarcely conscious of the protracted concert save as it afforded her a welcome opportunity of undisturbed thought and repose . 
At length there was a pause in the music and Mabel , although insensible to the ordinary conversation which had been going on around her , distinctly heard Harry remark to his friend , -- `` we shall miss you sadly , Percival , this winter . 
The last word only reached Mabel 's attentive ear . 
It struck cold upon her heart . 
Involuntarily she repeated it to herself . 
It seemed to give form and shape to those vague and undefined emotions which she could not comprehend and would fain have crushed . 
was the thought which forced itself upon her -- `` the flat has gone forth , and he must obey the call without hesitation and without delay . 
`` It is true he goes on a noble errand ; he will serve the cause of humanity and the best interests of his country ; he will give her his time , his efforts , his affections ; he will meet with a just reward ; he will be honest , beloved and happy ; but we -- '' Alas , she could deceive herself no longer . 
Exultant , proud , and thankful she might endeavor to be in this his hour of triumph ; but she could not be blind to the fact , that the shadow which his departure would fling upon all nature was reflected most deeply on her own heart ; that others might regret the absence of a friend , but that for her , the sun of her life would be gone down . 
As thus painfully self-engrossed she peered tremblingly into that night of the spirit , which was threatening to overtake her , she failed to observe that the library had become well-nigh deserted of its occupants , who one by one had received their meed of satisfaction from the music and had returned to the drawing-room . 
The organ still gave forth the soft , long-drawn strains of a beautiful symphony , and the pathetic minor tones , keeping pace with her train of thought , were listened to almost unconsciously . 
Not until they were suddenly brought to a close , therefore , and a solemn silence succeeded did she become aware that Helen , who , overcome by the music , had been the last to leave the room , had inadvertently closed the door behind her ; that the candles attached to the organ were extinguished , and she and the organist were the sole inmates of the quiet library , now lit only by the pale light of the moon , which was streaming through the window at which she sat . 
There was a tremulous depth to his voice as he thus spoke , such as Mabel had never heard in it before . 
It almost startled her . 
She felt his eye fixed piercingly upon her ; but , without daring now to look up and meet it , she faltered out , `` Harry said it would cost you a sacrifice . '' 
replied Mabel ; and then added , hesitatingly , and scarcely knowing what she said , `` I -- I wish you every thing that is good . '' 
She answered only by looking timidly , anxiously up at him ; then her glance wandered quickly round the room , as if she meditated making her escape . 
`` Yes , let this be my confessional , '' said Bayard , his words following fast upon one another , as if he understood her intention and would not be frustrated in his own purpose . 
said Mabel , breathing more freely , while a pensive smile overspread her face , as memory , which had failed to treasure up the wrongs of that eventful evening , led her back to the contemplation of the never-to-be-forgotten benefits which Bayard had generously rendered her in her hour of need . 
`` Mr. Percival , '' said Mabel , her calmness partially restored , as she saw how much Bayard was moved , `` you wrong yourself and me , when you waste so much regret on words spoken at random , and forgiven , I assure you , as promptly as they were truly atoned for . 
Her voice shook and quivered as she uttered the last syllable ; and , once more impelled to take refuge in flight , she sprang from her seat and would have darted from the room . 
Something in her manner had led him to anticipate the movement , and , starting up , he caught her by the hand . 
`` Stay , Mabel -- stay , '' cried he , in a voice of deep emotion , while the eyes , usually so mild and gentle , seemed to emit a burning light as he fixed them full on hers . 
She stopped short -- mute , transfixed , and statue-like . 
There was something awful and impressive in the agitation of this strong man , usually so calm and self-possessed ; and Mabel 's heart almost ceased to beat , as she observed how his broad chest heaved , and his lips refused to give utterance to the thoughts which were working within . 
But when they came at last , those words of pathos and of power , they seemed to sweep through all the chambers of her soul , penetrating to the very seat of her life , and telling of a love as mighty and strong as the heart that had conceived it was elevated and noble . 
With all the simplicity and ardor of youth , with all the eloquence and force of mature manhood , did he plead his cause , pouring into her ear the story of a deep and true affection , which had implanted itself in the fibres of his nature more than six years before , and had silently and secretly taken root in the generous soil , to expand and blossom at last in the sunshine of her presence and her smiles . 
`` I have loved my Western home with a boyish enthusiasm , '' exclaimed he , at length , as having poured forth the tale of his hopes and fears , he scanned her colorless features , and in their marble-like pallor and rigidity could not as yet read his answer . 
Still , I could have broken away at the call of duty ; I could have looked even exile cheerfully in the face , and dared fortune to do her worst , glorying in my native strength . 
O Mabel ! '' 
`` O Mabel ! 
The heart which had seemed to stand still , while Bayard unfolded , with passionate fervor , the indwelling secret of his strong love , vibrated with sudden motion as his impetuous words thus gave place to low , half-whispered entreaty ; the blood which had seemed to ebb away in a cold , stagnant stream , rushed back in a warm , living current , and the long suppressed , subdued , and hidden emotion of Mabel 's soul was stirred into sudden life . 
It was no blind sentiment , -- no transient preference , which thus lay treasured in the inmost recesses of her being ; it was a holy and pure affection , born of gratitude , nursed by time , strengthened by respect , and perfected by that union of habit , principle , thought , and feeling , which moulds two hearts into one . 
It lay deep , and she had concealed it well ; so well , that until now she herself had suspected but half its power . 
She felt it in the trembling agitation which , commencing within , vibrated through her whole frame , until she tottered where she stood ; she betrayed it in the hot , rushing tide which suffused her neck , her cheek , her brow , with crimson , and tingled to her fingers ' ends . 
She could not speak , but she laid the hand that was free on the hand which Bayard still firmly held ; he clasped them both in his , and was answered . 
The nervous agitation which caused her to tremble like an aspen leaf , was subdued and tranquilized as she felt herself folded in his strong embrace ; and the heart which had been schooled by experience , purified by suffering , and ennobled by patient endurance , realized that it had found at last its true , its perfect earthly rest . 
And what did they all say when Mabel 's engagement was announced ? 
Murray went to look for her , being anxious that she should witness a brilliant aurora which was visible in the north , but returned to say , that he feared Aunt Mabel had a headache , as she did not open her room door , but begged him to excuse her to Madam Percival and the rest of the company . 
Mabel sprang up and threw her arms round her dear , respected friend . 
`` Oh , the blessing , '' exclaimed she , with tearful eyes , `` of knowing , for the first time within my recollection , what it is to claim a mother 's love ! '' 
You are mine by adoption , no less than by his choice ; it is sweet to me to feel that my affections went out instinctively to meet the daughter soon to become mine by a most holy tie ; '' and once more pressing Mabel to her bosom , she hastened from the room , to recover the composure which this interview had sensibly disturbed . 
`` Come with me , '' said Mabel to Bayard , who had been pacing up and down the hall , just outside her door , and was , consequently , the first person whom she met when she left her room . 
The old gentleman was an early riser , and , as Mabel had anticipated , was up , and sitting alone in front of the library fire . 
Mabel went behind his chair and whispered in his ear . 
He looked round at her , half incredulously , then bestowed an earnest , inquiring glance on Percival . 
Though Harry addressed himself to Bayard , his look of affection was fixed on Mabel , whom he drew towards him as he finished speaking , and clasped in a fraternal embrace . 
`` I hope you will both be as happy as we are , Mabel dear , '' whispered Helen , who had followed her husband into the room . 
`` Mabel has forgiven me , '' said Percival . 
Alick scanned Percival 's face with as keen and anxious a serutiny as if he would have pierced to his very soul , kissed Mabel impulsively , rushed from the room and -LRB- he was sixteen years old , and a tall boy for his age , but , nevertheless , it must be confessed -RRB- he wept . 
`` Well , now , '' said Sabiah , whom Mabel sought , and informed privately of the event , `` you do n't mean so ! 
Why , you never saw him more than half a dozen times in your life , -- did you , Mabel ? '' 
Mabel confessed the frequency with which they had met during her visit at Harry 's . 
Mr. Vaughan and his family had been now for some weeks re-established in their home , and Mabel , who , amid manifold cares and occupations , had secured one half hour of leisure , had seated herself for the last time at her little desk , in front of the familiar window which commanded a view of the wide-spreading prairie . 
For a moment or two Mabel retained a thoughtful attitude , with her head resting on her hand , her eyes now straying over the wide wintry landscape without , now fixed with tender interest upon the picture of serene repose within the room ; then taking up a pen , she bent over her desk and wrote the following letter : -- `` Dear Mrs. Herbert : -- When I look back to the days of my childhood , there ever arises before me the image of one dear friend , whose tender love and devoted care made it a blessed and happy portion of my life , on which memory loves to dwell . 
In that hour of sweet anticipation and happy imagining , fancy might well robe the future in its fairest colorings , but the hope expressed in the latter clause of Mabel 's letter , was , nevertheless , destined to disappointment . 
Not many weeks after the receipt of these welcome tidings from her beloved pupil , Mrs. Herbert met the great summons which awaits all the living , and when Mabel , at length , visited the home of her childhood , it was but to weep over the grave of this early friend . 
Not less vain too , was her fond trust , that change of climate and scene might tend to strengthen and prolong the life of her venerable parent . 
`` J -- , an old class-mate of his , gave Mabel and myself , last winter , a truly pitiable account of his condition . 
The schemes and plans which had wearied the brain of the hoary man , and the failure of which had well-nigh broken his heart , were at length brought to a successful fulfilment , without the aid of his mediation ; and the waste lands of the wilderness became , in time , a noble patrimony to Harry , the young Leroys , and Mabel . 
Not , however , until Harry 's good resolutions , his firm self-control , his patient industry , had been tested by years of privation and labor ; not until Alick and Murray , one in classical pursuits , and the other in more practical studies , had won their meed of praise , nobly resisting the temptations of youth and laboring with the ardor inspired by necessity and self-dependence ; not until Mabel , amid the cares which she assumed as a wife , and the responsibilities attendant upon a new scene of action , had proved herself worthy of a man whose aims were as exalted as his life was useful ; and not until her noble husband had found , amid competence and frugality , a happiness to which money could bring no increase , and had earned among his fellow-men a high and honorable position to which wealth could add no dignity . 
To follow Mabel in her after career would be to anticipate the future . 
Her lot is but that of humanity ; and time , while it serves to ripen and perfect her joys , must bring with it changes , anxieties , and sorrows . 
It may lead her through pleasant and flowery paths ; it may call her to mount the hill of difficulty , and drink the bitter waters of afflication ; but may we not have faith to believe , that every circumstance and every change will serve to minister to her final peace , and that earth 's short pilgrimage will prove the pathway to an eternal rest ? 
Yes , to her , as to all who early learn life 's holiest lesson , pleasure is hencefoth sanctified , anxiety relieved , and pain and disappointment robbed of their bitterest sting ; while , alike amid the sunshine and the storm , the purifled heart sees God , -- sees Him not only as the Almighty Judge , but as the Infinite Father , the source whence all those sweet affections flow which illume , and strengthen , and redeem the world : and seeing Him , believes that all the varied dispensations of His providence are alike good , since all flow from the hands of One who afflicts but in mercy , who wounds but to heal , and who , amid all life 's varied discipline , is ever proving to the eye of Faith that His banner over us is Love . 
