They consulted their village priest , and the result was , that Elizabeth Lavenza became the inmate of my parents ' house -- my more than sister -- the beautiful and adored companion of all my occupations and my pleasures . 
Every one loved Elizabeth . 
The passionate and almost reverential attachment with which all regarded her became , while I shared it , my pride and my delight . 
On the evening previous to her being brought to my home , my mother had said playfully , -- `` I have a pretty present for my Victor -- to-morrow he shall have it . '' 
And when , on the morrow , she presented Elizabeth to me as her promised gift , I , with childish seriousness , interpreted her words literally , and looked upon Elizabeth as mine -- mine to protect , love , and cherish . 
All praises bestowed on her , I received as made to a possession of my own . 
No word , no expression could body forth the kind of relation in which she stood to me -- my more than sister , since till death she was to be mine only . 
Elizabeth was of a calmer and more concentrated disposition ; but , with all my ardour , I was capable of a more intense application , and was more deeply smitten with the thirst for knowledge . 
She busied herself with following the aerial creations of the poets ; and in the majestic and wondrous scenes which surrounded our Swiss home -- the sublime shapes of the mountains ; the changes of the seasons ; tempest and calm ; the silence of winter , and the life and turbulence of our Alpine summers , -- she found ample scope for admiration and delight . 
The saintly soul of Elizabeth shone like a shrine-dedicated lamp in our peaceful home . 
Her sympathy was ours ; her smile , her soft voice , the sweet glance of her celestial eyes , were ever there to bless and animate us . 
She was the living spirit of love to soften and attract : I might have become sullen in my study , rough through the ardour of my nature , but that she was there to subdue me to a semblance of her own gentleness . 
-- yet he might not have been so perfectly humane , so thoughtful in his generosity -- so full of kindness and tenderness amidst his passion for adventurous exploit , had she not unfolded to him the real loveliness of beneficence , and made the doing good the end and aim of his soaring ambition . 
Elizabeth had caught the scarlet fever ; her illness was severe , and she was in the greatest danger . 
During her illness , many arguments had been urged to persuade my mother to refrain from attending upon her . 
She had , at first , yielded to our entreaties ; but when she heard that the life of her favourite was menaced , she could no longer control her anxiety . 
She attended her sick bed , -- her watchful attentions triumphed over the malignity of the distemper , -- Elizabeth was saved , but the consequences of this imprudence were fatal to her preserver . 
On the third day my mother sickened ; her fever was accompanied by the most alarming symptoms , and the looks of her medical attendants prognosticated the worst event . 
On her death-bed the fortitude and benignity of this best of women did not desert her . 
She joined the hands of Elizabeth and myself : -- `` My children , '' she said , `` my firmest hopes of future happiness were placed on the prospect of your union . 
Elizabeth , my love , you must supply my place to my younger children . 
She died calmly ; and her countenance expressed affection even in death . 
It is so long before the mind can persuade itself that she , whom we saw every day , and whose very existence appeared a part of our own , can have departed for ever -- that the brightness of a beloved eye can have been extinguished , and the sound of a voice so familiar , and dear to the ear , can be hushed , never more to be heard . 
I was unwilling to quit the sight of those that remained to me ; and , above all , I desired to see my sweet Elizabeth in some degree consoled . 
She indeed veiled her grief , and strove to act the comforter to us all . 
She looked steadily on life , and assumed its duties with courage and zeal . 
She devoted herself to those whom she had been taught to call her uncle and cousins . 
Never was she so enchanting as at this time , when she recalled the sunshine of her smiles and spent them upon us . 
She forgot even her own regret in her endeavours to make us forget . 
It was said ; and we retired under the pretence of seeking repose , each fancying that the other was deceived : but when at morning 's dawn I descended to the carriage which was to convey me away , they were all there -- my father again to bless me , Clerval to press my hand once more , my Elizabeth to renew her entreaties that I would write often , and to bestow the last feminine attentions on her playmate and friend . 
I loved my brothers , Elizabeth , and Clerval ; these were `` old familiar faces ; '' but I believed myself totally unfitted for the company of strangers . 
I thought I saw Elizabeth , in the bloom of health , walking in the streets of Ingolstadt . 
Delighted and surprised , I embraced her ; but as I imprinted the first kiss on her lips , they became livid with the hue of death ; her features appeared to change , and I thought that I held the corpse of my dead mother in my arms ; a shroud enveloped her form , and I saw the grave-worms crawling in the folds of the flannel . 
Nothing could equal my delight on seeing Clerval ; his presence brought back to my thoughts my father , Elizabeth , and all those scenes of home so dear to my recollection . 
`` It gives me the greatest delight to see you ; but tell me how you left my father , brothers , and Elizabeth . '' 
I afterwards learned that , knowing my father 's advanced age , and unfitness for so long a journey , and how wretched my sickness would make Elizabeth , he spared them this grief by concealing the extent of my disorder . 
It was from my own Elizabeth : -- `` My dearest Cousin , `` You have been ill , very ill , and even the constant letters of dear kind Henry are not sufficient to reassure me on your account . 
`` Elizabeth Lavenza . 
`` Dear , dear Elizabeth ! '' 
I exclaimed , when I had read her letter , `` I will write instantly , and relieve them from the anxiety they must feel . '' 
`` This account rather alarmed us , and we continued to search for him until night fell , when Elizabeth conjectured that he might have returned to the house . 
We returned again , with torches ; for I could not rest , when I thought that my sweet boy had lost himself , and was exposed to all the damps and dews of night ; Elizabeth also suffered extreme anguish . 
`` He was conveyed home , and the anguish that was visible in my countenance betrayed the secret to Elizabeth . 
She was very earnest to see the corpse . 
At first I attempted to prevent her ; but she persisted , and entering the room where it lay , hastily examined the neck of the victim , and clasping her hands exclaimed , ` O God ! 
`` She fainted , and was restored with extreme difficulty . 
When she again lived , it was only to weep and sigh . 
She told me , that that same evening William had teased her to let him wear a very valuable miniature that she possessed of your mother . 
`` Come , dearest Victor ; you alone can console Elizabeth . 
She weeps continually , and accuses herself unjustly as the cause of his death ; her words pierce my heart . 
You come to us now to share a misery which nothing can alleviate ; yet your presence will , I hope , revive our father , who seems sinking under his misfortune ; and your persuasions will induce poor Elizabeth to cease her vain and tormenting self-accusations . 
`` She most of all , '' said Ernest , `` requires consolation ; she accused herself of having caused the death of my brother , and that made her very wretched . 
No one would believe it at first ; and even now Elizabeth will not be convinced , notwithstanding all the evidence . 
We were soon joined by Elizabeth . 
Time had altered her since I last beheld her ; it had endowed her with loveliness surpassing the beauty of her childish years . 
She welcomed me with the greatest affection . 
`` Your arrival , my dear cousin , '' said she , `` fills me with hope . 
`` She is innocent , my Elizabeth , '' said I , `` and that shall be proved ; fear nothing , but let your spirits be cheered by the assurance of her acquittal . '' 
every one else believes in her guilt , and that made me wretched , for I knew that it was impossible : and to see every one else prejudiced in so deadly a manner rendered me hopeless and despairing . '' 
She wept . 
The picture was then produced , which the servant had found in her pocket ; and when Elizabeth , in a faltering voice , proved that it was the same which , an hour before the child had been missed , she had placed round his neck , a murmur of horror and indignation filled the court . 
She then related that , by the permission of Elizabeth , she had passed the evening of the night on which the murder had been committed at the house of an aunt at Chêne , a village situated at about a league from Geneva . 
Elizabeth saw even this last resource , her excellent dispositions and irreproachable conduct , about to fail the accused , when , although violently agitated , she desired permission to address the court . 
`` I am , '' said she , `` the cousin of the unhapphy child who was murdered , or rather his sister , for I was educated by , and have lived with his parents ever since and even long before , his birth . 
A murmur of approbation followed Elizabeth 's simple and powerful appeal ; but it was excited by her generous interference , and not in favour of poor Justine , on whom the public indignation was turned with renewed violence , charging her with the blackest ingratitude . 
She herself wept as Elizabeth spoke , but she did not answer . 
I believed in her innocence ; I knew it . 
The tortures of the accused did not equal mine ; she was sustained by innocence , but the fangs of remorse tore my bosom , and would not forego their hold . 
I hastened to return home , and Elizabeth eagerly demanded the result . 
This was a dire blow to poor Elizabeth , who had relied with firmness upon Justine 's innocence . 
`` Yes , '' said Elizabeth , `` I will go , although she is guilty ; and you , Victor , shall accompany me : I can not go alone . '' 
She rose on seeing us enter ; and when we were left alone with her , she threw herself at the feet of Elizabeth , weeping bitterly . 
said she , `` why did you rob me of my last consolation ? 
Her voice was suffocated with sobs . 
`` Rise , my poor girl , '' said Elizabeth , `` why do you kneel , if you are innocent ? 
She paused , weeping , and then continued -- `` I thought with horror , my sweet lady , that you should believe your Justine , whom your blessed aunt had so highly honoured , and whom you loved , was a creature capable of a crime which none but the devil himself could have perpetrated . 
`` No , Justine , '' said Elizabeth ; `` he is more convinced of your innocence than I was ; for even when he heard that you had confessed , he did not credit it . '' 
She indeed gained the resignation she desired . 
Elizabeth also wept , and was unhappy ; but her 's also was the misery of innocence , which , like a cloud that passes over the fair moon , for a while hides but can not tarnish its brightness . 
We stayed several hours with Justine ; and it was with great difficulty that Elizabeth could tear herself away . 
`` I wish , '' cried she , `` that I were to die with you ; I can not live in this world of misery . '' 
She embraced Elizabeth , and said , in a voice of half-suppressed emotion , `` Farewell , sweet lady , dearest Elizabeth , my beloved and only friend ; may Heaven , in its bounty , bless and preserve you ; may this be the last misfortune that you will ever suffer ! 
Elizabeth 's heart-rending eloquence failed to move the judges from their settled conviction in the criminality of the saintly sufferer . 
From the tortures of my own heart , I turned to contemplate the deep and voiceless grief of my Elizabeth . 
But I was restrained , when I thought of the heroic and suffering Elizabeth , whom I tenderly loved , and whose existence was bound up in mine . 
Elizabeth was sad and desponding ; she no longer took delight in her ordinary occupations ; all pleasure seemed to her sacrilege toward the dead ; eternal woe and tears she then thought was the just tribute she should pay to innocence so blasted and destroyed . 
She was no longer that happy creature , who in earlier youth wandered with me on the banks of the lake , and talked with ecstasy of our future prospects . 
The first of those sorrows which are sent to wean us from the earth , had visited her , and its dimming influence quenched her dearest smiles . 
`` When I reflect , my dear cousin , '' said she , `` on the miserable death of Justine Moritz , I no longer see the world and its works as they before appeared to me . 
Elizabeth read my anguish in my countenance , and kindly taking my hand , said , `` My dearest friend , you must calm yourself . 
And could not such words from her whom I fondly prized before every other gift of fortune , suffice to chase away the fiend that lurked in my heart ? 
Even as she spoke I drew near to her , as if in terror ; lest at that very moment the destroyer had been near to rob me of her . 
I trembled violently at his exordium , and my father continued -- `` I confess , my son , that I have always looked forward to your marriage with our dear Elizabeth as the tie of our domestic comfort , and the stay of my declining years . 
You , perhaps , regard her as your sister , without any wish that she might become your wife . 
Nay , you may have met with another whom you may love ; and , considering yourself as bound in honour to Elizabeth , this struggle may occasion the poignant misery which you appear to feel . '' 
I never saw any woman who excited , as Elizabeth does , my warmest admiration and affection . 
to me the idea of an immediate union with my Elizabeth was one of horror and dismay . 
Without previously communicating with me , he had , in concert with Elizabeth , arranged that Clerval should join me at Strasburgh . 
To England , therefore , I was bound , and it was understood that my union with Elizabeth should take place immediately on my return . 
For myself , there was one reward I promised myself from my detested toils -- one consolation for my unparalleled sufferings ; it was the prospect of that day when , enfranchised from my miserable slavery , I might claim Elizabeth , and forget the past in my union with her . 
My journey had been my own suggestion , and Elizabeth , therefore , acquiesced : but she was filled with disquiet at the idea of my suffering , away from her , the inroads of misery and grief . 
It had been her care which provided me a companion in Clerval -- and yet a man is blind to a thousand minute circumstances , which call forth a woman 's sedulous attention . 
I waited for my letters with feverish impatience : if they were delayed , I was miserable , and overcome by a thousand fears ; and when they arrived , and I saw the superscription of Elizabeth or my father , I hardly dared to read and ascertain my fate . 
The prospect did not move me to fear ; yet when I thought of my beloved Elizabeth , -- of her tears and endless sorrow , when she should find her lover so barbarously snatched from her , -- tears , the first I had shed for many months , streamed from my eyes , and I resolved not to fall before my enemy without a bitter struggle . 
I thought of Elizabeth , of my father , and of Clerval ; all left behind , on whom the monster might satisfy his sanguinary and merciless passions . 
I stretched out my hand to him , and cried -- `` Are you then safe -- and Elizabeth -- and Ernest ? '' 
He talked of Geneva , which I should soon visit -- of Elizabeth and Ernest ; but these words only drew deep groans from me . 
A few days before we left Paris on our way to Switzerland , I received the following letter from Elizabeth : -- `` My dear Friend , `` It gave me the greatest pleasure to receive a letter from my uncle dated at Paris ; you are no longer at a formidable distance , and I may hope to see you in less than a fortnight . 
you may possibly say ; what can Elizabeth have to explain ? 
`` Elizabeth Lavenza . 
Such would be my liberty , except that in my Elizabeth I possessed a treasure ; alas ! 
Sweet and beloved Elizabeth ! 
I read and re-read her letter , and some softened feelings stole into my heart , and dared to whisper paradisiacal dreams of love and joy ; but the apple was already eaten , and the angel 's arm bared to drive me from all hope . 
Yet I would die to make her happy . 
In this state of mind I wrote to Elizabeth . 
I have one secret , Elizabeth , a dreadful one ; when revealed to you , it will chill your frame with horror , and then , far from being surprised at my misery , you will only wonder that I survive what I have endured . 
In about a week after the arrival of Elizabeth 's letter , we returned to Geneva . 
Elizabeth alone had the power to draw me from these fits ; her gentle voice would soothe me when transported by passion , and inspire me with human feelings when sunk in torpor . 
She wept with me , and for me . 
When reason returned , she would remonstrate , and endeavour to inspire me with resignation . 
Soon after my arrival , my father spoke of my immediate marriage with Elizabeth . 
I love Elizabeth , and look forward to our union with delight . 
But death was no evil to me , if the loss of Elizabeth were balanced with it ; and I therefore , with a contented and even cheerful countenance , agreed with my father , that if my cousin would consent , the ceremony should take place in ten days , and thus put , as I imagined , the seal to my fate . 
But I concealed my feelings by an appearance of hilarity , that brought smiles and joy to the countenance of my father , but hardly deceived the everwatchful and nicer eye of Elizabeth . 
She looked forward to our union with placid contentment , not unmingled with a little fear , which past misfortunes had impressed , that what now appeared certain and tangible happiness , might soon dissipate into an airy dream , and leave no trace but deep and everlasting regret . 
Through my father 's exertions , a part of the inheritance of Elizabeth had been restored to her by the Austrian government . 
A small possession on the shores of Como belonged to her . 
Elizabeth seemed happy ; my tranquil demeanour contributed greatly to calm her mind . 
But on the day that was to fulfil my wishes and my destiny , she was melancholy , and a presentiment of evil pervaded her ; and perhaps also she thought of the dreadful secret which I had promised to reveal to her on the following day . 
After the ceremony was performed , a large party assembled at my father 's ; but it was agreed that Elizabeth and I should commence our journey by water , sleeping that night at Evian , and continuing our voyage on the following day . 
I took the hand of Elizabeth : `` You are sorrowful , my love . 
`` Be happy , my dear Victor , '' replied Elizabeth ; `` there is , I hope , nothing to distress you ; and be assured that if a lively joy is not painted in my face , my heart is contented . 
Thus Elizabeth endeavoured to divert her thoughts and mine from all reflection upon melancholy subjects . 
But her temper was fluctuating ; joy for a few instants shone in her eyes , but it continually gave place to distraction and reverie . 
Elizabeth observed my agitation for some time in timid and fearful silence ; but there was something in my glance which communicated terror to her , and trembling she asked , `` What is it that agitates you , my dear Victor ? 
It came from the room into which Elizabeth had retired . 
She was there , lifeless and inanimate , thrown across the bed , her head hanging down , and her pale and distorted features half covered by her hair . 
Every where I turn I see the same figure -- her bloodless arms and relaxed form flung by the murderer on its bridal bier . 
I escaped from them to the room where lay the body of Elizabeth , my love , my wife , so lately living , so dear , so worthy . 
I rushed towards her , and embraced her with ardour ; but the deadly languor and coldness of the limbs told me , that what I now held in my arms had ceased to be the Elizabeth whom I had loved and cherished . 
The murderous mark of the fiend 's grasp was on her neck , and the breath had ceased to issue from her lips . 
While I still hung over her in the agony of despair , I happened to look up . 
A grin was on the face of the monster ; he seemed to jeer , as with his fiendish finger he pointed towards the corpse of my wife . 
I rushed towards the window , and drawing a pistol from my bosom , fired ; but he eluded me , leaped from his station , and , running with the swiftness of lightning , plunged into the lake . 
I pointed to the spot where he had disappeared , and we followed the track with boats ; nets were cast , but in vain . 
The rain had ceased for a moment , and I saw the fish play in the waters as they had done a few hours before ; they had then been observed by Elizabeth . 
his eyes wandered in vacancy , for they had lost their charm and their delight -- his Elizabeth , his more than daughter , whom he doated on with all that affection which a man feels , who in the decline of life , having few affections , clings more earnestly to those that remain . 
As night approached , I found myself at the entrance of the cemetery where William , Elizabeth , and my father reposed . 
During the day I was sustained and inspirited by the hope of night : for in sleep I saw my friends , my wife , and my beloved country ; again I saw the benevolent countenance of my father , heard the silver tones of my Elizabeth 's voice , and beheld Clerval enjoying health and youth . 
Never will I give up my search , until he or I perish ; and then with what ecstasy shall I join my Elizabeth , and my departed friends , who even now prepare for me the reward of my tedious toil and horrible pilgrimage ! 
Hear him not ; call on the manes of William , Justine , Clerval , Elizabeth , my father , and of the wretched Victor , and thrust your sword into his heart . 
Can any man be to me as Clerval was ; or any woman another Elizabeth ? 
But I enjoyed friends , dear not only through habit and association , but from their own merits ; and wherever I am , the soothing voice of my Elizabeth , and the conversation of Clerval , will be ever whispered in my ear . 
