In an old family mansion , situated on an estate in Gloucestershire known by the name of Rosevalley , resided Mrs. Mowbray , and Adeline her only child . 
Such was the mother of Adeline Mowbray ! 
At the time of Mr. Mowbray 's death , Adeline Mowbray was ten years old , and Mrs. Mowbray thirty ; and like an animal in an exhausted receiver , she had during her short existence been tormented by the experimental philosophy of her mother . 
After having over night arranged the tasks of Adeline for the next day , -- lost in some new speculations for the good of her child , she would lie in bed all the morning , exposing that child to the dangers of idleness . 
At one time Mrs. Mowbray had studied herself into great nicety with regard to the diet of her daughter ; but , as she herself was too much used to the indulgencies of the palate to be able to set her in reality an example of temperance , she dined in appearance with Adeline at one o'clock on pudding without butter , and potatoes without salt ; but while the child was taking her afternoon 's walk , her own table was covered with viands fitted for the appetite of opulence . 
Unfortunately , however , the servants conceived that the daughter as well as the mother had a right to regale clandestinely ; and the little Adeline used to eat for her supper , with a charge not to tell her mamma , some of the good things set by from Mrs. Mowbray 's dinner . 
It happened that , as Mrs. Mowbray was one evening smoothing Adeline 's flowing curls , and stroking her ruddy cheek , she exclaimed triumphantly , raising Adeline to the glass , `` See the effect of temperance and low living ! 
The artless girl , whose conscience smote her during the whole of this speech , hung her blushing head on her bosom : -- it was the confusion of guilt ; and Mrs. Mowbray perceiving it earnestly demanded what it meant , when Adeline , half crying , gave a full explanation . 
She no longer expected any advantage from clandestine measures : -- but Adeline , her appetites regulated by a proper exertion of parental authority , was allowed to sit at the well-furnished table of her mother , and was precluded , by a judicious and open indulgence , from wishing for a secret and improper one ; while the judicious praises which Mrs. Mowbray bestowed on Adeline 's ingenuous confession endeared to her the practice of truth , and laid the foundation of a habit of ingenuousness which formed through life one of the ornaments of her character ... Would that Mrs. Mowbray had always been equally judicious ! 
At this moment Adeline burst open the parlour door , and , crying bitterly , held up her bleeding toes to her mother . 
cried she , `` you forget to send for a pair of new shoes for me ; and see , how the stones in the gravel have cut me ! '' 
The feet of Adeline bleeding on a new Turkey carpet proved that some clothing for the feet was necessary ; and even Mrs. Mowbray for a moment began to suspect that a little experience is better than a great deal of theory . 
Meanwhile , in spite of all Mrs. Mowbray 's eccentricities and caprices , Adeline , as she grew up , continued to entertain for her the most perfect respect and affection . 
Her respect was excited by the high idea which she had formed of her abilities , -- an idea founded on the veneration which all the family seemed to feel for her on that account , -- and her affection was excited even to an enthusiastic degree by the tenderness with which Mrs. Mowbray had watched over her during an alarming illness . 
For twenty-one days Adeline had been in the utmost danger ; nor is it probable that she would have been able to struggle against the force of the disease , but for the unremitting attention of her mother . 
It was then , perhaps , for the first time that Mrs. Mowbray felt herself a mother : -- all her vanities , all her systems , were forgotten in the danger of Adeline , -- she did not even hazard an opinion on the medical treatment to be observed . 
For once she was contented to obey instructions in silence ; for once she was never caught in a reverie ; but , like the most common-place woman of her acquaintance , she lived to the present moment : -- and she was rewarded for her cares by the recovery of her daughter , and by that daughter 's most devoted attachment . 
Not even the parents of Mrs. Mowbray , who , because she talked on subjects which they could not understand , looked up to her as a superior being , could exceed Adeline in deference to her mother 's abilities ; and when , as she advanced in life , she was sometimes tempted to think her deficient in maternal fondness , the idea of Mrs. Mowbray bending with pale and speechless anxiety over her sleepless pillow used to recur to her remembrance , and in a moment the recent indifference was forgotten . 
From her mind 's being wholly engrossed in studies for the future benefit of Adeline . 
Why did she leave the concerns of her family to others ? 
why did she allow her infirm but active mother to superintend all the household duties ? 
and why did she seclude herself from all society , save that of her own family , and Dr. Norberry , her physician and friend , but that she might devote every hour to endeavours to perfect a system of education for her beloved and only daughter , to whom the work was to be dedicated ? 
`` And yet , '' said Adeline mentally , `` I am so ungrateful sometimes as to think she does not love me sufficiently . '' 
But while Mrs. Mowbray was busying herself in plans for Adeline 's education , she reached the age of fifteen , and was in a manner educated ; not , however , by her , -- though Mrs. Mowbray would , no doubt , have been surprised to have heard this assertion . 
`` My dear , '' said she one day to Adeline , `` as you are no genius , you know , like your mother , -LRB- and God forbid you should ! 
said Adeline . 
In a short time Adeline , stimulated by the ambition of being useful , -LRB- for she had often heard her mother assert that utility was the foundation of all virtue , -RRB- became as expert in household affairs as Mrs. Woodville herself : even the department of making pastry was now given up to Adeline , and the servants always came to her for orders , saying , that ` as their mistress was a learned lady , and that , and so could not be spoken with except here and there on occasion , they wished their young mistress , who was more easy spoken , would please to order : ' and as Mr. and Mrs. Woodville 's infirmities increased every day , Adeline soon thought it right to assume the entire management of the family . 
She also took upon herself the office of almoner to Mrs. Woodville , and performed it with an activity unknown to her ; for she herself carried the broth and wine that were to comfort the infirm cottager ; she herself saw the medicine properly administered that was to preserve his suffering existence : the comforts the poor required she purchased herself ; and in sickness she visited , in sorrow she wept with them : And though Adeline was almost unknown personally to the neighbouring gentry , she was followed with blessings by the surrounding cottagers ; while many a humble peasant watched at the gate of the park to catch a glimpse of his young benefactress , and pray God to repay to the heiress of Rosevalley the kindness which she had shown to him and his offspring . 
Thus happy , because usefully employed , and thus beloved and respected , because actively benevolent , passed the early years of Adeline Mowbray ; and thus was she educated , before her mother had completed her system of education . 
It was not long before Adeline took on herself a still more important office . 
Mrs. Mowbray 's steward was detected in very dishonest practices ; but , as she was too much devoted to her studies to like to look into her affairs with a view to dismiss him , she could not be prevailed upon to discharge him from her service . 
Fortunately , however , her father on his death-bed made it his request that she would do so ; and Mrs. Mowbray pledged herself to obey him . 
returned Adeline modestly . 
`` My grandmother and I , '' replied Adeline timidly : `` we both like business , and -- '' `` Like business ! 
`` Yes , grandmother , '' said Adeline ; `` and as I love arithmetic very much , I am quite anxious to keep all my mother 's accounts , and overlook the accounts of the person whom she shall employ to manage her estates in future . '' 
To this Mrs. Mowbray , half pleased and half mortified , at length consented ; and Adeline and farmer Jenkins entered upon their occupations . 
Shortly after Mrs. Woodville was seized with her last illness ; and Adeline neglected every other duty , and Mrs. Mowbray her studies , `` to watch , and weep , beside a parent 's bed . '' 
During Adeline 's illness , excessive fear of losing her only child had indeed awakened her to unusual exertion ; and as all that she had to do was to get down , at stated times , a certain quantity of wine and nourishment , her task though wearisome was not difficult : but to sooth the declining hours of an aged parent , to please the capricious appetite of decay , to assist with ready and skilful alacrity the shaking hand of the invalid , jealous of waiting on herself and wanting to be cheated into being waited upon ; -- these trifling yet important details did not suit the habits of Mrs. Mowbray . 
But Adeline was versed in them all ; and her mother , conscious of her superiority in these things , was at last contented to sit by inactive , though not unmoved . 
One day , when Mrs. Mowbray had been prevailed upon to lie down for an hour or two in another apartment , and Adeline was administering to Mrs. Woodville some broth which she had made herself , the old lady pressed her hand affectionately , and cried , `` Ah ! 
`` Dear grandmother , '' said Adeline tenderly , `` the time is come : I am , you see , useful to you ; and therefore I bless you already for having taught me to be so . '' 
asked Adeline with surprise . 
said Adeline . 
`` But I am sure , '' said Adeline , half smiling , `` that my mother did not mean to insinuate that you wanted proper thought . '' 
Here the old lady paused , and Adeline said affectionately , `` Dear grandmother , I doubt you exert yourself too much : so much talking ca n't be good for you . '' 
This speech brought tears into the eyes of Adeline ; and seeing her mother reenter the room , she withdrew to conceal the emotion which she felt , lest the cheerful loquacity of the invalid , which she was fond of indulging , should be checked by seeing her tears . 
In a few days more , she breathed her last on the supporting arm of Adeline ; and lamented in her dying moments , that she had nothing valuable in money to leave , in order to show Adeline how sensible she was of her affectionate attentions : `` but you are an only child , '' she added , `` and all your mother has will be yours . '' 
At this period Adeline 's ambition had led her to form new plans , which Mrs. Woodville 's death left her at liberty to put in execution . 
Whenever the old lady reminded her that she was no genius , Adeline had felt as much degraded as if she had said that she was no conjurer ; and though she was too humble to suppose that she could ever equal her mother , she was resolved to try to make herself more worthy of her , by imitating her in those pursuits and studies on which were founded Mrs. Mowbray 's pretensions to superior talents . 
She therefore made it her business to inquire what those studies and pursuits were ; and finding that Mrs. Mowbray 's noted superiority was built on her passion for abstruse speculations , Adeline eagerly devoted her leisure hours to similar studies : but , unfortunately , these new theories , and these romantic reveries , which only served to amuse Mrs. Mowbray 's fancy , her more enthusiastic daughter resolved to make conscientiously the rules of her practice . 
And while Mrs. Mowbray expended her eccentric philosophy in words , as Mr. Shandy did his grief , Adeline carefully treasured up hers in her heart , to be manifested only by its fruits . 
One author in particular , by a train of reasoning captivating though sophistical , and plausible though absurd , made her a delighted convert to his opinions , and prepared her young and impassioned heart for the practice of vice , by filling her mind , ardent in the love of virtue , with new and singular opinions on the subject of moral duty . 
On the works of this writer Adeline had often heard her mother descant in terms of the highest praise ; but she did not feel herself so completely his convert on her own conviction , till she had experienced the fatal fascination of his style , and been conveyed by his bewitching pen from the world as it is , into a world as it ought to be . 
This writer , whose name was Glenmurray , amongst other institutions , attacked the institution of marriage ; and after having elaborately pointed out its folly and its wickedness , he drew so delightful a picture of the superior purity , as well as happiness , of an union cemented by no ties but those of love and honour , that Adeline , wrought to the highest pitch of enthusiasm for a new order of things , entered into a solemn compact with herself to act , when she was introduced into society , according to the rules laid down by this writer . 
Unfortunately for her , she had no opportunity of hearing these opinions combated by the good sense and sober experience of Dr. Norberry then their sole visitant ; for at this time the American war was the object of attention to all Europe : and as Mrs. Mowbray , as well as Dr. Norberry , were deeply interested in this subject , they scarcely ever talked on any other ; and even Glenmurray and his theories were driven from Mrs. Mowbray 's remembrance by political tracts and the eager anxieties of a politician . 
But even had Adeline had an opportunity of discussing her new opinions with Dr. Norberry , it is not at all certain that she would have had the power . 
But Adeline , on the contrary , studied merely from the love of study , and not with a view to shine in conversation ; nor dared she venture to expatiate on subjects which she had often heard Mrs. Woodville say were very rarely canvassed , or even alluded to , by women . 
This unexpected declaration fixed her in the path of literary ambition : and though wisely resolved to fulfil , as usual , every feminine duty , Adeline was convinced that she , like her mother , had a right to be an author , a politician , and a philosopher ; while Dr. Norberry 's praises of her daughter convinced Mrs. Mowbray , that almost unconsciously she had educated her into a prodigy , and confirmed her in her intention of exhibiting herself and Adeline to the admiring world during the next season at Bath ; for at Bath she expected to receive that admiration which she had vainly sought in London . 
To Bath , therefore , she prepared to go ; and the young heart of Adeline beat high with pleasure at the idea of mixing with that busy world which her fancy had often clothed in the most winning attractions . 
But her joy , and Mrs. Mowbray 's , was a little overclouded at the moment of their departure , by the sight of Dr. Norberry 's melancholy countenance . 
For Adeline he had conceived not only affection , but esteem amounting almost to veneration ; for she appeared to him to unite various and opposing excellencies . 
Though possessed of taste and talents for literature , she was skilled in the minutest details of housewifery and feminine occupations ; and at the same time she bore her faculties so meekly , that she never wounded the self-love of any one , by arrogating to herself any superiority . 
Such Adeline appeared to her excellent old friend ; and his affection for her was , perhaps , increased by the necessity which he was under of concealing it at home . 
The praises of Mrs. Mowbray and Adeline were odious to the ears of Mrs. Norberry and his daughters , -- but especially the praises of the latter , -- as the merit of Adeline was so uniform , that even the eye of envy could not at that period discover any thing in her vulnerable to censure : and as the sound of her name excited in his family a number of bad passions and corresponding expressions of countenance , the doctor wisely resolved to keep his feelings , with regard to her , locked up in his own bosom . 
cried he , as Adeline , with an exulting bound , sprung after her mother into the carriage , `` how gay and delighted you are ! 
-- `` I wish you were going too , '' said Adeline : `` I shall often think of you . '' 
Attractive , rather than handsome , was the epithet best suited to describe Adeline Mowbray . 
Her beauty was the beauty of expression of countenance , not regularity of feature , though the uncommon fairness and delicacy of her complexion , the lustre of her hazel eyes , her long dark eyelashes , and the profusion of soft light hair which curled over the evermantling colour of her cheek , gave her some pretensions to what is denominated beauty . 
But her own sex declared she was plain -- and perhaps they were right -- though the other protested against the decision -- and probably they were right also : but women criticize in detail , men admire in the aggregate . 
Whether Adeline 's face were plain or not , her form could defy even the severity of female criticism . 
She was indeed tall , almost to a masculine degree ; but such were the roundness and proportion of her limbs , such the symmetry of her whole person , such the lightness and gracefulness of her movements , and so truly feminine were her look and manner , that her superior height was forgotten in the superior loveliness of her figure . 
Indeed , when it was known that Mrs. Mowbray was a rich widow , and Adeline dependent upon her , the mother became , in the eyes of some people , much more attractive than her daughter . 
It was impossible , however , that , in such a place as Bath , Mrs. Mowbray and Adeline could make , or rather retain , a general acquaintance . 
But this was not entirely owing to the freedom of their sentiments on politics , or on other subjects ; but , because they associated with a well-known but obnoxious author ; -- a man whose speculations had delighted the inquiring but ignorant lover of novelty , terrified the timid idolater of antient usages , and excited the regret of the cool and rational observer : -- regret , that eloquence so overwhelming , powers of reasoning so acute , activity of research so praise-worthy , and a love of investigation so ardent , should be thrown away on the discussion of moral and political subjects , incapable of teaching the world to build up again with more beauty and propriety , a fabric , which they were , perhaps , calculated to pull down : in short , Mrs. Mowbray and Adeline associated with Glenmurray , that author over whose works they had long delighted to meditate , and who had completely led their imagination captive , before the fascination of his countenance and manners had come in aid of his eloquence . 
When Mrs. Mowbray and Adeline first arrived at Bath , the latter had attracted the attention and admiration of colonel Mordaunt , an Irishman of fortune , and an officer in the guards ; and Adeline had not been insensible to the charms of a very fine person and engaging manners , united to powers of conversation which displayed an excellent understanding improved by education and reading . 
But colonel Mordaunt was not a marrying man , as it is called : therefore , as soon as he began to feel the influence of Adeline growing too powerful for his freedom , and to observe that his attentions were far from unpleasing to her , -- too honourable to excite an attachment in her which he was resolved to combat in himself , he resolved to fly from the danger , which he knew he could not face and overcome ; and after a formal but embarrassed adieu to Mrs. Mowbray and Adeline , he suddenly left Bath . 
This unexpected departure both surprised and grieved Adeline ; but , as her feelings of delicacy were too strong to allow her to sigh for a man who , evidently , had no thoughts of sighing for her , she dismissed colonel Mordaunt from her remembrance , and tried to find as much interest still in the ball-rooms , and the promenades , as his presence had given them : nor was it long before she found in them an attraction and an interest stronger than any which she had yet felt . 
It is naturally to be supposed that Adeline had often wished to know personally an author whose writings delighted her as much as Glenmurray 's had done , and that her fancy had often portrayed him : but though it had clothed him in a form at once pleasing and respectable , -- still , from an idea of his superior wisdom , she had imagined him past the meridian of life , and not likely to excite warmer feelings than those of esteem and veneration : and such continued to be Adeline 's idea of Glenmurray , when he arrived at Bath , having been sent thither by his physicians for the benefit of his health . 
Glenmurray , though a sense of his unpopularity had long banished him from scenes of public resort in general , was so pleased with the novelties of Bath , that , though he walked wholly unnoticed except by the lovers of genius in whatsoever shape it shows itself , he frequented daily the pump-room , and the promenades ; and Adeline had long admired the countenance and dignified person of this young and interesting invalid , without the slightest suspicion of his being the man of all others whom she the most wished to see . 
Nor had Glenmurray been slow to admire Adeline : and so strong , so irresistible was the feeling of admiration which she had excited in him , that , as soon as she appeared , all other objects vanished from his sight ; and as women are generally quick-sighted to the effect of their charms , Adeline never beheld the stranger without a suffusion of pleasurable confusion on her cheek . 
One morning at the pump-room , when Glenmurray , unconscious that Adeline was near , was reading the newspaper with great attention , and Adeline for the first time was looking at him unobserved , she heard the name of Glenmurray pronounced , and turned her head towards the person who spoke , in hopes of seeing Glenmurray himself ; when Mrs. Mowbray , turning round and looking at the invalid , said to a gentleman next her , `` Did you say , sir , that that tall , pale , dark , interesting-looking young man is Mr. Glenmurray , the celebrated author ? '' 
Nor was Adeline less abstracted : she too was contemplating Glenmurray , and with mixed but delightful feelings . 
said she mentally : `` it is a pity he looks so ill , '' added she sighing : but the sigh was caused rather by his looking so well -- though Adeline was not conscious of it . 
Glenmurray , with a bow and a blush of mingled surprise and pleasure , replied that there was a great deal , -- and immediately presented to her the paper which he had relinquished , setting chairs at the same time for her and Adeline . 
`` Speak , Adeline , '' cried she , turning to her blushing daughter ; `` do we not almost daily read and daily admire Mr. Glenmurray 's writings ? '' 
-- `` Yes , certainly , '' replied Adeline , unable to articulate more , awed no doubt by the presence of so superior a being ; while Glenmurray , more proud of being an author than ever , said internally , `` Is it possible that that sweet creature should have read and admired my works ? '' 
But in vain , encouraged by the smiles and even by the blushes of Adeline , did he endeavour to engage her in conversation . 
Adeline was unusually silent , unusually bashful . 
But Mrs. Mowbray made ample amends for her deficiency ; and Mr. Glenmurray , flattered and amused , would have continued to converse with her and look at Adeline , had he not observed served the impertinent sneers and rude laughter to which conversing so familiarly with him exposed Mrs. Mowbray . 
As soon as he observed this , he arose to depart ; for Glenmurray was , according to Rochefoucault 's maxim , so exquisitely selfish , that he always considered the welfare of others before his own ; and heroically sacrificing his own gratification to save Mrs. Mowbray and Adeline from further censure , he bowed with the greatest respect to Mrs. Mowbray , sighed as he paid the same compliment to Adeline , and , lamenting his being forced to quit them so soon , with evident reluctance left the room . 
Adeline had observed nothing but the sigh ; and on that she did not choose to make any comment . 
He had observed Mrs. Mowbray and Adeline , even before Adeline had observed him ; and , as he gazed upon the fascinating Adeline , he had sighed to think that she too would be taught to avoid the dangerous and disreputable acquaintance of Glenmurray . 
But , being well convinced that it was owing to her ignorance of the usual customs and opinions of those with whom she associated , he was too generous to accept the invitation , as he knew that his presence at a rout at Bath would cause general dismay , and expose the mistress to disagreeable remarks at least : but he endeavoured to make himself amends for his self-denial , by asking leave to wait on them when they were alone . 
A day or two after , as Adeline was leaning on the arm of a young lady , Glenmurray passed them , and to his respectful bow she returned a most cordial salutation . 
my dear , '' said her companion , `` do you know who that man is ? '' 
said Adeline eagerly . 
replied Adeline laughing . 
It so happened that poor Mr. Glenmurray heard every word of this conversation ; for he had turned round and followed Adeline and her fair companion , to present to the former the glove which she had dropped ; and as they were prevented from proceeding by the crowd on the parade , which was assembled to see some unusual sight , he , being immediately behind them , could distinguish all that passed ; so that Adeline turned round to go in search of him , before the blush of grateful admiration for her kindness had left his cheek . 
In a moment the world to him seemed to contain only two beings , Adeline Mowbray and Frederic Glenmurray ; and that Adeline , starting and blushing with joyful surprise at seeing him so near her , was then coming in search of him ! 
Nor could `` I ca n't think what I have done with my glove , '' which every now and then escaped Adeline , prevail on him to own that he had found it . 
At last , indeed , it became unnecessary ; for Adeline , as she glanced her eye towards Glenmurray , discovered it in the hiding-place : but , as delicacy forbade her to declare the discovery which she had made , he was suffered to retain his prize ; though a deep and sudden blush which overspread his cheek , and a sudden pause which she made in her conversation , convinced Glenmurray that she had detected his secret . 
Perhaps he was not sorry -- nor Adeline ; but certain it is that Adeline was for the remainder of the morning more lost in reverie than ever her mother had been ; and that from that day every one , but Adeline and Glenmurray , saw that they were mutually enamoured . 
He was firmly resolved never to marry ; and it was very unlikely that Adeline , though she had often expressed to him her approbation of his writings and opinions , should be willing to sacrifice every thing to love , and become his mistress . 
Several weeks had elapsed since the first arrival of the Mowbrays at Bath , and in that time almost all their acquaintances had left them one by one ; but neither Mrs. Mowbray nor Adeline had paid much attention to this circumstance . 
Mrs. Mowbray 's habits of abstraction , as usual , made her regardless of common occurrences ; and to these were added the more delightful reveries occasioned by the attentions of a very handsome and insinuating man , and the influence of a growing passion . 
Adeline , engrossed also by the pleasing reveries of a first love , was as unconscious of it as herself . 
Indeed she thought of nothing but love and Glenmurray ; else , she could not have failed to see , that , while sir Patrick 's attentions and flatteries were addressed to her mother , his ardent looks and passionate sighs were all directed to herself . 
Still , though much pleased with the wealth and appearance of the mother , he soon became enamoured of the daughter 's person ; and had he not gone so far in his addresses to Mrs. Mowbray as to make it impossible she should willingly transfer him to Adeline , and give her a fortune at all adequate to his wants , he would have endeavoured honourably to gain her affections , and entered the lists against the favoured Glenmurray . 
Constantly therefore did he besiege Mrs. Mowbray with his conversation , and Adeline with his eyes ; and the very libertine gaze with which he often beheld her , gave a pang to Glenmurray which was but too soon painfully increased . 
One evening they and two ladies were drinking tea at Mrs. Mowbray 's lodgings , when Mrs. Mowbray was unusually silent and Adeline unusually talkative . 
Adeline scarcely ever spoke in her mother 's presence , from deference to her abilities ; and whatever might be Mrs. Mowbray 's defects in other respects , her conversational talents and her uncommon command of words were indisputable . 
But this evening , as I before observed , Adeline , owing to her mother 's tender abstractions , was obliged to exert herself for the entertainment of the guests . 
It so happened , also , that something was said by one of the party which led to the subject of marriage , and Adeline was resolved not to let so good an opportunity pass of proving to Glenmurray how sincerely she approved his doctrine on that subject . 
Immediately , with an unreserve which nothing but her ignorance of the world , and the strange education which she had received , could at all excuse , she began to declaim against marriage , as an institution at once absurd , unjust , and immoral , and to declare that she would never submit to so contemptible a form , or profane the sacred ties of love by so odious and unnecessary a ceremony . 
This extraordinary speech , though worded elegantly and delivered gracefully , was not received by any of her hearers , except sir Patrick , with any thing like admiration . 
in a manner so loud , and so offensive to the feelings of Adeline , that , like the orator of old , she was tempted to exclaim , `` What foolish thing can I have said , that has drawn forth this applause ? '' 
But Mrs. Mowbray , though she could not help admiring the eloquence of her daughter , -- eloquence which she attributed to her example , -- was shocked at hearing Adeline declare that her practice should be consonant to her theory ; while Glenmurray , though Adeline had only expressed his sentiments , and his reason approved what she had uttered , felt his delicacy and his feelings wounded by so open and decided an avowal of her opinions , and intended conduct in consequence of them : and he was still more hurt when he saw how much it delighted sir Patrick , and offended the rest of the company ; who , after a silence the result of surprise and disgust , suddenly rose , and , coldly wishing Mrs. Mowbray good night , left the house . 
By Mrs. Mowbray the cause of this abrupt departure was unsuspected : but Adeline , who had more observation , was convinced that she was the cause of it ; and sighing deeply at the prejudices of the world , she sought to console herself by looking at Glenmurray , expecting to find in his eyes an expression of delight and approbation . 
To her great disappointment , however , his countenance was sad ; while sir Patrick , on the contrary , had an expression of impudent triumph in his look , which made her turn blushing from his ardent gaze , and indignantly follow her mother , who was then leaving the room . 
As she passed him , sir Patrick caught her hand rapturously to his lips -LRB- an action which made Glenmurray start from his chair -RRB- , and exclaimed , `` Upon my soul , you are the only honest little woman I ever knew ! 
asked the astonished Adeline . 
demanded Adeline , while Glenmurray paced the room in agitation . 
`` Pray , gentlemen , be less violent , '' exclaimed the terrified and astonished Adeline . 
replied Adeline : `` many times ? 
you are indeed ignorant of my meaning , '' she rejoined : `` it is the individuality of an attachment that constitutes its chastity ; and -- '' `` Ba-ba-bu , my lovely girl ! 
`` Indeed , sir Patrick , '' meekly returned Adeline , `` I -- '' `` Miss Mowbray , '' angrily interrupted Glenmurray , `` I beg , I conjure you to drop this conversation : your innocence is no match for -- '' `` For what , sir ? '' 
exclaimed the agitated Adeline : `` for my sake , for pity 's sake , desist ! '' 
`` Sir , '' replied Adeline , `` the safety of a fellow creature is always of importance in my eyes . '' 
-- Mighty fine , truly , you dear ungrateful -- '' seizing her hand ; which he relinquished , as well as the rest of his speech , on the entrance of Mrs. Mowbray . 
Soon after Adeline left the room , and Glenmurray bowed and retired ; while sir Patrick , having first repeated his vows of admiration to the mother , returned home to muse on the charms of the daughter , and the necessity of challenging the moral Glenmurray . 
To fight a duel would be , as Adeline observed , contrary to his principles ; and to decline one , irritated as he was against sir Patrick , was repugnant to his feelings . 
To no purpose did he peruse and reperuse nearly the whole of his own book against duelling ; he had few religious restraints to make him resolve on declining a challenge , and he felt moral ones of little avail : but in vain did he sit at home till the morning was far advanced , expecting a messenger from sir Patrick ; -- no messenger came : -- he therefore left word with his servant , that , if wanted , he might be found at Mrs. Mowbray 's , and went thither , in hopes of enjoying an hour 's conversation with Adeline ; resolving to hint to her , as delicately as he could , that the opinions which she had expressed were better confined , in the present dark state of the public mind , to a select and discriminating circle . 
Sir Patrick had reached Mrs. Mowbray 's some time before him , and had , to his great satisfaction , found Adeline alone ; nor did it escape his penetration that her cheeks glowed , and her eyes sparkled with pleasure , at his approach . 
But he would not have rejoiced in this circumstance , had he known that Adeline was pleased to see him merely because she considered his appearance as a proof of Glenmurray 's safety ; for , in spite of his having written against duelling , and of her confidence in his firmness and consistency , she was not quite convinced that the reasoning philosopher would triumph over the feeling man . 
cried Adeline , as he entered , with a most winning smile : `` I am very glad to see you : pray sit down . '' 
The baronet , who , audacious as his hopes and intentions were , had not expected so kind a reception , was quite thrown off his guard by it , and , catching her suddenly in his arms , endeavoured to obtain a still kinder welcome . 
Adeline as suddenly disengaged herself from him , and , with the dignity of offended modesty , desired him to quit the room , as , after such an insolent attempt , she could not think herself justified in suffering him to remain with her . 
But her anger was soon changed into pity , when she saw sir Patrick lay down his hat , seat himself , and burst into a long deliberate laugh . 
she exclaimed ; and , leaning against the chimney-piece , she began to contemplate him with a degree of fearful interest . 
said Adeline , more confirmed than before in her idea of his insanity , and immediately endeavoured to reach the door : but in so doing she approached sir Patrick , who , rather roughly seizing her trembling hand , desired her to sit down , and hear what he had to say to her . 
Adeline , thinking it not right to irritate him , instantly obeyed . 
thought Adeline , not suspecting for a moment that , by the old duchess , he meant her still blooming mother . 
continued sir Patrick , most ardently pressing her hand , `` so much have your sweet person , and your frank and liberal way of thinking , charmed me , that I here freely offer myself to you , and we will begin the life of honour together as soon as you please . '' 
Still Adeline , who was unconscious how much her avowed opinions had exposed her to insult , continued to believe sir Patrick insane ; a belief which the wildness of his eyes confirmed . 
Adeline , though alarmed , bewildered , and confounded , had still recollection enough to know that , whether sane or insane , the words and looks of sir Patrick were full of increasing insult . 
`` I believe , I think I had better retire , '' faltered out Adeline . 
... Aye , by all means , '' exclaimed the baronet , rudely seizing her . 
This outrage restored Adeline to her usual spirit and self-possession ; and bestowing on him the epithet of ` mean-soul 'd ruffian ! ' 
she had almost freed herself from his grasp , when a quick step was heard on the stairs , and the door was thrown open by Glenmurray . 
In a moment Adeline , bursting into tears , threw herself into his arms , as if in search of protection . 
Glenmurray required no explanation of the scene before him : the appearance of the actors in it was explanation sufficient ; and while with one arm he fondly held Adeline to his bosom , he raised the other in a threatening attitude against sir Patrick , exclaiming as he did it , `` Base , unmanly villain ! '' 
As soon as he was gone , Glenmurray for the first time declared to Adeline the ardent passion with which she had inspired him ; and she , with equal frankness , confessed that her heart was irrevocably his . 
From this interesting tête-à-tête Adeline was summoned to attend a person on business to her mother ; and during her absence Glenmurray received a challenge from the angry baronet , appointing him to meet him that afternoon at five o'clock , about two miles from Bath . 
To this note , for fear of alarming the suspicions of Adeline , Glenmurray returned only a verbal message , saying he would answer it in two hours : but as soon as she returned he pleaded indispensable business ; and before she could mention any fears respecting the consequences of what had passed between him and sir Patrick , he had left the room , having , to prevent any alarm , requested leave to wait on her early the next day . 
No , no ; I must fight : -- even Adeline herself , especially as it is on her account , will despise me if I do not : '' -- and then , without giving himself any more time to deliberate , he sent an answer to sir Patrick , promising to meet him at the time appointed . 
This story soon reached the ears of Mrs. Mowbray , who , in an agony of tender sorrow , and in defiance of all decorum , went in person to call on her admired sir Patrick ; and Adeline , who heard of the affair soon after , as regardless of appearances as her mother , and more alarmed , went in person to inquire concerning her wounded Glenmurray . 
The account of both the surgeons was , however , so favourable , and Glenmurray in all respects so well , that sir Patrick 's alarms were soon quite at an end ; and the wounded man was lying on a sopha , lost in no very pleasant reflections , when Adeline knocked at his door . 
In an instant all his self-reproaches were forgotten ; and when Adeline hung weeping and silent on his shoulder , he could not but rejoice in an affair which had procured him a moment of such heartfelt delight . 
At first Adeline expressed nothing but terror at the consequences of his wound , and pity for his sufferings ; but when she found that he was in no danger , and in very little pain , the tender mistress yielded to the severe monitress , and she began to upbraid Glenmurray for having acted not only in defiance of her wishes and principles , but of his own ; of principles laid down by him to the world in the strongest point of view , and in a manner convincing to every mind . 
`` Dearest Adeline , consider the provocation , '' cried Glenmurray ; -- `` a gross insult offered to the woman I love ! '' 
`` Is it possible , '' rejoined Adeline , `` that I hear the philosophical Glenmurray talking thus , in the silly jargon of a man of the world ? '' 
I am a man , not a philosopher , Adeline ! '' 
It is your own , '' replied Adeline : `` but see , I have the book in my muff ; and I will punish you for the badness of your practice , by giving you a dose of your theory . '' 
Adeline was however resolved ; and , opening the book , she read argument after argument with unyielding perseverance , till Glenmurray , who , like the eagle in the song , saw on the dart that wounded him his own feathers , cried `` Quarter ! '' 
`` But tell me , dear Adeline , '' said Glenmurray , a little piqued at her too just reproofs , `` you , who are so severe on my want of consistency , are you yourself capable of acting up in every respect to your precepts ? '' 
`` After your weakness , '' replied Adeline , smiling , `` it becomes me to doubt my own strength ; but I assure you that I make it a scruple of conscience , to show by my conduct my confidence in the truth of my opinions . '' 
`` I will '' said Adeline : `` and may that God whom I worship -LRB- raising her fine eyes and white arms to heaven -RRB- desert me when I desert you ! '' 
Who that had seen her countenance and gesture at that moment , could have imagined she was calling on heaven to witness an engagement to lead a life of infamy ? 
Rather would they have thought her a sublime enthusiast breathing forth the worship of a grateful soul . 
It may be supposed that Glenmurray 's heart beat with exultation at this confession from Adeline , and that he forgot , in the promised indulgence of his passion , to confine himself within those bounds which strict decorum required . 
But Glenmurray did her justice ; he beheld her as she was -- all purity of feeling and all delicacy ; and , if possible , the slight favours by which true passion is long contented to be fed , though granted by Adeline with more conscious emotion , were received by him with more devoted respect : besides , he again felt that mixture of pain with pleasure , on this assurance of her love , which he had experienced before . 
For he knew , though Adeline did not , the extent of the degradation into which the step which her conscience approved would necessarily precipitate her ; and experience alone could convince him that her sensibility to shame , when she was for the first time exposed to it , would not overcome her supposed fortitude and boasted contempt of the world 's opinion , and change all the roses of love into the thorns of regret and remorse . 
And could he who doted on her ; -- he , too , who admired her as much for her consummate purity as for any other of her qualities ; -- could he bear to behold this fair creature , whose open eye beamed with the consciousness of virtue , casting her timid glances to the earth , and shrinking with horror from the conviction of having in the world 's eye forfeited all pretensions to that virtue which alone was the end of her actions ! 
Would the approbation of her own mind be sufficient to support her under such a trial , though she had with such sweet earnestness talked to him of its efficacy ! 
These reflections had for some time past been continually occurring to him , and now they came across his mind blighting the triumphs of successful passion : -- nay , but from the dread of incurring yet more ridicule , on account of the opposition of his practice to his theory , and perhaps the indignant contempt of Adeline , he could have thrown himself at her feet , conjuring her to submit to the degradation of being a wife . 
But , unknown to Glenmurray , perhaps , another reason prompted him to desire this concession from Adeline . 
-- Egotism loves a becoming dress , and is always on the watch to hide her ugliness by the robe of benevolence . 
Glenmurray thought that he was willing to marry Adeline merely for her sake ; but I suspect it was chiefly for his . 
But while Glenmurray , in spite of his happiness , was sensible to an alloy of it , and Adeline was tenderly imputing to the pain of his wound the occasionally mournful expression of his countenance , Adeline took occasion to declare that she would live with Glenmurray only on condition that such a step met with her mother 's approbation . 
replied the astonished Adeline : `` can you think so meanly of my mother , as to suppose her practice so totally opposite to her principles , that she would require her daughter to submit to a ceremony which she herself regards with contempt ? 
Glenmurray thought otherwise : however , he bowed and was silent ; and Adeline declared that , to put an end to all doubt on the subject , she would instantly go in search of Mrs. Mowbray and propose the question to her : and Glenmurray , feeling himself more weak and indisposed than he chose to own to her , allowed her , though reluctantly , to depart . 
Mrs. Mowbray was but just returned from her charitable visit when Adeline entered the room . 
she exclaimed , seeing Adeline with her hat and cloak on . 
`` I have been visiting poor Mr. Glenmurray , '' she replied . 
`` Indeed , madam , '' replied Adeline meekly , `` my education never taught me that such conduct was improper ; nor , as you did the same this afternoon , could I have dared to think it so . '' 
`` If you think I have acted wrong , '' replied Adeline timidly , `` no doubt I have done so ; though you were quite right in visiting sir Patrick , as the respectability of your age and character , and sir Patrick 's youth , warranted the propriety of the visit : -- but , surely the terms which I am upon with Mr. Glenmurray -- '' `` The terms which you are upon with Mr. Glenmurray ! 
`` I hoped , my dear mother , '' said Adeline tenderly , `` that you had long ere this guessed the attachment which subsists between Mr. Glenmurray and me ; -- an attachment cherished by your high opinion of him and his writings ; but which respect has till now made me hesitate to mention to you . '' 
`` To what sir Patrick says of Mr. Glenmurray I pay no attention , '' answered Adeline ; `` nor are you , my dear mother , capable , I am sure , of being influenced by the prejudices of the world . 
cried Mrs Mowbray , turning pale . 
`` My dearest mother , '' replied Adeline , `` your agitation terrifies me , -- but indeed what I say is strictly true ; and see here , in Mr. Glenmurray 's book , the very passage which I so often have heard you admire . '' 
As she said this , Adeline pointed to the passage ; but in an instant Mrs. Mowbray seized the book and threw it on the fire . 
Before Adeline had recovered her consternation Mrs. Mowbray fell into a violent hysteric ; and long was it before she was restored to composure . 
When she recovered she was so exhausted that Adeline dared not renew the conversation ; but leaving her to rest , she made up a bed on her floor in her mother 's room , and passed a night of wretchedness and watchfulness , -- the first of the kind which she had ever known . 
In the morning Mrs. Mowbray awoke , refreshed and calm ; and , affected at seeing the pale cheek and sunk eye of Adeline , indicative of a sleepless and unhappy night , she held her hand out to her with a look of kindness ; Adeline pressed it to her lips , as she knelt by the bed-side , and moistened it with tears of regret for the past and alarm for the future . 
`` Adeline , my dear child , '' said Mrs. Mowbray in a faint voice , `` I hope you will no longer think of putting a design in execution so fraught with mischief to you , and horror to me . 
`` Is there no difference , '' thought Adeline , `` between the importance of a dress and an opinion ! 
But she continued silent , and Mrs. Mowbray went on . 
Adeline listened in silent astonishment and consternation . 
Conscience , and the conviction of what is right , she then for the first time learned , were not to be the rule of action ; and though filial tenderness made her resolve never to be the mistress of Glenmurray , she also resolved never to be his wife , or that of any other man ; while , in spite of herself , the great respect with which she had hitherto regarded her mother 's conduct and opinions began to diminish . 
`` Would to heaven , my dear mother , '' said Adeline , when Mrs. Mowbray had done speaking , `` that you had said all this to me ere my mind had been indelibly impressed with the truth of these forbidden doctrines ; for now my conscience tells me that I ought to act up to them ! '' 
replied Adeline , alarmed at her mother 's violence , and fearful of a relapse . 
Mrs. Mowbray never made a truer observation ; but Adeline was not in a frame of mind to assent to it . 
exclaimed Adeline . 
returned Adeline , almost inarticulate with rage : -- `` but what could be expected from a man who could dare to insult a young woman under the roof of her mother with his licentious addresses ? '' 
exclaimed Adeline , turning pale in her turn . 
Adeline , on hearing this terrible information , fell insensible on the ground . 
When she recovered she saw Mrs. Mowbray anxiously watching by her , but not with that look of alarm and tenderness with which she had attended her during her long illness ; that look which was always present to her grateful and affectionate remembrance . 
No ; Mrs. Mowbray 's eye was cast down with a half-mournful , half-reproachful , and half-fearful expression , when it met that of Adeline . 
The emotion of anguish which her fainting had evinced was a reproach to the proud heart of Mrs. Mowbray , and Adeline felt that it was so ; but when she recollected that her mother was going to marry a man who had so lately declared a criminal passion for herself , she was very near relapsing into insensibility . 
She however struggled with her feelings , in order to gain resolution to disclose to Mrs. Mowbray all that had passed between her and sir Patrick . 
`` I shall be better , dear mother , if you will but hear what I have to say concerning sir Patrick , '' replied Adeline , bursting into tears . 
`` You can say nothing that will shake my opinion of him , miss Mowbray , '' replied her mother coldly : `` so I advise you to reconcile yourself to a circumstance which it is not in your power to prevent . '' 
So saying , she left the room ; and Adeline , convinced that all she could say would be vain , endeavoured to console herself , by thinking that , as soon as sir Patrick became the husband of her mother , his wicked designs on her would undoubtedly cease ; and that , therefore , in one respect , this ill-assorted union would be beneficial to her . 
Unlike the innocent Adeline , he did not consider his union with the mother as a necessary check to his attempts on the daughter ; but , emboldened by what to him appeared the libertine sentiments of Adeline , and relying on the opportunities of being with her , which he must infallibly enjoy under the same roof in the country , he looked on her as his certain prey . 
Though he believed Glenmurray to be at that moment preferred to himself , he thought it impossible that the superior beauty of his person should not , in the end , have its due weight ; as a passion founded in esteem , and the admiration of intellectual beauty , could not , in his opinion , subsist : besides , Adeline appeared in his eyes not a deceived enthusiast , but a susceptible and forward girl , endeavouring to hide her frailty under fine sentiments and high-sounding theories . 
He was indignant at the charge of having advised Adeline to become his mistress rather than his wife ; and as so much of the concluding passage as he could understand seemed to imply that he had calumniated her mother , to remain silent a moment would have been to confess himself guilty : he therefore answered Mrs. Mowbray 's letter immediately . 
This letter had an effect on Mrs. Mowbray 's feelings so much in favour of Glenmurray , that she was almost determined to let him marry Adeline . 
She felt that she owed her some amends for contracting a marriage so suddenly , and without either her knowledge or approbation ; and she thought that , by marrying her to the man of her heart , she should make her peace both with Adeline and herself . 
She therefore wrote another letter to Glenmurray , forbidding him any further intercourse with Adeline , on any pretence whatever ; and delayed not a moment to send him her final decision . 
`` That is acting like the sensible woman I took you for , '' said sir Patrick : `` the fellow has now gotten his quietus , I trust , and the dear little Adeline is reserved for a happier fate . 
you do not know how fond she will be of me ! 
I protest that I shall be so kind to her , it will be difficult for people to decide which I love best , the daughter or the mother . '' 
Suffice , that eight o'clock the next morning was fixed for the marriage ; and Mrs. Mowbray , either from shame or compassion , resolved that Adeline should not accompany her to church , nor even know of the ceremony till it was over . 
Adeline remained in her own apartment all the preceding day , endeavouring , but in vain , to reconcile herself to what she justly termed the degradation of her mother . 
She felt , alas ! 
the most painful of all feelings , next to that of self-abasement , -- the consciousness of the abasement of one to whom she had all her life looked up with love and veneration . 
To write to Glenmurray while oppressed by such contending emotions she knew to be impossible ; she therefore contented herself with sending a verbal message , importing that he should hear from her the next day : and poor Glenmurray passed the rest of that day and the night in a state little better than her own . 
The next morning Adeline , who had not closed her eyes till day-light , woke late , and from a sound but unrefreshing sleep . 
The first object she saw was her maid , smartly dressed , sitting by her bed-side ; and she also saw that she had been crying . 
she exclaimed . 
replied Adeline . 
demanded Adeline . 
`` That 's as it may be , '' she cried , turning away ; and Adeline , from delicacy , forbore to press her further . 
asked Adeline , `` and time for me to rise ? '' 
Adeline immediately rose . 
-- `` Give me the dark gown I wore yesterday , '' said she . 
exclaimed Adeline , astonished at an interference so new . 
At these words Adeline 's suspicions were awakened . 
`` I see , Evans , '' she cried , `` you have something extraordinary to tell me : -- I partly guess ; I , -- my mother -- '' Here , unable to proceed , she lay down on the bed which she had just quitted . 
said Adeline faintly . 
`` Leave me , '' said Adeline faintly , struggling for utterance . 
Adeline hid her face in the pillow , incapable of further resistance , and groaned aloud . 
At this account , which Adeline feared was a just one , as she had seen no preparations for a wedding going on , and had observed no signs of deeds , or any thing of the kind , she started up in an agony of grief -- `` Then has my mother given me up , indeed ! '' 
she exclaimed , clasping her hands together , `` and the once darling child may soon be a friendless outcast ! '' 
And Adeline , whose heart was bursting with a sense of forlornness and abandonment , felt consoled by the artless sympathy of her attendant ; and , giving way to a violent flood of tears , she threw her arms round her neck , and sobbed upon her bosom . 
Having thus eased her feelings , she recollected that it was incumbent on her to exert her fortitude ; and that it was a duty which she owed her mother not to condemn her conduct openly herself , nor suffer any one else to do it in her presence : still , at that moment , she could not find in her heart to reprove the observations by which , in spite of her sense of propriety , she had been soothed and gratified ; but she hastened to dress herself as became a bridal dinner , and dismissed , as soon as she could , the affectionate Evans from her presence . 
She then walked up and down her chamber , in order to summon courage to enter the drawing-room . 
-- `` But how strange , how cruel it was , '' said she , `` that my mother did not come to inform me of this important event herself ! '' 
Reluctant , even more than she was willing to confess to her own heart , to meet Adeline alone , she had chosen to conclude that she was still asleep , and had desired she might not be disturbed ; but soon after her return from church , being assured that she was in a sound slumber , she had stolen to her bed-side and put a note under her pillow , acquainting her with what had passed : but this note Adeline in her restlessness had , with her pillow , pushed on the floor , and there unseen it had remained . 
But , as Adeline was pacing to and fro , she luckily observed it ; and , by proving that her mother had not been so very neglectful of her , it tended to fortify her mind against the succeeding interview . 
But , my beloved Adeline , I trust that your affection for me will make you rejoice in a step which you may , perhaps , at present disapprove , when convinced that it was absolutely necessary to my happpiness , and can , in no way , be the means of diminishing yours . 
cried Adeline , shedding tears of tenderness , `` and I accused her unjustly . 
And then , after taking two or three hasty turns round the room , and bathing her eyes to remove in a degree the traces of her tears , she ventured into the drawing-room . 
But the sight of her mother seated by sir Patrick , his arm encircling her waist , in that very room which had so lately witnessed his profligate attempts on herself , deprived her of the little resolution which she had been able to assume , and pale and trembling she sunk speechless with emotion on the first chair near her . 
Mrs. Mowbray , or , as we must at present call her , lady O'Carrol , was affected by Adeline 's distress , and , hastening to her , received the almost fainting girl in her arms ; while even sir Patrick , feeling compassion for the unhappiness which he could more readily understand than his bride , was eager to hide his confusion by calling for water , drops , and servants . 
`` I want neither medicine nor assistance now , '' said Adeline , gently raising her head from her mother 's shoulder : `` the first shock is over , and I shall , I trust , behave in future with proper self-command . '' 
`` Better late than never , '' muttered lady O'Carrol , on whom the word shock had not made a pleasant impression ; while sir Patrick , approaching Adeline , exclaimed , `` If you have not self-command , miss Mowbray , it is the only command which you can not boast ; for your power of commanding others no one can dispute , who has ever had the happiness of beholding you . '' 
So saying , he took her hand ; and , as her mother 's husband , claimed the privilege of saluting her , -- a privilege which Adeline , though she almost shrunk with horror from his touch , had self-command enough not to deny him : immediately after he claimed the same favour from his bride ; and they resumed their position on the sopha . 
But so embarrassing was the situation of all parties that no conversation took place ; and Adeline , unable any longer to endure the restraint to which she was obliged , rose , to return to her own room , in order to hide the sorrow which she was on the point of betraying , when her mother in a tone of reproach exclaimed , `` It grieves me to the soul , miss Mowbray , to perceive that you appear to consider as a day of mourning the day which I consider as the happiest of my life . '' 
replied Adeline , returning and approaching her , `` it is the dread of your deceiving yourself , only , that makes me sad at a time like this : if this day in its consequences prove a happy one -- '' `` And wherefore should you doubt that it will , miss Mowbray ? '' 
Adeline instantly fixed her fine eyes on his face with a look which he knew how to interpret , but not how to support ; and he cast his to the ground with painful consciousness . 
She saw her triumph , and it gave her courage to proceed : -- `` O sir ! '' 
she cried , `` it is in your power to convert all my painful doubts into joyful certainties ; make but my mother happy , and I will love and bless you ever . 
-- Promise me , sir , '' she continued , her enthusiasm and affection kindling as she spoke , `` promise me to be kind and indulgent to her ; -- she has never known contradiction ; she has been through life the darling object of all who surrounded her ; the pride of her parents , her husband , and her child : neglect , injury , and unkindness she would inevitably sink under : and I conjure you -LRB- here she dropped on her knees and extended her arms in an attitude of entreaty -RRB- , by all your hopes of happiness hereafter , to give her reason to continue to name this the happiest day of her life . '' 
Here she ceased , overcome by the violence of her emotions ; but continued her look and attitude of entreaty , full of such sweet earnestness , that the baronet could hardly conceal the variety of feelings which assailed him ; amongst which , passion for the lovely object before him predominated . 
To make a jest of Adeline 's seriousness he conceived to be the best way to conceal what he felt ; and while Mrs. Mowbray , overcome with Adeline 's expressions of tenderness , was giving way to them by a flood of tears , and grasping in both hers the clasped hands of Adeline , he cried , in an ironical tone , -- `` You are the most extraordinary motherly young creature that I ever saw in my life , my dear girl ! 
So saying , he knelt beside Adeline at lady O'Carrol 's feet , and in a tone of mock solemnity besought her to bless both her affectionate children : and as he did this , he threw his arm round the weeping girl , and pressed her to his bosom . 
This speech , and this action , at once banished all self-command from the indignant Adeline , and in an instant she sprung from his embrace ; and forgetting how much her violence must surprise , if not alarm and offend , her mother , she rushed out of the room , and did not stop till she reached her own chamber . 
When there , she was alarmed lest her conduct should have occasioned both pain and resentment to lady O'Carrol ; and it was with trembling reluctance that she obeyed the summons to dinner ; but her fears were groundless . 
The bride had fallen into one of her reveries during sir Patrick 's strange speech , from which she awakened only at the last words of it , viz . 
`` affectionate children : '' and seeing sir Patrick at her feet , with a very tender expression on his face , and hearing the words `` affectionate children , '' she conceived that he was expressing his hopes of their being blest with progeny , and that a selfish feeling of fear at such a prospect had hurried Adeline out of the room . 
She was therefore disposed to regard her daughter with pity , but not with resentment , when she entered the dinner-room , and Adeline 's tranquillity in a degree returned : but when she retired for the night she could not help owning to herself , that that day , her mother 's wedding-day , had been the most painful day of her existence -- and she literally sobbed herself to sleep . 
The next morning a new trial awaited her ; she had to write a final farewell to Glenmurray . 
Many letters did she begin , many did she finish , and many did she tear ; but recollecting that the longer she delayed sending him one , the longer she kept him in a state of agitating suspense , she resolved to send the last written , even though it appeared to her not quite so strong a transcript of her feelings as the former ones . 
Whether it were so or not , Glenmurray received it with alternate agony and transport ; -- with agony , because it destroyed every hope of Adeline 's being his , -- and with transport , because every line breathed the purest and yet most ardent attachment , and convinced him that , however long their separation , the love of Adeline would experience no change . 
Many days elapsed before Glenmurray could bear any companion but the letter of Adeline ; and during that time she was on the road with the bride and bridegroom to a beautiful seat in Berkshire , called the Pavilion , hired by sir Patrick , the week before his marriage , of one of his profligate friends . 
As the road lay through a very fine country , Adeline would have thought the journey a pleasant one , had not the idea of Glenmurray ill and dejected continually haunted her . 
Sir Patrick appeared to be engrossed by his bride , and she was really wholly wrapt up in him ; and at times the beauties of the scenery around had power to engage Adeline 's attention : but she immediately recollected how much Glenmurray would have participated in her delight , and the contemplation of the prospect ended in renewed recollections of him . 
At length they arrived at the place of their destination ; and sir Patrick , warmly embracing his bride , bade her welcome to her new abode ; and immediately approaching Adeline , he bestowed on her an embrace no less cordial : -- or , to say the truth , so ardent seemed the welcome , even to the innocent Adeline , that she vainly endeavoured to persuade herself that , as her father-in-law , sir Patrick 's tenderness was excusable . 
Spite of her efforts to be cheerful she was angry and suspicious , and had an indistinct feeling of remote danger ; which though she could not define even to herself , it was new and painful to her to experience . 
But as the elastic mind of eighteen soon rebounds from the pressure of sorrow , and forgets in present enjoyment the prospect of evil , Adeline gazed on the elegant apartment she was in with joyful surprise ; while , through folding doors on either side of it , she beheld a suite of rooms , all furnished with a degree of tasteful simplicity such as she had never before beheld : and through the windows , which opened on a lawn that sloped to the banks of a rapid river , she saw an amphitheatre of wooded hills , which proved that , how great soever had been the efforts of art to decorate their new habitation , the hand of Nature had done still more to embellish it ; and all fear of sir Patrick was lost in gratitude for his having chosen such a retirement . 
With eager curiosity Adeline hurried from room to room ; admired in the western apartments the fine effect of the declining sun shining through rose-coloured window-curtains ; gazed with delight on the statues and pictures that every where met the eye , and reposed with unsuspecting gaiety on the couches of eider down which were in profusion around . 
Every thing in the house spoke it to be the temple of Pleasure : but the innocent Adeline and her unobservant mother saw nothing but elegant convenience in an abode in which the disciples of Epicurus might have delighted ; and while Æolian harps in the windows , and perfumes of all kinds , added to the enchantment of the scene , the bride only beheld in the choice of the villa a proof of her husband 's desire of making her happy ; and Adeline sighed for virtuous love and Glenmurray , as all that was wanting to complete her fascination . 
Sir Patrick , meanwhile , was not blind to the impressions made on Adeline by the beauty of the spot which he had chosen , though he was far from suspecting the companion she had pictured to herself as most fitted to enjoy and embellish it ; and pleased because she was pleased , and delighted to be regarded by her with such unusual looks of complacency , he gave himself up to his natural vivacity ; and Adeline passed a merry , if not a happy , evening with the bride and bridegroom . 
But the next morning she arose with the painful conviction as fresh as ever on her mind , that day would succeed to day , and yet she should not behold Glenmurray ; and that day would succeed to day , and still should she see O'Carrol , still be exposed to his noisy mirth , to his odious familiarities , which , though she taught herself to believe they proceeded merely from the customs of his country , and the nearness of their relationship , it was to her most painful to endure . 
Her only resource , therefore , from unpleasant thoughts was reading ; and she eagerly opened the cases of books in the library , which were unlocked . 
But , on taking down some of the books , she was disappointed to find none of the kind to which she had been accustomed . 
Mrs. Mowbray 's peculiar taste had led her , as we have before observed , to the perusal of nothing but political tracts , systems of philosophy , and Scuderi 's and other romances . 
Scarcely had the works of our best poets found their way to her library ; and novels , plays , and works of a lighter kind she was never in the habit of reading herself , and consequently had not put in the hands of her daughter . 
Adeline had , therefore , read Rousseau 's Contrat Social , but not his Julie ; Montesquieu 's Esprit des Loix , but not his Lettres Persannes ; and had glowed with republican ardour over the scenes of Voltaire 's Brutus , but had never had her pure mind polluted by the pages of his Candide . 
But Adeline , unprepared by any reading of the kind to receive and relish the poison contained in them , turned with disgust from pages so uncongenial to her feelings ; nor did her eye dwell delighted on any of the stores which the shelves contained , till she opened the Nouvelle Heloise ; and as soon as she had read a few letters in that enchanting work , she seated herself in the apartment but the moment before become disgusting toher ; and in a short time she forgot even Glenmurray himself , -- or rather , she gave his form to the eloquent lover of Julie . 
In vain did Adeline venture to say that Julie , like the works of Glenmurray , might be , perhaps , condemned by those who had never read a line of it . 
The book was prohibited ; and Adeline , with a reluctant hand , restored it to its place . 
Had she read it , the sacrifice which the guilty but penitent Julia makes to filial affection , and the respectable light in which the institution of marriage is held up to view , would have strengthened , no doubt , Adeline 's resolution to obey her mother , and give up Glenmurray ; and have led her to reconsider those opinions which taught her to think contemptible what ages and nations had been content to venerate . 
But it was decreed that every thing the mother of Adeline did should accelerate the fate of her devoted daughter . 
Disappointed in her hopes of finding amusement in reading , Adeline had recourse to walking ; and none of the beautiful scenes around remained long unexplored by her . 
In her rambles she but too frequently saw scenes of poverty and distress , which ill contrasted with the beauty of the house which she inhabited ; scenes , which even a small portion of the money expended there in useless decoration would have entirely alleviated : and they were scenes , too , which Adeline had been accustomed to relieve . 
The extreme of poverty in the cottage did not disgrace , on the Mowbray estate , the well-furnished mansion-house ; but Adeline , as we have observed before , was allowed to draw on her mother for money sufficient to prevent dustrious labour from knowing the distresses of want . 
cried Adeline to herself , as she beheld one spectacle of peculiar hardships : -- `` Surely my mother is not dependent on her husband ? 
Adeline found her mother alone ; and with a beating heart and a flushed cheek , she described the scene which she had witnessed , and begged to be restored to her old office of almoner on such occsaions . 
`` A sad scene , indeed , my dear Adeline ! '' 
`` I ca n't give the relief you ask without his assistance , '' replied her mother ; `` for , except a guinea or so , I have no loose cash about me for my own uses . 
asked Adeline mournfully . 
yes , -- I have a very handsome allowance settled on me ; but then at present he wants it himself -LRB- Adeline involuntarily clasped her hands together in an agony , and sighed deeply -RRB- . 
Adeline took the guinea : but it was very insufficient to pay for medical attendance , to discharge the rent due to a clamorous landlord , and to purchase several things necessary for the relief of the poor sufferers : therefore she added another guinea to it , and , not liking to relate her disappointment , sent the money to them , desiring the servant to say that she would see them the next morning , when she resolved to apply to sir Patrick for the relief which her mother could not give ; feeling at the same time the mournful conviction , that she herself , as well as her mother , would be in future dependent on his bounty . 
Though disposed to give way to mournful reflections on her own account , Adeline roused herself from the melancholy abstraction into which she was falling , by reflecting that she had still to plead the cause of the poor cottagers with sir Patrick ; and hearing he was in the house , she hastened to prefer her petition . 
Sir Patrick listened to her tone of voice , and gazed on her expressive countenance with delight : but when she had concluded her narration a solitary half-guinea was all he bestowed on her , saying , `` I am never roused to charity by the descriptions of others ; I must always see the distress which I am solicited to relieve . '' 
`` Then go with me to the cottage , '' exclaimed Adeline ; but to her great mortification he only smiled , bowed , and disappeared : and when he returned to supper , Adeline could scarcely prevail on herself to look at him without displeasure , and could not endure the unfeeling vivacity of his manner . 
Mortified and unhappy she next morning went to the cottage , reluctant to impart to its expecting inhabitants the ill success which she had experienced . 
But what was her surprise when they came out joyfully to meet her , and told her that a gentleman had been there that morning very early , had discharged their debts , and given them a sum of money for their future wants ! 
eagerly inquired Adeline : but that they said he refused to give ; and as he was in a horseman 's large coat , and held a handkerchief to his face , they were sure they should not know him again . 
A pleasing suspicion immediately came across Adeline 's mind that this benevolent unknown might be Glenmurray ; and the idea that he was perhaps unseen hovering round her , gave her one of the most exquisite feelings which she had ever known . 
But this agreeable delusion was soon dissipated by one of the children 's giving her a card which the kind stranger had dropped from his pocket ; and this card had on it `` Sir Patrick O'Carrol . '' 
At first it was natural for her to be hurt and disappointed at finding that her hopes concerning Glenmurray had no foundation in truth ; but her benevolence , and indeed regard for her mother 's happiness as well as her own , led her to rejoice in this unexpected proof of excellence in sir Patrick . 
-- He had evidently proved that he loved to do good by stealth , and had withdrawn himself even from her thanks . 
In a moment , therefore , she banished from her mind every trace of his unworthiness . 
She had done him injustice , and she sought refuge from the remorse which this consciousness inflicted on her , by going into the opposite extreme . 
From that hour , indeed , her complaisance to his opinions , and her attentions to him , were so unremitting and evident , that sir Patrick 's passion became stronger than ever , and his hopes of a return to it seemed to be built on a very strong foundation . 
Adeline had given all her former suspicions to the wind : daily instances of his benevolence came to her knowledge , and threw such a charm over all he said and did , that even the familiarity in his conduct , look , and manner towards her , appeared to her now nothing more than the result of the free manners of his countrymen ; -- and she sometimes could not help wishing sir Patrick to be known to , and intimate with , Glenmurray . 
But the moment was now at hand that was to unveil the real character of sir Patrick , and determine the destiny of Adeline . 
One day sir Patrick proposed taking his bride to see a beautiful ferme ornée at about twelve miles ' distance ; and if it answered the expectations which he had formed of it , they were determined to spend two or three days in the neighbourhood to enjoy the beauty of the grounds ; -- in that case he was to return in the evening to the Pavilion , and drive Adeline over the next morning to partake in their pleasure . 
The truth was , that sir Patrick , having , as he fondly imagined , gained Adeline 's affections , resolved to defer no longer the profligate attempt which he had long meditated ; and had contrived this excursion in order to insure his wife 's absence from home , and a tête-à-tête with her daughter , -- not doubting but that opportunity was alone wanting to enable him to succeed in his abandoned wishes . 
At an early hour the curricle was at the door , and sir Patrick , having handed his lady in , took leave of Adeline . 
He told her that he should probably return early in the evening , pressed her hand more tenderly than usual , and , springing into the carriage , drove off with a countenance animated with expected triumph . 
Adeline immediately set out on a long walk to the adjoining villages , visited the cottages near the Pavilion , and , having dined at an early hour , determined to pass the rest of the day in reading , provided it was possible for her to find any book in the house proper for her perusal . 
With this intention she repaired to an apartment called the library , but what in these times would be denominated a boudoir ; and this , even in Paris , would have been admired for its voluptuous elegance . 
-- On the table lay several costly volumes , which seemed to have been very lately perused by sir Patrick , as some of them were open , some turned down at particular passages : but as soon as she glanced her eye over their contents , Adeline indignantly threw them down again ; and , while her cheek glowed with the blush of offended modesty she threw herself on a sofa , and fell into a long and mournful reverie on the misery which awaited her mother , in consequence of her having madly dared to unite herself for life to a young libertine , who could delight in no other reading but what was offensive to good morals and to delicacy . 
Nor could she dwell upon this subject without recurring to her former fears for herself ; and so lost was she in agonising reflections , that it was some time before she recollected herself sufficiently to remember that she was guilty of an indecorum , in staying so long in an apartment which contained books that she ought not even to be suspected of having had an opportunity to peruse . 
Having once entertained this consciousness , Adeline hastily arose , and had just reached the door when sir Patrick himself appeared at it . 
She started back in terror when she beheld him , on observing in his countenance and manner evident marks not only of determined profligacy , but of intoxication . 
Her suspicions were indeed just . 
He had therefore stopped on the road to fortify his courage with wine ; and , luckily for Adeline , he had taken more than he was aware of ; for when , after a vehement declaration of the ardour of his passion , and protestations that she should that moment be his , he dared irreverently to approach her , Adeline , strong in innocence , aware of his intention , and presuming on his situation , disengaged herself from his grasp with ease ; and pushing him with violence from her , he fell with such force against the brass edge of one of the sofas , that , stunned and wounded by the fall , he lay bleeding on the ground . 
Adeline involuntarily was hastening to his assistance : but recollecting how mischievous to her such an exertion of humanity might be , she contented herself with ringing the bell violently to call the servants to his aid . 
Then , in almost frantic haste , she rushed out of the house , ran across the park , and when she recovered her emotion she found herself , she scarcely knew how , sitting on a turf seat by the road side . 
she wildly exclaimed : `` my mother 's roof is no longer a protection to me ; -- I can not absent myself from it without alleging a reason for my conduct , which will ruin her peace of mind for ever . 
At this moment , as she looked around in wild dismay , and raised her streaming eyes to heaven , she saw a man 's face peeping from between the branches of a tree opposite to her , and observed that he was gazing on her intently . 
Alarmed and fluttered , she instantly started from her seat , and was hastening away , when the man suddenly dropped from his hiding-place , and , running after her , called her by her name , and conjured her to stop ; while , with an emotion of surprise and delight , she recognised in him Arthur , the servant of Glenmurray ! 
Instantly , scarcely knowing what she did , she pressed the astonished Arthur 's rough hand in hers ; and by this action confused and confounded the poor fellow so much , that the speech which he was going to make faltered on his tongue . 
eagerly inquired Adeline . 
`` My master have sent you this , miss , '' replied Arthur , holding out a letter , which Adeline joyfully received ; and , spite of her intended obedience to her mother 's will , Glenmurray himself could not have met with a less favourable reception , for the moment was a most propitious one to his love : nor , as it happened , was Glenmurray too far off to profit by it . 
But to return to Adeline , who , while hastily tearing open the letter , asked Arthur where his master was , and heard with indescribable emotion that he was in the neighbourhood . 
she exclaimed , and proceeded to read the letter ; but her emotion forbade her to read it entirely . 
She only saw that it contained bank-notes ; that Glenmurray was going abroad for his health ; and , in case he should die there , had sent her the money which he had meant to leave her in his will , -- lest she should be , in the mean while , any way dependent on sir Patrick . 
Numberless conflicting emotions took possession of Adeline 's heart while this new proof of her lover 's attentive tenderness met her view ; and , as she contrasted his generous and delicate attachment with the licentious passion of her mother 's libertine husband , a burst of uncontrollable affection for Glenmurray agitated her bosom ; and , rendered superstitious by her fears , she looked on him as sent by Providence to save her from the dangers of her home . 
`` This is the second time , '' cried she , `` that Glenmurray , as my guardian angel , has appeared at the moment when I was exposed to danger from the same guilty quarter ! 
`` It is enough , '' said Adeline in a faltering voice , pressing the letter to her lips , and bursting into tears of grateful tenderness as she spoke : `` Lead me to your master directly . '' 
replied Adeline -- `` see the only friend I now can boast ? 
Instantly , guided by Arthur , Adeline set off full speed for the farm-house , nor stopped till she found herself in the presence of Glenmurray ! 
exclaimed Adeline , throwing herself into his arms ; while he was so overcome with surprise and joy that he could not speak the welcome which his heart gave her : and Adeline , happy to behold him again , was as silent as her lover . 
At length Glenmurray exclaimed : `` Do we then meet again , Adeline ! '' 
`` Yes , '' replied she ; `` and we meet to part no more . '' 
`` Do not mock me , '' cried Glenmurray starting from his seat , and seizing her extended hand ; `` my feelings must not be trifled with . '' 
`` But there is not a moment to be lost , '' cried Adeline : `` I may be missed and pursued : let us be gone directly . '' 
The first word was enough for Glenmurray : eager to secure the recovered treasure which he had thought for ever lost , his orders were given , and executed by the faithful Arthur with the utmost dispatch ; and even before Adeline had explained to him the cause of her resolution to elope with him they were on their road to Cornwall , meaning to embark at Falmouth for Lisbon . 
The next morning he saw sir Patrick himself driving full speed past the farm ; and having written immediately to his master , Adeline had the satisfaction of knowing that she had not purchased her own safety by the sufferings or danger of her persecutor , and the consequent misery of her mother . 
But Glenmurray 's heart needed no explanation of the cause of Adeline 's elopement . 
She was with him -- with him , as she said , for ever . 
True , she had talked of flying from misery and dishonour ; but he knew they could not reach her in his arms , -- not even dishonour according to the ideas of society , -- for he meant to make Adeline legally his as soon as they were safe from pursuit , and his illness was forgotten in the fond transport of the present moment . 
Adeline 's joy was of a much shorter duration . 
True it was that it was no longer possible for her to reside under the roof of her mother : -- but was it necessary for her to elope with Glenmurray ? 
the man whom she had solemnly promised her mother to renounce ! 
Then , on the other side , she argued that the appearance of love for Glenmurray was an excuse sufficient to conceal from her deluded parent the real cause of her elopement . 
`` It was my sole alternative , '' said she mentally : -- `` my mother must either suppose me an unworthy child , or know sir Patrick to be an unworthy husband ; and it will be easier for her to support the knowledge of the one than of the other : then , when she forgives me , as no doubt she will in time , I shall be happy : but that I could never be , while convinced that I had made her miserable by revealing to her the wickedness of sir Patrick . '' 
While this was passing in her mind , her countenance was full of such anxious and mournful expression , that Glenmurray , unable to keep silence any longer , conjured her to tell him what so evidently weighed upon her spirits . 
`` The difficulty that oppressed me is past , '' she replied , wiping from her eyes the tears which the thought of having left her mother so unexpectedly , and for the first time , produced . 
`` It seems to me so very rational to love you , '' returned Adeline tenderly , shocked at the sad expression of his countenance , `` that what seem to be the dictates of reason may be those of love only . '' 
To a reply like this , Glenmurray could only answer by those incoherent yet intelligible expressions of fondness to the object of them , which are so delightful to lovers themselves , and so uninteresting to other people : nay , so entirely was Glenmurray again engrossed by the sense of present happiness , that his curiosity was still suspended , and Adeline 's story remained untold . 
But Adeline 's pleasure was damped by painful recollections , and still more by her not being able to hide from herself the mournful consciousness that the ravages of sickness were but too visible in Glenmurray 's face and figure , and that the flush of unexpected delight could but ill conceal the hollow paleness of his cheek , and the sunk appearance of his eyes . 
Meanwhile the chaise rolled on , -- post succeeded to post ; and though night was far advanced , Adeline , fearful of being pursued , would not consent to stop , and they travelled till morning . 
But Glenmurray , feeling himself exhausted , prevailed on her , for his sake , to alight at a small inn on the road side near Marlborough . 
There Adeline narrated the occurrences of the past day ; but with difficulty could she prevail on herself to own to Glenmurray that she had been the object of such an outrage as she had experienced from sir Patrick . 
A truly delicate woman feels degraded , not flattered , by being the object of libertine attempts ; and , situated as Adeline and Glenmurray now were , to disclose the insult which had been offered to her was a still more difficult task : but to conceal it was impossible . 
She felt that , even to him , some justification of her precipitate and unsolicited flight was necessary ; and nothing but sir Patrick 's attempt could justify it . 
She therefore , blushing and hesitating , revealed the disgraceful secret : but such was its effect on the weak spirits and delicate health of Glenmurray , that the violent emotions which he underwent brought on a return of his most alarming symptoms ; and in a few hours Adeline , bending over the sick bed of her lover , experienced for the first time that most dreadful of feelings , fear for the life of the object of her affection . 
But before she left England Adeline wrote to her mother . 
After a pleasant and short voyage the lovers found themselves at Lisbon ; and Glenmurray , pursuant to his resolution , immediately proposed to Adeline to unite himself to her by the indissoluble ties of marriage . 
Nothing could exceed Adeline 's surprise at this proposal : at first she could not believe Glenmurray was in earnest ; but seeing that he looked not only grave but anxious , and as if earnestly expecting an answer , she asked him whether he had convinced himself that what he had written against marriage was a tissue of mischievous absurdity . 
`` I , '' replied Adeline , `` am entirely out of the question : you are to be governed by no other law but your desire to promote general utility , and are not to think at all of the interest of an individual . '' 
As Adeline said this , she twisted both her hands in her arms so affectionately , and looked up in his face with so satisfied and tender an expression , that Glenmurray could not bear to go on with a subject which evidently drew a cloud across her brow ; and hours , days , weeks , and months passed rapidly over their heads before he had resolution to renew it . 
Hours , days , weeks , and months spent in a manner most dear to the heart and most salutary to the mind of Adeline ! 
-- Her taste for books , which had hitherto been cultivated in a partial manner , and had led her to one range of study only , was now directed by Glenmurray to the perusal of general literature ; and the historian , the biographer , the poet , and the novelist , obtained alternately her attention and her praises . 
In her knowledge of the French and Italian languages , too , she was now considerably improved by the instructions of her lover ; and while his occasional illnesses were alleviated by her ever watchful attentions , their attachment was cemented by one of the strongest of all ties -- the consciousness of mutual benefit and assistance . 
Glenmurray , though conscious of the mistake he was under , had not resolution enough to avow that he was not married ; and Adeline , unaware of the difficulty of Glenmurray 's situation , received Mr. Maynard 's salutation with the utmost ease , though the tremor of her lover 's voice , and the blush on his cheek as he said -- `` Adeline , give me leave to introduce to you Mr. Maynard , an old friend of m ne , '' -- were sufficient indications that the rencontre disturbed him . 
In a few minutes Adeline and Mr. Maynard were no longer strangers . 
Mr. Maynard , who had not lived much in the society of well-informed women , and not at all in that of women accustomed to original thinking , was at once astonished and delighted at the variety of Adeline 's remarks , at the playfulness of her imagination , and the eloquence of her expressions . 
But it was very evident , at length , to Mr. Maynard , that in proportion as Adeline and he became more acquainted and more satisfied with each other , Glenmurray grew more silent and more uneasy . 
But no thought so vexatious to himself , and so degrading to Adeline , had entered the confiding and discriminating mind of Glenmurray . 
Adeline bowed , and expressed her impatience to form this new acquaintance ; and looked triumphantly at Glenmurray , meaning to express -- ` See , spite of the supposed prejudices of the world , here is a man who wants to introduce me to his sisters . ' 
Little did she know that Maynard concluded she was a wife : his absence from England had made him ignorant of the nature of Glenmurray 's works , or even that he was an author ; so that he was not at all likely to suppose that the moral , pious youth , whom he had always respected , was become a visionary philosopher , and , in defiance of the laws of society , was living openly with a mistress . 
`` And I should have liked to accept the invitation , '' replied Adeline ; `` but I will hope to see the ladies soon . '' 
`` There now , '' said Adeline , when he was out of hearing , `` I hope some of your tender fears are done away . 
Glenmurray shook his head , and remained silent ; and Adeline was distressed to feel by his burning hand that he was seriously uneasy . 
`` I shall certainly call on these ladies to-morrow , '' continued Adeline : -- `` I really pine for the society of amiable women . '' 
Even had he been capable of doing so dishonourable an action as introducing his mistress as his wife , he was sure that Adeline would have spurned at the deception ; and silent and sad he grasped Adeline 's hand as her arm rested within his , and , complaining of indisposition , slowly returned to the inn . 
The next morning at breakfast , Adeline again expressed her eagerness to form an acquaintance with the sisters of Mr. Maynard ; when Glenmurray , starting from his seat , paced the room in considerable agitation . 
cried Adeline , hastily rising and laying her hand on his arm . 
Glenmurray grasped her hand , and replied with assumed firmness : `` Adeline , it is impossible for you to form an acquaintance with Mr. Maynard 's sisters : propriety and honour both forbid me to allow it . '' 
exclaimed Adeline , `` are they not as amiable , then , as he described them ? 
The simple , ingenuous and acquiescent sweetness with which she said this , was a new pang to her lover : -- had she repined , had she looked ill-humoured , his task would not have been so difficult . 
resumed Adeline . 
Adeline started ; and , turning pale , exclaimed , `` Are you sure , then , that they do not know it already ? '' 
cried Adeline : `` is there any one so unfortunate as to be unacquainted with your writings ? '' 
`` So then , '' said Adeline mournfully , `` I am an improper companion for them , not they for me ! '' 
and spite of herself her eyes filled with tears . 
-- At this moment a waiter brought in a note for Glenmurray ; -- it was from Maynard , and as follows : MY DEAR FRIEND , Emily is better to-day ; and both my sisters are so impatient to see , and know , your charming wife , that they beg me to present their compliments to Mrs. Glenmurray and you ; and request the honour of your company to a late breakfast : -- at eleven o ' clock we hope to see you , Ever yours , G. M. `` We will send an answer , '' said Glenmurray : but the waiter had been gone some minutes before either Adeline or Glenmurray spoke . 
At length Adeline , struggling with her feelings , observed , `` Mr. Maynard seems so amiable a man , that I should think it would not be difficult to convince him of his errors : surely , therefore , it is your duty to call on him , state our real situation , and our reasons for it , and endeavour to convince him that our attachment is sanctioned both by reason and virtue . '' 
`` If age be necessary to give weight to arguments , '' returned Adeline , `` I wonder that you thought proper to publish four years ago . '' 
`` If you had not , I probably should never have been yours , '' replied Adeline , fondly leaning her head on his shoulder , and then looking up in his face . 
Glenmurray clasped her to his bosom ; but again the pleasure was mixed with pain . 
`` All this time , '' rejoined Adeline , `` your friends are expecting an answer : you had better carry it in person . '' 
`` O Adeline , the name of wife imposes restraint even on a libertine ; but that of mistress -- '' `` Is Mr. Maynard then a libertine ? '' 
said Adeline gravely : and Glenmurray , afraid of wounding her feelings by entering into a further explanation , changed the subject , and again requested her consent to leave Lisbon . 
`` I have often told you , '' said Adeline sighing , `` that my will is yours ; and if you will give strict orders to have letters sent after us to the towns that we shall stop at , I am ready to set off immediately . '' 
Maynard was impatient to see Adeline because he really admired her ; his sisters , because they hoped to find her unworthy of such violent admiration . 
Their vanity had been piqued , and their envy excited , by the extravagant praises of their brother ; and they had interrupted him by the first questions which all women ask on such occasions , -- `` Is she pretty ? '' 
`` Is she tall ? '' 
`` Is she fair ? '' 
When one woman calls another a prodigy , and expresses herself as unworthy to associate with her , it is very certain that she means to insult rather than compliment her ; and in this sense Mr. Maynard understood his sister 's words : therefore , after having listened with tolerable patience to a few more sneers at the unconscious Adeline , he was provoked to say that , ill-disposed as he found they were towards his new acquaintance , he hoped that when they became acquainted with her they would still give him reason to say , as he always had done , that he was proud of his sisters ; for , in his opinion , no woman ever looked so lovely as when she was doing justice to the merits and extenuating the faults of a rival . 
How injudiciously had Maynard prepared the minds of his sisters to admire Adeline ! 
It was a preparation to make them hate her ; and they were very impatient to begin the task of depreciating both her morale and her physique , when Glenmurray 's note arrived . 
He then broke the seal , and read out what follows : `` DEAR MAYNARD , `` When you receive this , Adeline and I shall be on our road to France , and you , -- start not ! 
`` So , so , jealous indeed , '' said Maynard to himself , and more impressed than ever with the charms of Adeline ; for he concluded that Glenmurray had discovered in her an answering prepossession . 
`` You saw Adeline ; you admired her ; and wished to introduce her to your sisters -- this , honour forbad me to allow '' -- -LRB- the sisters started from their seats -RRB- `` for Adeline is not my wife , but my companion . '' 
At this remark miss Maynard laughed heartily ; but Maynard , to hide his confusion , commanded silence , and went on with the letter : `` But , spite of her situation , strange as it may seem to you , believe me , no wife was ever more pure than Adeline . '' 
-- Glenmurray continued thus : `` You have no doubt yet to learn that some few years ago I commenced author , and published opinions contrary to the established usage of society : amongst other things I proved the absurdity of the institution of marriage ; and Adeline , who at an early age read my works , became one of my converts . '' 
`` But perhaps this fallen angel , brother , for such you will allow she is , spite of her purity , was as wicked as he . 
`` No wonder then , that , being forced to fly from her maternal roof , she took refuge in my arms . '' 
`` But though Adeline was the victim neither of her own weakness nor of my seductions , but was merely urged by circumstances to act up to the principles which she openly professed , I felt so conscious that she would be degraded in your eyes after you were acquainted with her situation , though in mine she appears as spotless as ever , that I could not bear to expose her even to a glance from you less respectful than those with which you beheld her last night . 
I therefore prevailed on her to leave Lisbon ; nor had I any difficulty in so doing , when she found that your wish of introducing her to your sisters was founded on your supposition of her being my wife , and that all chance of your desiring her acquaintance for them would be over , when you knew the nature of her connection with me . 
While these conversations were passing at Lisbon , Glenmurray and Adeline were pursuing their journey to France ; and insensibly did the charm of being together obliterate from the minds of each the rencontre which had so much disturbed them . 
But Adeline began to be uneasy on a subject of much greater importance ; she every day expected an answer from her mother , but no answer arrived ; and they had been stationary at Perpignan some days , to which place they had desired their letters to be addressed , poste restante , and still none were forwarded thither from Lisbon . 
The idea that her mother had utterly renounced her now took possession of her imagination , and love had no charm to offer her capable of affording her consolation : the care which she had taken of her infancy , the affectionate attentions that had preserved her life , and the uninterrupted kindness which she had shown towards her till her attachment to sir Patrick took place , -- all these pressed powerfully and painfully on her memory , till her elopement seemed wholly unjustifiable in her eyes , and she reprobated her conduct in terms of the most bitter self-reproach . 
At these moments even Glenmurray seemed to become the object of her aversion . 
Her mother had forbidden her to think of him ; yet , to make her flight more agonizing to her injured parent , she had eloped with him . 
But as soon as ever she beheld him he regained his wonted influenceover her heart , and her self-reproaches became less poignant : she became sensible that sir Patrick 's guilt and her mother 's imprudent marriage were the causes of her own fault , and not Glenmurray ; and could she but receive a letter of pardon from England , she felt that her conscience would again be at peace . 
But soon an idea of a still more harassing nature succeeded and overwhelmed her . 
Perhaps her desertion had injured her mother 's health ; perhaps she was too ill to write ; perhaps she was dead : -- and when this horrible supposition took possession of her mind she used to avoid even the presence of her lover ; and as her spirits commonly sunk towards evening , when the still renewed expectations of the day had been deceived , she used to hasten to a neighbouring church when the bell called to vespers , and , prostrate on the steps of the altar , lift up her soul to heaven in the silent breathings of penitence and prayer . 
Having thus relieved her heart she returned to Glenmurray , pensive but resigned . 
One evening after she had unburthened her feelings in this manner , Glenmurray prevailed on her to walk with him to a public promenade ; and being tired they sat down on a bench in a shady part of the mall . 
Glenmurray , pleased to see a friend whom he had once so highly valued , returned the salutation with marked cordiality ; while the ladies with great kindness accosted Adeline , and begged she would allow them the honour of her acquaintance . 
Taught by the rencontre at Lisbon , Adeline for a moment felt embarrassed ; but there was something so truly benevolent in the countenance of both ladies , and she was so struck by the extreme beauty of the younger one , that she had not resolution to avoid , or even to receive their advances coldly ; and while the gentlemen were commenting on each other 's looks , and in an instant going over the occurrences of past years , the ladies , pleased with each other , had entered into conversation . 
Glenmurray and Adeline both blushed deeply . 
said Adeline to herself , `` here will be another letter to write when we get home ; '' for , though ingenuousness was one of her most striking qualities , she had not resolution enough to tell her new acquaintance that she was not married : besides , she flattered herself , that , could she once interest these charming women in her favour , they would not refuse her their society even when they knew her real situation ; for she thought them too amiable to be prejudiced , as she called it , and was not yet aware how much the perfection of the female character depends on respect even to what may be called the prejudices of others . 
He therefore made no allusions to Glenmurray 's opinions that could give him an opportunity of explaining his real situation ; and he saw with confusion , that every moment increased the intimacy of Adeline and the wife and sister of his friend . 
At length his feelings operated so powerfully on his weak frame , that a sudden faintness seized him , and supported by Adeline and the major , and followed by his two kind companions , he returned to the inn : there , to get rid of the Douglases and avoid the inquiries of Adeline , who suspected the cause of his illness , he immediately retired to bed . 
Unexposed , therefore , to feel those petty jealousies , those paltry competitions which injure the character of women in general , Emma Douglas 's mind was the seat of benevolence and candour , -- as was her beautiful sister 's from a different cause ; and they were both warmer even than the major in praise of Adeline . 
Mr. Maynard , full of Glenmurray 's letter , and still more deeply impressed than ever with the image of Adeline , could not forbear writing to the major on the subject ; giving as a reason , that he wished to let him know the true state of affairs , in order that he might avoid Glenmurray ... The letter came too late . 
-- Glenmurray had not introduced Adeline : and this was gently hinted by the kind and candid Emma Douglas ; while the younger and more inexperienced wife sat silent with consternation , at having pressed with the utmost kindness the hand of a kept mistress . 
Without considering the difficulty of such a proceeding , he insisted upon it that Glenmurray should have led Adeline away instantly , as unworthy to breathe the same air with his wife and sister . 
`` You find by that letter , brother , '' said miss Douglas , `` that this unhappy Adeline is still an object of respect in his eyes , and he could not wound her feelings so publicly , especially as she seems to be more ill-judging than vicious . '' 
-- The major was a soldier , and so delicate in his ideas of the honour of women , that he thought his wife and sister polluted from having , though unconsciously , associated with Adeline : being violently irritated therefore at the supposed insult offered him by Glenmurray , he left the room , and , having dispatched a challenge to him , told the ladies he had letters to write to England till bed-time arrived : then , after having settled his affairs in case he should fall in the conflict , he sat brooding alone over the insolence of his former friend . 
As Adeline and Glenmurray were both retired for the night when the major 's note arrived , it was not delivered till morning , -- nor then , luckily , till Adeline , supposing Glenmurray asleep , was gone to take her usual walk to the post-office : Glenmurray , little aware of its contents , opened it , and read as follows : `` SIR , `` For your conduct in introducing your mistress to my wife and sister , I demand immediate satisfaction . 
He related his commencing author , -- the nature of his works , -- his acquaintance with Adeline , -- its consequences , -- her mother 's marriage , -- sir Patrick 's villany , -- Adeline 's elopement , her refusal to marry him , and the grounds on which it was founded . 
Let the consequences to my reputation be what they may , let your insults be what they may , I will not accept your challenge ; I will not expose Adeline to the risk of being left without a protector in a foreign land , and probably without one in her own . 
I fear that , in the natural course of things , I shall not continue with her long ; but , while I can watch over her and contribute to her happiness , no dread of shame , no fear for what others may think of me , no selfish consideration whatever shall induce me to hazard a life which belongs to her , and on which at present her happiness depends . 
I think , Douglas , you are incapable of treating me with indignity ; but even to that I will patiently submit , rather than expose my life ; while , consoled by my motive , I will triumphantly exclaim -- ` See , Adeline , what I can endure for thy sake ! 
`` Aye , it is indeed , '' replied Glenmurray ; `` and , spite of ridicule , I would marry Adeline directly , as I said before , to guaranty her against reproach . 
-- I wish you would try to persuade her to be mine legally . '' 
`` That I will , '' eagerly replied the major ; `` I am sure I shall prevail with her . 
I am sure I shall soon convince her that the opinions she holds are nothing but nonsense . '' 
`` You will find , '' replied Glenmurray , blushing , `` that her arguments are unanswerable notwithstanding . '' 
`` So I did ; and I wish she could forget it also : and then they would appear to her , as they must do no doubt to all people of common sense , and that is , abominable stuff . '' 
Emma , almost equally affected , gave her hand to Glenmurray , and told him nothing on her part should be omitted to prevail on Adeline to sacrifice her opinions to her welfare . 
`` Aye , '' cried Emma , `` and sure of succeeding with this interesting Adeline too ; for if she likes us , as I think she does -- '' `` She adores you , '' replied Glenmurray . 
`` So much the better : -- then , when we shall tell her that we can not associate with her , much as we admire her , unless she consents to become a wife , surely she will hear reason . '' 
`` No doubt , '' cried Mrs. Douglas ; `` and then we will go to church with her , and you , Emma , shall be bride 's maid . '' 
This point being settled , it was agreed that Glenmurray should prepare Adeline for their visit ; and with a lightened heart he went to execute his commission . 
But when he saw Adeline he forgot his commission and every thing but her distress ; for he found her with an open letter in her hand , and an unopened one on the floor , in a state of mind almost bordering on phrensy . 
As soon as Adeline beheld Glenmurray , `` See ! '' 
she exclaimed in a hoarse and agitated tone , `` there is my letter to my mother , returned unopened , and here is a letter from Dr. Norberry which has broken my heart : -- however , we must go to England directly . '' 
Dear , lost Adeline , I prayed for you too ! 
He then proceeded to inform Adeline , who had written to him to implore his mediation between her and her mother , `` that the latter had sent express for him on finding , by the hasty scrawl which came the day after Adeline 's departure from the farm-house , that she had eloped , and who was the companion of her flight ; that he found her in violent agitation , as sir Patrick , stung to madness at the success of his rival , had with an ingenuousness worthy a better cause avowed to her his ardent passion for her daughter , his resolution to follow the fugitives , and by every means possible separate Adeline from her lover ; and that , after having thanked lady O'Carrol for her great generosity to him , he had taken his pistols , mounted his horse , attended by his groom also well armed , and vowed that he would never return unless accompanied by the woman whom he adored . '' 
To you she attributes all the misery of having lost the man on whom she still dotes ; and when she found from your last letter to me that you are not the wife but the mistress of Glenmurray , -LRB- by the bye , your letter to her from Lisbon she desires me to return unopened , -RRB- and that the child once her pride is become her disgrace , she declared her solemn resolution never to see you more , and to renounce you for ever -- -LRB- Terrible words , Adeline , I tremble to write them -RRB- . 
But a circumstance has since occurred which gives me hopes that she may yet forgive , and receive you on certain conditions . 
-- O Adeline , child of my affection , why must I blush to subscribe myself `` Your sincere friend , `` J. N. ? '' 
Words can not describe the feelings of anguish which this letter excited in Adeline : nor could she make known her sensations otherwise than by reiterated requests to be allowed to set off for England directly , -- requests to which Glenmurray , alarmed for her intellects , immediately assented . 
Adeline and Glenmurray were amongst the first : and while heart-sick , fatigued , and melancholy , Adeline took the arm of her lover , and turned disgusted from the brilliant groups before her , she saw , walking along the shore , Dr. Norberry , his wife , and his two daughters . 
Astonished and confounded , Adeline had not power to articulate a word ; and had not Glenmurray caught her in his arms , she would have fallen to the ground . 
even my oldest and best friend renounces me , '' she exclaimed . 
Adeline sighed . 
She could not say , as she had formerly done , `` and you are all to me . '' 
The image of her mother , happy as the wife of a man she loved , could not long rival Glenmurray ; but the mage of her mother , disgraced and wretched , awoke all the habitual but dormant tenderness of years ; every feeling of filial gratitude revived in all its force ; and , even while leaning on the shoulder of her lover , she sighed to be once more clasped to the bosom of her mother . 
replied Adeline shuddering . 
Adeline clung close to his arm , her eyes filled with tears , and all the way to the inn she thought only of Glenmurray with an apprehension which she could not conquer . 
Adeline took up her pen . 
Letter succeeded to letter ; but not one of them answered her wishes . 
`` It is too soon to ring for candles , '' said Glenmurray , putting his arm round her waist and leading her to the window . 
Adeline , reclining her cheek on Glenmurray 's arm , gazed in silence on the scene before her ; when the door suddenly opened , and a gentleman was announced . 
It was now so dark that all objects were indistinctly seen , and the gentleman had advanced close to Adeline before she knew him to be Dr. Norberry : and before she could decide how she should receive him , she felt herself clasped to his bosom with the affection of a father . 
Surprised and affected , she could not speak ; and Glenmurray had ordered candles before Adeline had recovered herself sufficiently to say these words , `` After your conduct on the beach , I little expected this visit . '' 
`` No , '' cried Adeline : `` I became the mistress of Mr. Glenmurray from the dictates of my reason , not my weakness or his persuasions . '' 
`` Because I would not consent , '' said Adeline coldly . 
`` I should think , '' replied Adeline coldly , `` my mother must have had too much of marriage to wish me to marry ; but if she should insist on my marrying , I will comply , and on no other account . '' 
Adeline and Glenmurray were both of them deeply and painfully affected ; and the latter was going to express what he felt , when the doctor , seizing Adeline 's hand , affectionately exclaimed , `` Well , my poor child ! 
Adeline burst into tears . 
So saying he departed ; and all other considerations were again swallowed up in Adeline 's mind by the idea of Glenmurray 's danger . 
cried Adeline after a pause . 
`` If I thought so , '' said Adeline : `` but no -- regard for my supposed interest merely makes you say so ; and indeed I should not think so well of you as I now do , If I imagined that you could be made easy by an action by which you forfeited all pretensions to that consistency of character so requisite to the true dignity of a philosopher . '' 
This blunt but benevolent man had returned the evening before slowly and pensively to his lodgings , his heart full of pity for the errors of the well-meaning enthusiasts whom he had left , and his head full of plans for their assistance , or rather for that of Adeline . 
Sometimes , indeed , this last subject was sooner exhausted than the one which she had chosen ; but when Adeline grew up , and became as it were the rival of her daughters in the praises of her husband , she found it difficult , as we have said before , to bring faults in array against excellencies . 
But when Adeline became the object of the husband 's admiration and the wife 's enmity , Mrs. Norberry could not make these pertinent remarks , as Adeline was as conversant with all branches of housewifery as herself ; and , though as learned in all systems as her mother , was equally learned in the component parts of puddings and pies . 
She was therefore at a loss what to say when Adeline was praised by the doctor ; and all she could observe on the occasion was , that the girl might be clever , but was certainly very ugly , very affected , and very conceited . 
It is not to be wondered at , therefore , that Mrs. Mowbray 's degrading and unhappy marriage , and Adeline 's elopement , should have been sources of triumph to Mrs. Norberry and her daughters ; who , though they liked Mrs. Mowbray very well , could not bear Adeline . 
`` I always was , my dear , '' meekly replied the mortified and afflicted doctor , and dropped the subject as soon as possible ; nor had it been resumed for some time when Adeline accosted them on the beach at Brighton . 
But her appearance called forth their dormant enmity ; and the whole way to their lodgings the good doctor heard her guilt expatiated upon with as much violence as ever : but just as they got home he coldly and firmly observed , `` I shall certainly call on the poor deluded girl this evening . '' 
It was to a wife and daughters such as these that he was returning , with the benevolent wish of interesting them for the guilty Adeline . 
`` It never will , '' said her mother proudly : `` she has been differently brought up . '' 
Had Adeline , my children , had such a mother as yours , she would have been like you . '' 
`` And I dare say , dame , I do no more than justice to you , when I think you will approve and further a plan for Adeline Mowbray 's good , which I am going to propose to you . '' 
`` I have promised this poor girl to endeavour to bring about a reconciliation between her and her mother : but though Adeline wishes to receive her pardon on any terms , and even , if it be required , to renounce her lover , I fear Mrs. Mowbray is too much incensed against her , to see or forgive her . '' 
`` You have said enough , '' cried the doctor exultingly ; `` then hear my plan : Adeline shall , in the event of Glenmurray 's death , which though not certain seems likely ... to be sure , I could not inquire into the nature of his nocturnal perspirations , his expectoration , and so forth ... '' `` Dear papa , you are so professional ! '' 
`` Well , child , I have done ; and to return to my subject : -- if Glenmurray lives or dies , I think it advisable that Adeline should go into retirement to lie-in . 
And where can she be better than in my little cottage now empty , within a four-miles ride of our house ? 
If she wants protection , I can protect her ; and if she wants money before her mother forgives her , you can give it to her . '' 
The doctor started from his chair , and embraced his daughters with joy mixed with wonder ; for he knew they had always disliked Adeline . 
-- True ; but then , she was prosperous , and their superior . 
Little minds love to bestow protection ; and it was easy to be generous to the fallen Adeline Mowbray : had her happiness continued , so would their hatred . 
asked the doctor , chucking his wife under the chin ; when , to his great surprise and consternation , she threw his hand indignantly from her , and vociferated , `` She shall never live within a ride of our house , I can assure you , Dr. Norberry . '' 
And what more likely to reawaken them than the young and frail Adeline Mowbray living in a cottage of her husband 's , protected , supported , and visited by him ! 
The moment this idea occurred , its influence was unconquerable ; and with a voice and manner of determined hostility she made known her resolves in consequence of it . 
The young ladies obeyed ; but first hung round their mother 's neck , as they bade her good night , and hoped she would not be so cruel to the poor deluded Adeline . 
The doctor sighed deeply ; turned himself round , not to sleep but to think , and rose unrefreshed the next morning to go in search of Mrs. Mowbray , dreading the interview which he was afterwards to have with Adeline ; for he did not expect to succeed in his application to her mother , and he could not now soften his intelligence with a ` but , ' as he intended . 
`` True , '' he meant to have said to her , `` your mother will not receive you ; but if you ever want a home or a place of retirement , I have a cottage , and so forth . '' 
Dr. Norberry was certainly now not in a humour to sooth any woman whom he thought in the wrong , except his wife ; and , whether from carelessness or design , he did not , unfortunately for Adeline , manage the self-love of her unhappy mother . 
Now do write , and tell Adeline , who is by this time in London , that you forgive her . '' 
Had I no other cause of complaint against her ; -- had she not by her coquettish arts seduced the affections of the man I loved ; -- never , never would I forgive her having violated the sacred promise which she gave me . '' 
`` A promise , '' interrupted the doctor , `` which she would never have violated , had not you first violated that sacred compact which you entered into at her birth . '' 
`` I mean , that though a parent does not , at a child 's birth , solemnly make a vow to do all in his or her power to promote the happiness of that child , -- still , as he has given it birth , he has tacitly bound himself to make it happy . 
-- Adeline ! 
-- Why , the poor soul came broken-hearted and post haste from France , when she heard of your misfortunes , to offer her services to console you . '' 
`` She console me ? 
-- she , the first occasion of them ? 
-- But for her , I might still have indulged the charming delusion , even if it were delusion , that love of me , not of my wealth , induced the man I doted upon to commit a crime to gain possession of me . '' 
hastily interrupted the doctor , `` every one saw that he loved her long before he married you . '' 
The storm , long gathering , now burst forth ; and rising , with the tears , high colour , and vehement voice of unbridled passion , Mrs. Mowbray exclaimed , raising her arm and clenching her fist as she spoke , `` And it is being the object of that cruel preference , which I never , never will forgive her ! '' 
He then slowly walked to the hotel , where he expected to find Adeline and Glenmurray . 
They had arrived about two hours before ; and Adeline in a frame of mind but ill fitted to bear the disappointment which awaited her . 
For , with the sanguine expectations natural to her age , she had been castle-building as usual ; and their journey to London had been rendered a very short one , by the delightful plans , for the future , which she had been forming and imparting to Glenmurray . 
`` When I consider , '' said she , `` the love which my mother has always shown for me , I can not think it possible that she can persist in renouncing me ; and however her respect for the prejudices of the world , a world which she intended to live in at the time of her unfortunate connexion , might make her angry at my acting in defiance of its laws , -- now that she herself , from a sense of injury and disgrace , is about to retire from it , she will no longer have a motive to act contrary to the dictates of reason herself , or to wish me to do so . '' 
Adeline , when animated by any prospect of happiness , was irresistible : she was really Hope herself , as described by Collins -- `` But thou , oh Hope ! 
and Glenmurray , as he listened to her , forgot his illness ; forgot every thing , but what Adeline chose to imagine . 
The garden was laid out ; Mrs. Mowbray 's library planned ; and so completely were they lost in their charming prospects for the future , that every turnpike-man had to wait a longer time than he was accustomed to for his money ; and the postillion had driven into London in the way to the hotel , before Adeline recollected that she was , for the first time , in a city which she had long wished most ardently to see . 
Adeline from the window had seen him coming ; and sure as she thought herself to be of her mother 's forgiveness , she turned sick and faint when the decisive moment was at hand ; and , hurrying out of the room , she begged Glenmurray to receive the doctor , and apologize for her absence . 
Glenmurray began immediately to tremble for the peace of Adeline ; and , hastily pouring out a glass of wine , was on the point of drinking it when Dr. Norberry enterred . 
`` Come , I 'll give you a toast , '' cried the doctor : `` Here is -- '' At this moment Adeline entered . 
She had heard the doctor 's last words , and she thought he was going to drink to the reconciliation of her mother and herself ; and hastily opening the door she came to receive the good news which awaited her . 
But , at sight of her , the toast died unfinished on her old friend 's lips ; he swallowed down the wine in silence , and then taking her hand led her to the sofa . 
Adeline 's heart began to die within her ; and before the doctor , after having taken a pinch of snuff , and blowed his nose full three times , was prepared to speak , she was convinced that she had nothing but unwelcome intelligence to receive ; and she awaited in trembling expectation an answer to a `` Well , sir , '' from Glenmurray spoken in a tone of fearful emotion . 
said Adeline , catching hold of the arm of the sofa for support ; and in an instant Glenmurray was by her side . 
exclaimed Adeline . 
cried the doctor , turning round and seeing the situation into which his words had thrown Adeline , who was then lying immoveable in Glenmurray 's arms . 
But she did not long remain so , and with a frantic scream kept repeating the words `` She detests me ! '' 
till , unable to contend any longer with the acuteness of her feelings , she sunk , sobbing convulsively , exhausted on the bed to which they carried her . 
When Adeline recovered , she ardently conjured Dr. Norberry to procure her an interview with her mother ; contending that it was absolutely impossible to suppose , that the sight of a child so long and tenderly loved should not renew a little of her now dormant affection . 
`` I will , '' replied Adeline : and leaning on the arm of her lover , she slowly followed the doctor to her mother 's hotel . 
`` This is the most awful moment of my life , '' said Adeline . 
`` If Mrs. Mowbray forgives you , it will be probably on condition that -- '' `` Whatever be the conditions , I must accept them , '' said Adeline . 
Adeline , with a look of agony , pressed the arm she held to her bosom . 
`` And can you think , '' answered Adeline , `` that my happiness can be independent of yours ? 
At last Adeline grasped her lover 's hand , bade him wait for her at the end of the street , and with some degree of firmness she entered the vestibule , and asked for Dr. Norberry . 
-- `` Yes , -- Adeline was indeed my joy , my pride . '' 
At this unpropitious moment `` a lady to Dr. Norberry '' was announced , and Adeline tottered into the room . 
Adeline threw back her veil , and , falling on her knees , stretched out her arms in an attitude of entreaty : speak she could not , but her countenance was sufficiently expressive of her meaning ; and her pale sunk cheek spoke forcibly to the heart of her mother . 
-- At this moment , when a struggle which might have ended favourably for Adeline was taking place in the mind of Mrs. Mowbray , Dr. Norberry injudiciously exclaimed , `` There , -- there she is ! 
exclaimed Adeline . 
cried Adeline , gathering courage from despair , and approaching her : `` I have grievously erred , and will cheerfully devote the rest of my life to endeavour , by the most submissive obedience and attention , to atone for my past guilt . '' 
I say : your presence conjures up recollections which distract me , and I solemnly swear -- '' `` Hold , hold , if you have any mercy in your nature , '' cried Adeline almost frantic : `` this is , I feel but too sensibly , the most awful and important moment of my life ; on the result of this interview depends my future happiness or misery . 
The eager and animated volubility with which Adeline spoke made it impossible to interrupt her , even had Mrs. Mowbray been inclined to do so : but she was not ; nor , when Adeline had done speaking , could she find in her heart to break silence . 
`` Go nearer her , my child , '' said he in a low voice to Adeline , `` embrace her knees . '' 
Adeline rose , and approached Mrs. Mowbray : she seized her hand , she pressed it to her lips . 
Mrs. Mowbray 's bosom heaved violently : she almost returned the pressure of Adeline 's hand . 
Mrs. Mowbray turned round and fixed her eyes on Adeline with a look of kindness , and Adeline 's began to sparkle with delight ; when , as she threw back her cloak , which , hanging over her arm , embarrassed her as she knelt to embrace her mother 's knees , Mrs. Mowbray 's eyes glanced from her face to her shape . 
Adeline wrapped her cloak round her , and sunk terrified and desponding on the ground . 
cried Dr. Norberry : `` and after all , I tell you again , that Adeline has something to forgive and forget too ; and she sets you an example of christian charity in coming hither to console and comfort you , poor forsaken woman as you are ! '' 
cried Adeline , almost indignantly , `` and can that wretch , though dead , still have power to influence my fate in this dreadful manner ? 
`` Then I feel that you will forgive me soon , '' faintly articulated Adeline sinking on the ground ; while Mrs. Mowbray was leaving the room , and Dr. Norberry was standing motionless with horror , from the rash oath which he had just heard . 
But Adeline 's fall aroused him from his stupor . 
Mrs. Mowbray turned back , and started with horror at beholding the countenance of Adeline . 
cried she eagerly , `` and have I killed her ? '' 
These words , spoken in a faltering tone , and with a look of anxiety , seemed to recall the fleeting spirit of Adeline . 
She looked up at her mother , a sort of smile quivered on her lip ; and faintly articulating `` I am better , '' she burst into a convulsive flood of tears , and laid her head on the bosom of her compassionate friend . 
The apparent danger of Adeline had awakened her long dormant tenderness : but she had just bound herself by an oath not to give way to it , except under circumstances the most unwelcome and affecting , and had therefore embittered her future days with remorse and unavailing regret . 
-- For some minutes she stood looking wildly and mournfully on Adeline , longing to clasp her to her bosom , and pronounce her pardon , but not daring to violate her oath . 
At length , `` I can not bear this torment , '' she exclaimed , and rushed out of the room : and when in another apartment , she recollected , and uttered a scream of agony as she did so , that she had seen Adeline probably for the last time ; for , voluntarily , she was now to see her no more . 
The same recollection occurred to Adeline ; and as the door closed on her mother , she raised herself up , and looked eagerly to catch the last glimpse of her gown , as the door shut it from her sight . 
`` Let us go away directly now , '' said she , `` for the air of this room is not good for me . '' 
The doctor , affected beyond measure at the expression of quiet despair with which she spoke , went out to order a coach ; and Adeline instantly rose , and kissed with fond devotion the chair on which her mother had sat . 
Suddenly she heard a deep sigh -- it came from the next room -- perhaps it came from her mother ; perhaps she could still see her again : and with cautious step she knelt down and looked through the key-hole of the door . 
She did see her mother once more . 
said Adeline to herself : `` but I can at least bid her farewell here . '' 
She then put her mouth to the aperture , and exclaimed , `` Mother , dearest mother ! 
At this moment a noise in the next room convinced Adeline that her mother had fallen down in a fainting fit , and the doctor entered the room . 
Raising up Mrs. Mowbray in his arms , he laid her on the bed , while Adeline bent over her in silent anguish , with all the sorrow of filial anxiety . 
But when the remedies which Dr. Norberry administered began to take effect , she exclaimed , `` For the last time ! 
and pressed her head to her bosom , and kissed her pale lips with almost frantic emotion . 
Mrs. Mowbray opened her eyes : they met those of Adeline , and instantly closed again . 
`` She has looked at me for the last time , '' said Adeline ; `` and now this one kiss , my mother , and farewell for ever ! '' 
So saying she rushed out of the room , and did not stop till she reached the coach , and , springing into it , was received into the arms of Glenmurray . 
`` You are my all now , '' said she . 
`` You have long been mine , '' replied he : but respecting the anguish and disappointment depicted on her countenance , he forbore to ask for an explanation ; and resting her pale cheek on his bosom , they reached the inn in silence . 
Adeline had walked up and down the room a number of times , had as often looked out of the window , before Dr. Norberry , whom she had been anxiously expecting and looking for , made his appearance . 
said she , seizing his hand as he entered . 
replied Adeline . 
`` I know not yet , '' answered Adeline mournfully : `` as yet I am stunned by the blow which I have received : but pray tell me what has passed between you and my mother since we left the hotel . '' 
exclaimed Adeline . 
cried Adeline , again bursting into tears . 
-LRB- Adeline motioned to him to go on , and he continued . -RRB- 
Dr. Norberry , '' cried Adeline reproachfully , `` I doubt , by awakening her pride , you destroyed the tenderness returning towards me . '' 
`` Then , '' continued Adeline in a faltering voice , `` I care not how long she hates me . '' 
Dr. Norberry looked at Adeline a moment with tears in his eyes , and evidently gulped down a rising sob . 
cried Adeline . 
cried Adeline . 
exclaimed Adeline . 
If , indeed , you mean to marry Mr. Glenmurray -- '' `` Which I shall not do , '' replied Adeline coldly . 
-- Adeline , my child , God bless you ! 
`` Now , then , '' said Adeline , her tears dropping fast as she spoke , `` now , then , we are alone in the world ; henceforward we must be all to each other . '' 
`` Is the idea a painful one , Adeline ? '' 
`` Not so , '' returned Adeline . 
They must have you and your happiness for their sole object ; I must live for you alone : and you , '' added she in a faltering voice , `` must live for me . '' 
`` I will live as long as I can , '' replied Glenmurray sighing , `` and as one step towards it I shall keep early hours : so to rest , dear Adeline , and let us forget our sorrows as soon as possible . '' 
The next morning Adeline 's and Glenmurray 's first care was to determine on their future residence . 
said Glenmurray : and Adeline , to whom the idea of dwelling on a spot at once so classical and beautiful was most welcome , joyfully consented ; and in a few days they were settled there in a pleasant but expensive lodging . 
But here , as when abroad , Glenmurray occasionally saw old acquaintances , many of whom were willing to renew their intercourse with him for the sake of being introduced to Adeline ; and who , from a knowledge of her situation , presumed to pay her that sort of homage , which , though not understood by her , gave pangs unutterable to the delicate mind of Glenmurray . 
`` Were she my wife , they dared not pay her such marked attention , '' said he to himself ; and again , as delicately as he could , he urged Adeline to sacrifice her principles to the prejudices of society . 
`` I thought , '' replied Adeline gravely , `` that , as we lived for each other , we might act independent of society , and serve it by our example even against its will . '' 
-- He did not like to own how painful and mischievous he found in practice the principles which he admired in theory -- and Adeline continued : `` Believe me , Glenmurray , ours is the very situation calculated to urge us on in the pursuit of truth . 
Adeline smiled as she said this : but Glenmurray thought she spoke more in earnest than she was willing to allow ; and , alarmed at the threat , he only answered , `` You know it is for your sake merely that I speak , '' and dropped the subject ; secretly resolving , however , that he would not walk with Adeline in the fashionable promenades , at the hours commonly spent there by the beau monde . 
But , in spite of this precaution , they could not escape the assiduities of some gay men of fashion , who knew Glenmurray and admired his companion ; and Adeline at length suspected that Glenmurray was jealous . 
But in this she wronged him ; it was not the attention paid her , but the nature of it , that disturbed him . 
Nor is it to be wondered at that Adeline herself was eager to avoid the public walks , when it is known that one of her admirers at Richmond was the colonel Mordaunt whom she had become acquainted with at Bath . 
Colonel Mordaunt , `` curst with every granted prayer , '' was just beginning to feel the tedium of life , when he saw Adeline unexpectedly at Richmond ; and though he felt shocked at first , at beholding her in so different a situation from that in which he had first beheld her , still that very situation , by holding forth to him a prospect of being favoured by her in his turn , revived his admiration with more than its original violence , and he resolved to be , if possible , the lover of Adeline , after Glenmurray should have fallen a victim , as he had no doubt but he would , to his dangerous illness . 
But the opportunities which he had of seeing her suddenly ceased . 
She no longer frequented the public walks ; and him , though he suspected it not , she most studiously avoided ; for she could not bear to behold the alteration in his manner when he addressed her , an alteration perhaps unknown to himself . 
True , it was not insulting ; but Adeline , who had admired him too much at Bath not to have examined with minute attention the almost timid expression of his countenance , and the respectfulness of his manner when he addressed her , shrunk abashed from the ardent and impassioned expression with which he now met her , -- an expression which Adeline used to call `` looking like sir Patrick ; '' and which indicated even to her inexperience , that the admiration which he then felt was of a nature less pure and flattering than the one which she excited before ; and though in her own eyes she appeared as worthy of respect as ever , she was forced to own even to herself , that persons in general would be of a contrary opinion . 
But in vain did she resolve to walk very early in a morning only , being fully persuaded that she should then meet with no one . 
Colonel Mordaunt was as wakeful as she was ; and being convinced that she walked during some part of the day , and probably early in a morning , he resolved to watch near the door of her lodgings , in hopes to obtain an hour 's conversation with her . 
The consequence was , that he saw Adeline one morning walk pensively and alone , down the shady road that leads from the terrace to Petersham . 
This opportunity was not to be overlooked ; and he overtook and accosted her with such an expression of pleasure on his countenance , as was sufficient to alarm the now suspicious delicacy of Adeline ; and , conscious as she was that Glenmurray beheld colonel Mordaunt 's attentions with pain , a deep blush overspread her cheek at his approach , while her eyes were timidly cast down . 
Colonel Mordaunt saw her emotion , and attributed it to a cause flattering to his vanity ; it even encouraged him to seize her hand ; and , while he openly congratulated himself on his good fortune in meeting her alone , he presumed to press her hand to his lips . 
Adeline indignantly withdrew it , and replied very coldly to his inquiries concerning her health . 
Adeline answered this rhapsody by a look of astonishment only -- being silent from disgust and consternation , -- while involuntarily she quickened her pace , as if wishing to avoid him . 
interrupted Adeline , sighing deeply , `` my situation is now changed ; and -- '' `` It is so , I thank Fortune that it is so , '' replied colonel Mordaunt ; `` and I am happy to say , it is changed by no crime of mine . '' 
-LRB- Here Adeline started and turned pale . -RRB- 
Here he paused , as if in embarrassment , but Adeline was unable to interrupt him . 
`` It is , '' answered Adeline trembling with emotion . 
`` Then , as before long it is probable that you will be without -- without a protector -- '' -LRB- Adeline turned round and fixed her eyes wildly upon him . -RRB- 
`` To be sure , '' continued he , avoiding her steadfast gaze , `` I could wish to call you mine this moment ; but , unhappy as you appear to be in your present situation , I know , unlike many women circumstanced as you are , you are too generous and noble-minded to be capable of forsaking in his last illness the man whom in his happier moments you honoured with your love . '' 
As he said this , Adeline , her lips parched with agitation , and breathing short , caught hold of his arm ; and pressing her cold hand , he went on : `` Therefore , I will not venture even to wish to be honoured with a kind look from you till Mr. Glenmurray is removed to a happier world . 
exclaimed Adeline clasping her hands together , `` to what insults am I reserved ! '' 
`` Yes , sir , '' replied Adeline : `` you have insulted me , grossly insulted me , and know not the woman whom you have tortured to the very soul . '' 
`` And suppose I am not his wife , '' cried Adeline , `` is it then given to a wife only to be secure from being insulted by offers horrible to the delicacy , and wounding to the sensibility , like those which I have heard from you ? '' 
But before colonel Mordaunt could reply , Adeline 's thoughts had reverted to what he had said of Glenmurray 's certain danger ; and , unable to bear this confirmation of her fears , with the speed of phrensy she ran towards home , and did not stop till she was in sight of her lodging , and the still closed curtain of her apartment met her view . 
`` He is still sleeping , then , '' she exclaimed , `` and I have time to recover myself , and endeavour to hide from him the emotion of which I could not tell the reason . '' 
So saying , she softly entered the house , and by the time Glenmurray rose she had regained her composure . 
Still there was a look of anxiety on her fine countenance , which could not escape the penetrating eye of love . 
said Glenmurray , as Adeline seated herself at the breakfast table : -- `` I feel much better and more cheerful to-day . '' 
replied Adeline , fixing her tearful eyes on him . 
devoutly replied Adeline . 
`` I thought -- I thought -- '' Here tears choked her utterance , and Glenmurray drew from her a confession of her anxious fears for him , though she prudently resolved not to agitate him by telling him of the rencontre with colonel Mordaunt . 
But when the continued assurances of Glenmurray that he was better , and the animation of his countenance , had in a degree removed her fears for his life , she had leisure to revert to another source of uneasiness , and to dwell on the insult which she had experienced from colonel Mordaunt 's offer of protection . 
`` How strange and irrational , '' thought Adeline , `` are the prejudices of society ! 
As these reflections occurred to her , she could scarcely help regretting that her principles would not allow her delicacy and virtue to be placed under the sacred shelter bestowed by that ceremony which she was pleased to call idle . 
And she was not long without experiencing still further hardships from the situation in which she had persisted so obstinately to remain . 
Their establishment consisted of a footman and a maid servant ; but the latter had of late been so remiss in the performance of her duties , and so impertinent when reproved for her faults , that Adeline was obliged to give her warning . 
Shocked , surprised , and unable to answer , Adeline took refuge in her room . 
Never before had she been accosted by her inferiors without respectful attention ; and now , owing to her situation , even a servant-maid thought herself authorised to insult her , and to raise herself to her level ! 
`` But surely , '' said Adeline mentally , `` I ought to reason with her , and try to convince her that I am in reality as virtuous as if I were Glenmurray 's wife , instead of his mistress . '' 
Accordingly she went back into the kitchen ; but her resolution failed her when she found the footman there , listening with a broad grin on his countenance to the relation which Mary was giving him of the `` fine trimming '' which she had given `` madam . '' 
Scarcely did the presence of Adeline interrupt or restrain her ; but at last she turned round and said , `` And , pray , have you got any thing to say to me ? '' 
`` Nothing more now , '' meekly replied Adeline , `` unless you will follow me to my chamber . '' 
`` With all my heart , '' cried the girl ; and Adeline returned to her own room . 
`` I wish , Mary , to set you right , '' said Adeline , `` with respect to my situation . 
Adeline blushed and was silent : -- it certainly was her case . 
However , she took courage and went on : `` But mistresses , or kept ladies in general , are women of bad character , and would live with any man ; but I never loved , nor ever shall love , any man but Mr. Glenmurray . 
Adeline was again silent for a moment , but continued -- `` Mr. Glenmurray would marry me to-morrow , if I chose . '' 
cried Adeline , `` what an expression ! 
Adeline , shocked and disappointed , told her she might leave the room . 
`` But I shall not call myself so , '' replied Adeline . 
`` Neither she nor you , then , '' replied Adeline gravely , `` were sensible of what great importance a strict adherence to veracity is , to the interests of society . 
So saying she shut the door with violence , leaving Adeline mournfully musing on the distresses attending on her situation , and even disposed to question the propriety of remaining in it . 
The inquietude of her mind , as usual , showed itself in her countenance , and involved her in another difficulty : to make Glenmurray uneasy by an avowal of what had passed between her and Mary was impossible ; yet how could she conceal it from him ? 
And while she was deliberating on this point , Glenmurray entered the room , and tenderly inquired what had so evidently disturbed her . 
`` Nothing of any consequence , '' she faltered out , and burst into tears . 
`` Ashamed to own it to me , Adeline ? 
Adeline for a moment resolved to tell him the whole truth ; but , fearful of throwing him into a degree of agitation hurtful to his weak frame , she , who had the moment before so nobly supported the necessity of a strict adherence to truth , condescended to equivocate and evade ; and turning away her head , while a conscious blush overspread her cheek , she replied , `` You know that I look forward with anxiety and uneasiness to the time of my approaching confinement . '' 
Glenmurray believed her ; and overcome by some painful feelings , which fears for himself and anxiety for her occasioned him , he silently pressed her to his bosom ; and , choked with contending emotions , returned to his own apartment . 
cried Adeline , clasping her hands convulsively together : `` surely , surely , there must be something radically wrong in a situation which exposes one to such a variety of degradations ! '' 
Mary , meanwhile , had gone in search of a place ; and having found the lady to whom she had been advised to offer herself , at home , she returned to tell Adeline that Mrs. Pemberton would call in half an hour to inquire her character . 
The half-hour , an anxious one to Adeline , having elapsed , a lady knocked at the door , and inquired , in Adeline 's hearing , for Mrs. Glenmurray . 
`` Tell the lady , '' cried Adeline immediately from the top of the staircase , `` that miss Mowbray will wait on her directly . '' 
The footman obeyed , and Mrs. Pemberton was ushered into the parlour : and now , for the first time in her life , Adeline trembled to approach a stranger ; for the first time she felt that she was going to appear before a fellow-creature as an object of scorn , and , though an enthusiast for virtue , to be considered as a votary of vice . 
But it was a mortification which she must submit to undergo ; and hastily throwing a large shawl over her shoulders , to hide her figure as much as possible , with a trembling hand she opened the door , and found herself in the dreaded presence of Mrs. Pemberton . 
Adeline curtsied in silence . 
Mrs. Pemberton bowed her head courteously ; then , with a countenance of great sweetness , and a voice calculated to inspire confidence , said , `` I believe thy name is Mowbray ; but I came to see Mrs. Glenmurray : and as on these occasions I always wish to confer with the principal , wouldst thou , if it be not inconvenient , ask the mistress of Mary to let me see her ? '' 
`` I am myself the mistress of Mary , '' replied Adeline in a faint voice . 
Here Adeline changed colour , overcome with the consciousness that she ought to undeceive her , and the sense of the difficulty of doing so . 
`` Mr. Glenmurray , but not my husband , '' said Adeline , `` is better to-day . '' 
`` I am , '' replied Adeline , her paleness yielding to a deep crimson , and her eyes filling with tears . 
`` She can be an excellent servant , '' faltered out Adeline . 
So saying she reached the door : but as she passed Adeline she stopped , interested and affected by the mournful expression of her countenance , and the visible effort she made to retain her tears . 
Adeline saw , and felt humbled at the compassion which her countenance expressed : to be an object of pity was as mortifying as to be an object of scorn , and she turned her eyes on Mrs. Pemberton with a look of proud indignation : but they met those of Mrs. Pemberton fixed on her with a look of such benevolence , that her anger was instantly subdued ; and it occurred to her that she might make the benevolent compassion visible in Mrs. Pemberton 's countenance serviceable to her discarded servant . 
`` I suspect , '' said Adeline , -LRB- gathering courage from the conscious kindness of her motive , -RRB- that your objection to take Mary Warner into your service proceeds wholly from the situation of her present mistress . '' 
`` Nor do I wonder , '' continued Adeline , `` that you make this objection , when I consider the present prejudices of society . '' 
Adeline faintly smiled , and went on -- `` But surely you will allow , that in a family quiet and secluded as ours , and in daily contemplation of an union uninterrupted , faithful , and virtuous , and possessing all the sacredness of marriage , though without the name , it is not likely that the young woman in question should have imbibed any vicious habits or principles ? '' 
`` On this point , '' cried Adeline , `` I see we must disagree -- I shall therefore , without further preamble , inform you , madam , that Mary , aware of the difficulty of procuring a service , if it were known that she had lived with a kept mistress , as the phrase is -LRB- here an indignant blush overspread the face of Adeline -RRB- , desired me to call myself the wife of Glenmurray : but this , from my abhorrence of all falsehood , I peremptorily refused . '' 
`` A thousand thanks to you , '' replied Adeline : `` you have removed a weight off my mind ; but my conscience , I bless God , has none to bear . '' 
`` Can you blame me , '' interrupted Adeline , `` for acting according to what I think right ? '' 
As she said this she reached the door ; while Adeline , affected by her emotion , and distressed by her language , stood silent and almost abashed before her . 
But with her hand on the lock she turned round , and in a gentler voice said , `` Yet not even against a wilful offender like thee , should one gate that may lead to amendment be shut . 
So saying she left the room , but returned again , before Adeline had recovered herself from the various emotions which she had experienced during her address , to ask her christian name . 
But when Adeline replied , `` My name is Adeline Mowbray , '' Mrs. Pemberton started , and eagerly exclaimed , `` Art thou Adeline Mowbray of Gloucestershire -- the young heiress , as she was called , of Rosevalley ? '' 
`` I was once , '' replied Adeline , sinking back into a chair , `` Adeline Mowbray of Rosevalley . '' 
Mrs. Pemberton for a few minutes gazed on her in mournful silence : `` And art thou , '' she cried , `` Adeline Mowbray ? 
Adeline tried to speak , but her voice failed her . 
`` Art thou she , '' continued Mrs. Pemberton , `` whom I saw also leaning from the window of her mother 's mansion , and inquiring with the countenance of a pitying angel concerning the health of a wan labourer who limped past the door ? '' 
Adeline hid her face with her hands . 
such was Adeline Mowbray : and often , very often , has thy graceful image recurred to my remembrance : but , how art thou changed ! 
is this thy Adeline Mowbray ? '' 
Here , overcome with emotion , Mrs. Pemberton paused ; but Adeline could not break silence : she rose , she stretched out her hand as if going to speak , but her utterance failed her , and again she sunk on a chair . 
`` It was thine , '' resumed Mrs. Pemberton in a faint and broken voice , `` to diffuse happiness around thee , and to enjoy wealth unhated , because thy hand dispensed nobly the riches which it had received bounteously : when the ear heard thee , then it blessed thee ; when the eye saw thee , it gave witness to thee ; and yet -- '' Here again she paused , and raised her fine eyes to heaven for a few minutes , as if in prayer ; then , pressing Adeline 's hand with an almost convulsive grasp , she drew her bonnet over her face , as if eager to hide the emotion which she was unable to subdue , and suddenly left the house ; while Adeline , stunned and overwhelmed by the striking contrast which Mrs. Pemberton had drawn between her past and present situation , remained for some minutes motionless on her seat , a prey to a variety of feelings which she dared not venture to analyse . 
But amidst the variety of her feelings , Adeline soon found that sorrow , sorrow of the bitterest kind , was uppermost . 
On these ideas did Adeline chiefly dwell after the departure of her monitress ; and in an agony unspeakable she entered the room where Glenmurray was sitting , in order to look at him , and form her own judgement on a subject of such importance . 
she found him with the brilliant deceitful appearance that attends his complaint -- a bloom resembling health on his cheek , and a brightness in his eye rivalling that of the undimmed lustre of youth . 
Surprised , delighted , and overcome by these appearances , which her inexperience rendered her incapable of appreciating justly , Adeline threw herself on the sofa by him ; and , as she pressed her cold cheek to his glowing one , her tearful eye was raised to heaven with an expression of devout thankfulness . 
`` I believe she was , '' cheerfully replied Adeline , `` and now I have a confession to make ; the season of reserve shall be over , and I will tell you all the adventures of this day without evasion . '' 
Adeline then told him all that had passed between her and Mary and Mrs. Pemberton , and concluded with saying , `` But the surety of your better health , which your looks give me , has dissipated every uneasiness ; and if you are but spared to me , sorrow can not reach me , and I despise the censure of the ignorant and the prejudiced . 
Adeline promised that both his requests should be attended to . 
But a new mortification awaited Glenmurray and Adeline . 
`` That 's impossible , '' replied Adeline , `` for by this time they must be on the road , if you look at the date of the letter : besides , I wish you to receive them ; I should like to see any relations or friends of yours , especially those who have liberality of sentiment enough to esteem you as you deserve . '' 
exclaimed Glenmurray , pacing the room impatiently : `` O Adeline , that is impossible ! '' 
`` I understand you , '' replied Adeline , changing colour : `` they will not deem me worthy , '' forcing a smile , `` to be introduced to them . '' 
But Adeline was resolute ; and she carried her point . 
Soon after this conversation the ladies arrived , and Adeline shut herself up in her own apartment , where she gave way to no very pleasant reflections . 
Nor was she entirely satisfied with Glenmurray 's conduct : -- true , he had earnestly and sincerely wished to refuse to see his unexpected and unwelcome guests ; but he had never once expressed a desire of combating their prejudices for Adeline 's sake , and an intention of requesting that she might be introduced to them ; but , as any common man would have done under similar circumstances , he was contented to do homage to `` things as they are , '' without an effort to resist the prejudice to which he was superior . 
cried Adeline , `` when can we hope to see society enlightened and improved , when even those who see and strive to amend its faults in theory , in practice tamely submit to the trammels which it imposes ? '' 
An hour , a tedious hour to Adeline , having elapsed , Glenmurray 's visitors departed ; and by the disappointment that Adeline experienced at hearing the door close on them , she felt that she had had a secret hope of being summoned to be presented to them ; and , with a bitter feeling of mortification , she reflected , that she was probably to the man whom she adored a shame and a reproach . 
`` Yet I should like to see them , '' she said , running to the window as the carriage drove up , and the ladies entered it . 
At that moment they , whether from curiosity to see her , or accident , looked up at the window where she was . 
Adeline started back indignant and confused ; for , thrusting their heads eagerly forward , they looked at her with the bold unfeeling stare of imagined superiority ; and Adeline , spite of her reason , sunk abashed and conscious from their gaze . 
`` And this insult , '' exclaimed she , clasping her hands and bursting into tears , `` I experience from Glenmurray 's relations ! 
She had not recovered her disorder when Glenmurray entered the room , and , tenderly embracing her , exclaimed , `` Never , never again , my love , will I submit to such a sacrifice as I have now made ; '' when seeing her in tears , too well aware of the cause , he gave way to such a passionate burst of tenderness and regret , that Adeline , terrified at his agitation , though soothed by his fondness , affected the cheerfulness which she did not feel , and promised to drive the intruders from her remembrance . 
Had Glenmurray and Adeline known the real character of the unwelcome visitors , neither of them would have regretted that Adeline was not presented to them . 
But these ladies would have scorned to associate with Adeline ; and Adeline , had she known their private history , would certainly have returned the compliment . 
The peace of Adeline was soon after disturbed in another way . 
Glenmurray finding himself disposed to sleep in the middle of the day , his cough having kept him waking all night , Adeline took her usual walk , and returned by the church-yard . 
The bell was tolling ; and as she passed she saw a funeral enter the church-yard , and instantly averted her head . 
In so doing her eyes fell on a decent-looking woman , who with a sort of angry earnestness was watching the progress of the procession . 
she exclaimed indignantly , `` but I wonder where your soul is now ? 
Adeline was shocked , and gently observed , `` What crime did the person of whom you are speaking , that you should suppose his soul so painfully disposed of ? '' 
Adeline shuddered : -- if Glenmurray were to die , she and the child which she bore would , she knew , be beggars . 
`` Well , miss , or madam , belike , by the look of you , '' continued the woman glancing her eye over Adeline 's person , `` what say you ? 
Adeline turned very sick , and was forced to seat herself on a tomb-stone . 
she inwardly repeated , -- `` and will my child curse me ? 
and instantly starting from her seat she ran down the road to her lodgings , resolving to propose to Glenmurray their immediate marrriage . 
`` But is the possession of property , then , '' she said to herself as she stopped to take breath , `` so supreme a good , that the want of it , through the means of his mother , should dispose a child to curse that mother ? 
No -- Let his property go to the heir at law -- let me be forced to labour to support my babe , when its father -- '' Here a flood of tears put an end to her soliloquy , and slowly and pensively she returned home . 
The season of the year was uncommonly fine ; and the varied scenery visible from the terrace was , at the moment of Adeline 's approach to it , glowing with more than common beauty . 
Adeline stood for some minutes gazing on it in silent delight ; when her reverie was interrupted by the sound of boyish merriment , and she saw , at one end of the terrace , some well-dressed boys at play . 
immediately recurred to her : for , contemplating the probable evils of existence , she was darkly brooding over the imagined fate of her own offspring , should it live to see the light ; and the children at their sport , having no care of ills to come , naturally engaged her attention . 
But these happy children ceased to interest her , when she saw standing at a distance from the group , and apparently looking at it with an eye of envy , a little boy , even better dressed than the rest ; who was sobbing violently , yet evidently trying to conceal his grief . 
And while she was watching the young mourner attentively , he suddenly threw himself on a seat ; and , taking out his handkerchief , indignantly and impatiently wiped away the tears that would no longer be restrained . 
thought Adeline , seating herself beside him ; `` and has affliction reached thee so soon ! '' 
The child was beautiful : and his clustering locks seemed to have been combed with so much care ; the frill of his shirt was so fine , and had been so very neatly plaited ; and his sun-burnt neck and hands were so very very clean , that Adeline was certain he was the darling object of some fond mother 's attention . 
she inwardly exclaimed . 
But from recollections like these she always hastened ; and checking the rising sigh , she resolved to enter into conversation with the little boy . 
she cried . 
She had touched the right string : -- and bursting into tears , he sobbed out , `` Because they wo n't let me . '' 
gently asked Adeline . 
Here he turned from her , and with his nail began scratching the arm of the seat . 
`` Well ; this is very strange , and seems very unkind , '' cried Adeline : `` I will speak to them . '' 
So saying , she drew near the other children , who had interrupted their play to watch Adeline and their rejected playmate . 
`` What can be the reason , '' said she , `` that you will not let that little boy play with you ? '' 
They might have gone on for an hour -- Adeline could not interrupt them . 
The cause of the child 's affliction was a dagger in her heart ; and , while she listened to the now redoubled sobs of the disgraced and proudly afflicted boy , she was driven almost to phrensy : for `` Such , '' she exclaimed , `` may one time or other be the pangs of my child , and so to him may the hours of childhood be embittered ! '' 
-- Again she seated herself by the little mourner -- and her tears accompanied his . 
`` My dear child , you had better go home , '' said she , struggling with her feelings ; `` your mother will certainly be glad of your company . '' 
Again Adeline 's horrors returned . 
-- `` But , my dear , they love you , no doubt ; and you ought to love them , '' she replied with effort . 
At these words Adeline looked up , and saw an elegant-looking man approaching with a look of anxiety . 
Adeline felt the child 's action to the bottom of her heart . 
It was a volume of reproach to the father ; and she sighed to think what the parents , if they had hearts , must feel , when the afflicted boy told the cause of his grief . 
she exclaimed , clasping her hands together : `` never , never will I expose my child to the pangs which you have experienced to-day . '' 
So saying , she returned instantly to her lodgings ; and having just strength left to enter Glenmurray 's room , she faintly exclaimed : `` For pity 's sake , make me your wife to-morrow ! '' 
On her recovery she saw Glenmurray pale with agitation , yet with an expression of satisfaction in his countenance , bending over her . 
`` Adeline ! 
he whispered as her head lay on his bosom , `` blessed be the words you have spoken , whatever be their cause ! 
she eagerly replied . 
cried Adeline , and relapsed into a fainting fit . 
For it was not decreed that the object of her maternal solicitude should ever be born to reward it . 
Anxiety and agitation had had a fatal effect on the health of Adeline ; and the day after her rencounter on the terrace she brought forth a dead child . 
As soon as Adeline , languid and disappointed , was able to leave her room , Glenmurray , whom anxiety during her illness had rendered considerably weaker , urged her to let the marriage ceremony be performed immediately . 
But with her hopes of being a mother vanished her wishes to become a wife , and all her former reasons against marriage recurred in their full force . 
In vain did Glenmurray entreat her to keep her lately formed resolution : she still attributed his persuasions to generosity , and the heroic resolve of sacrificing his principles , with the consistency of his character , to her supposed good , and it was a point of honour with her to be as generous in return : consequently the subject was again dropped ; nor was it likely to be soon renewed ; an anxiety of a more pressing nature disturbed their peace and engrossed their attention . 
`` I could not have believed , '' cried Adeline , `` that the loss of any sum of money could have so violently affected you . '' 
faltered out Adeline ; and when she heard the true state of the case she found her agitation equalled that of Glenmurray , and in hopeless anguish she leaned on the table beside him . 
`` What is to be done , '' said she , `` till the next half-year 's rents become due ? 
replied he , looking at her mournfully : `` I shall not be distressed for money then . '' 
answered Adeline -LRB- not understanding him -RRB- : `` our expenses have never yet been more than that sum can supply . '' 
Glenmurray looked at her , and , seeing how unconscious she was of the certainty of the evil that awaited her , had not the courage to distress her by explaining his meaning ; and she went on to ask him what steps he meant to take to raise money . 
Glenmurray grew rapidly worse ; -- and their landlord was clamorous for his rent ; -- advice from London also became necessary to quiet Adeline 's mind , -- though Glenmurray knew that he was past cure : and after she had paid a small sum to quiet the demands of the landlord for a while , she had scarcely enough left to pay a physician : however , she sent for one recommended by Dr. Norberry , and by selling a writing-desk inlaid with silver , which she valued because it was the gift of her father , she raised money sufficient for the occasion . 
Dr. -- arrived , but not to speak peace to the mind of Adeline . 
She saw , though he did not absolutely say so , that all chance of Glenmurray 's recovery was over : and though with the sanguine feelings of nineteen she could `` hope though hope were lost , '' when she watched Dr. -- 's countenance as he turned from the bed-side of Glenmurray , she felt the coldness of despair thrill through her frame ; and , scarcely able to stand , she followed him into the next room , and awaited his orders with a sort of desperate tranquillity . 
cried Adeline in the broken voice of tearless and almost phrensied sorrow . 
Dr. -- , greatly affected , raised her from the ground , and conjured her for the sake of Glenmurray , and that she might not make his last hours miserable , to bear her trial with more fortitude . 
`` Well , '' replied Dr. -- , `` I may be mistaken ; Mr. Glenmurray is young , and -- and -- '' here his voice faltered , and he was unable to proceed ; for the expression of Adeline 's countenance , changing as it instantly did from misery to joy , -- joy of which he knew the fallacy , -- while her eyes were intently fixed on him , was too much for a man of any feeling to support ; and when she pressed his hand in the convulsive emotions of her gratitude , he was forced to turn away his head to conceal the starting tear . 
`` Well , I may be mistaken -- Mr. Glenmurray is young , '' Adeline repeated again and again , as his carriage drove off ; and she flew to Glenmurray 's bed-side to impart to him the satisfaction which he rejoiced to see her feel , but in which he could not share . 
Her recovered security did not , however , last long : the change in Glenmurray grew every day more visible ; and to increase her distress , they were forced , to avoid disagreeable altercations , to give the landlord a draft on Mr. Berrendale for the sum due to him , and remove to very humble lodgings in a closer part of the town . 
Here their misery was a little alleviated by the unexpected receipt of twenty pounds , sent to Glenmurray by a tenant who was in arrears to him , which enabled Adeline to procure Glenmurray every thing that his capricious appetite required ; and at his earnest entreaty , in order that she might sometimes venture to leave him , lest her health should suffer , she hired a nurse to assist her in her attendance upon him . 
The terror of wanting money , therefore , began to subside : but day after day elapsed , and Mr. Berrendale came not ; and Adeline , being obliged to deny herself almost necessary sustenance that Glenmurray 's appetite might be tempted , and his nurse , by the indulgence of hers , kept in good humour , resolved , presuming on the arrival of Mr. Berrendale , to write to Dr. Norberry and solicit the loan of twenty pounds . 
It was fortunate for Adeline 's feelings that she had not overheard what the mistress of the shop said to her maid as she left it . 
`` I have brought you some grapes , '' cried Adeline as she entered Glenmurray 's chamber , `` and I would have brought you a pine-apple , but that it was too dear . '' 
`` Well , '' replied Adeline , `` if you would enjoy it so much , you certainly ought to have it . '' 
`` Only two guineas , '' replied Adeline , forcing a smile . 
Adeline , disappointed , removed them from his sight ; and , to increase her vexation , Glenmurray was continually talking of pine-apples , and in a way that showed how strongly his diseased appetite wished to enjoy the gratification of eating one . 
At last , unable to bear to see him struggling with an ungratified wish , she told him that she believed they could afford to buy the pine-apple , as she had written to borrow some money of Dr. Norberry , to be paid as soon as Mr. Berrendale arrived . 
Adeline sighed as she contemplated this change effected by illness ; and , promising to be back as soon as possible , she proceeded to a shop to dispose of her lace veil , the only ornament which she had retained ; and that not from vanity , but because it concealed from the eye of curiosity the sorrow marked on her countenance . 
But she knew a piece of muslin would do as well ; and for two guineas she sold a veil worth treble the sum ; but it was to give a minute 's pleasure to Glenmurray , and that was enough for Adeline . 
In her way to the fruiterer 's she saw a crowd at the door of a mean-looking house , and in the midst of it she beheld a mulatto woman , the picture of sickness and despair , supporting a young man who seemed ready to faint every moment , but whom a rough-featured man , regardless of his weakness , was trying to force from the grasp of the unhappy woman ; while a mulatto boy , known in Richmond by the name of the Tawny Boy , to whom Adeline had often given halfpence in her walks , was crying bitterly , and hiding his face in the poor woman 's apron . 
Adeline immediately pressed forward to inquire into the cause of a distress only too congenial to her feelings ; and as she did so , the tawny boy looked up , and , knowing her immediately , ran eagerly forward to meet her , seeming , though he did not speak , to associate with her presence an idea of certain relief . 
it is only a poor man , '' replied an old woman in answer to Adeline 's inquiries , `` who ca n't pay his debts , -- and so they are dragging him to prison -- that 's all . '' 
said Adeline . 
`` Yes , and my mammy , '' said the tawny boy , looking up in her face , `` and she so ill and sorry . '' 
`` Yes , unhappy creatures , '' replied her informant , `` and they have known great trouble ; and now , just as they had got a little money together , William fell ill , and in doctor 's stuff Savanna -LRB- that 's the mulatto 's name -RRB- has spent all the money she had earned , as well as her husband 's ; and now she is ill herself , and I am sure William 's going to jail will kill her . 
The tawny boy all this time was standing , crying , by Adeline 's side , and had twisted his fingers in her gown , while her heart sympathized most painfully in the anguish of the mulatto woman . 
said Adeline . 
Adeline , shocked at the knowledge of a distress which she was not able to remove , was turning away as the woman said this , when she felt that the little boy pulled her gown gently , as if appealing to her generosity ; while a surly-looking man , who was the creditor himself , forcing a passage through the crowd , said , `` Why , bring him along , and have done with it ; here is a fuss to make indeed about that idle dog , and that ugly black b -- h ! '' 
Adeline till then had not recollected that she was a mulatto ; and this speech , reflecting so brutally on her colour , -- a circumstance which made her an object of greater interest to Adeline , -- urged her to step forward to their joint relief with an almost irresistible impulse ; especially when another man reproached the fellow for his brutality , and added , that he knew them both to be hard-working , deserving persons . 
But to disappoint Glenmurray of his promised pleasure was impossible ; and having put sixpence in the tawny boy 's hand , she was hastening to the fruiterer 's , when the crowd , who were following William and the mulatto to the jail , whither the bailiffs were dragging rather than leading him , fell back to give air to the poor man , who had fainted on Savanna 's shoulder , and seemed on the point of expiring -- while she , with an expression of fixed despair , was gazing on his wan cheek . 
Adeline thought on Glenmurray 's danger , and shuddered as she beheld the scene ; she felt it but a too probable anticipation of the one in which she might soon be an actor . 
Adeline felt it to her very soul ; and , rushing forward , `` Sir , sir , '' she exclaimed to the unfeeling creditor , `` if I were to give you a guinea now , and promise you two more a fortnight hence , would you release this poor man for the present ? '' 
Adeline sighed , and withdrew her hand from her pocket . 
`` But were Glenmurray here , he would give up his own indulgence , I am sure , to save the lives of , probably , two fellow-creatures , '' thought Adeline ; `` and he would not forgive me if I were to sacrifice such an opportunity to the sole gratification of his palate . '' 
-- But then again , Glenmurray eagerly expecting her with the promised treat , so gratifying to the feverish taste of sickness , seemed to appear before her , and she turned away : but the eyes of the mulatto , who had heard her words , and had hung on them breathless with expectation , followed her with a look of such sad reproach for the disappointment which she had occasioned her , and the little boy looked up so wistfully in her face , crying , `` Poor fader , and poor mammy ! '' 
that Adeline could not withstand the force of the appeal ; but almost exclaiming `` Glenmurray would upbraid me if I did not act thus , '' she gave the creditor the three guineas , paid the bailiffs their demand , and then made her way through the crowd , who respectfully drew back to give her room to pass , saying , `` God bless you , lady ! 
I never can : '' and Adeline , kindly pressing her hand , hurried away from her in silence , though scarcely able to refrain exclaiming , `` You know not the sacrifice which you have cost me ! '' 
The tawny boy still followed her , as loth to leave her . 
said she kindly to him : `` there , go to your mother , and be good to her . '' 
His dark face glowed as she spoke to him , and holding up his chin , `` Tiss me ! '' 
She did so ; and then , reluctantly , he left her , nodding his head , and saying , `` Dood bye '' till he was out of sight . 
With him , and with the display of his grateful joy , vanished all that could give Adeline resolution to bear her own reflections at the idea of returning home , and of the trial that awaited her . 
In vain did she now try to believe that Glenmurray would applaud what she had done . 
thought Adeline , lingering on the stairs . 
`` Adeline , my love ! 
Adeline entered the room and threw herself on the first chair , avoiding the sight of Glenmurray , whose countenance , as she hastily glanced her eyes over it , was animated with the expectation of a pleasure which he was not to enjoy . 
`` I have not brought the pine-apple , '' she faintly articulated . 
`` No , '' replied Adeline , struggling with her tears at this first instance of pettishness in Glenmurray . 
thought Adeline , `` and never was I so tempted to tell a falsehood . '' 
These words , by the agony which they excited , restored to Adeline all her resolution . 
She ran to Glenmurray ; she clasped his burning hands in hers ; and as succinctly as possible she related what had passed . 
When she had finished , Glenmurray was silent ; the fretfulness of disease prompted him to say , `` So then , to the relief of strangers you sacrificed the gratification of the man whom you love , and deprived him of the only pleasure he may live to enjoy ! '' 
But the habitual sweetness and generosity of his temper struggled , and struggled effectually , with his malady ; and while Adeline , pale and trembling , awaited her sentence , he caught her suddenly to his bosom , and held her there a few moments in silence . 
faltered out Adeline . 
I know your heart , Adeline ; and I am convinced that depriving yourself of the delight of giving me the promised treat , in order to do a benevolent action , was an effort of virtue of the highest order ; and never , I trust , have you known , or will you know again , such bitter feelings as you this moment experienced . '' 
Adeline , gratified by his generous kindness , and charmed with his praise , could only weep her thanks . 
cried Adeline , bursting into an agony of grief as she reached her own apartment , and throwing herself on her knees by the bed-side , `` Must that benevolent being be taken from me for ever , and must I , must I survive him ! '' 
She continued for some minutes in this attitude , and with her heart devoutly raised to heaven ; till every feeling yielded to resignation , and she arose calm , if not contented ; when , on turning round , she saw Glenmurray leaning against the door , and gazing on her . 
`` I do , '' she replied : `` Sceptic , wouldst thou wish to deprive me of it ? '' 
This curious epistle would have excited in Glenmurray and Adeline no other feelings save those of contempt , but for the information it contained of the doctor 's being dangerously ill ; and , in fear for the worthy husband , they forgot the impertinence of the wife and daughters . 
Adeline , mean while , was agreeably surprised to see the good effect produced on Glenmurray 's spirits , and even his health , by the arrival of his cousin ; and her manner became even affectionate to Berrendale , from gratitude for the change which his presence seemed to have occasioned . 
Adeline had now a companion in her occasional walks ; -- Glenmurray insisted on her walking , and insisted on Berrendale 's accompanying her . 
In these tête-à-têtes Adeline unburthened her heart , by telling Berrendale of the agony she felt at the idea of losing Glenmurray ; and while drowned in tears she leaned on his arm , she unconsciously suffered him to press the hand that leaned against him ; nor would she have felt it a freedom to be reproved , had she been conscious that he did so . 
But these trifling indulgences were fewel to the flame that she had kindled in the heart of Berrendale ; a flame which he saw no guilt in indulging , as he looked on Glenmurray 's death as certain , and Adeline would then be free . 
But though Adeline was perfectly unconscious of his attachment , Glenmurray had seen it even before Berrendale himself discovered it ; and he only waited a favourable opportunity to make the discovery known to the parties . 
All he had as yet ventured to say was , `` Charles , my Adeline is an excellent nurse ! 
-- You would like such an one during your fits of the gout ; '' and Berrendale had blushed deeply while he assented to Glenmurray 's remarks , because he was conscious that , while enumerating Adeline 's perfections , he had figured her to himself warming his flannels , and leaning tenderly over his gouty couch . 
One day , while Adeline was reading to Glenmurray , and Berrendale was attending not to what she read , but to the beauty of her mouth while reading , the nurse came in , and said that `` a mulatto woman wished to speak to miss Mowbray . '' 
In vain did Adeline expostulate -- Glenmurray wished to enjoy the mulatto 's expressions of gratitude ; and , in spite of all she could say , the mother and child were introduced . 
cried the mulatto , -LRB- whose looks were so improved that Adeline scarcely knew her again , -RRB- `` So ! 
As she said this , she pressed the hem of Adeline 's gown to her lips with fervent emotion . 
`` Well , Adeline , '' said Glenmurray when she had ended , `` you did not throw away your kindness on an unworthy and ungrateful object ; so I am quite reconciled to the loss of the pine-apple ; and I will tell your honest friend here the story , -- to show her , as she has a tender heart herself , the greatness of the sacrifice you made for her sake . '' 
Adeline begged him to desist ; but he went on ; and the mulatto could not keep herself quiet on her chair while he related the circumstance . 
`` And did she do dat to save me ? '' 
she passionately exclaimed : `` Angel woman ! 
`` And did you forgive her immediately ? '' 
`` And no one but Glenmurray would have been so heroic , I believe , '' said Adeline . 
She then clasped the little boy 's hands , bade him raise his eyes to heaven , and made him repeat what she had said , ending it with `` I swear dis , to my great God . '' 
There was such an affecting solemnity in this action , and in the mulatto such a determined enthusiasm of manner incapable of being controlled , that Adeline , Glenmurray , and Berrendale observed what passed in respectful silence ; and when it was over , Glenmurray said , in a voice of emotion , `` I think , Adeline , we must accept this good creature 's offer ; and as nurse grows lazy and saucy , we had better part with her : and as for your young knight there , '' -LRB- the tawny boy had by this time nestled himself close to Adeline , who , with no small emotion , was playing with his woolly curls , -RRB- `` we must send him to school ; for , my good woman , we are not so poor as you imagine . '' 
`` I was christened Savanna , '' replied she . 
`` Then , good Savanna , '' cried Adeline , `` I hope we shall both have reason to bless the day when first we met ; and to-morrow you shall come home to us . '' 
Savanna , on hearing this , almost screamed with joy , and as she took her leave Berrendale slipped a guinea into her hand : the tawny boy meanwhile slowly followed his mother , as if unwilling to leave Adeline , even though she gave him halfpence to spend in cakes : but on being told that she would let him come again the next day , he tripped gaily down after Savanna . 
Adeline took up her work ; and Berrendale , pretending to read , continued to feed his passion by gazing on the unconscious Adeline . 
While they were thus engaged , Glenmurray , unobserved , awoke ; and he soon guessed how Berrendale 's eyes were employed , as the book which he held in his hand was upside down ; and through the fingers of the hand which he held before his face , he saw his looks fixed on Adeline . 
The moment was a favourable one for Glenmurray 's purpose : and just as he raised himself from his pillow , Adeline had discovered the earnest gaze of Berrendale ; and a suspicion of the truth that instant darting across her mind , disconcerted and blushing , she had cast her eyes on the ground . 
Adeline looked at Glenmurray , and , seeing a very arch and meaning expression on his countenance , suspected that he had made the same discovery as herself : yet , if so , she wondered at his looking so pleasantly on Berrendale as he spoke . 
This speech deceived Adeline , and made her suppose that Glenmurray really alluded to the book which lay before Berrendale : but it convinced him that Glenmurray spoke metaphorically ; and as his manner was kind , it also made him think that he saw and did not disapprove his attachment . 
For a few minutes , each of them being engrossed in different contemplations , there was a complete silence ; but Glenmurray interrupted it by saying , `` My dear Adeline , it is your hour for walking ; but , as I am not disposed to sleep again , will you forgive me if I keep your walking companion to myself to-day ? 
most cheerfully , '' she replied with quickness : `` you know I love a solitary ramble of all things . '' 
`` I did not wish to flatter him , '' said Adeline gravely ; and Berrendale , fluttered at the idea of the coming conversation with Glenmurray , and mortified by Adeline 's words and manner , turned to the window to conceal his emotion . 
Adeline , then , with more than usual tenderness , conjured Glenmurray not to talk too much , nor do any thing to destroy the hopes on which her only chance of happiness depended , viz . 
the now possible chance of his recovery , and then set out for her walk ; while , with a restraint and coldness which she could not conquer , she bade Berrendale farewell for the present . 
The walk was long , and her thoughts perturbed : -- `` What could Glenmurray want to say to Mr. Berrendale ? '' 
were thoughts perpetually recurring to her : and half impatient , and half reluctant , she at length returned to her lodgings . 
When she entered the apartment , she saw signs of great emotion in the countenance of both the gentlemen ; and in Berrendale 's eyes the traces of recent tears . 
The tone of Glenmurray 's voice too , when he addressed her , was even more tender than usual , and Berrendale 's attentions more marked , yet more respectful ; and Adeline observed that Glenmurray was unusually thoughtful and absent , and that the cough and other symptoms of his complaint were more troublesome than ever . 
`` I see you have exerted yourself and talked too much during my absence , '' cried Adeline , `` and I will never leave you again for so long a time . '' 
Adeline , whose hopes had been considerably revived during the last few days , looked mournfully and reproachfully in his face as he uttered these words . 
exclaimed Adeline wildly . 
So saying , her head fell on Glenmurray 's pillow ; and , for some time , her sorrow almost suspended the consciousness of suffering . 
From this state she was aroused by Glenmurray 's being attacked with a violent paroxysm of his complaint , and all selfish distress was lost in the consciousness of his sufferings : again he struggled through , and seemed so relieved by the effort , that again Adeline 's hopes revived ; and she could scarcely return , with temper , Berrendale 's `` good night , '' when Glenmurray expressed a wish to rest , because his spirits had not risen in any proportion to hers . 
The nurse had been dismissed that afternoon ; and Adeline , as Savanna was not to come home till the next morning , was to sit up alone with Glenmurray that night ; and , contrary to his usual custom , he did not insist that she should have a companion . 
He then became restless , and so wakeful and disturbed , that he professed to Adeline an utter inability to sleep , and therefore he wished to pass the rest of the night in serious conversation with her . 
Adeline , alarmed at this intention , conjured him not to irritate his complaint by so dangerous an exertion . 
`` My mind will irritate it more , '' replied he , `` if I refrain from it ; for it is burthened , my Adeline , and it longs to throw off its burthen . 
Adeline , oppressed and awed beyond measure at the unusual solemnity of his manner , made no answer ; but , leaning her cheek on his hand , awaited his communication in silence . 
Adeline , raising her head , replied hastily , -- `` Not to satisfy any curiosity of mine ; for I feel none , I assure you . '' 
`` Reluctantly , I hope , '' said Adeline , `` and merely out of pity for the feelings of the childless father . '' 
`` My dear Glenmurray , '' cried Adeline impatiently , `` what is this to me ? 
Glenmurray bade her have patience , and continued thus : `` And now , Adeline , -LRB- here his voice evidently faltered , -RRB- I must open my whole heart to you , and confess that the idea of leaving you friendless , unprotected , and poor , your reputation injured , and your peace of mind destroyed , is more than I am able to bear , and will give me , in my last moments , the torments of the damned . '' 
Here a violent burst of tears interrupted him ; and Adeline , overcome with emotion and surprise at the sight of the agitation which his own sufferings could never occasion in him , hung over him in speechless woe . 
`` Besides , '' continued Glenmurray , recovering himself a little , `` I -- O Adeline ! '' 
seizing her cold hand , `` can you forgive me for having been the means of blasting all your fair fame and prospects in life ? '' 
`` For the sake of justice , if not of mercy , '' exclaimed Adeline , `` forbear thus cruelly to accuse yourself . 
He was going on : but Adeline , who had till now struggled successfully with her feelings , wound up almost to phrensy at the possibility that anxiety had shortened Glenmurray 's life , gave way to a violent paroxysm of sorrow , which , for a while , deprived her of consciousness ; and when she recovered she found Berrendale bending over her , while her head lay on Glenmurray 's pillow . 
The sight of Berrendale in a moment roused her to exertion ; -- his look was so full of anxious tenderness , and she was at that moment so ill disposed to regard it with complacency , that she eagerly declared she was quite recovered , and begged Mr. Berrendale would return to bed ; and Glenmurray seconding her request , with a deep sigh he departed . 
`` I am glad I did not , '' replied Adeline : `` but how can you persist in talking to me of any other person 's anxiety , when I am tortured with yours ? 
You , for instance , you , my Adeline , what misery -- ! '' 
`` Live -- do but live , '' exclaimed Adeline passionately , `` and I can know of misery but the name . '' 
replied Adeline , fondly throwing herself on his neck , `` could you but live free from any violent pain , and were neither you nor I ever to leave this room again , believe me , I should not have a wish beyond it . 
After this burst of true and heartfelt tenderness , there was a pause of some moments : Glenmurray felt too much to speak , and Adeline was sobbing on his pillow . 
At length she pathetically again exclaimed , `` Live ! 
`` I care not , '' cried Adeline : `` if I lose you , may the same grave receive us ! '' 
O Adeline ! 
`` Name it , `` replied Adeline with quickness . 
`` But you must , you will , you shall live , '' interrupted Adeline , `` and I shall be your happy wife . '' 
Adeline started , and , fixing her eyes wildly on his , demanded what he meant . 
exclaimed Adeline , `` and can you insult my tenderness for you with such a proposal ? 
interrupted Adeline reproachfully . 
`` I have listened to you , '' cried Adeline in a tone of suppressed anguish , `` and , I trust , with tolerable patience : there is one thing yet for me to learn -- the name of the object whom you wish me to marry , for I suppose he is found . '' 
`` I thought so , '' exclaimed Adeline , rising and traversing the room hastily , and wringing her hands . 
`` Only the more odious , '' impatiently interrupted Adeline . 
she exclaimed , throwing herself on Glenmurray 's pillow , and pressing his burning temples to her cold cheek . 
`` Adeline , '' said Glenmurray solemnly , `` this is , perhaps , the last moment of confidential and uninterrupted intercourse that we shall ever have together ; '' Adeline started , but spoke not ; `` allow me , therefore , to tell you it is my dying request , that you would endeavour to dispose your mind in favour of Berrendale , and to become in time his wife . 
cried Adeline , `` to consider as my disgrace , what I deem my glory ! '' 
cried Adeline indignantly ; `` and yet you advise me to marry him ? '' 
Berrendale is not perfect ; but I am convinced that you would commit a fatal error in not making him your husband ; and when I tell you it is my dying request that you should do so -- '' `` If you wish me to retain my senses , '' exclaimed Adeline , `` repeat that dreadful phrase no more . '' 
`` I will not say any more at all now , '' faintly observed Glenmurray , `` for I am exhausted : -- still , as morning begins to dawn , I should like to sit up in my bed , and gaze on it , perhaps for -- '' Here Adeline put her hand to his mouth : Glenmurray kissed it , sighed , and did not finish the sentence . 
She then opened the shutters to let in the rising splendour of day , and , turning round towards Glenmurray , almost shrieked with terror at seeing the visible alteration a night had made in his appearance ; while the yellow rays of the dawn played on his sallow cheek , and his dark curls , once crisped and glossy , hung faint and moist on his beating temples . 
`` It is strange , Adeline , '' said Glenmurray -LRB- but with great effort -RRB- , `` that , even in my situation , the sight of morning , and the revival as it were of nature , seems to invigorate my whole frame . 
Adeline , conscious for the first time that all hope was over , opened the window , and felt even her sick soul and languid frame revived by the chill but refreshing breeze . 
-- and , strange as it may seem , Adeline 's hopes began to revive also . 
Glenmurray could not reply to this natural observation : he knew that , in a similar situation , his feelings would have been like Adeline 's ; and , pressing her hand with all the little strength left him , he said `` Poor Berrendale ! '' 
and tried to compose himself to sleep ; while Adeline , lost in sad contemplation , threw herself in a chair by his bed-side , and anxiously awaited the event of his reawaking . 
But it was not long before Adeline herself , exhausted both in body and mind , fell into a deep sleep ; and it was mid-day before she awoke : for no careless , heavy-treading , and hired nurse now watched the slumbers of the unhappy lovers ; but the mulatto , stepping light as air , and afraid even of breathing lest she should disturb their repose , had assumed her station at the bed-side , and taken every precaution lest any noise should awake them . 
At twelve o'clock Adeline awoke ; and her first glance met the dark eyes of Savanna kindly fixed upon her . 
Adeline started , not immediately recollecting who it could be ; but in a moment the idea of the mulatto , and of the service which she had rendered her , recurred to her mind , and diffused a sensation of pleasure through her frame . 
`` There is a being whom I have served , '' said Adeline to herself , and , extending her hand to Savanna , she started from her seat , invigorated by the thought : but she felt depressed again by the consciousness that she , who had been able to impart so much joy and help to another , was herself a wretch for ever ; and in a moment her eyes filled with tears , while the mulatto gazed on her with a look of inquiring solicitude . 
cried Adeline in a low and plaintive tone . 
There are moments when the sound of one 's own voice has a mournful effect on one 's feelings -- this was one of those moments to Adeline ; the pathos of her own tone overcame her , and she burst into tears : but Glenmurray slept on ; and Adeline hoped nothing would suddenly disturb his rest , when Berrendale opened the door with what appeared unnecessary noise , and Glenmurray hastily awoke . 
Adeline immediately started from her seat , and , looking at him with great indignation , demanded why he came in in such a manner , when he knew Mr. Glenmurray was asleep . 
Berrendale , shocked and alarmed at Adeline 's words and expression , so unlike her usual manner , stammered out an excuse . 
`` Another time , sir , '' replied Adeline coldly , `` I hope you will be more careful . '' 
`` Are you scolding , Adeline ? 
Here Adeline and Berrendale both hastened to him , and Adeline almost looked with complacency on Berrendale ; when Glenmurray , declaring himself wonderfully refreshed by his long sleep , expressed a great desire for his breakfast , and said he had a most voracious appetite . 
But to all Berrendale 's attentions she returned the most forbidding reserve ; nor could she for a moment lose the painful idea , that the death of Glenmurray would be to him a source of joy , not of anguish . 
Berrendale was not slow to observe this change in her conduct ; and he conceived that , as he knew Glenmurray had mentioned his pretensions to her , his absence would be of more service to his wishes than his presence ; and he resolved to leave Richmond that afternoon , -- especially as he had a dinner engagement at a tavern in London , which , in spite of love and friendship , he was desirous of keeping . 
He was not mistaken in his ideas : the countenance of Adeline assumed less severity when he mentioned his intention of going away , nor could she express regret at his resolution , even though Glenmurray with anxious earnestness requested him to stay . 
Here Berrendale 's heart failed him , and he almost resolved to stay : but a look of angry repugnance which he saw on Adeline 's countenance , even amidst her sorrow , got the better of his kind emotions , by wounding his self-love ; and grasping Glenmurray 's hand , and saying `` I shall be back in a day or two , '' he rushed out of the room . 
`` I am sorry Mr. Berrendale is forced to go , '' said Adeline involuntarily when the street-door closed after him . 
Adeline instantly felt , and regretted , the selfishness of her conduct . 
To avoid the sight of a disagreeable object , she had given pain to Glenmurray ; or , rather , she had not done her utmost to prevent his being exposed to it . 
`` Forgive me , '' said Adeline , bursting into tears : `` I own I thought only of myself , when I forbore to urge his stay . 
`` You certainly are better to-day , '' exclaimed Adeline with unwonted cheerfulness . 
`` My feelings are more tolerable , at least , '' replied Glenmurray : and Adeline and the mulatto began to prepare the dinner immediately . 
How often during her attendance on Glenmurray had she recollected the words of her grandmother , and blessed her for having taught her to be useful ! 
As soon as dinner was over , Glenmurray complained of being drowsy : still he declared he would not go to bed till he had seen the sun set , as he had that day , for the second time since his illness , seen it rise ; and therefore , when it was setting , Adeline and Savanna led him into a room adjoining , which had a western aspect . 
and Adeline complied with his request . 
cried Adeline . 
`` Perhaps , had I remained longer here , '' replied Glenmurray , `` we might have done so ; for , believe me , Adeline , though my feelings have continually hurried me into adoration of the Supreme Being , I have often wished my homage to be as regular and as founded on immutable conviction as it once was : but it is too late now for amendment , though , alas ! 
`` Let us change this discourse , '' cried Adeline , seeing on Glenmurray 's countenance an expression of uncommon sadness , which he , from a regard to her feelings , struggled to cover . 
He did indeed feel sadness -- a sadness of the most painful nature ; and while Adeline hung over him with all the anxious and soothing attention of unbounded love , he seemed to shrink from her embrace with horror , and , turning away his head , feebly murmured , `` O Adeline ! 
`` It is too late now for you to sit at an open window , indeed it is , '' cried Adeline , after having replied to Glenmurray 's self-reproaches by the touching language of tears , and incoherent expressions of confiding and unchanged attachment ; `` and as you are evidently better to-day , do not , by breathing too much cold air , run the risk of making yourself worse again . '' 
In a moment the fine eyes of Adeline were raised to heaven with an expression of devout thankfulness ; and , eager to make the most of a change so favourable , she hurried Glenmurray back to his chamber , and , with a feeling of renewed hope , sat by to watch his slumbers . 
She had not sat long before the door opened , and the little tawny boy entered . 
He had watched all day to see the good lady , as he called Adeline ; but , as she had not left Glenmurray 's chamber except to prepare dinner , he had been disappointed : so he was resolved to seek her in her own apartment . 
He had bought some cakes with the penny which Adeline had given him , and he was eager to give her a piece of them . 
cried Adeline , as she held out her hand to him ; and he in a whisper crying `` Bite , '' held his purchase to her lips . 
Adeline tasted it , said it was very good , and , giving him a halfpenny , the tawny boy disappeared again : the noise he made as he bounded down the stairs woke Glenmurray . 
Adeline was sitting on the side of the bed ; and as he turned round to sleep again he grasped her hand in his , and its feverish touch damped her hopes , and re-awakened her fears . 
For a short time she mournfully gazed on his flushed cheek , and then , gently sliding off the bed , and dropping on one knee , she addressed the Deity in the language of humble supplication . 
Insensibly she ceased to pray in thought only , and the lowly-murmured prayer became audible . 
Again Glenmurray awoke , and Adeline reproached herself as the cause . 
Adeline obeyed : and as she continued , she felt ever and anon , by the pressure of Glenmurray 's hand , how much he was affected by what she uttered . 
she exclaimed in one part of her prayer . 
Here she felt the hand of Glenmurray grasp hers most vehemently ; and , delighted to think that he had pleasure in hearing her , she went on to breathe forth all the wishes of a trembling yet confiding spirit , till overcome with her own emotions she ceased and arose , and leaning over Glenmurray 's pillow was going to take his hand : -- but the hand which she pressed returned not her pressure ; the eyes were fixed whose approving glance she sought ; and the horrid truth rushed at once on her mind , that the last convulsive grasp had been an eternal farewell , and that he had in that grasp expired . 
It came on Adeline like a thunder-stroke : she screamed not ; she moved not ; but , fixing a dim and glassy eye on the pale countenance of her lover , she seemed as insensible as poor Glenmurray himself ; and hours might have elapsed -- hours immediately fatal both to her senses and existence -- ere any one had entered the room , since she had given orders to be disturbed by no one , had not the tawny boy , encouraged by his past success , stolen in again , unperceived , to give her a piece of the apple which he had bought with her last bounty . 
The delighted boy tripped gaily to the bed-side , holding up his treasure ; but he started back , and screamed in all the agony of terror , at the sight which he beheld -- the face of Glenmurray ghastly , and the mouth distorted as if in the last agony , and Adeline in the stupor of despair . 
The affectionate boy 's repeated screams soon summoned the whole family into the room , while he , vainly hanging on Adeline 's arm , begged her to speak to him . 
But nothing could at first rouse Adeline , not even Savanna 's loud and extravagant grief . 
When , however , they tried to force her from the body , she recovered her recollection and her strength ; and it was with great difficulty she could be carried out of the room , and kept out when they had accomplished their purpose . 
As Adeline and Glenmurray had both of them excited some interest in Richmond , the news of the death of the latter was immediately abroad ; and it was told to Mrs. Pemberton , with a pathetic account of Adeline 's distress , just as the carriage was preparing to convey her and her sick friend on their way to Lisbon . 
She forgot Adeline 's crime in her distress ; and knowing she had no female friend with her , she hastened on the errand of pity to the abode of vice . 
Mrs. Pemberton had learnt but too well to sympathize in grief like that of Adeline . 
She had seen a beloved husband expire in her arms , and had afterwards followed two children to the grave . 
But she had taken refuge from sorrow in the active duties of her religion , and in becoming a teacher of those truths to others , by which she had so much benefited herself . 
Mrs. Pemberton entered the room just as Adeline , on her knees , was conjuring the persons with her to allow her to see Glenmurray once more . 
Adeline did not at all observe the entrance of Mrs. Pemberton , who , in spite of the self-command which her principles and habits gave her , was visibly affected when she beheld the mourner 's tearless affliction : and the hands which , on her entrance , were quietly crossed on each other , confining the modest folds of her simple cloke , were suddenly and involuntarily separated by the irresistible impulse of pity ; while , catching hold of the wall for support , she leaned against it , covering her face with her hands . 
cried Adeline , gazing on Mrs. Pemberton , but unconscious who she was . 
Adeline gave a scream of mournful joy at this permission , and suffered herself to be led into Glenmurray 's apartment . 
As soon as she entered it she sprang to the bed , and , throwing herself beside the corpse , began to contemplate it with an earnestness and firmness which surprised every one . 
Here she was interrupted by the voice of Adeline ; who , in a deep and hollow tone , was addressing the unconscious corpse . 
said Mrs. Pemberron , kneeling beside her , `` and is it even thus with thee ? 
`` It is very strange , '' continued Adeline : `` he loved me so tenderly , and he used to speak and look so tenderly , and now , see how he neglects me ! 
As she said this , she laid her lips to his : but , feeling on them the icy coldness of death , she started back , screaming in all the violence of phrensy ; and , recovered to the full consciousness of her misfortune , she was carried back to her room in violent convulsions . 
said Mrs. Pemberton , as she gazed on Adeline 's distorted countenance ; `` for thou , young as thou art , wert well known in the chambers of sorrow and of sickness ; and I should rejoice to pay back to thee part of the debt of those whom thy presence so often soothed : but I must leave thee to the care of others . '' 
replied Mrs. Pemberton , pressing the mulatto 's hand as she returned to her station beside Adeline , who was fallen into a calm slumber , `` to thy care , with confidence , I commit her . 
But perhaps there may be an immediate necessity for money , and I had better leave this with thee , '' she added , taking out her purse : but Savanna assured her that Mr. Berrendale was sent for , and to him all those concerns were to be left . 
Mrs. Pemberton stood for a few moments looking at Adeline in silence , then slowly left the house . 
When Adeline awoke , she seemed so calm and resigned , that her earnest request of being allowed to pass the night alone was granted , especially as Mrs. Pemberton had desired that her wish , even to see Glenmurray again , should be complied with : but the faithful mulatto watched till morning at the door . 
No bed that night received the weary limbs of Adeline . 
She threw herself on the ground , and in alternate prayer and phrensy passed the first night of her woe : towards morning , however , she fell into a perturbed sleep . 
But when the light of day darting into the room awakened her to consciousness ; and when she recollected that he to whom it usually summoned her existed no longer ; that the eyes which but the preceding morning had opened with enthusiastic ardour to hail its beams , were now for ever closed ; and that the voice which used to welcome her so tenderly , she should never , never hear again ; the forlornness of her situation , the hopelessness of her sorrow burst upon her with a violence too powerful for her reason : and when Berrendale arrived , he found Glenmurray in his shrowd , and Adeline in a state of insanity . 
For six months her phrensy resisted all the efforts of medicine , and the united care which Berrendale 's love and Savanna 's grateful attachment could bestow ; while with Adeline 's want of their care seemed to increase their desire of bestowing it , and their affection gathered new strength from the duration of her helpless malady . 
At length , however , Adeline 's reason slowly yet surely returned ; and she , by degrees , learnt to contemplate with firmness , and even calmness , the loss which she had sustained . 
She even looked on Berrendale and his attentions not with anger , but gratitude and complacency ; she had even pleasure in observing the likeness he bore Glenmurray ; she felt that it endeared him to her . 
In the first paroxysms of her phrensy , the sight of him threw her into fits of raving ; but as she grew better she had pleasure in seeing him : and when , on her recovery , she heard how much she was indebted to his persevering tenderness , she felt for him a decided regard , which Berrendale tried to flatter himself might be ripened into love . 
But he was mistaken ; the heart of Adeline was formed to feel violent and lasting attachments only . 
She had always loved her mother with a tenderness of a most uncommon nature ; she had felt for Glenmurray the fondest enthusiasm of passion : she was now separated from them both . 
But her mother still lived ; and though almost hopeless of ever being restored to her society , all her love for her returned ; and she pined for that consoling fondness , those soothing attentions , which , in a time of such affliction , a mother on a widowed daughter can alone bestow . 
What then could Adeline suppose ? 
Perhaps her mother was ill ; perhaps she was dead : and her reason was again on the point of yielding to this horrible supposition , when she received her two letters in a cover , directed in her mother 's hand writing . 
At first she was overwhelmed by this dreadful proof of the continuance of Mrs. Mowbray 's deep resentment ; but , ever sanguine , the circumstance of Mrs. Mowbray 's having written the address herself appeared to Adeline a favourable symptom ; and with renewed hope she wrote to Dr. Norberry to become her mediator once more : but to this letter no answer was returned ; and Adeline concluded her only friend had died of the fever which Mrs. Norberry had mentioned in her letter . 
cried Adeline , wringing her hands in agony , as this idea recurred to her . 
repeated Berrendale , who happened to be present , `` O Adeline ! '' 
Her heart smote her as he said this . 
`` My oldest friend I should have said , '' she replied , holding out her hand to him ; and Berrendale thought himself supremely happy . 
But Adeline was far from meaning to give the encouragement which this action seemed to bestow : wholly occupied by her affliction , her mind had lost its energy , and she would not have made an effort to dissipate her grief by employment and exertion , had not that virtuous pride and delicacy , which in happier hours had been the ornament of her character , rebelled against the consciousness of owing pecuniary obligations to the lover whose suit she was determined to reject , and urged her to make some vigorous attempt to maintain herself . 
Many were the schemes which occurred to her ; but none seemed so practicable as that of keeping a day-school in some village near the metropolis . 
-- True , Glenmurray had said , that her having been his mistress would prevent her obtaining scholars ; but his fears , perhaps , were stronger than his justice in this case . 
These fears , however , she found existed in Berrendale 's mind also , though he ventured only to hint them with great caution . 
said Adeline to Berrendale . 
`` Under such circumstances , '' said Adeline , `` you yourself would not send a child to my school ? '' 
`` I am answered , '' said Adeline with a look and tone of displeasure ; and retired to her chamber , intending not to return till Berrendale was gone to his own lodging . 
But her heart soon reproached her with unjust resentment ; and , coming back , she apologized to Berrendale for being angry at his laudable resolution of acting according to those principles which he thought most virtuous , especially as she claimed for herself a similar right . 
Berrendale , gratified by her apology , replied , `` that he saw no objection to her plan , if she chose to deny him the happiness of sharing his income with her , provided she would settle in a village where she was not likely to be known , and change her name . '' 
Berrendale , glad to be forgiven on any terms , promised to comply with her wishes ; and he having recommended to her to settle at a village some few miles north of London , Adeline hired there a small but commodious lodging , and issued immediately cards of advertisement , stating what she meant to teach , and on what terms ; while Berrendale took lodgings within a mile of her , and the faithful mulatto attended her as a servant of all-work . 
Fortunately , at this time , a lady at Richmond , who had a son the age of the tawny boy , became so attached to him , that she was desirous of bringing him up to be the play-fellow and future attendant on her son ; and the mulatto , pleased to have him so well disposed of , resisted the poor little boy 's tears and reluctance at the idea of being separated from her and Adeline : and before she left Richmond she had the satisfaction of seeing him comfortably settled in the house of his patroness . 
Adeline succeeded in her undertaking even beyond her utmost wishes . 
Though unknown and unrecommended , there was in her countenance and manner a something so engaging , so strongly inviting confidence , and so decisively bespeaking the gentlewoman , that she soon excited in the village general respect and attention : and no sooner were scholars intrusted to her care , than she became the idol of her pupils ; and their improvement was rapid in proportion to the love which they bore her . 
This fortunate circumstance proved a balm to the wounded mind of Adeline . 
She felt that she had recovered her usefulness -- that desideratum in morals ; and life , spite of her misfortunes , acquired a charm in her eyes . 
True it was , that she was restored to her capability of being useful , by being where she was unknown ; and because the mulatto , unknown to her , had described her as reduced to earn her living , on account of the death of the man to whom she was about to be married : but she did not revert to the reasons of her being so generally esteemed ; she contented herself with the consciousness of being so ; and for some months she was tranquil , though not happy . 
But her tranquillity was destined to be of short duration . 
The village in which Adeline resided happened to be the native place of Mary Warner , the servant whom she had been forced to dismiss at Richmond ; and who having gone from Mrs. Pemberton to another situation , which she had also quitted , came to visit her friends . 
The wish of saying lessening things of those of whom one hears extravagant commendations , is , I fear , common to almost every one , even where the object praised comes in no competition with oneself : -- and when Mary Warner heard from every quarter of the grace and elegance , affability and active benevolence of the new comer , it was no doubt infinitely gratifying to her to be able to exclaim , -- `` Mowbray ! 
did you say her name is ? 
But so greatly were her auditors prepossessed in favour of Adeline , that very few of them could be prevailed upon to believe Mary 's supposition was just ; and so much was she piqued at the disbelief which she met with , that she declared she would go to church the next Sunday to shame the hussey , and go up and speak to her in the church-yard before all the people . 
Mean while , as we are all of us but too apt to repeat stories to the prejudice of others , even though we do not believe them , this strange assertion of Mary was circulated through the village even by Adeline 's admirers ; and the next Sunday was expected by the unconscious Adeline alone with no unusual eagerness . 
Sunday came ; and Adeline , as she was wont to do , attended the service : but , from the situation of her pew , she could neither see Mary nor be seen by her till church was over . 
Adeline then , as usual , was walking down the broad walk of the church-yard , surrounded by the parents of the children who came to her school , and receiving from them the customary marks of respect , when Mary , bustling through the crowd , accosted her with ; -- `` So ! 
Adeline , though in the gaily-dressed lady who accosted her she had some difficulty in recognising her quondam servant , recollected the pert shrill voice and insolent manner of Mary immediately ; and involuntarily starting when she addressed her , from painful associations and fear of impending evil , she replied , `` How are you , Mary ? '' 
Adeline spoke not , but walked hastily on : -- but Mary kept pace with her , speaking as loud as she could . 
Still Adeline spoke not . 
At this mischievously-intended question Adeline 's other sensations were lost in strong indignation ; and resuming all the modest but collected dignity of her manner , she turned round , and , fixing her eyes steadily on the insulting girl , exclaimed aloud , `` Woman , I never injured you either in thought , word , or deed : -- Whence comes it , then , that you endeavour to make the finger of scorn point at me , and make me shrink with shame and confusion from the eye of observation ? '' 
Having said this , he overtook the agitated Adeline ; and offering her his arm , saw her home to her lodgings : while those who had heard with surprise and suspicion the strange and impertinent questions and insolent tone of Mary , resumed in a degree their confidence in Adeline , and turned a disgusted and deaf ear to the hysterical vehemence with which the half-sobbing Mary defended herself , and vilified Adeline , as her father and brother-in-law , almost by force , led her out of the church-yard . 
The gentleman who had so kindly stepped forward to the assistance of Adeline was Mr. Beauclerc , the surgeon of the village , a man of considerable abilities and liberal principles ; and when he bade Adeline farewell , he said , `` My wife will do herself the pleasure of calling on you this evening ; '' then , kindly pressing her hand , he with a respectful bow took his leave . 
Luckily for Adeline , Berrendale was detained in town that day ; and she was spared the mortification of showing herself to him , writhing as she then was under the agonies of public shame , for such it seemed to her . 
Convinced as she was of the light in which she must have appeared to the persons around her from the malicious interrogatories of Mary ; -- convinced too , as she was more than beginning to be , of the fallacy of the reasoning which had led her to deserve , and even to glory in , the situation which she now blushed to hear disclosed ; -- and conscious as she was , that to remain in the village , and expect to retain her school , was now impossible -- she gave herself up to a burst of sorrow and despondence ; during which her only consolation was , that it was not witnessed by Berrendale . 
It never for a moment entered into the ingenuous mind of Adeline , that her declaration would have more weight than that of Mary Warner ; and that she might , with almost a certainty of being believed , deny her charge entirely : on the contrary , she had no doubt but that Mrs. Beauclerc was coming to inquire into the grounds for Mary 's gross address ; and she was resolved to confess to her all the circumstances of her story . 
After church in the afternoon Mrs. Beauclerc arrived , and Adeline observed , with pleasure , that her manner was even kinder than usual ; it was such as to ensure the innocent of the most strenuous support , and to invite the guilty to confidence and penitence . 
Adeline never before was so strongly tempted to violate the truth ; and there was a friendly earnestness in Mrs. Beauclerc 's manner , which proved that it would be almost cruel to destroy the opinion which she entertained of her virtue . 
For a moment Adeline felt disposed to yield to the temptation , but it was only for a moment , -- and in a hurried and broken voice she replied , `` Mary Warner has asserted of me nothing but -- '' Here her voice faltered . 
resumed Adeline . 
cried Mrs. Beauclerc , dropping the cold hand which she held : and Adeline , covering her face , and throwing herself back in the chair , sobbed aloud . 
`` To no arts -- to no seductions '' -- replied Adeline , recovering all her energy at this insinuation against Glenmurray . 
Mrs. Beauclerc promised the most patient attention ; and Adeline related the eventful history of her life , slightly dwelling on those parts of it which in any degree reflected on her mother , and extolling most highly her sense , her accomplishments , and her maternal tenderness . 
When she came to the period of Glenmurray 's illness and death , she broke abruptly off and rushed into her own chamber ; and it was some minutes before she could return to Mrs. Beauclerc , or before her visitor could wish her to return , as she was herself agitated and affected by the relation which she had heard ; -- and when Adeline came in she threw her arms round her neck , and pressed her to her heart with a feeling of affection that spoke consolation to the wounded spirit of the mourner . 
She then resumed her narration ; -- and , having concluded it , Mrs. Beauclerc , seizing her hand , exclaimed , `` For God 's sake , marry Mr. Berrendale immediately ; and abjure for ever , at the foot of the altar , those errors in opinion to which all your misery has been owing ! '' 
`` I thought so , '' cried Adeline ; `` I thought all idea of remaining here , with any chance of keeping my scholars , was now impossible . '' 
Indeed it was long before the parting took place Mrs. Beauclerc had justly appreciated the merits of Adeline , and thought she had found in her a friend and companion for years to come : besides , her children were most fondly attached to her ; and Mrs. Beauclerc , while she contemplated their daily improvement under her care , felt grateful to Adeline for the unfolding excellencies of her daughters . 
Still , to part with her was unavoidable ; but the pang of separation was in a degree soothed to Adeline by the certainty which Mrs. Beauclerc 's sorrow gave her , that , spite of her errors , she had inspired a real friendship in the bosom of a truly virtuous and respectable woman ; and this idea gave a sensation of joy to her heart to which it had long been a stranger . 
But Adeline refused to enter upon any school duties , bidding them affectionately farewell , and telling them that she was going to write to their parents , as she was obliged to leave her present situation , and , declining keeping school , meant to reside , she believed , in London . 
The children on hearing this looked at each other with almost tearful consternation ; and Adeline observed , with pleasure , the interest which she had made to herself in their young hearts . 
After they were gone she sent a circular letter to her friends in the village , importing that she was under the necessity of leaving her present residence ; but that , whatever her future situation might be , she should always remember , with gratitude , the favours which she had received at -- . 
The necessity that drove her away was , by this time , very well understood by every one ; but Mrs. Beauclerc took care to tell those who mentioned the subject to her , the heads of Adeline 's story ; and to add always , `` and I have reason to believe that , as soon as she is settled in town , she will be extremely well married . '' 
To the mulatto the change in Adeline 's plans was particularly pleasing , as it would bring her nearer her son , and nearer William , from whom nothing but a sense of grateful duty to Adeline would so long have divided her . 
But Savanna imagined that Adeline 's removal was owing to her having at last determined to marry Mr. Berrendale ; an event which she , for Adeline 's sake , earnestly wished to take place , though for her own she was undecided whether to desire it or not , as Mr. Berrendale might not , perhaps , be as contented with her services as Adeline was . 
While these thoughts were passing in Savanna 's mind , and her warm and varying feelings were expressed by alternate smiles and tears , Mr. Berrendale arrived from town : and as Savanna opened the door to him , she , half whimpering half smiling , dropped him a very respectful curtsey , and looked at him with eyes full of unusual significance . 
`` And so you shall , Savanna , '' cried Berrendale , grasping her hand , `` and I -- '' Here the door opened , and Adeline appeared ; who , surprised at Berrendale 's familiarity with her servant , looked gravely , and stopped at the door with a look of cold surprise . 
Adeline with an air of pique observed , that she feared she interrupted them unpleasantly , as something unusually agreeable and enlivening seemed to occupy them as she came in , over which her entrance seemed to have cast a cloud . 
cried Adeline . 
Adeline , turning even paler than she was before , desired her coldly to leave the room ; and , seating herself at the greatest possible distance from Berrendale , leaned for some time in silence on her hand -- he not daring to interrupt her meditations . 
On hearing this , which Adeline uttered with considerable effort , Berrendale in a moment was at her side , and almost at her feet . 
`` I -- I wish you to return to your seat , '' said Adeline coldly : but hope had emboldened him , and he chose to stay where he was . 
`` But , before I require you to renew your promises , or make any on my side , it is proper that I should tell you what passed yesterday ; and if the additional load of obloquy which I have acquired does not frighten you from continuing your addresses -- '' Here Adeline paused : -- and Berrendale , rather drawing back , then pushing his chair nearer her as he spoke , gravely answered , that his affection was proof against all trials . 
Adeline then briefly related the scene in the churchyard , and her conversation with Mrs. Beauclerc , and concluded thus : -- `` In consequence of this , and of the recollection of HIS advice , and HIS decided opinion , that by becoming the wife of a respectable man I could alone expect to recover my rank in society , and consequently my usefulness , I offer you my hand ; and promise , in the course of a few months , to become yours in the sight of God and man . '' 
Berrendale , gratified and surprised , attempted to take her hand ; but , withdrawing it , she continued thus : -- `` Still I almost scruple to let you , unblasted as your prospects are , take to wife a beggar , blasted in reputation , broken in spirits , with a heart whose best affections lie buried in the grave , and which can offer you in return for your faithful tenderness nothing but cold respect and esteem ; one too who is not only despicable to others , but also self-condemned . '' 
While Adeline said this , Berrendale , almost shuddering at the picture which she drew , paced the room in great agitation ; and even the gratification of his passion , used as he was to the indulgence of every wish , seemed , for a moment , a motive not sufficiently powerful to enable him to unite his fate to that of a woman so degraded as Adeline appeared to be ; and he would , perhaps , have hesitated to accept the hand she offered , had she not added , as a contrast to the picture which she had drawn -- `` But if , in spite of all these unwelcome considerations , you persist in your resolution of making me yours , and I have resolution enough to conquer the repugnance that I feel to make a second connexion , you may depend on possessing in me one who will study your happiness and wishes in the minutest particulars ; -- one who will cherish you in sickness and in sorrow ; -- -LRB- here a twinge of the gout assisted Adeline 's appeal very powerfully ;-RRB- and who , conscious of the generosity of your attachment , and her own unworthiness , will strive , by every possible effort , not to remain your debtor even in affection . '' 
Saying this , she put out her hand to Berrendale ; and that hand , and the arm belonging to it , were so beautiful , and he had so often envied Glenmurray while he saw them tenderly supporting his head , that while a vision of approaching gout , and Adeline bending over his restless couch , floated before him , all his prudent considerations vanished ; and , eagerly pressing the proffered hand to his lips , he thanked her most ardently for her kind promise ; and , putting his arm round her waist , would have pressed her to his bosom . 
But the familiarity was ill-timed ; -- Adeline was already surprised , and even shocked , at the lengths which she had gone ; and starting almost with loathing from his embrace , she told him it grew late , and it was time for him to go to his lodgings . 
She then retired to her own room , and spent half the night at least in weeping over the remembrance of Glenmurray , and in loudly apostrophizing his departed spirit . 
The next day Adeline , out of the money which she had earned , discharged her lodgings ; and having written a farewell note to Mrs. Beauclerc , begging to hear of her now and then , she and the mulatto proceeded to town , with Berrendale , in search of apartments ; and having procured them , Adeline began to consider by what means , till she could resolve to marry Berrendale , she should help to maintain herself , and also contrive to increase their income if she became his wife . 
The success which she had met with in instructing children , led her to believe that she might succeed in writing little hymns and tales for their benefit ; a method of getting money which she looked upon to be more rapid and more lucrative than working plain or fancy works : and , in a short time , a little volume was ready to be offered to a bookseller ; -- nor was it offered in vain . 
Glenmurray 's bookseller accepted it ; and the sum which he gave , though trifling , imparted a balsam to the wounded mind of Adeline : it seemed to open to her the path of independence ; and to give her , in spite of her past errors , the means of serving her fellow-creatures . 
But month after month elapsed , and Glenmurray had been dead two years , yet still Adeline could not prevail on herself to fix a time for her marriage . 
But next to the aversion she felt to marrying at all , was that which she experienced at the idea of having no fortune to bestow on the disinterested Berrendale ; and so desirous was she of his acquiring some little property by his union with her , that she resolved to ask counsel 's opinion on the possibility of her claiming a sum of money which Glenmurray had bequeathed to her , but without , as Berrendale had assured her , the customary formalities . 
Still Adeline was so unwilling to be under so many pecuniary obligations to a man whom she did not love , that she resolved to take advice on the subject , much against the will of Berrendale , who thought the money for fees might as well be saved ; but as a chance for saving the fee he resolved to let Adeline go to the lawyer 's chambers alone , thinking it likely that no fee would be accepted from so fine a woman . 
Accordingly , more alive to oeconomy than to delicacy or decorum , Berrendale , when Adeline , desiring a coach to be called , summoned him to accompany her to the Temple , pleaded terror of an impending fit of the gout , and begged her to excuse his attendance ; and Adeline , unsuspicious of the real cause of his refusal , kindly expressing her sorrow for the one he feigned , took the counsellor 's address , and got into the coach , Berrendale taking care to tell her , as she got in , that the fare was but a shilling . 
The gentleman , Mr. Langley , to whom Adeline was going , was celebrated for his abilities as a chamber counsellor , and no less remarkable for his gallantries : but Berrendale was not acquainted with this part of his history ; else he would not , even to save a lawyer 's fee , have exposed his intended wife to a situation of such extreme impropriety ; and Adeline was too much a stranger to the rules of general society , to feel any great repugnance to go alone on an errand so interesting to her feelings . 
The coach having stopped near the entrance of the court to which she was directed , Adeline , resolving to walk home , discharged the coach , and knocked at the door of Mr. Langley 's chambers . 
A very smart servant out of livery answered the knock ; and Mr. Langley being at home , Adeline was introduced into his apartment . 
Mr. Langley , though surprised at seeing a lady of a deportment so correct and of so dignified an appearance enter his room unattended , was inspired with so much respect at sight of Adeline , whose mourning habit added to the interest which her countenance never failed to excite , that he received her with bows down to the ground , and , leading her to a chair , begged she would do him the honour to be seated , and impart her commands . 
Adeline embarrassed , she scarcely knew why , at the novelty of her situation , drew the paper from her pocket , and presented it to him . 
`` Mr. Berrendale recommended me to you , sir , '' said Adeline faintly . 
-- Adeline , unprepared for this question , could not speak ; and the voluble counsellor went on -- `` Oh ! 
`` More than two years , sir , '' replied Adeline faintly . 
-- Adeline bowed . 
There was a something in Mr. Langley 's manner and look so like sir Patrick 's , that she could not bear to let him know she was only Glenmurray 's mistress . 
So saying , he perused the paper which Adeline had given him , in which Glenmurray simply stated , that he bequeathed to Adeline Mowbray the sum of 260l . 
Pray , madam , -- if I may presume to ask , -- Who is Adeline Mowbray ? '' 
`` I -- I am Adeline Mowbray , '' replied Adeline in great confusion . 
`` I was no relation of his , '' said Adeline still more confused ; and this confusion confirmed the suspicions which Langley entertained , and also brought to his recollection something which he had heard of Glenmurray 's having a very elegant and accomplished mistress . 
` Pon my soul , '' taking her hand , which Adeline indignantly withdrew , `` I am grieved beyond words at being unable to give you a more favourable opinion . '' 
`` But you said , sir , '' said Adeline , `` that the heir at law , if he had any equity , would certainly be guided by the evident intention of the testator . '' 
`` I did , madam , '' replied the lawyer , evidently piqued by the proud and cold air which Adeline assumed ; -- `` but then , -- excuse me , -- the applicant would not stand much chance of being attended to , who is neither the widow nor relation of Mr. Glenmurray . '' 
`` I understand you , sir , '' replied Adeline , `` and need trouble you no longer . '' 
not in the least , '' replied Langley , blushing even more than Adeline , `` my fair client was just going . 
Allow me , madam , to see you to the door , '' continued he , attempting to take Adeline 's hand , and accompanying her to the bottom of the first flight of stairs . 
cried he , speaking through his shut teeth , and forcibly squeezing her fingers as he spoke ; `` and if you ever want advice I should be proud to see you here ; at present I am particularly engaged , -LRB- with a significant smile ;-RRB- but -- '' Here Adeline , too angry to speak , put the fee in his hand , which he insisted on returning , and , in the struggle , he forcibly kissed the ungloved hand which was held out , praising its beauty at the same time , and endeavouring to close her fingers on the money : but Adeline indignantly threw it on the ground , and rushed down the remaining staircase ; over-hearing the lady , as she did so , exclaim , `` Langley ! 
Adeline felt so disappointed , so ashamed , and so degraded , that she walked on some way without knowing whither she was going ; and when she recollected herself , she found that she was wandering from court to court , and unable to find the avenue to the street down which the coach had come : while her very tall figure , heightened colour , and graceful carriage , made her an object of attention to every one whom she met . 
At last she saw herself followed by two young men ; and as she walked very fast to avoid them , she by accident turned into the very lane which she had been seeking : but her pursuers kept pace with her ; and she overheard one of them say to the other , `` A devilish fine girl ! 
Here Adeline relaxed in her pace : the name of Glenmurray -- that name which no one since his death had ventured to pronounce in her presence , -- had , during the last half hour , been pronounced several times ; and , unable to support herself from a variety of emotions , she stopped , and leaned for support against the wall . 
said one of the gentlemen : -- and Adeline , roused at the insult , looked at him proudly and angrily , and walked on . 
`` No , sir , '' replied Adeline ; `` you are wholly unknown to me . '' 
Here , as his companion gave way to a loud fit of laughter , Adeline clearly understood what he meant by the term `` friend ; '' and summoning up all her spirit , she called a coach which luckily was passing ; and turning round to her tormentor , with great dignity said , -- `` Though the situation , sir , in which I once was , may in the eyes of the world , and in yours , authorise and excuse your present insulting address , yet , when I tell you that I am on the eve of marriage with a most respectable man , I trust that you will feel the impropriety of your conduct , and be convinced of the fruitlessness and impertinence of the questions which you have put to me . '' 
So saying , he bowed and left her , and Adeline was driven to her lodgings . 
`` Now , '' said Adeline , `` the die is cast ; -- I have used the sacred name of wife to shield me from insult ; and I am therefore pledged to assume it directly . 
She found Berrendale rather alarmed at her long absence ; and , with a beating heart , she related her adventures to him : but when she said that Langley was not willing to take the fee , he exclaimed , `` Very genteel in him , indeed ! 
replied Adeline , `` Do you think I would deign to owe such a man a pecuniary obligation ? 
`` Mr. Berrendale , '' cried Adeline gravely , and with a look bordering on contempt , `` I trust that you are not in earnest : for if these are your sentiments , -- if this is your delicacy , sir -- '' `` Say no more , dearest of women , '' replied Berrendale pretending to laugh , alarmed at the seriousness with which she spoke : `` how could you for one moment suppose me in earnest ? 
`` I wish you had , '' said Adeline , `` for then no one would have dared to insult me : '' and Berrendale , delighted at this observation , listened to the rest of her story with a spirit of indignant knight-errantry which he never experienced before ; and at the end of her narration he felt supremely happy ; for Adeline assured him that the next week she would make him her protector for life : -- and this assurance opened his heart so much , that he vowed he would not condescend to claim of the heir at law the pitiful sum which he might think proper to withhold . 
-- Adeline kept her word ; and resolutely struggling with her feelings , she became the next week the wife of Berrendale . 
Adeline was so assiduous to anticipate her husband 's wishes , and contrived so many dainties for his table , which she cooked with her own hands , that Berrendale , declaring himself completely happy for the first time in his life , had not a thought or a wish beyond his own fire-side ; while Adeline , happy because she conferred happiness , and proud of the name of wife , which she had before despised , began to hope that her days would glide on in humble tranquillity . 
It was natural enough that Adeline should be desirous of imparting this change in her situation to Mrs. Pemberton , whose esteem she was eager to recover , and whose kind intentions towards her , at a moment when she was incapable of appreciating them , Savanna had , with great feeling , expatiated upon . 
In a short time Adeline had again an expectation of being a mother ; and though she could not yet entertain for her husband more than cold esteem , she felt that as the father of her child he would insensibly become more dear to her . 
Adeline , more eager to gratify Berrendale 's palate than considerate as to the means , had forgotten that she was no longer at the head of a liberal establishment like her mother 's , and had bought for the supply of the table many expensive articles . 
In consequence of this terrible discovery Berrendale remonstrated very seriously with Adeline ; who meekly answered , `` My dear friend , good dinners can not be had without good ingredients , and good ingredients can not be had without money . '' 
`` There may have been both , '' returned Adeline , `` for I have not been used to oeconomize , but I will try to learn ; -- but I doubt , my dear Berrendale , you must endeavour to be contented with plainer food ; for not all the oeconomy in the world can make rich gravies and high sauces cheap things . '' 
`` He only said , '' replied Adeline sighing deeply , `` that I was a good cook , and you yourself allow that : but I hope in time to please your appetite at less expense : as to myself , a little suffices me , and I care not how plain that food is . '' 
Adeline , shocked at the manner more than at the words , replied in a faltering voice , `` As a proof of my being in health , no doubt you rejoiced in the sight . '' 
Adeline looked up , wishing , though not expecting , to see by his face that he was joking : but such serious displeasure appeared on it , that the sordid selfishness of his character was at once unveiled to her view ; and clasping her hands in agony , she exclaimed , `` Oh , Glenmurray ! '' 
and ran into her own room . 
It was the first time that she had pronounced his name since the hour of his death , and now it was wrung from her by a sensation of acute anguish ; no wonder , then , that the feelings which followed completely overcame her , and that Berrendale had undisputed and solitary possession of his supper . 
was capable of being interpreted two ways : -- either it showed how much she regretted Glenmurray , and preferred him to his successor in spite of the superior beauty of his person , of which he was very vain ; or it reproached Glenmurray for having recommended her to marry him . 
Adeline rose the next day dejected , pensive , and resolved that her appetite should never again , if possible , force a reproach from the lips of her husband . 
She therefore took care that whatever she provided for the table , besides the simplest fare , should be for Berrendale alone ; and she flattered herself that he would be shamed into repentance of what he had observed , by seeing her scrupulous self-denial : -- she even resolved , if he pressed her to partake of his dainties , that she would , to show that she forgave him , accept what he offered . 
But Berrendale gave her no such opportunity of showing her generosity ; -- busy in the gratification of his own appetite , he never observed whether any other persons ate or not , except when by eating they curtailed his share of good things : -- besides , to have an exclusive dish to himself seemed to him quite natural and proper ; he had been a pampered child ; and , being no advocate for the equality of the sexes , he thought it only a matter of course that he should fare better than his wife . 
Adeline , though more surprised and more shocked than ever , could not help laughing internally , at her not being able to put her projected generosity in practice ; but her laughter and indignation soon yielding to contempt , she ate her simple meal in silence : and while her pampered husband sought to lose the fumes of indigestion in sleep , she blessed God that temperance , industry and health went hand in hand ; and , retiring to her own room , sat down to write , in order to increase , if possible , her means of living , and consequently her power of being generous to others . 
But though Adeline resolved to forget , if possible , the petty conduct of Berrendale , -- the mulatto , who , from the door 's being open , had heard every word of the conversation which had so disturbed Adeline , neither could nor would forget it ; and though she did not vow eternal hatred to her master , she felt herself very capable of indulging it , and from that moment it was her resolution to thwart him . 
Whenever he was present , she was always urging Adeline to eat some refreshments between meals , and drink wine or lemonade , and tempting her weak appetite with some pleasant but expensive sweetmeats . 
In vain did Adeline refuse them ; sometimes they were bought , sometimes only threatened to be bought ; and once when Adeline had accepted some , rather than mortify Savanna by a refusal , and Berrendale , by his accent and expression , showed how much he grudged the supposed expense , -- the mulatto , snapping her fingers in his face , and looking at him with an expression of indignant contempt , exclaimed , `` I buy dem , and pay for dem wid mine nown money ; and my angel lady sall no be oblige to you ! '' 
This was a declaration of war against Berrendale , which Adeline heard with anger and sorrow , and her husband with rage . 
In vain did Adeline promise that she would seriously reprove Savanna -LRB- who had disappeared -RRB- for her impertinence ; Berrendale insisted on her being discharged immediately ; and nothing but Adeline 's assurances that she , for slender wages , did more work than two other servants would do for enormous ones , could pacify his displeasure : but at length he was appeased . 
And as Berrendale , from a principle of oeconomy , resumed his old habit of dining out amongst his friends , getting good dinners by that means without paying for them , family expenses ceased to disturb the quiet of their marriage ; and after she had been ten months a wife Adeline gave birth to a daughter . 
That moment , the moment when she heard her infant 's first cry , seemed to repay her for all she had suffered ; every feeling was lost in the maternal one ; and she almost fancied that she loved , fondly loved , the father of her child : but this idea vanished when she saw the languid pleasure , if pleasure it could be called , with which Berrendale congratulated her on her pain and danger being past , and received his child in his arms . 
The mulatto was wild with joy : she almost stifled the babe with her kisses , and talked even the next day of sending for the tawny boy to come and see his new mistress , and vow to her , as he had done to her mother , eternal fealty and allegiance . 
But Adeline saw on Berrendale 's countenance a mixed expression , -- and he had mixed feelings . 
True , he rejoiced in Adeline 's safety ; but he said within himself , `` Children are expensive things , and we may have a large family ; '' and , leaving the bed-side as soon as he could , he retired , to endeavour to lose in an afternoon 's nap his unpleasant reflections . 
`` How different , '' thought Adeline , `` would have been HIS feelings and HIS expressions of them at such a time ! 
-- '' but the name of Glenmurray died away on her lips ; and hastily turning to gaze on her sleeping babe , she tried to forget the disappointed emotions of the wife in the gratified feelings of the mother . 
Still Adeline , who had been used to attentions , could not but feel the neglect of Berrendale . 
Even while she kept her room he passed only a few hours in her society , and dined out ; and when she was well enough to have accompanied him on his visits , she found that he never even wished her to go with him , though the friends whom he visited were married ; and he met , from his own confession , other ladies at their tables . 
She therefore began to suspect that Berrendale did not mean to introduce her as his wife ; nay , she doubted whether he avowed her to be such ; and at last she brought him to own that , ashamed of having married what the world must consider as a kept mistress , he resolved to keep her still in the retirement to which she was habituated . 
This was a severe disappointment indeed to Adeline : she longed for the society of the amiable and accomplished of her own sex ; and hoped that , as Mr. Berrendale 's wife , that intercourse with her own sex might be restored to her which she had forfeited as the mistress of Glenmurray . 
Adeline had both sorts of kindness and affection , those untaught of the heart , and those of education ; -- she was polite from the situation into which the accident of birth had thrown her , and also from the generous impulse of her nature . 
To her , therefore , the uncultivated and unblushing personnalité , as the French call it , of Berrendale , was a source of constant wonder and distress : and often , very often did she feel the utmost surprise at Berrendale 's having appeared to Glenmurray a man likely to make her happy . 
Often did she wonder how the defects of Berrendale 's character could have escaped his penetrating eyes . 
Adeline forgot that the faults of her husband were such as could be known only by an intimate connexion , and which cohabitation could alone call forth ; -- faults , the existence of which such a man as Glenmurray , who never considered himself in any transaction whatever , could not suppose possible ; -- and which , though they inflicted the most bitter pangs on Adeline , and gradually untwisted the slender thread which had begun to unite her heart with Berrendale 's , were of so slight a fabric as almost to elude the touch , and of a nature to appear almost too trivial to be mentioned in the narration of a biographer . 
But Adeline , who , amidst all the chimoeras of her fancy and singularities of her opinions , had happily held fast her religion , began at this moment to entertain a belief that soothed in some measure the sorrows which it could not cure . 
She fancied that all the sufferings she underwent were trials which she was doomed to undergo , as punishments for the crime she had committed in leaving her mother and living with Glenmurray ; and as expiations also . 
She therefore welcomed her afflictions , and lifted up her meek eyes to heaven in every hour of her trials , with the look of tearful but grateful resignation . 
Meanwhile her child , whom , after her mother , she called Editha , was nursed at her own bosom , and thrived even beyond her expectations . 
Even Berrendale beheld its growing beauty with delight , and the mulatto was wild in praise of it ; while Adeline , wholly taken up all day in nursing and in working for it , and every evening in writing stories and hymns to publish , which would , she hoped , one day be useful to her own child as well as to the children of others , soon ceased to regret her seclusion from society ; and by the time Editha was a year old she had learnt to bear with patience the disappointment she had experienced in Berrendale . 
Soon after she became a mother she again wrote to Mrs. Pemberton , as she longed to impart to her sympathizing bosom those feelings of parental delight which Berrendale could not understand , and the expression of which he witnessed with contemptuous and chilling gravity . 
To this letter she anticipated a most gratifying return ; but month after month passed away , and no letter from Lisbon arrived . 
`` No doubt my letter miscarried , '' said Adeline to Savanna , `` and I will write again : '' but she never had resolution to do so ; for she felt that her prospects of conjugal happiness were obscured , and she shrunk equally from the task of expressing the comfort which she did not feel , or unveiling to another the errors of her husband . 
The little regard , mean while , which she had endeavoured to return for Berrendale soon vanished , being unable to withstand a new violence offered to it . 
Editha was seized with the hooping-cough ; and as Adeline had sold her last little volume to advantage , Berrendale allowed her to take a lodging at a short distance from town , as change of air was good for the complaint . 
She did so , and remained there two months . 
At her return she had the mortification to find that her husband , during her absence , had intrigued with the servant of the house ; -- a circumstance of which she would probably have remained ignorant , but for the indiscreet affection of Savanna , who , in the first transports of her indignation on discovering the connexion , had been unable to conceal from her mistress what drove her almost frantic with indignation . 
But Adeline , though she felt disgust and aversion swallowing up the few remaining sparks of regard for Berrendale which she felt , had one great consolation under this new calamity . 
-- Berrendale had not been the choice of her heart : `` But , thank God ! 
I never loved this man , '' escaped her lips as she ran into her own room ; and pressing her child to her bosom , she shed on its unconscious cheeks the tears which resentment and a deep sense of injury wrung from her . 
had I loved him , '' she exclaimed , `` this blow would have been mortal ! '' 
She , however , found herself in one respect the better for Berrendale 's guilt . 
Conscious that the mulatto was aware of what had passed , and afraid lest she should have mentioned her discovery to Adeline , Berrendale endeavoured to make amends for his infidelity by attention such as he had never shown her since the first weeks of his marriage ; and had she not been aware of the motive , the change in his behaviour would have reawakened her tenderness . 
However , it claimed at least complaisance and gentleness from her while it lasted : which was not long ; for Berrendale , fancying from the apparent tranquillity of Adeline -LRB- the result of indifference , not ignorance , -RRB- that she was not informed of his fault , and that the mulatto was too prudent to betray him , began to relapse into his old habits ; and one day , forgetting his assumed liberality , he ventured , when alone with Savanna , who was airing one of Editha 's caps , to expatiate on the needless extravagance of his wife in trimming her child 's caps with lace . 
-- You best get a cheap miss from de street and be content -- '' As she said this , and in an accent so provoking that Berrendale was pale and speechless with rage , Adeline entered the room ; and Savanna , self-condemned already for what she had uttered , was terrified when Adeline , in a tone of voice unusually severe , said , `` Leave the room ; you have offended me past forgiveness . '' 
These words , in a great measure , softened the angry feelings of Berrendale , as they proved that Adeline resented the insult offered to him as deeply as he could wish ; and with some calmness he exclaimed , `` Then I conclude , Mrs. Berrendale , that you will have no objection to discharge your mulatto directly ? '' 
This conclusion , though a very natural one , was both a shock and a surprise to Adeline ; nor could she at first reply . 
`` Ye , -- yes , -- certainly , '' faltered out Adeline ; `` she -- she ought to go -- I mean that she has used very improper language to you . '' 
`` True , very true in some measure , '' replied Adeline ; `` but -- '' `` But what ? '' 
cried Adeline , bursting into an agony of frantic sorrow , `` if she leaves me , what will become of me ! 
He was conscious , indeed , that his fidelity to his wife had not been proof against a few weeks ' absence ; but then , being , like most men , not over delicate in his ideas on such subjects , as soon as Adeline returned he had given up the connexion which he had formed , and therefore he thought she had not much reason to complain . 
In all other respects he was sure that he was an exemplary husband , and she had no just grounds for doubting his affection . 
He was sure that she had no reason to accuse him of unkindness ; and , unless she wished him to be always tied to her apron-string , he was certain he had never omitted to pay her all proper attention . 
A minute , and more perhaps , elapsed , before Berrendale recovered himself sufficiently to speak ; and the silence was made still more awful to Adeline , by her hearing from the adjoining room the sobs of the mulatto . 
replied Adeline , fixing her penetrating eyes on his , which shrunk downcast and abashed from her gaze . 
Adeline saw her advantage , and pursued it . 
`` Mr. Berrendale , '' continued she , `` it is indeed true , that the mulatto has offended both of us ; for in offending you she has offended me ; but , have you committed no fault , nothing for me to forgive ? 
Berrendale , conscious and self-condemned , scarcely knew what to answer ; but , thinking that it was better to accept Adeline 's offer even on her own conditions , he said , that if Savanna would make a proper apology , and Adeline would convince her that she was seriously displeased with her , he would allow her to stay ; and Adeline having promised every thing which he asked , peace was again restored . 
`` But what can you mean , Adeline , '' said Berrendale , `` by doubting my affection ? 
To this indelicate and unfeeling remark Adeline vainly endeavoured to reply ; but , starting from her chair , she paced the room in violent agitation . 
Adeline suddenly stopped , and , looking steadfastly at him , smiled with a sort of contemptuous pity , and was on the point of saying , `` Is not what you have now said an instance of unkindness ? '' 
But she saw that the same want of delicacy , and of that fine moral tact which led him to commit this and similar assaults on her feelings , made him unconscious of the violence which he offered . 
Finding , therefore , that he could not understand her causes of complaint , even if it were possible for her to define them , she replied , `` Well , perhaps I was too hasty , and in a degree unjust : so let us drop the subject ; and , indeed , my dear Berrendale , you must bear with my weakness : remember , I have always been a spoiled child . '' 
Here the image of Glenmurray and that of home , the home which she once knew , the home of her childhood , and of her earliest youth , pressed on her recollection . 
She thought of her mother , of the indulgences which she had once known , of the advantages of opulence , the value of which she had never felt till deprived of them ; and , struck with the comparative forlornness of her situation -- united for life to a being whose sluggish sensibilities could not understand , and consequently not sooth , the quick feelings and jealous susceptibility of her nature -- she could hardly forbear falling at the feet of her husband , and conjuring him to behave , at least , with forbearance to her , and to speak and look at her with kindness . 
She did stretch out her hand to him with a look of mournful entreaty , which , though not understood by Berrendale , was not lost upon him entirely . 
He thought it was a confession of her weakness and his superiority ; and , flattered by the thought into unusual softness , he caught her fondly to his bosom , and gave up an engagement to sup at an oyster club , in order to spend the evening tête-à-tête with his wife . 
Nay , he allowed the little Editha to remain in the room for a whole hour , though she cried when he attempted to take her in his arms , and , observing that it was a cold evening , allowed Adeline her due share of the fire-side . 
These circumstances , trivial as they were , had more than their due effect on Adeline , whose heart was more alive to kindness than unkindness ; and those paltry attentions of which happy wives would not have been conscious , were to her a source of unfeigned pleasure -- As sailors are grateful , after a voyage unexpectedly long , for the muddy water which at their first embarking they would have turned from with disgust . 
That very night Adeline remonstrated with the mulatto on the impropriety of her conduct ; and , having convinced her that in insulting her husband she failed in respect to her , Savanna was prevailed upon the next morning to ask pardon of Berrendale ; and , out of love for her mistress , she took care in future to do nothing that required forgiveness . 
As Adeline 's way of life admitted of but little variety , Berrendale having persisted in not introducing her to his friends , on the plea of not being rich enough to receive company in return , I shall pass over in silence what occurred to her till Editha was two years old ; premising that a series of little injuries on the part of Berrendale , and a quick resentment of them on the part of Adeline , which not even her habitual good humour could prevent , had , during that time , nearly eradicated every trace of love for each other from their hearts . 
One evening Adeline as usual , in the absence of her husband , undressed Edithe by the parlour fire , and , playing with the laughing child , was enjoying the rapturous praises which Savanna put forth of its growing beauty ; while the tawny boy , who had spent the day with them , built houses with cards on the table , which Editha threw down as soon as they were built , and he with good-humoured perseverance raised up again . 
Adeline , alive only to the maternal feeling , at this moment had forgotten all her cares ; she saw nothing but the happy group around her , and her countenance wore the expression of recovered serenity . 
At this moment a loud knock was heard at the door , and Adeline , starting up , exclaimed , `` It is my husband 's knock ! '' 
no : -- he never come so soon , '' replied the mulatto running to the door ; but she was mistaken -- it was Berrendale : and Adeline , hearing his voice , began instantly to snatch up Editha 's clothes , and to knock down the tawny boy 's newly-raised edifice : but order was not restored when Berrendale entered ; and , with a look and tone of impatience , he said , `` So ! 
The sunshine of Adeline 's countenance on hearing this vanished : to be sure , she was accustomed to such speeches ; but the moment before she had felt happy , for the first time , perhaps , for years . 
She , however , replied not ; but , hurrying Editha to bed , ordering the reluctant tawny boy into the kitchen , and setting Berrendale 's chair , as usual , in the warmest place , she ventured in a faint voice to ask , what had brought him home so early . 
`` It is very true , '' replied Adeline , `` that , had I expected you , I should have been better prepared for your reception ; and then you , perhaps , would have spoken more kindly to me . '' 
The mulatto , who was staying to gather up the cards which had fallen , turned herself round on hearing this , and exclaimed , `` Home was very comfortable till you come ; '' and then with a look of the most angry contempt she left the room , and threw the door to with great violence . 
said Adeline , eager to turn Berrendale 's attention from Savanna 's insolent reply . 
said Adeline turning pale . 
Adeline 's heart , spite of herself , bounded with joy at this discovery ; but she had resolution to add , -- and if duplicity can ever be pardonable , this was , -- `` So then the good news which you had to impart to me was , that we were going to be separated ! '' 
But as she said this , the consciousness that she was artfully trying to impress Berrendale with an idea of her feeling a sorrow which was foreign to her heart , overcame her ; and affected also at being under the necessity of rejoicing at the departure of that being who ought to be the source of her comfort , she vainly struggled to regain composure , and burst into an agony of tears . 
But her consternation can not be expressed , when she found that Berrendale imputed her tears to tender anguish at the idea of parting with him : and when , his vanity being delighted by this homage to his attractions , he felt all his fondness for her revive , and , overwhelming her with caresses , he declared that he would reject the offer entirely if by accepting it he should give her a moment 's uneasiness ; Adeline , shocked at his error , yet not daring to set him right , could only weep on his shoulder in silence : but , in order to make real the distress which he only fancied so , she enumerated to herself all the diseases incident to the climate , and the danger of the voyage . 
Still the idea of Berrendale 's departure was so full of comfort to her , that , though her tears continued to flow , they flowed not for his approaching absence . 
At length , ashamed of fortifying him in so gross an error , she made an effort to regain her calmness , and found words to assure him , that she would no longer give way to such unpardonable weakness , as she could assure him that she wished his acceptance of his father-in-law 's offer , and had no desire to oppose a scheme so just and so profitable . 
But Berrendale , to whose vanity she had never before offered such a tribute as her tears seemed to be , imputed these assurances to disinterested love and female delicacy , afraid to own the fondness which it felt ; and the rest of the evening was spent in professions of love on his part , which , on Adeline 's , called forth at least some grateful and kind expressions in return . 
Still , however , she persisted in urging Berrendale to go to Jamaica : but , at the same time , she earnestly begged him to remember , that temperance could alone preserve his health in such a climate : -- `` or the use of pepper in great quantities , '' replied he , `` to counteract the effects of good living ? '' 
-- and Adeline , though convinced temperance was the best preservative , was forced to give up the point , especially as Berrendale began to enumerate the number of delicious things for the table which Jamaica afforded . 
a year till he should be able to send over for them , set sail for Jamaica ; while Adeline , the night of his departure , endeavoured , by conjuring up all the horrors of a tempest at sea on his passage , and of a hurricane and an earthquake on shore when he arrived , to force herself to feel such sorrow as the tenderness which he had expressed at the moment of parting seemed to make it her duty to feel . 
But morning came , and with it a feeling of liberty and independence so delightful , that she no longer tried to grieve on speculation as it were ; but giving up her whole soul to the joys of maternal fondness , she looked forward with pious gratitude to days of tranquil repose , save when she thought with bitter regret of the obdurate anger of her mother , and with tender regret of the lost and ever lamented Glenmurray . 
Berrendale had been arrived at Jamaica some months , when Adeline observed a most alarming change in Savanna . 
She became thin , her appetite entirely failed , and she looked the image of despondence . 
In vain did Adeline ask the reason of a change so apparent : the only answer she could obtain was , `` Me better soon ; '' and , continuing every day to give this answer , she in a short time became so languid as to be obliged to lie down half the day . 
Adeline then found that it was necessary to be more serious in her interrogatories ; but the mulatto at first only answered , `` No , me die , but me never break my duty vow to you : no , me die , but never leave you . '' 
These words implying a wish to leave her , with a resolution not to do so how much soever it might cost her , alarmed in a moment the ever disinterested sensibility of Adeline ; and she at length wrung from her a confession that her dear William , who was gone to Jamaica as servant to a gentleman , was , she was credibly informed , very ill and like to die . 
You shall see and try to recover William if he be really ill , '' -LRB- Savanna here threw herself on Adeline 's neck , -RRB- `` and then you shall return to me , who will either warmly share in your satisfaction or fondly sooth your distress . '' 
Indeed I do , next to my child , and , -- and my mother , '' replied Adeline , her voice faltering . 
`` Savanna , '' replied Adeline , `` these proofs of your regard , though reprehensible , are not likely to reconcile me to your departure ; and I already feel that in losing you -- '' Here she paused , unable to proceed . 
`` Enough , '' replied Adeline : `` then all I have to do is to provide you with money for your maintenance when you arrive ; and I have no doubt but that what I can not supply the tawny boy 's generous patroness will . '' 
Adeline was not mistaken . 
Savanna obtained from her son 's benefactress a sum equal to her wants ; and almost instantly restored to her wonted health , by her mind 's being lightened of the load which oppressed it , she took her passage on board her friend 's vessel , and set sail for Jamaica , carrying with her letters from Adeline to Berrendale ; while Adeline felt the want of Savanna in various ways , so forcibly , that not even Editha could , for a time at least , console her for her loss . 
Mrs. Beauclerc , to whose society she had expected to be restored by her marriage , had been forced to give up all intercourse with her , in compliance with the peremptory wishes of a rich old maid , from whom her children had great expectations , and who threatened to leave her fortune away from them , if Mrs. Beauclerc persisted in corresponding with a woman so bad in principle , and so wicked in practice , as Adeline appeared to her to be . 
But , at length , from a mother 's employments , from writing , and , above all , from the idea that by suffering she was making atonement for her past sins , she derived consolation , and became resigned to every evil that had befallen , and to every evil that might still befall her . 
Perhaps she did not consider as an evil what now took place : increasing coldness in the letters of Berrendale , till he said openly at last , that as they were , he was forced to confess , far from happy together , and as the air of Jamaica agreed with him , and as he was resolved to stay there , he thought she had better remain in England , and he would remit her as much money occasionally as his circumstances would admit of . 
But she thought this a greater evil than it at first appeared ; when an agent of Berrendale 's father-in-law in England , and a friend of Berrendale himself , called on her , pretending that he came to inquire concerning her health , and raised in her mind suspicions of a very painful nature . 
`` I am glad to hear it , sir , '' coolly answered Adeline . 
sir , '' replied Adeline ; `` What can you mean ? 
At first Adeline was startled at this assertion ; but recollecting that it was impossible any form or ceremony should have been wanting at the marriage , she recovered herself , and demanded , with an air of severity , what Mr. Drury meant by so alarming and ill-founded a speech . '' 
exclaimed Adeline . 
Saying this , with a very visible sneer on his countenance he departed , leaving Adeline in a state of distress -- the more painful to endure from her having none to participate in it , -- no one to whom she could impart the cause of it . 
That Mr. Drury did not speak of the possible marriage of Berrendale from mere conjecture , was very apparent ; and Adeline resolved not to delay writing to her husband immediately , to inform him of what had passed , and to put before his eyes , in the strongest possible manner , the guilt of what he was about to do ; and also the utter impossibility of its being successful guilt , as she was resolved to assert her claims for the sake of her child , if not for her own . 
This letter she concluded , and with truth too , with protestations of believing all Mr. Drury said to be false : for , indeed , the more she considered Berrendale 's character , the more she was convinced that , however selfish and defective his disposition might be , it was more likely Mr. Drury should be mistaken , than Berrendale be a villain . 
But , where a man 's conduct is not founded on virtuous motives and immutable principles , he may not err while temptation is absent ; but once expose him to her presence , and he is capable of falling into the very vices the most abhorrent to his nature : and though Adeline knew it not , such a man was Berrendale . 
Adeline , having relieved her mind by this appeal to her husband , and being assured that Berrendale could not be married before her letter could reach him , as it was impossible that he should dare to marry while the mulatto was in the very town near which he resided , felt herself capable of attending to her usual employments again , and had recovered her tranquillity , when an answer to her letter arrived ; and Adeline , being certain that the letter itself would be a proof of the marriage , had resolved to show it , in justification of her claims , to Mr. Drury . 
What then must have been her surprise , to find it exactly such a letter as would be evidence against a marriage between her and Berrendale having ever taken place ! 
He thanked her for the expressions of fond regret which her letter contained , and for the many happy hours which he owed to her society ; but hoped that , as Fate had now separated their destinies , she could be as happy without him as she had been with him ; and assuring her that he should , according to his promise , regularly remit her 150l . 
Adeline was absolutely stupified with horror at reading this apparent confirmation of the villany of her husband and the father of her child ; but roused to indignant exertion by the sense of Berrendale 's baseness , and of what she owed her daughter , she resolved to take counsel 's opinion in what manner she should proceed to prove her marriage , as soon as she was assured that Berrendale 's -LRB- which she had no doubt was fixed upon -RRB- should have taken place ; and this intelligence she received a short time after from the mulatto herself , who , worn out with sorrow , sickness and hardship , one day tottered into the house , seeming as if she indeed only returned to die with her mistress . 
At first the joy of seeing Savanna restored to her swallowed up every other feeling ; but tender apprehension for the poor creature 's health soon took possession of her mind , and Adeline drew from her a narrative , which exhibited Berrendale to her eyes as capable of most atrocious actions . 
For some time conscience and Adeline stood their ground against this new mistress and her immense property ; but at length , being pressed by his father-in-law , who wished the match , to assign a sufficient reason for his coldness to so fine a woman , and not daring to give the true one , he returned the lady 's fondness ; and though he had not yet courage enough to name the marriage day , it was known that it would some time or other take place . 
But all his scruples soon yielded to the dominion which the attractions of the lady , who was well versed in the arts of seduction , obtained over his senses , and to the strong power which the sight of the splendor in which she lived , acquired over his avarice ; when , just as every thing was on the point of being concluded , the poor mulatto , who had found her husband dead , arrived almost broken-hearted at the place of Berrendale 's abode , and delivered to him letters from Adeline . 
Terrified and confounded at her presence , he received her with such evident marks of guilty confusion in his face , that Savanna 's apprehensive and suspicious attachment to her mistress took the alarm ; and , as she had seen a very fine woman leave the room as she entered , she , on pretence of leaving Berrendale alone to read his letters , repaired to the servants ' apartments , where she learnt the intended marriage . 
Immediately forgetting her own distresses in those of Adeline , she returned to Berrendale , not with the languid , mournful pace with which she had first entered , but with the firm , impetuous and intrepid step of conscious integrity going to confound vice in the moment of its triumph . 
Berrendale read his doom , the moment he beheld her , in her dark and fiery eye , and awaited in trembling silence the torrent of reproaches that trembled on her lip . 
Suffice that Berrendale pretended to be moved by what she said , and promised to break off the marriage , -- only exacting from Savanna , in return , a promise of not imparting to the servants , or to any one , that he had a wife in England . 
I will not endeavour to describe Adeline 's feelings on hearing this narration , and on finding also that Savanna before she left the island had been assured that Berrendale was really married , though privately , but that the marriage could not long be attempted to be concealed , as the lady even before it took place was likely to become a mother ; and , that as a large estate depended on her giving birth to a son , the event of her confinement was looked for with great anxiety . 
Still , in the midst of her distress , a sudden thought struck Adeline , which converted her anger into joy , and her sorrow into exultation . 
`` Yes , my mother may now forgive me without violating any part of her oath , '' she exclaimed . 
-- and instantly she wrote to Mrs. Mowbray a letter , calculated to call forth all her sympathy and affection . 
Then , with a mind relieved beyond expression , she sat down to deliberate in what manner she should act to do herself justice as a wife and a mother , cruelly aggrieved in both these intimate relations . 
`` He is in Jamaica , sir , '' replied Adeline . 
`` Certainly , sir , '' replied Adeline : `` of what other nature should it be ? '' 
At this moment the tawny boy asked leave to walk in the Temple gardens ; and Adeline , though reluctantly , granted his request . 
`` Never , sir , '' cried Adeline indignantly ; `` but , though I do not exactly understand your meaning , I feel as if you meant to insult me , and therefore -- '' `` Oh no -- sit down again , my angel ; you are mistaken , and so apt to fly off in a tangent ! 
cried Adeline , clasping her hands and looking upwards with tearful eyes , `` when shall my persecutions cease ! 
threw herself carelessly on the sofa , to the astonishment of Adeline , who did not recollect her , and to the confusion of Langley , who now , impressed with involuntary respect for Adeline , repented of having exposed her to the scene that awaited her : but to prevent it was impossible ; he was formed to be the slave of women , and had not courage to protect another from the insolence to which he tamely yielded himself . 
Adeline at first did not answer this soidisant acquaintance of hers ; but , in looking at her more attentively , she exclaimed , `` What do I see ? 
`` Yes , it is , my dear , indeed , '' replied she with a loud laugh , `` Mary Warner , alias Mrs. Montgomery ; as you , you know , are miss Mowbray , alias Mrs. Berrendale . '' 
Adeline , incapable of speaking , only gazed at her in silence , but with ' a countenance more in sorrow than in anger . ' 
Here was the clue to the inveterate dislike which this unhappy girl had conceived against Adeline . 
Adeline , indeed , did not mean that her observation should be overheard by the object of it , -- still she was hated : but many persons make mortifying remarks purposely , and yet wonder that they have enemies ! 
Motionless and almost lifeless Adeline continued to stand and to listen , and Mary went on -- `` Well , but I thank you for one thing . 
This dreadful information roused the feelings of Adeline even to phrensy , and with a shriek of anguish she seized her hand , and conjured her by all her hopes of mercy to retract what she had said , and not to let her depart with the horrible consciousness of having been the means of plunging a fellow-being into vice and infamy . 
`` This then is the completion of my sufferings , '' cried Adeline , -- `` this only was wanted to complete the misery of my remorse . '' 
`` I do believe so , '' hastily replied Adeline ; `` and if it be true that my sentiments and my example led you to adopt your present guilty mode of life , -- oh ! 
At this speech Adeline 's fortitude entirely gave way . 
Her child had not had the small-pox , and she had been for some minutes in reach of the infection ; and with a look of horror , forgetting her business , and every thing but Editha , she was on the point of leaving the room , when a servant hastily entered , and told Mary that her little boy was dead . 
At hearing this , even her cold heart was moved , and throwing herself back on the sofa she fell into a strong hysteric ; while Adeline , losing all remembrance of her insolence in her distress , flew to her assistance ; and , in pity for a mother weeping the loss of her infant , forgot for a moment that she was endangering the life of her own child . 
Mr. Langley , mean time , though grieved for the death of the infant , was alive to the generous forgiving disposition which Adeline evinced ; and could not help exclaiming , `` Oh , Mrs. Berrendale ! 
we deserved not such kindness at your hands : '' and Adeline , wanting to loosen the tight stays of Mary , and not choosing to undress her before such a witness , coldly begged him to withdraw , advising him at the same time to go and see whether the child was really dead , as it might possibly only appear so . 
Revived by this possibility , Mr. Langley left Mary to the care of Adeline , and left the room . 
But whether it was that Mary had a mind to impress her lover and the father of her child with an idea of her sensibility , or whether she had overheard Adeline 's supposition , certain it is , that as soon as Langley went away , and Adeline began to unlace her stays , she hastily recovered , and declared her stays should remain as they were : but still exclaiming about her poor dear Benny , she kept her arms closely clasped round Adeline 's waist , and reposed her head on her bosom . 
Adeline 's fears and pity for her being thus allayed , she began to have leisure to feel and fear for herself ; and the idea , that , by being in such close contact with Mary , she was imbibing so much of the disease as must inevitably communicate it to Editha , recurred so forcibly to her mind , that , begging for God 's sake she would loose her hold , she endeavoured to break from the arms of her tormentor . 
-- As soon as Mary saw that Adeline wished to leave her , she was the more eager to hold her fast ; and protesting she should die if she had the barbarity to leave her alone , she only hugged her the closer . 
`` Well , then , I 'll try to stay till Mr. Langley returns , '' cried Adeline : but some minutes elapsed , and Mr. Langley did not return ; and then Adeline , recollecting that when he did return he would come fresh fraught with the pestilence from the dead body of his infant , could no longer master her feelings , but screaming wildly , -- `` I shall be the death of my child ; for God 's sake let me go , '' -- she struggled with the determined Mary . 
`` You will drive me mad if you detain me , '' cried Adeline . 
`` You will drive me mad if you go , '' replied Mary , giving way to a violent hysterical scream , while with successful strength she parried all Adeline 's endeavours to break from her . 
Adeline , at length worked up to madness by the fatal control exercised over her , by one great effort threw the sobbing Mary from her , and , darting down stairs with the rapidity of phrensy , nearly knocked down Mr. Langley in her passage , who was coming to announce the restoration of the little boy . 
replied Adeline ; `` name it not . 
exclaimed Adeline wildly . 
`` I believe the poor soul is mad , '' said a third , making way for Adeline to pass . 
`` But , '' cried the first who spoke , catching hold of her , `` if so , there is method and meaning in her madness ; for she called Jaby here a poor babe , and we all know he is little better . '' 
By this time Adeline was in a state of complete phrensy , and was again darting down the street in spite of the gentleman 's efforts to hold her , when another gentleman , whom curiosity had induced to stop and listen to what passed , suddenly seized hold of her arm , and exclaimed , `` Good Heavens ! 
At the sound of her own name Adeline started : but in a moment her senses were quite lost again ; and the gentleman , who was no other than colonel Mordaunt , being fully aware of her situation , after reproving the young men for sporting with distress so apparent , called a coach which happened to be passing , and desired to know whither he should have the honour of conducting her . 
But she was too lost to be able to answer the question : he therefore , lifting her into the coach , desired the man to drive towards Dover-street ; and when there , he ordered him to drive to Margaret-street Oxford-street ; when , not being able to obtain one coherent word from Adeline , and nothing but expressions of agony , terror , and self-condemnation , he desired him to stop at such a house , and , conducting Adeline up stairs , desired the first assistance to be procured immediately . 
It was not to his own lodgings that colonel Mordaunt had conducted Adeline , but to the house of a convenient friend of his , who , though not generally known as such , and bearing a tolerably good character in the world , was very kind to the tender distresses of her friends , and had no objection to assist the meetings of two fond lovers . 
It is to be supposed , then , that she was surprised at seeing colonel Mordaunt with a companion , who was an object of pity and horror rather than of love : but she did not want humanity ; and when the colonel recommended Adeline to her tenderest care , she with great readiness ordered a bed to be prepared , and assisted in prevailing on Adeline to lie down on it . 
In a short time a physician and a surgeon arrived ; and Adeline , having been bled and made to swallow strong opiates , was undressed by her attentive landlady ; and though still in a state of unconsciousness , she fell into a sound sleep , which lasted till morning . 
The sight of Adeline , even frantic and wretched as she appeared , had revived the passion which he had conceived for her ; and if on her awaking the next morning she should appear perfectly rational , and her phrensy merely the result of some great fright which she had received , he resolved to renew his addresses , and take advantage of the opportunity now offered him , while she was as it were in his power . 
Soon after Mr. Langley had entered his own room , and while Mary and he were commenting on the frantic behaviour of Adeline , the tawny boy came back from his walk , and heard with marks of emotion , apparently beyond his age , -LRB- for though near twelve he did not look above eight years old , -RRB- of the sudden and frantic disappearance of Adeline . 
`` No , I do not ; -- her name was Mowbray , but is now Berrendale . '' 
And this further proof of Adeline 's merit did not tend to calm Langley 's remorse for having exposed her to the various distresses which she had undergone at his chambers . 
Adeline awoke early the next morning perfectly sane , though weakened by the exertions which she had experienced the night before , and saw with surprise and alarm that she was not in her own lodging . 
But she had scarcely convinced herself that she was awake , when Mrs. Selby , the mistress of the house , appeared at her bed-side , and , seeing what was passing in her mind by her countenance , explained to her as delicately as she could the situation in which she had been brought there . 
replied Adeline , dreadfully agitated , as the remembrance of what had passed by degrees burst upon her . 
`` Colonel Mordaunt of the guards , '' was the answer ; and Adeline was shocked to find that he was the person to whom she was under so essential and obligation . 
She then hastily arose , being eager to return home ; and in a short time she was ready to enter the drawing-room , and to express her thanks to colonel Mordaunt . 
But in vain did she insist on going home directly , to ease the fears of her family . 
The physician , who arrived at the moment , forbade her going out without having first taken both medicine and refreshment ; and by the time that , after the most earnest entreaties , she obtained leave to depart , she recollected that , as her clothes were the same , she might still impart disease to her child , and therefore must on no account think of returning to Editha . 
cried she , forgetting she was not alone . 
said the colonel , who had been purposely left alone with her . 
He uttered this with such volubility , that Adeline could not find an opportunity to interrupt him ; but when he concluded , she calmly replied , `` I am willing to believe , colonel Mordaunt , from a conversation which I once had with you , that you are not aware of the extent of the insult which you are now offering to me . 
Colonel Mordaunt started and turned pale at this intelligence ; and in a faltering voice replied , that he was indeed a stranger to her present situation ; -- for that , libertine as he confessed himself to be , he had never yet allowed himself to address the wife of another . 
This speech restored him immediately to the confidence of Adeline . 
`` Then I hope , '' cried she , holding out her hand to him , which in spite of his virtue he passionately kissed , `` that , as a friend , you will have the kindness to procure me a coach to take me to a lodging a few miles out of town , where I once was before ; and that you will be so good as to drive directly to my lodgings , and let my poor maid know what is become of me . 
I dread to think , '' added she bursting into tears , `` of the agony that my unaccountable absence must have occasioned her . '' 
The colonel , too seriously attached to Adeline to know yet what he wished , or what he hoped on this discovery of her situation , promised to obey her , provided she would allow him to call on her now and then ; and Adeline was too full of gratitude to him for the service which he had rendered her , to have resolution enough to deny his request . 
He then called a coach for himself , and for Adeline , as she insisted on his going immediately to her lodgings ; and also begged that he would tell the mulatto to send for advice , and prepare her little girl for inoculation directly . 
Adeline drove directly to her old lodgings in the country , where she was most gladly received ; and the colonel went to deliver his commission to the mulatto . 
He found her in strong hysterics ; the tawny boy crying over her , and the women of the house holding her down on the bed by force , while the little Editha had been conveyed to a neighbour 's house , that she might not hear the screams which had surprised and terrified her . 
When she was composed enough to listen to it , she did not long remain so ; for as soon as she heard that colonel Mordaunt had met Adeline in her phrensy , and conveyed her to a place of safety , she fell at his feet , embraced his knees , and , making the tawny boy kneel down by her , invoked the blessing of God on him so fervently and so eloquently , that colonel Mordaunt wept like a child , and , exclaiming , `` Upon my soul , my good woman , I can not bear this , '' was forced to run out of the house to recover his emotion . 
Here she began to weep bitterly ; while the colonel , more in love than ever with Adeline from these proofs of her goodness , resolved to lose no time in urging her to undergo herself the operation which she desired for Editha . 
Then , begging the mulatto to send for a surgeon directly , in spite of the tears of the tawny boy , who thought it cruel to run the risk of spoiling miss Editha 's pretty face , he took his leave , saying to himself , `` What a heart has this Adeline ! 
for no one can inspire it who is not able to feel it : and this creature is thrown away on a man undeserving her , it seems ! '' 
On this intelligence he continued to muse till he arrived at Adeline 's lodgings , to whom he communicated all that had passed ; and from whom he learned , with great anxiety , that it was but too true that she had never had the small-pox ; and that , therefore , she should probably show symptoms of the disease in a few days : consequently , as she considered it too late for her to be inoculated , she should do all that now remained to be done for her security , by low living and good air . 
That same evening colonel Mordaunt returned to Savanna , in hopes of learning from her some further particulars respecting Adeline 's husband ; as he felt that his conscience would not be much hurt by inducing Adeline to leave the protection of a man who was unworthy of possessing her . 
`` Had I followed , '' said he mentally , `` the dictates of my heart when I saw Adeline at Bath , I might now , perhaps , instead of being a forlorn unattached being , have been a happy husband and father ; and Adeline , instead of having been the mistress of one man , and the disowned wife of another , might have been happy and beloved , and as respectable in the eyes of the world as she is in those of her grateful mulatto . '' 
-- Adeline , he thought , was not a woman likely to be over-scrupulous in her ideas ; and might very naturally think herself at liberty to accept the protection of a lover , when , from no fault of hers , she had lost that of her husband . 
It is natural to suppose that , while elevated with these hopes , he did not fail to be very constant in his visits to Adeline ; and that at length , more led by passion than policy , he abruptly , at the end of ten days , informed Adeline that he knew her situation , and that he trusted that she would allow him to hope that in due time his love , which had been proof against time , absence , and disdain , would meet with reward ; and that , on his settling a handsome income on her and her child for their joint lives , she would allow him to endeavour to make her as happy as she , and she only , could make him . 
To this proposal , which was in form of a letter , colonel Mordaunt did not receive an immediate answer ; nor was it at first likely that he should ever receive an answer to it at all , as Adeline was at the moment of its arrival confined to her bed , according to her expectations , with the disease which she had been but too fearful of imbibing : while the half-distracted mulatto was forced to give up to others the care of the sickening Editha , to watch over the delirious and unconscious Adeline . 
But the tawny boy 's generous benefactress gave him leave to remain at Adeline 's lodgings , in order to calm his fears for Editha , and assist in amusing and keeping her quiet ; and if attention had any share in preserving the life and beauty of Editha , it was to the affectionate tawny boy that she owed them ; and he was soon rewarded for all his care and anxiety by seeing his little charge able to play about as usual . 
Colonel Mordaunt and the mulatto meanwhile did not obtain so speedy a termination to their anxieties ; Adeline 's recovery was for a long time a matter of doubt ; and her weakness so great after the crisis of the disorder was past , that none ventured to pronounce her , even then , out of danger . 
But at length she was in a great measure restored to health , and able to determine what line of conduct it was necessary for her to pursue . 
-- To return an answer to colonel Mordaunt 's proposals was certainly her first business ; but as she felt that the situation in which he had once known her made his offer less affronting than it would have been under other circumstances , she resolved to speak to him on the subject with gentleness , not severity ; especially as during her illness , to amuse the anxiety that had preyed upon him , he had taken every possible step to procure evidence of the marriage , and gave into Savanna 's hands , the first day that he was permitted to see her , an attested certificate of it . 
The first question which Adeline asked on her recovery was , Whether any letter had come by the general post during her illness ; and Savanna gave one to her immediately . 
After a few days ' incessant struggle to overcome the violence of her sorrow , Adeline recovered the shock , in appearance at least : yet to Savanna 's self-congratulations she could not help answering -LRB- laying her hand on her heart -RRB- , `` The blow is here , Savanna , and the wound incurable . '' 
But no obligation , however great , could shut the now vigilant eyes of Adeline to the impropriety of receiving further visits from him , or to the guilt of welcoming to her house a man who made open professions to her of illicit love . 
She however thought it her duty to see him once more , in order to try to reconcile him to the necessity of the rule of conduct which she was going to lay down for herself ; nor was she without hope that the yet recent traces of the disease , to which she had so nearly fallen a victim , would make her appearance so unpleasing to the eyes of her lover , that he would be very willing to absent himself from the house , for some time at least , and probably give up all thoughts of her . 
But she did neither herself nor colonel Mordaunt justice . 
-- She was formed to inspire a real and lasting passion -- a passion that no external change could destroy -- since it was founded on the unchanging qualities of the heart and mind : and colonel Mordaunt felt for her such an attachment in all its force . 
He had always admired the attractive person and winning graces of Adeline , and felt for her what he denominated love ; but that rational though enthusiastic preference , which is deserving of the name of true love , he never felt till he had an opportunity to appreciate justly the real character of Adeline : still there were times when he felt almost gratified to reflect that she could not legally be his ; for , whatever might have been the cause and excuse of her errors , she had erred , and the delicacy of his mind revolted at the idea of marrying the mistress of another . 
But when he saw and heard Adeline , this repugnance vanished ; and he knew that , could he at those moments lead her to the altar , he should not have hesitated to bind himself to her for ever by the sacred ties which the early errors of her judgement had made her even in his opinion almost unworthy to form . 
At length a day was fixed for his interview with Adeline , and with a beating heart he entered the apartment ; nor was his emotion diminished when he beheld not only the usual vestiges of her complaint , but symptoms of debility , and a death-like meagreness of aspect , which made him fear that though one malady was conquered , another , even more dangerous , remained . 
The idea overcame him ; and he was forced to turn to the window to hide his emotion : and his manner was so indicative of ardent yet respectful attachment , that Adeline began to feel in spite of herself that her projected task was difficult of execution . 
For some minutes neither of them spoke : Mordaunt held the hand which she gave him to his heart , kissed it as she withdrew it , and again turned away his head to conceal a starting tear ; while Adeline was not sorry to have a few moments in which to recover herself , before she addressed him on the subject at that time nearest to the heart of both . 
At length she summoned resolution enough to say : -- `` Much as I have been mortified and degraded , colonel Mordaunt , by the letter which I have received from you , still I rejoice that I did receive it : -- in the first place , I rejoice , because I look on all the sufferings and mortifications which I meet with as latent blessings , as expiations required of me in mercy by the Being whom I adore , for the sins of which I have been guilty ; and , in the second place , because it gives me an opportunity of proving , incontrovertibly , my full conviction of the fallacy of my past opinions , and that I became a wife , after my idle declamations against marriage , from change of principle , on assurance of error , and not from interest , or necessity . '' 
Here she paused , overcome with the effort which she had made ; and colonel Mordaunt would have interrupted her , but , earnestly conjuring him to give her a patient hearing , she proceeded thus : -- `` Had the change in my practice been the result of any thing but rational conviction , I should now , unfortunate as I have been in the choice of a husband , regret that ever I formed so foolish a tie , and perhaps be induced to enter into a less sacred connexion , from an idea that that state which forced me to drag out existence in hopeless misery was contrary to reason , justice , and the benefit of society ; and that , the sooner its ties were dissolved , the better it would be for individual happiness and for the world at large . '' 
`` Far from it , '' replied Adeline : `` and I bless God that it does not : for thence , and thence only , do I begin to be reconciled to myself . 
`` By no means , '' interrupted Adeline , understanding what he was going to say : `` to BEAR and FORBEAR I believe to be the grand secret of happiness , and that it ought to be the great study of life : therefore , whatever would enable married persons to separate on the slightest quarrel or disgust , would make it so much the less necessary for us to learn this important lesson ; a lesson so needful in order to perfect the human character , that I believe the difficulty of divorce to be one of the greatest blessings of society . '' 
`` Not my own experience , '' returned Adeline ; `` for the painful situations in which I have been placed , I might attribute , not to the fallacy of the system on which I have acted , but to those existing prejudices in society which I wish to see destroyed . '' 
But I shall not enter into a detail of all he urged in favour of his passion ; nor the calm , dignified , and feeling manner in which Adeline replied . 
Suffice that , at last , from a sort of intuitive knowledge of the human heart , as it were , which persons of quick talents and sensibilities possess , however defective their experience , Adeline resolved to try to sooth the self-love which she had wounded , knowing that self-love is scarcely to be distinguished in its effects from love itself ; and that the agony of disappointed passion is always greater when it is inflicted by the coldness or falsehood of the beloved object , than when it proceeds from parental prohibition , or the cruel separation enjoined by conscious poverty . 
She therefore told colonel Mordaunt that he was once very near being the first choice of her heart : when she first saw him , she said , his person , and manners , and attentions , had so strongly prepossessed her in his favour , that he himself , by ceasing to see and converse with her , could alone have saved her from the pain of a hopeless attachment . 
`` I would not probe where I did not intend to make a cure , '' replied Adeline . 
`` I mean to induce you , ere it be yet too late , to endeavour to form a virtuous attachment , and to unite yourself for life with some amiable young woman who will make you as happy as I would have endeavoured to make you , had it been my fortunate lot to be yours : for , believe me , colonel Mordaunt , '' and her voice faltered as she said it , `` had he , whom I still continue to love with unabated tenderness , though years have elapsed since he was taken from me , -- had he bequeathed me to you on his death-bed , the reluctance with which I went to the altar would have been more easily overcome . '' 
Saying this , she suddenly left the room , leaving colonel Mordaunt surprised , gratified , and his mind struggling between hopes and fears ; for Adeline was not conscious that she imparted hope as well as consolation by the method which she pursued ; and though she sent Savanna to-tell the colonel she could see him no more that evening , he departed in firm expectation that Adeline would not have resolution to forbid him to see her again . 
In this , however , he was mistaken : Adeline had learnt the best of all lessons , -- distrust of her own strength ; -- and she resolved to put it out of her power to receive visits which a regard to propriety forbade , and which might injure her reputation , if not her peace of mind . 
Therefore , as soon as colonel Mordaunt was gone , she summoned Savanna , and desired her to proceed to business . 
`` No , '' replied Adeline , `` we are going into the country : I am come to a determination to take no legal steps in this affair , but leave Mr. Berrendale to the reproaches of his own conscience . '' 
Apostchaise was at the door the next morning at six o'clock ; and as Adeline had not much luggage , having left the chief part of her furniture to be divided between the mistresses of her two lodgings , in return for their kind attention to her and her child , she took an affectionate leave of her landlady , and desired the post boy to drive a mile on the road before him ; and when he had done so , she ordered him to go on to Barnet ; while the disappointed mulatto thanked God that the tawny boy was gone to Scotland with his protectress , as it prevented her having the mortification of leaving him behind her , as well as the colonel . 
had I had such a lover , '' cried she , -LRB- her eyes filling with tears , -RRB- `` me never leave him , nor he me ! '' 
and for the first time she thought her angel-lady hard-hearted . 
For some miles they proceeded in silence , for Adeline was too much engrossed to speak ; and the little Editha , being fast asleep in the mulatto 's arms , did not draw her mother out of the reverie into which she had fallen . 
And on they went again : nor did they stop , except for refreshments , till they had travelled thirty miles when Adeline , worn out with fatigue , staid all night at the inn where the chaise stopped , and the next morning they resumed their journey , but not their silence . 
The mulatto could no longer restrain her curiosity ; and she begged to know whither they were going , and why they were to be buried in the country ? 
Adeline , sighing deeply , answered , that they were going to live in Cumberland ; and then sunk into silence again , as she could not give the mulatto her true reasons for the plan that she was pursuing without wounding her affectionate heart in a manner wholly incurable . 
The truth was , that Adeline supposed herself to be declining : she thought that she experienced those dreadful languors , those sensations of internal weakness , which , however veiled to the eye of the observer , speak in forcible language to the heart of the conscious sufferer . 
Indeed , Adeline had long struggled , but in vain , against feelings of a most overwhelming nature ; amongst which , remorse and horror , for having led by her example and precepts an innocent girl into a life of infamy , were the most painfully predominant : for , believing Mary Warner 's assertion when she saw her at Mr. Langley 's chambers , she looked upon that unhappy girl 's guilt as the consequence of her own ; and mourned , incessantly mourned , over the fatal errors of her early judgement , which had made her , though an idolater of virtue , a practical assistant to the cause of vice . 
When Adeline imagined the term of her existence to be drawing nigh , her mother , her obdurate but still dear mother , regained her wonted ascendancy over her affections ; and to her , the approach of death seemed fraught with satisfaction . 
For that parent , so long , so repeatedly deaf to her prayers , and to the detail of those sufferings which she had made one of the conditions of her forgiveness , had promised to see and to forgive her on her death-bed ; and her heart yearned , fondly yearned , for the moment when she should be pressed to the bosom of a relenting parent . 
To Cumberland , therefore , she was resolved to hasten , and into the very neighbourhood of Mrs. Mowbray ; while , as the chaise wheeled them along to the place of their destination , even the prattle of her child could not always withdraw her from the abstraction into which she was plunged , as the scenes of her early years thronged upon her memory , and with them the recollection of those proofs of a mother 's fondness , for a renewal of which , even in the society of Glenmurray , she had constantly and despondingly sighed . 
`` Yes , '' replied Adeline . 
`` Savanna , '' returned Adeline , `` I should die contented to purchase my mother 's blessing and forgiveness . '' 
Savanna , speechless with contending emotions , could not express by words the feeling of mixed sorrow and indignation which overwhelmed her ; but she replied by putting Editha in Adeline 's arms ; then articulating with effort , `` Look there ! '' 
she sobbed aloud . 
`` I understand you , '' said Adeline , kissing away the tears gathering in Editha 's eyes , at sight of Savanna 's distress : `` but perhaps I think my death would be of more service to my child than my life . '' 
observed Adeline mournfully . 
`` Me will live and die vid you , '' she replied , her tears redoubling , while Adeline again sunk into thoughtful silence . 
As soon as they reached Penrith , Adeline inquired for lodgings out of the town , on that side nearest to her mother 's abode ; and was so fortunate , as she esteemed herself , to procure two apartments at a small house within two miles of Mrs. Mowbray 's . 
exclaimed Adeline as she took possession of her lodging . 
`` Nay , I -- I feel so much better , that to-morrow I will -- I will take a walk , '' said Adeline hesitatingly . 
`` Oh , to-night I shall only walk to bed , '' replied Adeline smiling ; and with unusual cheerfulness she retired to rest . 
The next morning she arose early ; and being informed that a stile near a peasant 's cottage commanded a view of Mrs. Mowbray 's house , she hired a man and cart to convey her to the bottom of the hill , and with Editha by her side she set out to indulge her feelings by gazing on the house which contained her mother . 
When they alighted , Editha gaily endeavoured to climb the hill , and urged her mother to follow her ; but Adeline , rendered weak by illness and breathless by emotion , felt the ascent so difficult , that no motive less powerful than the one which actuated her could have enabled her to reach the summit . 
At length , however , she did reach it : -- and the lawn before Mrs. Mowbray 's white house , her hay-fields , and the running stream at the bottom of it , burst in all their beauty on her view . 
exclaimed Adeline ; `` and there was I born : and near here -- `` shall I die , she would have added , but her voice failed her . 
This artless remark awakened a thousand mixed and overpowering feelings in the bosom of Adeline ; and , after a pause of strong emotion , she exclaimed , catching the little prattler to her heart -- `` You shall live there , my child ! 
`` When I am in my grave , '' answered Adeline . 
replied the unconscious child , fondly caressing her : `` pray , mamma -- pray be there soon ! '' 
Adeline turned away , unable to answer her . 
replied Adeline ; as in one of the ladies she recognised Mrs. Mowbray , and stood gazing on her till her eyes ached again : but what she felt on seeing her she will herself describe in the succeeding pages : and I shall only add , that , as soon as Mrs. Mowbray returned into the house , Adeline , wrapped in a long and mournful reverie , returned , full of a new plan , to her lodgings . 
There is no love so disinterested as parental love ; and Adeline had all the keen sensibilities of a parent . 
To make , therefore , `` assurance doubly sure '' that Mrs. Mowbray should receive and should love her orphan when she was no more , she resolved to give up the gratification to which she had looked forward , the hope , before she died , of obtaining her forgiveness -- that she might not weaken , by directing any part of them to herself , those feelings of remorse , fruitless tenderness , and useless regret in her mother 's bosom , which she wished should be concentrated on her child `` No , '' said Adeline to herself , `` I am sure that she will not refuse to receive my orphan to her love and protection when I am no more , and am become alike insensible of reproaches and of blessings ; and I think that she will love my child the more tenderly , because to me she will be unable to express the compunction which , sooner or later , she will feel from the recollection of her conduct towards me : therefore , I will make no demands on her love for myself ; but , in a letter to be given her after my decease , bequeath my orphan to her care ; '' -- and with this determination she returned from her ride . 
said Savanna , running out to meet her . 
`` Oh , no ; she did not see me , nor shall I urge her to see me : my plans are altered , '' replied Adeline . 
`` No , '' resumed Adeline , sighing deeply , and preparing to write to Mrs. Mowbray . 
But it is necessary that we should for a short time go back to Berrendale , and relate that , while Adeline and Editha were confined with the small-pox , Mr. Drury received a summons from his employer in Jamaica to go over thither , to be intrusted with some particular business : in consequence of this he resolved to call again on Adeline , and inquire whether she still persisted in styling herself Mrs. Berrendale ; as he concluded that Berrendale would be very glad of all the information relative to her and her child which he could possibly procure , whether his curiosity on the subject proceeded from fear or love . 
The second floor in the house where Adeline lodged was then occupied by a young woman in indigent circumstances , who , as well as her child , had sickened with the distemper the very day that Editha was inoculated : and when Drury , just as he was setting off for Portsmouth , ran to gain the latest intelligence of the invalids , a char-woman , who attended to the door , not being acquainted with the name of the poor young woman and her little girl , concluding that Mr. Drury , by Mrs. Berrendale and miss who were ill with the small-pox , meant them , replied to his inquiries , -- `` Ah , poor things ! 
On which , not staying for any further intelligence , Drury set off for Portsmouth , and arrived at Jamaica just as Berrendale was going to remit to Adeline a draft for a hundred pounds . 
For Adeline , and the injury which he had done her , had been for some days constantly present to his thoughts . 
The constant recurrence of these dreams had depressed his spirits and excited his remorse so much , that he could calm his feelings in no other way than by writing a kind letter to Adeline , and enclosing her a draft on his banker . 
This letter was on the point of being sent when Drury arrived , and , with very little ceremony , informed him that Adeline was dead . 
Drury coolly replied , that she and her child both died of the small-pox . 
Berrendale , being then convinced that bigamy was not likely to be proved against him , soon forgot , in the joy which this thought occasioned him , remorse for his conduct to Adeline , and regret for her early fate : besides , he concluded that he saved 100l . 
by the means ; for he knew not that the delicate mind of Adeline would have scorned to owe pecuniary obligations to the husband who had basely and unwarrantably deserted her . 
This intelligence had a fatal effect on the health of Berrendale ; for though the violent temper and overbearing disposition of his second wife had often made him regret the gentle and compliant Adeline , and a separation from her , consequently , would be a blessing , still he feared to encounter the disgrace of a prosecution , and still more the anger of his West Indian wife ; who , it was not improbable , might even attack his life in the first moment of ungoverned passion . 
And to these fears he soon fell a sacrifice : for a frame debilitated by intemperance could not support the assaults made on it by the continued apprehensions which colonel Mordaunt 's friend had excited in him ; and he died in that gentleman 's presence , whom in his last moments he had summoned to his apartment to witness a will , by which he owned Adeline Mowbray to be his lawful wife , and left Editha , his acknowledged and only heir , a very considerable fortune . 
But this circumstance , an account of which , with the will , was transmitted to colonel Mordaunt , did not take place till long after Adeline took up her abode in Cumberland . 
Though Adeline had said that he must discontinue his visits , he resolved to disobey her ; and the next morning , as soon as he thought she had breakfasted , he repaired to her lodgings ; where he heard , with mixed sorrow and indignation , that she had set off in a post-chaise at six o'clock , and was gone no one knew whither . 
Various , indeed , and contradictory were his feelings : yet still affection was uppermost ; and he could not but respect in Adeline the conduct which drove him to despair . 
Nor was self-love backward to suggest to him , that had not Adeline felt his presence and attentions to be dangerous , she would not so suddenly have withdrawn from them ; and this idea was the only one on which he could at all bear to dwell : for , when he reflected that day after day might pass without his either seeing or hearing from her , existence seemed to become suddenly a burthen , and he wandered from place to place with joyless and unceasing restlessness . 
At one time he resolved to pursue her ; but the next , piqued at not having received from her even a note of farewell , he determined to endeavour to forget her : and this was certainly the wiser plan of the two : but the succeeding moment he determined to let a week pass , in hopes of receiving a letter from her , and , in case he did not , to set off in search of her , being assured of succeeding in his search , because the singularity of Savanna 's appearance , and the traces of the small-pox visible in the face of Adeline , made them liable to be observed , and easy for him to describe . 
However , Mrs. Wallington and miss Maynard , who had not yet forgiven the deep impression which Adeline 's graces had made on their brother , insisted on telling the story ; to which colonel Mordaunt listened with eager and anxious curiosity . 
But Adeline and her cause were in good hands : Emma Douglas stood forth as her champion . 
-- Well , but we parted good friends , '' added the kind-hearted Caledonian , dispersing a tear ; while Emma , in simple but impressive language , related all that passed at Perpignan between themselves , Adeline , and Glenmurray ; and concluded with saying , that , `` from the almost idolatrous respect with which Glenmurray spoke and apparently thought of Adeline , and from the account of her conduct and its motives , which he so fully detailed , she was convinced that , so far from being influenced by depravity in connecting herself with Glenmurray , Adeline was the victim of a romantic , absurd , and false conception of virtue ; and she should have thought it her duty to have endeavoured , assisted by her sister , to have prevailed on her to renounce her opinions , and , by becoming the wife of Glenmurray , to restore to the society of her own sex , a woman formed to be its ornament and its example . 
she added in a faltering voice , `` would that I knew her fate ! '' 
Colonel Mordaunt , affected and delighted , hung on Emma Douglas 's words with breathless attention , resolving when she had ended her narration to begin his , and clear Adeline from the calumnies of Mrs. Wallington and miss Maynard : but after articulating with some difficulty -- `` Ladies , -- I -- miss Douglass , -- I -- '' he found that his feelings would not allow him to proceed : therefore , suddenly raising Emma 's hand to his lips , he imprinted on it a kiss , at once fervent and respectful , and , making a hasty bow , ran out of the house . 
-- Then after a few more ohs , and other exclamations , he related to her the whole progress of his acquaintance with and attachment to Adeline , adding as he concluded , `` Now then judge what feelings you must have excited in my bosom : -- yes , miss Douglas , I reverenced you before for your own sake , I now adore you for that of my lost Adeline . '' 
`` Really , '' cried colonel Mordaunt , gazing very earnestly at her , `` I do not mean to flatter you , but there is something in your countenance that reminds me very strongly of Adeline . '' 
But all conjecture was soon lost in certainty : for Emma Douglas , with more than usual animation of voice and countenance , related what colonel Mordaunt had authorized her to relate ; and the envious sisters heard , with increased resentment , that Adeline , were she unmarried , would be the choice of the man whose affections they were eagerly endeavouring to captivate . 
`` You ca n't think , '' said colonel Mordaunt , when Emma had concluded , leaving him charmed with the manner in which she had told his story , and with the generous triumph which sparkled in her eyes at being able to exhibit Adeline 's character in so favourable a point of view , `` you ca n't think how much miss Douglas reminds me of Mrs. Berrendale ! '' 
For , always humble in her ideas of her own charms , Emma Douglas could not believe that Mordaunt would ever entertain any feeling for her at all resembling love , except when he fancied that she looked like Adeline . 
But however unlikely it seemed that Mordaunt should become attached to her , and however resolved she was to avoid his society , certain it is that he soon found he could be happy in the society of no other woman , since to no other could he talk on the subject nearest his heart ; and Emma , though blaming herself daily for her temerity , could not refuse to receive Mordaunt 's visits : and her patient attention to his conversation , of which Adeline was commonly the theme , seemed to have a salutary effect on his wounded feelings . 
Colonel Mordaunt declared that every day seemed to increase her resemblance to Adeline in expression and manner ; and in conduct his reason told him that she was her superior ; nor could he for a moment hesitate to prefer as a wife , Emma Douglas who had never erred , to Adeline who had . 
Besides , he was , on just grounds , more desirous of marrying a woman whom he `` admired , than one whom he forgave ; '' and therefore , while he addressed Emma , he no longer regretted Adeline . 
In short , he at length ceased to talk of Emma 's resemblance to Adeline , but seemed to admire her wholly for her own sake ; and having avowed his passion , and been assured of Emma 's in return , by major Douglas , he came back to England in the ensuing autumn , the happy husband of one of the best of women . 
We left Adeline preparing to address Mrs. Mowbray and recommend her child to her protection : -- but being deeply impressed with the importance of the task which she was about to undertake , she timidly put it off from day to day ; and having convinced herself that it was her duty to endeavour to excite her husband to repentance , and make him acknowledge Editha as his legitimate child , she determined to write to him before she addressed her mother , and also to bid a last farewell to colonel Mordaunt , whose respectful attachment had soothed some of the pangs which consciousness of her past follies had inflicted , and whose active friendship deserved her warmest acknowledgements . 
-- Little did she think the fatal effect which one instance of his friendly zeal in her cause had had on Berrendale ; unconscious was she that the husband , whose neglect she believed to be intentional , great as were his crimes against her , was not guilty of the additional crime of suffering her to pine in poverty without making a single inquiry concerning her , but was convinced that both she and her child were no longer in existence . 
In her letter to him , she conjured him by the love which he always bore Glenmurray , by the love he once bore her , and by the remorse which he would sooner or later feel for his conduct towards her and her child , to acknowledge Editha to be his lawful heir , but to suffer her to remain under that protection to which she meant to bequeath her ; and on these conditions she left him her blessing , and her pardon . 
The letter to colonel Mordaunt was long , and perhaps diffuse : but Adeline was jealous of his esteem , though regardless of his love ; and as he had known her while acting under the influence of a fatal error of opinion , she wished to show him that on conviction she had abandoned her former way of thinking , and was candid enough to own that she had been wrong . 
`` You , no doubt , '' she said , `` are well acquainted with the arguments urged by different writers in favour of marriage . 
She then went on to express the following sentiments . 
`` If then a strong temptation should assail my child , might she not yield to it from an idea that `` one false step may be retrieved , '' and cite her mother as an example of this truth ? 
So Adeline reasoned and felt in her moments of reflection : but the heart had sometimes dominion over her ; and as she gazed on Editha , and thought that Mrs. Mowbray might be induced to receive her again to her favour , she wished even on any terms to have her life prolonged . 
for not one of Adeline 's letters had ever reached Mrs. Mowbray ; and the mother and the daughter had both been the victims of female treachery and jealousy . 
Mrs. Mowbray , as soon as she had parted with Adeline for the last time , had dismissed all her old servants , the witnesses of her sorrows and disgrace , and retired to her estate in Cumberland , -- an estate where Adeline had first seen the light , and where Mrs. Mowbray had first experienced the transports of a mother . 
This spot was therefore ill calculated to banish Adeline from her mother 's thoughts , and to continue her exclusion from her affections . 
On the contrary , her image haunted Mrs. Mowbray : -- whithersoever she went , she still saw her in an attitude of supplication ; she still heard the plaintive accents of her voice ; -- and often did she exclaim , `` My child , my child ! 
This young woman , whose ruling passion was avarice , and whose greatest talent was cunning , resolved to spare no pains to keep the situation which she had gained , even to the exclusion of Adeline , should Mrs. Mowbray be weak enough to receive her again . 
She therefore intercepted all the letters which were in or like Adeline 's hand-writing ; and having learnt to imitate Mrs. Mowbray 's , she enclosed them in a blank cover to Adeline ; who , thinking the direction was written in her mother 's hand , desisted , as the artful girl expected she would do , from what appeared to her a hopeless application . 
And she exulted in her contrivance ; -- when Mrs. Mowbray , on seeing in a magazine that Glenmurray was dead , -LRB- full a year after his decease , -RRB- bursting into a passion of tears , protested that she would instantly invite Adeline to her house . 
`` Yes , '' cried she , `` I can do so without infringement of my oath . 
Thus did her ardent wish to be reunited to Adeline deceive her conscience ; for , by the phrase `` wretched in love , '' she meant , forsaken by the object of her attachment , -- and that Adeline had not been : therefore her oath remained in full force against her . 
But where could she seek Adeline ? 
-- Dr. Norberry could , perhaps , give her this information ; and to him she resolved to write -- though he had cast her from his acquaintance : `` but her pride , '' as she said , `` fell with her fortunes ; '' and she scrupled not to humble herself before the zealous friend of her daughter . 
But this letter would never have reached him , had not her treacherous relation been ill at the time when it was written . 
Dr. Norberry had recovered the illness of which Adeline supposed him to have died ; but as her letter to him , to which she received no answer , alluded to the money transaction between her and Mrs. Norberry ; and as she commented on the insulting expressions in Mrs Norberry 's note , that lady thought proper to suppress the second letter as well as the first ; and when the doctor , on his recovery , earnestly demanded to know whether any intelligence had been received of miss Mowbray , Mrs. Norberry , with pretended reluctance , told him that she had written to him in great distress , while he was delirious , to borrow money ; that she had sent her ten pounds , which Adeline had returned , reproaching her for her parsimony , and saying that she had found a friend who would not suffer her to want . 
answered the doctor -- who could not but believe this story for the sake of his own peace , as it was less destructive to his happiness to think Adeline in fault , than his wife or children guilty of profligate falsehood : he therefore , with a deep sigh , begged Adeline 's name might never be mentioned to him again ; and though he secretly wished to hear of her welfare , he no longer made her the subject of conversation . 
But Mrs. Mowbray 's letter recalled her powerfully both to his memory and affections , while , with many a deep-drawn sigh , he regretted that he had no possible means of discovering where she was ; -- and with a heavy heart he wrote the following letter , which miss Woodville , Mrs. Mowbray 's relation , having first contrived to open , and read it , ventured to give into her hands , as it contained no satisfactory information concerning Adeline . 
`` I look on the separation of my mother and me in this world to be eternal , '' said the poor dear lost Adeline to me , the last time we met . 
-- I do forget , I do forgive : some time or other , too , I will tell you so in person ; and were the lost Adeline to know that I did so , she would bless me for the act , as she did before for the intention . 
where she is , what she is , I know not , and have not any means of knowing . 
To say the truth , her conduct to me and mine has been devilish odd , not to say wrong . 
she is either dead or miserable , and I forgive her : -- so I do you , as I said before , and the Lord give you all the consolation which you so greatly need ! 
This letter made Mrs. Mowbray 's wounds bleed afresh , at the same time that it destroyed all her expectations of finding Adeline ; and the only hope that remained to cheer her was , that she might perhaps , if yet alive , write sooner or later , to implore forgiveness . 
But month after month elapsed , and no tidings of Adeline reached her despairing mother . 
She then put an advertisement in the paper , so worded that Adeline , had she seen it , must have known to whom it alluded ; but it never met her eyes , and Mrs. Mowbray gave herself up to almost absolute despair ; when accident introduced her to a new acquaintance , whose example taught her patience , and whose soothing benevolence bade her hope for happier days . 
`` My name is Mowbray , '' she replied , sighing deeply . 
`` Mowbray ! 
-- The lady of Rosevalley in Gloucestershire ; and the mother of Adeline Mowbray ? '' 
`` What of Adeline Mowbray ? 
tell me , -- Do you indeed know her ? 
-- can you tell me where to find her ? '' 
`` I will tell thee all that I know of her , '' replied Mrs. Pemberton in a faltering voice ; `` but thy emotion overpowers me . 
`` Well -- well -- I will be calm , '' said Mrs. Mowbray ; and Mrs. Pemberton began to relate the interview which she had with Adeline at Richmond . 
Mrs. Mowbray then re-seated herself ; and Mrs. Pemberton informed her of Adeline 's premature confinement at Richmond ; of her distress on Glenmurray 's death , and of her having witnessed it . 
Yet that was impossible ; for , when she heard of Adeline 's insanity , her emotions became so strong that Mrs. Pemberton , alarmed for her life , was obliged to ring for assistance . 
She then related the contents of Adeline 's first letter , informing her of her marriage : -- and Mrs. Mowbray , clasping her hands together , blessed God that Adeline was become a wife . 
On hearing this , Mrs. Mowbray became more composed , and diverted her sorrow by a thousand fond inquiries concerning Adeline , which none but a mother could make , and none but a mother listen to with patience . 
During this season of affliction , as we have before stated , she became a teacher in the quaker 's society : but at the time of her meeting Adeline at Richmond , she had been called from the duties of her public profession to watch over the declining health of her friend and consoler , and to accompany her to Lisbon . 
She remembered the satisfaction which used to beam from Adeline 's countenance when she returned from her visits to the sick and the afflicted ; and she resolved to try whether those habits of charitable exertion which could increase the happiness of the young and light-hearted Adeline , might not have power to alleviate the sorrows of her own drooping age , and broken joyless heart . 
-- She who , while the child of prosperity , was a romantic , indolent theorist , an inactive speculator , a proud contemner of the dictates of sober experience , and a neglecter of that practical benevolence which can in days produce more benefit to others than theories and theorists can accomplish in years -- this erring woman , awakened from her dreams and reveries , to habits of useful exertion , by the stimulating touch of affliction , was become the visitor of the sick , the consoler of the sorrowful , the parent of the fatherless , while virtuous industry looked up to her with hope ; and her name , like that of Adeline in happier days , was pronounced with prayers and blessings . 
she felt that blessing could reach her only in the shape of her lost child : and though she was conscious of being useful to others , though she had the satisfaction of knowing that she had but the day before been the means of preserving a valuable life , she met Mrs. Pemberton , when she arrived at the Lawn , with a countenance of fixed melancholy , and was at first disposed to expect but little success from the project of writing to Adeline 's former lodgings in order to inquire . 
But she at length succeeded in awakening Mrs. Mowbray 's hopes ; and in a letter written by Mrs. Pemberton to the mistress of the house whence Adeline formerly dated , she inclosed one to her daughter glowing with maternal tenderness , and calculated to speak peace to her sorrows . 
Thus was another scheme for restoring Adeline to her afflicted mother frustrated by the treachery of this interested woman ; who , while Mrs. Pemberton and Mrs. Mowbray looked anxiously forward to the receipt of an answer from London , triumphed with malignant pleasure in the success of her artifice . 
Being left therefore , by miss Woodville 's fears , alone with Mrs. Mowbray , she drew from her , at different times , ample details of Adeline 's childhood , and the method which Mrs. Mowbray had pursued in her education . 
Mrs. Mowbray was silent : she recollected that , while she was gratifying her own vanity in composing her system of education , Adeline was almost banished her presence ; and , but for the humble instruction of her grandmother , would , at the age of fifteen , have run a great risk of being both an ignorant and useless being . 
`` Forgive me , friend Mowbray , '' resumed Mrs. Pemberton , aware in some measure of what was passing in Mrs. Mowbray 's mind -- `` forgive me if I venture to observe , that till of late years a thick curtain of self-love seems to have been dropped between thy heart and maternal affection . 
`` But I did not suffer Adeline 's mind to lie fallow . 
-- I allowed her to read , and I directed her studies . '' 
and didst thou acquaint thyself with the deductions which her quick mind formed from them ? 
Prompt to feel , and hasty to decide , as Adeline was , how necessary was to her the warning voice of judgement and experience ! '' 
But Adeline and thou are both the pupils of affliction and experience ; and I trust that , all your errors repented of , you will meet once more to expiate your past follies by your future conduct . '' 
day after day elapsed , and no letter came ; but while Mrs. Mowbray was almost frantic with disappointment and anxiety , Mrs. Pemberton thought that she observed in miss Woodville 's countenance a look of triumphant malice , which ill accorded with the fluent expressions of sympathy and regret with which she gratified her unsuspicious relation , and she determined to watch her very narrowly ; for she thought it strange that Adeline , however she might respect her mother 's oath , should never , in the bitterness of her sorrows , have unburthened her heart by imparting them to her : one day , when , as usual , the post had been anxiously expected , and , as usual , had brought no letter from London concerning Adeline ; and while miss Woodville was talking on indifferent subject with ill suppressed gaiety , though Mrs. Mowbray , sunk into despondence , was lying on the sofa by her ; Mrs. Pemberton suddenly exclaimed -- `` There is only one right way of proceeding , friend Mowbray , -- thou and I must go to London , and make our inquiries in person , and then we shall have a great chance of succeeding . '' 
`` Yes -- I -- I see that thou art afraid lest Adeline should be restored to her paternal roof . '' 
`` Thy own looks -- but all this is very natural in thee : thou fearest that Adeline 's favour should annihilate thine . '' 
Art thou not Adeline 's friend ? '' 
`` But it is uncertain whether we can find Adeline -- still we shall be very diligent in our inquiries ; yet it is so strange that she should never have written to her mother , if alive , that perhaps -- '' `` Oh , I dare say she is dead , '' hastily interrupted miss Woodville . 
`` Has she been dead long , thinkest thou ? '' 
-- Hast thou any reason then for knowing that she was alive six months ago ? '' 
-- Art thou not conscious of having intercepted letters from thy cousin to her relenting parent ? '' 
In a few moments miss Woodville , conscious that her emotion had betrayed her , and suspecting that Mrs. Pemberton had by some means or other received hints of her treachery , confessed that she had intercepted and destroyed letters from Adeline to her mother ; and also owned , to the great joy of Mrs. Pemberton , that Adeline 's last letter , the letter in which she informed Mrs. Mowbray that all the conditions were then fulfilled , without which alone she had sworn never to forgive her , had arrived only two months before ; and that it was dated from such a street , and such a number , in London . '' 
-- I put this unhappy woman into a state of temptation , and she yielded to it : -- but I feel only too sensibly , that no one has been such an enemy to my poor Adeline as I have been ; nor , conscious of my own offences towards her , dare I resent those of another . '' 
-- `` I see that thou art now indeed a christian ; such are the breathings of a truly contrite spirit ; and , verily , she who can so easily forgive the crimes of others may hope to have her own forgiven . '' 
`` I will see her directly , '' replied Mrs. Mowbray , without a moment 's hesitation ; and hastened to miss Woodville 's apartment , where she found the medical attendant whom Mrs. Pemberton had sent for just arrived . 
Mrs. Mowbray , affected beyond measure at the pathetic appeals for pardon addressed to her continually by the unconscious sufferer , took her station at the bed side ; and , hanging over her pillow , watched for the slightest gleam of returning reason , in order to speak the pardon so earnestly implored : and while thus piously engaged , the chaise that was to convey her and her friend to London , and perhaps to Adeline , drove up to the gate . 
-- So saying she set off on her journey , and arrived in London only four days after Adeline had arrived in Cumberland . 
Mrs. Pemberton drove immediately to Adeline 's lodgings , but received the same answer as colonel Mordaunt had received ; namely , that she was gone no one knew whither . 
Still she did not despair of finding her : she , like the colonel , thought that a mulatto , a lady just recovered from the small-pox , and a child , were likely to be easily traced ; and having written to Mrs. Mowbray , owning her disappointment , but bidding her not despair , she set off on her journey back , and had succeeded in tracing Adeline as far as an inn on the high North road , -- when an event took place which made her further inquiries needless . 
Adeline , after several repeated trials , succeeded in writing the following letter to her mother : `` Dearest of Mothers , `` When this letter reaches you , I shall be no more ; and however I may hitherto have offended you , I shall then be able to offend you no longer ; and that child , whom you bound yourself by oath never to see or forgive but on the most cruel of conditions while living , dead you may perhaps deign to receive to your pardon and your love . 
On the very evening in which Adeline had written this address to her mother , Mrs. Mowbray had received Mrs. Pemberton 's letter ; and as miss Woodville had been interred that morning , she felt herself at liberty to join Mrs. Pemberton in her search after Adeline . 
Adeline , while trying to finish her letter to her mother , had scarcely traced a few ilegible lines , when she fell back insensible on her pillow ; and at the moment of Mrs. Mowbray 's entering the cottage , Savanna , who had uttered the shriek which had excited her curiosity , had convinced herself that she was gone for ever . 
and instantly seizing the cordial which she had brought with her , assisted by the woman , she endeavoured to force it down the throat of Adeline . 
Their endeavours were for some time vain : at length , however , she exhibited signs of life , and in a few minutes more she opened her sunk eye , and gazed unconsciously around her . 
`` Adeline ! 
That voice , those words which she had so long wished to hear , though hopeless of ever hearing them again , seemed to recall the fast fading recollection of Adeline : she raised her head from Savanna 's bosom , and , looking earnestly at Mrs. Mowbray , faintly smiled , and endeavoured to throw herself into her arms , -- but fell back again exhausted on the pillow . 
`` Will you , will you -- , '' said Adeline , vainly trying to speak her wishes , as Savanna put the sleeping girl in Mrs. Mowbray 's arms : but she easily divined them ; and , clasping her to her heart , wept over her convulsively -- `` She shall be dear to me as my own soul ! '' 
`` Then I die contented , '' replied Adeline . 
exclaimed Mrs. Mowbray hastily : `` no , you must not , shall not die ; you must live to see me atone for -- '' `` It is in vain , '' said Adeline faintly . 
Oh , Adeline ! 
cried Adeline . 
Adeline observed the action , and seeing by it that Savanna 's heart relented towards her mother , said , `` I owe that faithful creature more than I can express ; but to your care I bequeath her . '' 
cried Adeline , putting her hand to Mrs. Mowbray 's lips . 
Adeline faintly smiled , but repeated that every hope of that kind was over , but that her utmost wish was gratified in seeing her mother , and receiving her full forgiveness . 
`` Mother , dearest mother , '' replied Adeline , `` I see you , I am assured of your love again , and I have not a want beside . 
In a moment , the cottager who was present , and returning with usury to Mrs. Mowbray 's daughter the anxious interest which she had taken in his , proposed various means of transporting Adeline line to the Lawn ; a difficult and a hazardous undertaking : but the poor invalid was willing to risk the danger and the fatigue ; and her mother could not but indulge her . 
At length the cottager , as it was for the general benefactress , having with care procured even more assistance than was necessary , Adeline was conveyed on a sort of a litter , along the valley , and found herself once more in the house of her mother ; while Savanna , sharing in the joy which Adeline 's countenance expressed , threw herself on Mrs. Mowbray 's neck , and exclaimed , `` Now I forgive you ! '' 
`` Mother , dear mother , '' cried Adeline , after having for some minutes vainly endeavoured to speak -- `` I am so happy ! 
-- Nay , I even think I can live now , '' added she with a faint smile . 
Had Adeline risen from her bed in complete health and vigour , she would scarcely have excited more joy in her mother , and in Savanna , than she did by this expression . 
-- And an express was sent off immediately to Dr. Norberry too , who was removed to Kendal , to be near his elder daughter , lately married in the neighbourhood . 
Mrs. Mowbray ran out to meet him ; but a welcome died on her tongue , and she could only speak by her tears . 
`` There , there , my good woman , do n't be foolish , '' replied he : `` it is cursed silly to blubber , you know : besides , it can do no good , '' -- giving her a kiss , while tears trickled down his rough cheek . 
-- `` You see , '' said he , `` by my dress , what has happened , '' gulping as he spoke . 
-- and -- and -- '' here he paused , and after an effort went on to say , that his wife in her last illness had owned that she had suppressed Adeline 's letters , and had declared the reason of it -- `` But , poor soul ! '' 
Soon after they were summoned to the sick room , and Dr. Norberry beheld with a degree of fearful emotion , which he vainly endeavoured to hide under a cloak of pleasantry , the dreadful ravages which sorrow and sickness had made in the face and form of Adeline . 
`` She is my nurse , my consoler , and my friend '' said Adeline . 
`` Me be name Savanna , '' replied the mulatto ; `` and me die and live wid my dear mistress , '' she added , bursting into tears . 
-- Adeline , I must order all these people out of the room , and have you to myself , or I can do nothing . '' 
He was obeyed ; and on inquiring into all Adeline 's symptoms , he found little to hope and every thing to fear -- `` But your mind is relieved , and you have youth on your side ; and who knows what good air , good food , and good nurses may do for you ! '' 
`` Not to mention a good physician , '' added Adeline , smiling , `` and a good friend in that physician . '' 
`` This it be to have money , '' said Savanna , as she saw the various things prepared and made to tempt Adeline 's weak appetite : -- `` poor Savanna mean as well -- her heart make all these , but her hand want power . '' 
During this state of alarming suspense Mrs. Pemberton was hourly expected , as she had written word that she had traced Adeline into Lancashire , and suspected that she was in her mother 's neighbourhood . 
-- It may be supposed that Mrs. Mowbray , Adeline , and Savanna , looked forward to her arrival with eager impatience ; but not so Dr. Norberry -- he said that no doubt she was a very good sort of woman , but that he did not like pretensions to righteousness over much , and had a particular aversion to a piece of formal drab-coloured morality . 
Adeline only laughed at these prejudices , without attempting to confute them ; for she knew that Mrs. Pemberton 's appearance and manners would soon annihilate them . 
At length she reached the Lawn ; and Savanna , who saw her alight , announced her arrival to her mistress , and was commissioned by her to introduce her immediately into the sick chamber . 
-- She did so ; but Mrs. Pemberton , almost overpowered with joy at the intelligence which awaited her , and ill fortified by Savanna 's violent and mixed emotions against the indulgence of her own , begged to compose herself a few moments before she met Adeline : but Savanna was not to be denied ; and seizing her hand she led her up to the bedside of the invalid . 
-- Adeline smiled affectionately when she saw her ; but Mrs. Pemberton started back , and , scarcely staying to take the hand which she offered her , rushed out of the room , to vent in solitude the burst of uncontrollable anguish which the sight of her altered countenance occasioned her . 
her eye had been but too well tutored to read the characters of death in the face , and it was some time before she recovered herself sufficiently to appear before the anxious watchers by the bed of Adeline with that composure which on principle she always endeavoured to display . 
-- At length , however , she re-entered the room , and , approaching the poor invalid , kissed in silence her wan yet flushed cheek . 
`` I am very different now , my kind friend , to what I was when you first saw me , '' said Adeline , faintly smiling . 
To the moment when they last met , Adeline had not resolution enough to revert , for then she was mourning by the dead body of Glenmurray . 
-- She spoke the word resigned with emphasis , and Adeline understood her . 
`` I am indeed resigned , '' replied Adeline in a low voice : `` nay , I feel that I am much favoured in being spared so long . 
replied Adeline . 
`` Yes : I have two pensioners at Richmond , -- a poor young woman , and her orphan boy , -- an illegitimate child , '' she added , deeply sighing , as she recollected what had interested her in their fate . 
`` It is enough -- I shall now die in peace , '' said Adeline ; and Mrs. Pemberton turned away to meet Mrs. Mowbray , who with Dr. Norberry at that moment entered the room . 
True , she was `` drab-coloured ; '' but where was the repulsive formality that he had expected ? 
thought he , `` this woman can feel like other women , and is as good a hand at a crying-bout as myself . '' 
But Mrs. Pemberton did not long give way to so violent an indulgence of her feelings ; and gently withdrawing herself from Mrs. Mowbray 's embrace , she turned to the window , while Mrs. Mowbray hastened to the bedside of Adeline . 
replied he , gulping . 
Mrs. Pemberton looked at him with an expression which he could neither mistake nor endure ; but muttering in a low tone , `` No ! 
he rushed out of the room . 
From that moment he never was easy but when he could converse with Mrs. Pemberton ; for he knew that she , and she only , sympathized in his feelings , as she only knew that Adeline was not likely to recover . 
The invalid herself observed his attention to her friend , nor could she forbear to rally him on the total disappearance of his prejudices against the fair quaker ; for , such was the influence of Mrs. Pemberton 's dignified yet winning manners , and such was the respect with which she inspired him , that , if he had his hat on , he always took it off when she entered the room , and never uttered any thing like an oath , without humbly begging her pardon ; and he told Adeline , that were all quakers like Mrs. Pemberton , he should be tempted to cry , `` Drab is your only wear . '' 
Another and another day elapsed , and Adeline still lived . 
-- On the evening of the third day , as she lay half-slumbering with her head on Savanna 's arm , and Mrs. Mowbray , lulling Editha to sleep on her lap , was watching beside her , glancing her eye alternately with satisfied and silent affection from the child to the mother , whom she thought in a fair way of recovery ; while Dr. Norberry , stifling an occasional sob , was contemplating the group , and Mrs. Pemberton , her hands clasped in each other , seemed lost in devout contemplation , Adeline awoke , and as she gazed on Editha , who was fondly held to Mrs. Mowbray 's bosom , a smile illumined her sunk countenance . 
Adeline tried to express the joy which flushed her cheek at these words , and lighted up her closing eyes : but she tried in vain . 
At length she grasped Mrs. Mowbray 's hand to her lips , and in imperfect accents exclaiming `` I thank thee , gracious Heaven ! '' 
she laid her head on Savanna 's bosom , and expired . 
