Roderick -- it was already the prophecy of the seers , who were numerous in Spain at this period -- was destined to be the last king of the Visigoths . 
But , as if it were not enough that these changes should be effected by the ordinary tendency of events , the men high in place and unapproachable in power , those who were most to be injured by such revolutions , madly contributed to their promotion ; and , wholly blind in the desperate wilfulness of his sin , Roderick himself , like another Nero , bore the torch which was to fire his kingdom and consume his power . 
He was not too proud to serve his monarch as a creature , when he found that the vanity of Roderick did not permit him to esteem a counsellor ; and , by a thousand successful but unbecoming acts , he found that favor in the bosom of his prince , which enabled him to mislead , and in the end to destroy him . 
In his secret chamber the archbishop now meditated other plans , not merely for confirming his empire over the mind of Roderick , but for misleading him to his ruin . 
It was his aim to make his master as unpopular with the priesthood and nobility as Roderick had made himself with his people . 
He had already done much toward these objects . 
He had secretly persuaded the king , not by any direct charge , but by dishonest and adroit insinuations , to distrust and consequently to offend many of his best nobles , whose absence from court , and retirement to their several castles , had been the necessary result of these operations . 
Their removal from his own path was not less an object with Oppas than the misunderstanding which it was his aim to occasion between them and their sovereign . 
But he had not been able utterly to banish from the court the good and the sensible . 
To affect the priesthood was a leading object with the archbishop ; and , unfortunately for Roderick , the indifference of the king , openly expressed , upon all matters of religion , contributed in no small degree to facilitate the labors of the conspirator . 
Roderick , at a very early period , had thrown aside the mask which he had worn upon coming to the throne . 
He had then deemed it advisable to conciliate the nobles and the priesthood , and he had greatly succeeded with both of these powerful castes . 
He had raised the standard of rebellion against his predecessor , Witiza , in defence of the privileges of the former , which had been assailed in his father 's person ; and the priesthood was readily persuaded to regard their cause as identical with that of the nobles , when they remembered that Witiza had yielded but little deference to their power , which he sought to circumscribe , and , on one occasion , had even bid defiance to the head of the Roman church , threatening , in reply to rebukes from the papal chair , to reward his soldiers for the conquest of Rome itself , out of its own treasury . 
Having the power of these two classes , Roderick had succeeded in his rebellion . 
His usurpation was made legal ; and , for a brief season , all parties were apparently satisfied with his elevation . 
But , too soon for his own security , the reckless usurper threw aside the friendly disguises which had gained him so much . 
With the consciousness of power , came the confidence , too readily acquired by princes , in its stability ; and Roderick now gave himself but little care to conciliate any class or character . 
He yielded himself up to the vices of his predecessors and of the times . 
He adopted all the effeminacies of the voluptuous Greek and the debased Roman ; and the nobles who resisted his pretensions to absolute sway , and the priesthood which rebuked them , equally became the objects of his anger or his scorn . 
It was the policy of Oppas , connected as he was with the growing conspiracy against Roderick , to foment the discontents of these classes , while stimulating the king with every counsel to continue and increase their provocations . 
Wo and nameless miseries were denounced against that person who should endeavor to obtain possession of the secret which it concealed ; and such had been the fear inspired by the denunciation , that the monarchs of that country , reckless and vicious as in every other respect they may have been , had never once dared to penetrate the sanctuary ; but , in respect of the prediction , or perhaps with a due regard to the popular superstition , they had each of them , previous to the time of Roderick , affixed a heavy lock to its gate of entrance , that it might be the more readily recognized as a place sealed up against idle curiosity or an improper thirst to know that which the due progress of events would necessarily reveal . 
They had each of them , up to the time of Roderick , placed an additional lock upon its gate , the better to secure its secrets . 
But Oppas resolved that Roderick should not perform this duty . 
He resolved that this should be one of the appointed modes which the king should employ by which to offend the priesthood . 
This , however , was a secret resolve of his own mind , to be pursued with cautiousness . 
While he spoke with the venerable Romano , who , by the way , was the chief of the four keepers of the House of Hercules , and who was himself both straight-forward and simple in all his purposes , Oppas suffered nothing of his internal schemes to be seen or conjectured ; but he strove rather , though still with the view to the promotion of his own evil objects , to insist as strenuously as his brethren upon the performance of this duty by the king . 
`` It was bad enough , Romano , '' he proceeded , `` bad enough that king Roderick should permit the accursed Hebrew , because of his gold , to fester in the kingdom , a stink as he is in the nostrils of Heaven and Holy Church ; but what was to be looked for at the hands of one who has a countenance and a hand for the heretic Arian ? 
`` If it be so that Roderick shall still farther continue to defy Holy Church , and give so little heed to her messengers , I trow not what we shall do to avoid the duty which shall be assigned us . 
I would not that Roderick should continue blind ; I would that he should come to a knowledge of his danger ; and therefore , father bishop , I would have thee say -- '' `` I have said , Romano -- I do say , '' replied Oppas , interrupting him . 
The servant of God must speak , having more fire on his tongue than I , ere Roderick shall be brought to hear . '' 
`` Could I but be brought to speak with him in private , father bishop -- '' `` Would he suffer it ? '' 
Romano , I fear that Roderick is one upon whom a mark is set for destruction . 
Is it not so with Roderick , my brother ? 
Roderick is one of them , and he challenges danger as a thing that can touch him not ; and he has learned to look upon the messenger of death as a summoner for subjects only , and not for those who sway . 
This is the woful blindness of which St. Cyprian has told us : it is the blindness of Roderick , Romano . '' 
`` But wherefore , my lord bishop , should Roderick withhold himself from this duty , which the kings of the Goth have ever been prompt before to perform ? '' 
It is enough that none have ever done so before of the Gothic kings that Roderick will be bold to do it . 
It is a boast with him that he may dare when others would dread -- that he can do what other kings may not even think . '' 
`` But the people , lord bishop , the people of Spain -- who have been taught to hold the mystery of Hercules as their pledge of safety -- will they forget the prophecy , which says that Spain shall be lost by the king who shall unfold the mystery ; will they suffer Roderick , in his blind impiety , to do such rashness ? 
Roderick will have no let to his mood from any , and our good argument shall yield him none ; and if the will so prompt him , he will search deep into the sacred mystery , in despite of the prophecy which denounces wo to the monarch who shall fathom it . '' 
Let us hope that Roderick may not be thus wicked -- that he may do with thee and thy trust as the kings of Spain have ever done before , and place upon the mystery of Hercules the lock which thou shalt bear him . 
Roderick must do this wrong ere we so punish . 
Let us not idly prejudge him , with the blind wilfulness of children . 
True , he hath already done much , and left much undone , for which he merits sore punishment from the church ; and I fear me that , in his heart , he is an Arian -- though his lip , when he first came to the throne , had freely enough spoken otherwise . 
But I will not judge him , nor shouldst thou , my brother . 
He gave his superior only too much credit for his indulgence to a heretic , as Romano had already learned to consider Roderick , through the artful tutoring of Oppas ; and was only impatient to launch forth in anticipation the thunders of the church upon one whom he was now well-assured would soon render them necessary . 
His reply was marked by this spirit , and gave the archbishop only another opportunity the better to practice upon the fanatic . 
I said that it were better we should seem slow and lukewarm in the eyes of the rash and headstrong , than that we should go madly forward to do injustice in our judgment , though it be upon one like king Roderick , of whom there is but too much cause for believing that he looks kindly upon Arianism , even if he has not the accursed sin already in his bosom . '' 
`` He that is not with me is against me , and he who lifteth not spear and sword in my behalf doth arm the enemy to my undoing . 
The flatteries of the archbishop made him already thirst for that martyrdom which he now imagined was at hand , and a secret prayer revolved in his mind , having its origin in the selfish ambition which possessed him at that moment , that Roderick might refuse the application from the keepers of the House of Hercules , that he might be the first victim in a cause which must embalm his memory certainly in the odor if not in the actual enjoyment of sanctity . 
`` These lords , '' said he again , in a half-syllabled manner , `` these lords , whom Roderick hath banished , at an instance the source of which he suspects not , are in Andalusia . 
They are rush , and rage against him . 
This is for Roderick . 
He shall fire the pile : by his own hand , in his wild passion , shall he effect his own destruction . 
It can not fail : his lust is now a madness -- an incurable disease , and this can not but mislead him . '' 
When he had read , he folded it , penned the inscription in the same assumed writing , folded the silken cords about it , and placed it in his bosom , out of sight , saying as he did so : `` This will serve to-morrow ; and if Roderick flame with its tidings , as I am sure he must , then will our desires have play not less than his ! 
God keep him in the grace of Roderick , so that he may still continue to be the espatorio -- sword-bearer it should rather be , for truly doth he bear it rather as a burden than as a weapon -- rather as a thing that , as it carries honor , must be carried in its turn , than as a thing it were a grace to carry , and which should call for eminent grace in him who carries it . '' 
Thou canst place it in his hands after night , to-morrow , having well chosen a disguise for thy concealment . '' 
Roderick shall break the seal , rather than close it . 
I will move his vanity to the measure ; for well I know that it must work wo to the monarch who shall do so . 
Letus now penetrate the royal palace of Toledo , at present in the occupation of the usurper Roderick , and that incomparable woman , Egilona , his wife ; a woman superior to her time , in sense and in virtue -- but one whose charms , though great enough to win her the homage of a Moorish not less than a Gothic monarch , were yet not equal to the task of securing the affections of one so capricious and reckless as king Roderick . 
The palace of Roderick -- king of the Romans , as the late Gothic sovereigns were pleased to style themselves -- had become the dwelling-place of Roman ostentation and Asiatic luxury . 
King Roderick sat upon his blazing throne , having on his head the horned crown of Gothic royalty , and covered with robes richly embroidered from the neck to the heels , the folds of which swept the floor in a long train behind him . 
He was a monarch of a noble and imposing presence , with a face full of authority , an eye haughty and commanding , and a lip that curled with an imperious and stern expression . 
In the midst of a court where all was vicious , and where sensual indulgence had a full guaranty in the universal practices of all , not the slightest suspicion had ever assailed her purity ; and though Roderick had ceased to love her with that regard which so much beauty might well have awakened in any but a blunted sense , he at least never ceased to respect her in consideration of her many virtues and her gentle bearing . 
The espatorios on the present occasion were Edeco and Favila -- the former , a favorite of the monarch who contributed greatly to his debasing passions by ministering , as his creature , to those sensual indulgences to which , in his hour of prosperity , Roderick had unhappily given himself up . 
Edeco was a servile minister , a fop , a thing of feather and pretence , who spoke after a manner of his own , and whose ambition was to emulate the effeminacies not less than the extravagances of the other sex . 
There were many ladies and nobles in attendance , all richly attired ; for Roderick was a monarch to whom the glitter of jewels and the glow of silks and costly embroidery were grateful beyond all reasonable measure . 
But though late in attendance upon the court , Oppas had been already long since busy with his ministry ; and ere the king had made his appearance that morning before his attendants , the wily conspirator had taken care , though keeping himself free from any apparent connection with the proceeding , to prepare the mind of Roderick against the anticipated application of Romano . 
The archbishop crossed himself devoutly , as he concluded ; but the king burst into a loud laugh , and as he was about to speak , seemingly with scorn of what he had heard , Egilona , the queen , turned to him , and her hand was laid gently upon his arm , and her eye looked up in supplication to his face , while she spoke in a gentle and sweet voice -- ``` God 's Honor , ' oh Roderick ! 
Speak not in wrath , speak not in scornfulness of what thou hearest , oh Roderick ! 
`` Then hear me , Roderick ! '' 
`` Alas , Roderick , would that I could make thee to heed the real thunder when thou but hearest it ! '' 
responded Bovis , turning away his face from the monarch in mortification , as he saw that his exhortations must be fruitless , and that Roderick was predetermined in his purpose . 
It hath doors and windows within , all well secured , yet there is without but one single gate of solid brass , most cunning of design , having upon it a thousand clasps at the least ; whereto each monarch of Spain , before thyself , oh Roderick ! 
was the sudden and resolute reply of Roderick . 
In his united hands he bore a huge , heavy lock of brass ; and with a fearless and unblenching manner , resolute and unabashed , he at once approached the throne , and stopped not till he had passed through the double ranks of courtiers , who made way on each side , and stood immediately in the presence of Roderick . 
He was closely followed by his brethren ; but the king did not suffer them to advance so far , ere he spoke , and arrested their approach . 
He met the fierce glance of Roderick with a glance of defiance , and as full of resolution , if not so fierce , as that of the monarch . 
demanded Roderick . 
king Roderick ; and , serving Him , I can not be a traitor to any of the mortal kings of earth . '' 
The brow of king Roderick darkened , and he replied , briefly : `` Ay , if thou servest him rightly ; mark you that . '' 
The response of Romano was instantaneous : `` He is thy judge , and mine , king Roderick ; let Him decide for us both ; to Him I leave it for judgment , as must thou also . '' 
The fierce eye of Roderick looked into one not less fierce , when he sought to daunt by his gaze the enthusiastic Romano . 
There was a dignity mingled with the fire of his eye which Roderick could not quell , and the influence of which he did not entirely escape . 
Romano replied instantly , advancing still nigher to the king as he did so , with his hand extended until the huge lock which he carried waved directly in the face of the monarch : `` And if thou didst this wrong , king Roderick , '' were the solemn and stern words of the venerable man , `` and if the righteous and all-judging Heaven , for its own high and hidden purposes , looked down and suffered it , God 's will be done -- not mine ; not even thine , oh Roderick ! 
`` I pray thee , oh Roderick ! 
that thou wilt speak him kindly . '' 
Roderick frowned only , as he heard these words , but did not answer the speaker . 
His eye glared only upon Romano , whose dignified manner had the effect of rebuking the violence of the king , while his language was too little objectionable to yield the latter any occasion to speak the anger which he felt . 
`` Wilt thou not hear the venerable Romano , king Roderick ? '' 
`` He will doubtlessly unfold to thee all that thou wouldst know , touching the holy house , much better than any here . '' 
`` Ay , let him speak his story , '' said Roderick , `` but reserve his sermons . 
said Roderick , scornfully . 
The king half arose from his seat in anger , but the queen Egilona laid her hand upon his arm , and he maintained his temper , while Romano , without seeming to note his emotion , thus proceeded : `` This sacred trust comes down to us , oh king ! 
demanded the king `` I do not , Roderick . '' 
`` Around it , then , he heaved this dwelling , which is loftier far , oh Roderick ! 
The sneer of Roderick was followed by his own and the unreserved laughter of his courtiers ; but Romano continued his description of his trust , without seeming to regard them : `` Four lions , oh king ! '' 
`` ' T is a silly tale , '' said Roderick ; `` hast thou no better matter for my ear , old man ? '' 
Were it so with us , oh Roderick ! 
exclaimed Roderick , with a fierce scowl and furious gesture ; `` wilt thou not be warned , sir priest , of thy folly ere it be too late ? 
exclaimed Roderick . 
Roderick bade him proceed , and he continued his description : `` And yet , oh king ! 
said Roderick , contemptuously , `` that mighty Hercules ! '' 
exclaimed Roderick , as the aged Romano concluded ; `` that shall be read , if there be truth in what thou sayest , old man ! 
king Roderick , '' replied the lord Oppas , in a well-affected horror . 
To this speech , seemingly injudicious , but really designed as it was , Roderick at once replied , with the fiercest emphasis : `` Why , who are you , my lord bishop , that will not have it so -- that would bind me with the will of my subject , and impose upon me a fetter which a king only knows how to break ? 
`` Yet , oh Roderick ! 
I -- Roderick , king of the Romans -- I dare ! 
`` And yet , king Roderick , '' he began , `` it is my thought '' -- The impatient and irritable despot at once interrupted him : `` Thy thought is insolent , my lord bishop ! '' 
`` Yet I pray thee hear him , Roderick , '' said Egilona , appealingly . 
`` Thy error is always too great an impatience , Roderick ; I pray thee to curb it . 
Hearken to the venerable father -- hear the good bishop -- hear him , I pray thee , Roderick , for my sake hear him . '' 
`` And wherefore hear him ? '' 
exclaimed Roderick . 
`` I know what he would say , and am resolved against it . 
Nothing daunted by the threatening action of the king , and unrestrained by the appeals of those around him , he continued to struggle and approach , speaking all the while in denunciation of Roderick 's design : `` Strike , if thou wilt ! '' 
he cried to the king ; `` strike , if thou wilt ! 
I do not shrink from thy blow , king Roderick , and do not fear even death at thy hands . 
Yet hear me , Roderick ; I do denounce upon thee a dreadful doom , if with thy unlicensed hand , defying Heaven , thou dost usurp this holy secret ! '' 
cried Roderick , scornfully , and full of wrath , to the now furious Romano . 
cried Roderick , becoming hoarse with his own suppressed anger , at what he deemed the insolence of the priest . 
Again the lord Bovis spoke to the king , in low tones , and sought to dissuade him from his purpose : `` Heed not the old man 's anger , I pray thee , king Roderick , '' said the sagacious noble , `` and yet give heed to it , as it shows thee what may be the anger of others if thou dost usurp this secret . 
It hath always been held so , king Roderick , even by the most jealous of our sovereigns . 
It struck Roderick with considerable force , but he had not the courage to recede from his error . 
His reply was characteristic : `` There is much in what thou sayest , Bovis -- much more than in any of these dooms of Hercules . 
`` Pardon me , king Roderick ! 
To tell Roderick of laws , the archbishop well knew was only to stimulate him in his desire to abolish them ; and the king , as Oppas expected , repeated his resolve with accumulated obstinacy . 
The last words of Roderick were a command to his guards to remove the aged zealot . 
But with their utmost endeavors they could not silence his speech : `` Over me thou walk ` st ! '' 
`` Yea , Roderick , if thou art bent to move upon this bold sacrilege , thou shalt first trample this lowly body into dust . '' 
cried Roderick , leaping forward . 
The queen seized him by his robes , and implored him to forbear ; but he pushed her away , and hurried forward to the spot where the lord Bovis and others were endeavoring to silence the furious Romano . 
he cried aloud , and shook his massive lock at the approaching Roderick . 
-- I look for Him to blast thee , Roderick , ere thou canst rush upon me ! 
-- His thunder ! 
Romano 's hands were stretched to heaven as he uttered these words , and his whole air and manner were those of one who listened for the bellowing thunder which he invoked upon the sacrilegious king . 
But as Roderick drew nigh unharmed , the countenance of the venerable man lost its confidence , and looked the disappointment which he really felt . 
A moment after , he sank within the arms of his companions through sheer exhaustion . 
`` Thrust him forth , slaves ! '' 
cried Roderick , `` but harm him not . 
His gray hairs and his madness plead for him even against his tongue . '' 
Obedientto the commands of Roderick , the soldiers in attendance proceeded to thrust Romano forth from the presence ; but , though greatly enfeebled by exhaustion , this was not to be done without difficulty . 
Roderick scorned the priest 's feeble efforts too much to be greatly enraged with him , and he contented himself with saving to Romano , as he was hurried from his sight : `` Does thy God hear thee ? 
`` Wait but a while -- but a little while , proud Roderick ! 
Go , then , Roderick , to thy doom ! 
Raving thus , even to exhaustion , the venerable Romano fell upon his face , still struggling with those who held held him , and muttering still , though incoherently , the curses which he continued to invoke upon Roderick . 
cried Roderick , hoarsely ; `` away with him ! 
The very interposition of those about him , who were most worthy of his consideration , as it made him jealous of their adhesion , strengthened him in his perverse judgment ; and an adroit remark of the archbishop , who deplored , in the king 's hearing , but not in the hearing of Romano , the excess of zeal that had been shown by his holy brother , confirmed Roderick in the contempt which he had expressed for Romano 's ravings . 
The natives hung about the procession at a respectful distance ; and had Roderick deigned to study or to examine the faces of those who came near him , he would have seen much to induce a pause in his progress , if not a repentance of his headstrong resolution . 
Meanwhile , the king , doubly resolute in his purpose because of the strong opposition and entreaty he had met with , made his way toward the isolated pile which was distinguished as the possession of Hercules , and which , with other marvellous feats of that demigod in Spain , gave him a title to be recognized as the tutular divinity of the country . 
But the violent spirit of Roderick , as we have seen , brooked no such dictation . 
In vain did sundry of his nobles , while he continued his march toward the enchanted tower , urge upon him to forbear , and give up the hidden quest ; he heeded them not , but with a momently increasing train he at length reached the rocky dwelling which he had resolved to enter . 
Near him stands Roderick , in his royal robes . 
At his feet a priest kneels , endeavoring to dissuade him from his purpose . 
A Gothic noble , also , holds up his hand in warning to that mad temerity which seemed reckless of all consequences . 
The heart of Roderick was haughty and unyielding , like his countenance . 
The slaves proceeded with their labors , and at length , to the great delight of the usurper , the last lock was broken and the last rivet drawn which secured the massive gate against his progress . 
All shrunk back from the entrance but Roderick , who , noways alarmed , advanced resolutely and laid his hand upon the gate . 
`` It is not too late , oh Roderick ! 
Pause , oh Roderick ! 
`` I am -- but not satisfied , oh Roderick ! 
`` Be calm , oh Roderick ! 
For shame , Roderick ! 
exclaimed Roderick ; `` the king -- myself -- him that was Roderick ! 
Was not that Orelio he bestrode ? 
-- and he fled ! 
`` 'T was Orelio -- my own sable steed , Orelio ; but the flying caitiff who bestrode him -- tell me , Bovis , that it was not Roderick . 
Thou dost not think that he would fly thus from the accursed Moslem ! 
Thou wast not the flying slave , for thou wert beside me all the while , and didst pursue him with thy weapon '' -- `` Ay , and would have slain him , Bovis , but that he sunk from before me into the engulfing earth , '' exclaimed Roderick , fiercely . 
` Thy kingdom ' -- ' t was thus it said '' -- `` Heed it not , Roderick ! '' 
said his counsellor ; but the king continued : ``` Shall be taken from thee ! ' 
`` Nay , Roderick , I know not -- I gave it no heed , '' was the reply . 
I am once more Roderick . 
`` Didst thou behold his eye ? '' 
`` Looked he not like one who had been blasted ? '' 
`` And his hair ! '' 
said another ; `` how it rose and stiffened upon his head ; and the sweat poured from him like rain ! '' 
`` He hath it truly ! '' 
We know not what Roderick the Goth hath seen , or what he hath heard ; but of a surety he hath seen and heard matter of fear which is to come . 
`` I will not sleep to-night , '' said the fourth speaker , `` for of a truth great Hercules will avenge his wrong upon Roderick . 
My blood boils to think how he hath been scorned by Roderick , and thrust away at his bidding by his soldiers . 
Of a truth , had any one of the nobles who stood beside Roderick when he came from the holy house , but said to me , ` Brito , cast a stone at his head , ' I had done it . '' 
`` Thou wouldst have hurled a stone at the impious Roderick , had any one bade thee from among the nobles ? '' 
`` I would not have the favor of king Roderick , '' responded Brito , quickly and sullenly , `` since he hath banished my master . '' 
`` Thou shalt have the favor of a king , but not of Roderick , Brito . 
He hath chosen thee , with a thousand others , to minister to his revenge upon Roderick . 
That same night , sleeping in the arms of the pure and beautiful Egilona , Roderick started from his dream of fears , in the consciousness of a wild and sudden terror . 
he cried , in alarm , arousing his still slumbering queen . 
But Roderick was not so easily satisfied , though the words of the queen tended greatly to soothe his apprehensions . 
The scene in the cavern , of which the queen knew nothing , and the knowledge of which he had enjoined upon Bovis to withhold from all , was present in its fullest force to his mind ; and the dreadful cries which now began to assail his ears , as if they were the cries of demons dancing around the blazing ruins , helped to strengthen his original fears . 
He could bear it no longer , for he heard his name occasionally amidst the uproar , which by this time had awakened the household . 
wo , to Roderick , who hath possessed himself of the secret ! 
demanded Roderick . 
`` The secret of its passages to and fro , in and out , Roderick ; for , of a surety , these priests are now howling within . '' 
Even as he spoke the cries ceased , and all was silence . 
Itwere not just if we should say that these seeming marvels had no effect upon Roderick , when they affected the greater body of the people . 
It was his pride to conceal his sufferings and apprehensions . 
Whatever he believed or feared , was a secret between himself and the lord Bovis , who , whatever might have been his anxieties or his apprehensions , certainly entertained none of supernatural dangers . 
`` I fear not Hercules , '' he would say , `` but I misdoubt these priests , Roderick , whom thou art but too ready to offend . 
But Roderick was insensible to danger coming from men like himself . 
The moment he was relieved from his superstition , he was relieved from all other forms of fear . 
The argument of Bovis , which went to persuade Roderick that the marvels which he saw were of priestly contrivance , only aroused him to anger against the church . 
In due proportion to the feeling of scorn which he was ever disposed to entertain for his enemies , was his recklessness now of those earthly dangers which his faithful counsellor warned him against ; and it was to the lord Bovis a subject of regret that he had indicated the source of those wonders to the king , which had so annoyed him ; for he now saw that he had but let loose an angry enemy upon the priesthood , whose fury would be such as inevitably to blind him to those dangers upon which he was bent to run in aiming at their ruin . 
`` I will be sure , '' replied Roderick , `` and if what thou sayest be true , the saints shall not save them ! '' 
The lighted brand which it bore was thy heavenly gift of eloquence which is required to enkindle in the cause of God the true worshippers of the Cross in Spain ; and was not the tower which it destroyed a sign of the power of this usurper , Roderick , who had desecrated it , as he has desecrated all other holy things of this realm to his most unholy purposes . '' 
Ina few days Roderick had regained his usual elasticity ; and , as in all similar cases , the matter which had caused so much surprise and fear soon ceased to be remembered , or was only remembered to be laughed at . 
The total disregard which Roderick had shown for the accustomed privileges of the one , and the venerated superstitions of the other , sunk deep into their minds , and with the feeling of general insecurity which his recklessness had produced , necessarily came the desire to be free from his power . 
Roderick , in the meantime , having recovered from his alarm , as the tempest appeared to have passed unharmingly over his head , relapsed into his wonted indulgence of lust and license . 
Unhappily for himself and for his kingdom , the pure charms and gentle virtues of his incomparable queen , Egilona , failed to restrain him from the most unbecoming vices . 
Edeco , his creature , and the pander to his unholy passions , seldom left him , and his influence over the mind of Roderick , acquired through the love of pleasure which was the predominant trait with the monarch , was unapproachable by better and wiser counsellors . 
Even as Roderick was about to speed to some pleasures , or rather excesses , to which he had engaged himself for the day , this nobleman arrested his progress . 
`` Again , and yet again , oh Roderick ! 
And Roderick waved his hand as if to dismiss the unwelcome counsellor ; but the faithful follower was firm . 
`` ' T is ever thus , '' said Roderick , `` it is still the good of my kingdom , or my own good , and my good subject 's zeal . 
-- Bovis would have interrupted the current of his master 's fretful declamation ; but Roderick continued , without giving heed to the interruption . 
`` Thou art pleased to jibe , Roderick . 
Roderick seated himself as he yielded this permission , and Bovis -- who was a man of stern sense and direct purpose -- at once replied , addressing himself to the business on which he came : `` From Cordova we learn , oh king ! 
`` No , Roderick ; I have other matters of great regard for thy ears . '' 
But go on ; dispatch them quick , '' said the impatient monarch Bovis , without being moved by the sarcastic manner and words of Roderick , proceeded thus : `` Another comes , who reports that Pelayo , the late king 's younger son , toils busily in rebellion ; that his followers already begin to grow in the Asturian Passes , and that it is the thought of Edacer that he hath also dared to move within the circuit of Cordova , where his Jewish spy reports him to be found . '' 
cried Roderick , starting quickly from the seat , in which he rather reclined than sat , his whole countenance filled with sudden astonishment and alarm . 
Why tell me of Jew traitors and Gothic traitors , when thou hadst to tell me of my enemy -- Roderick 's enemy -- the enemy of the Goth -- the accursed Moslem ? 
demanded Roderick . 
`` There are enemies to Roderick in Toledo , more fearful than any that he hath in Africa . '' 
`` No , Roderick , keep him here as thy pander to pleasure , since thou must have such a needful officer . 
`` It shall be done , Roderick , '' said Bovis , preparing to go ; but it was now the disposition of the king to detain him . 
`` Why , so I would , Roderick , but that my nose objects . 
To slay him , I must be near him ; and after such contact I fear me that all the waters of the Tagus would fail to purify my garments . '' 
Behold this paper , Roderick ; read -- read for thyself . 
It is fairly written , with a fine reed , else would I not have looked upon it , for a bad character offends a nice sight ; and then what a pleasure thou hadst lost , Roderick ; what a pleasure of sounds and sights -- tink-a , tinka-tink-a , tee -- how sweet is the discourse ! 
Read it , Roderick , read it aloud : Tink-a-tinka , tinka , tee ! '' 
Roderick was more prudent in his amours than in his politics , though sufficiently reckless in both for his own not less than the ruin of his people . 
`` Doth Roderick delight in beauty ? '' 
Is her lip nothing to a taste so dull as Roderick 's ? 
Everything that could be said by the habitual lips of the licentious courtier , was said , in order to add fuel to the flame already burning in the bosom of his master ; and nothing now would satisfy Roderick but possesion of the unconscious but selected victim . 
To dishonor him was to create an enemy too powerful wantonly to provoke ; and , however reckless in most respects , Roderick paused ere he proceeded . 
It needed the artful suggestions of Edeco to spur him on . 
It needed that he should frame plots , for the consummation of his unholy purpose ; and from him came the base suggestion that the mind of the maiden herself might be moved to consent to her own shame , and thus the sin might be concealed , for a season at least , from the knowledge of the devoted father . 
With the provocation of his lusts , the reflective faculties of Roderick grew obtuse , and in due proportion as his baser desires predominated in his mind , did his more generous resolves sink down . 
It was one of his first objections to any attempt upon the maiden , that he had just dispatched a courier to count Julian , commanding him upon his duties to the frontier , in order to encounter with the invading Moors . 
He was bewildered by the suddenness of Roderick 's resolves , and fearful that some unseemly motive had induced it , as he ascribed its adoption to the counsels of Edeco . 
In a little while and Roderick was on his way to that secluded dwelling of count Julian , where -- ignorant as innocent -- the young and beautiful Cava had dwelt till now , happy in her own innocence , and in the passionate fondness , the almost jealous love , which her proud but noble father bestowed upon her . 
How can your people attack king Roderick ? 
He denied thee when thou wast a foe to king Roderick , but when he hears that you have left your people , and refused the crown , he will relent -- he will yield me to thy prayers ; for greatly , dear Egiza , does my father love me . '' 
In his corrupt mind he already revelled in the charms of La Cava , while her brave father was doing his battles and defending his country from the infidel invader , But while purposing this deadly wrong to a faithful subject , king Roderick was yet too well aware of the danger which he was about to incur to suffer his secret thoughts to be known by others . 
He too well knew the fierce and jealous nature of count Julian , who had come of the old Roman stock , and he was not ignorant of the great influence which he possessed over the veteran soldiers whom he had so often led to victory . 
The grooms came forward and took charge of the horses , while , following their master 's example , the nobles in the train of Roderick alighted also , and , at the bidding of count Julian , followed them into the castle . 
When they had drunk and been refreshed , the lady Cava descended from her chamber , and the eyes of Roderick for the first time rested upon the features of his chosen victim . 
He whispered to Edeco , when he beheld her : `` The billet speaks truth only ; there is nothing half so lovely in Toledo . '' 
The favorite ventured no reply , but his finger was lifted to his lips as if in caution , for he saw the eyes of count Julian were upon the king , and the pride and jealousy of the warrior were well known to him . 
But Roderick , though he strove , could scarcely keep his eyes from the maiden . 
His glance riveted hers , for it was the first time that she had beheld the king , and she looked upon him with a wonder and admiration , no less fearless than innocent . 
And truly might she regard him with admiration , for the person of Roderick was extremely noble . 
He was taller than the general race of men , yet so proportioned and symmetrical as to command no regard in this respect , save when standing by the side of others . 
His face was full and his eye commanding . 
His forehead was rather broad than lofty , and his look , though it was not wanting in intellectual expression , spoke more for the love of sway , the pride of pomp , and strong passions , than for the good mind which he possessed naturally , but which the sudden gain of unlooked for power had either entirely perverted or kept in subjection . 
These gave an air of animation to his manner and countenance , which could not fail to attract the eye , and win the admiration of those he looked upon kindly . 
After a brief space of time given to ordinary subjects , and when the beautiful Cava , at the command of her father , had retired from the presence to attend to such concerns of the household as were fitly entrusted to young maidens , in those days , the king addressed himself to count Julian upon the obvious subject of his visit . 
`` The faith which I have pledged to you , king Roderick , '' he continued , `` I have ever kept , as I now again pledge myself resolute to keep it . 
Thou hast well determined , oh Roderick ! 
Nor did the reckless spirit of Roderick , thoughtful only of personal indulgence , permit him to perceive the extent of the security which he had thus given to Julian , for the honor of his daughter . 
As his sword-bearer , this man slept that night in a chamber adjoining that of Roderick , and having access to it . 
When they were retired for the night , he gave a loose to those congratulations on the success of his project , which he knew would flatter the hopes of the king , whose foul appetites were all in activity . 
He exaggerated the charms of La Cava , dwelt on her gentleness , which he mistook for weakness , and with the peurile affectation of the fop discoursed of those topics which belong rather to the vicious profligate . 
It need not be said with what impatience Roderick longed for the departure of Julian , and the possession of his unconscious daughter But what could exceed the agony of soul of La Cava , when she was apprised by her father of his intention to remove her to the court . 
The courtiers and guards of Roderick were numerous , and they filled all the grounds of the castle . 
At an early hour , assisted by her father , she entered the covered carriage which had been prepared for her , and , escorted by Roderick , who closely attended upon the vehicle , she set forth , sick at heart , and paralyzed in hope , upon a journey , every step of which carried her further from her lover . 
It was this purpose of curiosity which Roderick had ascribed to them , but it may be that there was yet another motive , for , as the king approached , one of the venerable men emerged from among the crowd which gathered upon the hill-side to let the royal train pass , and threw himself directly in the way of their progress . 
His hands were uplifted as much in sign to his bretheren -- who looked on with mixed feelings of veneration and dismay -- as to the heaven to which they were raised ; and with his white beard streaming to the wind , his uncovered and shaven crown , his wild , fierce , and even haughty expression -- as , in his secret soul , he held himself the representative of God in his anger -- he was altogether the embodiment of a majesty before which even that of Roderick was compelled to quail . 
It may be that He means not the destruction of this mortal , and that I am but to warn and to terrify , that the repentance of Roderick may be free and flowing , and abundant like his sin . 
But the wrath of Roderick was scarcely restrainable when Edeco bore back the answer of Romano . 
cried Roderick , fiercely , while his teeth were gnashed with such vexation that his words were scarcely articulated . 
`` I speak for thy Master , Roderick . 
`` Take him hence ! '' 
That shall be as thy pride or thy humility wills it , oh Roderick ! 
cried Roderick . 
The fury of Roderick was indescribable , but Romano , utterly unaffected by it , proceeded to address him : `` I call upon thee , oh Roderick ! 
It is indeed more than probable that many among them saw it also , and even the eye of Roderick , like that of his followers , turned once involuntarily in the same direction . 
oh Roderick ! 
Roderick urged forward his steed , but the wild look , the free , enthusiastic action , and the supernatural elevation of Romano , seemed to have its effect upon the horse , not less than upon his rider . 
`` The writing , the writing is before thee , Roderick . 
Hear , and be wise in season , for , of a truth , even as He spake to Belshazzar through the prophet Daniel , doth the Lord of Hosts speak to thee through my lips . 
cried Roderick , hurling the shaft with a desperate arm . 
They gathered around him where he lay , and raised him up in their arms ; and , even while Roderick rode on with his train , his denunciations followed the monarch , and filled with gloom and apprehension such of his company as honored the existing forms of religion , and regarded with respect those superstitions of the time , which held a sway among the lberians of far more potency than any in possession of the throne . 
was still the burden of that voice : and even the fears of Roderick were aroused when he coupled what he had witnessed in the cave of Hercules , with the report of the Moorish invasion , and these words of Romano , which he continued to hear , even when out of sight of the enthusiast , and which predicted to him the loss of his kingdom . 
It needed not then that Roderick should desire free access to the daughter of Julian , in order to prompt him to urge the instant departure of that warrior for the protection of the coast . 
Even in his voluptuous fancies , there came to his mind dark pictures of his land 's distress , his own overthrow , and scenes of strife and bloodshed , which a prescient imagination might safely paint to a tyrant and usurper , and which the coming time was not slow to realize , in all their truth , and with increased and indescribable terrors . 
`` Now the garden which the king Roderick had made for the gentle queen Egilona , '' says a chronicler of the time , `` was of a curious and a foreign elegance . 
The trees , many of which were of distant lands , brought by the Roman conquerors into Iberia , were carefully trained into curious shapes , and made to yield the goodliest fruits ; and Roderick commanded that a hundred of his Moorish slaves should be busy at all hours , in the building of the garden , and of the palace which stood in the midst of it , so that , long ere the people had dreamed of the curious labor , which was carried on , within the massy walls which surrounded it , the nice perfection of king Roderick 's wish had been attained , and the palace and the gardens sprang into existence as it were by magic , in the brief space of a single night . 
It was to this garden of delight that the enamored , but as yet cautious Roderick , conveyed the lovely Cava . 
It was with an earnest solemnity of manner , that he yielded the sacred trust to king Roderick . 
It is my wealth and my joy , my treasure and my blessing , which I yield to your protection ; and should it please Heaven , Roderick , that I perish in the strife with the infidel , I pray you to remember that though you should lose a soldier and a faithful servant in me , it is not fitting that you should suffer my child to feel that she has lost a father . '' 
Roderick scrupled not to promise the noble soldier , and Julian departed , half relieved of the gloom which had weighed him down . 
It had been well for Roderick , and well for all , had he been less free to promise , or more scrupulous in performance Meanwhilethe hapless Egiza , poised on a ledge of rock which overhung the great pass leading to count Julian 's castle , watched with straining eyes the departure of the glittering cavalcade which bore away the dear object of his affections . 
More than once he caught sight of them , as rising to the peak of one eminence , he beheld the last glimpses of their train stretching away over another ; and when he came to the spot where the adventure of Roderick with Romano had taken place , he found the venerable old man surrounded by his brethren , and feebly striving , with their assistance , to ascend the little mountain on the brow of which stood the dwelling of their fraternity . 
He , too , began to fail from the fatigues of his journey , but the excitements of his soul sustained him ; and when , all in a breath , the monks told him of the impious violence of Roderick , Egiza warmed into new strength with their narrative , and lent the aid of his vigorous arm in sustaining the enfeebled Romano up the mountain . 
It may be supposed that the version which Egiza heard of the transaction , was wanting in most of the circumstances which might have qualified the degree of criminality in the violence of Roderick , and , perhaps , to many minds might have even justified it . 
I care not for this , but am I to believe that thou wilt give me up to the slaves of Roderick ? 
The stern soul of Oppas looked forward to the time when the crime , which was yet only in contemplation , but which Roderick meditated , and of which Cava was the victim , might find its sudden avenger in the arm of Egiza . 
This cold-blooded policy he encouraged , and many opportunities were secured to Egiza for frequenting the various places in the city which it was known that Roderick sought . 
Right gladly , however , even then , so much moved had he been by the charms of Cava , would Roderick have set aside the cares of empire , and given himself up to the lascivious objects in his view , had he not possessed a true friend and faithful counsellor in the severe lord Bovis . 
This trusty nobleman , when he saw the loveliness of count Julian 's daughter , as she appeared in the train of the queen , readily conceived the reason why Roderick had himself borne to Julian the foreign commission with which he had invested him ; though he did Julian the injustice to suspect that the brave count had connived with the king -- as was but too much the practice of the court -- at the expense of his daughter 's virtue . 
`` And if I have not , '' said Roderick , `` what then ? '' 
demanded Roderick . 
The dream of sloth and luxury was too soul-subduing in that region to keep it for any length of time aroused by any remote excitement or foreign danger ; and when the lord Bovis brought his intelligence and dwelt upon the necessity of sending forth a strong army on the instant to quell the insurrection , the dissolute Edeco , who really feared the incorruptible counsellor whom he could not emulate , slyly suggested to Roderick to send Bovis himself . 
At leaving his master he barely said : `` I will strive honestly to win the victory for thee , oh Roderick ! 
If thou wilt make Edeco curtail his silks in the matter of tails and tassels when I am gone , he will of a surety prove himself a better man , and to thee a better subject . '' 
Roderick laughed as the two thus jibed each other ; but when the lord Bovis had gone , he felt , in truth , that one was wanting in his court , whose absence -- as he was alike singular in honesty and wisdom -- was more immediately felt than that of any other . 
In a remote chamber of the palce , Roderick and Edeco conferred together upon the base purpose of the tyrant . 
`` I have , oh Roderick ! 
Were it not , oh Roderick ! 
`` Lead me to see her , Edeco , where I may enshroud myself safely and be awhile unseen , '' said Roderick , whose prurient imagination had been greatly awakened by what his favorite had said . 
`` Leave me now , '' said Roderick in a whisper . 
Edeco well understood the directions which Roderick did not conceive it necessary to conclude , and retired with an assurance of obedience , upon which the tyrant well knew , from past experience , that he might rely with safety . 
The face of Roderick looked the sentiment admirably which his lips uttered , and the lady Cava fairly pitied the poor king , in her simple ignorance , who thus be wailed the royalty that fettered him in his intercourse with men , and denied him those pleasures of which he envied the humblest of his subjects the possession . 
For you , and when with you , sweet Cava , Roderick would fain be no king , but Roderick only . '' 
The king commands , but Roderick solicits you . 
He can bestow upon you nothing of half so much value as that which he implores . '' 
And kneeling as he spoke , but still preserving his hold upon her arm , Roderick strove to persuade her to the embrace which , at the same moment he half enforced . 
She struggled in his grasp , and with a strength beyond his anticipation , arose to her feet , compelling him , by her successful movement , as he still maintained a hold upon her arm , to rise along with her . 
Her voice acquired strength and volume as his object became less equivocal . 
`` I pray you , king Roderick , that you wrong not my ears by such discourse . 
continued Roderick . 
I pray you , oh king Roderick ! 
`` If thou art noble , king Roderick , thou wilt release me . 
Even were it not that to regard thee with other than such feeling as becomes the subject , would be crime , I freely tell thee , king Roderick , that my love is given to another . 
`` His name ! '' 
responded Roderick -- `` some lowly youth I trow . 
With the speed of wings she darted through one of the little groves , into which Roderick pursued her . 
Her fleetness surprised him ; and he almost began to fear she would still escape him , when her feet stumbled , and she fell upon the ground a little before him . 
-- oh spare me , king Roderick ! 
Spare the poor maiden , oh Roderick ! 
Theexultation of the amorous tyrant , as he beheld the victim almost within his grasp , could not be suppressed , and broke forth into triumphant language , as he bent forward to embrace her shrinking form ; but ere his extended hands could grasp the innocent maiden , and even while her long and despairing shriek pierced the dull ears of the slumbering echoes of the garden , a strange figure bounded madly upon the scene , and , rushing with headlong fury from the cover of a neighboring grove , threw himself recklessly between Roderick and the screaming girl . 
The wild and repeated laugh of the intruder , was his only answer ; and the ears of Roderick were pierced with the shrill and mingling tenor of pain and pleasure , which the discordant sounds embodied . 
Even the unhappy Cava , ignorant , in the disguise which enwrapped him , that it was her lover who had come so timely to her relief , shrunk and crawled away along the bank where she had fallen , as the strange sounds smote so unusually upon her senses . 
And , as he spoke these words , with an utterance not less rapid than his action , he leaped upon Roderick , and dashed him to the earth . 
Meanwhile , Roderick struggled manfully to escape from the knee of his enemy , which was pressed down upon his breast ; but he struggled in vain . 
The arm of the desperate Egiza threw off the hold of Cava , and a moment after the uplifted dagger , which had been shaken in the face of Roderick during this brief conference , was driven forward , with an unrelenting force and a true aim , at the throat of the victim . 
But the fiend whom Roderick served had not yet deserted him ; and the unfortunate Egiza , in a single moment , found the position of himself and the tyrant reversed . 
Roderick rose silently from the earth , as soon as his enemy was taken from his bosom . 
A grim smile rested upon his lips , as he surveyed his assailant , whom yet he knew not . 
His eye glanced from the prisoner to the maiden , with looks of inquiry . 
at length he demanded of the former . 
he exclaimed to the guards . 
Cava sank at his feet . 
`` I kneel to thee , Roderick , '' she cried ; `` thou wouldst have wronged me ; I kneel to thee -- I forgive thee the wrong ; but let him go free -- let us both go free . '' 
`` His name ! 
-- his name ! '' 
With eyes upon the earth and folded hands , she replied mournfully to the demand of the tyrant : `` I may not tell thee , since he hath denied . '' 
`` He dies ! 
Away with him to prison ! '' 
cried Roderick . 
exclaimed the captive , who realized his situation perfectly , and well knew that Roderick was not to be moved by any such exhibition . 
The commands of Roderick were peremptory ; and , not often accustomed to dispute them , the mercenaries were sufficiently prompt in their execution . 
she said , imploringly , as she heard the commands of Roderick , and beheld the obedience expressed in the eyes and in the action of his creatures . 
A bitter smile passed over the face of Roderick , as he heard these words . 
They were so much poison to his soul . 
He waved his hand impatiently to the guards . 
The maiden would have still implored him , but Egiza interrupted her . 
said Roderick . 
he cried to the guards ; and they could easily see how greatly he was enraged , as his words were always few in his anger . 
Edeco laughed and simpered when the appeal was made to him , and his fore-finger was employed in re-twisting the floating locks on his temples , which in the confusion had become somewhat deranged . 
`` I thank you , '' he said , effeminately ; `` but I have never been so afflicted . 
The occult meaning of this speech was not perceptible to the unsophisticated sense of Cava ; but she understood enough from the licentious looks and puerile air of the fopling , to know that he was incapable of feeling her afflictions . 
She continued her appeal to Roderick and his guards alternately , and with all the earnestness of a devoted heart and a warmly excited spirit ; but the wrath of the tyrant was immovable , and as for the guards , a moment of calm reflection would have taught the unhappy maiden that they were incapable of one sentiment of generous pity while in the service of such a master . 
They obeyed the harsh and repeated commands of Roderick , and with ruthless violence tore her from the bosom to which she had not ceased to cling with a most convulsive effort ; and she only ceased to scream and struggle in the utter exhaustion of her nature . 
She fell back in a swoon within the arms of Edeco ; and Roderick , as he beheld her condition , made a sign to the servile creature , which he seemed readily to understand , and at once proceeded to obey . 
Roderick was the creature of his time . 
He represented the people over whom he ruled . 
He embodied their craft , their lust , their faithlessness , their cruelty . 
He was properly their sovereign , and he was rightly their scourge . 
He had his uses ; and we may not regret that in overthrowing a once mighty empire , the Moors overthrew the dominion of the rankest vice and the most reckless profligacy . 
Yet Roderick , like Nero , commenced his reign virtuously . 
He commenced as the avenger of his father 's wrongs , and the redresser of those under which his people suffered . 
But he soon found that , like Nero , he could not rule the people whom he did not represent . 
The venerable zealot lifted a dagger from his bosom as he spoke these words , and lord Oppas beheld in the expression of his eye that Romano needed but the promptings of a dream by night to enter the palace of king Roderick and do the work of assassination , if he might , as a good service rendered to the Most High . 
Knowest thou the name of him who hath sought to slay king Roderick ? '' 
Wherefore should this youth have come so timely to my aid when Roderick had stricken me down among the hills ? 
Wherefore should he have followed me into Toledo , witless of all things ? 
-- for of himself did he say that he he had no call within the city . 
Why should I give him a garment for his protection ? 
The tyrant hath escaped the fatal blow , and the minister of vengeance , whether through his own weakness , or that Heaven would spare its foe for a longer space that its accumulated judgments may be more heavy , is now the captive of king Roderick , reserved in his dungeons for a cruel sentence . '' 
He will , I think , work out the youth 's deliverance ; and the safety of Roderick now is but a blind on his eyes , which shall hood him yet for the executioner . 
It was only by a course of the most daring effrontery and admirable hypocrisy that Oppas had escaped proscription when Roderick came into power . 
A policy to which Roderick had now become somewhat indifferent , had prompted him to receive professions from and give credit for sincerity to all those who were allied to the nobility of the nation , or were connected with that more insolent aristocracy which assumed the powers and wore the garb of the established religion . 
Oppas was a superior politician to Roderick , and well understood the motives which operated upon the latter in his favor . 
You surely know of the attempt which has been made upon the life of king Roderick . '' 
I had no knowledge that the assassin was a monk -- still less did I deem it probable that our order , which has always been the readiest to maintain the power of king Roderick , should fall under suspicion of this nature . 
I have reason to know that Roderick looks suspiciously upon your fraternity , and I bid you be on your guard . 
Be cool , Oppas ; for the step of Roderick is hasty and his cheeks are flushed . 
The guards of Roderick now filled the chamber , and the despot only lingered at the threshold of the hall , uttering some hasty commands to one of his attendants . 
Could the prince keep his own secret , Oppas felt that he himself might escape ; for Egiza had been little known in Toledo , and seldom or never seen by those who held the confidential places around Roderick 's person . 
The dread of the lord Oppas was that the prince , hopeless of favor from Roderick , and desperate with hate , might declare himself in defiance ; and this done , he well knew that not even his sacred profession could save him from crimination with his nephew , particularly as , from the nature of the disguise worn by the latter , it must appear to the jealous tyrant that his attempt had been distinctly authorized by the priesthood , if not by himself . 
Even the guards of Roderick , with their tawdry jackets of purple silk , edged with gold fillagree , and their long spears , the iron heads of which were softened with a deep gilding , presented but indifferent substitutes for those rough warriors who had made the Romans pass under the yoke , and had carried their arms without stop or impediment from the Danube to the Atlantic ocean . 
The reputation of their forefathers was no longer a source of pride to those who affected superior refinements ; and one of the follies of Roderick , which provoked the sarcasm of the neighboring Moors , was in the assumption of the empty title , along with the idle glitter , of ` King of the Romans ; ' as if the spirit of the Csars dwelt in the frame of the licentious and arrogant Goth . 
The entrance of Roderick was the signal for obeisance and servility . 
He entered with a quick , sudden step , which , though hurried , did not prevent him from frequently pausing to dart hasty and inquiring looks into the faces of all around him . 
Once or twice he paused and seemed disposed to speak to one or more persons upon whom he looked , but as if quelling the desire , or unable through excess of passion to indulge it , he hurried on toward the throne until his eye caught that of the archbishop . 
He was wont to say that `` he could look down treason , and drive , with a glance of his own , that of his enemy to the ground . '' 
The eye of Oppas was as true to his purpose as was that of Roderick ; and , while all in the assembly looked alternately from the king to the archbishop , the former turned away with a ferocious scowl from gazing upon his victim , to dart angry glances upon the watchful assembly . 
At length , with a voice hoarse and loud , Roderick broke the silence by addressing his parasite Edeco , who stood beside him . 
With a servile gesture and a fawning smile the favorite approached and bent himself before his master . 
A brief pause ensued , when Roderick continued : `` Edeco ! 
He seemed vexed and bewildered ; then , as if resolved , he motioned Edeco back , and , again fixing his eye upon the archbishop , thus abruptly addressed him : `` So , ho ! 
A shout rent the air from the armed band around , as Roderick finished his furious tirade . 
He looked round approvingly upon them , and then his eye rested upon Oppas . 
To a temper like that of Roderick , such a deportment was irritating in the last degree ; nor did it lessen his anger to listen to the ready acknowledgment of his power which the archbishop had adroitly given in his reply . 
Of a truth , I know that such is the common speech of Toledo ; but I know nothing of the facts , '' was the response of the archbishop ; to which the answer of Roderick was instantaneous : `` Who said thou didst not know ? 
`` Let it be , oh Roderick ! 
`` Let the criminal be set before us ; if he be of the church , it may be that I shall know him ; yet , if he be , I trust to show that the crime he purposed was the meditation of his own heart , and came from no counsels of mine , or of the holy brotherhood . '' 
exclaimed Roderick , in scorn ; `` I know your holiness , my lord Oppas , and the holiness of the brotherhood ; and , as you know it also , it makes not in your favor , in my mind , that you should so reverently speak of it . 
This was the moment of trial for the archbishop , and he addressed all his energies to meet it -- for all eyes were upon him as he gazed . 
In boldness only -- in the utmost confidence -- could he hope to avoid suspicion . 
A moment 's pause , or hesitation -- an averted look , an agitating apprehension , he well knew -- as he was closely watched by the monarch and by many who would have been but too happy to avail themselves of his fall to omit noticing his confusion -- would confirm the suspicions of Roderick -- and his resolution was taken . 
cried the furious Roderick , half rising from his throne , and grasping a javelin ; `` Speak , slave ! 
A dozen violent hands were laid upon the criminal as he uttered himself thus ; and this violence on the part of his subjects disarmed that of the despot . 
He did not like to behold so much of ready impulse , even though in defence of his own authority , on the part of those whom he only required to obey ; and to the surprise and consternation of the forward courtiers , his rebuke was by no means gentle . 
`` I know nothing of the man , oh Roderick ! 
and wist not what to ask of him , '' said the archbishop . 
`` Then I will question him myself ! '' 
-- thou knowest , Roderick , that it did not . 
The fury of Roderick could scarcely be restrained , and he was about to rise , and would probably have hurled the javelin , which he now clutched in his convulsive fingers , at the bosom of Egiza , but for the archbishop , who beheld , as he thought , a fitting moment to interpose . 
He saw that the suspicions of the king -- if , indeed , he had ever , in reality , entertained them -- were , in great part , diverted from himself by the fearlessness of the prisoner ; and he now only feared that the provocation given by the prince , would be such as might prompt Roderick to inflict upon him a sudden death . 
This he aimed to avert by a new proposition . 
`` The prisoner , '' he said , `` oh king ! 
declares that he hath neither name or country ; but , as I must profess myself deeply interested in the habit which he wears , will it be permitted me , Roderick , to propose to him a few questions in private , in order that I may learn from him the motive for a course which is so very strange and criminal . '' 
cried Roderick , his jealousy of the priest reawakening . 
`` I ask it not , king Roderick ; in your sight let me speak to this man -- but let the guards be withdrawn . 
I care not what ye do with him : I am prepared for all that you may think fit to do with me : but , as a servant of the church , I would examine him who wears its garments , that I may the better learn the source of his iniquity , and move his conscience to atonement . 
The voice of Roderick arrested their conference , but not before the main points of it , as the archbishop had desired , were sufficiently discussed . 
Thou , Roderick , well knowest the cause for which I set upon thee ; and to silence the further wrong which thy speech would cast upon innocent men , I will declare all the circumstances which led to my assault . '' 
But Roderick had no wish that the truth should be spoken . 
It was to suppress the truth that he suggested to the prisoner what his confession should be , and offered him his life -- an offer which he meant not to comply with -- in compensation for the lie . 
Roderick scowled fearfully , as he heard the announcement . 
He knew the gentleness of Egilona , and readily divined that , having heard that he sat in judgment upon a criminal , she came -- as was frequently the case -- to intercede between the judge and his victim , and soften the severities of punishment . 
Roderick deigned not to rise at her approach , and she sat down on the seat below him , unnoticed . 
As if he had given no order for the torture of the prisoner , the king , assuming a milder tone and manner , addressed the lord Oppas : `` The prisoner , my lord bishop , is well tutored . 
Himself seemingly secure , he was collected enough to preserve his composure throughout the scene ; and with that temperate manner , which had , more than any thing beside , availed for his safety in the trial through which he had gone , he replied to the last remarks of Roderick , by seizing upon one part of his speech which furnished a natural opening for a plea in mitigation of the sentence . 
`` King Roderick little knows the servant of Christ , if he thinks that his prayer can be withheld from the criminal because he belongs not to the true church . 
Our mission is for such as he . 
To save the sinner -- to turn him from his path of darkness into one of light , is the office of the priest ; and these offices are more than ever needed for such as are double offenders -- offenders against heaven 's laws and the laws of man . 
`` But not in his sins , oh Roderick ! 
Roderick refused at first , chafed and chided next , and at length yielded . 
I need certain sums -- which I advanced to help Roderick to the throne -- to keep my estates from the Jews . 
The lords Aser and Gnotho -- who , in all Spain , toiled so faithfully and gave so freely to make Roderick what he is ? 
You shall not suffer loss of this money , my lord Oppas ; for now that your generosity hath enabled me to set at defiance the hungry vultures that hang over my estates , I shall be the better enabled to linger about the court , and secure the favorable moment for urging my plea to Roderick . '' 
The monarch who is a debtor , like Roderick , yields no such time to the creditor . 
Thou wilt but incur danger without profit , to press thy demand for money at any season upon him . '' 
am I to lose my substance , and behold him who possesses it bestowing it upon such worthless minions as Edeco ? '' 
`` And thou thinkest , my lord Oppas , that I shall never get this money from king Roderick ? '' 
`` If thou takest it not , it will only add to the already large sums which Roderick has taken from his people , and which he will never return . '' 
`` Roderick claims a greater reward for indulgencies than ever did the priesthood , '' responded the archbishop , with a smile . 
Release thyself from the Jews , and beware how thou speakest of thy claim to Roderick . '' 
Go to Roderick -- solicit that command -- but solicit it as an humble and true liege , who , if he has lent his sovereign the money which has made him such , is too wise to remember it . '' 
Roderick was not unwilling to receive Gerontius with favoring regard , when he asked for nothing from the royal coffers . 
His application for office was heard with favor , and the military government of his province bestowed upon him , with the right to fleece the people at pleasure , risking nothing more than the forfeiture of his treasure and his post , whenever the royal necessities should be such as to persuade the king that his coffers were sufficiently full to supply them . 
He took especial care in the narrative not to forget the demand which Roderick had made upon the treasury of the church . 
`` The gold and silver devoted to pious uses , '' said he , with a sigh , `` will he consume , my brother , in his sinful pleasures . 
The creatures of his lust will receive them ; and that which has been consecrated to God , and to the benefit to his ministers , will be assigned by the lawless tyrant to the reward of all manner of sinfulness and shame . '' 
`` Yet should he be stubborn , Romano -- should he plead service to Roderick , forgetful of the duty which he owes to his Maker , as it is but too much the practice with the guilty worlding to plead -- what then wilt thou do , my brother ? '' 
`` A little while , a little while , Roderick , and if thy nature be not changed , and if the stars fight not against me , thy sway shall be humbled . 
He hath but the soldiers who keep with him at Ceuta -- and these the conflict with Roderick shall greatly lessen . 
He had seen enough to know that his uncle was himself in danger , and under suspicion ; and as he knew not what course the judgment of Roderick had taken in reference to him , he with reason questioned his ability to effect his rescue , as Oppas had promised him in their brief interview . 
We shall not attempt to describe his feelings and his fears . 
The anxiety , the apprehension , the despair -- not for himself , nor for his own life , but for her honor and her safety , who was far more than life to him . 
He threw himself upon the floor of his narrow cell , when the keeper had retired , and wept scalding tears . 
I am in charge as the keeper of this prison , under king Roderick , and it is my duty to keep well and securely the captive whom he sends here in trust . 
The jarring and sliding of the bolts aroused him ; and , in the dim light , uncertain of the character of his visiter , and thinking only of enemies , he at once apprehended that the executioner sent by Roderick was at hand . 
He started to his feet , resolved to provoke , by a violent resistance , a more summary death than that of the axe ; but , in the next moment , he felt how idle was the resolve , since he was weaponless . 
The consciousness that he lay , like one bound hand and foot , having neither the power to fight nor to fly , at the mercy of his enemy , was humbling and maddening at the same moment . 
To be the officer of Roderick should not be a desire so great with thee as to be the servant of Jesus ; and in fulfilling thy trust to the one , and that one the wrong-doer , I warn thee that thou mayst do grievous offence to the other -- and He thy Saviour or thy Destroyer , as thou thyself only shall by thy acts determine . '' 
This holy man had no purpose in his effort to destroy Roderick , except to rescue the church , and to vindicate the superiority of God . 
I see it written in letters of fire upon the wall -- ` Roderick is devoted ! ' 
Roderick , thy kingdom is taken from thee ! 
Thou hearest not , Guisenard -- and Roderick heareth not ; but though ye hear not , ye shall both tremble . 
`` If I would have Roderick take my head , thou surely meanest , holy father . 
I would rather not provoke the wrath of Roderick , to my own undoing , since the vengeance of the Lord upon him , for the murder of myself and mine , would be of little account to me , after my own blood were shed , '' replied the jailer , with a more worldly , and perhaps more natural sort of calculation than comported with the superhuman imagination of Romano . 
Save this holy man , and , if thou heedst my words , the vengeance of Roderick can not touch thee . 
Thou shalt fly with him thou savest ! '' 
Roderick has no strength save from thee and such as thee . 
Thou makest his strength , my son , but thou canst not sustain it . 
Thou tellest me that his soldiers will hunt thee , among the savage hills and in the secret places ; and I tell thee -- for the spirit of prophecy is come upon me , even as it came upon Saul , so that men wondered -- I tell thee that the hour is at hand when Roderick shall have no soldiers to pursue either thee , or thine , or others . 
But a little while -- but a few more hours of mortal time -- a few more blessed and lifting thoughts , and this worm , whose very power is come from corruption , and who rules like death in the rottenness of humanity , shall perish , and be cast out from among men , and they who bow down to him now , in fear if not in honor , shall turn away from his loathsome carcase in a worse fear , and with a bitter sorrow for their past servitude . 
Fear not , I tell thee , the wrath and the soldiers of Roderick . 
Ere long his wrath shall turn into trembling , and his soldiers shall perish in battle or fly to the mountains , as I now counsel thee to fly Let me not pray to thee or counsel thee in vain . '' 
It is in such as this that Roderick rewards thee , as the minister of his tyranny and crime . 
The walls of the pagan Scipio are before thee ; the palace of the accursed Roderick on the left . 
A light thou seest is burning in his chamber ; but how soon , my brother , will all be dark in that palace ! 
Thehistorians have described Egilona , the queen of Roderick , in brilliant colors of romance . 
In her presence licentiousness was rebuked and quieted ; and Roderick himself , though not sufficiently refined in his nature , to accommodate himself to those restraints which he esteemed in her , yet felt their influences upon him sufficiently to forbear in many cases where his tumultuous passions and indomitable pride would otherwise have prompted him to brave the eye of the public , and prove his vices to be not less audacious than they were gross and selfish . 
Her piety was exemplary ; and , though she became the spoil of the Moorish conqueror , she yielded nothing of her faith ; but , with a womanly tenacity , when she had become the wife of the misbeliever , after the death of Roderick , she exacted such concessions from her Moorish lord to the Christian forms of worship , that she is supposed by many to have converted him . 
When , in the fierceness of his merriest mood -- having extorted from the archbishop a large amount of the money of the church -- Roderick informed her of what he had done , her reproaches were fearlessly uttered . 
That he was spared the torture , might even be ascribed to her presence at the trial ; for Roderick 's curiosity to ascertain the secret of the person who had braved him , was only restrained by the dread that she might hear that from the lips of the prisoner which , licentious as the monarch was , he would willingly have kept from her knowledge , though perhaps indifferent to its exposure to all beside . 
Feeling as she did toward the Christian faith and toward its professors , her sympathy took an active direction when she heard from Roderick of his morning spoliations . 
Tohis surprise the archbishop met king Roderick , just as he was about to enter the apartments of the queen . 
To his greater surprise yet , the king smiled upon him , and spoke in language not merely of condescension but of regard ; as if he had lost entirely from his memory the transactions of the morning . 
But such was not Roderick . 
He loved too much to hear the sounds of his own thunder . 
He was too fond of witnessing the exhibitions of his own power , and of having it beheld by others ; and in this , in great part , lay the secret of his downfall . 
His bland benignity of manner , on meeting with Oppas , was not the result of any thoughtful policy It was simply in his change of mood that he smiled . 
A moment 's reflection soon taught this to the archbishop , and he too smiled -- and , with more of policy than Roderick , he too appeared to discard from his thought the scene of the morning , which had been so full of peril to him . 
These , the tributes of Roderick , her relatives , her courtiers , and of her own purchase , she placed in the hands of the archbishop . 
Do I not know that my lord , king Roderick , whom I love not the less that I do not approve in this -- do I not know that he hath dispossessed thee of the monies and the jewels of the church -- that he hath taken from the altar of God the tribute put there by His worshippers , and hath thus despoiled the penitents , whose gifts they were , of the goodly shows of that penitence which was to work for their salvation . 
It was my thought that king Roderick esteemed thee too devout a worshipper to venture heedlessly upon letting thee know of this sacrilege . 
But , my father , a discontent soon arose within my bosom , and a strange apprehension , when I saw the eyes of my lord , king Roderick , gazing frequently and fondly upon her . 
Was it not the voice of Roderick that prompted thee to the error thou hast committed ? '' 
The errors of the king Roderick are but too commonly in the mouths of the whole court '' -- `` But not mine , my father . 
The Lord himself hath commanded , and the hate which in thy heart has taken the place of love for king Roderick '' -- `` Nay , father , that were a dreadful sin . 
The wrong is that of Roderick , not of the poor maiden whom he seeks . 
Wilt thou do another wrong , in the maintenance of his ? 
for thee , my daughter ; thy gifts to the church are unavailing -- thy prayers are unavailing ; for how canst thou look to the blessed Virgin to uphold thee , and intercede in thy behalf , when thou givest countenance to him who wrongs the Virgin ? 
Say , Egilona , when thou hast beheld thy lord , king Roderick , sinfully inclining to other women , and forgetting thee whom it is his solemn and sworn duty to remember , has not thy heart grown cold toward him '' -- `` Never , oh , never ! 
Though Roderick has of late forgotten me , and his neglect has given me many hours of weariness and weeping , yet have I loved him not less in my soul because of his desertion . 
Even when I beheld him heedless of my regards , and following after the beguiling charms and arts of other women -- nay , when I beheld him as I thought , seeking himself to beguile the unwary virgin -- yet did I rather envy those he sought , than anger with him for his wanderings . 
I have been ever fond of him , and true to him , my father , though , before thee and Heaven , I fear that he hath almost utterly forgotten me . 
It is true , I have regarded other noble gentlemen with esteem , and some with admiration , but not one with a feeling inconsistent with that which I owe to my lord , king Roderick It is true , I have beheld with sorrow and with deep affliction the neglect of my lord and his pursuit of other women , but even when I suffered and sorrowed the most , by reason of neglect or injustice , I never once held it fitting that I should anger with him , and never did it seem to me that I could love him less . 
A momentonly had elapsed after the departure of the archbishop , when Roderick came to the door of the queen 's chamber . 
His appearance was the signal for the renewal of those piercing shrieks with which the flying Cava had startled the palace , and which , in the presence of Egilona , had been changed into a long unbroken sobbing . 
`` It is my lord , king Roderick , whom thou beholdest . 
Dost thou not know him ? '' 
Hide me from him ! 
Let him not approach me ! '' 
Roderick was about to enter and to speak , when the wild paroxysm of Cava was renewed . 
Oh Roderick , Roderick ! 
But thy lord -- the king -- Roderick -- to whom , as to a father , did my own father give me in trust -- he '' -- She threw herself from the arms of Egilona , and her face lay prone upon the floor , which was wet with her gushing tears . 
Would that Roderick had put a keen knife into my heart , ere I had seen this day -- ere he had done me this wrong ! 
Once more she would have rushed into the presence of Egilona , whom she had just left , when , at the entrance of the queen 's apartment , she met the cruel Roderick himself . 
She ate , as if in compliance with a customary habit , and not with appetite ; and consciousness seemed almost to have left her , until late in the day ensuing her wrong , when Roderick presumed once more to appear before his victim . 
With his presence , life seemed once more to awaken . 
But you mistake me , king Roderick ; I do not fear your violence . 
In thy selfish and sinful lusts , king Roderick , thou hast blasted as sweet a hope as ever blossomed in poor maiden 's heart . 
Do so , king Roderick ; and if I can not bless thee , I will at least thank thee for the kind though destroying blow . '' 
`` Thou knowest me not , king Roderick . 
Thou canst not persuade me , king Roderick ; thou mayst trample me into submission by thy brutal strength ; thou mayst misuse this frail body by cruel and unmanly violence ; but it is my joy that thon canst not move my spirit ; thou canst not persuade my mind by any temptation which thou showest me . 
`` I would have vengeance , Roderick ! 
it will sweep and rend thee , king Roderick , as even now -- better heedful of his trust than thou of thine -- he rends the armies of the invading Moor , which beset thy coast . '' 
`` King Roderick , I trust thou wilt not keep me from my father , '' said the forlorn woman . 
`` If thou hast so resolved , king Roderick , I have not the strength to break my bonds , nor the wing to fly them ; but I may at least be permitted to hope that I bear my bondage in solitude . 
I tell thee , king Roderick , that she , the pale maiden , who was given to thee in trust -- having youth , and beauty , and a heart which was gushing with warm hope and the innocentest love , but whom in thy wanton cruelty thou hast dishonored and destroyed -- will escape thee by death . 
When Egilona visited her , which she did soon after the departure of Roderick , she found her as calm as the immoveable rock , and seemingly as insensible . 
The treasure which he had received from the queen , compensated in great part for that of which Roderick had despoiled him ; and the discovery he had made , while in attendance , and which abridged the interview , had its advantages , and furnished the argument which he had long desired by which to move count Julian to his purpose . 
The shrieks of Cava , her flight and dishevelled appearance , as , rushing from the brutal embrace of Roderick , she sought the presence and protection of the queen , revealed the catastrophe to the archbishop . 
In his private chamber , he prepared the billet which follows : `` It is in the mouths of many that Julian left his daughter , Cava , at the court of king Roderick , as he well knew the surpassing beauty of her charms , and as well the fierce passion of the king for such loveliness as hers . 
Yet , though this be the speech of many who have integrity and speak not often idly , there are some who remember of the noble blood and proper pride of the Julian family , who , though they can not gainsay the tidings of king Roderick 's favor and of the frailty of the lady Cava , are yet unwilling to yield faith so readily to that which reports the willing pliance of Julian to his own dishonor . 
If , in the search which he knew would be made after the fugitives , it should be found in his dwelling , the suspicious which must follow in the mind of Roderick would be difficult to parry , and , as he well knew the scorn if not hatred which the latter entertained towards the priest -- a scorn that only for bore injury as it too little esteemed the object , or was governed by a policy that feared to break utterly with a powerful priesthood -- he dreaded lest Roderick should identify him and his feelings with those of the deceased . 
He aimed at the employment and direction of Roderick 's power , not less than the aggrandisement and promotion of his own ; and this could only be secured by a policy as tortuous and refined as his desires seemed to be ultimate and difficult . 
This was resolved upon ; and the mind of Oppas , while he resolved , conceived a project in which boldness seemed the fruit of necessity . 
He gave orders to his servants to retire to their offices for the might , while he prepared to undress himself alone . 
This done , he arranged a habit which he wore only upon occasions of similar necessity , and which effectually disguised his person . 
Having put on this dress , he waited patiently the progress of the night . 
When the hour had become sufficiently late , he descended without a light to the apartment in which he had left , the body of the monk , and with ease raised it upon his shoulder . 
The miserable ascetic , to whose wretched system of life the irregularity of his mind and exhaustion of frame , might be ascribed equally , was a mere skeleton , and the powerful limbs of the archbishop , better calculated for the fatigues of the field than the humbling devotions of the cloister , bore the corpse as if it were unfelt . 
She now poured forth no clamorous shriek , such as had startled the echoes of the palace when first king Roderick had committed his brutal violence . 
`` If it be not wrong -- if it be not of hurt to king Roderick , Cava , I will surely do what thou askest of me , '' replied the queen . 
if it be not of hurt to him who hath been of such grievous hurt to me ! 
It is not of hurt to him -- it is nothing -- nothing in thy eyes or in his , but much in mine , which I now implore at thy hands . 
She could better conceive the policy of Roderick ; and she applied to the only person whom he had not thought it necessary to counsel in reference to his victim . 
In a word , my dear father , your daughter -- your blood -- this branch of the royal Gothic stock , who , like an innocent lamb , was recommended to the care of a ravenous wolf , has been violated by king Roderick . 
When , too , it was recollected how grossly he had been spurned by Roderick , there seemed a solemn meaning in the fact of his having come to the door of the despot in order to breathe his last ; and this thought took various shapes at the expense of Roderick , as the crowd momently increased to survey the body , until they looked up and around them in anticipation , while they spoke freely of the judgments which were to follow . 
In that glance he beheld Roderick himself rushing forth , mounted , at the head of the guards , part of which were also on horseback , and attended by Edeco and a few other noblemen . 
Indeed , it would be an idle attempt to depict the anger of one like Roderick , the spoiled child of fortune , and for so long a time accustomed to the most complete exercise of his own will , and the most brutal disregard to the rights , not less than to the will , of all others . 
His eyes glared like those of the wild-boar , whom the spear of the hunter hath pierced at the very entrance of the den where his young are hidden . 
His cheeks were the color of a bright and sudden flame -- his hair floated wildly above his head , and its raven hue still more contributed to give an air of fierce resolution to the almost scarlet terrors of his face . 
While Toro gazed , he instinctively pressed forward ; he saw that though there were numbers still between the tyrant and himself , on whom his vengeance must first be wreaked , he was yet conscious that these would offer but a brief obstruction to the passage of men on horseback . 
To throw a greater number between was an object therefore , but this was the object of hundreds , who were not , like himself , incumbered with a burden , the weight of which , if it did not enfeeble the mind , increased its anxiety , and oppressed it with apprehension that weighed it down , even more effectually than its physical pressure did his body . 
The density was greater than ever , and in the next moment , Roderick charged headlong , followed by his nobles and guards , upon the terrified and shrieking populace . 
Roderick , shouting the warcry of the Goth , plunged amid the thickest of the fray , cleaving down with his heavy-handled sword , all who stood before him . 
The rising hoofs of his steed hung over the heads of the brave Gallician and his trembling sister . 
The madness which filled the crowd wrought with redoubled violence upon him . 
With a mighty strength he raised her above the crowd , and throwing her forward , by this means increasing the space between the poor girl and the ferocious monarch , he stood alone , and more ready and resolute to confront his fury . 
His swarthy cheek grew purple with his rage -- his coal-black eye looked the anger which the words from his lips expressed and as Roderick beheld the look , the action , and the general manner of the Gallician , he could not but see in him one who would not scruple , if it needed , to strike even at the bosom of royalty itself . 
The thought enraged him , and rising on his stirrups , he waved his sword above the head of poor Toro , resolved that the descending blow should cleave him in twain . 
he exclaimed twice , as he struck . 
He struck heavily , but the blow descended upon a head which it could not harm -- the steel was buried in the skull of one whom he had slain before . 
The agile Gallician , as he saw the meditated stroke , swinging upon the bridle of the steed which he had grasped , threw himself completely under the animal 's neck , and out of the way of the impending blow . 
The hoarse voice of Roderick was heard at the place where his steed had plunged and fallen ; and then , once more , the faint accents came to his ears , seemingly from the same quarter : `` Come , Toro ! 
He rushed forward , though the enemy was there . 
He could see the form of Roderick rising -- he could hear his furious language -- and his uplifted sword was visible to his eyes ; yet he hurried toward him . 
The faint voice of his sister was again heard in a feeble scream , which at length died away in a murmur . 
He leaped on the dead horse -- her face was barely visible beneath it . 
Her eyes were closing , but a faint light was perceptible to his beneath the shutting lids . 
She seemed to recognize him , and the lids partly receded , while she looked upon him . 
He strove to drag the crushed and mangled remains of the girl from beneath the carcass , but he could not , and he trembled -- for the heart of man never believes in the utter insensibility of that which it loves -- lest he should hurt the innocent , of whom , in life , he had regarded the lightest curl of hair with a fondness which would have prompted him to risk life freely in its protection from the slightest harm or the most casual indignity . 
He shrunk back from the task -- the terrible truth came upon him in frenzy -- the sister of his boyhood -- the child whom he had loved almost alone of all the world -- the favorite of his aged mother , and his own , she was dead -- and such a death ! 
Crushed , trampled down , and mangled beneath furious and flying men , and the hoofs of the agonized war-horse , himself stricken with death , and by his arm . 
He sank down beside the body -- lifted the long and raven locks which were dabbled and clotted with her own blood , and gazed upon the terrible spectacle for an instant in speechless horror . 
Shrieking and shouting he started to his feet . 
Fury was in his soul , and he panted for revenge . 
The uplifted arm of Roderick was grappled by one from behind , and his balanced weapon shone idly in the air . 
Toro rushed upon him while in that situation . 
Already his knife glared in the eyes of the monarch -- another moment and it would have been buried in his heart ; but with the desperateness of his situation came increased powers of body and resolve of mind to the beleaguered king . 
Vindictive and maddened as he was , his strength was not equal to that of Roderick , and though the latter could neither overthrow him , nor wrest from him his knife , yet was it equally impracticable for him to inflict any injury with it upon his regal opponent . 
But though Toro could do no harm to his foe , his grasp kept him in a situation which momently exposed him to the assaults of others , and but for the desperate devotion of his guards , Roderick must then have perished . 
But they clung to him in his peril with a fidelity worthy a far nobler service . 
A shudder , but not of fear , convulsed the frame of Roderick , as he became conscious of this fact . 
I am Roderick the Goth . '' 
That moment saved Roderick . 
A new ally came to his aid . 
A voice from his new allies came to the ears of Roderick , and it no less astounded than cheered him . 
It was the voice of one upon whom of late he had not counted . 
Toro released his hold upon the king , in order to encounter the new comer ; but Roderick relaxed not his . 
He held the arm of the Gallician , while the huge mace of the archbishop descended thrice upon his head . 
Quick to see the opportunity , prompt to secure it , the energies of Pelayo would have annihilated Roderick by a concentrated movement of his entire masses upon the conspicuous tyrant long before any succour could have reached him . 
Though brave enough , with his foe immediately before him , he lacked that sleepless energy of character which would have prompted him to go in search of his foe , and enable him to seize upon all events calculated to bring about the issue which he desired . 
He did not think , as he beheld the rush and consternation of the guards , that their panic declared the situation of their master , or if he did , he did not further deliberate upon the application of this panic to the noble purposes of his people 's liberty , for which he had set forth with Pelayo , and for the security of which the latter was still nobly striving . 
The clamor which had aroused Roderick , and challenged his presence in the fearful melee which we have witnessed had drawn the queen and her handmaids to the massy towers which looked upon the area , where , watching and trembling , they saw a part of that commotion on the termination of which depended their own fates . 
The defeat of Roderick would have been a signal for their own destruction , since the infuriated populace , it was but reasonable to believe , would have ravaged the palace , where they well knew there was so much treasure to reward plunder , and so much that was tempting to the lustful and licentious . 
The fierce Roderick had not yet glutted his vengeance , nor appeased his anger . 
The mere dispersion of the fugitives was not enough for a mood so sanguinary as that which marked his character ; and long after opposition had ceased that day , did his keen sword drink of the blood of those who were neither bold enough to fight nor swift enough to fly . 
was the question with Egiza -- not for Roderick ? 
and if he fought against him , was he not a conquerer ? 
He rode as such , in full armor , unrestrained , and a goodly troop , wearing his household badge , were following at his heels . 
The joyous thought came to his mind that Roderick was no more -- that Oppas had headed the successful insurrection , and that the path of safety and happiness , henceforward , lay open to himself and Cava . 
The dream was dissipated in a moment after , when Roderick , unhurt , and with weapon bare , came bounding furiously forward to the side of the archbishop . 
He extended his bloody hand as he spoke , and the wily archbishop grasped it with an air of mingled gladness and humility , as he replied : `` Nor need you to have said thus much , oh Roderick ! 
In nowise discomposed , the latter casually responded : `` Not so , oh Roderick ! 
I would I knew the fellow , that I might pay him the value of a life '' `` Let the sum be small -- a leovogild , or so , '' was the half-scornful , half-playful reply of Roderick . 
`` For , '' he continued , `` hadst thou counted it at more thyself , thou surely hadst striven for it better , I saw not thy strokes -- I heard not even thy shouts , which should have cheered our men . 
`` And wouldst thou have had me , oh Roderick ! 
But I did cry aloud , oh Roderick -- I had need to do so , for the knaves pressed me sorely , and never did I behold men hang back more lazily than ours . 
`` By the ghost of Csar , king Roderick ! '' 
cried the courtier , with a greater degree of earnestness than was his wont , `` but thou dost me wrong . 
The popinjay stroked complacently the inverted pyramid of bristles that depended from his chin ; and smiling good humoredly , but contemptuously , the king turned from his favorite to the archbishop . 
With laughter on his lips Roderick passed by , unconscious of , and indifferent to , the miseries which he had brought upon the land ; but the wretched and desolate woman cursed him not the less , as she saw that he heard her not . 
Her appeal was to Heaven , and through Heaven 's judgment only could she hope to have her imprecation descend upon the head of him who had despoiled her of her children . 
She was the mother of the fearless Toro , and the gentle girl , his sister , for whose safety he had striven so unsuccessfully , and for whom , indeed , he had perished . 
Had it not been necessary for her extrication , he had not remained in the crowd . 
She had unwisely followed him , and the anguish which he suffered , even ere she had fallen a victim in the strife , and the apprehensions which he felt on her account , were more painful to his heart , than any blow which he suffered in his person . 
When the cavalcade of Roderick had gone by , and it was safe for him to emerge from the buttress , in the rear of which he stood , he hurried with a painful sort of curiosity to the back part of the recess , where the group found shelter , anxious to learn the particulars of their history , the catastrophe of which , so far , was amply delivered in the two silent forms now lying beside their lonely mother . 
The man who had found a similar cover with himself , on the approach of Roderick 's party , behind another buttress of the walls , as if moved by a like curiosity , followed his steps -- and they both stood , but without speech , in the presence of the woman . 
She raised his head as she spoke , and let it fall suddenly upon her lap . 
Go to Roderick your master , and may ye perish like him ! 
Ye are the base slaves of the Goth -- that serve his sway , and do his bidding ; and I curse ye -- with a worse curse than I have for him ! 
Had ye been men , ye would have fought like Toro ; and then he had lived , and Toly had lived , and I had been happy with my children ; but now I have none . 
The voice of Roderick reached his ears , and with a vindictive fury he felt for the dagger which he had placed within his girdle . 
He was unarmed , but desperation filled his soul , and he shouted his defiance aloud . 
His shouts aroused a soldier who guarded a corner of the walls , and who instantly made toward him . 
His approach produced no pause in the progress of Egiza , as it occasioned no apprehension in his mind . 
He dashed forward unhesitatingly , still bearing his insensible burden . 
cried the approaching soldier , presenting his spear as he did so . 
exclaimed the soldier involuntarily , but presenting his spear , more in apprehension than resolve . 
Egiza dashed it aside , and darted upon him , grappling at his throat with the one free arm . 
The soldier shrank back , but still presenting his spear , it took effect with the next effort which Egiza made -- not upon his person , but that of her whom he bore . 
The spear-head was driven through her breast , and he let her sink to the ground with a feeling of horror , as if a new crime had been committed . 
Roderick , too , appeared upon the wall , followed by the archbishop Oppas , a moment after , and their eyes were intently fixed upon the yet bubbling spot upon the waters , where the fugitive with his unconscious prize had descended . 
was the cry of Roderick to the soldiers One of them advanced , armed with the required instrument , and the aim was already taken , when the arm of the soldier was arrested by the archbishop . 
`` Cava is silent ; and so , my lord Oppas must be the friend of Roderick . 
It had been fortunate for Spain , that the defence of Tingitania , or that small portion of Western Africa which still belonged to the empire of Roderick , had been intrusted to a veteran soldier so renowned as Julian of Consuegra . 
They knew little of the Gothic kingdom -- nothing of Roderick or his predecessor ; had little interest in the internal affairs of the empire , and , as has been already in part intimated in our history , would have been much more ready to follow their immediate military leader , at the expression of his bare will , as absolute subjects , than they would have been to throw up their caps in acknowledging the elevation to the throne of the sovereign born in the purple ! 
That such , indeed , had not been the case on the ascent of Roderick , was due rather to the loyalty , or , it may be , to the prudence of Julian , than to any notion which his followers entertained of what was due to legitimacy . 
I must first remove my child from the embraces of this Roderick . '' 
The savage is the friend of Julian -- the Arab , the African , the wolf , sooner than Roderick and Spain . 
`` Show me the way to vengeance upon Roderick , and thou shalt see if I lack manhood . '' 
`` And thinkest thou , idle boy , that the arm of Julian would need thy help if fate should give us chance to meet Roderick in combat ? 
And thinkest thou that such poor revenge as his destruction will satisfy a thirst like mine ? '' 
vengeance upon his creatures -- the ministers of his will -- those who pander to his lusts , and stimulate his monstrous appetites ! '' 
I will leave my vengeance as a trophy upon the face of the land over which he sways ! 
We can not conquer Roderick but through the heart of Spain . 
He comes to yield the keys of Tingitania -- nay , more -- Musa Ben Nosier shall have possession of those keys which unlock the gates of Spain -- which secure the empire of the Goth -- the great cities of Roderick -- realms of wealth and splendor -- territories of pride and numbers -- such as the Arab does not dream in all his Mauritanian range -- these are gifts which Julian brings to the Arab ! '' 
Thou shalt have all Tingitania , all Spain , so that thou shalt help me to my vengeance upon Roderick who sways the realm thereof . '' 
`` What hath he done to thee , that thou shouldst hate him thus ? '' 
Enough that he hath wronged me so that I pant for vengeance -- so that I have but one prayer -- one passion -- and that is for his blood . 
For me , I have but one prayer -- I make but one stipulation -- that no weapon in thy array shall dare uplift itself against the heart of Roderick . 
He shall be my prize and victim only . 
I claimed his life for my reward . 
Thy question is not whether I believe in Jesus or Mahomet , but whether I believe in the tyranny and crimes of Roderick -- whether I am sincere and resolute in the burning desire to avenge them . '' 
It may be that he knew not the extent or the weakness of the empire of Roderick -- it may be that he questioned the ability of Julian to convert his forces to the cause of their country 's enemy . 
Her strength lay chiefly in the army of the frontier , and that army , veterans under Julian himself , were , as he truly described them , faithful personal adherents of himself , rather than the subjects of Roderick , or the sons of Spain . 
To the king -- to Roderick , he who had thus driven him to the deepest desperation , and to the commission of the last of crimes -- he also wrote . 
He was able , in this letter -- such was the strength of his will , and the intense character of his hatred -- to forbear all complaint , and every show of passion . 
He spoke of his daughter as if he knew not of her death -- as if he entertained not the slightest notion of the brutal usage she had endured -- and spoke to the tyrant , as if still his warm and confiding adherent . 
Arms and horses , in particular , were among the desired supplies , und for these Julian wrote to Roderick in language of entreaty , the earnestness of which was well calculated to make itself felt without provoking suspicion . 
Remembering the awful vision which he had witnessed in the mysterious cavern of Covadonga -- the vision of these swarthy invaders , following in the pale light of the baleful crescent -- recalling the terrible prediction which he could not drive from his senses , and which told him that , by infidels in this aspect , his sceptre was to be wrested from his hands , the soul of Roderick was startled by its fears , and he readily conceded to so brave a captain as Julian , all that he craved for the defence of the frontier against this greatly threatening foe . 
It was in the midst of his most precious luxuries , lapped in profligate ease , abandoned to his insane pleasure , slothfully confident and criminally joyful , that Roderick was surprised with accounts of the invasion of his kingdom . 
The despatches of Theodomir smote his senses with a terrible sense of apprehension . 
When he read , in the language of this brave old chieftain , that the Africans were upon him , without ships , and as if descending from the clouds -- he recalled once more the fearful vision of the enchanted cavern . 
His memory took a wild and rapid survey of the events from that period to the present time , and his conscience , not yet utterly crushed and subjugated in his repeated crimes , smote him keenly with the wrongs which he had done to Julian , and the hapless child of that apostate sire . 
The deeds of Julian in the foray which he was now making into his motherland , had not yet rendered him conspicuous , as they were destined to do , in the sight of his countrymen ; and Roderick , regarding him as the warrior upon whom , over all , the safety of the realm depended , now felt more than ever how cruel had been the recompense which the monarch had bestowed , in requital of the great services of the subject . 
Roderick was no imbecile in moments of peril , and he now prepared to act with a decision which was honorable to himself , and not unworthy of the valor of his race . 
The stars in their courses fought against Roderick as they did against Sisera . 
The passions of his heart were not now to be awakened until his weapon crossed in mortal conflict with that of Roderick the Goth . 
He reserved the prowess of his arm -- matchless at any weapon -- only for this single foe . 
What to him was the constant progress which the Arabian made ? 
What to him were the armies which he overthrew ? 
save that each advancing step , and each successive victory brought him so much nigher to his enemy . 
Well he knew that it was not possible for Roderick to forbear much longer to appear at the head of his armies . 
Shame , and the absolute necessity of addressing all his military skill and valor to the exigency , -LRB- and Roderick was not without high reputation for both , -RRB- would , he well knew , soon bring the tyrant into the field . 
But he did not allow for the cowardice of a guilty conscience . 
From the moment when tidings were brought to Roderick that Count Julian fought with the invader and against his Christian countrymen , he shrunk from the necessity of meeting with the foe . 
Roderick possessed in himself rare natural resources of strength and providence , of which the slothful career in which he had so long indulged , had not entirely stripped his genius . 
But his strength lay quite as much in himself as in his armies . 
Roderick felt but small confidence in their succor when he looked around him . 
Many of the nobles gave him , he well knew , but lip service . 
Many of them had suffered by his injustice -- and , upon the rest he could found but few hopes , whether as respects their conduct or their courage . 
It was he , chiefly , who had persuaded Roderick to take the field in person . 
He exaggerated the strength of the kingdom , the valor of the troops , and the weakness of the invader . 
He wrote to Julian : `` The tiger leaves his jungle . 
Then , moving with hasty stride to the tent of Taric , he said to that chieftain whom he wakened from iron slumbers : `` Arouse your Arabs , Taric , for the day is reddening in the east Arouse ye , for , even now , Roderick is setting his army in array , and marehes to the banks of the Xeres . 
It is there that we shall meet him . '' 
They were without a knowledge of war , and , lacking in discipline and arms , gave little promise of that good service which the sanguine and eager spirit of Roderick anticipated at their hands . 
This wily traitor had already contrived to establish secret but regular communications with Count Julian , The latter was punctually apprised of every movement in the camp of Roderick . 
To him the story came that Julian had revolted in behalf of Egiza , his brother , or himself , the heirs of their father , unrighteously slain by Roderick . 
That he should bring among his followers a small force of Arabs whom he had overcome , drawn to his service in Tingitania , offered no reason for suspecting him . 
Glad of an opportunity at last to cross weapons with the usurper with some prospect of effectual struggle , Pelayo readily put his troops in motion for the purpose of forming a coalition with Julian against Roderick , before the two armies could possibly meet on the banks of the Xeres . 
Such was the cunning contrivance by which it was calculated that the overwhelming masses of Roderick -- overwhelming in spite of all their inferiority of weapon and discipline -- were to be foiled and overthrown . 
Little did Roderick dream of these dangers . 
His counsel , urged indirectly , suggested frequently rather than boldly declared , was that which Roderick prefered commonly to the arguments of better men . 
He encouraged the rapid movements of the usurper against the enemy , before his followers were provided with weapons , and in spite of their obvious want of discipline . 
His argument was a specious one : `` Shall we wait , '' he asked , `` until the force of the Arabs , now small in numbers , shall be increased by countless swarms from the desert ? 
The impetuous nature of Roderick readily sympathized with this seemingly wise but really injudicious counsel , which Oppas rendered more palatable still by insisting upon the great ease with which their myriads could be overthrown . 
He spoke with scorn of their numbers and their skill , and by adroit flatteries , so wrought upon the spirit of the king that he longed for nothing so much as the encounter with a foe , from whom , according to the voice of prophecy , he had everything to dread . 
To Roderick , Oppas urged the wishes of Egilona -- and his own -- but with a different argument . 
I tell thee , Roderick , if thou wouldst have thy young warriors do famous service , let them be seen of the young maidens of the court . '' 
`` Verily , my Lord Oppas , '' said Roderick , with a merry visage , `` thou hadst been a better soldier than a priest -- albeit , thou hast some of the rarest attributes for the priesthood also . 
Ofthe further details of the conspiracy against the crown of Roderick it does not need that we should now take heed . 
This well-appointed army though but a speck in comparison with the numbers brought into the field by Roderick , wore yet the aspect of a power which might be regarded with respect and apprehension . 
The order of the well-drilled masses -- their compact army -- the symmetry and proper relationship of body to body , horse and foot , seeming to co-operate as by some secret sympathy , and without a word -- these were signs not to be misunderstood or undervalued by him whose eye hath ever enjoyed the spectacle of combat . 
But the spectacle that gave most pain and apprehension to the eyes of Roderick was that of the small but formidable body of Christian warriors leagued with the invader against his country . 
That of Roderick presented a spectacle of unexampled magnificence . 
The immense number of his host , rated by historians almost as extravagantly as those of the Persians in the invasion of Greece , was itself a sight of marvellous impressiveness . 
Scarcely an army , if we regard the mighty legions of Roderick , and the inferior , but still imposing force led by Taric and Julian . 
It was at the hour of vespers that the army of Roderick pitched its tents on the banks of the Guadalete , and that night Pelayo and the archbishop , his uncle , met midway between his own small array and the multitudes of the tyrant . 
for Roderick or the Moors ? 
If I put in with Count Julian and against Roderick , I but toil for the sons of Islam -- the infidel Moor -- the swarthy and savage invader . 
He was to stipulate with Julian and Taric for a certain share of that power which was to accrue from the defeat of Roderick . 
Taric had been impressed with the numerous array of Roderick . 
Its splendor had dazzled his eyes , and insensibly influenced his apprehensions . 
He knew his veterans , and he could reasonably judge of the inferior training of the force opposed to him ; but he as well knew that such an inequality of numbers as existed between the two armies , was not easily to be reconciled by any inequality of practice or even valor ; and he had no reason to suppose , that , if not veteran soldiers , those of Roderick were at all deficient in bravery . 
He felt the policy , therefore , of acceding to any terms , within certain limits , which might be proposed by Oppas as the price of his treachery on the ensuing day . 
Taric was cheered by a vision of the prophet , who promised him success , and a prolonged triumph ; while , in the tent of Roderick , as he sate quaffing the red wine with some of his favorite nobles , a bearded pilgrim suddenly appeared at the entrance of the tent , and spoke to him , in words , terrible like those which appeared to Belshazzar , written at his fatal feast on the walls of the chamber : `` Thy sway hath departed from thee , Roderick ! 
The Arabian sits within thy palace , and looks out upon thy people for his own ! 
He who would save himself must abandon thee ! 
Before the king could recover from his consternation at this sudden vision and these awful words , the venerable stranger had disappeared . 
There are those who assert that the speaker was no other than a Caulian monk , whom the archbishop had suborned for this purpose , and thus tutored , that he might alarm with new fears , and move to treachery like his own , certain of the nobles who sate with Roderick that night . 
Going forth with the dawn of day , Roderick summoned to him a noble called Ramiro , to whom he delivered the royal standard , charging him in the usual language , to maintain it faithfully and at the peril of his life . 
But the soul of Roderick seemed to grow stronger because of these sinister aspects in his fortunes . 
The really brave man is always true to himself : and a prouder feeling , the growth of a noble self-reliance , was kindled in his heart , as , lifting the standard from the ground , he himself rode with it along the plain of Xeres , waving it proudly aloft in the eyes of his assembled legions . 
The sacrament was administered to Roderick , kneeling in his tent , by the hand of the Bishop Urbino , the Lord Oppas being busy at the time making his own preparations for the battle . 
Thou goest forth representing thy people and thy church , and art not simply the man whom men call Roderick . 
I assoil thee , Roderick , as thou art thus repentant , from past and present sin . 
Urbino left the camp for a place of safety , while Roderick proceeded to take his last farewell of Egilona . 
It was now the purpose of Roderick to send her with Urbino to some distance from the field . 
And Roderick 's resolution yielded to hers . 
In truth he had no apprehensions of the issue . 
He could not doubt the capacity of his numerous masses to overwhelm the inferior armies of his foe . 
He had no reason to doubt the courage of his people . 
He did not suspect the treachery in his ranks . 
The auguries of the night had affected him much less than his nobles , and those of the morning already recited -- the death of Ramiro , and the trampling of the consecrated standard in the dust -- had not yet taken place . 
Roderick , destined to be the last king of the Goths , went forth to battle in the luxurious state which had been so much affected by his predecessors . 
His robes were of gold brocade , his sandals were embroidered with precious stones ; he carried the sceptre in his hand , and the royal crown , full of jewels of inestimable value , upon his brows . 
The chariot in which he rode was of ivory , the axles of silver , the wheels of burnished gold ; the pole was plated with the same precious metal . 
The hosts of Roderick shouted their wonder and delight as he passed along their ranks and enjoined upon them to do their duty as became men fighting for their country and their God . 
`` This Roderick , '' said he , `` would save us the pains of looking after his treasure . 
Would he pay our soldiers or his own with these precious jewels ? 
Dreams he that we know not their value ? 
The troops of Roderick , undefended in most part , by shield or buckler -- for the criminal prudence of Julian had despoiled the kingdom of the materials of war before his invasion was begun -- fought to manifest disadvantage . 
Scarcely had the sound subsided upon the ear , when piercing and similar notes from the ranks of Roderick , gave significant response from his accomplice . 
cried Count Julian , rising in his stirrups , and drawing the weapon of vengeance from the sheathe -- `` Now , Roderick , thy hour has come ! '' 
At the same moment , while the charge of Julian arrested the assailing and pursuing Christians , now closely pressing on the heels of the flying Moslems , the Archbishop Oppas , detaching his squadrons from the rest of the army , led them suddenly against the centre of Roderick 's array with a shock that was irresistible . 
Roderick himself performed prodigies of valor . 
He had fought from his chariot , sending dart and javelin , with fearful accuracy of direction , against every conspicuous foe ; but when , in the defection of Oppas and the terrible onslaught of Julian , the reverses of the field began , he descended from the gorgeous car , and mounted his famous steed Orelia , which had been kept in readiness for such emergencies . 
Shouting a cheering encouragement to such as survived , Roderick plunged forward to fresh encounters . 
But a voice , wild and powerful , answered exultingly to his own , from a cloud of combatants in front . 
It struck a deep terror to the heart of Roderick . 
The reins fell upon the neck of his steed -- then , as a second time the fearful accents met his ear , he caught them up in his trembling hands , wheeled the animal about , and plunging deeper than ever the rowel into his bleeding sides , he fled from the battle , with a ghastly terror in the shape of the dishonored Cava looking over his shoulders , and a prowling hate , in the aspect of her gigantic father , close pursuing at his heels . 
Thedisappearance of Roderick from the field was the signal for a general rout . 
The thousand brave young cavaliers who had formed his body guard , thinned terribly in the previous conflict , now perished to a man in covering his flight . 
It was while the Arabians were thus hotly engaged in the pursuit of the fugitives , or more gratefully occupied still in despoiling the gorgeous camp of Roderick , that the Archbishop Oppas , at the head of a chosen body of men , followed the footsteps of Egilona and the court . 
The wife of Roderick and her traitorous confessor , were alone together . 
He assisted her to dismount from her steed . 
He smiled upon her -- he spoke to her in the ancient fashion of saintly and patriarchal affection . 
But he now spoke to her in vain . 
She was aware of his deception ; she now felt how fraudulent had been his mission . 
The lamb 's skin had been torn from his shoulders , and she now knew the wolf in his natural aspect . 
Her kindling eyes , her haughty and reserved aspect , soon taught him this ; and , after a vain attempt to persuade himself that his old arts might yet be renewed with profit , his impatient spirit , vexed at repulse , abandoned all farther attempts at hypocrisy . 
`` At length , '' said he `` lovely Egilona , I may speak freely . 
As the wife of Lord Oppas , thy rule shall be in Spain quite as sufficient and large as when thou wert the wife of Roderick . 
Roderick lies upon the field of battle , never more to rise . 
Let the rites of the church bind thee to one , whose love for thee , more true than that of Roderick , is yet more fervent and considerate of the nature which dwells within thy heart . '' 
I am the wife of Don Roderick , the lord and sovereign of the Goth in Spain . '' 
The events of that meeting between Egilona and Abdalazis constituted but the beginning of an interesting drama , terminating in his final ascent to the throne of Spain , and his marriage with the widow of Roderick the Goth . 
Whilethese exciting events were in progress in one quarter of the field , what was the fate of Roderick , and whither did his footsteps tend ? 
The oozy surface of the marsh on the sides of the river deceived the unhappy Roderick . 
Orelia , striving with generous effort , in obedience to the voice and spur of the rider , became entangled in the sedge and mire at the perilous moment , and , compelled to abandon her , Roderick leapt from the saddle to the shore , only to meet with the avenger . 
`` Roderick ! '' 
cried Roderick , with a show of scorn and confidence which he did not feel -- `` I am still thy king . '' 
demanded Roderick , somewhat eagerly , deceived by the suddenly subdued tones of the apostate , and the calm and , as he fancied , the gentle expression of his eye . 
Roderick began to flatter himself with new hopes . 
He began to think that Julian might possibly relent -- might be bought off with new dignities and treasures , and employ his power in repairing the injuries he had done to his country . 
said Roderick , `` I have wronged thee deeply -- sorely have I repented of this wrong -- sorely has my kingdom suffered from it , and I stand here ready to await the issue of thy sword in the encounter . 
But it is thy crime , Roderick -- it must be revenged on both of us . 
As if conscious of all his danger , Roderick put on all his coolness and courage . 
He strove with moderate arm , simply at defence , and his prudence baffled that of the avenger . 
In that one moment Roderick forgot his caution . 
At the risk of a fearful wound , which took effect upon his shoulder in a deep gash , and upon his neck in a slight one , Julian closed in with his victim , grappled him about the waist with a single arm , and with the hand of the other plucked the dagger from the belt of Roderick , and struck with it , once , twice , thrice , to the very heart of the monarch . 
-- '' He turned to look upon Roderick . 
He himself sunk upon the ground , even as he gazed upon his victim . 
-- '' He raved . 
His form writhed beside that of Roderick . 
He grappled it with his hands . 
His eyes swam . 
He no longer saw the objects around him , or he saw them indistinctly . 
His hand still grasped the dagger with which he had given the fatal blow to his enemy , and as the conviction was renewed in his mind that it was still his enemy that he grappled , he smote again , once , twice , thrice , even as before when he had slain him ; then sinking back , he shrieked as with a shuddering and terrible agony . 
His dying senses caught the sounds of approaching persons -- the heavy tread of cavalry . 
Voices reached his ears . 
he demanded , feebly striving to rise and look around him . 
`` This surely is Roderick , the Goth . 
The young prince knelt over the corse in prayer , while his followers , lifting the crown of Roderick from the earth where it lay , placed it upon the brows of Pelayo . 
Pelayo gazed upon the body of Roderick with melancholy contemplation . 
The gory head of a noble Gothic cavalier , whose features resembled those of Roderick , was sent , as a sufficient trophy , to the Caliph at Damascus , while the deep waters which could not hide the history and the shame , effectually kept from indignity the person of the `` Last King of the Goths ! '' 
