We will now plunge directly into the thickest of our adventures , having thus happily got over the first step , which is held to be half the battle : `` Peter Piper pick 'd a peck of pickled peppers . 
Where is the peck of pickled peppers Peter Piper pick 'd ? '' 
At the time this history commences , that is to say , somewhere about the middle of the sixteenth century , a period of very remote antiquity considering the extreme juvenility of our country , this important little post was governed by the Heer Peter Piper , a short thickset person , of German parentage , whose dress , rain or shine , week days or Sundays , in peace or war , in winter and summer , was a suit of olive-coloured velvet , ornamented with ebony buttons . 
A picture still preserved in the Piper family , represents him with a round , and somewhat full face , a good deal wrinkled ; sturdy short legs , thin at the ankles , and redundant at the calves , such as we seldom see nowadays , since the horrible invention of loose trowsers , which renders it entirely unnecessary that nature should take any special pains with that part of the animal man ; square-toed shoes , and square buckles of a yellowish hue , but whether of gold or brass is impossible to decide at this remote period . 
We would give the world , that is to say , all that part of it which is at present in our possession , namely , a magnificent castle in the air , to be able to satisfy the doubts of our readers in respect to the problem whether the Heer Peter Piper wore a cocked hat . 
But as the painter , with an unpardonable negligence , and a total disregard to posterity , has chosen to represent him bareheaded , we can only say , that his head was ordinarily covered with a thick crop of hair that curled rather crabbedly about his forehead and ears . 
Certain it is that , whatever exceptions may occur to the general rule , the Heer Piper was not one of them , he being , as the course of our history will fully substantiate , an exceeding little tyrant , that fell into mortal passions about nothing , broke his nose over every straw that lay in his way , and was seldom to be found in any sort of good humour , except when he had swore vengeance at every soul that excited his wrath . 
The good people of Elsingburgh called him , behind his back , Pepper Pot Peter , in double allusion to the fiery nature of his talk , and his fondness for the dish known among our ancestors by that name , and remarkable for its high seasoning . 
The distich placed at the head of this chapter , was made upon the Heer Peter , by a wag of the day , who excelled in alliterative poetry , and of whom we shall say more anon , if we do not forget it in the multiplicity of adventures we intend to incorporate into this true history . 
But as we mean to leave a good part of our work to the imagination of the reader to supply to the best of his abilities , we will let the character of Governor Piper develop itself in his future conduct , and proceed with our story . 
One sultry summer afternoon in the month of July , the Heer Peter having finished his dinner by one o'clock , was sitting in his great arm chair , under the shade of a noble elm , the stump of which is still to be seen , and being hollow , serves for a notable pig sty , smoking his pipe as was his custom , and ruminating in that luxurious state of imbecility between sleeping and waking . 
The Heer sat with his eyes closed , and we will not swear that he was not at this precise moment fast asleep , although the smoke of his pipe still continued to ascend at regular intervals , in a perpendicular column , inasmuch as it was affirmed by Wolfgang Langfanger , and some others of his friends and counsellers , that the Heer Peter did sometimes smoke somewhat instinctively , as a man breathes in his sleep . 
These three worthies had in custody a tall , straight , light-complexioned , blue-eyed youth , who signified his contempt for the accusation , whatever it might be , the constable , Master Restore Gosling , Master Oldale , and the Heer Peter himself , by rubbing his chin on either side with his thumb and fingers , and whistling Yankee Doodle , or any other tune that doth not involve a horrible anachronism . 
All these causes combined to put the Heer Peter in a bad humour , insomuch that he privately communed with himself that he would tickle this whistling , chin-scraping stripling . 
`` Well , culprit , '' cried the Heer , with a formidable aspect of authority -- `` Well , culprit , what is your crime ? 
`` Answer me , sirrah , '' quoth the Heer , `` what is thy crime , I say ? '' 
The Heer Peter Piper began to suspect that the Long Finne did not stand in sufficient awe of his dignity and authority , a suspicion than which nothing could put him in a greater passion . 
He addressed Master Dotterel , and demanded to know for what offence the culprit was brought before him , in a tone which Lob perfectly understood as encouragement not to suppress any part of the prisoner 's guilt . 
Lob hereupon referred the Heer to Master Oldale , who referred him to Restore Gosling , who had laid the information . 
This apparent disposition to shift the onus probandicaused additional wrath in the Heer , who began to tremble lest the Long Finne might give him the slip , and escape the consequences of his contempt of authority . 
Master Gosling , after divers scratches of the head , such as my Lord Byron indulgeth in when he writeth poetry , gathered himself together , and said as follows -- not deposed , for the Heer held it an undue indulgence to prisoners , to put the witnesses against them to their bible oath . 
exclaimed the Heer , rubbing his hands ; `` this looks like conspiracy and plot with a vengeance . 
Now the Heer Peter always took pattern after the old countries , insomuch that whenever a plot came out in England , or elsewhere , he forthwith got up another at Elsingburgh , as nearly like it as possible . 
In one word , he imitated all the pranks , freaks and fooleries of royalty , as an ape does those of a man . 
The Heer Piper governed a territory by right of discovery , grant , possession , and what not , somewhat larger than Sweden , and which , at the time of this writing , contained exactly -LRB- by census -RRB- three hundred and sixty-eight souls , exclusive of Indians . 
In addition to these causes of disgust , it was rumoured , that his Excellency the Heer , being once riding out near Coaquanock , met a Quaker driving a great wagon , and who refusing to turn either to the right or to the left , rendered it necessary for Peter Piper to attempt to pass him , by the which his buggy was overset , and himself precipitated into a slough . 
Under the influence of these statesmanlike views , jealousies , antipathies , and what not , the Heer viewed the possession of such a quantity of Mark Newby 's halfpence as a suspicious circumstance , and indeed had little doubt , in his own mind , that the Long Finne had come into the settlement to seduce it from its allegiance to the great Gustavus , by actual bribery . 
It hath been shrewdly observed , that the value of money regulates the consciences of men , as it does every other article of trade , so that the suspicion of Governor Piper was not quite so ridiculous as many ignorant readers may be inclined to suppose at first sight . 
`` Long Finne , '' said the Heer , after considerable cogitation -- `` Long Finne , thou art found guilty of suspicion of traitorous designs against the authority of his sacred majesty , Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden , and in order that thou mayest have time and opportunity to clear up thy character , we sentence thee to be imprisoned till thine innocence is demonstrated , or thou shalt confess thy guilt . '' 
The whole assembly were struck with astonishment at the wisdom of Governor Piper 's decision , which they looked upon as dictated by blind Justice herself . 
But the Heer , whose maxim it was to punish first and pity afterwards , forthwith commanded him to be quiet , quoting his favourite saying , `` Sirrah , if we both talk at once , how are we to understand one another ? '' 
As they were taking him from the presence of the Governor to convey him to prison , the tall , fair youth , turned his eye mildly , yet significantly towards the Heer , and pronounced in a low voice the words , `` Caspar Steinmets . '' 
`` What of him '' -- rejoined the Heer . 
cried the Heer -- `` I never heard that old Caspar Steinmets had a nephew , and I do n't believe a word of it . '' 
`` Blood of my heart , '' exclaimed the Heer , contemplating the picture , `` but this is old Caspar Steinmets , sure enough ! 
interrupted the fair youth , passionately ; but , as if recollecting himself , he relapsed again into an air of unconquerable serenity , and began to whistle in an under tone . 
The youth seemed about to remonstrate , but again , as if suddenly recollecting himself , remained silent , shrugged his shoulders , and quietly submitted to be conducted to the prison , followed by the crowd , which usually , on such occasions , volunteers as an honourable escort to heroes of the bridewell and quarter sessions . 
Having despatched this weighty affair , the Heer Piper knocked the ashes out of his pipe , and returned to his gubernatorial mansion , with a full resolution of communicating the whole affair to the Chancellor Oxenstiern . 
In one word , it was just the period betwixt daylight and dark , when the Heer Piper , as affirmed at the end of the last chapter , returned to his mansion , to indulge himself in his accustomed stout supper , which usually consisted of a tankard of what is called hardcider , a species of beverage , which goes down a man 's throat like a sharp sword , and which the sturdy Heer called emphatically man 's cider , it being an unquestionable demonstration of manhood to be able to drink it , without causing people 's eyes to start out of their heads . 
All these luxuries of the day were spread on the table , and waited his coming , in company with the members of the household . 
The first of these which we shall introduce in due form to the reader , was the lady Edith Piper , only sister to his Excellency the Governor -- a person of ominious notability , who , on the death of the Heer 's wife , had taken command of the establishment , and , if report says true , of Governor Piper into the bargain . 
She was , in the main , a good sort of a body , and of a most public-spirited disposition , since she neglected the affairs of the Heer , to attend to those of every body else in the village . 
Madam Edith was supposed to maintain her authority over the Heer Piper , more by dint of talking incessantly , than through the agency of fear . 
In process of time she worried him out , and , from long experience of the perseverance of the dame , as well as the inefficacy of resistance , Governer Piper came at last to a quiet submission to be tyrannized over within doors , being resolved to make himself amends by tyrannizing without . 
Of her voice , it may be affirmed that it was as sharp as the Heer 's favourite cider . 
She was , in fact , a desperate railer , gifted with a natural eloquence that was wont to overpower the voice and authority of aunt Edith , and drive the Heer Piper from his sternest domestic resolves . 
It was said that she was the daughter and the wife of an African King , taken in battle , and sold to a trader who carried her to St. Barts , where she was bought by the Heer Peter Piper , who whilome figured as Fiscal of that fruitful island , from whence she accompanied him first to Finland , and afterwards to the new world . 
When at home , in the Heer 's kitchen , she never slept except in the day time ; but often passed the night , wandering about such parts of the house as were free to her , apparently haunted by some sleepless spirit , and often stopping before the great Dutch clock in the hall . 
In justice to the Heer , we must premise , that it was not his fault that Bombie was not better clad , for he often gave her clothing , with which no one ever knew what was done , as she was seldom seen in any thing but a multiplicity of rags . 
Though , to appearance , exceedingly aged and infirm , the Snow Ball , as Governor Piper used to call her , was gifted with an activity and power of endurance , that had something almost supernatural in it , and which enabled her to brave all seasons , and all weathers , as if she had been the very statue of black marble she sometimes seemed , when standing stock still , leaning on her stick and contemplating the silent moon . 
At present we will leave the Heer to finish his supper , as we mean to do our own presently , not wishing to burthen the reader with too much of a good thing , which is shrewdly affirmed to be equivalent to a thing which is good for nothing . 
The reader may perhaps wonder at the spiritless acquiescence with which the Long Finne submitted to the decision of the Heer Piper , as well as to the safe conduct of the constable . 
The daughter , the only daughter , nay , the only offspring of the Heer , was sitting in the low parlour window that looked out upon the green sward , where that puissant governor used to smoke his afternoon 's pipe in pleasant weather , when the vigilant high constable brought in the tall , fair prisoner . 
It was thus , in some degree , with the fair and gentle daughter of the Heer , whose light blue eye , the colour of the north , seemed destined to conquer all hearts in the new world , as her blue-eyed ancestors did the old with their invincible arms . 
The person whose appearance we have thus sketched , as might be expected , excited a degree of interest in the maiden , sufficiently powerful to have impelled her to actual interference with the Heer , in favour of the prisoner , had it not been for that new-born feeling , which , wherever it is awakened in the bosom of a delicate and virtuous female , is accompanied by a shrinking and timid consciousness , that trembles lest the most common courtesies , and the most ordinary emotions , may be detected as the offspring of a warmer feeling . 
The Heer , in fact , never failed to resent all interference of this nature on the part of the ladies of his household , always accompanying his refusal by some wicked jest , or some reflection upon people 's not minding their own business . 
One part of the building was appropriated to the accommodation of persons who had the misfortune to fall under the guilt of suspicion , like the Long Finne ; and in the other portion , was the great court room , as it was pompously called , where the Heer met , as was his custom , to consult with his council , and do just as he liked afterwards , as practised by the potent Governors of that day . 
Weneglected to mention , not foreseeing that it might be necessary to the course of our history , that the Heer Piper , when he pronounced sentence upon the Long Finne , did also at the same time declare , all that portion of Mark Newby 's halfpence which he carried about him , utterly forfeited , one half to the informer , the other to the crown of Sweden . 
When , therefore , the next morning he felt the gnawings of that insatiate fiend , whom bolts , nor bars , nor subterranean dungeons , suffice to keep from tagging at the heels of man , and ventured to hint to dame Swaschbuckler that he had some idea of wanting his breakfast , that good woman promptly desired him to lay down his dust , and she would procure him a breakfast fit for Governor Piper himself . 
`` Master Lob Dotterel , '' replied he . 
Dinner-time came , but no dinner ; supper-time came , but no supper ; for it ought to be premised , that it was one of the Heer Piper 's maxims , that the less a criminal had to eat in prison , the more likely he would be to come to a speedy confession of his crime . 
As he stood thus contrasting the cheerful aspect of the palace with his dark , noiseless prison , and his own solitary starving state , he beheld them bringing in the Heer 's supper , and his bowels yearned . 
WhileDan Cupid was shooting his arrows with such effect from the windows of the prison , to those of the palace , and so back again , the Heer Piper and Madam Edith were taken up with other weighty affairs , that prevented any interference with the young people on their part . 
His Excellency was confined to his room with a fit of the gout ; a disorder , which , according to the theory of a waggish friend of ours , naturally resolves itself into three distinct stages in its progress . 
This gout , the Heer was wont to say , was the only inheritance he received from his father , who left one of his sons the estate without the gout , and the other the gout without the estate ; which , in the opinion of Governor Piper , was a most unjust distribution . 
During these attacks , the Heer 's natural irascibility of temper was , as might be expected , greatly increased , insomuch , that if any one came suddenly into the room , or opened the door with a noise , or walked heavily , so as to shake the floor , he would flourish his crutch most manfully , and exclaim , `` der teufel hole dich , der galgen schivenkel ; '' or , if it happened to be Bombie of the Frizzled Head , `` das tonnerwetter schlage dich kreutzeveis in den boden , '' one of his most bitter denunciations . 
Indeed , the only person allowed to approach him was the fair and gentle Christina , whose soothing whispers , and soft , delicate touch , seemed to charm away his pains , and lull his impatient spirit into temporary rest . 
At such times , he would lay his hand gently on her head , cry `` God bless thee , my daughter , '' and close his eyes in quiet resignation . 
In process of time , the Heer Piper became sufficiently recovered to limp about with crutch and velvet shoe , and take an interest in the affairs of the village , which , in his opinion , had suffered exceedingly during his illness . 
One day , by chance , he bethought himself of the Long Finne , and pondered how it came to pass that he had not been brought to confession by this time . 
He had now been imprisoned nearly a fortnight , and Governor Piper held him to be a tough piece of humanity , if he did not , by this time , feel somewhat compunctious , under the combined influence of solitude and hunger . 
He forthwith determined to call the fair , tall youth before his privy council , and accordingly , despatched his trusty messenger Cupid , grandson to the incomprehensible Bombie of the Frizzled Head , to summon them together . 
The only gleams of affection or attachment ever exhibited by this dwarfish and miserable being , seemed called forth by his grandmother , and an old Swedish cur , belonging to the Heer . 
After the different `` how doon ye 's '' had been exchanged , and the Heer had given a full , true , and particular history of his late fit of the gout , he opened his business , and Lob Dotterel , who always instinctively attended on these occasions , was depatched for the Long Finne . 
In the mean time , the Heer and his council lighted their pipes , and took their seats with most imposing dignity . 
Master Lob fulfilled his duty in the twinkling of an eye , and the Long Finne appeared in the high presence , with pretty much the same air of indifference as before , and with a rosy complexion , which puzzled the Heer not a little , till he resolved the thing into a blush of conscious guilt . 
`` Well , henckers knecht , '' said the Heer , `` have you come to your senses by this time ? '' 
`` Der teufel hole dich , '' exclaimed the Heer , waxing wroth ; `` dost think to brave it out with me in this manner , der ans dem land gejacter kerl?Where gottest thou that handful of Mark Newby 's halfpence ? 
exclaimed the Heer , and there-upon the three members of the council gave a simultaneous puff extraordinary , expressive of astonishment . 
`` Harkye , Lob Dotterel , '' said the Heer , `` did ` st see the Long Finne receive this money in change from the stranger ? '' 
`` I did , '' replied master high constable , who began to feel his prisoner slipping through his fingers . 
exclaimed the Heer , dashing the ashes from his pipe in a mortal passion ; `` and why didst not tell me so before , der galgen schivenkel ? '' 
`` Put him to his bible oath , '' said the Heer , who held that , though the oath of a witness was not necessary to the committing of a person to jail , yet was it indispensable to his release . 
Whereupon Wolfgang Langfanger , the pottee-baker , pulled out of his breeches pocket , a marvellously greasy little square book with silver clasps , which , having first rubbed bright on the sleeve of his coat , he handed to the Heer . 
Lob Dotterel was then incontinently put to his corporal oath , and confirmed the account which the prisoner had given of his coming into the possession of such a quantity of Mark Newby 's halfpence . 
exclaimed the Heer , shaking his crutch at Lob Doterel , who looked rather sheepish , and , for that matter , so did his Excellency . 
However , he gathered himself together , and forthwith pronounced so discriminating a judgment on the case , that , had not the town of Elsingburgh been destroyed long ago , it would , doubtless , have been remembered to this day in the traditions of the inhabitants . 
Mustering together his recreant , runaway dignity , he decided , that he should divide his judgment into two parts . 
And first , as he , Koningsmarke , sirnamed the Long Finne , was acquitted of treasonable practices in regard to the possession of Mark Newby 's halfpence , he should be released from prison . 
The rest of the council signified their approbation , according to custom , by saying nothing ; for it ought to have been premised that the Heer Piper , as the representative of majesty , held , that though bound to consult his council , he was not bound to pay any attention to their opinions . 
In fact , it was his maxim , that a council was of no other use to a Governor , than to bear the blame of any unlucky or unpopular measure . 
As Lob Dotterel placed his withering paw on the shoulder of the Long Finne , that mysterious and unaccountable youth took occasion to except to the Governor 's assertion that he had not been able to give a good account of himself . 
`` If your Excellency is not satisfied , I will begin again , and give you the history of my family , from the flood , in which some of my ancestors were doubtless drowned , to the present time , when '' -- `` When , '' interrupted the Heer , `` one of their posterity , at least , is in some danger of being hanged . 
Wherewas the fair and gentle daughter of the Heer , while what we have detailed in the last chapter was passing ? 
In the mean time , the Heer Piper had been apprised of the situation of the Long Finne , who , as we have before stated , was taken up insensible , after his fall from the window of the prison . 
Though a testy , impatient little man , the Heer was , at the bottom , neither ill-natured nor malignant . 
At length , however , the desperate contest was over ; the colour gradually came back into his cheeks , and he seemed to recognise the Heer , who had watched his revival with no little solicitude . 
The recovery of the Long Finne , who was sorely bruised with his fall , was slow and gradual , but it was at last completed , and he became a man again . 
Unwilling any longer to trespass on the hospitality of the Heer , the young man one day took an opportunity to express his deep and indelible sense of the obligations he owed to the Heer and his family , his inability to repay them for the present , his hope that providence would one day put it in his power , and finally , his resolution to depart on the morrow . 
It was so with the Heer Piper , who felt no little complacency of spirit , when he looked back upon the various claims his late kindness had given him and his , on the gratitude of the youth . 
When , therefore , he heard the proposition for to-morrow 's departure , it was with something like a feeling of dissatisfaction . 
`` Why , hang it , Long Finne , '' he exclaimed , `` I hope there is no ill-blood between us about the affair of Mark Newby 's halfpence -- eh ! '' 
`` Well , well , '' replied the Heer , `` I will tell thee what . 
`` Der teuful hole dich , '' cried the fiery and puissant Heer ; `` who told thee thy old friends were tired of thee ? 
furiously exclaimed the Heer . 
`` Very well , '' quoth the Heer ; `` away with thee ; and harkye , if I hear any thing more about that d -- d charity , I 'll set that mortal speechifier , the Snow Ball , at thee , for I perceive thou art more afraid of her confounded smoked tongue than of der teufel . '' 
As the Heer said this , he looked round rather apprehensively , as if to see whether the Snow Ball was not within hearing , knowing full well that if he affronted her , she would spoil his pepper-pot for him at supper . 
But the Heer , though he loved her better than pipe or pepper-pot , was a testy , scolding little man ; apt to speak rather more than he thought , and to threaten more than he would do . 
The Heer , at this time , was sorely environed with certain weighty cares of state , that perplexed him exceedingly , and added not a little to the irritability of his temper . 
Trespasses , on either side , occasioned mutual complaints , and though the Heer Piper fell into a passion and swore , the other kept his temper , and the possession of the territory in dispute besides . 
When Shadrach Moneypenny appeared before the council of New Swedeland , the first offence he gave was omitting either to make a bow , or pull off his hat , to the great annoyance of Governor Piper ; who was as great a stickler for ceremony as the emperor of China , or the secretary of state , in a republic , where all are equal . 
The Heer fidgeted , first one way , then another , made divers wry faces , and had not Shadrach been a privileged person , on the score of his plenipotential functions , would have committed him to the custody of Lob Dotterel , to be dealt with contrary to law . 
In the mean time , Shadrach stood bolt upright , with his hands crossed before him , his nose elevated towards the ceiling , and his eyes shut . 
At length he snuffled out -- `` Friend Piper , the spirit moveth me to say unto thee , I am come from Coaquanock to commune with thee on the subject of the disputes among our people and thine , about certain boundaries between our patent and the pretended rights of thy master . '' 
`` Friend Piper -- pretended rights , '' repeated the Heer , muttering indignantly to himself . 
`` Friend Piper , '' replied Shadrach , standing in precisely the position we have described -- `` Friend Piper , swear not at all . 
exclaimed the Heer , in mortal dudgeon ; `` the great Gustavus , the Bulwark of the Protestant Faith , a man of blood ! 
`` Swear not at all , '' replied Shadrach , `` friend Piper . 
`` Du galgen schivenkel , '' quoth the Heer ; `` does thy religion consist in thy hat , that thou refusest to put it off ? 
but I will swear , and so shall Ludwig Varlett , '' cried the Heer ; whereupon Ludwig hoisted the gates of his eloquence , and poured forth such a torrent of expletives , that , had not Shadrach been immoveable as his hat , he had been utterly demolished . 
`` Friend Piper , is it thy pleasure to hear what I have got to say ? 
The spirit moveth me '' -- `` The spirit may move thee to the d -- l , '' cried Peter , `` or the flesh shall do it , if you do n't pull off your hat , du ans dem land gejacter kerl . '' 
`` Verily , I understand not thy jargon , friend Peter , '' rejoined Shadrach ; `` neither will I go to him thou speakest of , at thine or any other man 's bidding . 
`` No , may I eat of the teufel 's bradenif I hear another word from that ugly mouth of thine , till you pull off your hat , '' exclaimed the choleric Heer , starting from his seat . 
`` Thou mayst eat what thou pleasest , friend Piper , '' rejoined the other ; `` and for my ugly mouth , since it offends thee , I will depart to whence I came . '' 
So saying , he leisurely turned himself round , and was proceeding on his way , when the Heer Piper , to whose choler the dry eloquence of Shadrach added fresh fuel , cried out , `` Stop ! '' 
The machinery of Shadrach , which had been put in motion for his departure , stopped , accordingly , and he remained , standing in most rigid perpendicularity , with his back to the Heer , and his head turned over his shoulder , so as to meet his eye . 
`` I am stopped , friend Piper , '' quoth he . 
The Heer Piper , hereupon , directed Lob Dotterel , who was in attendance , as part of the puissance of the Governor of Elsingburgh , forthwith to procure him a hammer and a tenpenny nail , an order which that excellent and attentive officer obeyed with his usual alacrity . 
`` Art thou going to build thee an house , friend Piper , that thou callest for nails and hammers ? '' 
`` You shall see presently , '' answered the Heer . 
`` Thou mayst do as thou pleasest , friend Piper , '' replied Shadrach , unmoved by the threat . 
The Heer was now in the predicament , of certain passionate people , who threaten , what , when it comes to the point , they shrink from inflicting . 
Besides that the law of nations made the persons of envoys sacred , he could not bring himself to commit violence upon one , whose principles of non-resistance were so inflexible . 
By way of coming off , therefore , with a good grace , he and Ludwig Varlett , fell into a great passion , and saluted Shadrach Moneypenny , with a duet of expletives , which that worthy plenipotentiary bore , for some time , with his usual stoical indifference . 
`` Art thou ready , friend Piper , '' exclaimed he , taking advantage of the two singers being out of breath . 
`` Begone , and der teufel hole dich , and das tonnerwetter schlage dich kreutzeveis in den boden , '' cried the Heer . 
`` I go , verily ; '' and the good Shadrach marched leisurely out of the council chamber , with his hands crossed over his breast , his eyes turned upwards , neither looking to the right nor to the left . 
Coming to the place where he had left his horse , he untied him from the branch of an apple-tree , mounted by the aid of a friendly rock , and seated himself in the saddle ; whereupon , he smote him in the side with his unarmed heel , and the horse , taking the hint , trotted off for the territory of Coaquanock . 
The obstinacy of Shadrach , in not pulling off his hat to the Heer , and that of my Lord Amherst , in refusing to prostrate himself ever so many times before the elder brother of the moon , were both , in all probability , followed by consequences that affected millions of human beings , or will affect them at some future period . 
He had accordingly invented , and persuaded the Heer Piper to put into practice , a system of internal improvement , which has been imitated , from time to time , in this country , ever since , with great success . 
The essence of his plan consisted in running in debt for the present , and living afterwards upon the anticipation of future wealth . 
The Heer was excessively tickled with the idea of being so effectually revenged upon Shadrach Moneypenny , and the rest of his old enemies , the Quakers . 
The Heer was rather startled at this project , considering the expense of purchasing the houses to be pulled down , and the probable opposition of the good people who inhabited them . 
The worthy Counsellor Langfanger , by direction of Governor Piper , forthwith set about devising the ways and means to keep up public credit , and go on with the public improvements . 
Counsellor Langfanger devised , and the Heer Piper adopted and enforced , a system of taxation , more just and equally proportioned than any ever before known . 
on his property ; but then , the Heer reserved to himself to value the said property agreeably to his discretion . 
Accordingly , to make his revenues meet his improvements , he was obliged to rate things at a sort of imaginary prospective value , at least three times greater than any body would give for them . 
The good people of Elsingburgh were highly astonished at finding themselves so rich , and paid their taxes cheerfully , until the perpetual drain upon their pockets , to pay for Counsellor Langfanger 's improvements , made it convenient to sell some part of their property , when they were utterly confounded to find themselves rich only according to the Heer Piper 's tax list . 
In the mean time , the Heer and his Counsellor every day discovered some new article to tax , until at length it came to pass , that every thing necessary to the existence of the people of Elsingburgh , every thing that belonged to them , to the very heads on their shoulders , and the coats on their backs , was loaded with imposts , to contribute to the great end of public improvement . 
It will be only anticipating the course of events a few years , to say , that many of these projects of Counsellor Langfanger never realized the advantages he predicted , and of others that did , the profits were never reaped by those who paid for them , since a great portion of these were , in process of time , compelled to sell their property by piecemeal , to meet the perpetual exactions of the Heer Piper and his long-headed Counsellor . 
But whoever compares the system of the Heer Piper , and his long-headed Counsellor Wolfgang Langfanger , with that commonly in operation at this time in our cities and states , will at once perceive it is nothing more than the same thing brought up again in the revolutions of the great wheel , the primum mobileof human events . 
In defailing the various plans of Governor Piper , to make all the little bad boys good by means of teaching them their A , B. C ; in his attempts to banish vice and poverty from Elsingburgh , by an ingenious mode of encouraging idleness ; and in various other philanthropic schemes , which we shall from time to time develop , it will appear to demonstration , that he anticipated the present age by at least a century and a half . 
TheHeer Piper , as we have seen in the preceding details , was principally influenced , in his political designs , by the advice of Counsellor Langfanger ; but he intrusted the administration of his ecclesiastical affairs to Domine Kanttwell , director of the consciences of the good people of Elsingburgh . 
Aided by the influence of the Heer , the eloquence of aunt Edith , and the activity of Lob Dotterel , the merry little village of Elsingburgh became a dull , torpid , dronish hive , where nothing was thought of but the bottomless pit . 
The Domine used all his influence , as well as that of the Heer Piper , and aunt Edith , to persuade people their shoes would never prosper , if made , or even mended , by the wicked , ballad-singing cobbler . 
They walked home without uttering a word , and were received with a very bad grace by the Heer , who did not much like their walking so late by moonlight . 
But when he heard the story of Christina 's deliverance from the blue-eyed maiden herself , he wept over her like an infant , and , grasping the Long Finne in his arms , blessed the youth , and called him his dear son . 
The Heer often cursed her in the bitterness of his perplexity , exclaiming -- `` why dost thou not speak out , thou execrable Snow Ball . '' 
The Heer Piper valued himself upon being a genuine northern man , and , consequently , held the winter holydays in special favour and affection . 
In addition to this hereditary attachment to ancient customs , it was shrewdly suspected , that his zeal in celebrating these good old sports was not a little quickened , in consequence of his mortal antagonist , William Penn , having hinted , in the course of their controversy , that the practice of keeping holydays savoured not only of popery , but paganism . 
Before the Heer consented to sanction the projects of Dominie Kanttwell for abolishing sports and ballads , he stipulated for full liberty , on the part of himself and his people of Elsingburgh , to eat , drink , sing and frolic as much as they liked , during the winter holydays . 
In fact , the Dominie made no particular opposition to this suspension of his blue-laws , being somewhat addicted to good eating and drinking , whenever the occasion justified ; that is to say , whenever such accidents came in his way . 
It had long been the custom with Governor Piper , to usher in the new year with a grand supper , to which the Dominie , the members of the council ; and certain of the most respectable Burghers , were always bidden . 
This year , he determined to see the old year out , and the new one in , as the phrase was , having just heard of a great victory gained by the Bulwark of the Protestant Religion , the immortal Gustavus Adolphus ; which , though it happened nearly four years before , had only now reached the village of Elsingburgh . 
The Heer told his great story of having surprised and taken a whole picquet-guard , under the great Gustavus ; and each of the guests contributed his tale , taking special care , however , not to outdo their host in the marvellous , a thing which always put the Governor out of humour . 
A couple of hours sleep sufficed to disperse the vapours of punch and pepper-pot ; for heads in those days were much harder than now , and the Heer , as well as his roistering companions , rose betimes to give and receive the compliments and good wishes of the season . 
The sun shone with the lustre , though not with the warmth of summer , and his bright beams were reflected with indescribable splendour , from the glassy , smooth expanse of ice , that spread across , and up and down the broad river , far as the eye could see . 
At twelve o'clock , the jolly Heer , according to his immemorial custom , went forth from the edge of the river , distributing apples , and other dainties , together with handsfull of wampum , which , rolling away on the ice in different directions , occasioned innumerable contests and squabbles among the fry , whose disputes , tumbles , and occasional buffetings for the prizes , were inimitably ludicrous upon the slippery element . 
His voice could be heard above all the rest , especially after the arrival of the Heer , before whom he seemed to think it his duty to exert himself , while his unrestrained , extravagant laugh , exhibited that singular hilarity of spirit which distinguishes the deportment of the African slave from the invariable gravity of the free redman of the western world . 
He announced himself as from Coaquanock , and as being on his way down to the Hoar Kills , having taken the ice , as the best and most direct path thither , The worthy Heer , whose generous feelings never failed to conquer his antipathies , treated the stranger with the greatest kindness , during his progress to a perfect recovery ; praised and caressed the Long Finne , for his gallant presence of mind ; and finally observed , `` I would give twenty rix-dollars , if the galgen schivenkelhad been any thing save a Quaker . '' 
He had saved her from the violence of the maniac , and thus excited her everlasting gratitude ; and soon after , performed an act of daring humanity , that called forth all her admiration . 
Thus every effort she made to drive him from her heart , was met by some action of his , that only riveted him more strongly there . 
The paleness of her cheek , the languor of her figure , and her eye , gradually became more and more apparent , until at last the good Heer began to observe , and to be alarmed at her looks . 
He seldom or never brought home any game , and numerous were the jests which the Heer cracked on his want of skill in the noble sports of hunting . 
The Long Finne would often have been lost in the woods , had it not been for his dog , who , with unerring sagacity , always showed him the way home . 
One day , we believe it might have been towards the latter end of February , Koningsmarke set forth on his customary ramble , with his gun on his shoulder , his tinder-box , flint , and steel , the indispensable appendages of ramblers in those pathless woods . 
He whistled , and called for his dog , but the animal had been seduced away , in the pure spirit of mischief , by that likely fellow , Cupid . 
Koningsmarke , therefore , proceeded without him , with a friendly caution from the Heer , to look which way he went , not to wander too far , and , with an arch wink , to be sure and bring home a fat haunch of venison . 
The intense cold had gathered the good Heer and his family close around a blazing hickory fire , where , at first , they began to wonder what had become of the youth . 
By degrees , as the evening advanced , and the storm grew louder and louder , their apprehensions became painful , and each furnished a variety of suggestions , to account for his non-appearance , none of which , however , were satisfactory . 
As bed time drew near , and he came not , the fair and gentle Christina could no longer conceal those keen anxieties which virtuous timidity had hitherto enabled her to smother in the recesses of her heart . 
The good Heer shed tears at the thought of his melancholy fate ; but the eyes of his fair daughter were dry , while her heart wept drops of blood . 
The Heer Piper fell on his neck and blessed him ; while his pale daughter , after rushing half way into the room , as if to welcome him , suddenly recoiled , and fainted away . 
For the first time , did the Heer begin to suspect the state of his daughter 's heart ; for , although the mysterious hints of the Snow Ball , together with some occasional sly innuendoes of his long-headed counsellor , Wolfgang Langfanger , had sometimes set him thinking on the subject , he was always called off to the more weighty affairs of state , before he could come to any conclusion on the subject . 
Now the Heer was a warm-hearted little man , that came to his conclusions somewhat suddenly . 
He liked the Long Finne , was accustomed to his society , and , in looking around the village , could see no one worthy the hand of his daughter , or of being son-in-law to the Representative of Majesty . 
`` Long Finne , '' quoth the Heer -- `` Long Finne , dost thou love my daughter ? '' 
`` Christina , my daughter , my darling , come hither , '' said the Heer . 
The Heer approached , took her cold hand , and said , `` Answer me , my daughter ; wilt thou be the wife of this youth ? '' 
`` Then join your hands , '' said the good Heer , the tears starting from his eyes , `` and receive the blessing of a father . '' 
Christina snatched her hand from the eager grasp of Koningsmarke , and rushed out of the Heer 's presence , exclaiming in agony , `` Oh , God ! 
`` Der teufel holethat infernal black Snow Ball , '' cried the irritated Heer ; `` what means the the old hag , Long Finne ? '' 
`` Der teufelis in ye all , I think , '' muttered the Heer Piper , and proceeded to eat his breakfast , out of humour with every body , and particularly with himself . 
It will generally be found , that a person in this state of mind , at length concentrates his ill humour upon some particular object ; and accordingly it happened that the Heer , by tracing up effects to their causes , discovered that all the mischiefs of the morning originated in Cupid 's having , as we before stated , enticed away the Long Finne 's dog . 
The Heer Piper , though not actually a king himself , is the representative of a king . 
About the period to which our history has now brought us , there existed considerable misunderstanding between the Heer Piper and the neighbouring tribes . 
On the other hand , the Heer Piper charged them with trespassing on the rights of his Swedish Majesty , by hunting on the lands ceded by them in fair purchase . 
The Heer , however , preferred calling a conference with some of the Chiefs , who were accordingly summoned to meet the Representative of the Swedish Majesty , at a spot about four miles from Elsingburg , on the bank of the little river to which we have so often alluded in the course of this history . 
To this sequestered spot came the Heer Piper , accompanied by the Long Finne , Dominie Kanttwell , the trusty Counsellors of Elsingburg , together with divers men , women , and children , drawn thither by curiosity , and whom the trusty and indefatigable Lob Dotterel kept in order , by dint of making more noise than all the rest . 
On the opposite side , upon a little natural platform , was placed a bench , or tribune , for the Heer Piper and his suite . 
The Heer on this occasion was dressed in his uniform as a Swedish officer , which he wore under the Great Gustavus , and had on a sword , given him , as he affirmed , by that Bulwark of the Protestant Faith , as a reward for certain great services , which Governor Piper declined to enumerate , except on new-year 's eve , and other remarkable epochs . 
Having lighted it , he took a whiff or two , handed it to the next , and thus it passed completely round the circle , till both white-men and red-men had partaken in the solemn rite of peace . 
The Rolling Thunder then bowed gracefully to the Heer , and waved his hand in token that they were ready to hear him . 
Governor Piper rose , and his speech was from time to time translated by an interpreter . 
said the Heer , feeling all the dignity of his situation as the representative of a king , addressing an assemblage of kings . 
The red kings heard this harangue in dead silence , and waited a little while to see if the Heer had done speaking . 
The Rolling Thunder then rose , and , throwing back his blanket , so as to bare his shoulder and red right arm , spoke as follows , beginning in a low tone , and gradually becoming more loud and animated : -- `` Long Knife ! 
He treated their ancient belief with scorn ; insulted their feelings of national pride ; scoffed at their modes of thinking and acting ; and drew a mortifying contrast betwixt the ignorant barbarian roaming the woods , and the white-man enjoying the comfort and security of civilized life . 
The Heer and his party were now in imminent danger of falling victims to the fury of the moment . 
But the Rolling Thunderarose , and , waving his hand for silence , spoke as follows : -- `` Red-men ! 
He then bared his arm , and , drawing his knife , stuck it into the fleshy part . 
The blood spouted forth , as he exclaimed , `` For every drop that now falls to the ground there shall be counted one , two , three , ay , four victims , from the nest of the serpent . '' 
The alarmed and irritated Heer muttered to himself `` Verflucht und verdamt sey deine schwarze seele , '' and , together with his train , returned gloomy and dissatisfied to his village of Elsingburgh . 
Likethe old war-horse , when he snuffs the scent of war , and hears the shrill fife , the braying trumpet , and the thrilling drum , the Heer Piper now felt the spirit of the ancient follower of the great Gustavus reviving within him , even as the snuff of an expiring lamp or candle ; the latter being rather the most savoury comparison . 
He inspected his palisades , scoured his pattereroes , victualled his garrison , and exercised the villagers in practising the deadly rifle . 
Every day he invested himself in his cocked hat , invincible sword , and tarnished regimentals , and strutted about with a countenance so full of undaunted valour , that the very women and little children slept soundly every night , save when a troop of howling wolves approached the village under cover of darkness , and waked them with the apprehension of an attack of the Indians , led on by the Rolling Thunder himself , whose very name was enough to alarm a whole regiment of militia . 
Every day the Heer talked and strutted more loftily than the day before , and boasted more confidently of the sound drubbing he would give these galgen schievenkels , if they dared to attack his fortress of Elsingburgh . 
Finding the Indians did not come as soon as he expected them , the good Heer at length persuaded himself they would not come at all , though he ought to have known that the race of the red-men never forget either a benefit or an injury . 
He accordingly remitted his vigilance by degrees , and put his fortress upon the peace establishment , in spite of the singular and mysterious warnings of the Frizzled Head . 
That declamatory oddity was now more vehement in her incomprehensible denunciations , never meeting the Heer without uttering some dismal raven 's note . 
would the Heer reply ; `` away with thee , and either speak what thou knowest , or hold thy tongue . 
`` Confound thee for a muddle-pated , crackbrained Snow Ball , '' quoth the Heer ; while Bombie of the Frizzled Head would go in search of that likely fellow Cupid , her grandson , who every day became more moody and ungovernable , and now spent more than half his time wandering about with his dog in the woods . 
We should have mentioned before , that among the plans adopted by the Heer and his trusty counsellors for improving the police of Elsingburgh , was that of passing laws for the prevention of various amusements , which children have practised from time immemorial , and which are as much their right , as any of the immunities which men enjoy under the common law . 
If Lob Dotterel , who was always on the look-out , brought information that a horse had thrown his rider in consequence of being frightened by a paper kite , a law was forthwith enacted to forbid that dangerous and unlawful practice ; if an old woman chanced to have her petticoat singed by the explosion of an ascotch , an ordinance was straightway fulminated against these pestilent fireworks ; and so on till the urchins of the village were gradually so hemmed in by laws , that , if they had paid any attention to these enactments , the little rogues would hardly have had an amusement or a play that was not unlawful . 
Towards sunset , the Heer , who had a certain mellowness about him that caused his heart to curvet and caper at the sight of human happiness , came out with honest Ludwig Varlett , who sympathised in such sports as these , to renovate his age with a sight of the lusty gambols . 
Sometimes she addressed the Heer , and at others , turning towards the sportive groups , she would apostrophize them in seeming abstraction . 
Then , turning to the Governor , she would exclaim , with earnest energy -- `` Heer ! 
Heer ! 
`` Der teufel hole dich , '' said the Heer at last ; `` What wouldst thou ? 
`` Yes -- I am the raven whose notes forebode and forewarn : when the raven croaks , let the mortal at whose windows he flutters beware ; when Bombie croaks , do thou too beware , Heer . '' 
Heer , I have warned thee , farewell . 
So saying , she slowly retired , and he saw her no more . 
The Heer pondered for a moment on her strange warnings ; but he had been so accustomed to her wild and wayward talk , that the impression soon passed away . 
He retired to rest , and was soon in his usual profound sleep , the result of good health and a good conscience . 
So saying , she hobbled up to the chamber of the Long Finne , and , shaking him till he awoke , exclaimed , `` Arise , Koningsmarke ; the wolves are approaching . 
answered he , rubbing his eyes ; `` are they abroad to night near the village ? '' 
Koningsmarke dressed himself hastily , seized a sword and a rifle , and sallied forth to alarm the village ; while Bombie went and roused the Heer , who bestowed upon her his benediction , for thus disturbing his slumbers . 
When , however , he was assured by the Frizzled Head , who for once condescended to be explicit , that the savages were abroad , he hastily dressed himself in his cocked-hat and rusty regimentals , girded on his sword , and hastened to perform the duties of his station . 
Led on by the Rolling Thunder , the Indians assailed the gate , where fought the valiant Heer , seconded by Koningsmarke , and others of the stoutest of his people , with all the arts with which their limited modes of warfare furnished them . 
The gallant Heer , perceiving now that all was lost , and that the daylight , that was now just peering in the east , would witness the massacre of himself , his daughter , and his people , motioned to Koningsmarke to go and open the gate towards the river , prepare the boats , and embark the women and children , with all possible speed , while he himself attempted still to make good the defence of the western gate . 
`` Der teufel , '' quoth the Heer , `` go thou -- I must be the last man that deserts his post ; -- away . '' 
`` Thou , '' said the Heer ; `` remember , if any thing happens to me , I leave her as my dying legacy . 
The Heer and the rest now hastily pursued their way towards the boats , leaving Koningsmarke with his two companions , to make a last stand , for the safety of their poor villagers . 
That half minute enabled Koningsmarke and his companions to gain a decisive advantage . 
They fled , pursued by some of the foremost savages , one of whom seized the queue of Lob Dotterel , who luckily wore a wig , which he left in the hands of the astonished warrior as a trophy . 
A tall Indian rushed into the water after the last boat , and seized hold of the gunwale with his left hand , grasping his tomahawk in his right . 
Koningsmarke hastened to the bow with his sword , and with a well-aimed blow cut off the hand that detained the boat . 
The Indian yelled with rage and fury , and , as the last effort of despair , seized by the side of the boat with his teeth , where he maintained his hold , till his head was severed from his body , and he fell dead into the blooddyed waters . 
But his efforts were fatal to the party in the boat , by enabling several other Indians to rush into the river and seize her at various points . 
Christina , in this moment of terror , threw her white arms around Koningsmarke , and conjured him to listen to the warning . 
Reluctantly he yielded ; the boat was drawn ashore , and the party made prisoners by the Indians , among whom appeared that likely fellow Cupid , who was now seen for the first time , during the whole of this eventful night . 
The good Heer , who was unconscious that a still heavier calamity had fallen on his aged head , viewed with silent sorrow the destruction of his little nestling place , which , in his hours of proud anticipation , he had pictured as the future capital of a vast empire , of which he would be hailed as the founder . 
But the unfortunate Heer , on discovering , for the first time , when they came to the shore , that his daughter was missing , was like one distracted . 
He ran about in an agony of sorrow , blaming every body , accusing every one of negligence , and himself most of all . 
Striking his wrinkled forehead , he cried out -- `` My daughter ! 
`` I shall die , '' replied the Heer , `` before she comes back to me ; '' and he tore his gray hairs , and would not be comforted , although aunt Edith assured him it was the Lord 's doing , and therefore it was sinful to repine . 
The day but one after the burning of the village , the Heer and his people were surprised by a visit from his old enemy , Shadrach Moneypenny , accompanied by a good number of Big Hats , in boats , bringing with them a supply of food , boards , timber , and other necessaries , together with mechanics to assist them in rebuilding their houses . 
Shadrach was not quite so dry and stiff as at his former visit , and when he appeared in the Heer 's presence , paid that respect to his misfortunes which he had refused to his prosperity , by coming as near to making a bow as his canons of courtesy would permit . 
`` Friend Piper , '' quoth Shadrach , and the term friend , which had formerly sounded so uncouth , was now grateful to the ear of the broken down parent -- `` Friend Piper , I come from thy neighbour William Penn , who hath heard of thy misfortune , and sent thee the little he can spare for the relief of thy people . '' 
`` Friend Piper , '' replied Shadrach , `` it may be that when our people make bargains in the way of business , they are earnest for payment ; but when they administer to the sufferings , or contribute to relieve the calamities of their fellow creatures , they expect not to be repaid in this world . 
The ancient prejudices of the Heer against his peaceable neighbours of Coaquanock now rushed to his heart , and were there buried for ever in a flood of gratitude . 
The mention of his daughter , combined with the generous gifts and never broken promises of William Penn , overpowered the old father , and he wept aloud . 
`` There is no need , friend Piper . 
The Heer stood corrected , for he remembered the sneers he had thrown out against his peaceable neighbours , the Big Hatsof Coaquanock . 
The Heer and his people long retained a grateful recollection of the kindness of the good William Penn , with the exception , however , of the Dominie and aunt Edith , who were accustomed to flout all good works , and to despise the kind offices of all , save those whom they were pleased to demominate the elect . 
He often debated whether it would not be better to attempt returning to Elsingburgh with a view to apprise the Heer of his daughter 's situation , in order that measures might be taken to ransom her ; but the fear that the savages might perhaps revenge his desertion by the sacrifice of his fellow prisoners , deterred him from putting this project into execution . 
In the intervals of his labours , and in the evening , the Long Finne , when he had become sufficiently acquainted with the Indian language , was amused with the conversation of an aged Indian warrior , the father of his mistress , who resided in the family . 
`` William Penn hath learned , by means of the -LRB- I may say -RRB- providential agency of a certain profane tie-wig , -LRB- which , judging from the bald pate of yon captive , must have appertained unto him , -RRB- that the people , -LRB- meaning thee , -RRB- calling themselves -LRB- as I may say , idly and profanely , -RRB- the Muskrats and Mud-Turtles , are in possession of certain two white-men -LRB- who , I am inclined to believe , must be those tied to the stake close by , -RRB- together , with a young maiden , daughter to him who calleth himself the Heer Piper , -LRB- who I must aver to be somewhat of an uncourteous little man , -RRB- all three carried away captives from the village of Elsingburgh . 
While the disconsolate Heer , to whom she was indebted for an asylum , a home , and all the comforts of life , was sitting in solitary sorrow , remembering and lamenting his gentle and affectionate child , without a soul to sympathize in his cureless grief , the excellent Edith , considering him as little better than one of the wicked , paid no attention to his infirmities or his woes , except occasionally to comfort him with the assurance that the loss of his only child was a judgment upon him , for loving her better than the church and the Dominie . 
But so sure as aunt Edith heard of this , though ever so sick and weak , she would rise from her bed , as it were by miracle , lay violent hands on the portion of the good Heer , who fared , on these occasions like poor Esau , and carry it off to comfort Dominie Kanttwell , or some one of the elect who had caught cold attending upon a night meeting . 
Allthis while the poor Heer remained without a hope , without a comforter , his mind ever running on the blue-eyed maiden he had , peradventure , lost for ever . 
The judgment which , according to aunt Edith 's theory , had fallen upon his head , for the punishment of his sinful delights in contemplating the mild virtues and gentle , unobtrusive charms of his duteous , affectionate daughter , seemed only to bind him more closely to the earth , for he could think of naught but her . 
Thus the good Heer now never was seen to smoke his pipe at morn or evening , or heard to swear in classic High Dutch , sure evidences that his heart was almost broken . 
His sole employment was in doing nothing , although he was incapable of sitting still more than a minute at a time . 
Like Bombie of the Frizzled Head , he wandered and wandered about , seeming without purpose , or even consciousness , until some sound , some object , some nothing , as it would seem , struck upon one of those chords by which every thing that is beautiful or sweet in nature is connected with the memory of those we love , and have lost . 
Then his trembling lip , and wan , wet eye , bore testimony , that the light still continued to burn , though the lamp which held it seemed quite broken to pieces . 
He no longer took an interest in the affairs of his government , which now fell into the hands of master Wolfgang Langfanger , who thereupon took his full swing of public improvements . 
`` Well , well , '' impatiently rejoined the Heer ; `` I suppose you do ; most people can say that of themselves . 
`` There -- perhaps , '' replied the Frizzled Head , pointing her horn-headed stick towards the blue sky , that was studded with stars , among which the new crescent of the moon held its course , like a bark of pearl in a sea of azure -- `` there , where the purified spirit finds its last serene abode -- or '' -- dropping her stick to point to the earth -- `` there , where '' -- `` Away , thou screeching day-owl , '' interrupted the Heer ; `` blasted be the heart that conceived , the breath that shall utter such a prophecy ! 
she was pure as the flake of snow in its midway flight from the heavens , ere it reaches this contaminated earth ; she was '' -- `` Ay , Heer , she was -- and which of us , in looking back , can not put our finger on the point of time when we too were innocent ? 
Months have passed away , since thy daughter left thee , but in less time than that , according to thy book of faith , the angels lost their place in heaven ; a third part of the stars that glittered around the throne of Him who made us all , black , red , and white , alike , tumbled to the earth -- ay , lower than the earth -- into the bottomless gulf ; he who was called the Son of the Morning , fell among the rest , and foremost of them all . 
`` Pestilent imp of darkness , seed of sulphur , scourge of my blasted hopes , torturer of my broken heart , '' cried the Heer , `` be silent , or tell me what thou really knowest of my lost child . '' 
reiterated the Heer , who , in the weakness of sorrow , sought to wring from the Frizzled Head , even what he would not dare to believe when it was uttered . 
burst forth the almost maddened Heer ; `` hence , wholesale dealer in the devil 's haberdashery ; away ! 
This was the first time the Heer had relapsed into High Dutch since the loss of Christina , and , if the truth were known , it is believed the Frizzled Head purposely provoked him in this manner , that he might sometimes forget his daughter in rage against his slave . 
Aftera conversation similar to that recorded in the last chapter , the Heer seated himself disconsolately in his old arm chair , and was silently and sorrowfully contemplating a picture , representing his little daughter Christina , then about a year old , nestling on the bosom of her mother , now no more . 
As a specimen of art the picture was not worth a stiver ; but the Heer would not have parted with it for the whole wealth of his territory , for it was almost the only memorial , save that which he carried in his old broken heart , of the two beings he had loved better than all the world besides . 
While thus seated , the good Heer communed with his heart , in something like the following soliloquy : `` Ah ! 
As the Heer thus indulged himself in melancholy ponderings , his attention was called off by a distant noise , that came to his ear like the shouts of joyful exultation . 
He listened , but again all was silent . 
What can it mean thought he . 
But the thought was only momentary , and he sunk into his usual train of dark and dismal contemplation . 
Nearer , and still nearer , came the rout , until at length the attention of the Heer was roused by something which struck upon his heart like a repetition of Christina 's name . 
He started up , and , hurrying with faltering steps to the window , beheld , a little way off , a crowd of people , in the midst of which seemed to be a tall , stately figure , mounted on horseback , with something that looked like a woman seated behind him . 
The waning lamp of his aged eyes would not permit him to distinguish any more . 
Yet -- and the hope glanced upon his heart like lightning -- yet , if it should be her , returning at last to his arms ! 
From one or both these causes , the good Heer , instead of going forth to learn the truth , returned trembling to his chair and there sat waiting , almost in a state of insensibility , the approach of the crowd . 
exclaimed a voice that went to the innermost soul of the Heer , who sat riveted to his chair , without the power of speech or motion . 
A moment after , a figure rushed in and threw herself at his feet , kissed his hands , and wept upon them . 
The Heer pressed her hand , in token that he had not forgotten his daughter , but it was some minutes before he became sufficiently recovered to take her to his bosom , weep over , and bless her . 
When he did , the scene was so moving , that the spectators shed tears of sympathy ; and even the dry and parched cheeks of Shadrach Moneypenny exhibited indications of moisture . 
answered the Heer , wiping his eyes and looking round . 
The stiff and upright form of Shadrach Moneypenny now advanced with measured steps towards the Heer , who , on perceiving it approaching , started up , and hugged Shadrach , with such good will , that the head of the Governor actually dislodged the hat of the other , and it fell to the floor . 
Shadrach stooped down with great deliberation , and , picking up the hat , placed it on his head and said -- `` Take notice , friend Piper , I pulled not off mine own hat , in reference to thy dignity , or that of thy master , the bloody-minded man who carrieth the gospel of peace upon the incarnadined point of his sword . 
`` Be it so , '' returned the Heer ; `` thou shalt wear thy beaver in the presence of kings , nay , of the King of kings , if thou likest , my noble benefactor , to whom I owe more than I can ever pay . '' 
`` I am not thy benefactor , friend Piper , '' quoth Shadrach , `` and thou owest me no more than that good will which we are enjoined to bear towards all our neighbours . 
`` Well , then , '' replied the Heer , `` I shall bethink myself of some means worthily and magnificently to reward both the good William Penn and all those who have been the instruments of his benevolence in the redemption of my dear child , whose return to my bosom is as the warmth of spring to the torpid animals of the forest . '' 
`` Well , but , der teufel , '' replied the Heer , a rittle ruffled -- `` Swear not at all , '' interrupted Shadrach -- `` friend Piper , swear not at all . 
At any other time , this sally of Shadrach would have brought the wrath of the Heer upon him , in a great tempest of expletives ; but now he had got his daughter 's hand in his , while she herself was seated on the little stool , which whilome supported his gouty foot , and felt so happy at the moment , that he had neither room nor words for any other feeling . 
`` Say , then , '' said he at length , in reply to Shadrach 's exhortation -- `` say that I will come myself , and thank him for having restored to me my child ; and think to thyself that I will never forget thy good offices . '' 
Farewell , friend Piper -- swear not at all . '' 
WhenShadrach Moneypenny had gathered himself together , and departed for Coaquanock , the Heer and his little party , being left alone , drew into a circle , and began to compare notes one with another . 
The happy Heer , seated between his daughter and the Long Finne , holding a hand of the former , questioned , and answered , and listened , and talked , like a boy ; for the return of his darling had made him feel young again . 
The worthy Dominie Kanttwell , too , was either engaged , or pretended to be so , and came not to congratulate the Heer on the return of his only child from captivity among the wild men of the woods . 
Indeed , it was shrewdly suspected , that the good man , as well as aunt Edith , were both somewhat mortified at the failure of their favourite doctrine of temporal judgments , on this occasion , as exemplified in the happy return of Christina ; and there were those who did not scruple to insinuate , that the Dominie was sorely wounded in spirit , at the downfall of a plan for benefiting the church , which depended on the absence of the fair Christina , and a certain alteration in the Heer 's will , which he did not despair of bringing about in time . 
cried the Heer , as Koningsmarke related the manner in which he had cheated the savages of their bloody feast -- `` ah ! 
But now , '' continued the Heer , addressing himself to Koningsmarke -- `` now tell me about thyself . 
Thy hand is not so soft nor so white as it used to be , my daughter , '' said he , as he pressed it tenderly in his own . 
The Heer alternately laughed and wept . 
Christina , however , for some reason or other , which , as she did not avow , we should hold ourselves guilty of betraying her confidence if we disclosed , did not second this motion , and the good Heer was too happy to notice her apparent indifference to her adopted sister . 
`` And now , '' exclaimed the Heer , when they had finished the relation of their adventures -- `` and now , Koningsmarke , my dear son , for such thou hast been to me , tell me how I may best reward thee , for having saved the life of my child , and oftentimes watched over her safety in the desolate wilderness . 
Koningsmarke replied not , but shook his head , looked at Christina , and sighed . 
said the good Heer , answering his look and shake of the head , `` No ? 
But remember , I am at least thy debtor for a handful of Mark Newby 's halfpence , '' added he , smiling . 
The Long Finne again shook his head , and was silent . 
`` What , then , du galgen schivenkel , '' exclaimed the Heer , waxing wroth apace -- `` what ! 
Koningsmarke dropped on his knee , and , taking the hand of Christina , pressed it to his lips and his heart . 
Heer -- if she owes her life to me , as well as to thee -- if I have watched , and toiled , and fought for her -- if I have borne her in my arms , when her own limbs refused to support her , through the irksome wilderness -- if I have been to her as a brother , to you as a son -- think what I could wish -- not what I ask , or deserve as a recompense -- the only recompense you can bestow , or I accept . '' 
`` Not rob thee , Heer ; I would wish to double the blessing , by adding to the solace of a daughter 's tender ministry , the support of a duteous , grateful son . '' 
If a young woman can possibly be brought to say yes , to such a question as that of the Heer , it must be when she is alone with the person that asks it , unless we are mistaken in our recollection of the pure and delicate Dan Cupid , that whilome used to fan the flame of love in female hearts . 
`` Well , '' said the Heer , silence gives consent . 
`` This day shall be kept as the happiest of my life , '' cried the Heer . 
I , that know what thou , Heer , knowest not -- I , that have seen what thou didst not see , I tell thee , Heer , I tell thee , weak maiden , and , '' holding up her withered finger in scorn , to Koningsmarke , `` I tell thee , that rather than this accursed marriage shall take place , I will say what shall blast thy purpose and send thee wandering again to another new world , if such there be . 
answered the Heer , `` avaunt , fly , skip -- herald of wrath and abomination ! 
Heer , why do I take an interest in the prosperity of thy household ? 
`` The yellow plague sieze thee , thou incomprehensible riddle of darkness , '' cried the Heer . 
`` Heer ! 
Heer ! 
Thou shalt invoke death , but he will not come ; thou shalt seek the grave , but it will not open to thee ; thou shalt live , despairing , until thy legs shall refuse to carry thee , thy hands to lift themselves to thy head , and thy mind and body become those of the helpless infant . '' 
The Heer raved in agony . 
`` Well , master constable , '' quoth the Heer , as Lob entered with Cupid in custody , `` what is the matter now ? 
I say , '' cried the Heer , in a voice of unequalled authority ; `` silence ! 
`` I will not be silent , '' quoth the Snow Ball ; `` I will speak , Heer , for it is the only right reserved by our unhappy race . 
Heer ! 
Heer ! 
`` Had it been any thing but this , '' rejoined the Heer , who , stout-hearted as he was , could not help feeling , he might not exactly tell how , at these mysterious denunciations -- `` had it been any lesser offence , I would have pardoned it , and offered up my forgiveness at the shrine of this happy day . 
Dost thou tell me , Heer , that innocence is a surety against condemnation and punishment in this world ? 
I , that have seen the finger of scorn pointing at an innocent child , not for its own guilt , but the guilt of its parents -- I , that have seen the strong giant , wickedness , bestriding the world , and crushing the unoffending helpless beneath him -- I , that have seen innocent hearts broken asunder , by being made to bear the burthen and the shame of others ' crimes -- I , that have every where beheld the seeds of good reaped by the wicked , and the seeds of evil gathered by the virtuous man -- I ! 
Had I not forgot to laugh , long , many long years ago , I would laugh in thy face , Heer , though my burthen in this life is to bear the heavy load of inferiority to the lowest , the meanest , the vilest of thy race . '' 
`` He shall be tried by the laws of the land , and adjudged by his neighbours , '' quoth the Heer . 
`` Had he any voice in making these laws ? 
Has he any interest or stake in that society to which he is held in subjection , and to whose welfare he is to be sacrificed ? 
He hath no neighbours ; they will sit in judgment upon him , not as beings placed on a level with a slave , sharing his feelings , his wrongs , and his resentment . 
No , Heer , that which alone gives rise to the sympathy between man and man , is when he puts himself in the place of his neighbour , and asks his heart what he would do , or feel , or suffer , if placed in his neighbour 's situation . 
`` Go thy ways , '' mildly , yet firmly replied the Heer , waving his hand for her to depart . 
But it is not alone I and mine that shall suffer ; thou and thine , Heer , will live to rue the hour when the only being that owns kindred or fellowship with me in this wide world shall be made a spectacle and a victim . 
I shall do my duty , let come what will , '' quoth the Heer , at the same time directing that a high court should be held on the morrow , for the trial of Cupid , who , in the interim , was entrusted to the care of Lob Dotterel , to be guarded with all possible vigilance . 
The party then dispersed their various ways ; and it may not be beneath the dignity of this history to record , that the good Heer , who was thus ready to brave the mysterious denunciations of Bombie , in order to further the sacred ends of justice , that night went to bed without his supper , either because he had no appetite , or , rather , as we believe , that the Frizzled Head refused to cook his favourite dish of pepperpot . 
Betimesthe next morning , the trial of the likely fellow Cupid came on in the High Court of Elsingburgh ; where presided the Heer in person , assisted by Counsellors Langfanger and Pfegel , and prompted in the mysteries of that most mysterious of all sciences , the law , by six folios of jurisprudence , each one nearly a foot thick , and containing sufficient matter to confound half the universe . 
The Heer , on the contrary , produced a book , at least two inches thicker than the other , and printed in black-letter besides , which rebutted the authority of Counsellor Langfanger 's case , and held it sound law to proceed upon the silence of a criminal , in a case of this kind , as on a confession of guilt . 
Between the condemnation of Cupid and the time appointed for his execution , the Frizzled Head employed herself in making interest with Christina , the Long Finne , and , indeed , every one whose intercession she thought might induce the Heer to mitigate the punishment of her grandson . 
But the Heer remained immovable to the solicitations of his daughter and the Long Finne . 
The day before the execution Bombie essayed , for the last time , to move the Heer in behalf of her grandson . 
`` As surely as to-morrow shall come , so sure as the sun shall rise , even so surely shall he never live to see it go down , '' replied the Heer . 
Thou hast forgotten all this , Heer ! '' 
`` Say not so , '' rejoined the Heer , `` for so it is not . 
`` If the risk of sparing him were mine alone , '' said the Heer , `` I would not hesitate ; but I am not acting for myself . 
But , once more -- once more , and for the last time , art thou resolved , Heer ? '' 
`` As I live , I swear that , so far as rests with me , he shall pay the forfeit of his dark and malignant crime , before mid-day to-morrow . 
`` Then thus may it be with thy petitions , now , henceforth , and for ever more , whether addressed to thy fellow creatures , or to Him who made us all . 
If thou callest for sympathy , mayst thou meet with scorn ; if thou askest for kindness , mayst thou be answered with the bitterness of contumely ; if thou criest out for bread , mayst thou receive a stone ; and if , in the last hour of thy existence , struggling between life and death , time and eternity , fearing , hoping , trembling , expiring , thou shalt address thy last prayer for pardon to the throne of thy Maker , may he turn a deaf ear , as thou hast done to mine . '' 
So saying , she departed from the presence of the Heer , and took her way through the village , stopping at every house , and madly calling on the inhabitants to interfere , and rescue her grandson from what she called the tyranny of the Governor . 
Yet such is the apparent inconsistency of human nature , that there was not a soul in the whole village , except the Heer 's family , that was capable of motion , who did not attend the execution of Cupid . 
The Heer and his party were now in imminent danger of falling victims to the fury of the moment . 
But the Rolling Thunderarose , and , waving his hand for silence , spoke as follows : -- `` Red-men ! 
I here extinguish the pipe of peace ; I break the belt of wampum , that was the symbol of our being friends , and dig up the buried Thereader may chance to recollect the oath of Governor Piper , that , notwithstanding the opposition of the mysterious Bombie , the Long Finne and the fair Christina should be wedded on the morrow . 
The Heer , in truth , had been too busy all this while to attend to his own private affairs . 
The king of England , Charles the Second , being one day informed that Cornelius De Witt had caused to be painted a great picture , or rather an `` abusive picture , '' as his majesty was pleased to call it , representing the said De Witt , with the attributes of a conqueror in a naval fight with England , fell into a bad humour , and determined to go to war with the Dutch . 
In this complicated state of affairs , it was plain , that the right of the strongest was worth all the rest of these rights put together ; and that , consequently , the power of the good Heer rested on a rather ticklish foundation . 
Several messages had passed between him and Governor Lovelace , of New-York , who , about this time , signified to the Heer , that unless he agreed to a surrender upon terms , he should in a few months send a power adequate to force a surrender without any terms at all . 
Governor Piper had received sufficient information from New-York , to satisfy him that his power was totally incompetent to resist the puissance of Governor Lovelace , and that he had nothing to do but surrender at discretion , whenever the summons was given . 
These public perplexities naturally drew off the attention of Governor Piper from the affairs of his daughter , who , on her part , however , although she had consented to become the wife of Koningsmarke , still discovered an insurmountable objection , in her behaviour , actually to commit matrimony with that youth . 
We call him a youth , on account of his being so much younger than ourselves , although , in truth , he was not much under thirty years of age , notwithstanding he looked younger . 
The anticipation of her union with Koningsmarke afforded her no pleasure , and she seized every pretext to elude or put aside his solicitations to fulfil her own promise , and the wishes of her father . 
Governor Lovelace , soon after being quietly settled in his government , despatched a summons to the Heer Piper , to surrender his town and fort of Elsingburgh forthwith `` to the obedience of his Majesty King Charles the Second , '' & c . 
The Heer declined the invitation , inasmuch as King Charles and his master were at peace , and he had no inclination whatever to disturb the harmony that reigned between them . 
Anticipating , however , that this summons would be followed by a visit , Governor Piper despatched the Long Finne and a party with presents to the neighbouring Indians , willing them to take arms in his favour . 
In addition to this , the Heer fell into a violent bustle , and incontinently busied himself for several days in doing nothing , as is customary with people who talk a great deal and swear roundly . 
Lob Dotterel wanted to call out the posse comitatus , and take these intruders into custody , but his ardour was restrained by the Heer , who anticipated , with exceeding low spirits , the speedy termination of the Sweedish dynasty in this new hemisphere . 
He felt his greatness tottering , and undoubtedly soliloquized on the slippery nature of human power , after the manner of Cardinal Wolsey , and other great men . 
Sir Robert Carre was a man of few words , which peculiarity rendered him particularly disagreeable to the Heer , who liked very much to talk a great deal before he came to a decision . 
Governor Piper comprehended , pretty clearly , that he must positively comply with this request , or demand , because the hostile force was amply sufficient to level his town and fort to the dust in two hours at farthest . 
quoth the Heer , `` that is not time enough to decide which side of the mouth I shall smoke my pipe this morning , much less to settle about the surrender of a whole province . '' 
replied the Heer . 
`` Well , well , '' quoth the Heer , with a long and deep-drawn sigh , `` if I could keep it from thee , I would bury thee , thy comrades , thy Governor , and thy King , in the sand of this good river , ere I would give up my sword . 
So saying , the Heer delivered up his trusty blade ; and thus the dominion of New Swedeland passed from the superintendence of the Heer Piper forever . 
The good Heer was sorely perplexed , and could not help reverting to those suspicions which had arisen in his mind on the first appearance of the Long Finne , as related in the early part of this history . 
Three weeks had now nearly elapsed , since the total subversion of the authority of the Heer , and the mysterious disappearance of the Long Finne . 
It was only the Heer and his gentle daughter , on whom this wave of ill fortune had especially expended its violence . 
The former not only felt his diminished consequence , but now actually experienced what may be truly called one of the greatest misfortunes incident to human nature . 
Being restricted from all participation in the new government , he knew not what to do with himself , and was at length reduced to the necessity of taking two naps extra , to assist him in getting through the livelong , tedious day . 
It was soon communicated to the Heer Piper and his fair daughter , that the Long Finne had been carried a prisoner to New-York , and condemned to be whipt , and sold to slavery . 
The pedler was called up , and stated , that the youth had been seized the night before the sailing of the fleet , as he was taking a solitary walk along the river side ; conveyed on board the ships ; transported to New-York ; tried for treasonable practices ; condemned , and sentenced to these ignominious punishments . 
said the Heer . 
answered the Heer , with affectionate sympathy ; `` it must be impossible , if I refuse it to thee . 
Christina looked wistfully in his face , and replied -- `` Hesaved my life ; he bore me in his arms , as a mother her only offspring ; he watched over me in the wilderness ; he risked death and torture in the attempt to restore me to thee ; and shall not I do something to requite all these obligations ? '' 
When it was known that the Heer and his daughter were going to undertake this long journey , part of which was through a forest , as yet trodden only by wild beasts and red-men , with now and then a wandering being like Low-right , half a dozen of the villagers came in a body , and offered their services to escort their ancient chief and his daughter . 
The Heer was affected by their good will , and , shaking the hand of each , accepted their offers , with hearty thanks . 
Even in the depression of his feelings , and amid the downfall of his power , the heart of the Heer swelled with honest pride , to find that , though the means of bestowing benefits on his neighbours had passed away , they still remembered his kindness in the days of his prosperity . 
Christina and the good Heer , when fatigued with walking , or when the way was more than commonly rough , or obstructed , were carried by their faithful escort on a litter of boughs ; and when they came to a stream that was not fordable , they launched their light canoe , and paddled to the other side . 
But the attention of the good Heer and his daughter was concentrated on one idea , and they remained unmoved by the fair succession of objects that passed rapidly before their eyes , until they opened upon the delightful bay , and city , which seemed rising from its capacious bosom . 
Passing , at length , by the door of a comfortable looking mansion , the ears of the good Heer and his daughter were saluted with some lines of an old ballad , which was familiar to their recollection , chanted by a voice that seemed like one they had heard somewhere before . 
exclaimed the Heer , involuntarily ; `` if it was not quite impossible , I should think I heard our old neighbour , Wolvert Spangler , singing one of his ditties . '' 
The moment honest Wolvert saw the old man and his daughter , he recognised them , and ran and took the hands of the Heer , and shook them cordially , with tears of joyful welcome . 
`` My old master , '' cried he , at last , `` it makes my heart glad to see thee . 
`` In good sooth , Wolvert , '' quoth the Heer , `` thy welcome is well timed , and grateful to our hearts as our necessities . 
Come forth , dame , '' cried he ; `` thou hast not forgot the kindness of my benefactress , to me and mine , when I had neither house nor home . 
`` We will accept thine offers frankly , '' said the Heer , `` not only because we know not whither else to go , but most especially , that thy welcome seems to be truly and sincerely tendered . '' 
`` Else may one of the heaviest of Dominie Kanttwell 's judgments befall me and mine -- my house and all within it , '' quoth honest Wolvert , as he showed the father and daughter into his comfortable little parlour , the floor of which was sprinkled with sand from the sea shore , as white as the driven snow . 
After partaking of some refreshments , which were pressed upon them with genuine , honest earnestness , the Heer , whose heart was scarce ever so shut up but that good cheer warmed and expanded it into something like honest jollity , addressed his host as follows : `` Neighbour Spangler , I am glad , for thy sake as well as my own , that thou seemest so comfortably settled , and seemingly , therewithal , so well to do in the world . 
Not only this , Heer , but Governor Lovelace has lately made me one of his five Aldermen , and consults me on all great occasions of state , because , as he is pleased to observe , I always agree with him in opinion , which is a proof of my being a person of sound discretion . 
The Heer pondered a few moments on this piece of biography , and then addressed himself to Alderman Spangler , in an anxious tone , and with a hesitating manner , as if afraid of hearing a reply to his questions . 
asked the Heer . 
`` Thou hadst better retire with our kind hostess , my daughter , '' said the Heer , addressing Christina , whose emotions almost shook her frame to dissolution , as the thought crossed her mind that it was now too late to save poor Koningsmarke , at least from disgrace . 
`` If God will so help me as to succeed , it shall be so , '' replied he . 
Soon as the hour at which the Governor usually finished his breakfast arrived , the kind-hearted Spangler went forth to solicit an immediate interview for the Heer and his daughter . 
His excellency happened to be in high good humour that morning , having just heard some news from England , which gave him particular satisfaction , but which , having no especial reference to our history , we shall pass over just now . 
Well , I shall put on my regimentals , and you shall go and bring the old Heer and his daughter hither . '' 
After a moment 's embarrassment , Christina said to the Heer : -- `` Father , the hour draws nigh , each moment is precious . '' 
The Heer , then , in a firm , manly , and feeling manner , required the pardon and enfranchisement of the young Swede called Koningsmarke , who in all that he had done , had acted under his orders , as lawful and unquestionable representative of the king of Sweden , then possessed of , and exercising jurisdiction over the territory of Elsingburgh . 
`` The laws of God , '' replied the Heer , `` authorize the means of self-defence at least ; and the practice of thy nation , as well as of all the first adventurers in this new world , hath been to enlist the savages in their wars with each other . 
`` That is impossible , '' replied the Heer , `` because he was with me during the whole period of the negotiation , and also that which followed the surrender of my power , until the evening preceding the departure of the fleet , when , as I understand , he was kidnapped and forcibly carried away by the agents of Sir Robert Carre . 
`` The galgen schivenkel , '' exclaimed the Heer ; `` the Long Finne shall cut off his ears , and a slice of the Dominie 's tongue , if he ever lives to get back to Elsingburgh ; and if he does not , I will live a little while longer , if it be only to do that good turn to a youth whom I loved as my own son . '' 
`` The word , or , if thou so pleasest , the oath , of a man of honour , '' quoth the Heer . 
`` Come , come , '' cried the Heer , who now for the first time found the use of his eyes and tongue -- `` come , come , you young fools , do n't stand here talking and crying before these rough and tough-hearted knaves , who , I see , do n't know whether to laugh or cry . 
`` Well , then , let us depart , in God 's name , '' quoth the Heer to his young companions . 
`` And here is something to make merry with , boys , '' throwing a hand full of rix-dollars among the men of bolts and bars , who greeted him with cheers , as he departed , and took coach for the Governor 's . 
`` And I , '' rejoined his Excellency , `` hereby covenant to forgive myself , and all my enemies , on one condition ; which is no other than that , as I perceive with sufficient clearness this young couple contemplate joining their fates together ere long , thou , Governor Piper , wilt lay thy commands upon them to honour my house with the ceremony , and therewithal charge them , upon pain of forfeiting thy blessing , to permit me the pleasure of giving away a lady , whom , if I were a young man , as I once was , I would dispute the possession of with Guy of Warwick himself . 
`` I say , '' replied the Heer , `` yea , I swear , that it must , and shall be so , or I will withdraw my consent in favour of the backbiter Othman Pfegel , whom I do contemplate to beat lustily on my return . 
Governor Lovelace now drew the Heer aside , and whispered him , `` come with me , and let us leave them together -- I dare swear the matter will be settled to our satisfaction ; '' and thereupon the two old gentlemen left the room together . 
For this purpose it will be necessary to go back to the period when the Heer Piper resided in Finland , with his wife , a timid , gentle being , their daughter Christina , and the Frizzled Head , then to all appearance , as old as on the day she died . 
One summer evening , in the absence of the Heer , as Christina , then a little girl of about six years old , and her mother , were sitting , just about the twilight , in a little low parlour , whose open windows looked out on a charming rural landscape , tinted with the soft , enchanting , changeful hues of evening , on a sudden they were broken in upon by a party of ruffians , armed , and apparently half mad with liquor , who rudely seized both mother and daughter , and , by way of a good joke , frightened them almost into convulsions . 
Suffice it to say , that he was left , by the death of his father , an extravagant daring adventurer , without money , or the means of subsistence : that , not long afterwards , when his mother died in great distress , she gave him a letter to her brother , the Heer 's old friend , Caspar Steinmets , who received him as a son , and with whom he lived for some time . 
He was little aware that this territory was governed by the Heer Piper , whose house , when a boy , he had entered in the manner aforesaid ; and , indeed , he had long since forgotten the whole affair , as we forget our boyish frolics when arrived at the age of manhood . 
He took the first opportunity of embarking for the new world ; arrived at the Hoarkill ; proceeded to Elsingburgh ; where he fell into the custody of that vigilant police officer , Lob Dotterel , and was recognised by Bombie , who accidentally discovered the scar , which , as rather unbecoming to his appearance , he generally hid with a high ruff . 
Koningsmarke , at the conclusion of this explanation , solemnly assured Christina that every word of it was true ; that he had extenuated nothing ; and that , any farther than hath been just related , he had no participation in an event which he had first learned from the Frizzled Head , on his arrival at Elsingburgh , but in a manner so mysterious and exaggerated , as almost convinced him he was actually a murderer . 
`` Well , '' quoth the Heer , `` are we to be united to-morrow , never to part , or to part , never to meet again ? '' 
`` Well , then , '' quoth the Heer , `` to-morrow shall see thee one . '' 
`` Nay , let it be the day after to-morrow , '' rejoined Governor Lovelace : `` I must have time to bid the company , and , ` fore Heaven , Heer ! 
Truth , our governing principle in this history , obliges us to state , that Governor Lovelace , the Heer Piper , Alderman Spangler , and one or two others , did carouse it lustily till the second crowing of the cock , when the Governor 's old black valet entered the room , and informed his Excellency that it was high time to go to bed , an intimation which he never failed to attend to with perfect docility . 
The day but one after the wedding , the Heer , his daughter , and the Long Finne , bade the worthy Cavalier Lovelace farewell , and embarked in his state barge , for Elizabeth-Town Point , where they took up their line of march , and arrived in due time , without any accident , at Elsingburgh . 
But the Heer and his daughter could never agree on the subject of rural economy . 
Christina was for planting flowers , and ornamental shrubs , and beautifying all around ; while the Heer had a most pestilent propensity for the useful , and valued a patch of cabbages above a bed of tulips of a thousand dies . 
Christina at length succeeded so far as to make him promise to pay some little attention to ornament , and cultivate a few favourite flowers , which engagement he conscientiously kept , by planting a notable bed of cauliflowers . 
In process of time the good Heer saw his race prolonged , in the person of a little blue-eyed grandson , concerning whom he balanced three whole days , in sore perplexity , whether to call him after the immortal Gustavus , or his good friend the Governor of New-York . 
The Heer privately covenanted with himself , at the same time , that the next should be called Gustavus Adolphus , let what would happen . 
Lob Dotterel being , by the influence of the Heer with Governor Lovelace , reinstated in his office of High Constable , passed the rest of his days in busy importance , and happy assiduity , only that he was ocasionally molested by the intrusion of the ghost of Bombie of the Frizzled Head , which never forgave his agency in the catastrophe of the likely fellow Cupid . 
