Of the one son , Phineas , the hero of the following pages , the mother and five sisters were very proud . 
Phineas had come to be a swan in the estimation of his mother and sisters by reason of certain early successes at college . 
His father , whose religion was not of that bitter kind in which we in England are apt to suppose that all the Irish Roman Catholics indulge , had sent his son to Trinity ; and there were some in the neighbourhood of Killaloe , -- patients , probably , of Dr. Duggin , of Castle Connell , a learned physician who had spent a fruitless life in endeavouring to make head against Dr. Finn , -- who declared that old Finn would not be sorry if his son were to turn Protestant and go in for a fellowship . 
Our Phineas , however , did not turn Protestant up in Dublin , whatever his father 's secret wishes on that subject may have been . 
He did join a debating society , to success in which his religion was no bar ; and he there achieved a sort of distinction which was both easy and pleasant , and which , making its way down to Killaloe , assisted in engendering those ideas as to swanhood of which maternal and sisterly minds are so sweetly susceptible . 
`` Phineas is not a boy any longer , '' said Mrs. Finn . 
The doctor so far gave way , under the influence of Phineas himself , and of all the young women of the family , as to pay the usual fee to a very competent and learned gentleman in the Middle Temple , and to allow his son one hundred and fifty pounds per annum for three years . 
Dr. Finn , however , was still firm in his intention that his son should settle in Dublin , and take the Munster Circuit , -- believing that Phineas might come to want home influences and home connections , in spite of the swanhood which was attributed to him . 
Phineas eat his terms for three years , and was duly called to the Bar ; but no evidence came home as to the acquirement of any considerable amount of law lore , or even as to much law study , on the part of the young aspirant . 
Phineas himself did not boast much of his own hard work when at home during the long vacation . 
Phineas belonged to an excellent club , -- the Reform Club , -- and went into very good society . 
He was hand and glove with the Hon. Laurence Fitzgibbon , the eldest son of Lord Claddagh . 
The old doctor yielded for another year , although at the end of the second year he was called upon to pay a sum of three hundred pounds , which was then due by Phineas to creditors in London . 
When the doctor 's male friends in and about Killaloe heard that he had done so , they said that he was doting . 
He buckled to again , to the great disgust of Dr. Duggin , who at this time said very ill-natured things about young Phineas . 
At the end of the three years Phineas was called to the Bar , and immediately received a letter from his father asking minutely as to his professional intentions . 
His father recommended him to settle in Dublin , and promised the one hundred and fifty pounds for three more years , on condition that this advice was followed . 
He did not absolutely say that the allowance would be stopped if the advice were not followed , but that was plainly to be implied . 
When Phineas received his father 's letter , it had just been suggested to him at the Reform Club that he should stand for the Irish borough of Loughshane . 
This proposition had taken Phineas Finn so much by surprise , that when first made to him by Barrington Erle it took his breath away . 
How was it possible that Phineas should stand for Loughshane ? 
It was a beautiful dream , a grand idea , lifting Phineas almost off the earth by its glory . 
When the proposition was first made to him in the smoking-room at the Reform Club by his friend Erle , he was aware that he blushed like a girl , and that he was unable at the moment to express himself plainly , -- so great was his astonishment and so great his gratification . 
said Phineas . 
Then the negotiator went on to explain that the expenses of the election would be defrayed out of a certain fund collected for such purposes , that Loughshane had been chosen as a cheap place , and that Phineas Finn had been chosen as a safe and promising young man . 
`` But I have views of my own , '' said Phineas , blushing again . 
Then the conversation was over , the private secretary went away to arrange some other little matter of the kind , and Phineas Finn was left alone to consider the proposition that had been made to him . 
In all those hot contests at the two debating clubs to which he had belonged , this had been the ambition which had moved him . 
He and three or four others who had called themselves Liberals had been pitted against four or five who had called themselves Conservatives , and night after night they had discussed some ponderous subject without any idea that one would ever persuade another , or that their talking would ever conduce to any action or to any result . 
Phineas certainly had never dared to speak , even to himself , of such a hope . 
The labours of the Bar had to be encountered before the dawn of such a hope could come to him . 
And he had gradually learned to feel that his prospects at the Bar were not as yet very promising . 
As regarded professional work he had been idle , and how then could he have a hope ? 
And now this thing , which he regarded as being of all things in the world the most honourable , had come to him all at once , and was possibly within his reach ! 
If he could believe Barrington Erle , he had only to lift up his hand , and he might be in Parliament within two months . 
For our Phineas Finn was a young man not without sense , -- not entirely a windbag . 
`` Your most affectionate son , `` Phineas Finn . '' 
The girls declared that Phineas ought , at any rate , to have his chance , and almost asserted that it would be brutal in their father to stand in their brother 's way . 
It was in vain that the doctor tried to explain that going into Parliament could not help a young barrister , whatever it might do for one thoroughly established in his profession ; that Phineas , if successful at Loughshane , would at once abandon all idea of earning any income , -- that the proposition , coming from so poor a man , was a monstrosity , -- that such an opposition to the Morris family , coming from a son of his , would be gross ingratitude to Lord Tulla . 
Nevertheless he wrote a letter strongly advising Phineas to abandon the project . 
But he himself was aware that the letter which he wrote was not one from which any success could be expected . 
He advised his son , but did not command him . 
He made no threats as to stopping his income . 
He did not tell Phineas , in so many words , that he was proposing to make an ass of himself . 
He argued very prudently against the plan , and Phineas , when he received his father 's letter , of course felt that it was tantamount to a paternal permission to proceed with the matter . 
On the next day he got a letter from his mother full of affection , full of pride , -- not exactly telling him to stand for Loughshane by all means , for Mrs. Finn was not the woman to run openly counter to her husband in any advice given by her to their son , -- but giving him every encouragement which motherly affection and motherly pride could bestow . 
Phineas , who had fallen into a sea of doubt after writing to his father , and who had demanded a week from Barrington Erle to consider the matter , was elated to positive certainty by the joint effect of the two letters from home . 
said Erle , who had too many irons in the fire to be thinking always of Loughshane and Phineas Finn , -- or who at any rate did not choose to let his anxiety on the subject be seen . 
He was under no special debt of gratitude to the lord , having given as much as he had taken in the long intercourse which had existed between them ; -- and he agreed with his son in thinking that if there was to be a Liberal candidate at Loughshane , no consideration of old pillboxes and gallipots should deter his son Phineas from standing . 
`` Then I 'll tell you what , Finn , I 'll support him . '' 
`` You support him , Lord Tulla ! '' 
`` I 've never taken much part in politics myself , as you know ; but my boy Phineas is on the other side . '' 
Before that evening was over the prospects of Phineas at Loughshane were spoken of with open enthusiasm before the doctor , and by the next day 's post a letter was written to him by Matilda , informing him that the Earl was prepared to receive him with open arms . 
`` I 'm told George Morris is n't going to stand , '' said Barrington Erle to Phineas the night before his departure . 
His brother means to support me , '' said Phineas . 
`` Not if I know it , '' said Phineas , proudly . 
When , therefore , Phineas Finn talked of measures and not men , Barrington Erle turned away in open disgust . 
Phineas went to Ireland , and walked over the course at Loughshane . 
He called upon Lord Tulla , and heard that venerable nobleman talk a great deal of nonsense . 
To tell the truth of Phineas , I must confess that he wished to talk the nonsense himself ; but the Earl would not hear him , and put him down very quickly . 
`` We wo n't discuss politics , if you please , Mr. Finn ; because , as I have already said , I am throwing aside all political considerations . '' 
Phineas , therefore , was not allowed to express his views on the government of the country in the Earl 's sitting-room at Castlemorris . 
The conference ended with an assurance on the part of Lord Tulla that if the Loughshaners chose to elect Mr. Phineas Finn he would not be in the least offended . 
The electors did elect Mr. Phineas Finn , -- perhaps for the reason given by one of the Dublin Conservative papers , which declared that it was all the fault of the Carlton Club in not sending a proper candidate . 
In the meantime , our hero , Phineas Finn , had been duly elected member of Parliament for the borough of Loughshane . 
So he pulled out of his hoard what sufficed to pay off outstanding debts , -- they were not heavy , -- and undertook to allow Phineas two hundred and fifty pounds a year as long as the session should last . 
Now , on the evening before the return of Phineas Finn , Esq. , M.P. , to London , Mrs. and Miss Flood Jones drank tea at the doctor 's house . 
`` It wo n't make a bit of change in him , '' Barbara Finn said to her friend Mary , up in some bedroom privacy before the tea-drinking ceremonies had altogether commenced . 
`` I tell you it wo n't , my dear ; he is so good and so true . '' 
`` I know he is good , Barbara ; and as for truth , there is no question about it , because he has never said a word to me that he might not say to any girl . '' 
`` He never has , then , as sure as the blessed Virgin watches over us ; -- only you do n't believe she does . '' 
`` But he never has . 
There has never been anything between me and Phineas , -- your brother I mean . '' 
He 'll go out among great people and be a great man ; and I 've already found out that there 's a certain Lady Laura Standish whom he admires very much . '' 
A girl of such appearance , so charming , was Mary Flood Jones ' of Killaloe , and our hero Phineas was not allowed to thirst in vain for a drop from the cool spring . 
When the girls went down into the drawing-room Mary was careful to go to a part of the room quite remote from Phineas , so as to seat herself between Mrs. Finn and Dr. Finn 's young partner , Mr. Elias Bodkin , from Ballinasloe . 
But in two minutes Phineas was behind her chair , and then she smiled ; and in five minutes more she had got herself so twisted round that she was sitting in a corner with Phineas and his sister Barbara ; and in two more minutes Barbara had returned to Mr. Elias Bodkin , so that Phineas and Mary were uninterrupted . 
said Phineas . 
` Mr. Phineas Finn paired off with Mr. Mildmay . ' 
She has large hands and feet , and -- '' `` Why , Phineas , you are making her out to be an ogress , and yet I know that you admire her . '' 
`` I see you are in love with her , Phineas . '' 
Phineas did not say a word further then . 
And he was not alone with Mary again till there came a moment for him to put her cloak over her shoulders in the back parlour , while Mrs. Flood Jones was finishing some important narrative to his mother . 
It was Barbara , I think , who stood in some doorway , and prevented people from passing , and so gave him the opportunity which he abused . 
`` Mary , '' said he , taking her in his arms , without a single word of love-making beyond what the reader has heard , -- `` one kiss before we part . '' 
`` No , Phineas , no ! '' 
`` Oh , Phineas , you should n't ! '' 
`` You do love her ; do n't you , Phineas ? '' 
Phineas had many serious , almost solemn thoughts on his journey towards London . 
He had , however , very carefully packed up the tress , and could bring that out for proper acts of erotic worship at seasons in which his mind might be less engaged with affairs of state than it was at present . 
Would he make a failure of this great matter which he had taken in hand ? 
He could not but tell himself that the chances were twenty to one against him . 
Now that he looked nearer at it all , the difficulties loomed larger than ever , and the rewards seemed to be less , more difficult of approach , and more evanescent . 
He had already known many members of Parliament to whom no outward respect or sign of honour was ever given by any one ; and it seemed to him , as he thought over it , that Irish members of Parliament were generally treated with more indifference than any others . 
Why should he ever be better than O ` B -- , or O ` C -- , or O 'D -- ? 
And in what way should he begin to be better ? 
He had an idea of the fashion after which it would be his duty to strive that he might excel those gentlemen . 
He did not give any of them credit for much earnestness in their country 's behalf , and he was minded to be very earnest . 
He would go to his work honestly and conscientiously , determined to do his duty as best he might , let the results to himself be what they would . 
This was a noble resolution , and might have been pleasant to him , -- had he not remembered that smile of derision which had come over his friend Erle 's face when he declared his intention of doing his duty to his country as a Liberal , and not of supporting a party . 
He knew that Erle and such men would despise him if he did not fall into the regular groove , -- and if the Barrington Erles despised him , what would then be left for him ? 
It had for two years been a feather in the cap of Phineas that he knew Laurence Fitzgibbon . 
Then Phineas was beginning to tell all the story , the wonderful story , of George Morris and the Earl of Tulla , -- how the men of Loughshane had elected him without opposition ; how he had been supported by Conservatives as well as Liberals ; -- how unanimous Loughshane had been in electing him , Phineas Finn , as its representative . 
And it was marvellous and almost painful to Phineas that his friend Fitzgibbon should accept the fact of his membership with so little of congratulation , -- with absolutely no blowing of trumpets whatever . 
Phineas was disappointed , but he took the cue from his friend too quickly to show his disappointment . 
And when , half an hour after their meeting , Fitzgibbon had to be reminded that his companion was not in the House during the last session , Phineas was able to make the remark as though he thought as little about the House as did the old-accustomed member himself . 
said Phineas , not quite understanding the meaning of the number quoted . 
As they parted at Euston Square , Phineas asked his friend some little nervous question as to the best mode of making a first entrance into the House . 
Phineas reached London early in the morning , and went home to bed for an hour or so . 
The House was to meet on that very day , and he intended to begin his parliamentary duties at once if he should find it possible to get some one to accompany him . 
He felt that he should lack courage to go down to Westminster Hall all alone , and explain to the policeman and door-keepers that he was the man who had just been elected member for Loughshane . 
Phineas did n't at all like this . 
`` I do n't think any one could have got in , '' said he , `` without knowing Lord Tulla . '' 
`` That 's about it , I suppose , '' said Phineas . 
At two punctually Phineas was in the lobby at Westminster , and then he found himself taken into the House with a crowd of other men . 
Here Phineas had lodged since he had been in London , and was a great favourite . 
`` God bless my soul , Mr. Phineas , '' said she , `` only think of your being a member of Parliament ! '' 
Mrs. Bunce really had realised the magnitude of the step which her lodger had taken , and Phineas was grateful to her . 
Phineas , in describing Lady Laura Standish to Mary Flood Jones at Killaloe , had not painted her in very glowing colours . 
Nevertheless he admired Lady Laura very much , and she was worthy of admiration . 
Lady Laura was intimate also with Barrington Erle , who was , in some distant degree , her cousin ; and Phineas was not without a suspicion that his selection for Loughshane , from out of all the young liberal candidates , may have been in some degree owing to Lady Laura 's influence with Barrington Erle . 
On the Sunday , Phineas determined that he would see Lady Laura . 
But for a few minutes before that he might probably find her alone , and he was most anxious to see whether her reception of him , as a member of Parliament , would be in any degree warmer than that of his other friends . 
Hitherto he had found no such warmth since he came to London , excepting that which had glowed in the bosom of Mrs. Bunce . 
There was a certain Lord Chiltern , the Earl 's son and heir , who did indeed live at the family town house in Portman Square ; but Lord Chiltern was a man of whom Lady Laura 's set did not often speak , and Phineas , frequently as he had been at the house , had never seen Lord Chiltern there . 
Phineas had declared at Killaloe that Lady Laura was six feet high , that she had red hair , that her figure was straggling , and that her hands and feet were large . 
Such was Lady Laura Standish ; and Phineas Finn had been untrue to himself and to his own appreciation of the lady when he had described her in disparaging terms to Mary Flood Jones . 
But , though he had spoken of Lady Laura in disparaging terms , he had so spoken of her as to make Miss Flood Jones quite understand that he thought a great deal about Lady Laura . 
And now , early on the Sunday , he made his way to Portman Square in order that he might learn whether there might be any sympathy for him there . 
Hitherto he had found none . 
Everything had been terribly dry and hard , and he had gathered as yet none of the fruit which he had expected that his good fortune would bear for him . 
It is true that he had not as yet gone among any friends , except those of his club , and men who were in the House along with him ; -- and at the club it might be that there were some who envied him his good fortune , and others who thought nothing of it because it had been theirs for years . 
Now he would try a friend who , he hoped , could sympathise ; and therefore he called in Portman Square at about half-past two on the Sunday morning . 
The hall-porter admitted as much , but evidently seemed to think that he had been disturbed from his dinner before his time . 
Phineas did not care a straw for the hall-porter . 
If Lady Laura were not kind to him , he would never trouble that hall-porter again . 
He was especially sore at this moment because a valued friend , the barrister with whom he had been reading for the last three years , had spent the best part of an hour that Sunday morning in proving to him that he had as good as ruined himself . 
`` I have inherited nothing , '' Phineas replied ; -- `` not a penny ; and I never shall . '' 
`` I am so glad you have come , Mr. Finn , '' said Lady Laura , meeting Phineas half-way across the large room . 
`` Thanks , '' said he , as he took her hand . 
`` I can tell you why , Mr. Finn . 
`` I shall be delighted , '' said Phineas , feeling , however , that he did not expect much sympathy from Lord Brentford . 
`` But , going back to my being ruined -- '' said Phineas , after a pause . 
`` There shall be no sheep-skinning , Mr. Finn . 
And his face was red , -- and , as it seemed to Phineas , his very eyes . 
That terrible apparition of the red Lord Chiltern had disturbed Phineas in the moment of his happiness as he sat listening to the kind flatteries of Lady Laura ; and though Lord Chiltern had vanished as quickly as he had appeared , there had come no return of his joy . 
Lady Laura had said some word about her brother , and Phineas had replied that he had never chanced to see Lord Chiltern . 
But Phineas cared very little what Miss Fitzgibbon said to him . 
But Phineas when he found himself out in the square thought nothing of Aspasia Fitzgibbon . 
He had gone to Lady Laura Standish for sympathy , and she had given it to him in full measure . 
She understood him and his aspirations if no one else did so on the face of the earth . 
She rejoiced in his triumph , and was not too hard to tell him that she looked forward to his success . 
It was thus , or almost thus , that she had encouraged him . 
He knew well that she had in truth meant nothing more than her words had seemed to signify . 
He did not for a moment attribute to her aught else . 
But might not he get another lesson from them ? 
He had often told himself that he was not in love with Laura Standish ; -- but why should he not now tell himself that he was in love with her ? 
But was it not the business of his life to overcome difficulties ? 
Had he not already overcome one difficulty almost as great ; and why should he be afraid of this other ? 
And this fair lady , -- for at this moment he was ready to swear that she was very fair , -- was already half won . 
She could not have taken him by the hand so warmly , and looked into his face so keenly , had she not felt for him something stronger than common friendship . 
He had turned down Baker Street from the square , and was now walking towards the Regent 's Park . 
`` So , here you are again , Mr. Finn , '' said a voice in his ear . 
But it so happened that Phineas did not know Mr. Kennedy , and consequently there was some slight form of introduction . 
`` I believe I am to meet you at dinner on Wednesday , '' -- said Phineas , -- `` at Lord Brentford 's . '' 
`` Which will be the greatest possible addition to our pleasure , '' said Phineas . 
said Miss Fitzgibbon to Phineas , -- hardly in a whisper . 
said Phineas . 
Such was Mr. Robert Kennedy , as to whom Phineas had heard that he had during the last winter entertained Lord Brentford and Lady Laura , with very many other people of note , at his place in Perthshire . 
`` I very much prefer the monkey , '' said Phineas to Miss Fitzgibbon . 
Phineas , knowing that he could gain nothing by sparring with Miss Fitzgibbon , raised his hat and took his leave . 
Going out of a narrow gate he found himself again brought into contact with Mr. Kennedy . 
Then Phineas made up his mind that Mr. Kennedy was insolent with the insolence of riches , and that he would hate Mr. Kennedy . 
Mr. Low had taken a strong liking to Phineas , as had also Mrs. Low , and the tutor had more than once told his pupil that success in his profession was certainly open to him if he would only stick to his work . 
That 's his only chance now , '' Mr. Low had said to his wife , when he found that Phineas was , as he thought , foolhardy . 
But the electors of Loughshane had not rejected Mr. Low 's pupil , and Mr. Low was now called upon to advise what Phineas should do in his present circumstances . 
But Phineas Finn was beginning at the wrong end , and Mr. Low knew that no good would come of it . 
`` Only think of your being in Parliament , Mr. Finn , '' said Mrs. Low . 
said Phineas . 
`` No ; -- you 've not disgraced yourself , Mr. Finn . 
If her husband and Phineas Finn were dining anywhere together , Phineas , who had come to them quite a boy , would walk out of the room before her husband . 
Nevertheless she helped Phineas to the nicest bit of fish she could find , and had he been ill , would have nursed him with the greatest care . 
When Phineas had last been with Mr. Low , -- on the occasion of his showing himself at his tutor 's chambers after his return from Ireland , -- he had not made up his mind so thoroughly on certain points as he had done since he had seen Lady Laura . 
`` Well , Phineas , and what do you mean to do ? '' 
But she had dropped it , when the Phineas whom she used to know became a member of Parliament . 
said Phineas . 
`` What is it you do mean , Phineas ? '' 
`` I ca n't do that , '' said Phineas , sadly . 
Phineas for awhile sat silent ; -- not that he felt himself to be without words for a reply , but that he was thinking in what fewest words he might best convey his ideas . 
Phineas , my dear fellow , as far as I have as yet been able to see the world , men do n't begin either very good or very bad . 
Then Mr. Low did listen , and Phineas explained his plan , -- saying , of course , nothing of his love for Lady Laura , but giving Mr. Low to understand that he intended to assist in turning out the existing Government and to mount up to some seat , -- a humble seat at first , -- on the Treasury bench , by the help of his exalted friends and by the use of his own gifts of eloquence . 
`` Of course , '' said Phineas , `` after the first year my time will not be fully employed , unless I succeed . 
`` If you are resolved to turn yourself against me , I must not say another word , '' said Phineas , with anger . 
`` You yourself hope to go into Parliament and join a ministry some day , '' said Phineas . 
`` I am sure that you will succeed , '' said Phineas . 
`` Phineas did not go up-stairs into Mrs. Low 's drawing-room on that evening , nor did he stay very late with Mr. Low . 
No ; -- in such case as that , -- should he resolve upon taking the advice of his old friend Mr. Low , Phineas Finn must make up his mind never to see Lady Laura Standish again ! 
Mr. Low had urged him again and again , and had prevailed so far that Phineas , before he left the house , had promised to consider that suicidal expedient of the Chiltern Hundreds . 
What a by-word he would become if he were to give up Parliament , having sat there for about a week . 
And Mr. Low had at any rate succeeded in making Phineas believe that he was right in this lesson . 
There was his profession , as to which Mr. Low assured him that success was within his reach ; and there was Parliament on the other side , as to which he knew that the chances were all against him , in spite of his advantage of a seat . 
Had it not been for the overwhelming interest of the doings in Parliament at the commencement of the session , Phineas might have perhaps abstained from attending , in spite of the charm of novelty . 
When Phineas entered Lady Laura 's drawing-room on the Wednesday before dinner , he found the other guests all assembled . 
Why men should have been earlier in keeping their dinner engagements on that day than on any other he did not understand ; but it was the fact , probably , that the great anxiety of the time made those who were at all concerned in the matter very keen to hear and to be heard . 
There were five gentlemen besides Phineas Finn himself , -- Mr. Bonteen , Mr. Kennedy , Mr. Fitzgibbon , Barrington Erle , who had been caught in spite of all that Lady Laura had said as to the difficulty of such an operation , and Lord Brentford . 
Phineas was quick to observe that every male guest was in Phineas was quick to observe that every male guest was in Parliament , and to tell himself that he would not have been there unless he also had had a seat . 
`` I hope I 've not kept you waiting , '' said Phineas . 
And how many do you say it will be , Mr. Finn ? '' 
`` Seventeen , I suppose , '' said Phineas . 
`` There is Colcleugh so ill they ca n't possibly bring him up , and young Rochester is at Vienna , and Gunning is sulking about something , and Moody has lost his eldest son . 
The remark seemed to have been addressed to Mr. Kennedy , and Phineas therefore made no reply . 
`` I think he is the most odious man that ever I set my eyes on , '' said Phineas to himself as he followed Mr. Kennedy into the dining-room . 
He had observed that Mr. Kennedy had been standing very near to Lady Laura in the drawing-room , and that Lady Laura had said a few words to him . 
As it was , Phineas and Mr. Kennedy were neighbours , but Phineas had the place of honour . 
`` I have seen enough to realise that already , '' said Phineas . 
`` Think of the momentous questions which he has been called upon to decide , '' said Phineas . 
He spoke so stoutly that everybody at the table listened to him . 
`` It 's an ill wind that blows nobody any good , Mr. Finn , '' said the Earl . 
This he said in a very mild voice , and in a tone that was intended to be expressive of doubt ; but in spite of his humility Barrington Erle flew at him almost savagely , -- as though a liberal member of the House of Commons was disgraced by so mean a spirit ; and Phineas found himself despising the man for his want of zeal . 
`` If we are to beat them , let us beat them well , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas went up into the drawing-room for a few minutes after dinner , and was eagerly desirous of saying a few more words , -- he knew not what words , -- to Lady Laura . 
Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Bonteen had left the dining-room first , and Phineas again found Mr. Kennedy standing close to Lady Laura 's shoulder . 
But could it be that such a woman as Lady Laura could accept such a man as Mr. Kennedy because of his wealth , and because of his fine place , -- a man who had not a word to throw to a dog , who did not seem to be possessed of an idea , who hardly looked like a gentleman ; -- so Phineas told himself . 
Phineas himself , it may be here said , was six feet high , and very handsome , with bright blue eyes , and brown wavy hair , and light silken beard . 
Mr. Low , however , had replied that young Finn had never shown himself to be conscious of his own personal advantages . 
I do not think that Phineas depended much as yet on his own good looks , but he felt that Mr. Kennedy ought to be despised by such a one as Lady Laura Standish , because his looks were not good . 
Phineas Finn began to feel himself to be an injured man . 
She had done it effectually in the dining-room by calling him to the seat by her side , to the express exclusion of the millionaire , and she did it again now by walking away from Mr. Kennedy to the spot on which Phineas had placed himself somewhat sulkily . 
Phineas felt that Lady Laura was in a slight degree scolding him for the disrespectful manner in which he had spoken of Mr. Kennedy ; and he felt also that he had committed himself , -- that he had shown himself to be sore , and that she had seen and understood his soreness . 
`` I do not know that I can use him , '' said Phineas ; `` but if you wish it , I will endeavour to esteem him . '' 
Then Phineas went away , and walked down to Pall Mall with Laurence Fitzgibbon . 
`` I 'm listening to every word you say , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas , though it had been past five before he went to bed , -- for there had been much triumphant talking to be done among liberal members after the division , -- was up at his breakfast at Mrs. Bunce 's lodgings by nine . 
Mr. Low hoped that he might be able to wean Phineas away from his Parliament bauble ; -- that he might induce the young barrister to give up his madness , if not this session or the next , at any rate before a third year had commenced . 
He would have many a tug for Phineas Finn before he would allow that false Westminster Satan to carry off the prey as altogether his own . 
If he could only get Phineas into the dingy chambers he might do much ! 
But Phineas had now become so imbued with the atmosphere of politics , had been so breathed upon by Lady Laura and Barrington Erle , that he could no longer endure the thought of any other life than that of a life spent among the lobbies . 
`` Yours always faithfully , `` Phineas Finn . '' 
So he told himself ; but nevertheless his mind was full of it all day ; and , though he wrote not a word of answer to Phineas , he made a reply within his own mind to every one of the arguments used in the letter . 
How can there be honour in what comes , as he says , by chance ? 
He has n't sense enough to understand that the honour comes from the mode of winning it , and from the mode of wearing it ; and that the very fact of his being member for Loughshane at this instant simply proves that Loughshane should have had no privilege to return a member ! 
In this way , before the day was over , Mr. Low became very angry , and swore to himself that he would have nothing more to say to Phineas Finn . 
But yet he found himself creating plans for encountering and conquering the parliamentary fiend who was at present so cruelly potent with his pupil . 
It was not till the third evening that he told his wife that Finn had made up his mind not to take chambers . 
Phineas , when he had written his letter to Mr. Low , started off for Lincoln 's Inn , making his way through the well-known dreary streets of Soho , and through St. Giles 's , to Long Acre . 
Phineas , during his three years ' course of reasoning on these things , had taught himself to believe that things ugly on the outside might be very beautiful within ; and had therefore come to prefer crossing Poland Street and Soho Square , and so continuing his travels by the Seven Dials and Long Acre . 
His morning walk was of a piece with his morning studies , and he took pleasure in the gloom of both . 
But now the taste of his palate had been already changed by the glare of the lamps in and about palatial Westminster , and he found that St. Giles 's was disagreeable . 
Mr. Green was welcome to the chambers as far as Phineas was concerned ; but Phineas felt nevertheless a certain amount of regret that he should have been compelled to abandon a thing which was regarded both by the porter and by Mr. Green as being so desirable . 
`` I do n't know that our Mr. Phineas will ever be like that , Jacob . '' 
Our Mr. Phineas ! 
Why should our Mr. Phineas be better than anybody else ? '' 
`` He 's always acted handsome , Jacob . '' 
`` There was one time he could not pay his lodgings for wellnigh nine months , till his governor come down with the money . 
`` He always meant honest , Jacob . '' 
The world had once or twice been almost too much for her , -- when , for instance , her husband had been ill ; and again , to tell the truth , for the last three months of that long period in which Phineas had omitted to pay his bills ; but she had kept a fine brave heart during those troubles , and could honestly swear that the children always had a bit of meat , though she herself had been occasionally without it for days together . 
At such times she would be more than ordinarily meek to Mr. Margin , and especially courteous to the old lady who lodged in her first-floor drawingroom , -- for Phineas lived up two pairs of stairs , -- and she would excuse such servility by declaring that there was no knowing how soon she might want assistance . 
She had a woman 's instinctive partiality for comeliness in a man , and was very fond of Phineas Finn because he was handsome . 
And now she was very proud of him because he was a member of Parliament . 
When Phineas had really brought distress upon her by owing her some thirty or forty pounds , she could never bring herself to be angry with him , -- because he was handsome and because he dined out with Lords . 
`` The only respectable man I know , '' said Jacob , `` is the man as earns his bread ; and Mr. Finn , as I take it , is a long way from that yet . '' 
Phineas returned to his lodgings before he went down to his club , and again told Mrs. Bunce that he had altogether made up his mind about the chambers . 
`` Of course we shall be only too proud , Mr. Finn ; and though it may n't perhaps be quite the place for a member of Parliament -- '' `` But I think it is quite the place . '' 
`` It 's very good of you to say so , Mr. Finn , and we 'll do our very best to make you comfortable . 
`` But he is rough , -- and silly , too , with his radical nonsense , paying a shilling a week to a nasty Union just for nothing . 
Still he means well , and there ai n't a man who works harder for his wife and children ; -- that I will say of him . 
But , Lord love you , Mr. Finn , when a man as is a journeyman has took up politics and joined a Trade Union , he ai n't no better than a milestone for his wife to take and talk to him . '' 
After that Phineas went down to the Reform Club , and made one of those who were buzzing there in little crowds and uttering their prophecies as to future events . 
said Phineas to his friend Fitzgibbon . 
Fitzgibbon and Phineas started together from Pall Mall for Portman Square , -- as both of them had promised to call on Lady Laura , -- but Fitzgibbon turned in at Brooks 's as they walked up St. James 's Square , and Phineas went on by himself in a cab . 
`` You should belong here , '' said Fitzgibbon as his friend entered the cab , and Phineas immediately began to feel that he would have done nothing till he could get into Brooks 's . 
Nothing , as he told himself , of political import was managed at the Reform Club . 
It might be very well to count votes at the Reform Club ; but after the votes had been counted , -- had been counted successfully , -- Brooks 's was the place , as Phineas believed , to learn at the earliest moment what would be the exact result of the success . 
He must get into Brooks 's , if it might be possible for him . 
Phineas had intended to be triumphant as he entered Lady Laura 's room . 
He was there with the express purpose of triumphing in the success of their great party , and of singing a pleasant pæan in conjunction with Lady Laura . 
But his trumpet was put out of tune at once when he saw Mr. Kennedy . 
He said hardly a word as he gave his hand to Lady Laura , -- and then afterwards to Mr. Kennedy , who chose to greet him with this show of cordiality . 
`` I hope you are satisfied , Mr. Finn , '' said Lady Laura , laughing . 
At the Reform Club there certainly had been an idea that the number might have been swelled to twenty-one ; but then , as Phineas began to understand , nothing was correctly known at the Reform Club . 
`` Mr. Kennedy must of course be right , '' said Phineas . 
`` That is the same thing , '' said Phineas , roughly . 
said Phineas . 
Phineas had at his tongue 's end all the lesson that he had been able to learn at the Reform Club . 
`` Nothing venture , nothing have , '' said Phineas . 
said Lady Laura , again smiling as she spoke to him . 
Then the objectionable Mr. Kennedy took his leave , and Phineas was left alone with Lady Laura . 
he began , as soon as he found the field to be open for himself and his own manoeuvring . 
But he was very young , and had not as yet learned the manner in which he might best advance his cause with such a woman as Lady Laura Standish . 
He was telling her too clearly that he could have no gratification in talking with her unless he could be allowed to have her all to himself . 
That might be very well if Lady Laura were in love with him , but would hardly be the way to reduce her to that condition . 
`` Mr. Finn , '' said she , smiling as she spoke , `` I am sure that you did not mean it , but you were uncourteous to my friend Mr. Kennedy . '' 
`` I should have thought it was the reverse ; -- indeed , I may say that I know that it is , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas , remembering that he had put down Mr. Kennedy 's age as forty in his own mind , frowned when he heard this , and walked about the room in displeasure . 
`` And why do you not like him , Mr. Finn ? '' 
`` Because he is one of my Dr. Fells . '' 
`` You do n't like him simply because he does not talk much . 
That may be a good reason why you should not make of him an intimate companion , -- because you like talkative people ; but it should be no ground for dislike . '' 
Phineas paused for a moment before he answered her , thinking whether or not it would be well to ask her some question which might produce from her a truth which he would not like to hear . 
Then he did ask it . 
`` And do you like him ? '' 
he said . 
`` Yes , -- I think I may say that I do like him . '' 
`` I wonder what you would say if any one asked you whether you liked me , '' said Phineas , looking away from her through the window . 
`` And I was wrong , of course , to ask it about Mr. Kennedy , '' said Phineas , looking out into the Square . 
Phineas liked being called an impetuous Irish boy , and came close to her , sitting where he could look up into her face ; and then came a smile upon his own , and he was very handsome . 
At this moment a side door was opened , and the red-haired , red-bearded man whom Phineas had seen before entered the room . 
He hesitated a moment , as though he were going to retreat again , and then began to pull about the books and toys which lay on one of the distant tables , as though he were in quest of some article . 
And he would have retreated had not Lady Laura called to him . 
`` Oswald , '' she said , `` let me introduce you to Mr. Finn . 
Mr. Finn , I do not think you have ever met my brother , Lord Chiltern . '' 
Here is Mr. Finn come to tell us who are all the possible new Prime Ministers . 
He is uncivil enough not to have named papa . '' 
`` I suppose he will at any rate be in the Cabinet , '' said Phineas . 
I do n't know whether you are in Parliament , Mr. Finn . '' 
`` He is indifferent honest , -- as yet , '' said Lady Laura . 
`` That is just what I 'm doing , '' said Phineas . 
`` Mr. Finn is such a thorough politician that he will never forgive you , '' said Lady Laura . 
`` Yes , I will , '' said Phineas , `` and I 'll convert him some day If he does come into the House , Lady Laura , I suppose he 'll come on the right side ? '' 
Phineas was engaged to dine with one of the Vice-Chancellors on the day named . 
He had never before dined at the house of this great law luminary , whose acquaintance he had made through Mr. Low , and he had thought a great deal of the occasion . 
While this was going on Lady Laura took Phineas apart for a moment . 
Phineas walked down to Westminster with his mind very full of Lady Laura and Lord Chiltern . 
As to Lord Chiltern , Phineas would do whatever might be in his power . 
All that he really knew of Lord Chiltern was that he had gambled and that he had drunk . 
During all this excitement , and through all these movements , Phineas Finn felt himself to be left more and more out in the cold . 
He had not been such a fool as to suppose that any office would be offered to him . 
He had never hinted at such a thing to his one dearly intimate friend , Lady Laura . 
He had not hitherto opened his mouth in Parliament . 
Indeed , when the new Government was formed he had not been sitting for above a fortnight . 
Of course nothing could be done for him as yet . 
But , nevertheless , he felt himself to be out in the cold . 
The very men who had discussed with him the question of the division , -- who had discussed it with him because his vote was then as good as that of any other member , -- did not care to talk to him about the distribution of places . 
He , at any rate , could not be one of them . 
He , at any rate , could not be a rival . 
He could neither mar nor assist . 
He could not be either a successful or a disappointed sympathiser , -- because he could not himself be a candidate . 
The affair which perhaps disgusted him more than anything else was the offer of an office , -- not in the Cabinet , indeed , but one supposed to confer high dignity , -- to Mr. Kennedy . 
Mr. Kennedy refused the offer , and this somewhat lessened Finn 's disgust , but the offer itself made him unhappy . 
`` I suppose it was made simply because of his money , '' he said to Fitzgibbon . 
Phineas when he said this did not as yet know exactly how it would have come to pass that such honour , -- the honour of that enduring prefix to his name , -- would have come in the way of Mr. Kennedy had Mr. Kennedy accepted the office in question ; but he was very quick to learn all these things , and , in the meantime , he rarely made any mistake about them . 
You know Orion , '' said Phineas . 
`` He holds a very proud position , '' said Phineas , ironically . 
The dinner at Moroni 's had been eaten , and Phineas had given an account of the entertainment to Lord Chiltern 's sister . 
`` I was the first there , '' said Phineas , `` and he surprised me ever so much by telling me that you had spoken to him of me before . '' 
Then Lady Laura burst out into tears , and Phineas sat near her , and consoled her , and swore that if in any way he could befriend her brother he would do so . 
Mr. Fitzgibbon at this time claimed a promise which he said that Phineas had made to him , -- that Phineas would go over with him to Mayo to assist at his re-election . 
And Phineas did go . 
The session went on very calmly after the opening battle which ousted Lord de Terrier and sent Mr. Mildmay back to the Treasury , -- so calmly that Phineas Finn was unconsciously disappointed , as lacking that excitement of contest to which he had been introduced in the first days of his parliamentary career . 
Barrington Erle , when he had first talked of sending Phineas down to Loughshane , had predicted for him all manner of parliamentary successes , and had expressed the warmest admiration of the manner in which Phineas had discussed this or that subject at the Union . 
But now no allusions whatever were made to his powers of speech , and Phineas in his modest moments began to be more amazed than ever that he should find himself seated in that chamber . 
To the forms and technicalities of parliamentary business he did give close attention , and was unremitting in his attendance . 
On one or two occasions he ventured to ask a question of the Speaker , and as the words of experience fell into his ears , he would tell himself that he was going through his education , -- that he was learning to be a working member , and perhaps to be a statesman . 
`` I declare , Laura , I think your friend Mr. Finn is in love with you , '' said Violet to Lady Laura one night . 
He is fond of me , and so am I of him . 
He is so honest , and so naive without being awkward ! 
And then he is undoubtedly clever . '' 
`` Mr. Finn certainly looks like a gentleman , '' said Lady Laura . 
`` I wonder whether he has got any money . '' 
Phineas during the summer had very often met Mr. Kennedy . 
They sat on the same side of the House , they belonged to the same club , they dined together more than once in Portman Square , and on one occasion Phineas had accepted an invitation to dinner sent to him by Mr. Kennedy himself . 
In spite , however , of all these opportunities for intimacy , now , nearly at the end of the session , Phineas had hardly spoken a dozen words to Mr. Kennedy , and really knew nothing whatsoever of the man , as one friend , -- or even as one acquaintance knows another . 
`` My Dear Mr. Finn , `` I shall have some friends at Loughlinter next month , and should be very glad if you will join us . 
`` There is nothing uncivil in not accepting a man 's invitation , '' said Phineas . 
Of course he did go . 
He was very careful in writing to be not more familiar or more civil than Mr. Kennedy had been to himself , and then he signed himself `` Yours truly , Phineas Finn . '' 
Phineas swore that he would have gone if it had been but for one hour , and if Saulsby had been twice the distance . 
And remember , Mr. Finn , we have got no grouse at Saulsby . '' 
Phineas declared that he did not care a straw for grouse . 
There was another little occurrence which happened before Phineas left London , and which was not altogether so charming as his prospects at Saulsby and Loughlinter . 
Early in August , when the session was still incomplete , he dined with Laurence Fitzgibbon at the Reform Club . 
Phineas , who really liked his friend Laurence , expressed himself very warmly in answer to this , and became affectionate , and made sundry protestations of friendship which were perfectly sincere . 
Their sincerity was tested after dinner , when Fitzgibbon , as they two were seated on a sofa in the corner of the smoking-room , asked Phineas to put his name to the back of a bill for two hundred and fifty pounds at six months ' date . 
`` But , my dear Laurence , '' said Phineas , `` two hundred and fifty pounds is a sum of money utterly beyond my reach . '' 
Then Phineas Finn with many misgivings , with much inward hatred of himself for his own weakness , did put his name on the back of the bill which Laurence Fitzgibbon had prepared for his signature . 
Upon my word , Phineas , my boy , you 're the luckiest fellow I know . 
Phineas was rather unhappy about the bill ; but there was so much that was pleasant in his cup at the present moment , that he resolved , as far as possible , to ignore the bitter of that one ingredient . 
He was a little in the dark as to two or three matters respecting these coming visits . 
He would have liked to have taken a servant with him ; but he had no servant , and felt ashamed to hire one for the occasion . 
And then he was in trouble about a gun , and the paraphernalia of shooting . 
He was not a bad shot at snipe in the bogs of county Clare , but he had never even seen a gun used in England . 
However , he bought himself a gun , -- with other paraphernalia , and took a license for himself , and then groaned over the expense to which he found that his journey would subject him . 
And at last he hired a servant for the occasion . 
He was intensely ashamed of himself when he had done so , hating himself , and telling himself that he was going to the devil headlong . 
`` Any fool could go into a lobby , '' said Phineas . 
Mrs. Bunce was delighted when she found that Phineas had hired a servant ; but Mr. Bunce predicted nothing but evil from so vain an expense . 
`` But he 's going to stay with all the lords in the Cabinet , '' said Mrs. Bunce , to whom Phineas , in his pride , had confided perhaps more than was necessary . 
Phineas found that the house was full at Saulsby , although the sojourn of the visitors would necessarily be so short . 
`` I daresay it would be very much nicer to stay here , '' said Phineas . 
Why on earth had Mr. Kennedy invited him , Phineas Finn , to meet four Cabinet Ministers and Lady Glencora Palliser ? 
It was delightful for Phineas to think that Lady Laura cared for him so deeply ; but it was not equally delightful when he remembered how very close must be the alliance between Mr. Kennedy and Lady Laura , when she was thus powerful with him . 
At Saulsby Phineas did not see much of his hostess . 
When they were making their plans for the one entire day of this visit , she said a soft word of apology to him . 
On that one day there was a great riding party made up , and Phineas found himself mounted , after luncheon , with some dozen other equestrians . 
They were now riding through a vast wood , and Phineas found himself delightfully established by the side of Violet Effingham . 
Now , if I were you , Mr. Finn , I would decline to be counted up in that way as one of Mr. Ratler 's sheep . '' 
`` I can not fancy him with a wife , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas had no idea how deep an injury he might be doing his friend by this description , nor did it once occur to him that his companion was thinking of herself as the possible wife of this Red Indian . 
Phineas resolved upon sleeping a night at Edinburgh on his way , and he found himself joined in the bands of close companionship with Mr. Ratler for the occasion . 
And Mr. Ratler was heard to declare afterwards at Loughlinter that Mr. Finn was a pleasant young man . 
It soon came to be admitted by all who knew Phineas Finn that he had a peculiar power of making himself agreeable which no one knew how to analyse or define . 
The truth , however , was , that Phineas Finn had made no study in the matter at all . 
It was simply his nature to be pleasant . 
Phineas Finn reached Loughlinter together with Mr. Ratler in a post-chaise from the neighbouring town . 
Phineas blushed as he heard all this ; but there was the impediment , not to be got rid of for the nonce , and Phineas made the best of his attendant . 
`` It 's one of those points , '' said he , `` as to which a man never quite makes up his mind . 
Loughlinter , as they approached it , seemed to Phineas to be a much finer place than Saulsby . 
said Phineas to the Treasury Secretary , as they were being driven up to the door . 
Phineas , at the moment , was thinking how far all these things which he saw , the mountains stretching everywhere around him , the castle , the lake , the river , the wealth of it all , and , more than the wealth , the nobility of the beauty , might act as temptations to Lady Laura Standish . 
If a woman were asked to have the half of all this , would it be possible that she should prefer to take the half of his nothing ? 
He thought it might be possible for a girl who would confess , or seem to confess , that love should be everything . 
Thus Phineas was arguing to himself as he was driven up to the door of Loughlinter Castle , while Mr. Ratler was eloquent on the beauty of old park trees . 
There was nobody in the house , -- at least , they found nobody ; and within half an hour Phineas was walking about the grounds by himself . 
Phineas had no letters to write , and therefore rushed down across the broad lawn to the river , of which he heard the noisy tumbling waters . 
There was something in the air which immediately filled him with high spirits ; and , in his desire to investigate the glories of the place , he forgot that he was going to dine with four Cabinet Ministers in a row . 
He soon reached the stream , and began to make his way up it through the ravine . 
`` It is wonderfully beautiful , '' said Phineas . 
`` So he is forty-three , '' said Phineas to himself , thinking how glorious it was to be only twenty-five . 
Lady Laura declared that she would go as much higher as he chose to take her , and Phineas was rather in doubt as to what it would become him to do . 
He would stay where he was , or go down , or make himself to vanish after any most acceptable fashion ; but if he were to do so abruptly it would seem as though he were attributing something special to the companionship of the other two . 
`` You may as well come on , Mr. Finn . 
Mr. Kennedy had now spoken more words than Phineas had heard to fall from his lips during the whole time that they had been acquainted with each other . 
`` There is no doubt about that , '' said Phineas . 
`` Mr. Finn will take you back in safety , I am sure , '' said he , `` and , as I am here , I 'll go up to the farm for a moment . 
Mr. Kennedy , owning that it was so , went away to his farm , and Phineas with Lady Laura returned towards the house . 
`` I should think he is an idle one , '' said Phineas . 
`` That is unpoetical , '' said Phineas . 
`` I sometimes think you despise poetry , '' said Phineas . 
`` Not so false as Byron , '' said Phineas with energy . 
`` I never knew a Mentor , '' said Phineas , `` so apt as you are to fill his Telemachus with pride . '' 
Phineas , as he was dressing , considered deeply all that Lady Laura had said to him , -- not so much with reference to the advice which she had given him , though that also was of importance , as to the fact that it had been given by her . 
She had first called herself his Mentor ; but he had accepted the name and had addressed her as her Telemachus . 
And was it possible that a female Mentor should love her Telemachus , -- should love him as Phineas desired to be loved by Lady Laura ? 
He would not say that it was impossible . 
Perhaps there had been mistakes between them ; -- a mistake in his manner of addressing her , and another in hers of addressing him . 
Had this old bachelor of forty-three been really in love with Lady Laura , would he have allowed her to walk home alone with Phineas , leaving her with some flimsy pretext of having to look at his sheep ? 
Phineas resolved that he must at any rate play out his game , -- whether he were to lose it or to win it ; and in playing it he must , if possible , drop something of that Mentor and Telemachus style of conversation . 
Phineas at once missed the grace and prettiness and cheery audacity of Violet Effingham , and felt at the same time that Violet Effingham would be out of her element at Loughlinter . 
It was at least a semi-political , or perhaps rather a semi-official gathering , and he became aware that he ought not to look simply for amusement . 
When he entered the drawing-room before dinner , Mr. Monk and Mr. Palliser , and Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Gresham , with sundry others , were standing in a wide group before the fireplace , and among them were Lady Glencora Palliser and Lady Laura and Mrs. Bonteen . 
A week passed by at Loughlinter , at the end of which Phineas found himself on terms of friendly intercourse with all the political magnates assembled in the house , but especially with Mr. Monk . 
To this Phineas assented , -- and by degrees he found himself assenting to a great many things that Mr. Monk said to him . 
Phineas , who had his eyes about him , thought that he could perceive that Mr. Palliser did not shoot a deer with Mr. Ratler , and that Mr. Gresham played no chess with Mr. Bonteen . 
Bonteen , indeed , was a noisy pushing man whom nobody seemed to like , and Phineas wondered why he should be at Loughlinter , and why he should be in office . 
His friend Laurence Fitzgibbon had indeed once endeavoured to explain this . 
Mr. Ratler no doubt was a very useful man , who thoroughly knew his business ; but yet , as it seemed to Phineas , no very great distinction was shown to Mr. Ratler at Loughlinter . 
`` Very clearly , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas liked being told that the pleasures of opposition and the pleasures of office were both open to him , -- and he liked also to be the chosen receptacle of Mr. Monk 's confidence . 
`` Nor I ; -- but , Mr. Finn , I like you all the better for making it . 
It 's so hard to find any companion for him whom he would like and whom we , -- that is I , -- should think altogether -- ; you know what I mean , Mr. Finn . '' 
`` Your wish that I should go with him is a great compliment , and I thoroughly wish that I could do it . 
The last of the ten days had now come , and Phineas was discontented and almost unhappy . 
The more he saw of Lady Laura the more he feared that it was impossible that she should become his wife . 
And yet from day to day his intimacy with her became more close . 
He had never made love to her , nor could he discover that it was possible for him to do so . 
Of course he could declare his love and ask her to be his wife on any occasion on which he might find himself to be alone with her . 
And on this morning he had made up his mind that he would do so before the day was over . 
It might be possible that she would never speak to him again ; -- that all the pleasures and ambitious hopes to which she had introduced him might be over as soon as that rash word should have been spoken ! 
But , nevertheless , he would speak it . 
It had been talked of for some day or two past , and Phineas knew that he could not escape it . 
There had been some rivalry between him and Mr. Bonteen , and there was to be a sort of match as to which of the two would kill most birds before lunch . 
`` I 'll get back somehow , '' said Phineas , who was resolved that a few miles more or less of mountain should not detain him from the prosecution of a task so vitally important to him . 
Phineas went off to the mountains , and shot his grouse , and won his match , and eat his luncheon . 
`` I should not think of shooting for money , '' said Phineas . 
`` Partly because I 'm sure I should n't hit a bird , '' said Phineas , `` and partly because I have n't got any money to lose . '' 
`` All the same , it 's a good thing to excel , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas looked at his watch , and found that it was now two o'clock . 
`` I must do it all the same , '' said he , preparing for a start . 
`` But I ca n't take you off the mountain , '' said Phineas . 
So Mr. Kennedy led the way down to Donald Bean 's cottage , and before three o'clock Phineas found himself mounted on a shaggy steed , which , in sober truth , was not much bigger than a large dog . 
`` If Mr. Kennedy is really my rival , '' said Phineas to himself , as he trotted along , `` I almost think that I am doing an unhandsome thing in taking the pony . '' 
At five o'clock he was under the portico before the front door , and there he found Lady Laura waiting for him , -- waiting for him , or at least ready for him . 
He thought that he had never seen her look so young , so pretty , and so fit to receive a lover 's vows . 
Mr. Kennedy 's grandfather had been , -- Phineas thought that he had heard that Mr. Kennedy 's grandfather had been a Scotch drover ; whereas his own grandfather had been a little squire near Ennistimon , in county Clare , and his own first cousin once removed still held the paternal acres at Finn Grove . 
Phineas had resolved that he would not speak out his mind till he found himself on that spot ; that then he would ask her to sit down , and that while she was so seated he would tell her everything . 
At the present moment he had on his head a Scotch cap with a grouse 's feather in it , and he was dressed in a velvet shooting-jacket and dark knickerbockers ; and was certainly , in this costume , as handsome a man as any woman would wish to see . 
He was , indeed , only Phineas Finn , and was known by the world to be no more ; but he looked as though he might have been anybody , -- a royal Finn himself . 
`` Then I am too late , '' said Phineas , and putting his hands into the pockets of his coat , he turned his back upon her , and walked away across the mountain . 
`` Mr. Finn , '' she said . 
`` How can I answer such a question , Mr. Finn ? 
`` And I was fool enough to think that you loved me , '' said Phineas . 
she said slowly , laying her hand gently upon his arm . 
Because Loughlinter -- '' `` Stop , Mr. Finn ; stop . 
Will that be sufficient , Mr. Finn ? '' 
Phineas had now seated himself on the exact stone on which he had wished her to sit when he proposed to tell his own story , and was looking forth upon the lake . 
It seemed to him that everything had been changed for him while he had been up there upon the mountain , and that the change had been marvellous in its nature . 
When he had been coming up , there had been apparently two alternatives before him : the glory of successful love , -- which , indeed , had seemed to him to be a most improbable result of the coming interview , -- and the despair and utter banishment attendant on disdainful rejection . 
She had almost told him that she would have loved him had she not been poor , -- that she was beginning to love him and had quenched her love , because it had become impossible to her to marry a poor man . 
In such circumstances he could not be angry with her , -- he could not quarrel with her ; he could not do other than swear to himself that he would be her friend . 
And yet he loved her better than ever ; -- and she was the promised wife of his rival ! 
she said . 
`` Tell him what you please , '' said Phineas . 
`` But I wo n't have it taken in that way , Mr. Finn . 
Your brusque want of courtesy to me I have forgiven , but I shall expect you to make up for it by the alacrity of your congratulations to him . 
Just as they were about to come out upon the open lawn , while they were still under cover of the rocks and shrubs , Phineas stopped his companion by standing before her , and then he made his farewell speech to her . 
`` Give me your hand , '' said he . 
And she gave him her hand . 
`` And I congratulate you most heartily , '' said Phineas , grasping the other 's hand . 
Phineas , as he was being carried away to the railway station , could not keep himself from speculating as to how much Kennedy knew of what had taken place during the walk up the Linter . 
Phineas Finn 's first session of Parliament was over , -- his first session with all its adventures . 
They could not imagine why Phineas had restrained himself with so much philosophy . 
But Miss Flood Jones in discussing the matter with the Miss Finns had never expressed the slightest doubt of his capacity or his judgment . 
And when tidings came , -- the tidings came in a letter from Phineas to his father , -- that he did not intend to speak that session , because speeches from a young member on his first session were thought to be inexpedient , Miss Flood Jones and the Miss Finns were quite willing to accept the wisdom of this decision , much as they might regret the effect of it . 
Mary had received from Barbara Finn certain hairs supposed to have come from the head of Phineas , and these she always wore near her own . 
And moreover , since she had seen Phineas she had refused an offer of marriage from Mr. Elias Bodkin , -- had refused it almost ignominiously , -- and when doing so had told herself that she would never be false to Phineas Finn . 
Then Mary , who was very happy at hearing such words , and who was walking in to dinner with him at the moment , could not refrain herself from pressing his arm with her little fingers . 
She knew that Phineas in his position could not marry at once ; but she would wait for him , -- oh , for ever , if he would only ask her . 
He of course was a wicked traitor to tell her that he was wont to think of her . 
But Jove smiles at lovers ' perjuries ; -- and it is well that he should do so , as such perjuries can hardly be avoided altogether in the difficult circumstances of a successful gentleman 's life . 
Phineas was a traitor , of course , but he was almost forced to be a traitor by the simple fact that Lady Laura Standish was in London , and Mary Flood Jones in Killaloe . 
He remained for nearly five months at Killaloe , and I doubt whether his time was altogether well spent . 
Some of the books recommended to him by Mr. Monk he probably did read , and was often to be found encompassed by blue books . 
We are quite aware that we have very little to offer , '' said Mrs. Flood Jones , who was not altogether happy about Mary , and who perhaps knew more about members of Parliament and blue books than Phineas Finn had supposed . 
Mary made no answer ; but she went up into her room and swore before a figure of the Virgin that she would be true to Phineas for ever and ever , in spite of her mother , in spite of all the world , -- in spite , should it be necessary , even of himself . 
About Christmas time there came a discussion between Phineas and his father about money . 
`` I hope you find you get on pretty well , '' said the doctor , who thought that he had been liberal . 
`` It 's a tight fit , '' said Phineas , -- who was less afraid of his father than he had been when he last discussed these things . 
`` Do n't think for a moment , sir , that I am complaining , '' said Phineas . 
The doctor began to make an inquiry within his own breast as to whether his son had a right to expect anything ; -- whether the time had not come in which his son should be earning his own bread . 
`` I suppose , '' he said , after a pause , `` there is no chance of your doing anything at the bar now ? '' 
Then Phineas assumed a look of injured innocence , as though his father was driving him too hard . 
`` I had intended to ask you to advance me a hundred pounds , '' said Phineas . 
He had not as yet paid for his gun , or for that velvet coat in which he had been shooting , or , most probably , for the knickerbockers . 
He knew he wanted the hundred pounds badly ; but he felt ashamed of himself in asking for it . 
If he were once in office , -- though the office were but a sorry junior lordship , -- he would repay his father instantly . 
Phineas said that he would not , and then there was no further discourse about money . 
It need hardly be said that he told his father nothing of that bill which he had endorsed for Laurence Fitzgibbon . 
At last came the time which called him again to London and the glories of London life , -- to lobbies , and the clubs , and the gossip of men in office , and the chance of promotion for himself ; to the glare of the gas-lamps , the mock anger of rival debaters , and the prospect of the Speaker 's wig . 
Phineas had received two letters during his recess at Killaloe from two women who admired him much , which , as they were both short , shall be submitted to the reader . 
`` My dear Mr. Finn , `` I write a line to tell you that our marriage is to be hurried on as quickly as possible . 
Bunce , however , received Phineas very coldly , and told his wife the same evening that as far as he could see their lodger would never turn up to be a trump in the matter of the ballot . 
Immediately on his return to town , Phineas found himself summoned to a political meeting at Mr. Mildmay 's house in St. James 's Square . 
`` I am glad of that , '' said Phineas . 
Now , in truth , Phineas had heard very little of any settled plan down at Loughlinter . 
He had played a game of chess with Mr. Gresham , and had shot a stag with Mr. Palliser , and had discussed sheep with Lord Brentford , but had hardly heard a word about politics from any one of those influential gentlemen . 
`` I heard of nothing settled , '' said Phineas ; `` but I suppose we are to have a Reform Bill . '' 
`` Nor would Gresham , or Palliser , '' said Phineas , who did not choose to bring forward his greatest gun at first . 
`` And Monk is opposed to the ballot , '' said Phineas . 
`` There 's one who would go for the ballot to-morrow , if it were brought forward stoutly , '' said Barrington Erle to Mr. Ratler a few minutes afterwards , pointing to Phineas as he spoke . 
Mr. Bonteen and Mr. Ratler had put their heads together during that last evening at Loughlinter , and had agreed that they did not think much of Phineas Finn . 
Mr. Ratler and Mr. Bonteen may have been right in making up their minds to think but little of Phineas Finn , but Barrington Erle had been quite wrong when he had said that Phineas would `` go for the ballot '' to-morrow . 
Phineas had made up his mind very strongly that he would always oppose the ballot . 
That he would hold the same opinion throughout his life , no one should pretend to say ; but in his present mood , and under the tuition which he had received from Mr. Monk , he was prepared to demonstrate , out of the House and in it , that the ballot was , as a political measure , unmanly , ineffective , and enervating . 
Enervating had been a great word with Mr. Monk , and Phineas had clung to it with admiration . 
Phineas had of course heard of such meetings before , but had never attended one . 
Phineas Finn was quite in the dark as to what would be the nature of the performance on this occasion , and entertained some idea that every gentleman present would be called upon to express individually his assent or dissent in regard to the measure proposed . 
Still Phineas did not understand whether the assent required would or would not be an individual personal assent . 
When the affair was over he found that he was disappointed , and that he might almost as well have stayed away from the meeting , -- except that he had attended at Mr. Mildmay 's bidding , and had given a silent adhesion to Mr. Mildmay 's plan of reform for that session . 
Two days after this Phineas was to dine with Mr. Monk . 
Phineas accepted the invitation as a matter of course . 
Phineas was rather inclined to believe the latter statement ; and as danger and dangerous men are always more attractive than safety and safe men , he was glad to have an opportunity of meeting Mr. Turnbull at dinner . 
Then Mr. Kennedy went , and Phineas found himself alone with Lady Laura . 
He hardly knew how to address her , and remained silent . 
He had not prepared himself for the interview as he ought to have done , and felt himself to be awkward . 
She evidently expected him to speak , and for a few seconds sat waiting for what he might say . 
said Phineas . 
Phineas thought over the proposition before he answered it , and then made the reply that he had made once before . 
And now tell me , Mr. Finn ; when are you going to charm the House ? 
He blushed , -- he knew that he blushed as he answered . 
`` I think you ought to speak , Mr. Finn . '' 
Phineas said that he certainly would . 
I am so unhappy about it all , Mr. Finn . '' 
said Phineas , knowing nothing as yet of Lord Chiltern and Violet Effingham . 
asked Phineas , guessing the truth at once , and remembering what Miss Effingham had said to him when riding in the wood . 
Phineas , though not conscious of anything akin to jealousy , was annoyed at the revelation made to him . 
Since he had heard that Lord Chiltern was in love with Miss Effingham , he did not like Lord Chiltern quite as well as he had done before . 
It was not that Phineas was in love with Miss Effingham himself . 
As he was still violently in love with Lady Laura , any other love was of course impossible ; but , nevertheless , there was something offensive to him in the story as it had been told . 
`` If it be wisdom on her part , '' said he , answering Lady Laura 's last words , `` you can not find fault with her for her decision . '' 
Lady Laura , when she was left alone , at once reverted to the tone in which Phineas Finn had answered her remarks about Miss Effingham . 
Phineas was very ill able to conceal his thoughts , and wore his heart almost upon his sleeve . 
And in asking herself that question , she thought nothing of the disparity in rank or fortune between Phineas Finn and Violet Effingham . 
Nor did it occur to her as at all improbable that Violet might accept the love of him who had so lately been her own lover . 
She was most anxious that Violet should ultimately become her brother 's wife , -- and she could not be pleased that Phineas should be able to love any woman . 
Though she had probably thought often of Phineas Finn since her marriage , her thoughts had never been of a nature to disturb her rest . 
It had never occurred to her even to think that she regarded him with any feeling that was an offence to her husband . 
She had put away from herself the idea of love when she had first perceived that Phineas had regarded her with more than friendship , and had accepted Mr. Kennedy 's offer with an assured conviction that by doing so she was acting best for her own happiness and for that of all those concerned . 
She had felt the romance of the position to be sweet when Phineas had stood with her at the top of the falls of the Linter , and had told her of the hopes which he had dared to indulge . 
And when at the bottom of the falls he had presumed to take her in his arms , she had forgiven him without difficulty to herself , telling herself that that would be the alpha and the omega of the romance of her life . 
If it were so , as she suspected , -- if Phineas Finn had in truth transferred his affections to Violet Effingham , of how little value was the love of such a man ! 
And then she speculated , and counted up facts , and satisfied herself that Phineas could not even have seen Violet Effingham since they two had stood together upon the mountain . 
said Phineas to himself , as he walked away from Grosvenor Place . 
Phineas also liked Lord Chiltern ; had seen or fancied that he had seen fine things in him ; had looked forward to his regeneration , hoping , perhaps , that he might have some hand in the good work . 
But he did not recognise the propriety of sacrificing Violet Effingham even for work so good as this . 
It was a Wednesday evening and there was no House ; -- and at seven o'clock Phineas was at Mr. Monk 's hall door . 
He was the first of the guests , and he found Mr. Monk alone in the dining-room . 
Mr. Monk had once told Phineas Finn how great were the charms of that inaccuracy which was permitted to the Opposition . 
Mr. Kennedy barely said a word now and then , and Phineas was almost as silent as Mr. Kennedy . 
`` There can be no juster object of ambition than a seat in the Cabinet , '' said Phineas . 
`` A man can not begin at the top , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas got up to go at the same time , but stayed at his host 's request , and sat for awhile smoking a cigar . 
Phineas , as he went home , made up his mind that Mrs. Turnbull and the little Turnbulls must probably have a bad time of it . 
It was expected that the debate would not last over one night , and Phineas resolved that he would make his maiden speech on this occasion . 
He had very strong opinions as to the inefficacy of the ballot for any good purposes , and thought that he might be able to strike out from his convictions some sparks of that fire which used to be so plentiful with him at the old debating clubs . 
But even at breakfast that morning his heart began to beat quickly at the idea of having to stand on his legs before so critical an audience . 
He knew that it would be well that he should if possible get the subject off his mind during the day , and therefore went out among the people who certainly would not talk to him about the ballot . 
He sat for nearly an hour in the morning with Mr. Low , and did not even tell Mr. Low that it was his intention to speak on that day . 
It was now nearly the end of February , and Phineas had often seen Lady Laura . 
He had not seen her brother , but had learned from his sister that he had been driven up to London by the frost . 
He was told by the porter at Lord Brentford 's that Lord Chiltern was in the house , and as he was passing through the hall he met Lord Brentford himself . 
He spoke in an angry tone , as though he resented the fact that any one should come to his house to call upon his son ; and turned his back quickly upon Phineas . 
`` Pretty nearly as many as you please to name , my lord , '' said Phineas . 
`` Perhaps I may , '' said Phineas , feeling that he blushed as he spoke . 
Phineas , much astonished at the commission given to him , of course said that he would do as he was desired , and then passed on to Lord Chiltern 's apartments . 
`` I suppose it 's good exercise , '' said Phineas . 
`` I think you pique yourself on being more of an outer Bohemian than you are , '' said Phineas . 
Then Phineas gave him the message from his father . 
`` Yes ; I know her , '' said Phineas , much surprised . 
The house I stay at is called the Willingford Bull , and it 's just four miles from Peterborough , '' Phineas swore that he would go down and ride the pulling horses , and then took his leave , earnestly advising Lord Chiltern , as he went , to keep the appointment proposed by his father . 
Phineas took his seat in the House with a consciousness of much inward trepidation of heart on that night of the ballot debate . 
At half-past seven so many members had deserted their seats , that Phineas began to think that he might be saved all further pains by a `` count out . '' 
He reckoned the members present and found that they were below the mystic forty , -- first by two , then by four , by five , by seven , and at one time by eleven . 
It was not for him to ask the Speaker to count the House , but he wondered that no one else should do so . 
And yet , as the idea of this termination to the night 's work came upon him , and as he thought of his lost labour , he almost took courage again , -- almost dreaded rather than wished for the interference of some malicious member . 
Phineas was aware that Mr. Monk intended to speak , and was aware also that his speech would be very short . 
`` My idea is , '' he had said to Phineas , `` that every man possessed of the franchise should dare to have and to express a political opinion of his own ; that otherwise the franchise is not worth having ; and that men will learn that when all so dare , no evil can come from such daring . 
Phineas also had been informed that Mr. Turnbull would reply to Mr. Monk , with the purpose of crushing Mr. Monk into dust , and Phineas had prepared his speech with something of an intention of subsequently crushing Mr. Turnbull . 
At every hot word as it fell Phineas was driven to regret that a paragraph of his own was taken away from him , and that his choicest morsels of standing ground were being cut from under his feet . 
When Mr. Monk sat down , Phineas felt that Mr. Monk had said all that he , Phineas Finn , had intended to say . 
Just after this , while Mr. Turnbull was still going on with a variety of illustrations drawn from the United States , Barrington Erle stepped across the benches up to the place where Phineas was sitting , and whispered a few words into his ear . 
Phineas was not ready with a reply to Erle at the spur of the moment . 
`` So I did , '' said Phineas . 
Upon Phineas , if he should now consent , might devolve the duty , within ten minutes , within three minutes , of rising there before a full House to defend his great friend , Mr. Monk , from a gross personal attack . 
But Phineas Finn had not even as yet heard the sound of his own voice in that room . 
At this moment , so confused was he , that he did not know where sat Mr. Mildmay , and where Mr. Daubeny . 
Mr. Turnbull continued speaking quite long enough to give poor Phineas time for repentance ; but repentance was of no use . 
He had decided against himself , and his decision could not be reversed . 
He would have left the House , only it seemed to him that had he done so every one would look at him . 
He drew his hat down over his eyes , and remained in his place , hating Mr. Bonteen , hating Barrington Erle , hating Mr. Turnbull , -- but hating no one so much as he hated himself . 
Mr. Bonteen was glib of tongue , and possessed that familiarity with the place which poor Phineas had lacked so sorely . 
There was one moment , however , which was terrible to Phineas . 
As soon as Mr. Bonteen had shown the purpose for which he was on his legs , Mr. Monk looked round at Phineas , as though in reproach . 
Phineas having lost so great an opportunity , would not now consent to accept one that should be comparatively valueless . 
The motion was lost by a large majority , -- by any number you might choose to name , as Phineas had said to Lord Brentford ; but in that there was no triumph to the poor wretch who had failed through fear , and who was now a coward in his own esteem . 
So Phineas walked up Victoria Street , and from thence into Grosvenor Place , and knocked at Lady Laura 's door . 
He was shown up into the drawing-room , and there he found Lady Laura waiting for her husband . 
Then Phineas told her what was the majority . 
`` Is there anything the matter with you , Mr. Finn ? '' 
she said , looking at him suddenly . 
replied Phineas , in despair . 
`` You will do nothing of the kind , '' said Lady Laura , getting up from her chair and coming towards him . 
This was the kind of sympathy which he wanted . 
She drew her chair nearer to him , and then he explained to her as accurately as he could what had taken place in the House on this evening , -- how he had prepared his speech , how he had felt that his preparation was vain , how he perceived from the course of the debate that if he spoke at all his speech must be very different from what he had first intended ; how he had declined to take upon himself a task which seemed to require so close a knowledge of the ways of the House and of the temper of the men , as the defence of such a man as Mr. Monk . 
`` Why do you say that , Mr. Finn ? 
Phineas , as he heard the tones of her voice , could not but feel that there was in Lady Laura 's words something of an accusation against her husband . 
`` I hate justice , '' said Phineas . 
`` Here is Mr. Finn , come to tell us of the debate about the ballot . '' 
`` I do n't care twopence about the ballot , '' said Violet , as she put out her hand to Phineas . 
`` I am quite sure of that , and so , if Mr. Finn can tell me nothing about the iron fleet , I 'll go to bed . '' 
`` Mr. Kennedy will tell you everything when he comes homes , '' said Phineas . 
Good-night , Mr. Finn . '' 
said Phineas . 
After that Phineas went , not wishing to await the return of Mr. Kennedy . 
On the very morning after his failure in the House of Commons , when Phineas was reading in the Telegraph , -- he took the Telegraph not from choice but for economy , -- the words of that debate which he had heard and in which he should have taken a part , a most unwelcome visit was paid to him . 
He was at this time on a Committee of the House with reference to the use of potted peas in the army and navy , at which he had sat once , -- at a preliminary meeting , -- and in reference to which he had already resolved that as he had failed so frightfully in debate , he would certainly do his duty to the utmost in the more easy but infinitely more tedious work of the Committee Room . 
The Committee met at twelve , and he intended to walk down to the Reform Club , and then to the House . 
He had just completed his reading of the debate and of the leaders in the Telegraph on the subject . 
He had told himself how little the writer of the article knew about Mr. Turnbull , how little about Mr. Monk , and how little about the people , -- such being his own ideas as to the qualifications of the writer of that leading article , -- and was about to start . 
`` You had better show him up , '' said Phineas . 
He knew well the business on which the man was come . 
The man wanted money for that bill which Laurence Fitzgibbon had sent afloat , and which Phineas had endorsed . 
Phineas had never as yet fallen so deeply into troubles of money as to make it necessary that he need refuse himself to any callers on that score , and he did not choose to do so now . 
Nevertheless he most heartily wished that he had left his lodgings for the club before the man had come . 
Phineas would not have alluded to the bill had he and Laurence been alone together ; but he had been quick enough to guess from his friend 's manner that the matter was not settled . 
`` About this bill , Mr. Finn , '' said the visitor , proceeding to take out of his breast coat-pocket a rather large leathern case , as he advanced up towards the fire . 
`` My name is Clarkson , Mr. Finn . 
`` Certainly , Mr. Clarkson , '' said Phineas , getting up and pointing to a seat . 
`` Thankye , Mr. Finn , thankye . 
Phineas hated him at once , -- with a hatred altogether unconnected with the difficulty which his friend Fitzgibbon had brought upon him . 
Should n't they now , Mr. Finn ? '' 
`` All men should be punctual , I suppose , '' said Phineas . 
But , perhaps , Mr. Finn , you can hand me a cheque for this amount , and then you and I will begin square . '' 
`` If you 'll allow me , I 'll manage the fire , '' said Phineas , putting out his hand for the poker . 
he said again , holding the poker away from Phineas in his left hand . 
`` Do n't say that , Mr. Finn . 
I 'll do anything , Mr. Finn , if you 'll only be punctual . '' 
`` The fact is , Mr. Clarkson , I have never had one penny of consideration for that bill , and -- '' `` Oh , Mr. Finn ! 
oh , Mr. Finn ! '' 
`` I never had one penny of consideration for that bill , '' continued Phineas . 
`` No , Mr. Finn ; you ca n't deny that . 
Here it is ; -- Phineas Finn ; -- and everybody knows you , because you 're a Parliament gent . '' 
`` He has n't got the money , Mr. Finn . 
`` Oh yes , Mr. Finn ; you know ; you know . '' 
`` I tell you I know nothing about it , '' said Phineas , waxing angry . 
But , bless you , Mr. Finn , there 's an end to everything . 
`` Simply to oblige him , '' continued Phineas . 
Then Phineas got up from his seat and took his hat . 
It was full time that he should go down to his Committee . 
`` Business at the House never presses , Mr. Finn , '' said Mr. Clarkson . 
I know what Parliament is , Mr. Finn . 
There he sat before the fire with his pouch open before him , and Phineas had no power of moving him . 
Could Phineas have paid him the money which was manifestly due to him on the bill , the man would of course have gone ; but failing in that , Phineas could not turn him out . 
There was a black cloud on the young member 's brow , and great anger at his heart , -- against Fitzgibbon rather than against the man who was sitting there before him . 
`` And when shall I call again , Mr. Finn ? '' 
`` Perhaps I had better write to you , '' said Phineas . 
`` I am always engaged on Sundays , '' said Phineas . 
And do be punctual , Mr. Finn . 
Whereupon Mr. Clarkson slowly put up his bills within his portfolio , and then , before Phineas knew where he was , had warmly shaken that poor dismayed member of Parliament by the hand . 
`` Only do be punctual , Mr. Finn , '' he said , as he made his way down the stairs . 
It was now twelve , and Phineas rushed off to a cab . 
He was in such a fervour of rage and misery that he could hardly think of his position , or what he had better do , till he got into the Committee Room ; and when there he could think of nothing else . 
He intended to go deeply into the question of potted peas , holding an equal balance between the assailed Government offices on the one hand , and the advocates of the potted peas on the other . 
The motion for the Committee had been made by a gentleman of the opposition , and Phineas had been put upon it as an independent member . 
He had resolved to give it all his mind , and , as far as he was concerned , to reach a just decision , in which there should be no favour shown to the Government side . 
New brooms are proverbial for thorough work , and in this Committee work Phineas was as yet a new broom . 
But , unfortunately , on this day his mind was so harassed that he could hardly understand what was going on . 
They only proved the production of peas in Holstein , -- a fact as to which Phineas had no doubt . 
Phineas could not keep his mind during the whole afternoon from the subject of his misfortune . 
What should he do if this horrid man came to him once or twice a week ? 
He certainly did owe the man the money . 
He must admit that to himself . 
The man no doubt was a dishonest knave who had discounted the bill probably at fifty per cent. ; but , nevertheless , Phineas had made himself legally responsible for the amount . 
The privilege of the House prohibited him from arrest . 
He thought of that very often , but the thought only made him the more unhappy . 
Would it not be said , and might it not be said truly , that he had incurred this responsibility , -- a responsibility which he was altogether unequal to answer , -- because he was so protected ? 
He did feel that a certain consciousness of his privilege had been present to him when he had put his name across the paper , and that there had been dishonesty in that very consciousness . 
And of what service would his privilege be to him , if this man could harass every hour of his life ? 
The man was to be with him again in a day or two , and when the appointment had been proposed , he , Phineas , had not dared to negative it . 
And how was he to escape ? 
As for paying the bill , that with him was altogether impossible . 
He saw Mr. Monk , but Mr. Monk was walking arm in arm with his colleague , Mr. Palliser , and Phineas could do no more than just speak to them . 
He thought that Mr. Monk 's nod of recognition was very cold . 
From the Reform Club he went to the Shakspeare , a smaller club to which Fitzgibbon belonged , -- and of which Phineas much wished to become a member , -- and to which he knew that his friend resorted when he wished to enjoy himself thoroughly , and to be at ease in his inn . 
Everybody called everybody by his Christian name , and members smoked all over the house . 
Phineas called at the Shakspeare , and was told by the porter that Mr. Fitzgibbon was up-stairs . 
`` I want you to come down to the Reform with me , '' said Phineas . 
`` Yes , Clarkson , '' said Phineas . 
Again as Phineas went home he thoroughly wished that he had not seceded from Mr. Low . 
Miss Effingham went to Berkeley Square , and Phineas Finn was introduced to Lady Baldock . 
He had been often in Grosvenor Place , and had seen Violet frequently . 
Mr. Kennedy gave periodical dinners , -- once a week , -- to which everybody went who could get an invitation ; and Phineas had been a guest more than once . 
Indeed , in spite of his miseries he had taken to dining out a good deal , and was popular as an eater of dinners . 
Phineas received a little card asking him to go , and he always went . 
`` I think you like my friend , Mr. Finn , '' Lady Laura said to Miss Effingham , after the first of these evenings . 
I like him decidedly . '' 
`` So do I. I should hardly have thought that you would have taken a fancy to him . '' 
Now in all those matters , your friend , Mr. Finn , seems to know what he is about . 
In other words , he makes himself pleasant , and , therefore , one is glad to see him . '' 
`` I suppose you do not mean to fall in love with him ? '' 
She had declared to herself over and over again that she had never been in love with Phineas Finn . 
Of course she could not marry Mr. Finn , knowing , as she did , that neither of them had a shilling . 
And yet there was something sore within her when she thought that Phineas Finn was becoming fond of Violet Effingham . 
It was Lady Baldock 's second evening , and Phineas came to the house at about eleven o'clock . 
At this time he had encountered a second and a third interview with Mr. Clarkson , and had already failed in obtaining any word of comfort from Laurence Fitzgibbon about the bill . 
This was very bad , and Phineas tried to quarrel with his friend ; but he found that it was difficult to quarrel with Laurence Fitzgibbon . 
But though on this side Phineas was very miserable , on another side he had obtained great comfort . 
Phineas had explained how he had attempted , how he had failed , and how he had suffered ; -- and Mr. Monk had been generous in his sympathy . 
The first person who spoke to Phineas at Lady Baldock 's was Miss Fitzgibbon , Laurence 's sister . 
`` Mr. Finn , '' said she , `` how d'ye do ? 
Phineas , not knowing how to escape , did retreat into the corner with Miss Fitzgibbon . 
`` Tell me now , Mr. Finn ; -- have ye been lending money to Larrence ? '' 
`` No ; I have lent him no money , '' said Phineas , much astonished by the question . 
On any other matter Larrence is the best creature in the world , -- but he 's bad to lend money to . 
You ai n't in any hobble with him , then ? '' 
Phineas immediately afterwards came across Miss Effingham . 
Are you going out of town next week , Mr. Finn ? '' 
`` Take care what you are about , Mr. Finn ; -- they say his horses are so dangerous ! '' 
Phineas knew , of course , that Lord Chiltern had more than once asked Violet Effingham to be his wife , -- and he believed that she , from her intimacy with Lady Laura , must know that he knew it . 
And Phineas also knew that Violet Effingham was becoming , in his own estimation , the most charming woman of his acquaintance . 
How was he to talk to her about Lord Chiltern ? 
`` He is odd , '' said Phineas ; `` but he is an excellent fellow , -- whom his father altogether misunderstands . '' 
Wo n't you try , Mr. Finn ? '' 
Phineas said that he would think of it , -- that he would try if any fit opportunity could be found . 
`` There are reasons , Mr. Finn . 
`` If I can do anything , Miss Effingham , I will , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas , retreating from this conversation , stood for a while alone , thinking of it . 
And the sweet commendations which had fallen from her lips upon him , -- him , Phineas Finn , -- were they compatible with anything like a growing partiality for himself , or were they incompatible with any such feeling ? 
Had he most reason to be comforted or to be discomfited by what had taken place ? 
It seemed hardly possible to his imagination that Violet Effingham should love such a nobody as he . 
And yet he had had fair evidence that one standing as high in the world as Violet Effingham would fain have loved him could she have followed the dictates of her heart . 
He had trembled when he had first resolved to declare his passion to Lady Laura , -- fearing that she would scorn him as being presumptuous . 
He had declared his love , and she had not thought him to be presumptuous . 
Since he had become so warmly alive to the charms of Violet Effingham he had determined , with stern propriety , that a passion for a married woman was disgraceful . 
No ; -- Lady Laura had done wisely to check the growing feeling of partiality which she had admitted ; and now that she was married , he would be as wise as she . 
It was clear to him that , as regarded his own heart , the way was open to him for a new enterprise . 
But what if he were to fail again , and be told by Violet , when he declared his love , that she had just engaged herself to Lord Chiltern ! 
Tell him , Mr. Finn , never to give it over ; -- and teach him that he should be soft with her . 
Tell him , also , that in her heart she likes him . 
One woman , as you say , knows another woman ; and I am certain he would win her if he would only be gentle with her . '' 
Then , again , before they parted , Lady Laura told him that this marriage was the dearest wish of her heart , and that there would be no end to her gratitude if Phineas could do anything to promote it . 
She had twice told Phineas Finn that of all men in the world she esteemed Mr. Kennedy the most . 
Phineas left London by a night mail train on Easter Sunday , and found himself at the Willingford Bull about half an hour after midnight . 
`` I must go back on Wednesday , '' said Phineas . 
They sat up half the night smoking and talking , and Phineas learned more about Lord Chiltern then than ever he had learned before . 
`` I should think she had her own way in everything , '' said Phineas . 
`` The old woman is an ally of mine now , '' said Phineas . 
`` I would if I were you , '' said Phineas , -- hardly knowing what it might be best for him to say . 
Phineas remembered of course that he had lately come through this ordeal . 
`` I suppose it will come to that if you give her up yourself , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas , as he lit the other cigar , remembered that he owed a certain duty in this matter to Lady Laura . 
She had commissioned him to persuade her brother that his suit with Violet Effingham would not be hopeless , if he could only restrain himself in his mode of conducting it . 
Phineas was disposed to do his duty , although he felt it to be very hard that he should be called upon to be eloquent against his own interest . 
He had been thinking for the last quarter of an hour how he must bear himself if it might turn out that he should be the man whom Lord Chiltern was resolved to kick . 
Phineas , as he went up-stairs , assured himself that he had done his duty . 
If there ever should come to be anything between him and Violet Effingham , Lord Chiltern might quarrel with him , -- might probably attempt that kicking encounter to which allusion had been made , -- but nobody could justly say that he had not behaved honourably to his friend . 
They had a fair day 's sport with the Cottesmore ; and Phineas , though he found that Meg Merrilies did require a good deal of riding , went through his day 's work with credit . 
He had been riding since he was a child , as is the custom with all boys in Munster , and had an Irishman 's natural aptitude for jumping . 
Again they dined alone , and Lord Chiltern explained to Phineas that he rarely associated with the men of either of the hunts in which he rode . 
Phineas , to tell the truth of him , was rather afraid of Bonebreaker , and looked forward to the probability of an accident . 
He had neither wife nor child , and nobody had a better right to risk his neck . 
`` I 'll do my best , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas could not help thinking that the counsels of the master and of the groom were very different . 
There were over two hundred men out , and Phineas began to think that it might not be so easy to get out of the crowd . 
Lord Chiltern 's horse plunged about so violently , as they stood on a little hill-side looking down upon the cover , that he was obliged to take him to a distance , and Phineas followed him . 
Phineas was too much occupied with his own horse to think much of that on which Lord Chiltern was mounted . 
All which caution made Phineas think that any insurance office would charge very dear on his life at the present moment . 
`` Go hard at your fences , and then you 'll fall clear , '' he had said to Phineas . 
I do n't think , however , that he would have ridden at the rail as he did , but that there was no help for him . 
`` The brute began in his own way , and carried on after in the same fashion all through , '' he said afterwards . 
Phineas took the fence a little lower down , and what it was at which he rode he never knew . 
Bonebreaker sailed over it , whatever it was , and he soon found himself by his friend 's side . 
said Phineas , who was doing his very best to ride Bonebreaker with the snaffle , but had already began to feel that Bonebreaker cared nothing for that weak instrument . 
After this , though Phineas kept near Lord Chiltern throughout the run , they were not again near enough to exchange words ; and , indeed , they had but little breath for such purpose . 
Lord Chiltern rode still a little in advance , and Phineas , knowing his friend 's partiality for solitude when taking his fences , kept a little to his left . 
He began to find that Bonebreaker knew pretty well what he was about . 
When a horse puts out what strength he has against a man 's arm , a man must put out what strength he has against the horse 's mouth . 
The fox ran up wind for a couple of miles or so , as Lord Chiltern had prophesied , and then turned , -- not to the right , as would best have served him and Phineas , but to the left , -- so that they were forced to make their way through the ruck of horses before they could place themselves again . 
Phineas found himself crossing a road , in and out of it , before he knew where he was , and for a while he lost sight of Lord Chiltern . 
They went over large pasture fields , and Phineas began to think that as long as Bonebreaker would be able to go through the thick grown-up hedges , all would be right . 
Now and again he came to a cut fence , a fence that had been cut and laid , and these were not so pleasant . 
But the horse , though he would rush at them unpleasantly , took them when they came without touching them . 
It might be all right yet , -- unless the beast should tire with him ; and then , Phineas thought , a misfortune might probably occur . 
He remembered , as he flew over one such impediment , that he rode a stone heavier than his friend . 
The hounds were running well in sight to their right , and Phineas began to feel some of that pride which a man indulges when he becomes aware that he has taken his place comfortably , has left the squad behind , and is going well . 
There were men nearer the hounds than he was , but he was near enough even for ambition . 
There had already been enough of the run to make him sure that it would be a `` good thing , '' and enough to make him aware also that probably it might be too good . 
Phineas got a moment to look about him , and saw Lord Chiltern riding without his cap . 
But the animal seemed still to go with perfect command of strength , and Phineas had too much work on his own hands to think of offering Quixotic assistance to any one else . 
He saw some one , a farmer , as he thought , speak to Lord Chiltern as they rode close together ; but Chiltern only shook his head and pulled at his horse . 
Phineas knew nothing of these brooks ; but Bonebreaker had gone gallantly over two , and now that there came a third in the way , it was to be hoped that he might go gallantly over that also . 
Phineas , at any rate , had no power to decide otherwise . 
As long as the brute would go straight with him he could sit him ; but he had long given up the idea of having a will of his own . 
Indeed , till he was within twenty yards of the brook , he did not see that it was larger than the others . 
He looked round , and there was Chiltern close to him , still fighting with his horse ; -- but the farmer had turned away . 
Phineas , as soon as he was safe , looked back , and there was Lord Chiltern 's horse in the very act of his spring , -- higher up the rivulet , where it was even broader . 
At that distance Phineas could see that Lord Chiltern was wild with rage against the beast . 
It was well then that that extra stone should tell , as it enabled Phineas to arrest his horse and to come back to his friend . 
When Phineas got down he found that Lord Chiltern was wedged in between the horse and the bank , which was better , at any rate , than being under the horse in the water . 
`` All right , old fellow , '' he said , with a smile , when he saw Phineas . 
But he was very pale , and seemed to be quite helpless where he lay . 
He had smashed his shoulder to pieces against a stump on the bank , and was afterwards shot on that very spot . 
When Phineas got down he found that there was but little water where the horse lay . 
Phineas remained with him for a couple of days , losing his run with the Fitzwilliams and a day at the potted peas , and became very fond of his patient as he sat by his bedside . 
said Lord Chiltern as Phineas took his leave . 
`` And , by George , Phineas , you rode Bonebreaker so well , that you shall have him as often as you 'll come down . 
When Phineas got back to London , a day after his time , he found that there was already a great political commotion in the metropolis . 
He had known that on Easter Monday and Tuesday there was to be a gathering of the people in favour of the ballot , and that on Wednesday there was to be a procession with a petition which Mr. Turnbull was to receive from the hands of the people on Primrose Hill . 
Phineas , who reached his lodgings late on the Thursday , found that the town had been in a state of ferment for three days , that on the Wednesday forty or fifty thousand persons had been collected at Primrose Hill , and that the police had been forced to interfere , -- and that worse was expected on the Friday . 
Phineas found at the Reform Club on the Thursday evening that members of the House of Commons were requested to enter on the Friday by the door usually used by the peers , and to make their way thence to their own House . 
He found that his landlord , Mr. Bunce , had been out with the people during the entire three days ; -- and Mrs. Bunce , with a flood of tears , begged Phineas to interfere as to the Friday . 
`` He 's that headstrong that he 'll be took if anybody 's took ; and they say that all Westminster is to be lined with soldiers . '' 
Phineas on the Friday morning did have some conversation with his landlord ; but his first work on reaching London was to see Lord Chiltern 's friends , and tell them of the accident . 
`` Of course he will kill himself some day , '' said the Earl , -- with a tear , however , in each eye . 
He has been taking an enormous deal of exercise , '' said Phineas , `` and drinking no wine . 
Do n't you know , Mr. Finn , how hard it is for a wife not to take advice when it is so given ? '' 
Phineas asked her whether Violet had heard the news , and learned that she was still ignorant of it . 
Thursday was Lady Baldock 's night , and Phineas went from Grosvenor Place to Berkeley Square . 
There he saw Violet , and found that she had heard of the accident . 
`` I am so glad to see you , Mr. Finn , '' she said . 
`` I was close to him , and helped him up . 
The horse jumped into a river with him , and crushed him up against the bank . '' 
`` Yes ; -- almost unintentionally , for my horse was rushing so that I could not hold him . 
Phineas had not looked at the matter in that light ; but he thought that Miss Effingham might probably be right . 
Early on the next morning he saw Mr. Bunce , and used all his eloquence to keep that respectable member of society at home ; -- but in vain . 
he said , with perhaps some little tone of authority in his voice . 
`` Look here , Mr. Finn ; I do n't believe the sea will become any fuller because the Piddle runs into it out of the Dorsetshire fields ; but I do believe that the waters from all the countries is what makes the ocean . 
Phineas , who intended to be honest , was not prepared to dispute the assertion on the spur of the moment . 
And he went . 
Phineas , who made his way through the hall with Laurence Fitzgibbon , found Mr. Turnbull 's carriage waiting at the entrance with a dozen policemen round it . 
`` I hope he wo n't get home to dinner before midnight , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas and Fitzgibbon made their way out , and by degrees worked a passage for themselves into Parliament Street . 
`` Bunce has been taken , '' said she , with something of the tragic queen , and something also of the injured wife in the tone of her voice , as soon as Phineas let himself in with the latch-key between twelve and one . 
`` I knew how it 'd be , Mr. Finn . 
I do n't suppose he 'd had a bit to eat from the moment he went out ; -- and as for a drop of beer , he never thinks of it , except what I puts down for him at his meals . 
Phineas said all that he could to comfort her , and promised to go to the police-office early in the morning and look after Bunce . 
No serious evil would , he thought , probably come of it ; but still Bunce had been wrong to go . 
`` But you might have been took yourself , '' argued Mrs. Bunce , `` just as well as he . '' 
Then Phineas explained that he had gone forth in the execution of a public duty . 
On the following morning , which was Saturday , Phineas was early at the police-office at Westminster looking after the interests of his landlord ; but there had been a considerable number of men taken up during the row , and our friend could hardly procure that attention for Mr. Bunce 's case to which he thought the decency of his client and his own position as a member of Parliament were entitled . 
Poor Phineas had an unquiet time with her on the morning of that day . 
In every ecstasy of her grief she threw herself into his arms , either metaphorically or materially , according to the excess of her agony at the moment , and expressed repeatedly an assured conviction that all her children would die of starvation , and that she herself would be picked up under the arches of one of the bridges . 
Phineas , who was soft-hearted , did what he could to comfort her , and allowed himself to be worked up to strong parliamentary anger against the magistrates and police . 
This he said to Barrington Erle , who angered him and increased the warmth of his feeling by declaring that a little close confinement would be good for the Bunces of the day . 
Phineas had no opportunity of answering this , but declared to himself that Barrington Erle was no more a Liberal at heart than was Mr. Daubeny . 
`` He was born on that side of the question , and has been receiving Whig wages all his life . 
That is the history of his politics ! '' 
On the Sunday afternoon Phineas went to Lord Brentford 's in Portman Square , intending to say a word or two about Lord Chiltern , and meaning also to induce , if possible , the Cabinet Minister to take part with him against the magistrates , -- having a hope also , in which he was not disappointed , that he might find Lady Laura Kennedy with her father . 
Phineas had received a letter from the Stamford surgeon , and was able to report favourably of Lord Chiltern . 
`` The man says that he had better not be moved for a month , '' said Phineas . 
`` Will it not be best for him to remain where he is ? '' 
`` He has not a soul to speak to , '' said Phineas . 
`` I wish I were with him , '' said his sister . 
`` They know him at that inn , and it really seems to me best that he should stay there . 
I do not think he would be so much at his ease here . '' 
After this Phineas found it very difficult to extract any sympathy from the Earl on behalf of the men who had been locked up . 
Lady Laura was somewhat softer than this , and consented to express pity in the case of Mr. Bunce himself ; but Phineas perceived that the pity was awarded to him and not to the sufferer . 
Phineas spent the remainder of that day alone , and came to a resolution that on the coming occasion he certainly would speak in the House . 
The debate would be resumed on the Monday , and he would rise to his legs on the very first moment that it became possible for him to do so . 
And he would do nothing towards preparing a speech ; -- nothing whatever . 
On this occasion he would trust entirely to such words as might come to him at the moment ; -- ay , and to such thoughts . 
He had before burdened his memory with preparations , and the very weight of the burden had been too much for his mind . 
He had feared to trust himself to speak , because he had felt that he was not capable of performing the double labour of saying his lesson by heart , and of facing the House for the first time . 
There should be nothing now for him to remember . 
His thoughts were full of his subject . 
He would support Mr. Mildmay 's bill with all his eloquence , but he would implore Mr. Mildmay , and the Home Secretary , and the Government generally , to abstain from animosity against the populace of London , because they desired one special boon which Mr. Mildmay did not think that it was his duty to give them . 
On the Monday morning Phineas was for two hours at the police-court in Westminster , and at about one on that day Mr. Bunce was liberated . 
Phineas , however , was allowed to give evidence as to his landlord 's character , and then Bunce was liberated . 
But before he went he again swore that that should not be the last of it , and he told the magistrate that he had been ill-used . 
When liberated , he was joined by a dozen sympathising friends , who escorted him home , and among them were one or two literary gentlemen , employed on those excellent penny papers , the People 's Banner and the Ballot-box . 
One of these gentlemen made a distinct offer to Phineas Finn of unbounded popularity during life and of immortality afterwards , if he , as a member of Parliament , would take up Bunce 's case with vigour . 
Phineas , not quite understanding the nature of the offer , and not as yet knowing the profession of the gentleman , gave some general reply . 
`` You come out strong , Mr. Finn , and we 'll see that you are properly reported . 
Phineas , who had been somewhat eager in expressing his sympathy with Bunce , and had not given very close attention to the gentleman who was addressing him , was still in the dark . 
`` Something ought to be done , certainly , '' said Phineas . 
You 'll find , Mr. Finn , that in public life there 's nothing like having a horgan to back you . 
And you ca n't do that without a horgan , Mr. Finn . 
You come among us on the Banner , Mr. Finn . 
Then Phineas understood the nature of the offer made to him . 
Phineas , when he left the indignant Bunce to go among his friends , walked to the House thinking a good deal of what Mr. Slide had said to him . 
He , Phineas , had come into Parliament as it were under the wing of a Government pack , and his friendships , which had been very successful , had been made with Ministers , and with the friends of Ministers . 
Phineas was determined to speak , and to speak on this evening if he could catch the Speaker 's eye . 
Again the scene before him was going round before him ; again things became dim , and again he felt his blood beating hard at his heart . 
But things were not so bad with him as they had been before , because he had nothing to remember . 
He hardly knew , indeed , what he intended to say . 
He had an idea that he was desirous of joining in earnest support of the measure , with a vehement protest against the injustice which had been done to the people in general , and to Mr. Bunce in particular . 
Phineas did not hear a word that he said ; -- did not attempt to hear . 
He was keen in his resolution to make another attempt at the Speaker 's eye , and at the present moment was thinking of that , and of that only . 
At last the member for East Barest sat down , and Phineas was conscious that he had lost a moment or two in presenting himself again to the Speaker . 
There was a slight pause , and as some other urgent member did not reseat himself , Phineas heard the president of that august assembly call upon himself to address the House . 
There he was with the House of Commons at his feet , -- a crowded House , bound to be his auditors as long as he should think fit to address them , and reporters by tens and twenties in the gallery ready and eager to let the country know what the young member for Loughshane would say in this his maiden speech . 
Phineas Finn had sundry gifts , a powerful and pleasant voice , which he had learned to modulate , a handsome presence , and a certain natural mixture of modesty and self-reliance , which would certainly protect him from the faults of arrogance and pomposity , and which , perhaps , might carry him through the perils of his new position . 
And he had also the great advantage of friends in the House who were anxious that he should do well . 
But he had not that gift of slow blood which on the former occasion would have enabled him to remember his prepared speech , and which would now have placed all his own resources within his own reach . 
He began with the expression of an opinion that every true reformer ought to accept Mr. Mildmay 's bill , even if it were accepted only as an instalment , -- but before he had got through these sentences , he became painfully conscious that he was repeating his own words . 
`` Yes , '' said Phineas ; `` I shall walk . '' 
Phineas had no means of escape , and left the House hanging on Mr. Monk 's arm , without a word . 
`` Mr. Monk , '' said Phineas , `` I have made an ass of myself so thoroughly , that there will at any rate be this good result , that I shall never make an ass of myself again after the same fashion . '' 
Phineas Finn had been , as it were , adopted by her as her own political offspring , -- or at any rate as her political godchild . 
She had made promises on his behalf to various personages of high political standing , -- to her father , to Mr. Monk , to the Duke of St. Bungay , and even to Mr. Mildmay himself . 
She had thoroughly intended that Phineas Finn should be a political success from the first ; and since her marriage , she had , I think , been more intent upon it than before . 
Perhaps there was a feeling on her part that having wronged him in one way , she would repay him in another . 
She had become so eager for his success , -- for a while scorning to conceal her feeling , -- that her husband had unconsciously begun to entertain a dislike to her eagerness . 
Lord Brentford said something which indicated that he had heard the debate on the previous evening , and Lady Laura instantly began to ask him about Phineas . 
Lady Laura had not a word more to say about Phineas to her father ; but , womanlike , she resolved that she would not abandon him . 
`` And will Mr. Finn lose his seat ? '' 
`` He only got it by an accident . '' 
`` You must find him a seat somewhere in England , '' said Violet . 
`` Would not that be just the place for Mr. Finn ? '' 
`` It would be a thousand pities that Mr. Finn should be turned out into the cold . 
But I believe Mr. Finn would do it , if he set his mind to it , and I shall think it a great shame if they turn him out . '' 
Of course Lord Chiltern should have it if he wants it , but I do n't think he will stand in Mr. Finn 's way . '' 
`` Because you do n't want to go to New Zealand ; -- but you might try about Loughton for poor Mr. Finn . '' 
`` Violet , '' said Lady Laura , after a moment 's pause ; -- and she spoke sharply ; `` Violet , I believe you are in love with Mr. Finn . '' 
But I do begin to believe that you are in love with Mr. Finn . '' 
`` Why should n't I be in love with him , if I like ? '' 
`` I say nothing about that ; -- only he has not got a penny . '' 
`` And I doubt whether you have any reason for supposing that he is in love with you . '' 
`` Then you are in love with him ? '' 
You are quite welcome to talk as much about me as you please ; -- but as to Mr. Phineas Finn , you have no business to think anything . '' 
I am not in love with Mr. Phineas Finn . 
`` Do you know , '' continued Violet , `` that I think I could be in love with Mr. Phineas Finn , if I could be in love with anybody ? '' 
`` In the first place , he is a gentleman , '' continued Violet . 
`` Then he is a man of spirit . 
And then he has not too much spirit ; -- not that kind of spirit which makes some men think that they are the finest things going . 
His manners are perfect ; -- not Chesterfieldian , and yet never offensive . 
He never browbeats any one , and never toadies any one . 
He knows how to live easily with men of all ranks , without any appearance of claiming a special status for himself . 
If he were made Archbishop of Canterbury to-morrow , I believe he would settle down into the place of the first subject in the land without arrogance , and without false shame . '' 
`` You are his eulogist with a vengeance . '' 
`` I am his eulogist ; but I am not in love with him . 
If he were to ask me to be his wife to-morrow , I should be distressed , and should refuse him . 
If he were to marry my dearest friend in the world , I should tell him to kiss me and be my brother . 
As to Mr. Phineas Finn , -- those are my sentiments . '' 
I once thought , Laura , that you did love him ; -- that you meant to be his wife . '' 
`` And you told me also that I had no reason for thinking that he cared for me . '' 
He did care for me . 
He did love me . '' 
`` He told you so ? '' 
`` Yes ; -- he told me so . '' 
`` And how did you answer him ? 
In the meantime Phineas was very wretched at home . 
When he reached his lodgings after leaving the House , -- after his short conversation with Mr. Monk , -- he tried to comfort himself with what that gentleman had said to him . 
But all this hope faded away when Phineas was in his own rooms . 
There came upon him , as he looked round them , an idea that he had no business to be in Parliament , that he was an impostor , that he was going about the world under false pretences , and that he would never set himself aright , even unto himself , till he had gone through some terrible act of humiliation . 
He had been a cheat even to Mr. Quintus Slide of the Banner , in accepting an invitation to come among them . 
Then Phineas knew that Mr. Clarkson was in his sitting-room , and that he would not leave it till he had seen the owner of the room . 
Nay , -- Phineas was pretty sure that Mr. Clarkson would come into the bedroom , if he were kept long waiting . 
`` Damn the old gentleman , '' said Phineas in his wrath ; -- and the maidservant heard him say so . 
In about twenty minutes he went out into the sitting-room , with his slippers on and in his dressing-gown . 
`` Very bad , Mr. Finn ; very bad indeed ; very bad , ai n't it ? '' 
`` You coming here in this way at all times in the day is very bad , '' said Phineas . 
`` I have not had your money , '' said Phineas . 
`` I 've not had any of your money , '' said Phineas . 
`` Mr. Finn , '' said he , showing the bill , `` is that your name ? '' 
`` Mr. Clarkson , '' said Phineas , `` I can not ask you to breakfast here . 
`` No , '' said Phineas . 
`` After this , '' said Phineas , `` I must beg , Mr. Clarkson , that you will never come to my room any more . 
On that morning Phineas heard Mr. Ratler declare at the club that , as far as his judgment went , the division at that moment was a fair subject for a bet . 
During the week Phineas had had his hands sufficiently full . 
Twice he had gone to the potted peas inquiry ; but he had been at the office of the People 's Banner more often than that . 
Bunce had been very resolute in his determination to bring an action against the police for false imprisonment , even though he spent every shilling of his savings in doing so . 
And when his wife , in the presence of Phineas , begged that bygones might be bygones , reminding him that spilt milk could not be recovered , he called her a mean-spirited woman . 
Phineas by no means encouraged his landlord in his litigious spirit , advising him rather to keep his money in his pocket , and leave the fighting of the battle to the columns of the Banner , -- which would fight it , at any rate , with economy . 
But Bunce , though he delighted in the Banner , and showed an unfortunate readiness to sit at the feet of Mr. Quintus Slide , would have his action at law ; -- in which resolution Mr. Slide did , I fear , encourage him behind the back of his better friend , Phineas Finn . 
Phineas went with Bunce to Mr. Low 's chambers , -- for Mr. Low had in some way become acquainted with the law-stationer 's journeyman , -- and there some very good advice was given . 
When he was out in the square with Phineas he expressed great anger against Mr. Low . 
After that , Bunce went to his attorney , to the great detriment of the business at the stationer 's shop , and Phineas visited the office of the People 's Banner . 
There he wrote a leading article about Bunce 's case , for which he was in due time to be paid a guinea . 
After all , the People 's Banner might do more for him in this way than ever would be done by Parliament . 
Mr. Slide , however , and another gentleman at the Banner office , much older than Mr. Slide , who announced himself as the actual editor , were anxious that Phineas should rid himself of his heterodox political resolutions about the ballot . 
It was not that they cared much about his own opinions ; and when Phineas attempted to argue with the editor on the merits of the ballot , the editor put him down very shortly . 
`` We go in for it , Mr. Finn , '' he said . 
If Mr. Finn would go in for it too , the editor seemed to think that Mr. Finn might make himself very useful at the Banner Office . 
Phineas stoutly maintained that this was impossible , -- and was therefore driven to confine his articles in the service of the people to those open subjects on which his opinions agreed with those of the People 's Banner . 
This was his second article , and the editor seemed to think that , backward as he was about the ballot , he was too useful an aid to be thrown aside . 
Phineas wrote his article and promised to look in again , and so they went on . 
Mr. Quintus Slide continued to assure him that a `` horgan '' was indispensable to him , and Phineas began to accommodate his ears to the sound which had at first been so disagreeable . 
He found that his acquaintance , Mr. Slide , had ideas of his own as to getting into the ` Ouse at some future time . 
Then Phineas asked him whether he had any idea of a constituency , to which Mr. Slide replied that he had no absolutely formed intention . 
Then he named the borough of Loughton ; and Phineas Finn , thinking of Saulsby , thinking of the Earl , thinking of Lady Laura , and thinking of Violet , walked away disgusted . 
On the last day of the debate , at a few moments before four o'clock , Phineas encountered another terrible misfortune . 
He had been at the potted peas since twelve , and had on this occasion targed two or three commissariat officers very tightly with questions respecting cabbages and potatoes , and had asked whether the officers on board a certain ship did not always eat preserved asparagus while the men had not even a bean . 
I fear that he had been put up to this business by Mr. Quintus Slide , and that he made himself nasty . 
Phineas here was button-holed by Barrington Erle , who said something to him as to the approaching division . 
He was in the act of answering Erle , when he was touched on the arm , and on turning round , saw Mr. Clarkson . 
`` About that little bill , Mr. Finn , '' said the horrible man , turning his chin round over his white cravat . 
Phineas Finn no doubt had his privilege , but Mr. Clarkson was determined that the privilege should avail him as little as possible . 
Phineas had in truth never taken a farthing from any one but his father ; and though doubtless he owed something at this moment , he had no creditor of his own that was even angry with him . 
As the world goes he was a clear man , -- but for this debt of his friend Fitzgibbon . 
He left Barrington Erle in the lobby , and hurried into the House , blushing up to the eyes . 
He looked for Fitzgibbon in his place , but the Lord of the Treasury was not as yet there . 
Doubtless he would be there for the division , and Phineas resolved that he would speak a bit of his mind before he let his friend out of his sight . 
Phineas had seen Laurence Fitzgibbon enter the House , -- which he did quite late in the night , so as to be in time for the division . 
Phineas was near him as they passed by the tellers , near him in the lobby , and near him again as they all passed back into the House . 
But at the last moment he thought that he would miss his prey . 
In the crowd as they left the House he failed to get his hand upon his friend 's shoulder . 
But he hurried down the members ' passage , and just at the gate leading out into Westminster Hall he overtook Fitzgibbon walking arm-in-arm with Barrington Erle . 
Then Phineas , looking up into his face , knew very well that he had been -- what the world calls , dining . 
Phineas remembered at the moment that Barrington Erle had been close to him when the odious money-lender had touched his arm and made his inquiry about that `` little bill . '' 
`` Just give me your arm , and come on with me for a minute , '' said Phineas . 
`` I have been dreadfully annoyed to-night , '' said Phineas , `` and I wished to speak to you about it . '' 
Phineas perceived clearly that though Fitzgibbon had been dining , there was as much of cunning in all this as of wine , and he was determined not to submit to such unlimited ill-usage . 
`` A confounded bill discounter to whom our friend here has introduced me , -- for his own purposes , '' said Phineas . 
Ask him to breakfast , and let him understand that the house will always be open to him . '' 
`` It is impossible to say whether he is pleased or not , '' said Lady Laura , speaking of him to Phineas . 
`` His ambition must be gratified , '' said Phineas . 
`` You had better come over to us , Mr. Finn ; you had indeed , '' said Mr. Slide . 
But in those days Phineas was something less in love with Mr. Quintus Slide than he had been at the time of the great debate , for he was becoming more and more closely connected with people who in their ways of living and modes of expression were very unlike Mr. Slide . 
There had been many discussions about the bringing of Lord Chiltern up to London , in all of which Phineas had been concerned . 
Lord Brentford had thought that his son had better remain down at the Willingford Bull ; and although he said that the rooms were at his son 's disposal should Lord Chiltern choose to come to London , still he said it in such a way that Phineas , who went down to Willingford , could not tell his friend that he would be made welcome in Portman Square . 
Miss Pouncefoot 's rooms were prepared for him at Mr. Bunce 's house , and Phineas Finn went down to Willingford and brought him up . 
`` I 've sold Bonebreaker , '' he said , -- `` to a young fellow whose neck will certainly be the sacrifice if he attempts to ride him . 
I 'd have given him to you , Phineas , only you would n't have known what to do with him . '' 
But there were other messages sent from Violet through Phineas Finn which she worded with more show of affection , -- perhaps as much for the discomfort of Phineas as for the consolation of Lord Chiltern . 
But before the old Parliament was closed , and the writs for the new election were despatched , there occurred an incident which was of very much importance to Phineas Finn . 
Near the end of June , when the remaining days of the session were numbered by three or four , he had been dining at Lord Brentford 's house in Portman Square in company with Mr. Kennedy . 
The father would ask how the son occupied himself , and Phineas would hope , -- though hitherto he had hoped in vain , -- that he would induce the Earl to come and see Lord Chiltern . 
On this evening , at about eleven , Mr. Kennedy and Phineas left the house together , and walked from the Square through Orchard Street into Oxford Street . 
Here their ways parted , but Phineas crossed the road with Mr. Kennedy , as he was making some reply to a second invitation to Loughlinter . 
Phineas , considering what had been said before on the subject , thought that the invitation came late , and that it was not warmly worded . 
He had , therefore , declined it , and was in the act of declining it , when he crossed the road with Mr. Kennedy . 
Phineas as he left him distinctly perceived the same two figures on the other side of Oxford Street , and then turning into the shadow of a butcher 's porch , he saw them cross the street in the wake of Mr. Kennedy . 
It hardly occurred to Phineas to think that any danger was imminent to Mr. Kennedy from the men , but it did occur to him that he might as well take some notice of the matter . 
Phineas knew that Mr. Kennedy would make his way down Park Street , that being his usual route from Portman Square towards his own home , and knew also that he himself could again come across Mr. Kennedy 's track by going down North Audley Street to the corner of Grosvenor Square , and thence by Brook Street into Park Street . 
Phineas understood well now that his friend was in the act of being garrotted , and that his instant assistance was needed . 
He rushed forward , and as the second ruffian had been close upon the footsteps of the first , there was almost instantaneously a concourse of the four men . 
His companion was turning also , but Phineas was too quick for him , and having seized on to his collar , held to him with all his power . 
Phineas , however , had n't seen this , and held on gallantly , and in a couple of minutes the first ruffian was back again upon the spot in the custody of a policeman . 
`` You 've done it uncommon neat , sir , '' said the policeman , complimenting Phineas upon his performance . 
The policeman was for a while anxious that at any rate Phineas should go with him to the police-office ; but at last consented to take the addresses of the two gentlemen . 
When he found that Mr. Kennedy was a member of Parliament , and that he was designated as Right Honourable , his respect for the garrotter became more great , and he began to feel that the night was indeed a night of great importance . 
He expressed unbounded admiration at Mr. Finn 's success in his own line , and made repeated promises that the men should be forthecoming on the morrow . 
When , however , they reached the door in Grosvenor Place , Phineas wanted to go , and leave his friend with the servants , but this the Cabinet Minister would not allow . 
So they went up-stairs into the drawing-room , and then upon the stairs , by the lights of the house , Phineas could perceive that his companion 's face was bruised and black with dirt , and that his cravat was gone . 
`` I had seen the men , and thought it best to run round by the corner of Grosvenor Square , '' said Phineas . 
But he pressed our hero 's hand , and Lady Laura said that of course Phineas would come to them on the morrow . 
Phineas remarked that his first business must be to go to the police-office , but he promised that he would come down to Grosvenor Place immediately afterwards . 
Then Lady Laura also pressed his hand , and looked -- ; she looked , I think , as though she thought that Phineas would only have done right had he repeated the offence which he had committed under the waterfall of Loughlinter . 
said Lord Chiltern , when Phineas told him the story before they went to bed that night . 
He had been smoking , sipping brandy-and-water , and waiting for Finn 's return . 
By three o'clock in the day after the little accident which was told in the last chapter , all the world knew that Mr. Kennedy , the new Cabinet Minister , had been garrotted , or half garrotted , and that that child of fortune , Phineas Finn , had dropped upon the scene out of heaven at the exact moment of time , had taken the two garrotters prisoners , and saved the Cabinet Minister 's neck and valuables , -- if not his life . 
A good deal was said about it to Phineas at the clubs , but a word or two that was said to him by Violet Effingham was worth all the rest . 
`` That 's my bad luck , '' said Phineas . 
He knew that such words from a girl mean nothing , -- especially from such a girl as Violet Effingham ; but nevertheless they were very pleasant to him . 
`` To tell you the truth , Lady Laura , '' said Phineas , `` I doubt whether the men of Loughshane , -- or rather the man of Loughshane , will have anything more to say to me . '' 
Every word of information that had come to Phineas about Loughshane since Mr. Mildmay had decided upon a dissolution , had gone towards making him feel at first that there was a great doubt as to his re-election , and at last that there was almost a certainty against him . 
It had been known that there would be such discussion ; and Mr. Monk having heard from Phineas a word or two now and again about the potted peas , had recommended him to be ready with a few remarks if he wished to support the Government in the matter of that vote . 
Phineas did so wish , having learned quite enough in the Committee Room up-stairs to make him believe that a large importation of the potted peas from Holstein would not be for the advantage of the army or navy , -- or for that of the country at large . 
Mr. Monk had made his suggestion without the slightest allusion to the former failure , -- just as though Phineas were a practised speaker accustomed to be on his legs three or four times a week . 
`` If I find a chance , I will , '' said Phineas , taking the advice just as it was given . 
It so happened that Phineas was not in the House , but he heard it all when he came down to attend the Committee of Ways and Means . 
Phineas , when the time came , did get on his legs , and spoke perhaps two or three dozen words . 
The doing so seemed to come to him quite naturally . 
He had thought very little about it beforehand , -- having resolved not to think of it . 
Then with much bitterness of spirit Phineas resolved that he would not interfere with Lord Tulla at Loughshane . 
He put out his hand to Phineas , and said some word in a whisper , -- some word or two among which Phineas caught the sound of `` potted peas , '' -- and then continued to look out of the window . 
Phineas , who was full of his own bad news , had intended to tell his sad story at once . 
But he perceived that the neck of the Chancellor of the Duchy was too stiff to allow of his taking any interest in external matters , and so he refrained . 
said Phineas , perceiving that just for the present there could be only one possible subject for remark . 
She declared her conviction that had Phineas been a moment later her husband 's neck would have been irredeemably broken . 
`` I do n't think they ever do kill the people , '' said Phineas . 
`` I fancy not , '' said Phineas , eager in the cause of truth . 
`` Perhaps he was a beginner , '' said Phineas , `` and that may make a difference . 
Then , by degrees , the conversation got away to other things , and Lady Laura asked him after Loughshane . 
`` I 've made up my mind to give it up , '' said he , smiling as he spoke . 
said Phineas . 
And then he smiled again . 
`` I could n't think of it , '' said Phineas Finn . 
`` It is n't that , '' said Phineas , somewhat rudely . 
And perhaps , Mr. Finn , I may own that Mr. Kennedy and I would both be very sorry that you should not be in the House , and that that feeling on our part has had some weight with my father . '' 
Of course Phineas was persuaded before he left Mr. Kennedy 's room . 
Indeed , when he came to think of it , there appeared to him to be no valid reason why he should not sit for Loughton . 
Of course he , Phineas Finn , desired earnestly , -- longed in his very heart of hearts , -- to extinguish all such Parliamentary influence , to root out for ever the last vestige of close borough nominations ; but while the thing remained it was better that the thing should contribute to the liberal than to the conservative strength of the House , -- and if to the liberal , how was this to be achieved but by the acceptance of such influence by some liberal candidate ? 
Phineas , as he preached to himself this sermon , declared to himself that they who attempted more than this flew too high in the clouds to be of service to men and women upon earth . 
As he did not see Lord Brentford that day he postponed writing to his father for twenty-four hours . 
On the following morning he found the Earl at home in Portman Square , having first discussed the matter fully with Lord Chiltern . 
`` Whether that be true or not , Phineas , I shall not accept my father 's interest at Loughton , unless it be offered to me in a way in which it never will be offered . 
Nor will he . 
Phineas had his interview with the Earl , and in ten minutes everything was settled . 
On his way to Portman Square there had come across his mind the idea of a grand effort of friendship . 
What if he could persuade the father so to conduct himself towards his son , that the son should consent to be a member for the borough ? 
And he did say a word or two to this effect , setting forth that Lord Chiltern would condescend to become a legislator , if only his father would condescend to acknowledge his son 's fitness for such work without any comments on the son 's past life . 
Very little , -- hardly a word indeed , -- was said between the Earl and Phineas about politics . 
Phineas was to be the Saulsby candidate at Loughton for the next election , and was to come to Saulsby with the Kennedys from Loughlinter , -- either with the Kennedys or somewhat in advance of them . 
Phineas , who was sensitive , felt this and winced . 
He had never quite liked Lord Brentford , and could not bring himself to do so now in spite of the kindness which the Earl was showing him . 
Nevertheless , his father had evidently believed , when writing , that Phineas would not abandon his seat without a useless and expensive contest . 
He now thanked his father with many expressions of gratitude , -- declared his conviction that his father was right about Lord Tulla , and then , in the most modest language that he could use , went on to say that he had found another borough open to him in England . 
A few days after this Phineas was very much surprised at a visit that was made to him at his lodgings . 
`` You had better let him sit in your armchair for half an hour or so , '' Fitzgibbon had said ; and Phineas almost believed that it would be better . 
The man was a terrible nuisance to him , and he was beginning to think that he had better undertake to pay the debt by degrees . 
It was , he knew , quite on the cards that Mr. Clarkson should have him arrested while at Saulsby . 
`` Think of my time and trouble in coming here , '' Mr. Clarkson had urged when Phineas had objected to these terms . 
`` Think of my time and trouble , and do be punctual , Mr. Finn . '' 
Phineas had offered him ten pounds a quarter , the payments to be marked on the back of the bill , a tender which Mr. Clarkson had not seemed to regard as strong evidence of punctuality . 
He had not been angry , but had simply expressed his intention of calling again , -- giving Phineas to understand that business would probably take him to the west of Ireland in the autumn . 
If only business might not take him down either to Loughlinter or to Saulsby ! 
But the strange visitor who came to Phineas in the midst of these troubles put an end to them all . 
`` You 'll be very much surprised at my coming to your chambers , no doubt , '' she said , as she sat down in the chair which Phineas placed for her . 
Phineas could only say that he was very proud to be so highly honoured , and that he hoped she was well . 
I have just come about a little business , Mr. Finn , and I hope you 'll excuse me . '' 
`` I 'm quite sure that there is no need for excuses , '' said Phineas . 
I 've been to that Mr. Clarkson , Mr. Finn , and I 've paid him the money . '' 
said Phineas . 
`` But I have , Mr. Finn . 
And Miss Fitzgibbon produced the document which bore the name of Phineas Finn across the front of it . 
And now , Mr. Finn , I hope you wo n't have any more money engagements with my brother Laurence . '' 
Phineas said that he thought he might promise that he would have no more . 
Good-bye , Mr. Finn . 
Then Phineas was left looking at the bill . 
It was certainly a great relief to him , -- that he should be thus secured from the domiciliary visits of Mr. Clarkson ; a great relief to him to be assured that Mr. Clarkson would not find him out down at Loughton ; but , nevertheless , he had to suffer a pang of shame as he felt that Miss Fitzgibbon had become acquainted with his poverty and had found herself obliged to satisfy his pecuniary liabilities . 
Phineas went down to Loughlinter early in July , taking Loughton in his way . 
He stayed there one night at the inn , and was introduced to sundry influential inhabitants of the borough by Mr. Grating , the ironmonger , who was known by those who knew Loughton to be a very strong supporter of the Earl 's interest . 
Mr. Grating and about half a dozen others of the tradesmen of the town came to the inn , and met Phineas in the parlour . 
He told them he was a good sound Liberal and a supporter of Mr. Mildmay 's Government , of which their neighbour the Earl was so conspicuous an ornament . 
This was almost all that was said about the Earl out loud ; but each individual man of Loughton then present took an opportunity during the meeting of whispering into Mr. Finn 's ear a word or two to show that he also was admitted to the secret councils of the borough , -- that he too could see the inside of the arrangement . 
`` Never mind what you hear about a Tory candidate , Mr. Finn , '' whispered a second ; `` the Earl can do what he pleases here . '' 
And it seemed to Phineas that it was thought by them all to be rather a fine thing to be thus held in the hand by an English nobleman . 
Phineas could not but reflect much upon this as he lay in his bed at the Loughton inn . 
The great political question on which the political world was engrossed up in London was the enfranchisement of Englishmen , -- of Englishmen down to the rank of artisans and labourers ; -- and yet when he found himself in contact with individual Englishmen , with men even very much above the artisan and the labourer , he found that they rather liked being bound hand and foot , and being kept as tools in the political pocket of a rich man . 
But the Earl 's man of business saw Phineas on the morning of his departure , and told him not to regard Mr. Shortribs . 
We have them all in hand too well for that , Mr. Finn ! '' 
Lady Baldock was expected there , with her daughter and Violet Effingham ; but , as well as Phineas could learn , they would not be at Loughlinter until after he had left it . 
If this were to be so , Phineas had resolved that , in the event of his election at Loughton , he would not return to Ireland till after this autumn session should be over . 
He gave an account to the Earl , in the presence of the Earl 's son-in-law , of what had taken place at Loughton , and the Earl expressed himself as satisfied . 
There was fishing , -- if Phineas chose to fish ; and he was told that he could shoot a deer if he was minded to go out alone . 
But it seemed as though it were the intention of the host that his guests should spend their time profitably . 
Phineas got hold of a stiff bit of reading for himself , and tried to utilise his time . 
He took Alison in hand , and worked his way gallantly through a couple of volumes . 
But even he , more than once or twice , found himself on the very verge of slumber . 
Then he would wake up and try to think about things . 
Why was he , Phineas Finn , an Irishman from Killaloe , living in that great house of Loughlinter as though he were one of the family , striving to kill the hours , and feeling that he was in some way subject to the dominion of his host ? 
Would it not be better for him to get up and go away ? 
In his heart of hearts he did not like Mr. Kennedy , though he believed him to be a good man . 
So Phineas went to work again with his Alison , and read away till he nodded . 
In those days he often wandered up and down the Linter and across the moor to the Linn , and so down to the lake . 
Lady Laura , no doubt , had been very anxious that her brother should marry Violet ; but Lord Chiltern , as Phineas knew , had asked for Violet 's hand twice in vain ; and , moreover , Chiltern himself had declared to Phineas that he would never ask for it again . 
There was a little wooden seat near to the rock upon which Phineas had been lying , and upon this Lady Laura sat down Phineas , with his eyes turned upon the lake , was considering how he might introduce the subject of his love for Violet Effingham ; but he did not find the matter very easy . 
He had just resolved to begin by saying that Violet would certainly never accept Lord Chiltern , when Lady Laura spoke a word or two which stopped him altogether . 
`` I do not think it has been slow with me , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas of course understood that she was complaining of her husband , and hardly knew how to reply to her . 
He had been sharp enough to perceive already that Mr. Kennedy was an autocrat in his own house , and he knew Lady Laura well enough to be sure that such masterdom would be very irksome to her . 
`` Yes , Phineas , a mistake . 
She had never called him Phineas before . 
He was aware that the circle of his acquaintance had fallen into a way of miscalling him by his Christian name , as one observes to be done now and again in reference to some special young man . 
Most of the men whom he called his friends called him Phineas . 
Mrs. Low had called him Phineas when she regarded him as her husband 's most cherished pupil ; and Mrs. Bunce had called him Mr. Phineas . 
He had always been Phineas to everybody at Killaloe . 
But still he was quite sure that Lady Laura had never so called him before . 
`` You can tell no one who is more anxious for your happiness , '' said Phineas . 
he asked . 
Still he did not look at her , but lay with his face supported on his hands , and his eyes turned away upon the lake . 
But she , where she was sitting , could see him , and was aided by her sight in making comparisons in her mind between the two men who had been her lovers , -- between him whom she had taken and him whom she had left . 
`` Phineas , '' she said , slowly , `` I have in you such perfect confidence that I will tell you the truth ; -- as one man may tell it to another . 
`` Here is Mr. Kennedy , '' said Phineas , in a tone of voice not devoid of dismay and trouble . 
Phineas also had risen , and was now looking somewhat sheepish where he stood . 
`` And you happened to come across him by accident ? '' 
Then Mr. Kennedy went on , and Phineas was left with the charge of taking Lady Laura back to the house . 
When Mr. Kennedy 's hat had first appeared coming up the walk , Phineas had been ready to proclaim himself prepared for any devotion in the service of Lady Laura . 
Indeed , he had begun to reply with criminal tenderness to the indiscreet avowal which Lady Laura had made to him . 
But he felt now , after what had just occurred in the husband 's presence , that any show of tenderness , -- of criminal tenderness , -- was impossible . 
The absence of all suspicion on the part of Mr. Kennedy had made Phineas feel that he was bound by all social laws to refrain from such tenderness . 
said Phineas . 
That I think will do , Mr. Finn . 
So he turned away towards the lake , and let Lady Laura go across the wide lawn to the house by herself . 
He had failed altogether in his intention of telling his friend of his love for Violet , and had come to perceive that he could not for the present carry out that intention . 
After what had passed it would be impossible for him to go to Lady Laura with a passionate tale of his longing for Violet Effingham . 
If he were even to speak to her of love at all , it must be quite of another love than that . 
But he never would speak to her of love ; nor , -- as he felt quite sure , -- would she allow him to do so . 
But what astounded him most as he thought of the interview which had just passed , was the fact that the Lady Laura whom he had known , -- whom he had thought he had known , -- should have become so subject to such a man as Mr. Kennedy , a man whom he had despised as being weak , irresolute , and without a purpose ! 
`` I shall follow you almost immediately , '' said the Earl confidentially to Phineas , when the candidate for the borough took his departure from Loughlinter . 
Phineas took his leave from Mr. Kennedy , with a warm expression of friendship on the part of his host , and from Lady Laura with a mere touch of the hand . 
On the day after the departure of Phineas Finn for Loughton Lady Laura Kennedy still had a headache . 
Phineas , although he was at the present moment the member for Loughton himself , could not but enjoy the joke of this . 
`` They all seemed to be very obliging , '' said Phineas , in answer to the Earl . 
So sudden , indeed , and so confidential was the conversation , that Phineas was almost silenced for awhile . 
`` I hope she is , '' said Phineas . 
`` It is very sad , '' said Phineas . 
This was so true that Phineas did not dare to contradict the statement , and therefore said nothing . 
Phineas had felt that the Earl had put him down rather sharply when he had said that Violet would never accept Lord Chiltern , and he was therefore not a little surprised when Lord Brentford spoke again of Miss Effingham the following morning , holding in his hand a letter which he had just received from her . 
`` Well , no ; I think not , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas made no reply to this , but smiled slightly . 
Phineas , who would have given all he had in the world to be staying in the same country house with Violet Effingham , could not explain how it had come to pass that he was obliged to absent himself . 
`` I explained to him after that , '' said Phineas , `` that I should not return . 
He went up from Saulsby to London on that day , and found himself quite alone in Mrs. Bunce 's lodgings . 
I mean not only that he was alone at his lodgings , but he was alone at his club , and alone in the streets . 
Phineas , as he sat alone in his room , felt himself to be nobody . 
He had told the Earl that he was going to Ireland , and to Ireland he must go ; -- because he had nothing else to do . 
Phineas , indeed , was driven to confess to himself that success with Violet would at once have put an end to all his friendship with Lord Brentford ; -- as also to all his friendship with Lord Chiltern . 
He would , in such case , be bound in honour to vacate his seat and give back Loughton to his offended patron . 
But he would have given up much more than his seat for Violet Effingham ! 
At present , however , he had no means of getting at her to ask her the question . 
He could hardly go to Loughlinter in opposition to the wishes of Lady Laura . 
A little adventure happened to him in London which somewhat relieved the dulness of the days of the first week in August . 
He remained in London till the middle of August , half resolving to rush down to Saulsby when Violet Effingham should be there , -- endeavouring to find some excuse for such a proceeding , but racking his brains in vain , -- and then there came about his little adventure . 
`` Yours always , Q.S. '' Phineas was not only surprised , but disgusted also , at the receipt of this letter . 
He could not imagine what was the deed by which he had offended Mr. Slide . 
He thought over all the circumstances of his short connection with the People 's Banner , but could remember nothing which might have created offence . 
But his disgust was greater than his surprise . 
He thought that he had done nothing and said nothing to justify Quintus Slide in calling him `` dear Finn . '' 
He , who had Lady Laura 's secret in his keeping ; he who hoped to be the possessor of Violet Effingham 's affections , -- he to be called `` dear Finn '' by such a one as Quintus Slide ! 
He soon made up his mind that he would not answer the note , but would go at once to the People 's Banner office at the hour at which Quintus Slide was always there . 
He certainly would not write to `` dear Slide ; '' and , until he had heard something more of this cause of offence , he would not make an enemy for ever by calling the man `` dear Sir . '' 
`` I suppose you 're very busy , '' said Phineas , inserting himself with some difficulty on to a little stool in the corner of the cupboard . 
said Phineas . 
`` The 12th , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas suggested Callender or Stirling . 
Phineas , as he repeated the words , was quite in the dark as to Mr. Slide 's meaning . 
Did Mr. Slide intend to convey a reproach because Phineas had not personally sent some tidings of the election to the People 's Banner ? 
`` Upon my word , I do n't know what you mean , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas , quite satisfied at the result of the interview as regarded himself , and by no means sorry that there should have arisen a cause of separation between Mr. Quintus Slide and his `` dear Finn , '' shook off a little dust from his foot as he left the office of the People 's Banner , and resolved that in future he would attempt to make no connection in that direction . 
When such a patron as Lord Brentford , -- himself a Cabinet Minister with a sinecure , -- could by his mere word put into the House such a stick as Phineas Finn , -- a man who had struggled to stand on his legs before the Speaker , but had wanted both the courage and the capacity , nothing further could surely be wanted to prove that the Reform Bill of 1832 required to be supplemented by some more energetic measure . 
Phineas laughed as he read the article , and declared to himself that the joke was a good joke . 
But , nevertheless , he suffered . 
On the 10th of August , Phineas Finn did return to Loughton . 
He went down by the mail train on the night of the 10th , having telegraphed to the inn for a bed , and was up eating his breakfast in that hospitable house at nine o'clock . 
Phineas had been thinking of making this sudden visit to Loughton ever since he had been up in town , but he could suggest to himself no reason to be given to Lord Brentford for his sudden reappearance . 
Phineas was so well aware of this himself that often as he had half resolved during the last ten days to return to Saulsby , so often had he determined that he could not do so . 
He could think of no excuse . 
Then the heavens favoured him , and he received a letter from Lord Chiltern , in which there was a message for Lord Brentford . 
To this Phineas could say nothing out loud , but he told himself that all should be fair between them . 
He would take no dishonest advantage of Lord Chiltern . 
Then Phineas declared that he also must return to London very early on the morrow ; -- but in the meantime he would go to the inn and fetch his things . 
The Earl thanked him again and again for his generous kindness ; and Phineas , blushing as he received the thanks , went back and wrote his letter to Lord Chiltern . 
For the Earl had been speaking well of his young member , and Phineas had in a way grown into the good graces of sober and discreet people . 
`` Of course he 'll like it , '' said Violet ; `` do you suppose Mr. Finn will object to ride with me in Saulsby Woods ? 
Mr. Finn knows me too well to mind it much . '' 
It was past five before they were on horseback , and up to that time Phineas had not found himself alone with Violet Effingham for a moment . 
Nothing could be more pleasant than Miss Effingham 's words , or more familiar than her manner to Phineas . 
She had expressed strong delight at his success in getting a seat in Parliament , and had talked to him about the Kennedys as though they had created some special bond of union between her and Phineas which ought to make them intimate . 
But he thought that he might have a chance on horseback ; and after they had been out about half an hour , chance did favour him . 
For awhile he rode behind with the carriage , calculating that by his so doing the Earl would be put off his guard , and would be disposed after awhile to change places with him . 
Then Violet pulled up , allowing the vehicle to pass the bridge first , and in this way she and Phineas were brought together , -- and in this way they rode on . 
But he was aware that he must greatly increase the distance between them and the others of their party before he could dare to plead his suit , and even were that done he felt that he would not know how to plead it on horseback . 
Phineas declared that he remembered it well . 
Phineas said that he would not mind , and trotted on to tell them in the carriage . 
asked Lady Baldock ; and then , when Phineas explained , she begged the Earl to go back to Violet . 
The Earl , feeling the absurdity of this , declared that Violet knew her way very well herself , and thus Phineas got his opportunity . 
`` I understand it all , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas knew that in this emergency it was his especial duty to be honest . 
Phineas replied that he thought it was to be done . 
`` I 'll tell you the truth at once , Miss Effingham , '' he said . 
Phineas said that he thought it was absurd ; and then they rode on again , cantering through the wood . 
He had been bold to speak to her about Lord Chiltern as he had done , and she had answered just as he would have wished to be answered . 
`` Mr. Finn , '' she said , `` I wonder whether I may ask a question ? '' 
`` Or between you and him ? '' 
Phineas could not find another moment in which to speak to her . 
Though he spent the evening with her , and stood over her as she sang at the Earl 's request , and pressed her hand as she went to bed , and was up to see her start in the morning , he could not draw from her either a word or a look . 
Phineas Finn went to Ireland immediately after his return from Saulsby , having said nothing further to Violet Effingham , and having heard nothing further from her than what is recorded in the last chapter . 
He felt very keenly that his position was unsatisfactory , and brooded over it all the autumn and early winter ; but he could form no plan for improving it . 
A dozen times he thought of writing to Miss Effingham , and asking for an explicit answer . 
He could not , however , bring himself to write the letter , thinking that written expressions of love are always weak and vapid , -- and deterred also by a conviction that Violet , if driven to reply in writing , would undoubtedly reply by a refusal . 
Fifty times he rode again in his imagination his ride in Saulsby Wood , and he told himself as often that the syren 's answer to him , -- her no , no , no , -- had been , of all possible answers , the most indefinite and provoking . 
The tone of her voice as she galloped away from him , the bearing of her countenance when he rejoined her , her manner to him when he saw her start from the Castle in the morning , all forbade him to believe that his words to her had been taken as an offence . 
She had replied to him with a direct negative , simply with the word `` no ; '' but she had so said it that there had hardly been any sting in the no ; and he had known at the moment that whatever might be the result of his suit , he need not regard Violet Effingham as his enemy . 
But the doubt made his sojourn in Ireland very wearisome to him . 
And there were other matters which tended also to his discomfort , though he was not left even at this period of his life without a continuation of success which seemed to be very wonderful . 
And , first , I will say a word of his discomfort . 
He heard not a line from Lord Chiltern in answer to the letter which he had written to his lordship . 
`` I think , Phineas , '' said his sister , `` we had better say nothing about dear Mary . 
Phineas had demanded , -- understanding the whole matter thoroughly . 
Then his sister had demurely refused to say a word further on the subject , and not a word further was said about Miss Mary Flood Jones . 
They were at Floodborough , living , he did not doubt , in a very desolate way , -- and quite willing , he did not doubt also , to abandon their desolation if he would go over there in the manner that would become him after what had passed on one or two occasions between him and the young lady . 
But how was he to do this with such work on his hands as he had undertaken ? 
Now that he was in Ireland , he thought that he did love dear Mary very dearly . 
He felt that he had two identities , -- that he was , as it were , two separate persons , -- and that he could , without any real faithlessness , be very much in love with Violet Effingham in his position of man of fashion and member of Parliament in England , and also warmly attached to dear little Mary Flood Jones as an Irishman of Killaloe . 
And now she died , leaving # 3,000 to her nephew Phineas Finn . 
Phineas in truth did do some work during the autumn , reading bluebooks , reading law books , reading perhaps a novel or two at the same time , -- but shutting himself up very carefully as he studied , so that his sisters were made to understand that for a certain four hours in the day not a sound was to be allowed to disturb him . 
On the receipt of his legacy he at once offered to repay his father all money that had been advanced him over and above his original allowance ; but this the doctor refused to take . 
`` It comes to the same thing , Phineas , '' he said . 
Phineas , therefore , when he returned to London , had his # 3,000 in his pocket . 
He owed some # 500 ; and the remainder he would , of course , invest . 
The country did wait till February , somewhat to the disappointment of Phineas Finn , who had become tired of blue-books at Killaloe . 
The difference between his English life and his life at home was so great , that it was hardly possible that he should not become weary of the latter . 
He did become weary of it , but strove gallantly to hide his weariness from his father and mother . 
Phineas was up in London before the end of January , but did not find there many of those whom he wished to see . 
But , nevertheless , Mr. Monk 's letter was not received with that respectful admiration which Phineas thought that it deserved . 
Phineas , foolishly , had read it out loud , so that the attack came upon him simultaneously from the husband and from the wife . 
said Phineas . 
`` Then you 'd better have a paternal government at once , '' said Phineas . 
`` But such a man as you would not be sent to Cayenne , '' said Phineas . 
Then Phineas became aware that it is not easy to convince any man or any woman on a point of politics , -- not even though he who argues may have an eloquent letter from a philosophical Cabinet Minister in his pocket to assist him . 
Phineas had of course seen Mr. Kennedy and had heard from him tidings of his wife . 
Mr. Kennedy , as it appeared , did not quite know when he was to expect his wife ; and Phineas thought that he could perceive from the tone of the husband 's voice that something was amiss . 
He could not however ask any questions excepting such as referred to the expected arrival . 
This , however , he did so awkwardly as to strengthen the feeling with Phineas that something assuredly was wrong . 
`` I suppose she is like other beautiful girls who are petted on all sides , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas could not help thinking of Lord Chiltern 's opinion that it would have been wise to have left Mr. Kennedy in the hands of the garrotters . 
Phineas got a note from her in three words to say that she was at home and would see him if he called on Sunday afternoon . 
Phineas was now more certain than ever that something was wrong . 
You will speak , Mr. Finn ? '' 
`` Yes , '' said Phineas ; `` I think we shall ; but by the votes of men who are determined so to pull the bill to pieces in committee , that its own parents will not know it . 
`` I do n't know that Mr. Gresham 's temper is more enduring than Mr. Mildmay 's , '' said Phineas . 
`` Let us say the House of Lords , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas sat there for half an hour and then got up to go , having spoken no word on any other subject than that of politics . 
He longed to ask after Violet . 
He longed to make some inquiry respecting Lord Chiltern . 
asked Phineas . 
And then Phineas prepared to go . 
`` One word , Mr. Finn , '' said Lady Laura , hardly looking him in the face and yet making an effort to do so . 
`` It shall be as though it were forgotten , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas as he walked across the park towards his club made up his mind that he would forget the scene by the waterfall . 
He had never quite known what it had meant , and he would wipe it away from his mind altogether . 
He acknowledged to himself that chivalry did demand of him that he should never allow himself to think of Lady Laura 's rash words to him . 
On the Monday morning Phineas called at Mauregy 's Hotel at ten o'clock , but in spite of Lady Laura 's assurance to the contrary , he found that Lord Chiltern was out . 
What Lady Laura had said about her brother did not in the estimation of Phineas make this at all the less probable . 
And yet , as Phineas thought , it was necessary that he should see the halfmad lord . 
He had written a letter to which he had received no reply , and he considered it to be incumbent on him to ask whether it had been received and whether any answer to it was intended to be given . 
He went therefore to Lord Chiltern at once , -- as I have said , with some feeling at his heart that there might be violence , at any rate of words , before he should find himself again in the street . 
Then Phineas wrote a note and left it with the porter . 
`` Yours , always , P.F. '' No message came to him at the Reform Club , and he was in his seat in the House by four o'clock . 
During the debate a note was brought to him , which ran as follows : -- `` I have got your letter this moment . 
-- C. '' Phineas at once perceived that the note was a hostile note , written in an angry spirit , -- written to one whom the writer did not at the moment acknowledge to be his friend . 
This was certainly the case , whatever Lord Chiltern may have said to his sister as to his friendship for Phineas . 
Phineas crushed the note into his pocket , and of course determined that he would be in his rooms at the hour named . 
In the course of the debate on Tuesday , Phineas got upon his legs . 
The reader , I trust , will remember that hitherto he had failed altogether as a speaker . 
On one occasion he had lacked even the spirit to use and deliver an oration which he had prepared . 
On a second occasion he had broken down , -- woefully , and past all redemption , as said those who were not his friends , -- unfortunately , but not past redemption , as said those who were his true friends . 
After that once again he had arisen and said a few plain words which had called for no remark , and had been spoken as though he were in the habit of addressing the House daily . 
Phineas himself diligently attempted to forget that such was the case . 
He had prepared for himself a few headings of what he intended to say , and on one or two points had arranged his words . 
His hope was that even though he should forget the words , he might still be able to cling to the thread of his discourse . 
When he found himself again upon his legs amidst those crowded seats , for a few moments there came upon him that old sensation of awe . 
Again things grew dim before his eyes , and again he hardly knew at which end of that long chamber the Speaker was sitting . 
Phineas Finn answered not a word ; but he went home and lay awake all night triumphant . 
Phineas , when he woke , had two matters to occupy his mind , -- his success of the previous night , and his coming interview with Lord Chiltern . 
He stayed at home the whole morning , knowing that nothing could be done before the hour Lord Chiltern had named for his visit . 
It was as follows : -- `` Dear Mr. Finn , `` We are all talking about your speech . 
The moment in which Phineas refolded this note and put it into his breast coat-pocket was , I think , the happiest of his life . 
Then , before he had withdrawn his hand from his breast , he remembered that what was now about to take place between him and Lord Chiltern would probably be the means of separating him altogether from Lady Laura and her family . 
Nay , might it not render it necessary that he should abandon the seat in Parliament which had been conferred upon him by the personal kindness of Lord Brentford ? 
Phineas went forward immediately with his hand out to meet his visitor . 
`` Chiltern , '' he said , `` I am very glad to see you . '' 
Then he chucked a letter across the table to the spot at which Phineas was standing . 
Phineas , taking up the letter , perceived that it was that which he , in his great attempt to be honest , had written from the inn at Loughton . 
`` It is my own letter to you , '' he said . 
This question he asked very slowly , pausing between the words , and looking full into the face of his rival , towards whom he had gradually come nearer . 
And his countenance , as he did so , was by no means pleasant . 
The redness of his complexion had become more ruddy than usual ; he still wore his hat as though with studied insolence ; his right hand was clenched ; and there was that look of angry purpose in his eye which no man likes to see in the eye of an antagonist . 
Phineas was afraid of no violence , personal to himself ; but he was afraid of , -- of what I may , perhaps , best call `` a row . '' 
To be tumbling over the chairs and tables with his late friend and present enemy in Mrs. Bunce 's room would be most unpleasant to him . 
If there were to be blows he , too , must strike ; -- and he was very averse to strike Lady Laura 's brother , Lord Brentford 's son , Violet Effingham 's friend . 
`` I suppose I remember what you mean , '' said Phineas . 
`` I have done nothing unworthy , '' said Phineas . 
Lord Chiltern had now come quite close to Phineas , and Phineas felt that that clenched fist might be in his face in half a moment . 
Miss Effingham of course was not engaged to him , but it seemed to him that if he were now so to declare , such declaration would appear to have been drawn from him by fear . 
`` Whether I tell you or not , you know that I am not a coward , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas paused for a moment , thinking what honesty of purpose and a high spirit would , when combined together , demand of him , and together with these requirements he felt that he was bound to join some feeling of duty towards Miss Effingham . 
`` Let me have your question again , '' said Phineas , `` and I will answer it if I find that I can do so without loss of self-respect . '' 
`` Stop , Chiltern , '' said Phineas , stepping back , so that there was some article of furniture between him and his adversary . 
Phineas felt at the moment that the fighting of a duel would be destructive to all his political hopes . 
And a duel between him and Lord Brentford 's son must , as he thought , separate him from Violet , from Lady Laura , from Lord Brentford , and from his borough . 
And let me assure you , Mr. Finn , that there will be a meeting between us after some fashion , let the ideas of your friend Mr. Fitzgibbon be what they may . '' 
Phineas , as soon as he was alone , walked down to the House , at which there was an early sitting . 
It certainly was true that Lord Chiltern had not given up his hopes , and that he had spoken probably more openly to Phineas respecting them than he had done to any other human being . 
If it was true that he had been false , then he must comply with any requisition which Lord Chiltern might make , -- short of voluntarily giving up the lady . 
Laurence Fitzgibbon did not come to the House , and Phineas looked for him at both the clubs which he frequented , -- leaving a note at each as he did not find him . 
He also left a note for him at his lodgings in Duke Street . 
After that , Phineas went up to Portman Square , in accordance with the instructions received from Lady Laura . 
There he saw Violet Effingham , meeting her for the first time since he had parted from her on the great steps at Saulsby . 
Of course he spoke to her , and of course she was gracious to him . 
But her graciousness was only a smile and his speech was only a word . 
Phineas , however , was most struck by finding that Laurence Fitzgibbon was there , and that Mr. Kennedy was not . 
`` I must speak to you as we go away , '' said Phineas , whispering a word into Fitzgibbon 's ear . 
And Phineas Finn , throwing back , now and again , a thought to Killaloe , found himself among them as one of themselves . 
`` Come along , Phineas , if you mean to come , '' said Laurence Fitzgibbon . 
Phineas was of course bound to go , though Lady Glencora was still talking Radicalism , and Violet Effingham was still smiling ineffably . 
`` I knew it was a duel ; -- bedad I did , '' said Laurence Fitzgibbon , standing at the corner of Orchard Street and Oxford Street , when Phineas had half told his story . 
Then Phineas was allowed to proceed and finish his story . 
By this time Phineas had come to think that the duel was in very truth the best way out of the difficulty . 
It was a bad way out , but then it was a way ; -- and he could not see any other . 
Phineas felt very certain that he would not hit Lord Chiltern in an awkward place , although he was by no means sure of his hand . 
Let come what might , he would aim at his adversary . 
But of this he had thought it proper to say nothing to Laurence Fitzgibbon . 
On the Thursday Phineas had shown himself in the House , but during the remainder of this interesting period he was absent from his place , nor was he seen at the clubs , nor did any man know of his whereabouts . 
I think that Lady Laura Kennedy was the first to miss him with any real sense of his absence . 
On the Sunday which afforded some rest in the middle of the great Reform debate Lady Laura asked for Mr. Finn , and no one could answer her question . 
Barrington Erle knew nothing of Phineas , -- had heard nothing ; but was able to say that Fitzgibbon had been with Mr. Ratler , the patronage secretary and liberal whip , early on Thursday , expressing his intention of absenting himself for two days . 
Not ten minutes after the telling of this little story , Fitzgibbon entered the room in Portman Square , and Lady Laura at once asked him after Phineas . 
`` Mr. Finn has not been with you , then ? '' 
I should n't wonder if it is n't an asylum he 's in before the session is over . '' 
Not the slightest prick of conscience disturbed him when he told Lady Laura that he had been in Paris , and that he knew nothing of Phineas Finn . 
But , in truth , during the last day or two he had been in Flanders , and not in Paris , and had stood as second with his friend Phineas on the sands at Blankenberg , a little fishing-town some twelve miles distant from Bruges , and had left his friend since that at an hotel at Ostend , -- with a wound just under the shoulder , from which a bullet had been extracted . 
Phineas went to Ostend by Dover and Calais , but he took the day route on Friday . 
But one shot had been exchanged , and Phineas had been wounded in the right shoulder . 
He had proposed to exchange another shot with his left hand , declaring his capability of shooting quite as well with the left as with the right ; but to this both Colepepper and Fitzgibbon had objected . 
Phineas indeed had not once named Violet to Fitzgibbon , speaking of her always as the lady in question ; and though Laurence correctly surmised the identity of the young lady , he never hinted that he had even guessed her name . 
Of course his lordship 's late friend Phineas would give no such pledge , and therefore Lord Chiltern moved off the ground and back to Blankenberg and Bruges , and into Brussels , in still living enmity with our hero . 
Laurence and the doctor took Phineas back to Ostend , and though the bullet was then in his shoulder , Phineas made his way through Blankenberg after such a fashion that no one there knew what had occurred . 
Dr. O'Shaughnessy remained during the Sunday and Monday at Ostend with his patient , and the people at the inn only knew that Mr. Finn had sprained his shoulder badly ; and on the Tuesday they came back to London again , viâ Calais and Dover . 
No bone had been broken , and Phineas , though his shoulder was very painful , bore the journey well . 
O'Shaughnessy had received a telegram on the Monday , telling him that the division would certainly take place on the Tuesday , -- and on the Tuesday , at about ten in the evening , Phineas went down to the House . 
`` By -- , you 're here , '' said Ratler , taking hold of him with an affection that was too warm . 
`` Yes ; I 'm here , '' said Phineas , wincing in agony ; `` but be a little careful , there 's a good fellow . 
In this way Phineas Finn spoke in the debate , and heard the end of it , voting for his party , and fought his duel with Lord Chiltern in the middle of it . 
He did go and sit on a well-cushioned bench in the smoking-room , and then was interrogated by many of his friends as to his mysterious absence . 
He had , he said , been down in Kent , and had had an accident with his arm , by which he had been confined . 
One indiscreet questioner , however , did trouble Phineas sorely , declaring that there must have been some affair in which a woman had had a part , and asking after the young lady of Kent . 
This indiscreet questioner was Laurence Fitzgibbon , who , as Phineas thought , carried his spirit of intrigue a little too far . 
Phineas stayed and voted , and then he went painfully home to his lodgings . 
How singular would it be if this affair of the duel should pass away , and no one be a bit the wiser but those four men who had been with him on the sands at Blankenberg ! 
Again he wondered at his own luck . 
He had told himself that a duel with Lord Chiltern must create a quarrel between him and Lord Chiltern 's relations , and also between him and Violet Effingham ; that it must banish him from his comfortable seat for Loughton , and ruin him in regard to his political prospects . 
Lord Chiltern , during their interview at the rooms in Great Marlborough Street , had said a word to him about the seat in Parliament ; -- had expressed some opinion that as he , Phineas Finn , was interfering with the views of the Standish family in regard to Miss Effingham , he ought not to keep the Standish seat , which had been conferred upon him in ignorance of any such intended interference . 
Phineas , as he thought of this , could not remember Lord Chiltern 's words , but there was present to him an idea that such had been their purport . 
`` During the late debate , '' -- so ran a passage in the leading article , -- `` Mr. Finn , Lord Brentford 's Irish nominee for his pocket-borough at Loughton , did at last manage to stand on his legs and open his mouth . 
If we are not mistaken , this is Mr. Finn 's third session in Parliament , and hitherto he has been unable to articulate three sentences , though he has on more than one occasion made the attempt . 
said Phineas to himself , as he read this . 
By the time that Mr. Mildmay 's great bill was going into committee Phineas was able to move about London in comfort , -- with his arm , however , still in a sling . 
There had been nothing more about him and his wound in the People 's Banner , and he was beginning to hope that that nuisance would also be allowed to die away . 
He had seen Lady Laura , -- having dined in Grosvenor Place , where he had been petted to his heart 's content . 
His dinner had been cut up for him , and his wound had been treated with the tenderest sympathy . 
He had been to Kent and had come by an accident . 
No more than that was told , and his dear sympathising friends were content to receive so much information , and to ask for no more . 
But he had not as yet seen Violet Effingham , and he was beginning to think that this romance about Violet might as well be brought to a close . 
He had not , however , as yet been able to go into crowded rooms , and unless he went out to large parties he could not be sure that he would meet Miss Effingham . 
At last he resolved that he would tell Lady Laura the whole truth , -- not the truth about the duel , but the truth about Violet Effingham , and ask for her assistance . 
When making this resolution , I think that he must have forgotten much that he had learned of his friend 's character ; and by making it , I think that he showed also that he had not learned as much as his opportunities might have taught him . 
He knew Lady Laura 's obstinacy of purpose , he knew her devotion to her brother , and he knew also how desirous she had been that her brother should win Violet Effingham for himself . 
But beyond all this was the fact , -- a fact as to the consequences of which Phineas himself was entirely blind , beautifully ignorant , -- that Lady Laura had once condescended to love himself . 
Nay ; -- she had gone farther than this , and had ventured to tell him , even after her marriage , that the remembrance of some feeling that had once dwelt in her heart in regard to him was still a danger to her . 
She had warned him from Loughlinter , and then had received him in London ; -- and now he selected her as his confidante in this love affair ! 
Had he not been beautifully ignorant and most modestly blind , he would surely have placed his confidence elsewhere . 
She had , indeed , learned to tell herself that she could not love her husband ; and once , in the excitement of such silent announcements to herself , she had asked herself whether her heart was quite a blank , and had answered herself by desiring Phineas Finn to absent himself from Loughlinter . 
What though Phineas Finn had been in the same house with her throughout all the winter , could not she have so lived with him on terms of friendship , that every deed and word and look of her friendship might have been open to her husband , -- or open to all the world ? 
So she told herself , and again admitted Phineas to her intimacy in London . 
But , nevertheless , Phineas , had he not been beautifully ignorant and most blind to his own achievements , would not have expected from Lady Laura Kennedy assistance with Miss Violet Effingham . 
Phineas knew when to find Lady Laura alone , and he came upon her one day at the favourable hour . 
Phineas stopped her at once . 
`` My dear friend , '' he said , `` I have come to you in a private trouble , and I want you to drop politics for half an hour . 
`` A private trouble , Mr. Finn ! 
`` I would help you in anything in my power , Mr. Finn . 
`` What is it , Mr. Finn ? '' 
And as she spoke the look of her countenance towards him was so changed that he became at once aware that from her no assistance might be expected . 
His eyes were not opened in any degree to the second reason above given for Lady Laura 's opposition to his wishes , but he instantly perceived that she would still cling to that destination of Violet 's hand which had for years past been the favourite scheme of her life . 
`` Have you not always known , Mr. Finn , what have been our hopes for Violet ? '' 
Phineas , though he had perceived his mistake , felt that he must go on with his cause . 
Lady Laura must know his wishes sooner or later , and it was as well that she should learn them in this way as in any other . 
These words were very bitter to Phineas , and yet when he had written his letter at Loughton , he had intended to be so perfectly honest , chivalrously honest ! 
Now Lady Laura spoke to him and looked at him as though he had been most basely false -- most untrue to that noble friendship which had been lavished upon him by all her family . 
He felt that he would become the prey of her most injurious thoughts unless he could fully explain his ideas , and he felt , also , that the circumstances did not admit of his explaining them . 
He could not take up the argument on Violet 's side , and show how unfair it would be to her that she should be debarred from the homage due to her by any man who really loved her , because Lord Chiltern chose to think that he still had a claim , -- or at any rate a chance . 
And Phineas knew well of himself , -- or thought that he knew well , -- that he would not have interfered had there been any chance for Lord Chiltern . 
`` Mr. Finn , '' said Lady Laura , `` I can hardly believe this of you , even when you tell it me yourself . '' 
To this Phineas made no immediate reply . 
There was no reason why he should show his whole hand to an adversary . 
`` I would make mine to none but to herself , '' said Phineas . 
I am not your sister , Mr. Finn . 
Phineas again paused a moment before he replied . 
`` Let him try , '' he said . 
But , Mr. Finn , I believe that Oswald really loves her ; -- and that you do not . 
`` No , indeed ; '' and Phineas smiled as he spoke . 
`` Tell me , Mr. Finn ; what happened ? 
`` Suppose you had killed him , Mr. Finn ? '' 
Then he paused again , regretting what he had said . 
She knew it all now , -- except that word or two which had passed between Violet and Phineas in the rides of Saulsby Park . 
But she suspected something even of that , feeling sure that the only matter on which Phineas would say nothing would be that of his own success , -- if success there had been . 
There was the soreness at her heart still present to her , making her wretched , instigating her to hurt him if she knew how to do so , in spite of her regard for him . 
She had shot her arrows at him , -- all but one , -- and if she used that , its poisoned point would wound herself far more surely than it would touch him . 
`` The duel was very silly , '' he said . 
Yes ; you had better go , Mr. Finn , for I am hardly well . 
Then she smiled and gave him her hand , and he went . 
She rose from her chair as he left the room , and waited till she heard the sound of the great door closing behind him before she again sat down . 
Then , when he was gone , -- when she was sure that he was no longer there with her in the same house , -- she laid her head down upon the arm of the sofa , and burst into a flood of tears . 
She was no longer angry with Phineas . 
She did not now desire to injure him , though she had done so as long as he was with her . 
Troubled though he was by his quarrel with Lord Chiltern , by his love for Violet Effingham , by the silence of his friend Lady Laura , -- for since he had told her of the duel she had become silent to him , never writing to him , and hardly speaking to him when she met him in society , -- nevertheless Phineas was not so troubled but what he could work at his vocation . 
Now , when he would find himself upon his legs in the House , he would wonder at the hesitation which had lately troubled him so sorely . 
He would sit sometimes and speculate upon that dimness of eye , upon that tendency of things to go round , upon that obtrusive palpitation of heart which had afflicted him so seriously for so long a time . 
The House now was no more to him than any other chamber , and the members no more than other men . 
He guarded himself from orations , speaking always very shortly , -- because he believed that policy and good judgment required that he should be short . 
But words were very easy to him , and he would feel as though he could talk for ever . 
And then quickly came to him a reputation for practical usefulness . 
He was a man with strong opinions , who could yet be submissive . 
So Phineas perceived ; but it was not , he thought , known either to Lord Brentford or to Violet Effingham . 
At first , Phineas had been greatly dismayed when men had asked him questions tending to elicit from him some explanation of the mystery ; -- but by degrees he became used to it , and as the tidings which had got abroad did not seem to injure him , and as the questionings were not pushed very closely , he became indifferent . 
But Phineas had so far progressed that he had almost come to like this kind of thing . 
Certainly I think that the duel did him no harm in society . 
Otherwise he would hardly have been asked to a semi-political dinner at Lady Glencora Palliser 's , even though he might have been invited to make one of the five hundred guests who were crowded into her saloons and staircases after the dinner was over . 
To have been one of the five hundred was nothing ; but to be one of the sixteen was a great deal , -- was indeed so much that Phineas , not understanding as yet the advantage of his own comeliness , was at a loss to conceive why so pleasant an honour was conferred upon him . 
There was no man among the eight men at the dinner-party not in Parliament , -- and the only other except Phineas not attached to the Government was Mr. Palliser 's great friend , John Grey , the member for Silverbridge . 
Lady Laura was there ; -- by what means divided from her husband Phineas could not imagine ; but Lady Glencora was good at such divisions . 
Violet Effingham was in the room also , -- giving Phineas a blow at the heart as he saw her smile . 
Might it be that he could speak a word to her on this occasion ? 
Phineas found that it was his fortune to take down to dinner , -- not Violet Effingham , but Madame Max Goesler . 
Phineas was , therefore , driven to depend exclusively on Madame Max Goesler for conversation , and he found that he was not called upon to cast his seed into barren ground . 
Up to that moment he had never heard of Madame Max Goesler . 
Lady Glencora , in introducing them , had pronounced the lady 's name so clearly that he had caught it with accuracy , but he could not surmise whence she had come , or why she was there . 
Such , as regarded the outward woman , was Madame Max Goesler ; and Phineas , as he took his place by her side , thought that fortune for the nonce had done well with him , -- only that he should have liked it so much better could he have been seated next to Violet Effingham ! 
I have said that in the matter of conversation his morsel of seed was not thrown into barren ground . 
I do not know that he can truly be said to have produced even a morsel . 
`` Mr. Finn , '' she said , `` what would I not give to be a member of the British Parliament at such a moment as this ! '' 
`` Too much of nothingness , Mr. Finn . 
said Madame Max Goesler , -- from which expression , and from one or two others of a similar nature , Phineas was led into a doubt whether the lady were a countrywoman of his or not . 
`` That is a strong programme , '' said Phineas . 
`` It is strong , Mr. Finn , but that 's what I should like . 
But then , Mr. Finn , there is such a difference between life and theory ; -- is there not ? '' 
`` And it is so comfortable to have theories that one is not bound to carry out , '' said Phineas . 
Mr. Finn is saying that it is very well to have far-advanced ideas , -- it does not matter how far advanced , -- because one is never called upon to act upon them practically . '' 
`` But pleasant , -- so at least Mr. Finn says . '' 
`` It is at least very common , '' said Phineas , not caring to protect himself by a contradiction . 
`` Yes , '' said Phineas , `` and taught a Cabinet Minister to believe that I am a most unsound politician . 
Phineas felt that he blushed . 
Could it be that people said of him behind his back that he was a man likely to rise high in political position ? 
`` Your informants are very kind , '' he replied awkwardly , `` but I do not know who they are . 
After that Madame Max Goesler turned round to Mr. Grey , who was sitting on the other side of her , and Phineas was left for a moment in silence . 
He tried to say a word to Lady Hartletop , but Lady Hartletop only bowed her head gracefully in recognition of the truth of the statement he made . 
So he applied himself for a while to his dinner . 
`` Of course I do , '' said Phineas . 
`` I believe so also , '' said Phineas . 
Then he paused a moment before he continued to speak . 
Ten minutes after this , when the moment was just at hand in which the ladies were to retreat , Madame Max Goesler again addressed Phineas , looking very full into his face as she did so . 
`` I wonder whether the time will ever come , Mr. Finn , in which you will give me an account of that day 's journey to Blankenberg ? '' 
thought Phineas , as he sat for a while in silence between Mr. Palliser and Mr. Grey ; and why should she , who was a perfect stranger to him , have dared to ask him such a question ? 
But as the conversation round the table , after the ladies had gone , soon drifted into politics and became general , Phineas , for a while , forgot Madame Max Goesler and the Blankenberg journey , and listened to the eager words of Cabinet Ministers , now and again uttering a word of his won , and showing that he , too , was as eager as others . 
But the session in Mr. Palliser 's dining-room was not long , and Phineas soon found himself making his way amidst a throng of coming guests into the rooms above . 
His object was to meet Violet Effingham , but , failing that , he would not be unwilling to say a few more words to Madame Max Goesler . 
`` That will be two things , Mr. Finn ; but I will answer both questions as well as I can . 
Then Phineas began to roam about the rooms , striving to find an opportunity of engrossing five minutes of Miss Effingham 's attention . 
During the time that Lady Laura was giving him the history of Madame Max Goesler his eyes had wandered round , and he had perceived that Violet was standing in the further corner of a large lobby on to which the stairs opened , -- so situated , indeed , that she could hardly escape , because of the increasing crowd , but on that very account almost impossible to be reached . 
Lord Fawn had been talking to Violet through the whole dinner , and Phineas was beginning to think that he should like to make another journey to Blankenberg , with the object of meeting his lordship on the sands . 
When Lady Laura had done speaking , his eyes were turned through a large open doorway towards the spot on which his idol was standing . 
`` It is of no use , my friend , '' she said , touching his arm . 
To this Phineas made no answer , but went and roamed about the rooms . 
Phineas felt that he ought to give some special reason to Miss Effingham to account for his efforts to reach her , but yet he had nothing special to say . 
You come and see her , Mr. Finn ; -- only you must bring a little money with you for the Female Protestant Unmarried Women 's Emigration Society . 
`` Of course you 'll go , '' said Phineas . 
`` You are much more civil than Mr. Finn , I must say . '' 
Then Phineas began to hope that he need not be afraid of Lord Fawn . 
continued Violet , addressing herself to Phineas . 
If you have anything near your heart , Mr. Finn , Madame Max Goesler touched it , I am sure . '' 
Now Phineas had two things near his heart , -- political promotion and Violet Effingham , -- and Madame Max Goesler had managed to touch them both . 
Then Phineas , choosing to oppose Lord Fawn as well as he could on that matter , as on every other , declared that he had found Madame Max Goesler most delightful . 
`` I think her very beautiful , '' said Phineas . 
Half an hour after this , when Phineas was preparing to fight his way out of the house , he was again close to Madame Max Goesler . 
Phineas , of course , declared that he would be delighted . 
Phineas had now given the order for the carriage , and , having returned , was standing with Madame Max Goesler in the cloak-room . 
`` He is a well-informed man , '' said Phineas . 
`` I do not think he will , '' said Phineas , stoutly . 
Then he put Madame Max Goesler into her carriage , and walked away to his club . 
Now Mr. Phineas Finn had not been asked to the evenings of Lady Baldock for the present season , and the reason was after this wise . 
`` Yes , Mr. Finn , '' Lady Baldock had said to her daughter , who , early in the spring , was preparing the cards . 
`` You may send one to Mr. Finn , certainly . '' 
`` I do n't know that he is very nice , '' said Augusta Boreham , whose eyes at Saulsby had been sharper perhaps than her mother 's , and who had her suspicions . 
`` Mr. Finn , certainly , '' she continued . 
`` They tell me that he is a very rising young man , and he sits for Lord Brentford 's borough . 
Of course he is a Radical , but we can not help that . 
I thought him very civil at Saulsby . '' 
`` Do n't you think that he is a little free with Violet ? '' 
`` Have you not fancied that he is -- fond of her ? '' 
`` I think he is . 
And I have sometimes fancied that she is fond of him , too . '' 
`` Phineas Finn . 
`` Mr. Finn is asked everywhere , Gustavus . '' 
They say he is a very good sort of fellow . 
`` I mean that everybody is saying that this Phineas Finn is going to set himself up in the world by marrying your niece . 
He is quite right to try it on , if he has a chance . '' 
`` I do n't think he would be right at all , '' said Lady Baldock , with much energy . 
`` I think he would be wrong , -- shamefully wrong . 
They say he is the son of an Irish doctor , and that he has n't a shilling in the world . '' 
`` That is just why he would be right . 
The fact is that he and Chiltern have already quarrelled about her . 
If I were to tell you that they have been over to Holland together and fought a duel about her , you would n't believe that . '' 
Then send your card to Mr. Finn . '' 
So she performed her duty , and asked Violet Effingham some few questions respecting Phineas Finn . 
`` My dear , '' she said , `` do you remember meeting a Mr. Finn at Saulsby ? '' 
`` A Mr. Finn , aunt ! 
Why , he is a particular friend of mine . 
Of course I do , and he was at Saulsby . 
I have met him there more than once . 
`` I remember that he was there , certainly ; but I did not know that he was a special -- friend . '' 
`` And do you mean to say that Mr. Finn is , -- is , -- is , -- very good ? '' 
`` He would have done his duty , and so perhaps did Mr. Finn . '' 
`` Of course he did , aunt . 
It could n't have been his duty to stand by and see Mr. Kennedy throttled . 
`` People have been talking about me and Mr. Finn , because I just now , at this very moment , called him A 1 to you ! 
To Mr. Finn , -- and those sort of people . '' 
`` Call Mr. Finn A 1 to his face ! 
`` You have no business to talk to Lord Chiltern about Mr. Finn at all . '' 
`` I said nothing about your marrying Mr. Finn . '' 
And if Mr. Finn asked me to marry him to-morrow , and if I liked him well enough , I would take him , -- even though he had been dug right out of a bog . 
Not only because I liked him , -- mind ! 
Mr. Finn is a fine fellow , and if there were no other reason to prevent my marrying him than his being the son of a doctor , and coming out of the bogs , that would not do so . 
Now I have made a clean breast to you as regards Mr. Finn ; and if you do not like what I 've said , aunt , you must acknowledge that you have brought it on yourself . '' 
But no card was sent to Phineas Finn . 
Phineas get no card from Lady Baldock , but one morning he received a note from Lord Brentford which was of more importance to him than any card could have been . 
Lord Brentford 's note to Phineas Finn was as follows : -- `` House of Lords , 16th May , 186 -- . 
`` My dear Mr. Finn , `` You are no doubt aware that Lord Bosanquet 's death has taken Mr. Mottram into the Upper House , and that as he was Under Secretary for the Colonies , and as the Under Secretary must be in the Lower House , the vacancy must be filled up . '' 
The heart of Phineas Finn at this moment was almost in his mouth . 
Under Secretaries , he fancied , were paid two thousand a year . 
Phineas was himself surprised to find that his first feeling on reading this letter was one of dissatisfaction . 
Here were his golden hopes about to be realised , -- hopes as to the realisation of which he had been quite despondent twelve months ago , -- and yet he was uncomfortable because he was to be postponed to Laurence Fitzgibbon . 
I told him that I did think so . 
` And do you not think , ' said he , ` that it would be a useful appointment ? ' 
Phineas was grateful , but not too grateful , and bore himself very well in the interview . 
He explained to Lord Brentford that of course it was his object to serve the country , -- and to be paid for his services , -- and that he considered himself to be very fortunate to be selected so early in his career for parliamentary place . 
But Phineas said nothing to Lord Brentford about his idle friend . 
`` Of course I will not , '' said Phineas . 
This was the clause as to which so violent an opposition was expected from Mr. Turnbull , -- a clause as to which Phineas himself had felt that he would hardly know how to support the Government , in the event of the committee being pressed to a division upon it . 
Could he , an ardent reformer , a reformer at heart , -- could he say that such a borough as Loughton should be spared ; -- that the arrangement by which Shortribs and Grating had sent him to Parliament , in obedience to Lord Brentford 's orders , was in due accord with the theory of a representative legislature ? 
Now , however , -- now that Phineas had consented to join the Government , any such considerations as these must be laid aside . 
He could no longer be a free agent , or even a free thinker . 
`` Not quite lately , '' said Phineas , blushing up to his eyes . 
`` Or heard from him ? '' 
`` No ; -- nor heard from him . 
`` Ah , -- yes ; he is somewhere on the Rhine now . 
I thought that as you were so intimate , perhaps you corresponded with him . 
`` I wish he would return , '' said Lord Brentford sadly , -- almost solemnly . 
`` As that great difficulty is over , I would receive him willingly , and make my house pleasant to him , if I can do so . 
I am most anxious that he should settle , and marry . 
Could you not write to him ? '' 
Phineas , not daring to tell Lord Brentford that he had quarrelled with Lord Chiltern , -- feeling that if he did so everything would go wrong , -- said that he would write to Lord Chiltern . 
`` I 've got to be so fond of looking after you , Mr. Finn ! 
But we 've got so used to you , Mr. Finn , -- have n't we ? '' 
Had anybody said that Mrs. Bunce was in love with Phineas , the scandal would have been monstrous . 
And Bunce knew it , -- after his fashion . 
`` Do n't be such an old fool , '' he said , `` crying after him because he 's six foot high . '' 
But his anger was excited , not by his wife 's love for Phineas , but by the use of an objectionable word . 
Bunce himself had been on very friendly terms with Phineas , and they two had many discussions on matters of polities , Bunce taking up the cudgels always for Mr. Turnbull , and generally slipping away gradually into some account of his own martyrdom . 
The People 's Banner had fought for him manfully , and therefore there was a little disagreement between him and Phineas on the subject of that great organ of public opinion . 
And as Mr. Bunce thought that his lodger was very wrong to sit for Lord Brentford 's borough , subjects were sometimes touched which were a little galling to Phineas . 
`` Oh yes , '' said he , in answer to an argument from Phineas , `` I suppose there must be lords , as you call 'em ; though for the matter of that I ca n't see as they is of any mortal use . '' 
I 'm not against government ; -- nor yet against laws , Mr. Finn ; though the less of them , too , the better . 
I 'll tell you what they do , Mr. Finn . 
The fact is , Mr. Finn , it 's all wrong with us yet , and will be till we get it nigher to the great American model . 
If a poor man gets into Parliament , -- you 'll excuse me , Mr. Finn , but I calls you a poor man . '' 
Phineas as he heard this doubtful ! 
`` We 've got to change a deal yet , Mr. Finn , and we 'll do it . 
It 's the system as I hates , and not you , Mr. Finn . 
`` Well , you know , Mr. Finn , I think you have begun at the wrong end . 
Well , the truth is , Mr. Finn , that I do not think it is a very good opening for a young man to be made what they call a Lord of the Treasury , -- unless he has got a private fortune , you know , to support that kind of life . '' 
`` You see , Phineas , a ministry is such an uncertain thing , '' said Mr. Low . 
`` Just for the present , '' said Phineas . 
`` You see , after all , Phineas , '' said Mr. Low , `` that I am following your steps . '' 
Soon after that Phineas took his departure from the house , feeling sore and unhappy . 
When Phineas entered the room his first feeling was one of intense joy at seeing that Violet Effingham was present there . 
Now Phineas would have thought it more likely that he should find her in Portman Square than in Grosvenor Place . 
At the same time Violet had been told that Phineas would be there , and so the party had been made up . 
`` I am so glad that Mr. Finn has been made a lord of something , '' said Madame Max Goesler . 
`` I had the pleasure of a long political discussion with him the other night , and I quite approve of him . '' 
`` We are so much gratified , Mr. Finn , '' said Lady Laura . 
This was a question which Phineas did not quite like , and which he was obliged to excuse by remembering that the questioner had lived so long out of England as to be probably ignorant of the myths , and theories , and system , and working of the British Constitution . 
But the question was turned off , and Phineas , with an easy grace , submitted himself to be petted , and congratulated , and purred over , and almost caressed by the three ladies . 
Lady Laura had no misgivings as to Phineas being fit for governing , and Violet Effingham said nothing as to the short-lived tenure of ministers . 
`` It is pleasant to succeed , of course , '' said Phineas , `` let the success be ever so little . '' 
Will you always have to go to that big building in the corner , Mr. Finn , and stay there from ten till four ? 
`` We have a half-holiday on Saturday , you know , '' said Phineas . 
`` Only their own ; and they generally fail in doing that , '' said Phineas . 
He sat there for a considerable time , wondering whether Mr. Kennedy would come in , and wondering also as to what Mr. Kennedy would say to Madame Max Goesler when he did come in . 
Mr. Kennedy did not appear , and Madame Max Goesler with Violet went away , leaving Phineas still sitting with Lady Laura . 
Each of them said a kind word to him as they went . 
Then Phineas made a second promise that he would call in Park Lane . 
Violet blushed as she remembered that she could not ask him to call at Lady Baldock 's . 
`` Good-bye , Mr. Finn , '' she said , giving him her hand . 
`` I told you what was my ambition , and you resented it , '' said Phineas . 
`` But if he can not succeed , '' pleaded Phineas . 
`` Do not do that , Mr. Finn . 
`` I hope in time to get beyond fetching and carrying , '' said Phineas . 
Then Phineas laughed . 
`` I hear , '' said he , `` that Mr. Quintus Slide , of the People 's Banner , has already gone down to canvass the electors . '' 
`` Do you hear what Mr. Finn tells me ? '' 
`` He has heard that Mr. Quintus Slide has gone down to Loughton to stand against him . '' 
Phineas , as he thanked his friend , could not help asking himself what his friend had done to be made a Cabinet Minister . 
Little as he , Phineas , himself had done in the House in his two sessions and a half , Mr. Kennedy had hardly done more in his fifteen or twenty . 
But then Mr. Kennedy was possessed of almost miraculous wealth , and owned half a county , whereas he , Phineas , owned almost nothing at all . 
Soon after this Phineas took his leave . 
`` Why should he not have hopes ? '' 
`` Because he has neither position , nor money , nor birth , '' said Mr. Kennedy . 
`` He is a gentleman , '' said Lady Laura ; `` and I think he has position . 
I do not see why he should not ask any girl to marry him . '' 
You spoke of Mr. Finn as though he would be guilty of some crime were he to ask Violet Effingham to be his wife . 
Mr. Finn is -- '' `` You will make me sick of the name of Mr. Finn . '' 
`` What has that to do with Mr. Finn ? '' 
`` I begin to think I had better tell Mr. Finn not to come here any more , since his presence is disagreeable to you . 
All the world knows how great is the service he did you , and it will seem to be very ridiculous . 
She had found out and confessed to herself that she did love , and could not help loving , Phineas Finn . 
Then she had resolved to banish him from her presence , and had gone the length of telling him so . 
After that she had perceived that she had been wrong , and had determined to meet him as she met other men , -- and to conquer her love . 
She had just begun to love after this fashion , had taught herself to believe that she might combine something of the pleasure of idolatry towards her friend with a full complement of duty towards her husband , when Phineas came to her with his tale of love for Violet Effingham . 
Her anger at his love for her brother 's wished-for bride was lost in her dismay that Phineas should love any one after having once loved her . 
But by sheer force of mind she had conquered that dismay , that feeling of desolation at her heart , and had almost taught herself to hope that Phineas might succeed with Violet . 
He wished it , -- and why should he not have what he wished , -- he , whom she so fondly idolised ? 
It was not his fault that he and she were not man and wife . 
She had chosen to arrange it otherwise , and was she not bound to assist him now in the present object of his reasonable wishes ? 
And now she was accused of idolatry for Phineas by her husband , -- she with `` a lot of others , '' in which lot Violet was of course included . 
There was doubtless in her mind considerable confusion on the subject , for she did not know whether Lord Chiltern or Mr. Finn was the suitor whom she most feared , -- and she was aware , after a sort of muddled fashion , that the claims of these two wicked young men were antagonistic to each other . 
`` Just this , -- that if you like to marry Phineas Finn , I will say that you are right . '' 
And why am I to marry Phineas Finn ? '' 
`` Only for two reasons ; because he loves you , and because -- '' `` No , -- I deny it . 
He was your great friend . '' 
`` Why have you come to tell me to marry Mr. Phineas Finn ? 
Mr. Phineas Finn , as far as I am aware , has not a shilling in the world , -- except a month 's salary now due to him from the Government . 
Mr. Phineas Finn I believe to be the son of a country doctor in Ireland , -- with about seven sisters . 
Mr. Phineas Finn is a Roman Catholic . 
Mr. Phineas Finn is , -- or was a short time ago , -- in love with another lady ; and Mr. Phineas Finn is not so much in love at this moment but what he is able to intrust his cause to an ambassador . 
`` Has he never pleaded his cause to you himself ? '' 
It seems that if he has , his success was so trifling that he has thought he had better trust some one else for the future . '' 
`` He has not trusted me . 
He has not given me any commission . '' 
`` Because , -- I hardly know how to tell his story . 
There have been things about Oswald which made it almost necessary that Mr. Finn should explain himself to me . '' 
Gustavus knows all about it , and I feel that I am living at his mercy . 
`` Then I hope that Mr. Finn may succeed . 
I want him to succeed in everything . 
He is my Phoebus Apollo . '' 
Phineas had certainly no desire to make love by an ambassador , -- at second-hand . 
He had given no commission to Lady Laura , and was , as the reader is aware , quite ignorant of what was being done and said on his behalf . 
Phineas destroyed the note , tearing it into atoms , the moment that he had read it and re-read it . 
Of course he would go to Portman Square at the hour named . 
Of course he would take his chance . 
He was not buoyed up by much of hope ; -- but even though there were no hope , he would take his chance . 
When Lord Brentford had first told Phineas of his promotion , he had also asked the new Lord of the Treasury to make a certain communication on his behalf to his son . 
This Phineas had found himself obliged to promise to do ; -- and he had done it . 
The letter had been difficult enough to write , -- but he had written it . 
After having made the promise , he had found himself bound to keep it . 
`` Dear Lord Chiltern , '' he had commenced , `` I will not think that there was anything in our late encounter to prevent my so addressing you . 
Then he explained at length Lord Brentford 's wishes as he understood them . 
`` Pray come home , '' he said , finishing his letter . 
-- Yours always , `` Phineas Finn . '' 
Now he had to try his fortune , -- that fortune of which he had told Lord Chiltern that he had no reason for hoping that it would be good . 
He went direct from his office at the Treasury to Portman Square , resolving that he would take no trouble as to his dress , simply washing his hands and brushing his hair as though he were going down to the House , and he knocked at the Earl 's door exactly at the hour named by Lady Laura . 
`` Miss Effingham , '' he said , `` I am so glad to find you alone . '' 
`` With such allies you can have nothing to fear , '' he replied , attempting to carry on a little jest . 
`` Nor even without them , Mr. Finn . 
`` All the same , -- but I do n't like to be caught in a trap , Mr. Finn . '' 
He paused a moment before he replied . 
`` In such matters you should never talk to any one , Mr. Finn . 
He paused , hardly knowing what the question was which he proposed to himself to ask . 
Mr. Finn , I could say pleasant things to you on any other subject than this , -- because I like you . '' 
He paused a moment before he spoke further . 
`` I shall wait , '' he said , `` and come again . '' 
Come , Mr. Finn , -- say that you will take an answer , and I will give you my hand . '' 
`` Give it me , '' said he . 
She gave him her hand , and he put it up to his lips and pressed it . 
`` I will wait and come again , '' he said . 
Then he turned from her and went out of the house . 
At the corner of the square he saw Lady Laura 's carriage , but did not stop to speak to her . 
And she also saw him . 
Mr. Finn is a cat of the latter kind , and has had his afternoon 's diversion . '' 
`` You wrong him there . '' 
I do not mean to say that he would not have liked me to accept him . 
But , if I can see inside his bosom , such a little job as that he has now done will be looked back upon as one of the past pleasures of his life ; -- not as a pain . '' 
It will be necessary that we should go back in our story for a very short period in order that the reader may be told that Phineas Finn was duly re-elected at Loughton after his appointment at the Treasury Board . 
There was some little trouble at Loughton , and something more of expense than he had before encountered . 
The speech had been very severe upon our hero ; and though the speaker had been so hooted and pelted at Loughton as to have been altogether inaudible , -- so maltreated that in point of fact he had not been able to speak above a tenth part of his speech at all , -- nevertheless the speech did give Phineas a certain amount of pain . 
Why Phineas should have read it who can tell ? 
Mr. Phineas Finn , who had previously served in Parliament as the lacquey of an Irish earl , and had been turned off by him , had now fallen into the service of the English earl , and was the lacquey chosen for the present occasion . 
In those days , -- and they would come soon , -- Mr. Quintus Slide rather thought that Mr. Phineas Finn would be found `` nowhere , '' and he rather thought also that when he showed himself again , as he certainly should do , in the midst of that democratic electoral district as the popular candidate for the honour of representing it in Parliament , that democratic electoral district would accord to him a reception very different from that which he was now receiving from the Earl 's lacqueys in the parliamentary village of Loughton . 
A prettier bit of fiction than these sentences as composing a part of any speech delivered , or proposed to be delivered , at Loughton , Phineas thought he had never seen . 
And when he read at the close of the speech that though the Earl 's hired bullies did their worst , the remarks of Mr. Slide were received by the people with reiterated cheering , he threw himself back in his chair at the Treasury and roared . 
The sins of Phineas , who in spite of his inability to open his mouth in public had been made a Treasury hack by the aristocratic influence , -- `` by aristocratic influence not confined to the male sex , '' -- were described at great length , and in such language that Phineas for a while was fool enough to think that it would be his duty to belabour Mr. Slide with a horsewhip . 
This notion , however , did not endure long with him , and when Mr. Monk told him that things of that kind came as a matter of course , he was comforted . 
But he found it much more difficult to obtain comfort when he weighed the arguments brought forward against the abominations of such a borough as that for which he sat , and reflected that if Mr. Turnbull brought forward his clause , he , Phineas Finn , would be bound to vote against the clause , knowing the clause to be right , because he was a servant of the Government . 
The arguments , even though they appeared in the People 's Banner , were true arguments ; and he had on one occasion admitted their truth to his friend Lady Laura , -- in the presence of that great Cabinet Minister , her husband . 
`` I do n't suppose anybody does want Mr. Quintus Slide , '' Phineas had replied ; `` but I am disposed to think the electors should choose the man they do want , and that at present they have no choice left to them . '' 
`` Then , Lady Laura , '' continued Phineas , `` that alone should be sufficient to prove that their privilege of returning a member to Parliament is too much for them . 
Phineas , who replied to this , and who told Mr. Turnbull that he himself could not answer for any peers , -- but that he thought it probable that most peers would , by their opinions , somewhat influence the opinions of some electors , -- was thought to have got out of his difficulty very well . 
Phineas , though he had made his little speech in answer to Mr. Turnbull with good-humoured flippancy , had recorded his vote in favour of the seven boroughs with a sort heart . 
`` It is the influence of the peer , not the paucity of the electors , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas had no answer to make , but he was not happy in his mind . 
And he was the less happy , perhaps , because he was very sure that Mr. Mildmay would be beaten . 
Mr. Low was the reformer now , and Phineas found himself obliged to fight a losing battle on behalf of an acknowledged abuse . 
He never went near Bunce ; but , unfortunately for him , Bunce caught him once in the street and showed him no mercy . 
`` Slide was a little ` eavy on you in the Banner the other day , -- eh , Mr. Finn ? 
-- too ` eavy , as I told him . '' 
Of course it 'll go , Mr. Finn . '' 
But he must go , Mr. Finn . '' 
`` If you do n't get another seat , Mr. Finn , I suppose we shall see you back at the Inn . 
It 's better than being member for Loughton , Mr. Finn ; -- you may be sure of that . '' 
Phineas understood , also , that he had lost his seat at Loughton . 
`` I shall never get over it , '' said Mr. Ratler to Mr. Finn , seated one terribly hot evening on a bench behind the Cabinet Ministers , -- `` never . 
Rumours reached the ears of Phineas as to the cause of this , but no certain cause was told him . 
There was , however , a mystery about it ; -- but the mystery was not half so wonderful as the triumph to Phineas , when Mr. Gresham offered him the place . 
`` But I shall have no seat , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas was invited , and when he arrived at Matching he found that half the Cabinet was there . 
Lady Glencora took an opportunity of imparting this latter information to Phineas very soon after his arrival ; and Phineas , as he watched her eye and her mouth while she spoke , was quite sure that Lady Glencora knew the story of the duel . 
`` I shall be delighted to see him again , '' said Phineas . 
There were also there Mr. and Mrs. Grey , who were great friends of the Pallisers , -- and on the very day on which Phineas reached Matching , at half an hour before the time for dressing , the Duke of Omnium arrived . 
Within three minutes of the Duke 's arrival Mrs. Bonteen , with an air of great importance , whispered a word to Phineas . 
Phineas asked . 
she said , almost reprimanding him by her tone of voice for his indifference . 
`` I do n't think I ever saw him , '' said Phineas . 
`` No , '' said Phineas ; `` I have heard nothing of the heir , but I know that there are three or four babies . '' 
`` I do n't know anything at all about it , '' said Phineas , who was not very fond of the lady who was giving him the information . 
Phineas , though he had intended to show to Mrs. Bonteen how little he thought about the Duke of Omnium , -- how small was his respect for a great peer who took no part in politics , -- could not protect himself from a certain feeling of anxiety as to the aspect and gait and words of the man of whom people thought so much , of whom he had heard so often , and of whom he had seen so little . 
Phineas would not go near the group , telling himself that he would not approach a man so grand as was the Duke of Omnium . 
He saw Madame Max Goesler among the party , and after a while he saw her retreat . 
As she retreated , Phineas knew that some words from Madame Max Goesler had not been received with the graciousness which she had expected . 
But yet Phineas knew that she had received a wound . 
`` I called twice on you in London , '' said Phineas , coming up close to her , `` but was not fortunate enough to find you ! '' 
I keep the most accurate record of all such things , Mr. Finn . 
I feel so much taller at being in the same house with him . 
But you are a spoilt child of fortune , and perhaps you have met him before . '' 
`` And you have never seen him but that once ? '' 
At this moment Lady Glencora came up to Phineas , and took him across to the Duke . 
The Duke had expressed a desire to be introduced to him . 
Phineas , half-pleased and half-disgusted , had no alternative , and followed Lady Glencora . 
The Duke shook hands with him , and made a little bow , and said something about the garrotters , which Phineas , in his confusion , did not quite understand . 
He tried to reply as he would have replied to anybody else , but the weight of the Duke 's majesty was too much for him , and he bungled . 
Phineas retreated altogether disgusted , -- hating the Duke , but hating himself worse ; but he would not retreat in the direction of Madame Max Goesler . 
At dinner Phineas sat between Mrs. Bonteen and the Duchess of St. Bungay , and did not find himself very happy . 
At the other end of the table the Duke , -- the great Duke , was seated at Lady Glencora 's right hand , and on his other side Fortune had placed Madame Max Goesler . 
The greatest interest which Phineas had during the dinner was in watching the operations , -- the triumphantly successful operations of that lady . 
The Duke had not condescended to accord the honour of his little bow of graciousness to some little flattering morsel of wit which the lady had uttered on his behoof . 
She had said a sharp word or two in her momentary anger to Phineas ; but when Fortune was so good to her in that matter of her place at dinner , she was not fool enough to throw away her chance . 
By the time that he had his roast mutton before him she was in full play , and as she eat her peach , the Duke was bending over her with his most gracious smile . 
`` Did n't you think the session was very long , Mr. Finn ? '' 
said the Duchess to Phineas . 
`` Very long indeed , Duchess , '' said Phineas , with his attention still fixed on Madame Goesler . 
`` I daresay he did , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas had the greatest possible respect for the Duke of St. Bungay , but he could not take much interest in the wailings of the Duchess on her husband 's behalf . 
`` Not so very bad , Duchess , I hope , '' said Phineas , observing that at this moment Madame Max Goesler 's eyes were brilliant with triumph . 
Then there came upon him a sudden ambition , -- that he would like to `` cut out '' the Duke of Omnium in the estimation of Madame Max Goesler . 
Violet Effingham came at the appointed time , and , to the surprise of Phineas , was brought to Matching by Lord Brentford . 
Phineas at first thought that it was intended that the Earl and his son should meet and make up their quarrel at Mr. Palliser 's house . 
But Lord Brentford stayed only one night , and Phineas on the next morning heard the whole history of his coming and going from Violet . 
`` I have almost been on my knees to him to stay , '' she said . 
`` And what did he say ? '' 
`` He put his arm round me and kissed me , and , -- and , I can not tell you all that he said . 
I shall do all I can to make him go ; and so must you , Mr. Finn . 
Phineas smiled , and said he would do his best , and looked up into her face , and was just able to talk to her as though things were going comfortably with him . 
But his heart was very cold As Violet had spoken to him about Lord Chiltern there had come upon him , for the first time , -- for the first time since he had known that Lord Chiltern had been refused , -- an idea , a doubt , whether even yet Violet might not become Lord Chiltern 's wife . 
`` I am so glad to hear you say so , Mr. Finn , '' said Violet . 
Phineas felt his position to be so strange as to be almost burdensome . 
He had told Violet , when she had refused him , very plainly , that he should come again to her , and ask once more for the great gift which he coveted . 
But he could not ask again now . 
In the first place , there was that in her manner which made him sure that were he to do so , he would ask in vain ; and then he felt that she was placing a special confidence in him , against which he would commit a sin were he to use her present intimacy with him for purposes of making love . 
Lord Chiltern arrived , and Phineas was a little nervous as to their meeting . 
He came back from shooting on the day in question , and was told by the servant that Lord Chiltern was in the house . 
Phineas went into the billiard-room in his knickerbockers , thinking probably that he might be there , and then into the drawing-room , and at last into the library , -- but Lord Chiltern was not to be found . 
Phineas asked . 
Phineas sent his card up by a servant , and in a few minutes was standing with his hand on the lock of Lord Chiltern 's door . 
Phineas had not given up Violet , and had no intention of giving her up . 
And he had received no intimation whatever from his rival that there was to be truce between them . 
Phineas had indeed written in friendship to Lord Chiltern , but he had received no answer ; -- and nothing of certainty was to be gathered from the report which Violet had just made . 
Then all doubt was over , and in a moment Phineas was shaking his former , -- and present friend , warmly by the hand . 
`` I had to get into harness , -- when the harness offered itself , '' said Phineas . 
`` Quite right , '' said Phineas . 
`` I told her myself , '' said Phineas . 
After that there was a short pause , and Phineas felt some hesitation in speaking of Miss Effingham to Lord Chiltern . 
The question was so hard to be answered , that Phineas did not at first make any attempt to answer it . 
But such as it was it showed Phineas that Lord Chiltern intended to have an answer . 
`` No ; -- I have not changed my mind , '' said Phineas , quickly . 
asked Phineas . 
The interview had in one respect been very pleasant to Phineas , and in another it had been very bitter . 
It was pleasant to him to know that he and Lord Chiltern were again friends . 
Phineas understood this , and felt that it was pleasant . 
But with this understanding , and accompanying this pleasure , there was a conviction in his heart that the distance between Lord Chiltern and Violet would daily grow to be less and still less , -- and that Lord Chiltern could afford to be generous . 
If Miss Effingham could teach herself to be fond of Lord Chiltern , what had he , Phineas Finn , to offer in opposition to the claims of such a suitor ? 
That evening Lord Chiltern took Miss Effingham out to dinner Phineas told himself that this was of course so arranged by Lady Glencora , with the express view of serving the Saulsby interest . 
It was , as Phineas thought , a peculiarity with Violet Effingham that she could treat her rejected lovers as dear familiar friends immediately after her rejection of them . 
`` Mr. Finn , '' said Madame Max Goesler , `` your eyes and ears are tell-tales of your passion . '' 
`` I hope not , '' said Phineas , `` as I certainly do not wish that any one should guess how strong is my regard for you . '' 
It was arranged that Phineas and Lord Chiltern were to leave Matching together . 
Phineas was to remain at his office all October , and in November the general election was to take place . 
What he had hitherto heard about a future seat was most vague , but he was to meet Ratler and Barrington Erle in London , and it had been understood that Barrington Erle , who was now at Saulsby , was to make some inquiry as to that group of boroughs of which Loughton at this moment formed one . 
But as Loughton was the smallest of four boroughs , and as one of the four had for many years had a representative of its own , Phineas feared that no success would be found there . 
In his present agony he began to think that there might be a strong plea made for a few private seats in the House of Commons , and that the propriety of throwing Loughton into the melting-pot was , after all , open to question . 
He and Lord Chiltern were to return to London together , and Lord Chiltern , according to his present scheme , was to proceed at once to Willingford to look after the cub-hunting . 
Nothing that either Violet or Phineas could say to him would induce him to promise to go to Saulsby . 
When Phineas pressed it , he was told by Lord Chiltern that he was a fool for his pains , -- by which Phineas understood perfectly well that when Lord Chiltern did go to Saulsby , he , Phineas , was to take that as strong evidence that everything was over for him as regarded Violet Effingham . 
Let him only be enabled to carry with him the tidings of his betrothal , and he would start for his father 's house without an hour 's delay . 
But this authority Violet would not give him . 
When he answered her after this fashion she could only tell him that he was ungenerous . 
`` At any rate I am not false , '' he replied on one occasion . 
There was a very tender parting between Phineas and Madame Max Goesler . 
She had learned from him pretty nearly all his history , and certainly knew more of the reality of his affairs than any of those in London who had been his most staunch friends . 
`` Of course you 'll get a seat , '' she said as he took his leave of her . 
`` Household in boroughs , '' said Phineas with some energy . 
As she spoke , she had hold of his hand , and there was nobody near them . 
Phineas had flattered himself that Madame Goesler had retreated there in order that this farewell might be spoken without interruption . 
`` And , Mr. Finn ; -- I wonder whether I may say one thing , '' she continued . 
There are things one may not say here , -- that are tabooed by a sort of consent , -- and that without any reason , '' She paused again , and Phineas was at a loss to think what was the subject on which she was about to speak . 
No ; she could not mean to give him any outward plain-spoken sign that she was attached to him . 
Phineas also said a word of farewell to Violet before he left Matching , but there was nothing peculiar in her little speech to him , or in his to her . 
Then Phineas had shaken his head and smiled . 
Where was he to find a requisite number of householders prepared to return him ? 
But as he went up to London he told himself that the air of the House of Commons was now the very breath of his nostrils . 
Life to him without it would be no life . 
To have come within the reach of the good things of political life , to have made his mark so as to have almost insured future success , to have been the petted young official aspirant of the day , -- and then to sink down into the miserable platitudes of private life , to undergo daily attendance in law-courts without a brief , to listen to men who had come to be much below him in estimation and social intercourse , to sit in a wretched chamber up three pairs of stairs at Lincoln 's Inn , whereas he was not at this moment provided with a gorgeous apartment looking out into the Park from the Colonial Office in Downing Street , to be attended by a mongrel between a clerk and an errand boy at 17s . 
Barrington Erle was there , and was not long in asking Phineas what were his views . 
`` Oh no , '' said Phineas , remembering the glories of Trinity . 
`` I have not got a wack of money , '' said Phineas , laughing . 
By which Phineas understood Barrington Erle to mean that he , Phineas , was in some way to give to Laurence Fitzgibbon some adequate compensation for the surrender of his position as a county member . 
`` I 'm afraid that 's out of the question , '' said Phineas . 
`` I was thinking of trying it , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas , as he listened to this , could not help thinking that Barrington Erle , though he had certainly expressed a great deal of solicitude , was not as true a friend as he used to be . 
Perhaps he , Phineas , had risen too fast , and Barrington Erle was beginning to think that he might as well be out of the way . 
And with a liberal ministry he , Phineas , would be sure of his place , and sure of an official income , -- if only he could find a seat . 
Mrs. Finn declared before her daughters that if there was a seat in all Ireland , Phineas ought to have it . 
And Mary Flood Jones stood by listening , and wondering what Phineas would do if he lost his seat . 
Would he come back and live in County Clare , and be like any other girl 's lover ? 
Nevertheless , she would have walked all the way to Lord Tulla 's house and back again , might that have availed to get the seat for Phineas . 
`` Phineas , my lord , '' began the father , `` is now Under Secretary of State . '' 
Phineas came over and stood for the borough against Mr. Lambert St. George , and the contest was sharp enough . 
No one canvassed for the young Under Secretary with more persistent zeal than did his father , who , when Phineas first spoke of going into Parliament , had produced so many good arguments against that perilous step . 
`` I shall be so glad to see her , '' Phineas had replied . 
`` I know that she is as good as gold , '' said Phineas . 
But , Phineas , perhaps you had better not single her out for any special attention . 
`` Of course , '' said Phineas . 
`` That is all , Phineas . 
`` Do n't laugh at me , Phineas , when I am thinking of nothing but of you and your interests , and when I am making all manner of excuses for you because I know what must be the distractions of the world in which you live . '' 
Barbara made more than one attempt to renew the conversation before the evening came , but Phineas thought that he had had enough of it . 
He did not like being told that excuses were made for him . 
After all , what had he done ? 
He had once kissed Mary Flood Jones behind the door . 
`` I am so glad to see you , Mary , '' he said , coming and taking a chair by her side . 
He had been specially warned not to single Mary out for his attention , and yet there was the chair left vacant as though it were expected that he would fall into it . 
We did not happen to meet last year , did we , -- Mr. Finn ? '' 
`` Do not call me Mr. Finn , Mary . '' 
`` It has been very pleasant to us , Phineas . 
Upon that he got up and went away , but again in the evening he found himself near her . 
Perhaps there is no position more perilous to a man 's honesty than that in which Phineas now found himself ; -- that , namely , of knowing himself to be quite loved by a girl whom he almost loves himself . 
Of course he loved Violet Effingham ; and they who talk best of love protest that no man or woman can be in love with two persons at once . 
Phineas was not in love with Mary Flood Jones ; but he would have liked to take her in his arms and kiss her ; -- he would have liked to gratify her by swearing that she was dearer to him than all the world ; he would have liked to have an episode , -- and did , at the moment , think that it might be possible to have one life in London and another life altogether different at Killaloe . 
`` Dear Mary , '' he said as he pressed her hand that night , `` things will get themselves settled at last , I suppose . '' 
He was behaving very ill to her , but he did not mean to behave ill . 
He rode over to Floodborough , and saw Mrs. Flood Jones . 
Mrs. Flood Jones , however , received him very coldly ; and Mary did not appear . 
`` Our friend Phineas Finn , '' said Lady Laura , speaking still with an excited voice , -- with a voice that was intended to display excitement . 
If you please there will be no more mention of Mr. Finn 's name between us , for the present . 
If you will take my advice you will cease to think of him extravagantly ; -- and I must desire you to hold no further direct communication with him . '' 
`` I have held no communication with him , '' said Lady Laura , advancing a step towards him . 
I am not prepared to say that there was any reason why Phineas himself should not have sent the news of his success to Lady Laura ; but he had not done so . 
If you say another word in any way suggesting the possibility of improper relations between me and Mr. Finn , either as to deeds or thoughts , as God is above me , I will write to both my father and my brother , and desire them to take me from your house . 
The name of Phineas Finn had not been mentioned . 
On some other matters he continued to assert himself , taking his wife to church twice every Sunday , using longer family prayers than she approved , reading an additional sermon himself every Sunday evening , calling upon her for weekly attention to elaborate household accounts , asking for her personal assistance in much local visiting , initiating her into his favourite methods of family life in the country , till sometimes she almost longed to talk again about Phineas Finn , so that there might be a rupture , and she might escape . 
It is Phineas Finn . '' 
`` Of course it is Phineas Finn . '' 
`` Did he ever ask you , -- to love him ? '' 
`` I feared he would do so , and therefore accepted Mr. Kennedy 's offer almost at the first word . '' 
Violet was quite sure that Phineas had asked Lady Laura Standish to be his wife . 
Violet Effingham had almost come to love Phineas Finn ; -- but she never told her friend that it was so . 
She might , of course , oblige her aunt by taking Lord Fawn , or oblige her aunt equally by taking Mr. Appledom ; but she was strongly of opinion that either Lord Chiltern or Phineas would be preferable to these . 
Thinking over it always she had come to feel that it must be either Lord Chiltern or Phineas ; but she had never whispered her thought to man or woman . 
On her journey to Loughlinter , where she then knew that she was to meet Lord Chiltern , she endeavoured to persuade herself that it should be Phineas . 
There had been a moment before in which Violet had felt that Phineas had sacrificed something of that truth of love for which she gave him credit to the glances of Madame Goesler 's eyes ; but she had rebuked herself for the idea , accusing herself not only of a little jealousy , but of foolish vanity . 
Was he , whom she had rejected , not to speak to another woman ? 
`` Poor Phineas , for instance . '' 
One was from Lady Laura Kennedy to her friend Phineas Finn , and the other from Violet to her aunt , Lady Baldock . 
Respecting the letter to Phineas , which shall be first given , Lady Laura thought it right to say a word to her husband . 
When Lady Laura 's letter to Phineas was completed she took care to put it into the letter-box in the presence of her husband . 
`` I have written to Mr. Finn , '' she said , `` to tell him of this marriage . '' 
`` Why was it necessary that he should be told ? '' 
`` I think it was due to him , -- from certain circumstances . '' 
Lady Laura 's letter to Phineas was as follows : -- `` Loughlinter , December 28th , 186 -- . 
When Phineas received Lady Laura Kennedy 's letter , he was sitting in his gorgeous apartment in the Colonial Office . 
And there was a little inner closet in which he could brush his hair and wash his hands ; and in the room adjoining there sat , -- or ought to have sat , for he was often absent , vexing the mind of Phineas , -- the Earl 's nephew , his private secretary . 
A horse will gallop for some scores of yards , after his back has been broken , before he knows of his great ruin ; -- and so it was with Phineas Finn . 
His back was broken , but , nevertheless , he galloped , for a yard or two . 
Then he began to be aware that his back was broken , and that the writing of any more notes about the ice in Halifax harbour was for the present out of the question . 
These were the words which he read the oftenest . 
The game was played out , and all his victories were as nothing to him . 
He sat for an hour in his gorgeous room thinking of it , and various were the answers which he gave during the time to various messages ; -- but he would see nobody . 
As for the colonies , he did not care if they revolted to-morrow . 
He would have parted with every colony belonging to Great Britain to have gotten the hand of Violet Effingham for himself . 
All the world , almost , had heard of the duel ; and all the world had smiled , and seemed to think that in the real fight Phineas Finn would be the victor , -- that the lucky pistol was in his hands . 
It had never occurred to any one to suppose , -- as far as he could see , -- that he was presuming at all , or pushing himself out of his own sphere , in asking Violet Effingham to be his wife . 
No ; -- he would trust his luck , would persevere , and would succeed . 
Such had been his resolution on that very morning , -- and now there had come this letter to dash him to the ground . 
There were moments in which he declared to himself that he would not believe the letter , -- not that there was any moment in which there was in his mind the slightest spark of real hope . 
But he would tell himself that he would still persevere . 
Charles Standish was a first cousin of Lady Laura 's and , having been in the office before Phineas had joined it , and being a great favourite with his cousin , had of course become the Under Secretary 's private secretary . 
Then Phineas went out and walked across the park ; but as he went he became quite aware that his back was broken . 
It was not the less broken because he sang to himself little songs to prove to himself that it was whole and sound . 
It was broken , and it seemed to him now that he never could become an Atlas again , to bear the weight of the world upon his shoulders . 
All that he had done had been part of a game which he had been playing throughout , and now he had been beaten in his game . 
He absolutely ignored his old passion for Lady Laura as though it had never been , and regarded himself as a model of constancy , -- as a man who had loved , not wisely perhaps , but much too well , -- and who must now therefore suffer a living death . 
said Phineas , who was profoundly indifferent at this moment to all the clubs in London . 
ejaculated Phineas . 
But Lord Cantrip took the tone of voice as simply suggestive of humility , and suspected nothing of that profound indifference to all ministers and ministerial honours which Phineas had intended to express . 
We shall be in the devil 's own mess , you know -- '' And so the Secretary of State went on about the Rocky Mountain Railroad , and Phineas strove hard to bear his burden with his broken back . 
He was obliged to say something about the guarantees , and the railway , and the frozen harbour , -- and something especially about the difficulties which would be found , not in the measures themselves , but in the natural pugnacity of the Opposition . 
Phineas during the whole time had been meditating what he could do to Lord Chiltern when they two should meet . 
Then Lord Cantrip slipped into the club , and Phineas went on alone . 
A spark of his old ambition with reference to Brooks 's was the first thing to make him forget his misery for a moment . 
Phineas Finn was beginning to flatter himself that he knew something about dinners , and had been heard to assert that the soups at the cottage in Park Lane were not to be beaten in London . 
But he cared for no soup today , as he slowly made his way up Madame Goesler 's staircase . 
She must either have ladies , or she must not have them . 
There was a great allurement in the latter alternative ; but she knew well that if she gave way to it , all prospect of general society would for her be closed , -- and for ever . 
This had been in the early days of her widowhood in Park Lane . 
She cared but little for women 's society ; but she knew well that the society of gentlemen without women would not be that which she desired . 
She knew also that she might as effectually crush herself and all her aspirations by bringing to her house indifferent women , -- women lacking something either in character , or in position , or in talent , -- as by having none at all . 
Thus there had been a great difficulty , and sometimes she had thought that the thing could not be done at all . 
And yet she would not have cared to succeed elsewhere than among the English . 
Her prudence equalled her wit , and even suspicious people had come to acknowledge that they could not put their fingers on anything wrong . 
`` Now we have only to wait for that horrible man , Mr. Fitzgibbon , '' said Madame Max Goesler , as she welcomed Phineas . 
said Phineas . 
Phineas found himself placed between his hostess and Mr. Bonteen , and Lord Fawn was on the other side of Madame Goesler . 
Now Phineas knew , or thought that he knew , that his could not as yet be the case ; and indeed such was not the case , though the father had already received the son 's letter . 
But Phineas did not choose to say anything at present about Lord Chiltern . 
`` Lord Chiltern is a friend of yours , Mr. Finn , I think . '' 
`` They are both friends of mine , '' said Phineas . 
`` I am not at liberty to say anything on the subject , '' said Fitzgibbon ; `` but I have no doubt Phineas will tell you . '' 
`` It all depends upon whether Miss Effingham will accept him , '' said Mrs. Bonteen , looking over at Phineas as she spoke . 
He on the present occasion might probably be able to carry himself better than Phineas , even presuming him to be equally eager in his love , -- for he knew nothing of the fatal truth . 
But he was unable to hear Mrs. Bonteen 's statement with indifference , and showed his concern in the matter by his reply . 
`` Any lady will be much to be pitied , '' he said , `` who does that . 
Could you not bring him here , Mr. Finn ? '' 
Phineas did not know what to say , or how to open his mouth without showing his deep concern . 
`` I shall be happy to ask him if you wish it , '' he replied , as though the question had been put to him in earnest ; `` but I do not see so much of Lord Chiltern as I used to do . '' 
He paused a moment before he spoke , and then made his answer in a deep solemn voice , -- with a seriousness which he was unable to repress . 
`` She has accepted him , '' he said . 
Had anybody told him beforehand that he would openly make this declaration at Madame Goesler 's table , he would have said that of all things it was the most impossible . 
He would have declared that nothing would have induced him to speak of Violet Effingham in his existing frame of mind , and that he would have had his tongue cut out before he spoke of her as the promised bride of his rival . 
And now he had declared the whole truth of his own wretchedness and discomfiture . 
He was well aware that all of them there knew why he had fought the duel at Blankenberg ; -- all , that is , except perhaps Lord Fawn . 
`` I do believe it , if Mr. Finn says so , '' said Mrs. Bonteen , who rather liked the confusion she had caused . 
`` His sister , Lady Laura , told me so , '' said Phineas . 
For some minutes after that Phineas did not speak another word , and the conversation generally was not so brisk and bright as it was expected to be at Madame Goesler 's . 
At last she succeeded ; and after a while , too , Phineas himself was able to talk . 
He drank two or three glasses of wine , and dashed away into politics , taking the earliest opportunity in his power of contradicting Lord Fawn very plainly on one or two matters . 
All this was rather severe upon Laurence Fitzgibbon ; but he was a man of the world , and bore it better than Phineas had borne his defeat . 
Lord Fawn , after he had been contradicted by Phineas , hardly opened his mouth . 
Phineas himself talked rather too much and rather too loudly ; and Mrs. Bonteen , who was well enough inclined to flatter Lord Fawn , contradicted him . 
In the drawing-room up-stairs Madame Goesler managed to be alone for three minutes with Phineas Finn . 
Phineas almost felt that if they two had been quite alone he could have told her everything , and have wept at her feet . 
`` Yes , '' he said , `` it is so . '' 
`` Do not say that , Mr. Finn . '' 
`` But you need not admit it , Mr. Finn . 
Then Phineas promised that he would come soon ; and felt as he made the promise that he would have an opportunity of talking over his love with his new friend at any rate without fresh shame as to his failure . 
Laurence Fitzgibbon went away with Phineas , and Mr. Bonteen , having sent his wife away by herself , walked off towards the clubs with Lord Fawn . 
Lord Fawn had evidently been annoyed by Phineas , and Mr. Bonteen did not at all love the young Under Secretary . 
`` And so absurdly conceited , '' said Mr. Bonteen , thinking of Phineas . 
`` Phineas Finn . '' 
`` Oh , Mr. Finn . 
I believe Finn to be a very good sort of a fellow , and he is undoubtedly clever . 
On the day following Madame Goesler 's dinner party , Phineas , though he was early at his office , was not able to do much work , still feeling that as regarded the realities of the world , his back was broken . 
He might no doubt go on learning , and , after a time , might be able to exert himself in a perhaps useful , but altogether uninteresting kind of way , doing his work simply because it was there to be done , -- as the carter or the tailor does his ; -- and from the same cause , knowing that a man must have bread to live . 
He received a note in the morning from Lord Cantrip saying that they two were to see the Prime Minister that evening , in order that the whole question of the railway to the Rocky Mountains might be understood , and Phineas was driven to his work . 
Before the time of the meeting came he had once more lost his own identity in great ideas of colonial welfare , and had planned and peopled a mighty region on the Red River , which should have no sympathy with Amercian democracy . 
When he waited upon Mr. Gresham in the afternoon he said nothing about the mighty region ; indeed , he left it to Lord Cantrip to explain most of the proposed arrangements , -- speaking only a word or two here and there as occasion required . 
On the fourth day after his sorrow had befallen him , Phineas went again to the cottage in Park Lane . 
And in order that he might not be balked in his search for sympathy he wrote a line to Madame Goesler to ask if she would be at home . 
-- M. M. G. '' That was the answer from Marie Max Goesler , and Phineas was of course at the cottage a few minutes after five . 
It is not , I think , surprising that a man when he wants sympathy in such a calamity as that which had now befallen Phineas Finn , should seek it from a woman . 
All these things were added to Phineas when he went to Madame Goesler in his grief . 
Phineas thought a moment of that matter before he replied . 
All the Standish family had been very good to him , and Violet Effingham had been very good . 
It was not the fault of any of them that he was now wretched and back-broken . 
He had meditated much on this , and had resolved that he would not even think evil of them . 
`` I do not in my heart believe that that has had anything to do with it , '' he said . 
And , Mr. Finn , there are other ladies in the world prettier than Miss Violet Effingham . 
I know no one so young who has got the ball at his feet so well . 
And there are women , and pretty women too , Mr. Finn , who have spirit enough to understand this , and to think that the man , after all , is more important than the lord . '' 
Then she sang the old well-worn verse of the Scotch song with wonderful spirit , and with a clearness of voice and knowledge of music for which he had hitherto never given her credit . 
`` But young Lochinvar got his bride , '' said Phineas . 
`` Take the spirit of the lines , Mr. Finn , which is true ; and not the tale as it is told , which is probably false . 
She gave him her hand , which was very soft , and left it for a moment in his , and he was consoled . 
The Duke had allowed himself to say something about a photograph , which had justified her in writing to him , -- or which she had taken for such justification . 
`` He would not , '' he said , `` lose the opportunity of waiting upon her in person which the presentation of the little gift might afford him . '' 
The Duke of Omnium should come , -- if he would . 
And she was quite resolved as to this , -- that if the Duke did come she would not be afraid of him . 
Should the Duke give her any opportunity she would take a very short time in letting him know what was the extent of her ambition . 
In her misery one day Lady Laura told the whole story of her own unhappiness to her brother , saying nothing of Phineas Finn , -- thinking nothing of him as she told her story , but speaking more strongly perhaps than she should have done , of the terrible dreariness of her life at Loughlinter , and of her inability to induce her husband to alter it for her sake . 
But had she married Phineas , -- had she become Lady Laura Finn , -- there would have been a great descent . 
Phineas Finn , when the session began , was still hard at work upon his Canada bill , and in his work found some relief for his broken back . 
He went into the matter with all his energy , and before the debate came on , knew much more about the seven thousand inhabitants of some hundreds of thousands of square miles at the back of Canada , than he did of the people of London or of County Clare . 
And he found some consolation also in the good-nature of Madame Goesler , whose drawing-room was always open to him . 
He could talk freely now to Madame Goesler about Violet , and had even ventured to tell her that once , in old days , he had thought of loving Lady Laura Standish . 
He spoke of those days as being very old ; and then he perhaps said some word to her about dear little Mary Flood Jones . 
I think that there was not much in his career of which he did not say something to Madame Goesler , and that he received from her a good deal of excellent advice and encouragement in the direction of his political ambition . 
Then Phineas of course told her that such sympathy from her was all and all to him . 
With Phineas he now and then exchanged a few words in the lobby of the House , and when they chanced to meet each other , they met as friends . 
No one must know that there was any reason why Phineas should not come to his house ; especially as all the world knew that Phineas had protected him from the garrotters . 
`` Lady Laura is in town now , '' he said ; `` you must go and see her before long . '' 
Phineas of course promised that he would go . 
In these days Phineas was beginning to be aware that he had enemies , -- though he could not understand why anybody should be his enemy now that Violet Effingham had decided against him . 
But the Ratlers and the Bonteens were Finn 's bitter foes , and did not scruple to let him know that such was the case . 
Barrington Erle had scruples on the subject , and in a certain mildy apologetic way still spoke well of the young man , whom he had himself first introduced into political life only four years since ; -- but there was no earnestness or cordiality in Barrington Erle 's manner , and Phineas knew that his first staunch friend could no longer be regarded as a pillar of support . 
But there was a set of men , quite as influential , -- so Phineas thought , -- as the busy politicians of the club , who were very friendly to him . 
Lords Cantrip , Thrift , and Fawn were of this class , -- and they were all very courteous to Phineas . 
Envious men began to say of him that he cared little now for any one of the party who had not a handle to his name , and that he preferred to live with lords and lordlings . 
This was hard upon him , as the great political ambition of his life was to call Mr. Monk his friend ; and he would sooner have acted with Mr. Monk than with any other man in the Cabinet . 
But Phineas , who had achieved his declared object in getting into place , felt that he was almost constrained to adopt the views of others , let them be what they might . 
Men spoke to him , as though his parliamentary career were wholly at the disposal of the Government , -- as though he were like a proxy in Mr. Gresham 's pocket , -- with this difference , that when directed to get up and speak on a subject he was bound to do so . 
This annoyed him , and he complained to Mr. Monk ; but Mr. Monk only shrugged his shoulders and told him that he must make his choice . 
Mr. Low worked ten hours a day , and could rarely call a day his own ; but , after all , with all this work , Mr. Low was less of a slave , and more independent , than was he , Phineas Finn , Under-Secretary of State , the friend of Cabinet Ministers , and Member of Parliament since his twenty-fifth year ! 
And why -- '' `` This is complaining , Mr. Finn . '' 
There was a pause for a moment , and then Lady Laura answered him with a touch of scorn in her voice , -- and with some scorn , too , in her eye ; -- `` That is all very well , Mr. Finn ; but the season will not be over before there is some one else . '' 
Phineas did not believe what he had heard , but though he did not believe it , still the tidings set his heart beating . 
He would have believed it less perhaps had he known that Laurence had just received the news from Mrs. Bonteen . 
`` Come and see the country and judge for yourself , '' said Phineas . 
`` It has often seemed to me that men in Parliament know less about Ireland than they do of the interior of Africa , '' said Phineas . 
Mr. Monk and Phineas were dining together at Mr. Monk 's house , and the elder politician of the two in this little speech had recurred to certain matters which had already been discussed between them . 
He had been discussing political honesty with Phineas , and hence had come the sermon of which I have ventured to reproduce the concluding denunciations . 
Phineas was fond of such discussions and fond of holding them with Mr. Monk , -- in this matter fluttering like a moth round a candle . 
said Phineas . 
But it was different with Phineas Finn , as Mr. Monk himself understood ; -- and , understanding this , he felt himself bound to caution his young friend . 
`` But , '' said Phineas , `` if a man takes up his own subject , independent of the Government , no man can drive him from it . '' 
`` We will go and see , at any rate , '' said Phineas . 
And thus , in the month of May , it was settled between them that , as soon as the session should be over , and the incidental work of his office should allow Phineas to pack up and be off , they two should start together for Ireland . 
Phineas felt rather proud as he wrote to his father and asked permission to bring home with him a Cabinet Minister as a visitor . 
At this time the reputation of Phineas at Killaloe , as well in the hands of the Killaloeians generally as in those of the inhabitants of the paternal house , stood very high indeed . 
Phineas , during the spring , had , of course , met Mr. Kennedy frequently in and about the House , and had become aware that Lady Laura 's husband , from time to time , made little overtures of civility to him , -- taking him now and again by the button-hole , walking home with him as far as their joint paths allowed , and asking him once or twice to come and dine in Grosvenor Place . 
These little advances towards a repetition of the old friendship Phineas would have avoided altogether , had it been possible . 
When he did refuse , Mr. Kennedy would assume a look of displeasure and leave him , and Phineas would hope that the work was done . 
He had no alternative . 
He must refuse , even though double the notice had been given . 
He could only think that Mr. Kennedy was a very obtuse man and one who would not take a hint , and hope that he might succeed at last . 
Yours always , Phineas Finn . '' 
Phineas was taken so much by surprise that all his cunning failed him . 
`` Well , yes , '' said he ; `` I was very sorry ; -- very sorry indeed . '' 
`` Nothing on earth , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas felt that he was in a terrible difficulty , and he felt also that he was being rather ill-used in being thus cross-examined as to his reasons for not going to a gentleman 's dinner . 
He thought that a man ought to be allowed to choose when he would go and when he would not go , and that questions such as these were very uncommon . 
Phineas , as he sat at his window , looking out into the park , and thinking of what had passed , could not but reflect that , disagreeable as Mr. Kennedy had been to him , he would probably make himself much more disagreeable to his wife . 
The reader may remember that a rumour had been conveyed to Phineas , -- a rumour indeed which reached him from a source which he regarded as very untrustworthy , -- that Violet Effingham had quarrelled with her lover . 
Phineas did not like to be told of their billing and cooing , -- did not like to be told even of their quarrelling . 
Though they were to quarrel , it would do him no good . 
He would rather that nobody should mention their names to him ; -- so that his back , which had been so utterly broken , might in process of time get itself cured . 
From what he knew of Violet he thought it very improbable that , even were she to quarrel with one lover , she would at once throw herself into the arms of another . 
Phineas had met Lady Baldock at some house which he frequented , and had been quite surprised to find himself graciously received by the old woman . 
`` But he is a friend of mine , '' said Phineas , smiling . 
Mr. Finn . 
Phineas did not quite understand from this that Lady Baldock was signifying to him that , badly as she had thought of him as a suitor for her niece , she would have preferred him , -- especially now when people were beginning to speak well of him , -- to that terrible young man , who , from his youth upwards , had been to her a cause of fear and trembling . 
Phineas did not quite understand all this ; but when Lady Baldock asked him to come to Berkeley Square , he perceived that help was being proffered to him where he certainly had not looked for help . 
He was frequently with Lord Brentford , who talked to him constantly on matters connected with his parliamentary life . 
And Phineas could perceive that from day to day the Earl was less and less satisfied . 
He would complain bitterly of his son , -- complain of his silence , complain of his not coming to London , complain of his conduct to Violet , complain of his idle indifference to anything like proper occupation ; but he had never as yet said a word to show that there had been any quarrel between Violet and her lover , and Phineas had felt that he could not ask the question . 
`` Mr. Finn , '' said the Earl to him one morning , as soon as he entered the room , `` I have just heard a story which has almost seemed to me to be incredible . '' 
The nobleman 's manner was very stern , and the fact that he called his young friend `` Mr. Finn , '' showed at once that something was wrong . 
said Phineas . 
Now it must have been the case that , in the set among which they all lived , -- Lord Brentford and his son and daughter and Phineas Finn , -- the old lord was the only man who had not heard of the duel before this . 
`` It is true , '' said Phineas . 
The lord 's voice as he said this was very stern . 
`` I do not know what to think of it , Mr. Finn . 
Phineas was aware that the Earl must have been very much moved indeed when he thus permitted himself to speak of `` his '' borough . 
Thus Phineas learned that Lord Chiltern was at this moment in the house , -- or at least in London . 
Had Phineas still been sitting for Loughton , so that the Earl could have said to him , `` You are now bound to retreat from this borough because you have offended me , your patron , '' I think that he would have forgiven the offender and allowed him to remain in his seat . 
There was a good fortune about Phineas which added greatly to the lord 's wrath . 
And then , to tell the truth , he had not that rich consolation for which Phineas gave him credit . 
But of this Phineas knew nothing as yet . 
He had been in the habit of talking so freely to Phineas about his son that he could hardly resist the temptation of doing so still ; and yet it was impossible that he could swallow his anger and continue in the same strain . 
`` My lord , '' said Phineas , after a while , `` I can assure you that I grieve that you should be grieved . 
He was about to leave the room when the Earl stopped him . 
Phineas stood silent , considering how he might answer this proposal , resolving that nothing should bring him to such a pledge as that suggested while there was yet a ledge for hope to stand on . 
`` Say that , Mr. Finn , and I will forgive everything . '' 
`` There need be no cause for alarm , my lord , '' said Phineas . 
Then Phineas took up his hat and departed . 
As he walked away his mind filled itself gradually with various ideas , all springing from the words which Lord Brentford had spoken . 
`` He can not think that I have been false to him , '' Phineas said to himself . 
But it was very sad to him that he should have to quarrel with all the family of the Standishes , as he could not but feel that it was they who had put him on his feet . 
It seemed as though he were never to see Lady Laura again except when they chanced to meet in company , -- on which occasions he simply bowed to her . 
`` Dear Phineas , `` I ca n't dine with you , because I am down here , looking after the cripples , and writing a sporting novel . 
But yet there was a flavour of Violet in the letter which would not have been there , so Phineas thought , if the writer had been despondent . 
Lord Chiltern must have told his father that Phineas was his rival . 
Shortly afterwards Phineas did call in Berkeley Square , and was shown up at once into Lady Baldock 's drawing-room . 
`` I am so glad to see you , Mr. Finn , '' she said . 
`` A man should try to be something , '' said Phineas . 
Upon which Phineas smiled and shook his head . 
`` He is a man of whom it is very hard to make a friend , '' said Phineas , feeling that he was dishonest to Mr. Kennedy in saying so , but thinking that such dishonesty was justified by what he owed to Lady Laura . 
`` Of course you were wrong , Mr. Finn . '' 
To him I chose to defend myself , but I certainly shall not do so to you . 
At that moment , luckily , Lady Baldock came into the room , and Phineas was saved from the necessity of making a declaration at a moment which would have been most inopportune . 
Lady Baldock was exceedingly gracious to him , bidding Violet use her influence to persuade him to come to the gathering . 
Have you ever heard Pjinskt , Mr. Finn ? '' 
Phineas never had heard Pjinskt . 
After church-time , about two o'clock , Phineas Finn came to her . 
Just at this period Phineas would come to her often ; -- sometimes full of a new decision to forget Violet Effingham altogether , at others minded to continue his siege let the hope of success be ever so small . 
He had now heard that Violet and Lord Chiltern had in truth quarrelled , and was of course anxious to be advised to continue the siege . 
`` Go home , Mr. Finn , '' she said , `` and write a sonnet to her eyebrow . 
Mr. Low the barrister , who had given so many lectures to our friend Phineas Finn , lectures that ought to have been useful , was now himself in the House of Commons , having reached it in the legitimate course of his profession . 
At a certain point of his career , supposing his career to have been sufficiently prosperous , it becomes natural to a barrister to stand for some constituency , and natural for him also to form his politics at that period of his life with a view to his further advancement , looking , as he does so , carefully at the age and standing of the various candidates for high legal office . 
Mr. Low had been angry with Phineas because he , being a barrister , had climbed into it after another fashion , having taken up politics , not in the proper way as an assistance to his great profession , but as a profession in itself . 
And Mrs. Low had been more sure than Mr. Low , having not unnaturally been jealous that a young whipper-snapper of a pupil , -- as she had once called Phineas , -- should become a Parliament man before her husband , who had worked his way up gallantly , in the usual course . 
She would not give way a jot even now , -- not even when she heard that Phineas was going to marry this and that heiress . 
For at this period of his life such rumours were afloat about him , originating probably in his hopes as to Violet Effingham and his intimacy with Madame Goesler . 
At this time Phineas had become somewhat of a fine gentleman , which made Mrs. Low the more angry with him . 
He showed himself willing enough to go to Mrs. Low 's house , but when there he seemed to her to give himself airs . 
I think that she was unjust to him , and that it was natural that he should not bear himself beneath her remarks exactly as he had done when he was nobody . 
He had certainly been very successful . 
He was always listened to in the House , and rarely spoke except on subjects which belonged to him , or had been allotted to him as part of his business . 
He lived quite at his ease with people of the highest rank , -- and those of his own mode of life who disliked him did so simply because they regarded with envy his too rapid rise . 
He rode upon a pretty horse in the park , and was careful in his dress , and had about him an air of comfortable wealth which Mrs. Low thought he had not earned . 
By which she perhaps meant to imply a belief that a time was coming in which her husband would have a salary much better than that now enjoyed by Phineas , and much more likely to be permanent . 
Mr. Bunce and Mrs. Low , though they differed much in politics , sympathised in reference to Phineas . 
Mr. Low , who was now frequently in the habit of seeing Phineas at the House , had somewhat changed his opinions , and was not so eager in condemning Phineas as was his wife . 
He had begun to think that perhaps Phineas had shown some knowledge of his own aptitudes in the career which he had sought , and was aware , at any rate , that his late pupil was somebody in the House of Commons . 
Now Phineas was certainly above Mr. Low in parliamentary reputation . 
He sat on a front bench . 
He knew the leaders of parties . 
He was at home amidst the forms of the House . 
He enjoyed something of the prestige of Government power . 
And he walked about familiarly with the sons of dukes and the brothers of earls in a manner which had its effect even on Mr. Low . 
It was almost a privilege to Mr. Low to be intimate with Phineas Finn . 
He was surprised , therefore , one day when Phineas discussed the matter with him fully . 
Phineas had asked him what would be his chance of success if even now he were to give up politics and take to the Bar as the means of earning his livelihood . 
`` The attorneys are very arbitrary , I know , '' said Phineas . 
After that Mr. Low began to think that his wife 's judgment in this matter had been better than his own . 
Phineas told himself that that game was also open to him . 
He , too , might marry money . 
Violet Effingham had money ; -- quite enough to make him independent were he married to her . 
`` He has quarrelled with me , you know , '' said Phineas . 
`` One does n't like to quarrel with those who have been kind to one , '' said Phineas . 
said Phineas , bitterly . 
This was all very well as coming from Lord Chiltern ; but there was no word about Violet , and Phineas did not know how to get a word from any one . 
Lady Laura could have told him everything , but he could not go to Lady Laura . 
He did go to Lady Baldock 's house as often as he thought he could with propriety , and occassionally he saw Violet . 
But he could do no more than see her , and the days and weeks were passing by , and the time was coming in which he would have to go away , and be with her no more . 
Mrs. Bonteen did not get a card ; and when she heard that Phineas Finn had received one , her wrath against Phineas was very great . 
He was `` an Irish adventurer , '' and she regretted deeply that Mr. Bonteen had ever interested himself in bringing such an upstart forward in the world of politics . 
But as Mr. Bonteen never had done anything towards bringing Phineas forward , there was not much cause for regret on this head . 
Phineas , however , got his card , and , of course , accepted the invitation . 
Phineas , knowing that he should meet Violet Effingham , took a great deal with him ready made . 
Phineas did not come till late , -- till seven , when the banquet was over . 
I think he was right in this , as the banqueting in tents loses in comfort almost more than it gains in romance . 
Phineas strolled into the grounds when the tent was nearly empty , and when Lady Glencora , almost sinking beneath her exertions , was taking rest in an inner room . 
Phineas had not been long on the lawn before he saw Lady Laura Kennedy . 
Lady Laura shook hands with Phineas , and then as he was passing on , followed him for a step and whispered a word to him . 
`` Mr. Finn , '' she said , `` if you are not going yet , come back to me presently , I have something to say to you . 
Phineas said that he would , and then went on , not knowing exactly where he was going . 
He had one desire , -- to find Violet Effingham , but when he should find her he could not carry her off , and sit with her beneath a haycock . 
While looking for Violet Effingham , Phineas encountered Madame Goesler , among a crowd of people who were watching the adventurous embarkation of certain daring spirits in a pleasure-boat . 
said Phineas to the lady . 
Thus Phineas excused himself , being still intent on prosecuting his search for Violet . 
`` But the blue young gentleman has been sprinkled also , '' said Phineas , `` and they will be happy in a joint baptism . '' 
`` That must be very bad , '' said Phineas . 
`` I do not know that the Duke would do much , '' said Phineas laughing . 
`` He may be your particular friend , for what I know , '' said Phineas . 
`` Mr. Finn ! '' 
`` Then why do you come to his house ? '' 
`` Is that true , Mr. Finn ? '' 
Phineas as he said this was thinking of Lady Baldock , to whom of late he had been exceedingly civil , -- but he certainly did not like Lady Baldock . 
Do you know him well ? '' 
`` I think he is a gracious gentleman , '' said Madame Goesler , `` and though I can not boast of knowing him well , I do not like to hear him called buckram . 
I do not think he is buckram . 
It is not very easy for a man in his position to live so as to please all people . 
He has to maintain the prestige of the highest aristocracy in Europe . '' 
`` Look at his nephew , who will be the next Duke , and who works as hard as any man in the country . 
`` You believe only in motion , Mr. Finn ; -- and not at all in quiescence . 
`` Stars which they have never earned , '' said Phineas . 
This she said with an earnestness which he could not pretend not to notice or not to understand . 
`` Certainly I may , '' said Phineas . 
Then he left her . 
Up to this moment he had not seen Violet , and yet he knew that she was to be there . 
She had herself told him that she was to accompany Lady Laura , whom he had already met . 
Phineas therefore was sure that she must be in the place . 
He had kept his eyes ever on the alert , and yet he had not found her . 
And now he must keep his appointment with Lady Laura Kennedy . 
So he went down to the path by the river , and there he found her seated close by the water 's edge . 
Her cousin Barrington Erle was still with her , but as soon as Phineas joined the , Erle went away . 
`` Are you and he still friends , Mr. Finn ? '' 
`` I think that I have been wrong , '' said Phineas . 
She asked the question abruptly , showing that she was anxious to get to the matter respecting which she had summoned him to her side , and that all that she had said hitherto had been uttered as it were in preparation of that subject . 
Phineas stood for a moment in silence , hesitating . 
But answer my question , Mr. Finn ; -- unless you find that you can not answer it . 
But why did she come to him with this story , -- to him whom she had been accused of entertaining as a lover ; -- to him who of all her friends was the last whom she should have chosen as the recipient for such a tale ? 
Phineas as he thought how he might best answer her , with what words he might try to comfort her , could not but ask himself this question . 
Phineas had no alternative but to read the letter , which was as follows : -- `` After what you have said to me it is impossible that I should return to your house . 
How intimate I was with Mr. Finn , and what were the limits of my intimacy with him you knew before I married you . 
After our marriage I encouraged his friendship till I found that there was something in it that displeased you , -- and , after learning that , I discouraged it . 
You have said that he is my lover , but you have probably not defined for yourself that word very clearly . 
You have felt yourself slighted because his name has been mentioned with praise ; -- and your jealousy has been wounded because you have thought that I have regarded him as in some way superior to yourself . 
You have never really thought that he was my lover , -- that he spoke words to me which others might not hear , that he claimed from me aught that a wife may not give , that he received aught which a friend should not receive . 
`` It is at any rate true , '' she said , when Phineas had read the letter . 
Doubtless it is true , '' said Phineas , `` except that I do not suppose he was ever really angry with me , or jealous , or anything of the sort , -- because I got on well . 
Then he was left standing by himself , looking down upon the river as it glided by . 
How would it have been with both of them if Lady Laura had accepted him three years ago , when she consented to join her lot with that of Mr. Kennedy , and had rejected him ? 
Mr. Kennedy had certainly mistaken the signs of things when he had accused his wife by saying that Phineas was her lover . 
Phineas had soon got over that early feeling ; and as far as he himself was concerned had never regretted Lady Laura 's marriage . 
He remained down by the water for a few minutes , giving Lady Laura time to escape , and then he wandered across the grounds towards the house . 
Phineas felt himself to be very much in the lurch , even after he had discovered Violet Effingham standing up to dance with Lord Fawn . 
`` The very last , '' said Phineas , feeling that the subject was one upon which it was not easy for him to speak . 
Then Phineas began to understand that Violet had not heard the whole story ; but the difficulty of speaking was still very great . 
`` It has been the result of ungovernable temper , '' he said . 
In many respects it would be better that she should , '' said Phineas . 
They were now at some distance from the house , and Phineas could not but feel that chance had been very good to him in giving him his opportunity . 
She was leaning on his arm , and they were alone , and she was speaking to him with all the familiarity of old friendship . 
`` I wonder whether I may change the subject , '' said he , `` and ask you a word about yourself ? '' 
`` Lord Chiltern is your friend , Mr. Finn ? '' 
`` He is so , and I do not think that I have ever been untrue to my friendship for him . '' 
`` He says that no man has ever had a truer friend . 
He took but little notice of Phineas as he resumed his charge of Miss Effingham ; but the two ladies wished him good night . 
`` Good night , Lady Laura , '' said Phineas , standing with his hat in his hand , -- `` good night , Miss Effingham . '' 
Then he was alone , -- quite alone . 
Would it not be well for him to go down to the bottom of the garden , and fling himself into the quiet river , so that there might be an end of him ? 
Or would it not be better still that he should create for himself some quiet river of life , away from London , away from politics , away from lords , and titled ladies , and fashionable squares , and the parties given by dukes , and the disappointments incident to a small man in attempting to make for himself a career among big men ? 
Phineas did not throw himself into the river from the Duke 's garden ; and was ready , in spite of Violet Effingham , to start for Ireland with Mr. Monk at the end of the first week in August . 
Phineas was well aware that many women do transfer their hearts ; but he had gone to this woman too soon after the wrench which her love had received ; he had been too sudden with his proposal for a transfer ; and the punishment for such ill judgment must be that success would now be impossible to him . 
And yet how could he have waited , feeling that Miss Effingham , if she were at all like other girls whom he had known , might have promised herself to some other lover before she would return within his reach in the succeeding spring ? 
`` Then you mean to say , '' said Phineas , `` that we are altogether wrong from beginning to end , in our way of arranging these things ? '' 
`` I do not think that that influenced you , '' said Phineas . 
There was a bitterness in all this to Phineas himself of which he could not but make plaint to his companion . 
`` The truth is , '' he said , `` that a man in office must be a slave , and that slavery is distasteful . '' 
It was a great day in Killaloe , that on which Mr. Monk arrived with Phineas at the doctor 's house . 
There were many in Killaloe , especially among the elder ladies , who had shaken their heads and expressed the saddest doubts when young Phineas Finn had first become a Parliament man . 
And though by degrees they had been half brought round , having been driven to acknowledge that he had been wonderfully successful as a Parliament man , still they had continued to shake their heads among themselves , and to fear something in the future , -- until he appeared at his old home leading a Cabinet Minister by the hand . 
When Phineas had been last at Killaloe , Mrs. Flood Jones , as the reader may remember , had remained with her daughter at Floodborough , -- feeling it to be her duty to keep her daughter away from the danger of an unrequited attachment . 
Nevertheless , they did talk about Phineas during the whole of that day , and very often talked about him afterwards , as long as Mary remained at Killaloe . 
He found it very difficult to talk to his hostess upon any subject , until by chance he mentioned his young friend Phineas . 
Phineas on this occasion had taken out to dinner the mother of his devoted Mary , Mrs. Flood Jones . 
said he , laughing . 
You know , Phineas , when we first heard that you were to sit in Parliament , we were afraid that you might break a rib or two , -- since you choose to talk about the breaking of bones . '' 
`` Rumours always lie , '' said Phineas . 
Thus Mrs. Flood Jones signified to Phineas Finn that she had forgiven him the thoughtlessness of his early youth , -- even though there had been something of treachery in that thoughtlessness to her own daughter ; and showed him , also , that whatever Mary 's feelings might have been once , they were not now of a nature to trouble her . 
`` I should think very likely not , '' said Phineas , who perhaps looked farther into the mind of the lady than the lady intended . 
Foreseeing that Phineas might commit himself if he attended these meetings , Mr. Monk had counselled him to remain at Killaloe . 
But Phineas had refused to subject himself to such cautious abstinence . 
`` I shall not , probably , be asked to speak , '' said Phineas , `` and if I am asked , I need not say more than a few words . 
Mr. Monk said very much to him on the subject , -- was constantly saying very much to him about it ; but in spite of all that Mr. Monk said , Phineas did make the journey to Limerick and Dublin . 
As for Phineas , he had felt that his old friend was very cold to him . 
He was in that humour with reference to Violet Effingham which seemed especially to require consolation . 
He knew now that all hope was over there . 
Violet Effingham could never be his wife . 
Had Mary known all this , and had it suited her to play such a part , I think she might have had Phineas at her feet before he had been a week at home . 
But she had kept aloof from him and had heard nothing of his sorrows . 
As a natural consequence of this , Phineas was more in love with her than ever . 
On the evening before he started with Mr. Monk for Limerick , he managed to be alone with her for a few minutes . 
`` Mary , '' Phineas said to her suddenly , `` it seems to me that you have avoided me purposely ever since I have been at home . '' 
`` That was before you were a great man , Phineas . 
`` I believe there is no one in the whole world , '' he said , after a pause , `` whose friendship is more to me than yours is . 
Then he put out his hand for hers , and she could not help giving it to him . 
`` Of course there will be people , '' he said , `` who talk nonsense , and one can not help it ; but I will not put up with it from you . '' 
`` I did not mean to talk nonsense , Phineas ! '' 
Then there came some one across them , and the conversation was ended ; but the sound of his voice remained on her ears , and she could not help to remember that he had declared that her friendship was dearer to him than the friendship of any one else . 
Phineas went with Mr. Monk first to Limerick and then to Dublin , and found himself at both places to be regarded as a hero only second to the great hero . 
Of course Phineas spoke also . 
It was impossible that he should be silent when his friend and leader was pouring out his eloquence . 
Of course he spoke , and of course he pledged himself . 
Something like the old pleasures of the debating society returned to him , as standing upon a platform before a listening multitude , he gave full vent to his words . 
In the House of Commons , of late he had been so cabined , cribbed , and confined by office as to have enjoyed nothing of this . 
Indeed , from the commencement of his career , he had fallen so thoroughly into the decorum of Government ways , as to have missed altogether the delights of that wild irresponsible oratory of which Mr. Monk had spoken to him so often . 
`` Of course I shall , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas was rather melancholy as he returned alone to Killaloe . 
It was all very well to bid him stick to the ship , and he knew as well as any one could tell him how material the ship was to him ; but there are circumstances in which a man can not stick to his ship , -- can not stick , at least , to this special Government ship . 
In that case Phineas would not only be able to keep his office , but would have such an opportunity of making a speech in Parliament as circumstances had never yet given to him . 
When he was again at home he said nothing to his father or to the Killaloeians as to the danger of his position . 
Of what use would it be to make his mother and sister miserable , or to incur the useless counsels of the doctor ? 
They seemed to think his speech at Dublin very fine , and were never tired of talking of what Mr. Monk and Phineas were going to do ; but the idea had not come home to them that if Mr. Monk or Phineas chose to do anything on their own account , they must give up the places which they held under the Crown . 
It was September when Phineas found himself back at Killaloe , and he was due to be at his office in London in November . 
`` Nay , Phineas ; there was no promise , '' she said . 
`` What especial drawback , Phineas ? '' 
`` Then , Mr. Finn , you must seek some one else who is equally blessed . '' 
`` Did love her , Mr. Finn ? '' 
`` Oh , Phineas ! '' 
said Phineas . 
`` Nothing at all in particular , '' said Phineas . 
Before Phineas had returned to London his engagement with Mary Flood Jones was known to all his family , was known to Mrs. Flood Jones , and was indeed known generally to all Killaloe . 
That other secret of his , which had reference to the probability of his being obliged to throw up his office , was known only to Mary herself . 
He thought that he had done all that honour required of him in telling her of his position before he had proposed ; -- so that she might on that ground refuse him if she were so minded . 
And yet he had known very well that such prudence on her part was not to be expected . 
If she loved him , of course she would say so when she was asked . 
And he had known that she loved him . 
`` There may be delay , Mary , '' he said to her as he was going ; `` nay , there must be delay , if I am obliged to resign . '' 
Mary , though of course she would have preferred that her future husband should remain in his high office , that he should be a member of Parliament and an Under-Secretary of State , admitted no doubt into her mind to disturb her happiness ; and Phineas , though he had many misgivings as to the prudence of what he had done , was not the less strong in his resolution of constancy and endurance . 
He would throw up his position , resign his seat , and go to work at the Bar instantly , if he found that his independence as a man required him to do so . 
And , above all , let come what might , he would be true to Mary Flood Jones . 
December was half over before he saw Lord Cantrip . 
`` He has written to me , and told me so , '' said Phineas . 
Nothing was said which made it then necessary for Phineas to get upon his legs or to declare himself ; but he perceived that the time would rapidly come in which he must do so . 
If all this came to pass and there should be a close division , Phineas felt that his fate would be sealed . 
When he again spoke to Lord Cantrip on the subject , the Secretary of State shrugged his shoulders and shook his head . 
Then Phineas assured her with tears in his eyes that such an arrangement was impossible without disgrace to him . 
But he whispered to this new friend no word of the engagement with his dear Irish Mary . 
His Irish life , he would tell himself , was a thing quite apart and separate from his life in England . 
He said not a word about Mary Flood Jones to any of those with whom he lived in London . 
Why should he , feeling as he did that it would so soon be necessary that he should disappear from among them ? 
About Miss Effingham he had said much to Madame Goesler . 
She had asked him whether he had abandoned all hope . 
And Phineas , as he made this acknowledgment , seemed to do so without much inward agony of soul . 
When he had been last in London he could not speak of Violet and Lord Chiltern together without showing that his misery was almost too much for him . 
`` Phineas , me boy , '' he said , `` if all this is thrue , you 're about up a tree . '' 
`` I do n't doubt the money in the least , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas so far agreed with his friend Laurence that he thought it possible that Madame Goesler might accept him were he to propose marriage to her . 
`` I do n't see how a fellow is to help himself , '' said Phineas . 
But look here , Phineas . 
`` And I shall always remember how it began , Barrington , '' said Phineas , who was greatly moved by the energy and solicitude of his friend . 
Phineas could only thank his friend for his advice , which was at least disinterested , and was good of its kind , and tell him that he would think of it . 
He did think of it very much . 
He almost thought that , were it to do again , he would allow Mr. Monk to go upon his tour alone , and keep himself from the utterance of anything that so good a judge as Erle could call stump balderdash . 
He had thought that Phineas was carrying on his trade as a public speaker with proper energy and continued success . 
He had cared nothing himself for tenant-right , and had acknowledged to Mr. Monk that he could not understand in what it was that the farmers were wronged . 
But he knew that Mr. Monk was a Cabinet Minister , and he thought that Phineas was earning his salary . 
Then there came some one who undeceived him , and the paternal bosom of the doctor was dismayed . 
Mrs. Finn had been talking to her , and Mary had taught herself to believe that after the many sweet conversations she had had with a man so high in office as Phineas , she really did understand something about the British Government . 
Mrs. Finn had interrogated Mary , and Mary had been obliged to own that it was quite possible that Phineas would be called upon to resign . 
Phineas in his great discomfort went to seek further counsel from Madame Goesler . 
Of all his counsellors , Madame Goesler was the only one who applauded him for what he was about to do . 
Phineas endeavoured to make her understand that of the four Prime Ministers whom she had named , three were men of the same party as himself , under whom it would have suited him to serve . 
said Phineas , laughing . 
Immediately after this Phineas left her , and as he went along the street he began to question himself whether the prospects of his own darling Mary were at all endangered by his visits to Park Lane ; and to reflect what sort of a blackguard he would be , -- a blackguard of how deep a dye , -- were he to desert Mary and marry Madame Max Goesler . 
Phineas had not on that account become at all ashamed of his conduct in reference to the duel , but he had conceived that any reconciliation between him and the Earl had been out of the question . 
Phineas had heard nothing of Lady Laura , and did not even know that she was in London till he saw her handwriting . 
He did know that she had not gone back to her husband , and that she had remained with her father all the winter at Saulsby . 
Of Mr. Kennedy , Phineas had as yet seen nothing since he had been up in town . 
At last , however , he came to London , and Phineas saw him in the House . 
Then , when the first meeting of the Cabinet was summoned after his return , it became known that he also had resigned his office . 
There was nothing said about his resignation in the House . 
He had resigned on the score of ill-health , and that very worthy peer , Lord Mount Thistle , formerly Sir Marmaduke Morecombe , came back to the Duchy of Lancaster in his place . 
A few days after this had been arranged , in the interval between Lord Brentford 's invitation and Lord Brentford 's dinner , Phineas encountered Mr. Kennedy so closely in one of the passages of the House that it was impossible that they should not speak to each other , unless they were to avoid each other as people do who have palpably quarrelled . 
Phineas saw that Mr. Kennedy was hesitating , and therefore took the bull by the horns . 
Phineas was not engaged , and allowed himself to be led out arm-in-arm by the late Chancellor of the Duchy into Westminister Hall . 
`` Yes ; -- I have heard of it , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas as he heard this could not but remember all that Lady Laura had told himself , and thought that no woman had ever had a better reason for leaving her husband . 
`` I suppose that is generally the way , '' replied Phineas . 
`` I fancy they never like it , '' said Phineas . 
Then he paused ; but as Phineas had no further remark to make , he continued speaking after they had walked about a third of the length of the hall . 
`` Well ; yes ; -- perhaps it would , '' said Phineas . 
Now it seemed to Phineas that of all the messengers whom Mr. Kennedy could have chosen he was the most unsuited to be a Mercury in this cause , -- not perceiving that he had been so selected with some craft , in order that Lady Laura might understand that the accusation against her was , at any rate , withdrawn , which had named Phineas as her lover . 
He paused again before he answered . 
`` Of course , '' he said , `` I should be most willing to be of service , if it were possible . 
The conference ended by a promise from Phineas that he would , if possible , say a word to Lady Laura . 
When he was shown into Lord Brentford 's drawing-room he found not only Lady Laura there , but her brother . 
`` He came in with me half an hour ago , and I suppose he does not dress as quickly as I do , '' said Lord Chiltern ; upon which Phineas immediately understood that the father and the son were reconciled , and he rushed to the conclusion that Violet and her lover would also soon be reconciled , if such were not already the case . 
He felt some remnant of a soreness that it should be so , as a man feels where his headache has been when the real ache itself has left him . 
Phineas felt quite sure now that Violet and her lover were reconciled , and he had a distinct feeling of the place where the ache had been . 
Barrington Erle followed , and Phineas had an opportunity of saying a word to his friend , Lord Chiltern , as they went down together . 
But there was not a word said about his marriage . 
There were only seven who sat down to dinner , and the six were all people with whom Phineas was or had been on most intimate terms . 
She quite understood the comfort which it was to her husband to have under him , as his representative in the House of Commons , a man whom he could thoroughly trust and like , and therefore she had used her woman 's arts to bind Phineas to her lord in more than mere official bondage . 
But Phineas had possessed a more grateful mind , and had done all that had been required of him ; -- had done all that had been required of him till there had come that terrible absurdity in Ireland . 
But though the party was very small , and though the guests were all his intimate friends , Phineas suspected nothing special till an attack was made upon him as soon as the servants had left the room . 
Then Phineas knew pretty well what was coming on him . 
`` You had better inquire that of Phineas Finn , '' said Barrington . 
They all wanted to keep him , -- so Lord Cantrip declared , `` except one or two whom I could name , and who are particularly anxious to wear his shoes , '' said Barrington , thinking that certain reminiscences of Phineas with regard to Mr. Bonteen and others might operate as strongly as any other consideration to make him love his place . 
It was for Sir Walter Morrison to have a conscience about Irish tenant-right , as no doubt he had , -- just as Phineas Finn had a conscience about Canada , and Jamaica , and the Cape . 
`` Mr. Finn knows , '' said Lady Laura , `` that since he first came into Parliament I have always believed in his success , and I have been very proud to see it . '' 
`` We shall weep over him , as over a fallen angel , if he leaves us , '' said Lady Cantrip . 
Phineas could only say that he would think of it ; -- and this he said in so irresolute a tone of voice that all the men then present believed that he was gained . 
`` In spite of anything that anybody may say , he will do what he thinks right when the time comes , '' said Laura to her father afterwards . 
`` I 'm afraid he is a mule , '' said Lady Cantrip to her husband . 
`` He 's a good mule up a hill with a load on his back , '' said his lordship . 
`` But with a mule there always comes a time when you ca n't manage him , '' said Lady Cantrip . 
But Lady Cantrip had never been in love with Phineas . 
Phineas found a moment , before he left Lord Brentford 's house , to say a word to Lady Laura as to the commission that had been given to him . 
`` Oh , no , -- not if he told you . '' 
`` He made me promise that I would . ' 
`` Tell him it can not be . 
Tell him that if he has any instruction to send me as to what he considers to be my duty , I will endeavour to comply , if that duty can be done apart . 
I will recognise him so far , because of my vow . 
But not even for the sake of my vow , will I endeavour to live with him . 
His presence would kill me ! '' 
When Phineas repeated this , or as much of this as he judged to be necessary , to Mr. Kennedy a day or two afterwards , that gentleman replied that in such case he would have no alternative but to seek redress at law . 
Mr. Monk 's bill was read the first time before Easter , and Phineas Finn still held his office . 
He had spoken to the Prime Minister once on the subject , and had been surprised at that gentleman 's courtesy ; -- for Mr. Gresham had the reputation of being unconciliatory in his manners , and very prone to resent any thing like desertion from that allegiance which was due to himself as the leader of his party . 
`` I fear I have made up my mind , '' said Phineas . 
At this time Phineas received the following letter from his darling Mary ; -- `` Floodborough , Thursday . 
`` Dearest Phineas , `` We have just got home from Killaloe , and mean to remain here all through the summer . 
Dear , dear , dear Phineas , indeed I wo n't . 
Such a man as was Phineas Finn always takes a delight which he can not express even to himself in the receipt of such a letter as this . 
There is nothing so flattering as the warm expression of the confidence of a woman 's love , and Phineas thought that no woman ever expressed this more completely than did his Mary . 
But nevertheless the truth came home to him more clearly day by day , that he of all men was the last who ought to have given himself up to such a passion . 
For her sake he ought to have abstained . 
So he told himself now . 
For her sake he ought to have kept aloof from her ; -- and for his own sake he ought to have kept aloof from Mr. Monk . 
Phineas , as he walked away , uttered a curse upon Mr. Howard Macleod . 
Mr. Howard Macleod was just beginning the glory of his life in London , and he , Phineas Finn , was bringing his to an end . 
With Mary 's letter in his pocket he went up to Portman Square . 
He had again got into the habit of seeing Lady Laura frequently , and was often with her brother , who now again lived at his father 's house . 
The amenities of such an interview , as this would be , had up to the present day been postponed ; and , in a certain way , Phineas had been used as a messenger between Mr. Kennedy and his wife 's family . 
She did not answer him for a while , and he was beginning to think of his own case also . 
Was it not hard that he too should be driven away ? 
`` But you will stay in London , Mr. Finn ? '' 
`` No , Mr. Finn . 
She was silent for a few moments , during which she changed her seat so as to come nearer to him , placing herself on a corner of a sofa close to the chair on which he was seated . 
Phineas put his hand up to his breastcoat pocket , and felt that Mary 's letter , -- her precious letter , -- was there safe . 
It certainly was not in his power to do this thing which Lady Laura recommended to him , but he hardly thought that the present was a moment suitable for explaining to her the nature of the impediment which stood in the way of such an arrangement . 
He had so lately spoken to Lady Laura with an assurance of undying constancy of his love for Miss Effingham , that he could not as yet acknowledge the force of another passion . 
He shook his head by way of reply . 
Again he did not answer her at once , and when he did speak the tone of his voice was altered . 
Still he said nothing of the letter in his pocket . 
Still he did not tell her of the letter in his pocket . 
He felt that she moved him , -- that she made him acknowledge to himself how great would be the pity of such a failure as would be his . 
He was quite as much alive as she could be to the fact that work at the Bar , either in London or in Dublin , would have no charms for him now . 
The prospect of such a life was very dreary to him . 
Even with the comfort of Mary 's love such a life would be very dreary to him . 
And then he knew , -- he thought that he knew , -- that were he to offer himself to Madame Goesler he would not in truth be rejected . 
She had told him that if poverty was a trouble to him he need be no longer poor . 
Of course he had understood this . 
Her money was at his service if he should choose to stoop and pick it up . 
And it was not only money that such a marriage would give him . 
He had acknowledged to himself more than once that Madame Goesler was very lovely , that she was clever , attractive in every way , and , as far as he could see , blessed with a sweet temper . 
`` I do not know how that might have been , '' said Phineas , hoarsely . 
he exclaimed . 
`` You are my friend , '' he said , stretching out his hand to her as he turned away his face . 
He put his hand into his pocket , and had the letter between his fingers with the purport of showing it to her . 
But at the moment the thought occurred to him that were he to do so , then , indeed , he would be bound for ever . 
He knew that he was bound for ever , -- bound for ever to his own Mary ; but he desired to have the privilege of thinking over such bondage once more before he proclaimed it even to his dearest friend . 
He had told her that she tempted him , and she stood before him now as a temptress . 
But lest it might be possible that she should not tempt in vain , -- that letter in his pocket must never be shown to her . 
In that case Lady Laura must never hear from his lips the name of Mary Flood Jones . 
He left her without any assured purpose ; -- without , that is , the assurance to her of any fixed purpose . 
Everybody in London would be there , and Phineas was resolved that as long as he remained in London he would be seen at places where everybody was seen . 
He would certainly be at Mrs. Gresham 's gathering ; but there was an hour or two before he need go home to dress , and as he had nothing to do , he went down to the smoking-room of his club . 
The seats were crowded , but there was one vacant ; and before he had looked about him to scrutinise his neighbourhood , he found that he had placed himself with Bonteen on his right hand and Ratler on his left . 
There were no two men in all London whom he more thoroughly disliked ; but it was too late for him to avoid them now . 
They instantly attacked him , first on one side and then on the other . 
replied Phineas . 
`` Change it for heaven 's sake , '' said Phineas . 
`` Know me as a declared foe then , '' said Phineas , `` and respect me . '' 
`` I had n't thought of the calculations , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas not being able to stand any more of this most unpleasant raillery , got up and went away . 
The club was distasteful to him , and he walked off and sauntered for a while about the park . 
He went down by the Duke of York 's column as though he were going to his office , which of course was closed at this hour , but turned round when he got beyond the new public buildings , -- buildings which he was never destined to use in their completed state , -- and entered the gates of the enclosure , and wandered on over the bridge across the water . 
As he went his mind was full of thought . 
Could it be good for him to give up everything for a fair face ? 
He swore to himself that of all women whom he had ever seen Mary was the sweetest and the dearest and the best . 
Violet , with all her skill , and all her strength , and all her grace , could never have written such a letter as that which he still held in his pocket . 
The best charm of a woman is that she should be soft , and trusting , and generous ; and who ever had been more soft , more trusting , and more generous than his Mary ? 
Of course he would be true to her , though he did lose the world . 
But to yield such a triumph to the Ratlers and Bonteens whom he left behind him , -- to let them have their will over him , -- to know that they would rejoice scurrilously behind his back over his downfall ! 
The feeling was terrible to him . 
The rooms and passages and staircases at Mrs. Gresham 's house were very crowded when Phineas arrived there . 
Phineas found that even Lord Chiltern was come , as he stumbled across his friend on the first foot-ground that he gained in his ascent towards the rooms . 
said Phineas . 
Phineas whispered . 
A little higher up , -- for Phineas was blessed with more patience than Lord Chiltern possessed , -- he came upon Mr. Monk . 
`` So you are still admitted privately , '' said Phineas . 
`` He has been very generous to me in detail as well as in abstract , '' said Phineas . 
asked Phineas . 
`` The question is decided now , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas could not tell his friend that a question of so great magnitude to him had been decided by the last sting which he had received from an insect so contemptible as Mr. Bonteen , but he expressed the feeling as well as he knew how to express it . 
`` We will fight the battle side by side , '' replied Phineas . 
After that he pushed his way still higher up the stairs , having no special purpose in view , not dreaming of any such success as that of reaching his host or hostess , -- merely feeling that it should be a point of honour with him to make a tour through the rooms before he descended the stairs . 
The thing , he thought , was to be done with courage and patience , and this might , probably , be the last time in his life that he would find himself in the house of a Prime Minister . 
`` Like the sparks , '' said Phineas . 
`` Yes , I have seen it , but do not believe it , '' said Phineas . 
Then there came up somebody else , and Phineas went on upon his slow course . 
He had longed for an opportunity to tell Mr. Gresham that he could go to Downing Street no more , but such opportunity had not reached him . 
`` Very tired , '' said Phineas . 
`` Of course it is a part of your duty , Mr. Finn . 
`` They 'll be shuffled very soon , '' said Phineas . 
He could not explain to Miss Fitzgibbon that it would never again be his fate to hold a single trump in his hand ; so he made another fight , and got on a few steps farther . 
He said a word as he went to half a dozen friends , -- as friends went with him . 
He was detained for five minutes by Lady Baldock , who was very gracious and very disagreeable . 
She told him that Violet was in the room , but where she did not know . 
`` She is somewhere with Lady Laura , I believe ; and really , Mr. Finn , I do not like it . '' 
Lady Baldock had heard that Phineas had quarrelled with Lord Brentford , but had not heard of the reconciliation . 
`` As far as I have heard the circumstances , Lady Laura was quite right , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas , who had nothing now to gain from Lady Baldock 's favour , left her abruptly , and went on again . 
He had a great desire to see Lady Laura and Violet together , though he could hardly tell himself why . 
He had not seen Miss Effingham since his return from Ireland , and he thought that if he met her alone he could hardly have talked to her with comfort ; but he knew that if he met her with Lady Laura , she would greet him as a friend , and speak to him as though there were no cause for embarrassment between them . 
But he was so far disappointed , that he suddenly encountered Violet alone . 
She had been leaning on the arm of Lord Baldock , and Phineas saw her cousin leave her . 
But he would not be such a coward as to avoid her , especially as he knew that she had seen him . 
`` Oh , Mr. Finn ! '' 
Phineas turned his head , and saw Mr. Kennedy standing with his back bolt upright against a door-post , with his brow as black as thunder . 
Phineas , not caring much about Lord Baldock and Miss Mouser , took Violet 's hand upon his arm , and very slowly made his way across the room to the spot indicated . 
`` Mr. Finn , '' she said , `` could you find Oswald ? 
I know he is here . '' 
`` He had gone , '' said Phineas . 
`` I was speaking to him downstairs . '' 
Phineas immediately started off to have the carriage called , and promised to return with as much celerity as he could use . 
As he went , making his way much quicker through the crowd than he had done when he had no such object for haste , he purposely avoided the door by which Mr. Kennedy had stood . 
Then Mr. Kennedy fought his way down the stairs , and Phineas Finn followed in his wake . 
About half an hour afterwards Phineas returned to the two ladies with tidings that the carriage would be at hand as soon as they could be below . 
And then , in the presence of Violet , Phineas gave the message . 
He thought it better that it should be given ; and were he to decline to deliver it now , it would never be given . 
Phineas thought much of all this as he went to his solitary lodgings . 
After all , was not the world much better with him than it was with either of those two wretched married beings ? 
He had not , at any rate as yet , sacrificed for money or social gains any of the instincts of his nature . 
He had been fickle , foolish , vain , uncertain , and perhaps covetous ; -- but as yet he had not been false . 
Then he took out Mary 's last letter and read it again . 
`` And poor Phineas Finn . '' 
`` Yes ; -- there is Mr. Finn . 
The only man I ever saw in the world whom I have thought for a moment that it was possible that I should like , -- like enough to love as my husband , -- except your brother , was Mr. Finn . '' 
Is he not going to marry Madame Goesler ? 
I hope she will be good to him , and gracious , and let him have his own way , and give him his tea comfortably when he comes up tired from the House ; for I confess that my heart is a little tender towards Phineas still . 
I should not like to think that he had fallen into the hands of a female Philistine . '' 
`` I do not think he will marry Madame Goesler . '' 
`` I can hardly tell you ; -- but I do not think he will . 
And you loved him once , -- eh , Violet ? '' 
Mr. Finn , when I came to measure him in my mind , was not small , but he was never quite tall enough . 
Mr. Finn was just half an inch too short . 
He lacks something in individuality . 
He is a little too much a friend to everybody . '' 
`` He is the only man whom I ever loved , '' said Lady Laura . 
`` But it was too late when you learned to love him , '' said Violet . 
`` And the hero , Phineas , -- he is still dear to you ? '' 
You would have hated me , had he become my husband ? 
`` A man like Mr. Finn has his life to deal with , -- to make the most of it , and to divide it between work , pleasure , duty , ambition , and the rest of it as best he may . 
If he have any softness of heart , it will be necessary to him that love should bear a part in all these interests . 
When Phineas Finn left Mr. Gresham 's house he had quite resolved what he would do . 
On the next morning he would tell Lord Cantrip that his resignation was a necessity , and that he would take that nobleman 's advice as to resigning at once , or waiting till the day on which Mr. Monk 's Irish Bill would be read for the second time . 
Phineas could only smile , and shrug his shoulders , and say that even though Mr. Monk were at Bath it would not probably make much difference . 
The debate on the second reading of Mr. Monk 's Bill would not take place till that day week , and the resignation would be in time if it was tendered before Phineas either spoke or voted against the Government . 
So Phineas went back to his room , and endeavoured to make himself useful in some work appertaining to his favourite Colonies . 
That conversation had taken place on a Friday , and on the following Sunday , early in the day , he left his rooms after a late breakfast , -- a prolonged breakfast , during which he had been studying tenant-right statistics , preparing his own speech , and endeavouring to look forward into the future which that speech was to do so much to influence , -- and turned his face towards Park Lane . 
There had been a certain understanding between him and Madame Goesler that he was to call in Park Lane on this Sunday morning , and then declare to her what was his final resolve as to the office which he held . 
Madame Goesler was a very pretty woman , who spared herself no trouble in making herself as pretty as Nature would allow , on behalf of those whom she favoured with her smiles ; and to such a lady some special attention was due by one who had received so many of her smiles as had Phineas . 
And he felt , too , that there was something special in this very visit . 
It was to be made by appointment , and there had come to be an understanding between them that Phineas should tell her on this occasion what was his resolution with reference to his future life . 
I think that he had been very wise in fortifying himself with a further glance at our dear Mary 's letter , before he trusted himself within Madame Goesler 's door . 
Phineas had become sufficiently intimate at the cottage in Park Lane to be on friendly terms with Madame Goesler 's own maid , and now made some little half-familiar remark as to the propriety of his visit during church time . 
asked Phineas . 
Then she took him up into the drawing-room ; but , when there , he found that Madame Goesler was absent . 
Phineas already knew enough of the art of living to be aware that the woman who had made that room what it was , had charms to add a beauty to everything she touched . 
What would such a life as his want , if graced by such a companion , -- such a life as his might be , if the means which were hers were at his command ? 
It would want one thing , he thought , -- the self-respect which he would lose if he were false to the girl who was trusting him with such sweet trust at home in Ireland . 
In a very few minutes Madame Goesler was with him , and , though he did not think about it , he perceived that she was bright in her apparel , that her hair was as soft as care could make it , and that every charm belonging to her had been brought into use for his gratification . 
He almost told himself that he was there in order that he might ask to have all those charms bestowed upon himself . 
He did not know who had lately come to Park Lane and been a suppliant for the possession of those rich endowments ; but I wonder whether they would have been more precious in his eyes had he known that they had so moved the heart of the great Duke as to have induced him to lay his coronet at the lady 's feet . 
I think that had he known that the lady had refused the coronet , that knowledge would have enhanced the value of the prize . 
`` I am so sorry to have kept you waiting , '' she said , as she gave him her hand . 
`` It is pleasant enough to be on the borders , '' said Phineas . 
`` I know nothing about that , Mr. Finn , and want to ask no questions . 
Madame Goesler , as she thus interrogated him , was leaning across towards him from the sofa on which she was placed , with both her elbows resting on a small table before her . 
Phineas , as he gazed into Madame Goesler 's eyes , was sure that the lady opposite to him was not acting . 
I tell you , Mr. Finn , that the House of Parliament is the place for you to work in . 
`` You have not said it quite all , '' said Phineas hoarsely . 
So saying , she stood before him with her right hand stretched out towards him . 
Then she strode out of the room , and was no more seen of the eyes of Phineas Finn . 
He never afterwards knew how he escaped out of that room and found his way into Park Lane . 
In after days he had some memory that he remained there , he knew not how long , standing on the very spot on which she had left him ; and that at last there grew upon him almost a fear of moving , a dread lest he should be heard , an inordinate desire to escape without the sound of a footfall , without the clicking of a lock . 
Everything in that house had been offered to him . 
He had refused it all , and then felt that of all human beings under the sun none had so little right to be standing there as he . 
His very presence in that drawing-room was an insult to the woman whom he had driven from it . 
But at length he was in the street , and had found his way across Piccadilly into the Green Park . 
Then , as soon as he could find a spot apart from the Sunday world , he threw himself upon the turf , and tried to fix his thoughts upon the thing that he had done . 
His first feeling , I think , was one of pure and unmixed disappointment ; -- of disappointment so bitter , that even the vision of his own Mary did not tend to comfort him . 
How great might have been his success , and how terrible was his failure ! 
Had he taken the woman 's hand and her money , had he clenched his grasp on the great prize offered to him , his misery would have been ten times worse the first moment that he would have been away from her . 
Then , indeed , -- it being so that he was a man with a heart within his breast , -- there would have been no comfort for him , in his outlooks on any side . 
But even now , when he had done right , -- knowing well that he had done right , -- he found that comfort did not come readily within his reach . 
Her daughter Augusta had explained to her that there was no chance remaining either for Phineas , or for Lord Fawn , or for Mr. Appledom . 
The day of the debate had come , and Phineas Finn was still sitting in his room at the Colonial Office . 
But his resignation had been sent in and accepted , and he was simply awaiting the coming of his successor . 
About noon his successor came , and he had the gratification of resigning his arm-chair to Mr. Bonteen . 
Phineas had been put in possession of no seal and no portfolio ; but there was in the room which he had occupied a special arm-chair , and this with much regret he surrendered to the use and comfort of Mr. Bonteen . 
said Phineas , trying to laugh . 
But Mr. Bonteen did not feel the intended satire , and poor Phineas found it useless to attempt to punish the man he hated . 
He left him as quickly as he could , and went to say a few words of farewell to his late chief . 
This was very kindly said , and Phineas was flattered and comforted . 
He could not , however , make Lord Cantrip understand the whole truth . 
`` You may be sure that I am sorry to be so lost , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas , when he heard this , knew well how terribly this very man had been harassed , and driven nearly wild , by defalcation , exactly of that nature which he was attempting to describe . 
`` We have given strong evidence that we think so , '' said Phineas . 
`` And therefore he resigned , '' said Phineas . 
`` I am nobody in this matter , '' said Phineas . 
`` I can assure you , Mr. Finn , that we have not regarded you in that light , and I hope that the time may come when we may be sitting together again on the same bench . '' 
Neither on the Treasury bench nor on any other in that House was he to sit again after this fashion ! 
That was the trouble which was crushing his spirit at this moment , and not the loss of his office ! 
He knew that he could not venture to think of remaining in London as a member of Parliament with no other income than that which his father could allow him , even if he could again secure a seat in Parliament . 
When Phineas thought of it all , there were many regrets . 
But there was at the same time a resolve on his part , that if any man had ever loved the girl he promised to love , he would love Mary Flood Jones . 
This might probably be the last great debate in which Phineas would be able to take a part , and he was determined that he would do his best in it . 
He did not intend to speak on this day , if , as was generally supposed , the House would be adjourned before a division could be obtained . 
But he would remain on the alert and see how the thing went . 
He had come to understand the forms of the place , and was as well-trained a young member of Parliament as any there . 
Mr. Monk , since he had been told positively by Phineas that he had resolved upon resigning his office , had said nothing more of his sorrow at his friend 's resolve , but had used him as one political friend uses another , telling him all his thoughts and all his hopes as to this new measure of his , and taking counsel with him as to the way in which the fight should be fought . 
Phineas seeing and understanding all this , said but little to his friend of his own prospects . 
As long as this pleasant battle was raging , he could fight in it shoulder to shoulder with the man he loved . 
`` He expressly said that he only spoke for himself , '' said Phineas . 
`` Men who think much want to speak often , '' said Phineas . 
asked Phineas . 
`` Of course he will dissolve , '' said Phineas , speaking of Mr. Gresham ; `` what else can he do ? '' 
Good-night , Phineas . 
On the Wednesday Phineas was engaged to dine with Mr. Low . 
There was a dinner party in Bedford Square , and Phineas met half-a-dozen barristers and their wives , -- men to whom he had looked up as successful pundits in the law some five or six years ago , but who since that time had almost learned to look up to him . 
And now they treated him with that courteousness of manner which success in life always begets . 
The judge had got his prize in life , and was therefore personally indifferent to the fate of ministers ; but the judge 's wife had a brother who wanted a County Court from Lord De Terrier , and it was known that Phineas was giving valuable assistance towards the attainment of this object . 
Phineas who understood how it came to pass that the judge 's wife should so cordially approve his conduct , could not help thinking how grand a thing it would be for him to have a County Court for himself . 
When the guests were gone he was left alone with Mr. and Mrs. Low , and remained awhile with them , there having been an understanding that they should have a last chat together over the affairs of our hero . 
I 'm sure I hope you 'll get on , Mr. Finn . 
`` I am sure he will , if he puts his shoulder to it , '' said Mr. Low . 
The fall with which they had threatened Phineas Finn had come upon him , and they were too generous to remind him of their wisdom and sagacity . 
Indeed , when he got up to take his leave , Mrs. Low , who probably might not see him again for years , was quite affectionate in her manners to him , and looked as if she were almost minded to kiss him as she pressed his hand . 
On the Thursday morning before Phineas went to Mr. Monk , a gentleman called upon him at his lodgings . 
Phineas requested the servant to bring up the gentleman 's name , but tempted perhaps by a shilling the girl brought up the gentleman instead . 
`` Mr. Finn , '' said Quintus , with his hand extended , `` I have come to offer you the calumet of peace . '' 
Phineas certainly desired no such calumet . 
He had never cared a straw for the abuse which Mr. Slide had poured upon him , and now he gave his hand to the man of letters . 
`` I do n't know why I should be asked particularly to accept war or peace , '' said Phineas . 
Phineas was obliged to explain that he had not hitherto been made acquainted with this great literary and political secret . 
Well , now , Mr. Finn , I will just offer you one word of apology for our little severities . '' 
It was now becoming very disagreeable , and Phineas was beginning to perceive that it would soon be his turn to say something rough . 
`` Mr. Slide , '' said Phineas , -- and then he paused . 
You printed a heap of lies -- '' `` Lies , Mr. Finn ! 
And Phineas walked over at him as though he were going to pitch him instantly out of the window . 
Then he opened the door and stood with it in his hand . 
But he resisted the temptation and walked down the stairs , concocting his article as he went . 
Mr. Quintus Slide did not so much impede the business of his day but what Phineas was with Mr. Monk by two , and in his place in the House when prayers were read at four . 
As he sat in his place , conscious of the work that was before him , listening to the presentation of petitions , and to the formal reading of certain notices of motions , which with the asking of sundry questions occupied over half an hour , he looked back and remembered accurately his own feelings on a certain night on which he had intended to get up and address the House . 
The ordeal before him had then been so terrible , that it had almost obliterated for the moment his senses of hearing and of sight . 
He had hardly been able to perceive what had been going on around him , and had vainly endeavoured to occupy himself in recalling to his memory the words which he wished to pronounce . 
When the time for pronouncing them had come , he had found himself unable to stand upon his legs . 
He smiled as he recalled all this in his memory , waiting impatiently for the moment in which he might rise . 
His audience was assured to him now , and he did not fear it . 
His opportunity for utterance was his own , and even the Speaker could not deprive him of it . 
Phineas did not stir out of the House till the division was over , having agreed with Mr. Monk that they two would remain through it all and hear everything that was to be said . 
`` And now , '' said Mr. Monk , as he again walked home with Phineas , `` the pity is that we are not a bit nearer tenant-right than we were before . '' 
`` It is no loss of time , '' said Phineas , `` to have taken the first great step in making it . '' 
The session was over , and they who knew anything of the private concerns of Mr. Phineas Finn were aware that he was about to return to Ireland , and did not intend to reappear on the scene which had known him so well for the last five years . 
`` And it makes me sad too , '' said Phineas . 
To the very last , however , Mr. Monk continued to express his opinion that Phineas would come back , declaring that he had known no instance of a young man who had made himself useful in Parliament , and then had been allowed to leave it in early life . 
Among those of whom he was bound to take a special leave , the members of the family of Lord Brentford were , of course , the foremost . 
`` Oh , Mr. Finn , what a beautiful speech you made . 
said Phineas . 
`` Thank you , Mr. Finn , '' said Violet , taking his hand with hearty kindness . 
He 's down there at the Bull , and I 've taken a little box close by . 
Then Phineas had to explain that he had come to bid them farewell , and that it was not at all probable that he should ever be able to see Willingford again in the hunting season . 
`` I do not mean to be impatient about it , nor yet unhappy , '' said Phineas . 
Then Phineas left the room , with his throat so full that he could not speak another word . 
It must be understood , however , that Phineas had never spoken a word to any one as to the offer which the German woman had made to him . 
It was on the morning of the Sunday on which he was to leave London that he saw Lady Laura . 
He had asked that it might be so , in order that he might then have nothing more upon his mind . 
He found her quite alone , and he could see by her eyes that she had been weeping . 
As he looked at her , remembering that it was not yet six years since he had first been allowed to enter that room , he could not but perceive how very much she was altered in appearance . 
`` So you have come to say good-bye , '' she said , smiling as she rose to meet him . 
Then she paused ; but he was silent , sitting with his hat dangling in his two hands , and his eyes fixed upon the floor . 
`` Do you know , Mr. Finn , '' she continued , `` that sometimes I am very angry with myself about you . '' 
Then again he was silent . 
She did not know what it was that she wanted , but she did desire some expression from his lips that should be warmer than an expression of gratitude . 
Indeed , she knew that from him no such insult could come . 
But she was in that morbid , melancholy state of mind which requires the excitement of more than ordinary sympathy , even though that sympathy be all painful ; and I think that she would have been pleased had he referred to the passion for herself which he had once expressed . 
If he would have spoken of his love , and of her mistake , and have made some half-suggestion as to what might have been their lives had things gone differently , -- though she would have rebuked him even for that , -- still it would have comforted her . 
But at this moment , though he remembered much that had passed between them , he was not even thinking of the Braes of Linter . 
`` No disgrace , certainly , '' said Phineas . 
`` And I also am going to be a nobody , '' said Phineas , laughing . 
`` A man 's allowance of time may be short too , '' said Phineas . 
`` I had thought , Mr. Finn , that you would have married , '' she said in her very lowest voice . 
`` That the Duke of Omnium offered to make her his wife , and that she refused him for your sake . '' 
`` There is nothing that people wo n't say ; -- nothing on earth , '' said Phineas . 
Then he got up and took his leave of her . 
He also wanted to part from her with some special expression of affection , but he did not know how to choose his words . 
He had wished that some allusion should be made , not to the Braes of Linter , but to the close confidence which had so long existed between them ; but he found that the language to do this properly was wanting to him . 
`` Well done , Mr. Finn , well done , '' said Bunce . 
`` You always told me I should ruin myself in Parliament , and so I have , '' said Phineas . 
`` God bless you , Mr. Finn , '' said Mrs. Bunce with her handkerchief up to her eyes . 
Then they shook hands with him through the window , and the train was off . 
But our hero , Phineas Finn , as he turned his back upon the scene of his many successes , and prepared himself for permanent residence in his own country , was , I think , in a worse plight than any of the reduced divinities to whom I have alluded . 
He , like Icarus , had flown up towards the sun , hoping that his wings of wax would bear him steadily aloft among the gods . 
Seeing that his wings were wings of wax , we must acknowledge that they were very good . 
But the celestial lights had been too strong for them , and now , having lived for five years with lords and countesses , with ministers and orators , with beautiful women and men of fashion , he must start again in a little lodging in Dublin , and hope that the attorneys of that litigious city might be good to him . 
On his journey home he made but one resolution . 
He would make the change , or attempt to make it , with manly strength . 
During his last month in London he had allowed himself to be sad , depressed , and melancholy . 
Nobody at home should see that he was depressed . 
And Mary , his own Mary , should at any rate have no cause to think that her love and his own engagement had ever been the cause to him of depression . 
Did he not value her love more than anything in the world ? 
A thousand times he told himself that he did . 
She was there in the old house at Killaloe to greet him . 
She was in his arms before he had spoken to his father and mother , and had made her little speech to him , -- very inaudibly indeed , -- while he was covering her sweet face with kisses . 
`` Oh , Phineas , I am so proud of you ; and I think you are so right , and I am so glad you have done it . '' 
Again he covered her face with kisses . 
Could he ever have had such satisfaction as this had he allowed Madame Goesler 's hand to remain in his ? 
On the first night of his arrival he sat for an hour down-stairs with his father talking over his plans . 
He felt , -- he could not but feel , -- that he was not the hero now that he had been when he was last at Killaloe , -- when he had come thither with a Cabinet Minister under his wing . 
The old doctor was not quite as well off as he had been when Phineas first started with his high hopes for London . 
Since that day he had abandoned his profession and was now living on the fruits of his life 's labour . 
For the last two years he had been absolved from the necessity of providing an income for his son , and had probably allowed himself to feel that no such demand upon him would again be made . 
Now , however , it was necessary that he should do so . 
Could his son manage to live on two hundred a-year ? 
Phineas swore that he could fight his battle on a hundred and fifty , and they ended the argument by splitting the difference . 
He had been paying exactly the same sum of money for the rooms he had just left in London ; but then , while he held those rooms , his income had been two thousand a-year . 
`` I hope it may not be very long , '' said Phineas . 
Remember , Phineas , I am not proposing it myself . '' 
Then Phineas bethought himself that he was not even yet so low in the world that he need submit himself to terms dictated to him by Mrs. Flood Jones . 
`` Why so , Phineas ? '' 
The decision to which Phineas had come on this matter was probably made known to Mrs. Flood Jones after some mild fashion by old Mrs. Finn . 
Nothing more was said to Phineas about a joint household ; but he was quite able to perceive from the manner of the lady towards him that his proposed mother-in-law wished him to understand that he was treating her daughter very badly . 
None of them would ever hear how well he had behaved to his little Mary . 
But Mary did know it all before he left her to go up to Dublin . 
The two lovers allowed themselves , -- or were allowed by their elders , one week of exquisite bliss together ; and during this week , Phineas told her , I think , everything . 
He told her everything as far as he could do so without seeming to boast of his own successes . 
`` All these has he known and loved , culling sweets from each of them . 
But now he has come to me , and I am the sweetest of them all . '' 
During those lovely summer evening walks along the shores of Lough Derg , Phineas was as happy as he had ever been at any moment of his life . 
`` I shall never be impatient , -- never , '' she said to him on the last evening . 
And , Phineas , I must tell you one thing , -- though it makes me sad to think of it , and will make me sad to speak of it . '' 
said Phineas stoutly . 
She must not be your wife now , Phineas . 
Had he done right ? 
Which of them had loved him , or was capable of loving him as Mary loved him ? 
What girl was ever so sweet , so gracious , so angelic , as his own Mary ? 
He swore to her that he was prouder of winning her than of anything he had ever done in all his life , and that of all the treasures that had ever come in his way she was the most precious . 
She went to bed that night the happiest girl in all Connaught , although when she parted from him she understood that she was not to see him again till Christmas-Eve . 
But she did see him again before the summer was over , and the manner of their meeting was in this wise . 
Be that as it may , just before the summer session was brought to a close Phineas received the following letter from Lord Cantrip : -- `` Downing Street , August 4 , 186 -- . 
`` My dear Mr. Finn , -- `` Mr. Gresham has been talking to me , and we both think that possibly a permanent Government appointment may be acceptable to you . 
`` It is nothing very great for a perpetuity , '' said Phineas . 
`` Oh , Phineas ; surely a thousand a-year will be very nice . '' 
`` It will be certain , '' said Phineas , `` and then we can be married to-morrow . '' 
`` Then your mind must be unmade , '' said Phineas . 
