No , dear ; you are mistaken in Molton . 
I care not what proof you have to offer me ; -- nay , though it be that of your own senses -- or mine -- I would sooner doubt them both , than believe that Edward Molton is a scoundrel . 
-- He has used no argument ; -- no expostulation ; no entreaty ; no defence ; yet , I declare to you , my dear Sarah , that I am ready , at this moment , as you said I should be , to bleed and die for Edward Molton -- for whom ? 
Is not Edward Molton fashioned like ourselves ? 
and yet , if they , that know him , are to be believed , so damnable a villain , that his very breath is poison , insinuating itself , like a subtile vapour into the sound and pure of heart ; and there operating , like death , till all is blackness and ashes . 
Edward isa villain : but I want you to tell me , exactly , how he looked and acted , -LRB- for he is a masterly actor , and can deceive any human being , youthful and artless as he appears , with the counterfeit of any passion , feeling , character or emotion . -RRB- 
-- look at me ; -- look in that glass -- there is the face of the haughty Edward . 
-- speak but the word , and so sure as my name is Edward Molton -- so sure as I am beloved of thee , thou terrible woman , so sure will I bring that naughty girl to my feet -- as I have thee . 
Of Molton . 
When he handed me your letter , I read it ; and , I am not ashamed to say , that I read it , as for the first time . 
How different did it appear to me , while you read it , with your lips quivering , and your eyes darting fire about them , when I thought that he deserved your keenest , deadliest invective . 
But when I read it in his presence ; that calm , beautiful self-possession , that gentle and deep serenity of his , which seemed disquieted but for a single moment , as he read , I am sure , with a convulsion at his heart ; thatunmanned me ; I could have wept almost , for having so dishonoured him . 
When I had done , I reached the letter back to him , without daring to lift my eyes to his face . 
I was overpowered with shame and sorrow , for the part that I had acted ; and yet I was unspeakably happy that I had not , after my nature , abruptly insulted him , at once ; and that continues to be a great consolation to me . 
-- The repose and steadiness of his look ; -- the quiet , habitual dignity of his motion ; -- the musick of his voice , so manly and composed , so unlike what I looked for , from one so emaciated and girlish . 
He was leaning upon his hand . 
A silence , I should think , of four or five minutes , followed ; after which , he slowly raised his head . 
His pale blue eyes had become intensely dark ; and his light , silky hair , was disordered , strangely , by his hands , just as if he had been tearing it -- while I was looking down upon the floor . 
`` It is hard to bear , '' said he , looking me full in the face , -- `` and I have only one reply to make to it . 
The question was so abrupt , that it disturbed me ; and I knew not what I said ; but , to my last hour , Sarah , I shall not forget what hesaid -- no , nor what he did . 
He arose , and came to me ; -- deliberately folded his arms : and never changed his attitude , or voice , or look , till I was ready to fall at his feet . 
`` Sir , '' said he , -- `` I understand your embarrassment . 
it is very strange ... I could have sworn that some one was breathing near me ; and , as I turned , there was a soft sound , that , to my ear , seemed like naked feet ... passing secretly away from my elbow ... I wish that I was out of this uncomfortable old mansion , -- these fancies are very childish , to be sure ; and yet , they agitate me , as if I were some fooolish girl , shut up in one of the old haunted ruins of ... but this will never do ... On looking back , I find that I was about saying that I could almost see thee weeping ; yes , weeping Sarah , in contrition and bitterness , for what thou hast said of Molton . 
O , Edward , when I used to listen to thee , till I thought my heart would burst ; and hear thee talk of this great people , so full of republican simplicity , so stern and spartan-like , `` a commonwealth of kings , '' till thy strange face shook all over , with the passion beneath it , like the reflection of something terrible in troubled water ; my spirit arose , to intercede for them , among the kings , and princes , and nobility of Europe . 
Why did I trust to thee , Edward ? 
Edward , I am used to speak plainly ; and I shall not depart from my settled habitude , even thought it may hurt thee ; -- for thou knowest my veneration for such men as George Washington , and others , like him , the growth of America , when God , himself , fought her battles , and bred her children ; -- and thou wilt endure my plainness , while I lament her degeneracy . 
Nay , Edward , so ridiculous is this bustle and parade of imitation , at times , that I should be tempted to laugh at it , outright , were it not too serious a thing for laughter , when considered in its true light , -- the symptom of a mortal degeneracy , in a brave and great people . 
But I am getting too serious ; and were I disposed to be a little merry , at one of the most melancholy hours of my life , which is exactly this , I should continue the illustration , and inform my Edward , that I have lately seen some of the natural consequences of excess ; -- met a few sufficiently alarming contractions -- disorders -- and spasms , within the last week -- ah ! 
the door opens -- -- * * * * * a letter from thee , Edward ! 
-- I knew not what I should do -- fatigued and wearried to death as I am , -- with thy rebellious and confident spirit -- -LRB- that is a badly constructed sentence Edward ; -- it is easily misunderstood , if thou ` rt in an evil disposition , but I have not the heart to mend it . -RRB- 
-- It is so wearing , this impertinent routine of folly and dissipation , that I had rather hear thy voice in its sternest mood , when I kneel before thee , trembling in every joint , than endure this chill and lonely , desolate feeling , which follows the riotous excitement of such a place as -- : No , I can not write any more -- my heart is too full -- good night , Edward -- good night -- dear , dearEdward -- good night ! 
I have just read thy letter again , Edward . 
-- O , Edward ! 
Thou durstnot -- O , Edward forgive me ! 
O , Edward , what have I done to thee , that thou shouldst dare -- what ! 
dareagain -- indeed , I forgot myself , but this language is so natural to me ; and then , it would be so proper , if addressed to any other human creature -- than to Edward . 
Edward ! 
No matter ; -- come to me , Edward , and I will forgive thee all -- Curse me , if thou wilt , but come to me . 
After your interview with that Molton ; -- that wretch , whose very name is so hateful to me , that my hand is convulsed , and my frame shivers , as I write it , you told me that he used `` no argument , no expostulation , no entreaty '' to convince you that he was an injured man . 
-- this creature of the imagination , instead of rebuking , in the sublime quiet of a great heart , as you had represented , all suspicion and doubt , and dishonour ; had really argued the question of his guilt and innocence , before you , in a masterly style -- deliberately -- and ... John -- dear John -- I have no more to say -- no , nothing -- except this . 
O -- I well nigh forgot to tell you , that Molton has a beautiful half-sister , a most queen-like creature , who has been some weeks at Washington , the wonder and idolatry of the place . 
He has just returned with her ; and , it is said , intends going over to Europe . 
She has been seriously ill , I am told ; and he is the most affectionate brother in the world -- constantly with her , since last Tuesday evening , when they arrived . 
To the agent of Edward Molton ! 
It was admirably managed : and Molton is in actual possession , at this moment . 
By the enclosed , you will perceive that I have good reason to suspect that the girl , whom you will recollect only , as Helen , and speak of , in the same way , when you write to me , lest any of our letters should miscarry , is really in this country , after all : -- nay -- that she is , in what capacity I know not , whether wife , or mistress , a follower of Edward Molton ! 
`` Edward Molton , '' was the reply . 
Is he named Molton ? 
If the sister of Molton be really Helen -- , it is highly probable that Molton , himself , is the wretch , of whom we have been so long in search . 
How providential it is -- Can he possibly elude us now ? 
The weather has been exceedingly unfavourable , and all that I can hear is , that Molton and his half sisterare occupying the old mansion at -- on the Hill ; -- that they have still the same English servant , -LRB- but his livery is changed ;-RRB- -- and have given out that they shall neither give nor receive visits during the winter . 
He has forgiven Molton the trick ; for , indeed it deserves no better name , in getting the house ; and has actually been closeted with him for some hours , and refuses to communicate with me . 
Mr. Arrinaut has been here , to call Molton to account . 
He was Molton 's friend ! 
-- After some conversation , in which Mr. Arrinaut lost all command of himself , while Molton maintained the most invincible composure , the former struck the latter . 
John immediately interfered -- but what did Molton ? 
Molton smiled -- and it was then , that my brother shut the door . 
The most provoking , insolent language was continued on the part of Mr. A. and endured by Molton , until my brother lost pall atience ; -- at this moment , just as he was on the point , -LRB- you know his impetuosity ; and a legion of devils , at such a moment , would not frighten him -RRB- -- of bursting open the door , cursing Molton to his head for a poltron , and perhaps throwing Mr. A. out of the window -- he heard the names of Maria Howard , and Helen -- somebody -- -LRB- the last name he did not hear , -RRB- pronounced ; and , the next moment , a loud shriek , and the sound of one dashed against the door where he stood ... He retreated , stunned , as it opened in his face , and saw a man stagger against the wall -- his cravat stained and torn , and the blood gushing out of his mouth . 
Molton followed ; -- his hands all red -- quivering like a young lion over his prey ; and was only prevented from completing his work of death , by the interference of my brother . 
Brother , said he -- I would sooner encounter -- anybody -- anything -- than Edward Molton , at such a moment . 
There was nothing human in his countenance . 
I had thought him feeble and sickly ; but his arms were now bare -- how , I know not -- he was in his dressing gown when I left him ; and his muscles looked as if they would burst through the skin . 
You know the size of Mr. A. yet he was dashed to the earth , by Molton , like an infant -- senseless -- blinded -- and red with his own blood , as if a thunderbolt had struck him . 
It was half an hour , before he recovered -- and , when he did , the first object that his dim eyes encountered , was the face of Molton , who stood over him , with his brow gathered , and arms folded , so full of mortal determination , that my brother expected him to fasten upon his victim 's throat , at the first respiration . 
-- Mary ; -- forgive me , dear , '' said Molton , as if recollecting himself instantly -- `` what done to me ? 
His voice trembled , as he said this : -- and John said that his countenance softened to a melancholy , beautiful gentleness , kinder than humanity -- far kinder -- and he added , `` Mary , his punishment is with thee now . 
It occurred yesterday morning ; and to-day Mr. A. set off for his farm in Virginia ; and John says , that , when they parted , he and Molton , they embraced ; and Mr. A. said -- `` Sir , you have forgiven me , but I shall never forgive myself . 
There , cousin , I have related the whole , as nearly as I could , in John 's own words ; and , allowing all that I think right , for his extravagance , I can not but add , that there has been something sublime in the carriage of Molton , on this occasion . 
The only difference that I know is , that , at present , I believe Molton a more dangerous man than ever , because less feeble and effeminate . 
The secluded life of Molton , of which you speak , is strictly in character . 
It is possible that Molton may not be a dastard ; but still it is equally possible that he is . 
Nay , more -- he has repeated the lesson to Molton ; who with his own hand , wrote as much upon the back of your insulting note to him ... adding a cold compliment , at the same time , to your consistency . 
Yes , Frank , it is possible that I have not sought to cherish a truly christian spirit , toward Edward Molton ; it is possiblethat I have judged him too harshly ; but , nevertheless , I have every reason to believe , that he is a hypocrite , a dastard , and a villain . 
'Till then , I hope not to mention his name again . 
I have some things to repent of , bitterly and seriously , in which he was concerned ; and , while I think no better of him , I think much worse of myself . 
And , as an especial favour , I beg of you not to mention any thing again , that , by any accident , you may chance to hear him say of me . 
I despise , I detest him , so heartily , that I can not express to you , how humbled I feel , when I learn that he speaks of me . 
He saw Mr. Arrinaut ; and Molton has not a more devoted friend on earth . 
He said to my brother , as they parted , with tears in his eyes , `` you have wronged Molton -- we have all wronged him . 
He is an innocent man , so far as I am concerned ; further than that , I have nothing to say . 
He has convinced me -- and I take upon myself to say , that Miss Howard ... or Miss -- , her real name , I am not permitted to tell , is a woman , fitted for the society of queens . 
I had heard of Molton 's half sister ; and I knew of a circumstance that seemed rather mysterious , if she were truly his half sister . 
There is one thing certain : they say , that , if Molton be her betrayer , he is , actually , at this moment , holding his life at the mercy of the law . 
I should begin to pity him , sick and wasted as he is , were he anybody but Edward Molton , if I heard that he was arraigned for his life . 
If so , let Molton beware ! 
Something has happened of late , to make me question my own knowledge of his affair with Juliet . 
His chaacter darkens , and she -- she is mad , I verily believe ; for , I have good reason to think , that she -- let it not hurt you , my dear Frank , to hear it -- that she loves him yet . 
Well , Edward , to continue , where I left off ; and this I hope will be the last of my journalizing . 
I have only a moment more -- in which , if you are not already wearied to death , you may follow me , dear Edward , while I speak of the publick buildings . 
Edward , I must be serious here . 
-- to say nothing of the ridiculous conceit of perpetuatingthe memory of George Washingtonby a work , that mustcrumble in a few centuries ... Why is it , Edward , that I never think of that man , without sitting more erect in my chair ? 
When I was at home , I dreaded to approach him . 
I feared that I should find him , as I had others , who were called great . 
-- I stood upon his grave . 
Were they instinct with his spirit ? 
-- They had been nourished with his blood -- and substance . 
-- Edward -- not a flower sprung there ! 
He was gentle ; and if warmth and richness of soil were enough , his tomb had been a heap of blossom and verdure -- trodden and crushed incense and odour -- . 
-LSB- 2 -RSB- There , Edward , I can not go on -- my travelling spirit -- my familiar has departed . 
Nay -- more than this , -- there is somewhat inexplicable in the deportment of Molton toward her . 
Am I his confidant ? 
At one time , I thought that I could read his heart . 
He appears to have no disguise . 
I am obliged to believe him ; for there is no trick , no subterfuge , no artifice about him . 
If I ask him a question , he either answers it , at once ; or says plainly , that he can not , or will not . 
I find , too , that he has not been so intimate with her , as I supposed . 
Do you believe that it is Molton , whom she loves ? 
It may kill me in time ; because , with him for a rival , I have no hope ; -- but it will not do it immediately . 
If she do not , -- how is it , that his name -- his very name , so agitates her ? 
I have seen her colour to the eyes , -- and then become so deathly pale , that I had not the strength to touch her -- she was like a corpse -- at the sound of his voice , as he passed , one day in the street . 
If I thought so -- by heaven , I would blast him forever . 
He is all that is noble . 
He is in my power , Sarah ; -- and I can not use it ungently . 
I have determined to sound Molton 's heart , -- I have had a terrible suspicion sometimes , -- but he is inaccessible to me . 
He only smiles , looks me in the face , and shakes his head -- as much as to say ; `` Forbear -- my heart has no door for the suspicious . '' 
He betrays no emotion . 
I even mention Helen ; -- the colour of his troubled blue eye deepens , but his voice changes not . 
-- O , I feel sometimes , when she sings , as if I could lay down my head in her lap , and weep there forever , at the sound of her voice ; and then , her dark , lustrous eyes -- at times they are fastened upon the face of Molton , as he sits by her , and reads -- -LRB- O , would that you could hear himread -- there is no musick like it -- so impassioned -- so solemn -- so thrilling -RRB- -- with an expression , that is -- no , it is not love -- it is not tenderness -- it is something more terrible . 
The good people instantly abandoned the horses , and took to their heels ; but , willing to quicken their pace , Molton made deliberate aim at one of them , and shot away a part of his camblet cloak , in mere wantonness . 
He is a man of iron . 
He has none of the attributes of humanity . 
He is dying , I believe -- but he forbids me to allude to it , or to observe it before Helen ; for she appears to feel every change in him , like the touch of death upon her own heart . 
I have seen her faint away ; -- and lie , like a dead creature , for hours , when he happened to grow suddenly pale , and put his hand to his side . 
-- and I am sure that I heard noises there -LRB- in the room too , where Molton sleeps , and where I used to sleep -RRB- last night , -- that -- I knew not why , affected me in an unaccountable manner . 
* * * * * * * * * It is Molton himself . 
* * * I went to the door , and spoke to him -- but either his voice had changed , or I was more disturbed than I am willing to believe ; for , when he replied , my terrour amounted almost to phrensy . 
The voice was not his . 
-- The only thing , that I recollect , distinctly , is , that Molton stood , as if death struck -- pale -- ghostly pale , and shivering , with his arms outstretched , as I entered ! 
-- and that he exclaimed -- or at least , the words rang in my affrighted ears , all night long - `` William ! 
The light fell from his hand , and we lay together in darkness , till they came to relieve us . 
-- When I recovered , for I was stunned , I saw Molton sitting at his table -- a naked sword lay upon it -- and a pair of pistols . 
-- Helen was sitting beside him , in her night dress , and clinging to him , O , with such distracted eyes , and bloodless lips , that my veins ran cold in looking at her . 
Molton never spoke nor moved . 
I waited like a culprit , willing to hear his voice : -- and not daring to trust my own . 
But his brow was calm and immoveable , as the coldest marble . 
I was fain to begin -- I faltered -- I mentioned the sound , the groan -- he awoke , all at once then . 
`` I heard the same , '' said he ; `` was that all ! 
Who does not suffer in his dreaming , more than he could , were he awake . 
He is composed to-day ; and there is a great serenity in his face , unlike anything that I ever have seen , in a living countenance , except in Molton 's , once or twice ; -- such as I should look for , in one who had been familiar with death -- for a long , long time , in his very presence chamber . 
I fear that it would jar him to dissolution ; but how mistaken I am . 
He speaks of her -- firmly -- unaffectedly ; -- but with a slight compression of the lip -- and a deep and impressive solemnity ; and he no longer weeps , but he prays for her . 
Nay , has not he , that same Molton , has he not been publickly called the destroyer of William and me?But how of me?The charge is terrible , let it bear what countenance it may . 
Molton is the man . 
Edward Molton -- he , whom I could curse ! 
But he is the man that Juliet loves!How are you , now , Sarah ? 
Molton had seen her . 
-- Yet , how did he behave ? 
Where is her dread , now , of Molton ? 
Why is he admitted ? 
Does not her aunt remember him ? 
-- detest him ? 
He replaced her hands -- they were meekly crossed upon her lap ; -- and a smile , yes , a smile , the second that I ever saw , of the heart , in Molton 's face , played all over it ; -- and the effect of that smile , so sweet , so melancholy , was such -- you will hardly believe it -- that my own eyes ached . 
Take them , Mr. -- take them , Edward . 
There will be a time '' -- -LRB- The smile returned , and he put his lips to her hand . 
`` When I am no more , Edward '' -- -LRB- I looked at him , as she said this ; -- there was no change , nor shadow of change , in his face ; but his eyes were nearly shut -- and his hands were locked , in the attitude of one listening to strange musick , issuing from his own heart . -RRB- 
cried Juliet , in a tone of horrour -- alarmed , it was evident , more by the look with which the words were spoken , than by the words themselves -- `` What mean you , Edward ? '' 
-- `` I mean -- I know not what ; -- but it might happen , dear Juliet -- it mighthappen , that one could foresee his own death . '' 
She put her hand upon his forehead -- `` Edward Molton , '' said she , in a tone so sweet , so solemn -- oh ! 
Look up , Edward ! 
It may be , as thou sayest , my friend , that -- that -- Nay , I need not repeat it ; but if it should be -- which God , in his mercy , avert -- then -- then , Edward , the seal may be broken . '' 
Molton arose . 
He took the papers -- the book ; -- but his face was very stern , then -- and there was one moment , a single moment , when I thought that he was about to dash the book upon the floor -- his eyes lightened -- but it was all over , instantly ; -- and he stood high and dark before her , as at first , and full of tremendous repose . 
`` I must leave you , '' he said , in a firm voice ; `` and , from the situation in which I now see you , it is probable that we shall never meet again -- on this earth , Juliet ; ----- but -- but -- we shallmeet , somewhere , sooner than they expect . 
-LRB- I would have interfered here , but Juliet forbade it ; -- and Molton darkened all over , like a sorcerer , whose untimely spell is interrupted and broken , at the moment of its consummation . -RRB- 
-- and believe me -- me ; -- hear me say , that the time shall come , when all that troubled thee , will have passed away ; when all the darkness and mystery , which I would not , even to thy solicitation , put away , at our last interview , shall be no more ; -- and yet -- believe me -- Edward Molton will never repeat that , which thy poor heart now thrills at the recollection of . 
Juliet gasped for breath -- extended her hand to him , with a smile of unutterable thankfulness . 
Farewell -- farewell , Edward ! 
He dropped upon his knees -- he pressed his lips to her hand -- not , oh no ! 
Soon after this , Molton opened the door , and came out , and passed us , without appearing to see us -- the same imperturbable solemnity in his face -- the same regal carriage and movement of body . 
It must be Molton -- it is . 
Does she not know who his half sisteris ? 
-- and that he is , really and truly , the murderer of William ? 
Let it have been done fairly , still it was murder in this terrible Molton ; for William was a child , a mere child to him . 
He could not have injured a hair of Molton 's head . 
Then why did he slay him ? 
it may be , that I have thought too well of Molton . 
shall I doubt Molton now , merely because I think Juliet loves him , when I have withstood all else ? 
Can it be possible that Juliet loved Molton ? 
Did he love her?if so , how couldhe have loved another ? 
-- he could not . 
He never loved her , then . 
Can she have loved him ? 
She knows that Helen is with him -- I am sure of it . 
But Molton -- the remorseless villain ; O , beware of him . 
I am troubled , almost to suffocation and blindness , at the thought of him . 
But , let me return , for a moment , to Molton . 
If the stories be , as I have no reason to doubt that they are , irue , they , alone , will be sufficient to establish the deliberate and settled wickedness of Molton 's character . 
Let him reconcile them , if he can , to aught that is less than devilish . 
I believe it ; and , the only anxiety I have , now , is , to discover my anonymous correspondent , and ascertain in what country Molton was born . 
I used to think him an American ; but I have many reasons to doubt that , of late . 
But , whoever it be , that gives me the information , that I now have , there can be no doubt of his sincerity and truth , for I hold his address , under seal , with permission to open it , whenever Molton can be fairly confronted with his accusers . 
When a mere boy , he was surprised , at noon day , attempting to enter a lady 's bed chamber . 
She was much older than Molton , and knew so little of him , that she was willing to believe , whatever he would say , in palliation of his audacity . 
He told some story , I know not what , to a friend of her 's , and she affected to believe him ; but , it was only affectation . 
Her blood will run cold , to this hour , at the mention of his name . 
He was deeply indebted to a family , every member of which , had loved him , almost to veneration ; and trusted to him , when he was friendless and alone . 
Cousin , forgive me -- the subject is one , that will always carry me away with it ; and I have touched on it now , that you may not be astonished at my using the freedom that I do , with a man , in communicating certain affairs , that relate to the arch imposter , Molton . 
I was proceeding to mention his unspeakble wickedness toward that child . 
She was the pride and darling of the family , to whom he was so deeply indebted ; -- and the chief sustenance of a widowed mother . 
Molton used all his power to corrupt that child , even in her blossom ; -- persevered for years , and finally went so far as to enter her room at night . 
The poor little creature was terrified almost out of her senses -- shrieked ; and , in her terrour , had so little suspicion of the truth , that when she encountered Molton , as she opened the door , she threw herself into hisarms , for preservation . 
-- what was his heart made of , that it did ` nt stop forever on the spot ! 
And such was hishardihood , that he spoke of the whole adventure , as of a dream ; -- and with such an air of innocence , that he was never asked to explain , why hisdoor was left open , that night ; -- for he slept in a room near the child ; and a servant , in passing by it , had observed her light flash in upon the opposite wall of his chamber ; stopped , and found Molton 's door ajar . 
He met with a school girl of high enthusiasm , and promise . 
He was kind and friendly to her , speaking freely to her , of her inadvertencies , more like a brother , than aughte else ; -- and this , it would appear , is a common artifice of his ; for , to such perfection has he carried it , that , while he censures and chides , there is a deep flattery in his manner , which he insinuates , like a poison , into the heart that listens to him . 
All speak of this -- and all wonder how it happens , that they , who are rebuked by Molton , often feel proud of it , and colour with a pleasurable agitation . 
It matters little what Molton may say about all this ; -- his word will not weigh with me . 
There is a deliberate baseness , -- an essential , constitutional wickedness in his character , that would neutralize the fairest appearances , the most plausible tale in his favour , were he not , what I am assured that he has been , the greatest liar in the world . 
It is said , to be sure , that he is now as remarkable for his scrupulous regard to truth ; -- but I do not believe it . 
Keep me informed of Frank -- and BEWARE OF MOLTON . 
There was your favorite Omar , this evening , on one side of her , with his mouth open ; and that precious devil , Molton -- Lord , I ca n't help laughing now -- to see one of those chalk-faced puppets , in such a taking , with a fellow , that has debauched more women , than any other man of his age , in America . 
I am afraid of him , now ; for he knows , by some means or other , that it was by my management , that Molton was twice admitted . 
I 've seen it up once , only once ; -- her eyes flashed fire , and Molton stood quaking before her , as if blasted to the very heart , by the brightness that issued from her . 
He still thinks of Juliet ; and you know that , but for Molton , she would probably have given herself up to him . 
I am his confidant ; and if we can compel Juliet to marry him , what harm will be done ? 
I have just returned from Molton 's , and we have agreed upon a time , when he will be as little occupied as possible . 
She was wasted away , almost to death ; and , when I entered , she started , as if the tread were hostile ; nay , during the whole of my visit , for I desired much to see Molton , unsocial as he is -- and was not deterred , until she went herself , to get permission , and returned with a promise from him , to see me in the evening -- her eyes were glancing , vividly , and continually , toward the door , the court-yard , and the high road , as if something evil were at hand . 
-- The moment that I have done with Molton , I shall write you the particulars . 
I mention this because , lately when I received an anonymous note -LRB- relating to Molton , -RRB- his pleasant eyes grew serious , and he remarked , with some little petulance , that I seemed to be rather too full of negotiation . 
I have been away ever since the night when I saw Molton ; and I have just left him again , having heard the rest of his story . 
You say , if I remember right , that his first offence was -- stay , I will refer to the letter itself ; lay it open before me , and answer it , in my usual way , line by line . 
I have lost your letters , -- or , what is worse , left them in Molton 's study . 
What if he should see them ! 
Molton had followed me out , it appears : and there lay the letters , folded , one within the other , just as I left them , on the table . 
It did not sound like his ; nor had I ever heard aught that resembled it , from Molton . 
`` Mr. Omar , '' said he -- -LRB- at the sound of his voice then ; I recovered instantly from my consternation . -RRB- 
He took no notice of my surprise ; and I began to doubt if my ears had not deceived me . 
Nay -- I was on the point of striking him . 
I raised my arm , -- but he struck it down , lifeless , at my side . 
`` Boy , '' said he , `` sit down . 
And I sat before him , like something helpless , and at his mercy . 
`` You didfalter , '' rejoined Molton . 
`` Not entirely , you should say , '' he replied ; `` but , to a certain degree , you must believe it , or you would repel the whole , at once , with indignation . 
`` I can hardly tell you , '' said he , after a pause . 
There , Sarah , I think that I have given you a fair sample of Molton 's manner , when he trifles , with that air of earnest pleasantry , for which he is so remarkable ; and , now , I will attempt to repeat the remainder of our conversation . 
After a few moments , he turned toward me , again ; and addressed me , as nearly as I can recollect , in the very words following . 
I denounced Edward Molton , with my own mouth . 
`` No , Molton -- I will not leave you -- I -- '' He sprang from his chair ; -- he seized my hands ; -- he almost embraced me ; -- nay , I could swear that there were tears in his eyes . 
Cousin , -- if ever there was a man on this earth , supremely wretched , that man is Edward Molton . 
No matter whence it arises -- I care not -- I ask not -- it is our duty to pity him , and pray for him . 
He resumed , as follows -- with a tone and manner , of such perfect unconcern , that one would have thought that nothing had happened , or that hehad no interest , whatever , in the matter . 
-- I have discovered the cause of Molton 's horrour . 
O , Molton -- ! 
I think , as Molton does , that she will come to her senses -- that she will repent of having written that letter . 
I observe some pencil notes , in the handwriting of Molton ; but I have no time to read them . 
Molton has just sent me a letter . 
What does he mean ? 
If my brother have any blood left , he will return , and bring himto an account . 
Go where I will , I hear something of Molton . 
A gentleman boards here , who knew him in Philadelphia . 
He says that Molton courteda girl for several years , there ; then persuaded a friend to take her off his hands ; -- that the friend discovered something , just at the critical moment of marriage ; -- that the affair was broken off ; -- the girl fell sick , and Molton , himself , went into the country with her , and his friendleft the city : -- that Molton renewed his addresses ; -- introduced another man to her ; -- affected to quarrel with her ; -- was turned out of the house by her father ; -- that she married the man that Molton introduced and died in childbed a few months afterward . 
Mr. Edward Molton , I know you . 
Molton ! 
Molton ! 
I know not what he has done -- what said -- but I saw Molton 's eyes , when he gave our servant the letter ; -- and I know him . 
Do n't let Molton meet him there . 
There is no help for him , if they encounter . 
-- What has he done ? 
-- not insulted him ? 
-- that he could bear . 
What has he imagined ? 
-- nought of dishonour to him ? 
-- for that he would smile at . 
There is more meaning in Molton 's offer than you have been aware of . 
You have fallen into the pit that he dug for you . 
What is the conspiracy that he alludes to ? 
But , as you value me -- as you value Juliet -- O , avoid Molton . 
Your reply -- I know not what it was -- but it has parched his heart up . 
He has devoted you . 
`` Much as I hate thee , Sarah , '' said she to me , `` I would not have Molton hear that , for the wide world . 
He never was braved with impunity . 
Give thatto Molton , if you ever meet . 
I am assured of the power ; -- it is a charm , a spell , a talisman , before which , his arm will fall lifeless . 
But carry it forever about you ; -- let nothing tempt you to lay it aside ; -- for he may fall upon you in the darkness and solitude -- he may -- -LRB- of that I am assured . -RRB- 
I have Molton 's whole life before me . 
I will -- if it be only to detect all the villany of Molton . 
-- Shall you renew your intimacy with Molton ? 
But if you do , hunt him out of his labyrinth . 
I already tremble ; and , above all , I would have you ascertain if Molton be married . 
The life of Edward Molton has been an uninterrupted tissue of acts like the following . 
I make no apology for communicating them , after what I know of him , and , of Miss Gracie . 
Be it your business to communicate to her , so much of the whole , as will counteract the poison , that he has infused . 
I say nothing of Molton 's talent . 
I only say that there is but one way of restoring that heart to soundness , upon which he has once breathed . 
Beware of him . 
He is charged with many terrible crimes ; -- with seduction ; -- adultery ; -- murder . 
Confront him with them . 
Will he deny them ? 
No -- but perhaps he will obtain your ear . 
If he do -- I know him -- he will prevail . 
Edward Molton , at an early age , manifested the most depraved inclinations . 
Before twelve , he was a confirmed liar ; drank to excess ; and stole whatever he could lay his hands on . 
He lived in solitude . 
He was the chief pest of his family , and the bye-word of the town . 
Among the transgressions of his youth , I can recollect several , such as the following . 
He has deliberately insulted a lady , at a large dinner table , in two instances , with an abrupt and brutal cruelty , that can only be palliated by supposing him ignorant of the commonest courtesies of life . 
Nay , he has presented a book , to one of the most accomplished and fascinating women , in our country , after violating the decorum of a family , by lending it to a youthful and superiour girl , who returned it , with this cutting remark . 
After a rude and shameful outrage too , upon a young girl , a sort of apprentice where he once lived , in which the consummation of his design was only prevented by his inebriety , and the interference of the lady , to whose government the girl was subject , he was a second time so forgetful of all that gives dignity to a man , that it was only by main force , that she escaped from his room , into which she had been beguiled . 
She affronted Molton , and he determined to be revenged . 
He pursued her to her father 's ; and while the man , that was with him , sat down with a small company at cards , he employed himself in the work of ruin . 
Not a quarter of an hour had passed , before Molton was surprised by the father himself , in an unoccupied room , with his daughter . 
He met with a woman , whom he had once loved , after her marriage with another , at noonday , by a formal assignation ; and the story is , that they were both inconceivably distressed . 
Nay , he once visited the wife of another man , in the absence of her husband ; and who , he had every reason to believe , loved him , at night ; and she was known to arise from her bed , and receive him . 
Molton counselled her against the falsehood and subtlety of man ; and , when he had won her whole confidence , would , perhaps , have destroyed her , himself ; -- but she fled , and is safe . 
It is said , that he ran away , some time ago , with a sweet girl , from a nunnery , in Canada ; was pursued , and shot , by the brother , on the way to New-York , where he fled , like a dastard . 
My last advice is -- Beware of Molton ; -- and watch over Juliet . 
I was constantly with him , for the first week ; and there came a letter for him , directed to my care , from Molton . 
I thought that his heart would burst , when he read it . 
he cried , tearing it , and trampling on it , like a madman . 
I asked him the cause of his wrath -- he tried to tell me , but he could not -- he was choking ; -- and all that I could understand , was , that he , Molton , had slandered Juliet . 
I shall soon see him , and I sha n't leave him , till I know the truth . 
-- Frank 's baggage is , already , on board the vessel ; or , I really believe , that he would return to see Molton ; -- but , from the look of his eyes , I do n't think that there will be much danger of his wrath cooling in this voyage ; and his honour , I find , is engaged to undertake it . 
I had rather meet Molton , than let Frank meet him ; -- and , unless he play me some trick , which I am half inclined to suspect , from certain mysterious movements this morning , I shall see Molton long before he will . 
I must see him fairly on board ; and then , I will return . 
It may lighten my brother 's heart , to know , that the story which he has heard of Molton 's baseness , toward Marion , M. P. is untrue ; and that , to have felt a regard for him , is not so terrible a reproach , to a modest woman , as he has thought . 
I have made particular inquiries , and have been so fortunate , as to find the very gentleman , at last , who , it was said , came so near being deceived by Molton . 
The facts , as related by him , are these : -- `` Molton never loved her , and never affected to love her : on the contrary , she , herself , has always spoken of him , as having conducted himself in the most honourable manner . 
She was an ambitious , smart , showy woman , and Molton wason intimate terms with her , for years ; -- but , while I knew that he had no intention of marrying her , '' said this gentleman , `` because he , more than once , left off visiting her , on account of such a report , informing herof the reason , at the time -- I knew , also , that their acquaintance was not only perfectly innocent , but discreet . 
Nay , ask Molton himself . 
What he tells you , you may depend upon . 
It is true , that I loved Marion -- devoutly -- to infatuation ; -- and , it is also true , that I became acquainted with her , through the means of Molton ; and that , after we separated , she was seriously ill , and went , for a few days , into the country , accompanied by Molton . 
Here , my knowledge of Marion and him terminated . 
Molton was always too high minded , with all his faults , to deceive a friend , so basely . 
I was his friend ; and he spoke to me of her faults , and virtues , without disguise . 
Nay , he told me all their acquaintance . 
She told me that he had , repeatedly , offered himself to her . 
I doubted this ; -- and , when I told him , he denied it in such a way , and with such evidence , as left me in no kind of doubt . 
I do not believe that she lovedhim ; -- and , I believe , that she would have won him , if she could . 
But her husband was , probably , induced to address her , in consequence of what Molton said to him . 
Nor , is it true , that there was any secret cause , for the interruption of the acquaintance between Molton and the family . 
He is haughty , bitter , and sarcastick ; and , when once provoked , difficult to appease . 
He affronted her , deliberately ; and , as deliberately , repented of it . 
Molton has since been sensible of his unmanly and unworthy conduct ; and , I am sure , if he ever have an opportunity , he will make an atonement proportioned to his transgression . 
But I would pledge my soul , for the innocence of Molton ; -- and he , I am sure , would put his against the man , that would dare to insinuate aught against the purity of his acquaintance with that woman . '' 
Nay , brother , you may depend upon this ; for Molton , himself , has told me , in plain language , the whole extent of her imprudence with him . 
It amounted only to a few tears ; -- but , he declares , that he never even kissed her , in his life ; and I believe him . 
`` No , '' says he , `` she is an innocent and wronged creature , so far as I know anything of her ; and I have been very intimate with her , and for a long time . '' 
It is Molton 's blood . 
He is an adulterer . 
She abandoned her husband -- and fled with Molton . 
Retribution has been done upon him . 
He is dying . 
But let me tell the story calmly -- wait a little while * * * I went at nine o'clock , this morning , to see Molton . 
I did not believe him guilty . 
He had told me a plausible story about Helen ; and I believed it . 
But he never told me -- ah , this blood -- the smell is very offensive -- do you know any thing that will take it out , Sarah ? 
-- He never told me that she was married to another , when he came away ; -- still less , that it was her husband , whom he had slain , upon the beach . 
As I approached the house , I was willing to see if Molton was in his study ; and I went through the wood , therefore , at the back of the house . 
I saw him . 
The servant denied him . 
I turned my horse into the wood , and rode about , determining never to quit him , alive , till he had satisfied me , as to what he had said of Juliet ; what he wrote to Frank ; and what Frank meant , by that mysterious allusion to the death of William . 
I had seen Juliet , several times , while I was waiting to see Molton ; for he had been constantly denied to me , 'till I would bear it no longer . 
Molton was in his dressing gown ; and was paler and thinner , nay , sadder , I thought , than I had ever seen him . 
No -- he was notinnocent , look as he would ! 
I know not what I said ; but he sat , I remember , leaning upon his hand , with his eyes lifted , mournfully and fixedly upon mine ; and the first words that he uttered , in reply , were merely these : and they were very calmly uttered . 
`` Yes , '' I replied , unwrapping them , and offering him one . 
He put it back , gently , and with a smile ; a sickly , wan smile , not so much in derision , the habitual one of hisface , at such moments , as in compassion , or pity . 
He took one ; but , with a carelessness , that looked more as if he wanted to convince me that he was just as little in my power then , as before , than to exchange a shot . 
might I not be permitted to harm him , with a loaded pistol in his hand ? 
Helen appeared , for a moment ; but , rebuked , I suppose , by some gesture of Molton , for no sound escaped him , she vanished again . 
I only remember her , as I do all the rest -- like phantoms , that came and went , in noise and smoke , while the sound of the pistol was still ringing in my ears ; and I knew not that my aim at Molton 's heart had been abandoned . 
Molton 's hand dropped ; -- he fainted : -- but scarcely were his eyes shut , than he opened them again -- and ordered the door to be shut , and locked . 
`` Young men , '' said he , `` hear me . 
-LRB- For I remember that he turned , suddenly , as my horse dashed past him ; and put his hand into his bosom , like one surprised , where he ought not to be . 
Nay , I thought that he looked alarmed -- but I attributed that , afterward , I remember , to my own agitated appearance ; and to the pistols , wrapped in my handkerchief , to be sure , that I carried under my arm . -RRB- 
`` Well , '' continued Molton , `` you may marvel why I have shown such forbearance toward you . 
I heard a strange sound at the moment ; and , as I turned my eyes , I saw Molton plucking his white handkerchief , drenched with blood , from his side . 
It adhered closely , and ripped , as he tore it away ; and he shook a little , as with pain . 
`` I pray you , sir , '' said he , to me , `` if you have any mercy on me , not to permit Helen to enter here , for the present . '' 
There was my brother ; and Molton , with his hand upon his side , leaning against the door frame ; -- his troubled eyes rivetted , with a look of strange inquietude , upon the scene . 
he said , at last , in a voice scarcely louder than a whisper . 
But Helen heard him . 
said she -- rising , and throwing herself upon the bosom of Molton . 
He caught her in his arms . 
I trembled for the consequence ; but the handkerchief clung to the wound , and his gown covered it . 
But he came forward , nevertheless , and was about to lay his hand upon Helen -- when the intrepid , cold eye of Molton lightened outright -- `` By the living God ! '' 
he cried , `` if -- nay , I am too rash , perhaps -- art thou , indeed her father ? 
cried Helen , kneeling , and kissing his feet , while her dark tresses swept over them , in her agony -- `` O , forgive me ! 
Edward . 
He ismy father . '' 
answered Molton -- raising her , and staggering . 
Renounce thy destroyer , forever -- renounce him , there -- there , where thou standest , before these witnesses ; and thy father 's heart is open to thee from this moment ! 
Helen only clung the more vehemently to Molton ; and buried her face the deeper in his bosom . 
`` Do not believe him , Edward -- do not . 
Molton 's countenance , then , was like one falling asleep . 
Death was upon him . 
He gradually sank upon the sofa ; and Helen stood over him , kissing his forehead -- wiping the sweat from his lips -- and answering their occasional movement ; -- for no sound escaped them -- as if sheunderstood it all -- as if her very heart had a language of its own , and kept uttering it , inwardly -- with a continual whisper of `` oh , do not -- do not believe it , Edward ! '' 
But he gained more strength . 
His spirit awoke , for a moment . 
She was putting back his hair . 
said he -- his eyes were rivetted on her with such a look ! 
said Molton . 
Molton turned -- but when he saw his face , weak as he was , he half arose from his seat , with a look of inconceivable horrour and alarm . 
A convulsive motion of the hand followed -- like one grasping a dagger , and ready to give a blow -- and then he smiled -- smiled so beautifully , so like a dying christian -- that I could have fallen down , too , and wept upon his feet , and wiped them with myhair . 
`` Young man , '' he said , `` I am glad of this assurance . 
He proffered his hand , as he said this ; but Orford struck it away , with scorn . 
Molton 's forehead reddened ; a short , but fierce , bright struggle , followed ; and , he then added , in a low , sweet , solemn voice -- `` Men , bear witness for me . 
cried Molton , `` have you no decency ? 
-- '' Instantly , we were surrounded with six or eitht of his young Spanish negroes . 
Throw the first man out of the window , that you see move his arm , '' said he , coldly ; but with the aspect of mortal determination . 
And Molton -- just saying to the blacks , in Spanish , Let them go free -- plucked the handkerchief from the wound , and fell back , saying faintly -- `` Then am I , indeed , O Saviour of men , what I most dreaded -- an adulterer ! '' 
Justly afraid of the consequences , I persuaded Frank and the father to go , till we knew the result ; but the husband would not depart , till the sight of Molton 's shoes , full of blood , made him think , I suppose , that the wound had been given by hishand . 
I took advantage of the thought , and offered him my horse ; and he is gone . 
Yes , he isan adulterer ! 
You did not know of her marriage ; nay , youdid not even know , that he was the suspected one ; -- or that he came in the vessel with her . 
O , he must have known it . 
-- you know him , Sarah -- you have called him a `` consummate actor . '' 
At least , if he be not seriously wounded , it must be . 
Molton has sent for me . 
What , if I have wronged him ? 
And you , Sarah -- but for you , perhaps -- Nay , I can not blame you , for you taught me to avoid him . 
Frank says , that he has been here , for ten days , concealed ; that he saw Molton three days ago , and agreed to meet him , on notice ; that the notice was given him this morning , while I was there , no doubt ; and that he was on the spot -- the study -- preparatory for the evening -- when , hearing my voice , which he did not expect , he stepped into the next room ; that the sound of the pistol , and the shrick , alarmed him ; and he entered , supposing , till now , that I had deliberately shot Molton . 
-- Poor Molton . 
Yes , I must see him . 
Nay , since he finds that , from the first , Molton used no disguise in his name , for he has a letter from him , signed `` Edward Molton , '' he begins to think it possible , that he was deceived ; for Helen had not been married one hour , when she escaped . 
The father prevented the publication ; and , believing Molton 's name fictitious , he never trusted it to any person in America ; but always spoke of his daughter , and pursued her , as unmarried . 
Nay , when the thought came to him , that Molton might be innocent of the greater evil , he actually wept . 
My brother , then , ventured to tell what he knew , and what he had seen . 
If Molton should die , I shall never sleep again . 
Molton 's girl is only his wife . 
Well -- the husband shot Molton -- and MissHelen , `` the wife of two husbands , '' has gone into fits , I take it , according to form ; and the husband has runaway with Mr. John Omar 's beautiful horse ! 
Beside , it is said that they mean to mob Molton . 
-- They 'd better not -- sick or dead , he will give them a hot reception . 
His house is full , from garret to cellar , with black Patagonians , creatures that he has caught somewhere in South America ; they ca n't speak a word of English , and have no other notion of duty , than to do just what he bids them . 
That they would cut any body 's throat at his bidding , there is no doubt ; and how can you punish him , in such a case ? 
Is ` nt he a precious fellow -- that Molton ? 
What a pretty chap for a novel , if he only lived in Italy , or any where but in America , `` the land of the free and the home of the brave '' -- ahem ! 
I have been with Molton every hour , night and day , since you left us . 
He is yet in a very critical way ; but whence , if it be not from the sustaining power of a well governed mind , and a conscience untroubled and unpolluted , can be preserve this great serenity , at such a time ? 
I know not what to think of him . 
I have spoken of his past life ; and he has acknowledged that his conscience is not clear ; that there is a heaviness about his heart , and a darkness upon his understanding , at times , from the recollection of much evil that he hath caused and done . 
Yet , he says , that there is not the weight of one deliberately cruel , or wicked deed , upon his memory . 
It was impossible not to believe him . 
His sins have been those of suddenness , or of mistaken , but generous , imprudence . 
His passions have been tremendous ; -- but they are now , one would believe , utterly subjected to his mastery . 
There was a consultation , last night ; and the result would have been unknown , had not Molton demanded , in a tone of solemn authority , that they should not deceive him . 
said he . 
They refused to declare their opinion ; but entreated him not to disquiet himself . 
He smiled ; and , looking at me , calmly observed , `` you see now the efficacy of that rule . 
-- The elder advanced , and took his hand . 
said he . 
`` Yes , for the worst , '' said Molton . 
Molton 's countenance fell . 
was life appalling to him . 
-- Molton looked him steadily in the face . 
said he . 
It was frightful , and he fainted -- the blood spun out of his breast ; -- his hair was wet and soaked in his own sweat ; yet he never breathed a loud word . 
He is better now . 
He was silent -- I repeated it . 
`` No '' he replied , `` No ! 
-- `` I do not understand the word , '' said he , `` but I am proud , too proud , to flinch -- and , when I reflect on what I must endure , if I recover , I declare to you , that I am more intimidated at the sudden thought of life , than death . 
No -- I should be sorry to die ; but , if I must die , there is no martyr of them all , that ever died , more self collected , passionless and undisturbed , than Edward Molton will . 
and then , his wife -- O Frank ! 
By the way -- I must not forget , that the father is unaccountably kind to Molton , now -- and that his manner toward him , is rather that of one , who has injured another , than been injured by him . 
His look too , is `` more in sorrow , than in anger . '' 
I can not understand it ; yet so it is ; and I have actually caught the old man weeping upon Molton 's hand , with Helen by , her beautiful eyes upturned , in her idolatry to her lord 's -- when I entered unexpectedly ; and I have paused -- and wished that I had put off my shoes -- for the ground that I trod upon , I felt , washoly . 
there are strange sounds at midnight ; -- it is near the time now -- I wonder if Edward hears them . 
He betrays nothing by his words ; but his hand has grown mortally cold ; nay , his whole arm , as it embraced me ; and the thick , icy sweat has started out , all at once , from his forehead , as it lay upon my cheek -- I have observed it . 
He thought me asleep -- a cold tremour went over him -- and he drew me closer to his bosom , like one that will not relinquish what it most loves , though he besupernaturally required . 
It is wiser -- for , if Molton die -- lo ! 
What you have told me of Molton amazes me ; but , I am most concerned , and most cruelly sensible and interested , in what relates to Mr. Grenville and Juliet . 
She will never marry , without a disclosure of her heart , and its whole history ; and God help the man that consents to occupy a tenement , that is haunted by Molton . 
I know not who he is -- I know not what are his powers . 
He appears to be , only a plain , positive man -- very direct , and energetick ; but , he has the mysterious faculty of consecrating to himself , and forever , whatever he touches , even in his wantonness . 
But , if Mr. Grenville have the courage , for she will never deceive him , to run the risk of having his repose darkened , and his temples bleached , by the presence of Molton 's spirit -- let him , in heaven 's name ! 
The woman will deceive herself -- Molton will abide there , and he will know it . 
Her memory will be his -- her thought his -- her tears , even in the arms of her husband , his -- and his alone , forever , and forever ! 
Molton is gradually recovering from the wound ; but there is some incurable disease , of which his physicians are forbidden to speak , that will inevitably carry him to his grave . 
But this I know , that the oldest and wisest of his physicians , when he spoke of Molton , to me , but the other day , spoke of him with feeling and affection ; and , when I alluded to this hidden disease , -- his face altered amazingly -- a strange expression , compounded of horrour and doubt , it appeared to me , passed athwart it . 
I pursued my inquiries ; but he looked at me kindly , shook his head , and departed . 
I assailed the other two , in succession ; but with precisely the same success , except that the younger , a free hearted , noble fellow , about my own age , added , as he left me , these words -- `` Edward Molton is no common man . '' 
How do I stand toward Molton ? 
Simply and truly thus -- I love him , I respect him , more than I ever believed that I could love and respect any man but you , Frank . 
Last night was the first , in which I have been permitted to sleep soundly ; and I shall spend the morning , until service , in relating a narrative that Molton has made to me , concerning certain stories , in which we are deeply concerned . 
Yesterday , as we sat together ; -- he , leaning upon the shoulder of Helen , he renewed the subject of certain stories ; and went deliberately through them , one by one , with the solemnity of a dying man , who would be at peace with all the world . 
`` O yes -- in private life ; '' -- certainly , Mr. a -- a -- Molton -- in private life . '' 
Molton -- is ` nt that poetry ? '' 
-- I was to go to a ball this evening , dear Frank , but I am weary of dancing , and glad of an opportunity to renew the narrative of Molton . 
-- He proceeded as follows . 
-- `` Why Lucy , '' said he , `` thy wits must be wool-gathering . 
* * * * The next , in order , my dear brother , is the following : I have once ventured to ask Molton the name of the woman ; -- but he silenced me , forever . 
What think you of Molton , now ? 
-- and Edward Molton was the murderer . 
I went to Molton 's . 
It was moonlight . 
He proposed a walk ; -- and the temperature of the evening was so soft and pleasant , that his physician consented ; and we wandered together for more than two hours . 
I never heard Molton 's true voice before . 
I never before saw him in such a temper . 
The wind rose ; and , at last , Molton himself confessed , that he knew not where we were -- at this moment . 
We entered , and were advancing with outstretched hands , when Molton suddenly caught my arm . 
My blood retreated . 
He breathed like one , at his last gasp -- but not a sound escaped from his lips . 
He stopped -- put his hand to his forehead -- and disappeared . 
A moment after , he returned -- he took my hand . 
His own was cold as death . 
He appeared to have made some discovery . 
His track was like an Indian upon the scent of his prey . 
His eyes flashed -- I could see them sparkle , though it was very dark . 
He compelled me to follow him , by main force ; and I did , along by the broken wall -- to a green spot -- where the great oak stands ; -- he paused there , for a moment -- and stood like one , trying to recall some forgotten thing -- but then a sudden recollection seemed to strike him . 
Some sound , I know not what , escaped between his set teeth ; and he dashed through the shrubbery . 
I thought that he was mad , but I followed him -- he struck the doors aside -- one after the other , while he passed on , as with an iron arm ; and he jarred the whole house with his tread . 
`` By the everlasting God ! '' 
-- Never did I see such a countenance as his , when that light struck it . 
said he . 
Molton resumed his incoherent speech ; and , during the whole scene that followed , he never stirred his feet , nor his hands ; but , on he went , on , on forever , like a speaking corpse . 
`` Alone , '' said he , menacing me . 
said he . 
But on second thought , I named the small-sword . 
-- How little this Molton is known ? 
No -- Molton . 
He looked surprised ; and a silence of half a minute followed , as if he were afraid to trust his voice ; at last , he said , more calmly than I could have said it , I am sure -- nay , almost as calmly , I do believe , as Edward Molton would have said it . 
I amher lover . '' 
He turned pale -- and the fire flew out of his eyes . 
I would avoid a quarrel ; -- but my brother is away ; and I -- I , only , am the guardian of a -- a -- , '' my voice trembled . 
`` Young man , '' said he , `` I respect you . '' 
There , my dear Molton , -- that is all that passed at the time that you speak of ; but there was an agitation -- an embarrassment in his manner that , to me , heaven pardon me for the uncharitable thought -- to me , looked suspicious and mysterious . 
I shall persevere ; -- and , I hope , trim my little bark so gallantly that , whether she sink or swim , whether she scud over , or under the water , the people that see her shall cry , well done ! 
Molton is on the track of something . 
I know not what ; but his look is that of a bloodhound . 
You are , probably , astonished at the composure , with which I speak of Molton , after all that has passed ; and Frank , I know , is . 
Not a line , not a single line , from either of my two new brothers , except one , that was almost illegible , from Frank , written in pencil , upon a dirty bit of paper , which I had half a mind to smoke , -LRB- or fumigate , I must say now , I suppose , being at chymistry , -RRB- -- the amount of which scrawl was , that he was on the deck of the vessel -- the pilot just ready to depart -- no time to say good bye to anybody -- still less to write ; -- that you were `` worse off , '' than ever , with Molton -- a phrase which I take to mean , that you were on a footing of greater intimacy , than ever , with him ; -- and that he hoped all would go well with you , yet . 
In short , there is `` a bright blue , rippling glitter , '' -LRB- as Milman has it , when speaking of heavenly armour , -RRB- continually issuing from under his droll-looking eye-lashes , when he is much excited . 
Do n't tell Juliet this ; or , if you do , please to add the antidote ; -- he has an ugly profile , and a sad pale face ; and -- and , I do not think him exactly the most fashionable young man in the world . 
-- That man , that bad man -- he , whom I never meant to name again -- Molton , has been with us . 
When I entered the room , he stood fronting the door . 
-LRB- It was said with emphasis ; and , coming from Edward Molton , I confess that it did my heart good . -RRB- 
Farewell . '' 
He passed my husband , who shook him cordially , very cordially by the hand ; -- and as he passed me -- what could I do-it was probably the last time-we had never parted before , even in our anger , without it . 
I put mine into his . 
He appeared surprised -- touched -- and he relinquished it , very gently . 
His letter was very brief ; it merely informed me that Molton had sent for him , in a great hurry , to see poor Jane , who was alarmingly ill . 
From that moment , I was the happiest woman in the world ; -- but , judge of my consternation , my horrour and dismay , when he put the following letter , from Molton , into my hand . 
The letters were a pretended correspondence , between Molton and myself , of a nature , so artfully managed , by mingling fact with falsehood , that they went through my heart , sometimes ; and I trembled like a guilty woman , to see how capable my conduct has been , of the cruelest interpretation . 
I saw that they were managed to prove an intrigue -- a shameful , dishonourable , criminal intrigue -- between Molton and myself . 
The first was directed to me , and was in the hand writing of Molton . 
I was glad to hear this , I confess ; for even now , I can not bear to think meanly of Edward -- Molton , I should say -- Mr. Molton . 
The first person that I saw , was Molton -- sitting by her bed side ; immoveable ; and , with a countenance of one death-struck , holding one hand upon her temples , and supporting his own forehead with the other . 
Her vivid eyes were lifted now and then , to his , with an expression of tenderness , passionate tenderness , so unlike aught that I had ever seen in them before , that I could scarcely believe her to be Jane . 
It was a comfort to her , to have him near her -- that , I could see distinctly -- though his face was the face of a Destroyer ; of one , that nothing , no weeping , nor prayer , nor terrour , nor trial , may move , -- unrelenting , stedfast and inexorable . 
I listened ; but I could not hear him breathe . 
I approached ; and , as he turned to me , he moved his hand -- and she caught it , as it passed her lips -- and pressed it to them , again and again -- with a low , sobbing , inarticulate sound of transport -- `` O , do not leave me , Molton ; do not take it away ! '' 
But he gave me his hand , hot and moist , from the pressure of her mouth , nevertheless . 
-- said Molton -- in a low whisper ; and , as he spoke , her hand dropped from his -- and her jaw fell . 
I was about to be left alone , immediately , with Molton , and the body ; but he arose , and put himself between one of the women , and the hall , just as she was shutting the door . 
said he . 
She shook in every joint ; and , when he led her to the bed , the sweat started out upon her quivering lips ; and her eyes looked as if she were about to be immolated on the spot . 
said he -- turning down the clothes and revealing the body of Jane -- `` woman ! 
There was a deep ruffle about the neck of Jane , which , from its singularity , I had before observed . 
He was about removing it , when Matilda arrested his hand with a loud shriek . 
And pushed away his hand -- but , not till I had seen -- O , Sarah ! 
I only know that , when I spoke of it to Molton , he shuddered , locked his hands -- and his eyes rolled inward , as if to contemplate something that no other man would dare to look upon . 
She was sorry , and very penitent , before her death , for all that she had done to Juliet ; retracted a long and grievous fabrication about her ; and signed it with her own blood -- and , finally , forgave Molton , and blessed him -- for what ? 
Whence had he that power over her ? 
By the way , that man , of whom I once heard you speak , in a manner that disturbed me exceedingly , was named Molton , was it not ? 
Do you know his first name ? 
Was it Edward ? 
If it was , I anticipate your pleasure in receiving the hymn , on the opposite page ; for that was written by a man named Edward Molton , some time ago . 
I have heard a good deal of him here ; and not a little that would have alarmed me once , although I remember that your eyes flashed fire , when you spoke of him ; and your lip writhed with bitterness and scorn -- and hatred -- and terrourtoo , I thought . 
Have you not loved Molton ? 
You have -- I am sure of it . 
If so , I shall probably meet with him ; and , if there be such a man upon this earth , it shall be my business to become acquainted with him -- though you and I , Miss Ramsay , should never meet again . 
Molton . 
I am told that he wrote a good deal , in his early days ; and then , deliberately abandoned it ; and that this , with one or two other little pieces that I have , were the last of his productions . 
-- Nay , I am willing to own that I shall keep it , and that it will be dear to me , while I live , as something that reminds me of an escape , little less than miraculous ; -- but most of all , to command you -- nay , to entreat of you -- never to mention Edward Molton to me again -- and never , if by any chance you should come in his way , never , if you have any respect , or any compassion for me , neverto mention me to him . 
Molton has been confined for some time ; I have seen him occasionally ; but , it is only within a few days that he has been out ; and with whom , think you , he was first seen ? 
-- The whole town are talking of it ; and when I saw him , this morning , shake Molton 's hand , with all his heart and soul ; and then take the hands of his own wife , before me , and place them in Molton 's -- and say , as he did , with a deep , broken , agitated voice -- `` my friend ! 
Juliet was unable to support it -- the tears filled her eyes -- and she would have fallen , had not Molton caught her ; but , she shuddered at his touch , and immediately turned to me -- heaven bless her ! 
Molton smiled , haughtily ; and , the next moment , we were on our way home . 
Not a word was spoken -- and we left Juliet at the door . 
There was something in his tone , or manner , that affected her ; for I felt her hand tremble , and she pressed mine , convulsively . 
She looked at him -- her lips moved -- she inclined her head -- but , she was unable to utter a word . 
His countenance fell ; and he promised to call on her , tomorrow , with me . 
This was said , with a deliberate emphasis , as if to assure her , that he should not visit her alone . 
He then took a packet out of his bosom , directed to her , in the hand writing of her husband -- with a note to this effect : `` This is only to be opened , on the occurrence of one event -- Mr. Molton will apprise my dear Juliet , what that event is . '' 
Poor Juliet trembled , from head to foot ; and Molton and I walked home to his house , where I was instantly struck , with the altered and strange appearance of Helen . 
Molton and I had then a long conversation together , on a variety of matters ; such as religion , character , & c. & c. -- and I discovered a new trait in his , which I never saw before -- great vehemence in argument -- and surpassing subtilty . 
The conversation was long ; and would have been uninteresting to any one , who did not participate in it ; but , nevertheless , as I have not written to you , for many a day , and as I am upon my favourite theme , Edward Molton , I will try to repeat some of his whimsical opinions , as nearly in his own manner and words , as possible . 
We spoke of pronunciation . 
I charged him with sophistry . 
`` No '' -- said he -- `` I am no longer a sophist . 
`` Always , '' he replied . 
-LRB- He had been quite delirious , poor fellow , for nearly a month -RRB- -- `` Well , the pain is over now . 
`` God does not threaten , '' says he , `` that man may sin , and so , be punished : But -- that he may notsin , and so escape . 
I understood nothing of logick , '' continued Molton . 
I laughed heartily -- and who , that had never heard it before , would not have laughed ; but not a muscle of his face stirred -- not a limb shook . 
`` Thatgave the first impulse to my character , '' said he . 
Molton has some feeling of humanity . 
I have set by her , and watched the changes of her countenance -- as she leaned forward , and gazed upon Molton , holding his hands to her heart , while he slept , as a mother would watch the troubled sleep of her babe , trembling and breathless -- till I have thought herthe most affectionate and attractive of human beings . 
And when I last saw her -- there was a sudden movement of her countenance , which terrified me , as Molton , in stooping for a book that had fallen -- stopped for a moment , as if a serpent had seized upon his vitals . 
She turned deadly pale -- and pressed her lips to his hand with such distracting tenderness , that it startled me . 
I know not -- but her manner then , and her wild delirious rapture ; -LRB- for she stood up like something heavenly , in a trance of gratitude , when he slowly lifted himself up , and smiled , and kissed her forehead , -RRB- set my heart a throbbing very strangely . 
Frank has just written that Grenville has ordered me to meet him , with Juliet , at Charleston -- me , you observe , not Molton . 
-- more discretion I hope . 
Juliet has received a letter from Grenville ; and she has sent for Molton , who is to come this afternoon . 
What think you -- would he dare to meet me ? 
But , you do not know him ? 
Hitherto , I have been unable to write his name , such has been my scorn of him . 
I want to tell you about this Molton . 
I have seen him . 
I could ` nt resist the impulse ; and , before he rang , I placed myself in the middle of the front parlour , with the windows darkened , and the door ajar -- so that I could see him , when he entered the hall . 
His step was firm , and haughty I thought , -- but he wore a large blue cloak ; and I could not get a good view of his face or person . 
He was with Juliet for about half an hour ; and , when I entered , I found her in tears , I told her that I had seen him . 
I am sorry for it , said she , for he knows your opinion of him ; and his countenance looked troubled , while he was here . 
Nay -- he confessed that he expected you to enter the room . 
It was well that you did not , I believe ; for , I thought that I heard you step -- and never shall I forget his countenance . 
You paused . 
He threw off his cloak -- and turned deliberately toward it , like one that was preparing for some fearful act of retribution . 
You have wronged him , Sarah ; but I would not put myself in his way , if I were you . 
I shall depart tomorrow ; and , if it be possible , I will see Molton , face to face , before I depart . 
Molton is at her bed-side , night and day . 
I can not get an opportunity to speak to him . 
-- it can not live -- it can not ; and there is Molton , there ! 
-- I can see him at this moment . 
I know not how the intelligence came ; but Juliet was breakfasting ; and had taken up a newspaper , from many that lay upon the table , with the letters of the day ; when Molton broke suddenly into the room , pale , frightfully pale -- it was too late -- the very paper was already in her hand ! 
Molton was distracted . 
I arrived , and found him walking the floor ; the sweat trickling down his cheeks ; and his eyes red , as with a scorching fire . 
His hands were clenched , and black with the convulsion of the pressure . 
He attempted to speak -- he could not -- the blood stood upon his lips -- he offered me his hand -- it was the hand of a dead man -- cramped with cold , like iron . 
`` What has happened , '' cried I -- `` tell me , what has happened ? '' 
Molton is watching by her , like a brother : -- there he sits , in the next room -- motionless -- alone -- dark -- and like one who hath no heart left -- and will not be comforted . 
Not a sound escapes him . 
-- I saw that -- I was sure of it -- again and again , she tried it , as Molton knelt by her bed side ; and she clung about his neck , and wept and wept , as the hour drew nearer . 
-- Omar -- there are serpents feeding there -- I -- I -- '' and twice he put his hand upon her mouth , and shook from head to foot . 
`` No , '' said Molton -- `` No , love ; let it die with thee , thou cruel woman ! '' 
she echoed , -- `` cruel , Edward , when I am dying to make thee happy , -- O Juliet , Juliet , be thou but as true to him -- as -- '' `` Hush ! 
for mercy 's sake , love , '' -- whispered Molton . 
`` You have been the friend , almost the only friend of an injured man -- I -- '' Molton would have stopped her , but she was resolute . 
`` Molton ! '' 
-- thee , Molton a self murderer ! 
No , Edward , no ! 
Molton , himself , looked upon her , wondering . 
`` To reveal one fact to a man , Molton , who will do thee justice , when I am where -- Edward , I tremble -- put thy arm under my head , love -- higher , a little higher -- it is awful to die , dear , -- let me lean upon thy shoulder -- there , there ! 
Nay , do not look darkly upon me , donot ; Edward -- I can not bear it -- our time , together , is counted to us ; and it were a pity to let it go by unkindly . 
The last favour that I ask , is this -- that I may tell one thing , before thee ; before him , before my God , while I have life enough left . '' 
said Molton firmly -- putting his hand to his side -- She saw him put it there ; and it seemed to pain her -- for she shut her eyes ; and there was a tremulous movement of his forehead -- a dark tumult over it , that alarmed me -- `` No!Helen , I command thee to silence , by our love -- our passionate love . 
-- she cried , eagerly interrupting him -- `` why ? 
-- to prove that thou art a god , Edward ! 
It is told -- -LRB- his head fell upon her bosom -RRB- O , do not groan so heavily -- tears too ! 
-- Edward Molton ! 
`` No -- it is only sweat , '' said Molton , faintly -- wiping his forehead , `` I am very weak , and my hair is wringing wet . 
`` Thatis already told , '' she answered , laying her hand so tenderly upon his bosom , that the tears gushed , all at once , from his eyes . 
Here the Doctor entered -- but the sentence of death was written upon his features . 
She asked if I knew the circumstances , under which she had married Molton , -- I told her that I did not ; and then she related them . 
`` Edward , '' said she , as she concluded -- and her voice was so sweet and melodious , coming , it did seem , from the very innermost place of her whole heart , that I feel it yet , like the sound of a blessing in my ears -- `` Edward -- those gashes -- the places where the iron bad worn into my wrist -- the blood -- all -- all -- look at me -- prepare thyself -- brace up all thy noble nature , love -- It will try thee , Edward -- loins and brain -- more than death -- art thou prepared ? '' 
I attempted to raise Molton 's head . 
Nay -- let him sleep -- do not move his hands -- let him lie as he is , and he will be spared the pain of parting with me -- O , how he hath loved that woman ! 
-- if she love him as I have loved him , -- he will be to her , what he has been to me -- all that woman may love ; all that she ought to love . 
Hush ! 
he moves -- come nearer -- he is dying -- he can not live long . 
Would that the poison which is burning herenow , were doubled , trebled , so that what this hand once ministered to him , in its madness ; the madness of jealousy , were withdrawn from his vitals -- O , how gladly would I die , over and over again . 
Her husband -- O , -- it is well for her -- for him -- for Molton -- that he -- went as he did -- farewell ! 
-- receive my -- Edward , dear -- thy lips -- Ed -- I was alone -- I know not how long . 
-- madall this time ; and that I knew it not -- and Molton ? 
-- Did he ? 
It may be that he did . 
-- And can it be true , that she had poisoned him for jealousy -- of whom -- of Juliet herself ? 
-- this , then , was the secret , the tremendous secret , that fed upon the life of Molton . 
How like a dream it all appears -- the pain in his side -- the mortal terrour -- are all clear now . 
the same spirit of madness -- jealousy -- Hearing , as she did of Grenville 's death , she has chosen to set Molton free ! 
Yes -- I do forgive him . 
Now tell me his name , and where I can find him . 
It were a pity that he should not know , that I forgive him . 
We might meet else , by chance ; and he might think it a secret for me ; or that I were a dastard . 
She is blamed for her intimacy with this Molton ; and yet , it is said , and believed , that Mr. Grenville expressly put her into his hands ; when he departed . 
She is constantly asking for you -- and some times , when her brain turns , and the wintry blue of her touched eyes will seem dissolving over her dear little boy -- she raves of Sarah , and Edward , and her husband -- till we are obliged to obey Molton , and all of us abandon her to the women . 
Molton too -- no , I can not bring myself to speak of him -- I love him -- wonder at him , but there is , I know not what , of awe and terrour about my thought , of late , as if he were something supernatural , which prevents me from approaching him , as I used to . 
Sorrow like his , too , is holy : -- a little indiscretion may be pardoned to such a man -- but to be the onlyfriend , the onlyassured and trusted one , of a woman , upon her death bed , whose husband has just been hewed , limb from limb , upon the water -- O , Sarah -- I can not proceed . 
-- Molton . 
Molton . 
-- ask Molton . 
The thought is horrible . 
He is innocent , no doubt -- but will Juliet dare to marry him , where there is such room for calumny ? 
Molton ! 
Molton ! 
-- The blood of Grenville and Molton , would war together to fratricide . 
Beside , it is found , that not one of the four men that Molton furnished Grenville with , is alive ; they were made minced meat of . 
-- I believe it -- for I would not imaginefor a moment , that Molton had put a guard upon Grenville -- to -- . 
Molton knew their temper , and told me himself , that , though they would die for him , at a word -- nay , cut each others throats , at his bidding , -- yet , that they would whip a knife into the heart of any human being but himself , who happened to thwart them , for a moment , in the publick highway . 
He was careful to keep them unarmed -- and at home -- till he let Grenville have them . 
I went , earlier , I believe , than I was expected -- I trod on tip-toe , over the carpet , in the hall ; -- and had entered the room ; for the door stood open , without being perceived -- Juliet was reaching a folded paper to Molton , who sat by her , speechless , and silent as death ; with his hands covering his face -- and grasping his temples . 
`` Is that true , Edward ? '' 
said she , faintly , laying her hand upon his . 
He trembled -- he turned toward her -- relinquished her hand , gently , and answered , in a deep voice . 
I attempted to retreat -- but , he saw me , and his eyes flashed fire . 
`` Omar , is it you ? '' 
Edward , let us be together , a while ... only for a moment ... go , Edward . '' 
She reached him her hand -- just lifted it ; and he put his lips to it , as if she were his own wife , or child . 
As soon as we were alone , she requested me to draw up the writing table to her bed side ; and reach her the letter , which Molton had left on the bed . 
But , all my terrour returned , as I saw her exchange a look with Molton ; when the physician , reproving us sharply for our folly and rashness , told her that we had hazarded her life , but that -- he saw much , nevertheless , to encourage him . 
She turned her eyes to Molton , with a smile , and just moved her head . 
He understood it -- for his lips were , instantly , as pale as ashes . 
I thought her mad -- but Molton 's arm was quicker than my thought ; for , the next moment , she was dashed against the wall , and a knife wrenched from her hand -- though she grasped it , like a wild beast , by the blade ; and I heard the sinews grit , as he plucked it through the fingers , severing tendon and bone . 
Molton carried her away , by main force , amid her curses , screams , and the most horrible blasphemy . 
But the sound of Molton 's voice , revived the spark , for a moment . 
She held his hand to her mouth . 
`` Nay , '' said Molton , awaking all at once -- `` even in death , Juliet , art thou so kind to all?What ! 
`` My heart , Edward . '' 
`` No , love , '' said he , `` that must never be -- the only infirmity of thy nature -- that , Juliet , which has cost us all our suffering , is thy too great gentleness to all -- thy too little passionate devotion to one . 
`` Thou art right , very right , Edward , '' said she . 
I am very faint -- very , dear Edward . 
And , therefore , do I tell Edward , as I do , with the voice of a dying woman , that my heart has always been faithful to him ; even while I was most faithful to my poor husband ; and even while I believed that hewas a bad man : -- but , that you may all understand the truth , and remember it , at this eventful moment , I would tell you , further , that , if I should recover -- it is impossible -- I feel that within me , which makes death certain -- his could hand is not to be misunderstood -- it is real , now -- I feel it approaching my heart , while I speak -- but , even if I should recover , we should never be married . 
Both of us have reasons for it -- have we not , Edward ? '' 
He bowed , and covered his face . 
`` The hour is nearer , Edward -- very near , now . 
said she , faintly -- `` in tears , sweet . 
Let his name be thine , Edward . 
Take my babe , Edward -- be a father to it ! '' 
Molton fell upon his knees ; and , for the first time , the tears rolled out of his eyes , quietly , as from any fountain , without that convulsion and labouring of the heart , which was so frightful before . 
Her eyes were lifted -- a sweet smile played upon her mouth as she saw it -- the melody of her voice died away -- she laid one hand upon the dear babe that lay sprawling in her lap -- another upon Molton 's -- as his face was buried in its swaddling clothes -- he caught it -- and the last words that she uttered , were -- `` I do not leave a lock of hair to the man that I love ; but , I leave to thee , my heart and soul , Edward -- my babe ! '' 
Molton actually sobbed -- and there was no voice heard , but the voice of lamentation and wailing , till the bed shook -- and Molton fell backward upon the floor . 
Molton saw this . 
He stood upon his feet -- he tore open his bosom -- he threw himself upon the bed -- he held her cheek to his heart -- her hands ... `` God bless me ! 
How cold thy hand is ! '' 
A long insensibility followed . 
-- a creature that Edward Molton hath loved , to idolatry , -- hath loved , night and day ; dreamed of , even in my arms -- O , it was hard to bear , Juliet -- another would have wept and cursed thee -- but I -- I could not -- there was something consecrate about thee ; -- and when , in his troubled , cold sleep -- he would murmur thy name ; call meJuliet , while his lips grew to mine -- O , there was that horrible pleasure , and delirium in it , that I could not wake him . 
This hand , Juliet -- O , how I should have loved thee , woman , wast thou my sister ; yea , anybody , anybodyof all this earth , except the firstlove of Edward -- thatI can not forgive -- will not -- and yet , I can not hate thee -- for , I have wronged thee . 
-- who furnished herwith facts that maddened thee ; -- facts , that Molton had told me in his sleep . 
But for that , thy indignation at his baseness and treachery -- it was thatwhich drove thee into Grenville 's arms . 
And Grenville too , I could have slain him -- he was in my power ; but I forbore , lest the mighty reward of all my labour ; thy separation , for ever and ever , from Edward , should be nought . 
Yet -- he was weak -- and he had rifled , -- visited -- thatwere enough to deserve his fate -- a heart , where the image of Molton was concealed . 
The pirates were upon him ; -- and his bones were splintered ; and his flesh hacked , till -- even I wept to hear of it . 
I owed some terrible atonement , for all that I had made him suffer -- Molton , I mean -- ah ! 
I owed him some reward for his love and constancy . 
-- Let hiswife follow , and he would be rewarded , I thought . 
Should I let out my heart 's blood at his feet ? 
I wanted to talkwith Molton too , after I should feel my heart on fire ; when it was too late for the aid of man to help me . 
I was broad awake , in an instant -- I caught Edward 's hand -- I wrung it -- O , my God ! 
`` It was death , Edward , '' said I . 
-- `` By a name , proud woman -- that , madas thou act , -LRB- O , Juliet ; he knew not how true were his words , at that moment ! 
But Edward was alive -- and only alive . 
It hath burnt within him , from that hour to this -- and will , to his dying day . 
It was the knowledge of this , that withheld him from thee , Juliet . 
He loved thee , to death and distraction . 
-- It was pity only , and compassion , that led him , in a moment , of romantick delirium , to marry me . 
From that hour , he never knew one of tranquillity . 
He wept of thee -- talked of thee , continually ; of thy innocence and helplessness ; -- but never , when awake ; -- and never had I permitted him to know that I was informed of it . 
He was silent on the subject ; and so was I ; he , from tenderness ; and I , from wounded pride . 
What could he do ? 
He could have set himself free , at any hour he pleased , from me ; for our marriage was illegal : -- but he would not , for he knew that my life was bound up in his love . 
The temptation was terrible . 
I had discovered this -- might not Molton ? 
And , if he did , would he not avail himself of it , to part with me , forever -- and fly to thee ? 
Edward waxed thinner and thinner , every hour ; and , every hour , I felt as if my heart had been thrown into a coil of tangled serpents -- hungry -- and I could fancy that the blood dripped from their jaws , continually , like fire , upon the wound . 
Many times , I was ready to throw myself at the feet of Edward ; and confess the whole . 
O , I knew not that he was already master of it ; and that he forgave me -- the cruellest thing of all ! 
-- I took the remainder of that very poison , which I had given to Edward , three years before . 
That done , I sent for him , and told him all . 
He was frightfully agitated , at first ; but , in a little while -- accursed thought -- it appeared to me , that he was thinking , already , of his reward . 
I could read Juliet , in his very eyes . 
But , witnesses were near ; and I told him , in vengeance , as much as in honesty , that he had been the husband of a mad woman . 
I felt his heart stagger -- and heard the blood rush out of it , as I whispered the truth in his ear . 
-- Them , I have now added , while he and your cousin , are now whispering in the next room ; and my girl is at the door . 
O , how he used to talk of thee in his sleep -- it was hard to bear , Juliet -- but -- but -- I forgive thee -- and bless thee ! 
Much that thou believest real , of the perfidy , cruelty and baseness of Molton , is false ; -- more of it is so discoloured and distorted , that it is no longer the same ; and many times , dear , when thy tears have fallen upon my arm ; and thy bosom hath heaved , unsteadily , all the live long night , when both were pretending to be asleep , have I heard or fancied , that the movement of thy sweet lips , had the sound of Molton in it -- and then , I have been , more than once , on the point of throwing myself upon my knees , and avowing it all -- just as I did to him , immediately after our marriage . 
From that hour , the secret hath been in his keeping . 
And when I am gone , Molton , that inexplicable man , whose worst fault is a bold , hazardous frankness ; and disdain of prejudice , hewill bear this to thee . 
Nay -- he will put it into thy hands to remain , when we part ; with permission to open it , in case of my death -- and under no other condition . 
The man , Molton , has had the presumption to write to me ; and that too , proudly ; as if I were a woman , to be wrought upon , like the infatuated Juliet . 
-- I have received some letters -- some , that , were it any man but Edward Molton , whom they concern , would almost tempt me to believe him innocent . 
I would have you find out Molton , if he be on the face of this earth ; and give him this letter ; and pray him ; entreat of him , to yield up the babe to me . 
Nay , I will permit him to see it , when he pleases -- to share , if he will , in the expenses of its education -- and , when old enough , if it must be , I will relinquish its guardianship , entirely to him . 
By the way , that reminds me of Molton . 
Where is he now ? 
What is he ? 
I shall ask you a good many questions , now , though you will have no opportunity to answer them ; and I knowthat -- merely to kill time -- just as people laugh out , when they are just ready to cry -- or whistle , for want of thought -- or sing when they are frightened -- or -- But let us return to Molton . 
I heard a pleasant thing of him the other day . 
He has made poetry , I am told ; and he affects to resemble Byron . 
-- and he really has the vanity to imagine , that he has a Greek face ! 
-- Can you imagine anything more ridiculous ? 
A lady that I know , was speaking to him of it . 
`` Yes , '' said he , `` I began to think of a reformation -- and , had the fit continued , there is no knowing how good I might have been . '' 
-- home , home , was ` nt it ? 
But he never suspected the sarcasm . 
What a fool ! 
At the very sound of his name , my veins beat and swell ; and I feel a sense of suffocation and tightness about the heart , quite distressing to a heretick . 
I have half a mind to ride out , and blow it up -- if it be only to keep the chambers of my boyhood , free from the pollution of Molton 's foot . 
Thus I remember more of my mathematicks , where I have been confoundedly puzzled , and provoked , or flogged -- than where I have gone on smoothly -- and thus too , that Molton haunts me , with a vividness and distraction , at times , that wo n't let me sleep . 
I have thought , sometimes , that he must have some heroick qualities : -- but your preposterous admiration and enthusiasm ; that blind and drunken infatuation of yours , have always prevented me from acknowledging it . 
Molton , I think , knows something of him ; and , if it be true , I would not be in Randolph 's shoes for the whole world . 
It is about fortnight , since I saw Molton . 
He is arrived here , with the intention of going to Liverpool , in the next packet . 
He means to see Sarah , before he goes , in spite of all her prejudices ; which , he says , are unnatural and wicked . 
Nay , he probably meditates a lesson for her ; and I know no man so likely to give it effect . 
I have made him promise to meet me , this evening , at Sarah 's . 
I want to confront him with Randolph . 
There is now only one thing , in Molton 's character , that troubles me . 
It will destroy him , at last -- I am sure it will . 
I reason with him -- but he is so tremendously calm . 
I ask him if he canbelieve in apparitions . 
I repeat the question -- and ask if he be afraidof them . 
No ! 
I believe him ; -- and I wonder at it . 
Edward Molton is in town . 
He will sail for England on the fifteenth ; and , if we may trust to appearances , I do believe that he will never return . 
What do you knowof Edward Molton , cousin , that is wicked , or mean ? 
And shall he not be forgiven ? 
-- he , in whose frame the altercation of his heart and spirit hath been carried on , till he is ready to give up the ghost ? 
Recall all that he has done . 
Discharge your heart of all bitterness toward him ; and consent to shake hands with Edward Molton , once , before his departure , as you would , even with your mortal enemy , upon his death-bed . 
I will not so shock you ; but , it is possible that you may yet owe all , that should be dear to a woman , in this life , to Edward Molton . 
I have reason to believe that Molton is the only man , who can satisfy me . 
I believe that he knows something more of Randolph than you do ; for his forehead darkens , when I mention his name . 
My first intention was to surprise you , by leading Molton upon you , this evening , unexpectedly ; and setting him , face to face , with Randolph : -- my next , to give you a moment for preparation . 
If you do not permit me to confront Randolph with Molton , nothing shall ever convince me that it was not because you were afraid . 
Yes , sir -- bring this redoubtable Molton forward . 
`` Then , why is the man Molton summoned hither ? 
-- How knowest thou but he may bear the proof , that I am an unworthy adventurer -- a villain ? '' 
`` Wilt thou believe Molton , if he should say , that I am a scoundrel ? '' 
`` Not if he sayso . '' 
`` But if he proveit -- what then ? 
`` What mockery is it , then , to confront me with this Molton ! 
Didst thou know Molton so well ? 
Edward Molton , speak . 
-- It is Edward Molton ! 
-- '' She opened her bright eyes -- put forth her emaciated , trembling , thin hands -- her lips moved -- her blood shook -- a black , shadowy convulsion followed -- a sob or two -- a few tears , a very few , through her shut lids -- she gasped for breath -- sobbed -- smiled -- staggered to the feet -- embraced the knees -- and , while her magnificent black hair fell , in loose and glorious profusion , all about the floor , where heknelt withher ; -- buried her shame and sorrow , for ever and ever , in the bosom of Edward Molton . 
