`` Mr. Jarvis Lorry . '' 
`` Yes , Mr. Lorry . '' 
T. and Co. '' `` I know this messenger , guard , '' said Mr. Lorry , getting down into the road -- assisted from behind more swiftly than politely by the other two passengers , who immediately scrambled into the coach , shut the door , and pulled up the window . 
Mr. Lorry , the passenger , shaking himself out of it , in chains of straw , a tangle of shaggy wrapper , flapping hat , and muddy legs , was rather like a larger sort of dog . 
Completing his resemblance to a man who was sitting for his portrait , Mr. Lorry dropped off asleep . 
The arrival of his breakfast roused him , and he said to the drawer , as he moved his chair to it : `` I wish accommodation prepared for a young lady who may come here at any time to-day . 
She may ask for Mr. Jarvis Lorry , or she may only ask for a gentleman from Tellson 's Bank . 
Rounding his mouth and both his eyes , as he stepped backward from the table , the waiter shifted his napkin from his right arm to his left , dropped into a comfortable attitude , and stood surveying the guest while he ate and drank , as from an observatory or watch-tower . 
When Mr. Lorry had finished his breakfast , he went out for a stroll on the beach . 
As the day declined into the afternoon , and the air , which had been at intervals clear enough to allow the French coast to be seen , became again charged with mist and vapour , Mr. Lorry 's thoughts seemed to cloud too . 
When it was dark , and he sat before the coffee-room fire , awaiting his dinner as he had awaited his breakfast , his mind was busily digging , digging , digging , in the live red coals . 
Mr. Lorry had been idle a long time , and had just poured out his last glassful of wine with as complete an appearance of satisfaction as is ever to be found in an elderly gentleman of a fresh complexion who has got to the end of a bottle , when a rattling of wheels came up the narrow street , and rumbled into the inn-yard . 
The obscurity was so difficult to penetrate that Mr. Lorry , picking his way over the well-worn Turkey carpet , supposed Miss Manette to be , for the moment , in some adjacent room , until , having got past the two tall candles , he saw standing to receive him by the table between them and the fire , a young lady of not more than seventeen , in a riding-cloak , and still holding her straw travelling-hat by its ribbon , in her hand . 
As his eyes rested on a short , slight , pretty figure , a quantity of golden hair , a pair of blue eyes that met his own with an inquiring look , and a forehead with a singular capacity -LRB- remembering how young and smooth it was -RRB- , of lifting and knitting itself into an expression that was not quite one of perplexity , or wonder , or alarm , or merely of a bright fixed attention , though it included all the four expressions -- as his eyes rested on these things , a sudden vivid likeness passed before him , of a child whom he had held in his arms on the passage across that very Channel , one cold time , when the hail drifted heavily and the sea ran high . 
The likeness passed away , say , like a breath along the surface of the gaunt pier-glass behind her , on the frame of which , a hospital procession of negro cupids , several headless and all cripples , were offering black baskets of Dead Sea fruit to black divinities of the feminine gender -- and he made his formal bow to Miss Manette . 
`` I kiss your hand , miss , '' said Mr. Lorry , with the manners of an earlier date , as he made his formal bow again , and took his seat . 
`` -- respecting the small property of my poor father whom I never saw -- so long dead -- '' Mr. Lorry moved in his chair , and cast a troubled look towards the hospital procession of negro cupids . 
She curtseyed to him -LRB- young ladies made curtseys in those days -RRB- , with a pretty desire to convey to him that she felt how much older and wiser he was than she . 
He made her another bow . 
`` I was happy , '' said Mr. Lorry , `` to be entrusted with the charge . 
`` Naturally , '' said Mr. Lorry . 
`` Yes -- I -- '' After a pause , he added , again settling the crisp flaxen wig at the ears : `` It is very difficult to begin . '' 
He did not begin , but , in his indecision , met her glance . 
Mr. Lorry opened his hands , and extended them outward with an argumentative smile . 
He watched her as she mused , and the moment she raised her eyes again , went on : `` In your adopted country , I presume , I can not do better than address you as a young English lady , Miss Manette ? '' 
He seemed wilfully to mistake the word she had repeated , when he added , in a hurry , `` Yes , customers ; in the banking business we usually call our connexion our customers . 
To go on -- '' `` But this is my father 's story , sir ; and I begin to think '' -- the curiously roughened forehead was very intent upon him -- `` that when I was left an orphan , through my mother 's surviving my father only two years , it was you who brought me to England . 
Mr. Lorry took the hesitating little hand that confidingly advanced to take his , and he put it with some ceremony to his lips . 
He then conducted the young lady straightway to her chair again , and , holding the chair-back with his left hand , and using his right by turns to rub his chin , pull his wig at the ears , or point what he said , stood looking down into her face while she sat looking up into his . 
After this odd description of his daily routine of employment , Mr. Lorry flattened his flaxen wig upon his head with both hands -LRB- which was most unnecessary , for nothing could be flatter than its shining surface was before -RRB- , and resumed his former attitude . 
And she caught his wrist with both her hands . 
`` Pray , '' said Mr. Lorry , in a soothing tone , bringing his left hand from the back of the chair to lay it on the supplicatory fingers that clasped him in so violent a tremble : `` pray control your agitation -- a matter of business . 
As I was saying -- '' Her look so discomposed him that he stopped , wandered , and began anew : `` As I was saying ; if Monsieur Manette had not died ; if he had suddenly and silently disappeared ; if he had been spirited away ; if it had not been difficult to guess to what dreadful place , though no art could trace him ; if he had an enemy in some compatriot who could exercise a privilege that I in my own time have known the boldest people afraid to speak of in a whisper , across the water , there ; for instance , the privilege of filling up blank forms for the consignment of any one to the oblivion of a prison for any length of time ; if his wife had implored the king , the queen , the court , the clergy , for any tidings of him , and all quite in vain ; -- then the history of your father would have been the history of this unfortunate gentleman , the Doctor of Beauvais . '' 
-LRB- Though his manner was less satisfied than his words . -RRB- 
Without directly answering to this appeal , she sat so still when he had very gently raised her , and the hands that had not ceased to clasp his wrists were so much more steady than they had been , that she communicated some reassurance to Mr. Jarvis Lorry . 
As he said the words , he looked down , with an admiring pity , on the flowing golden hair ; as if he pictured to himself that it might have been already tinged with grey . 
There has been no new discovery , of money , or of any other property ; but -- '' He felt his wrist held closer , and he stopped . 
The expression in the forehead , which had so particularly attracted his notice , and which was now immovable , had deepened into one of pain and horror . 
A shiver ran through her frame , and from it through his . 
Mr. Lorry quietly chafed the hands that held his arm . 
`` Only one thing more , '' said Mr. Lorry , laying stress upon it as a wholesome means of enforcing her attention : `` he has been found under another name ; his own , long forgotten or long concealed . 
Perfectly still and silent , and not even fallen back in her chair , she sat under his hand , utterly insensible ; with her eyes open and fixed upon him , and with that last expression looking as if it were carved or branded into her forehead . 
So close was her hold upon his arm , that he feared to detach himself lest he should hurt her ; therefore he called out loudly for assistance without moving . 
A wild-looking woman , whom even in his agitation , Mr. Lorry observed to be all of a red colour , and to have red hair , and to be dressed in some extraordinary tight-fitting fashion , and to have on her head a most wonderful bonnet like a Grenadier wooden measure , and good measure too , or a great Stilton cheese , came running into the room in advance of the inn servants , and soon settled the question of his detachment from the poor young lady , by laying a brawny hand upon his chest , and sending him flying back against the nearest wall . 
was Mr. Lorry 's breathless reflection , simultaneously with his coming against the wall . -RRB- 
she said , indignantly turning on Mr. Lorry ; `` could n't you tell her what you had to tell her , without frightening her to death ? 
Mr. Lorry was so exceedingly disconcerted by a question so hard to answer , that he could only look on , at a distance , with much feebler sympathy and humility , while the strong woman , having banished the inn servants under the mysterious penalty of `` letting them know '' something not mentioned if they stayed there , staring , recovered her charge by a regular series of gradations , and coaxed her to lay her drooping head upon her shoulder . 
`` I hope she will do well now , '' said Mr. Lorry . 
`` I hope , '' said Mr. Lorry , after another pause of feeble sympathy and humility , `` that you accompany Miss Manette to France ? '' 
This being another question hard to answer , Mr. Jarvis Lorry withdrew to consider it . 
Mr. Jarvis Lorry and Miss Manette , emerging from the wine-shop thus , joined Monsieur Defarge in the doorway to which he had directed his other company just before . 
In the gloomy tile-paved entry to the gloomy tile-paved staircase , Monsieur Defarge bent down on one knee to the child of his old master , and put her hand to his lips . 
It was a gentle action , but not at all gently done ; a very remarkable transformation had come over him in a few seconds . 
He had no good-humour in his face , nor any openness of aspect left , but had become a secret , angry , dangerous man . 
Thus , Monsieur Defarge , in a stern voice , to Mr. Lorry , as they began ascending the stairs . 
Mr. Lorry 's spirits grew heavier and heavier , as he and his two companions ascended higher and higher . 
Yielding to his own disturbance of mind , and to his young companion 's agitation , which became greater every instant , Mr. Jarvis Lorry twice stopped to rest . 
The keeper of the wine-shop , always going a little in advance , and always going on the side which Mr. Lorry took , as though he dreaded to be asked any question by the young lady , turned himself about here , and , carefully feeling in the pockets of the coat he carried over his shoulder , took out a key . 
said Mr. Lorry , surprised . 
Monsieur Defarge whispered it closer in his ear , and frowned heavily . 
exclaimed Mr. Lorry . 
But , by this time she trembled under such strong emotion , and her face expressed such deep anxiety , and , above all , such dread and terror , that Mr. Lorry felt it incumbent on him to speak a word or two of reassurance . 
There appearing to be no other door on that floor , and the keeper of the wine-shop going straight to this one when they were left alone , Mr. Lorry asked him in a whisper , with a little anger : `` Do you make a show of Monsieur Manette ? '' 
With an admonitory gesture to keep them back , he stooped , and looked in through the crevice in the wall . 
Soon raising his head again , he struck twice or thrice upon the door -- evidently with no other object than to make a noise there . 
With the same intention , he drew the key across it , three or four times , before he put it clumsily into the lock , and turned it as heavily as he could . 
The door slowly opened inward under his hand , and he looked into the room and said something . 
He looked back over his shoulder , and beckoned them to enter . 
Mr. Lorry got his arm securely round the daughter 's waist , and held her ; for he felt that she was sinking . 
he urged , with a moisture that was not of business shining on his cheek . 
asked Defarge , motioning to Mr. Lorry to come forward . 
Mr. Lorry came silently forward , leaving the daughter by the door . 
When he had stood , for a minute or two , by the side of Defarge , the shoemaker looked up . 
Mr. Lorry took it in his hand . 
said Mr. Lorry , looking steadfastly at him . 
His haggard eyes turned to Defarge as if he would have transferred the question to him ; but as no help came from that quarter , they turned back on the questioner when they had sought the ground . 
As he held out his hand for the shoe that had been taken from him , Mr. Lorry said , still looking steadfastly in his face : `` Monsieur Manette , do you remember nothing of me ? '' 
The shoe dropped to the ground , and he sat looking fixedly at the questioner . 
`` Monsieur Manette ; '' Mr. Lorry laid his hand upon Defarge 's arm ; `` do you remember nothing of this man ? 
As the captive of many years sat looking fixedly , by turns at Mr. Lorry and at Defarge , some long-obliterated marks of an actively intent intelligence in the middle of the forehead , gradually forced themselves through the black mist that had fallen on him . 
And so exactly was the expression repeated on the fair young face of her who had crept along the wall to a point where she could see him , and where she now stood looking at him , with hands which at first had been only raised in frightened compassion , if not even to keep him off and shut out the sight of him , but which were now extending towards him , trembling with eagerness to lay the spectral face upon her warm young breast , and love it back to life and hope -- so exactly was the expression repeated -LRB- though in stronger characters -RRB- on her fair young face , that it looked as though it had passed , like a moving light , from him to her . 
Darkness had fallen on him in its place . 
He looked at the two , less and less attentively , and his eyes in gloomy abstraction sought the ground and looked about him in the old way . 
Finally , with a deep long sigh , he took the shoe up , and resumed his work . 
She had moved from the wall of the garret , very near to the bench on which he sat . 
There was something awful in his unconsciousness of the figure that could have put out its hand and touched him as he stooped over his labour . 
She stood , like a spirit , beside him , and he bent over his work . 
It happened , at length , that he had occasion to change the instrument in his hand , for his shoemaker 's knife . 
It lay on that side of him which was not the side on which she stood . 
He had taken it up , and was stooping to work again , when his eyes caught the skirt of her dress . 
He raised them , and saw her face . 
She had no fear of his striking at her with the knife , though they had . 
He stared at her with a fearful look , and after a while his lips began to form some words , though no sound proceeded from them . 
By degrees , in the pauses of his quick and laboured breathing , he was heard to say : `` What is this ! '' 
With the tears streaming down her face , she put her two hands to her lips , and kissed them to him ; then clasped them on her breast , as if she laid his ruined head there . 
N2502005 Not yet trusting the tones of her voice , she sat down on the bench beside him . 
He recoiled , but she laid her hand upon his arm . 
A strange thrill struck him when she did so , and visibly passed over his frame ; he laid the knife down softly , as he sat staring at her . 
Advancing his hand by little and little , he took it up , and looked at it . 
In the midst of the action he went astray , and , with another deep sigh , fell to work at his shoemaking . 
Releasing his arm , she laid her hand upon his shoulder . 
After looking doubtfully at it , two or three times , as if to be sure that it was really there , he laid down his work , put his hand to his neck , and took off a blackened string with a scrap of folded rag attached to it . 
He opened this , carefully , on his knee , and it contained a very little quantity of hair : not more than one or two long golden hairs , which he had , in some old day , wound off upon his finger . 
He took her hair into his hand again , and looked closely at it . 
As the concentrating expression returned to his forehead , he seemed to become conscious that it was in hers too . 
He turned her full to the light , and looked at her . 
He formed this speech with his lips many times before he could utter it . 
But when he did find spoken words for it , they came to him coherently , though slowly . 
Once more , the two spectators started , as he turned upon her with a frightful suddenness . 
But , she sat perfectly still in his grasp , and only said , in a low voice , `` I entreat you , good gentlemen , do not come near us , do not speak , do not move ! '' 
he exclaimed . 
His hands released her as he uttered this cry , and went up to his white hair , which they tore in a frenzy . 
It died out , as everything but his shoemaking did die out of him , and he refolded his little packet and tried to secure it in his breast ; but , he still looked at her , and gloomily shook his head . 
Hailing his softened tone and manner , his daughter fell upon her knees before him , with her appealing hands upon his breast . 
His cold white head mingled with her radiant hair , which warmed and lighted it as though it were the light of Freedom shining on him . 
She held him closer round the neck , and rocked him on her breast like a child . 
He had sunk in her arms , with his face dropped on her breast : a sight so touching , yet so terrible in the tremendous wrong and suffering which had gone before it , that the two beholders covered their faces . 
When the quiet of the garret had been long undisturbed , and his heaving breast and shaken form had long yielded to the calm that must follow all storms -- emblem to humanity , of the rest and silence into which the storm called Life must hush at last -- they came forward to raise the father and daughter from the ground . 
`` If , without disturbing him , '' she said , raising her hand to Mr. Lorry as he stooped over them , after repeated blowings of his nose , `` all could be arranged for our leaving Paris at once , so that , from the very door , he could be taken away -- '' `` But , consider . 
asked Mr. Lorry . 
`` That 's business , '' said Mr. Lorry , resuming on the shortest notice his methodical manners ; `` and if business is to be done , I had better do it . '' 
Both Mr. Lorry and Defarge were rather disinclined to this course , and in favour of one of them remaining . 
Mr. Lorry and Monsieur Defarge had made all ready for the journey , and had brought with them , besides travelling cloaks and wrappers , bread and meat , wine , and hot coffee . 
Monsieur Defarge put this provender , and the lamp he carried , on the shoemaker 's bench -LRB- there was nothing else in the garret but a pallet bed -RRB- , and he and Mr. Lorry roused the captive , and assisted him to his feet . 
No human intelligence could have read the mysteries of his mind , in the scared blank wonder of his face . 
Whether he knew what had happened , whether he recollected what they had said to him , whether he knew that he was free , were questions which no sagacity could have solved . 
They tried speaking to him ; but , he was so confused , and so very slow to answer , that they took fright at his bewilderment , and agreed for the time to tamper with him no more . 
He had a wild , lost manner of occasionally clasping his head in his hands , that had not been seen in him before ; yet , he had some pleasure in the mere sound of his daughter 's voice , and invariably turned to it when she spoke . 
In the submissive way of one long accustomed to obey under coercion , he ate and drank what they gave him to eat and drink , and put on the cloak and other wrappings that they gave him to wear . 
He readily responded to his daughter 's drawing her arm through his , and took -- and kept -- her hand in both of his own . 
They began to descend ; Monsieur Defarge going first with the lamp , Mr. Lorry closing the little procession . 
They had not traversed many steps of the long main staircase when he stopped , and stared at the roof and round at the walls . 
But , before she could repeat the question , he murmured an answer as if she had repeated it . 
That he had no recollection whatever of his having been brought from his prison to that house , was apparent to them . 
They heard him mutter , `` One Hundred and Five , North Tower ; '' and when he looked about him , it evidently was for the strong fortress-walls which had long encompassed him . 
On their reaching the court-yard , he instinctively altered his tread , as being in expectation of a drawbridge ; and when there was no drawbridge , and he saw the carriage waiting in the open street , he dropped his daughter 's hand and clasped his head again . 
The prisoner had got into the coach , and his daughter had followed him , when Mr. Lorry 's feet were arrested on the step by his asking , miserably , for his shoemaking tools and the unfinished shoes . 
All through the cold and restless interval , until dawn , they once more whispered in the ears of Mr. Jarvis Lorry -- sitting opposite the buried man who had been dug out , and wondering what subtle powers were for ever lost to him , and what were capable of restoration -- the old inquiry : `` I hope you care to be recalled to life ? '' 
And you know Mr. Lorry . '' 
`` I know Mr. Lorry , sir , much better than I know the Bailey . 
Find the door where the witnesses go in , and show the doorkeeper this note for Mr. Lorry . 
The doorkeeper will pass the note to Mr. Lorry , and do you make any gesture that will attract Mr. Lorry 's attention , and show him where you stand . 
Then what you have to do , is , to remain there until he wants you . '' 
He wishes to have a messenger at hand . 
This is to tell him you are there . '' 
Mr. Cruncher 's attention was here diverted to the doorkeeper , whom he saw making his way to Mr. Lorry , with the note in his hand . 
Mr. Lorry sat at a table , among the gentlemen in wigs : not far from a wigged gentleman , the prisoner 's counsel , who had a great bundle of papers before him : and nearly opposite another wigged gentleman with his hands in his pockets , whose whole attention , when Mr. Cruncher looked at him then or afterwards , seemed to be concentrated on the ceiling of the court . 
After some gruff coughing and rubbing of his chin and signing with his hand , Jerry attracted the notice of Mr. Lorry , who had stood up to look for him , and who quietly nodded , and sat down again . 
Having released his noble bosom of its burden , he would have modestly withdrawn himself , but that the wigged gentleman with the papers before him , sitting not far from Mr. Lorry , begged to ask him a few questions . 
The blue-flies buzzed again , and Mr. Attorney-General called Mr. Jarvis Lorry . 
`` Mr. Jarvis Lorry , are you a clerk in Tellson 's bank ? '' 
`` Mr. Lorry , look upon the prisoner . 
`` Mr. Lorry , look again upon the prisoner . 
Supposing him wrapped up as those two passengers were , is there anything in his bulk and stature to render it unlikely that he was one of them ? '' 
`` You will not swear , Mr. Lorry , that he was not one of them ? '' 
`` So at least you say he may have been one of them ? '' 
`` Did you ever see a counterfeit of timidity , Mr. Lorry ? '' 
`` Mr. Lorry , look once more upon the prisoner . 
Have you seen him , to your certain knowledge , before ? '' 
`` Never mind about ` happening , ' Mr. Lorry . 
`` Were you travelling alone , Mr. Lorry , or with any companion ? '' 
Mr. Lorry , who had gone out when the young lady and her father went out , now reappeared , and beckoned to Jerry : who , in the slackened interest , could easily get near him . 
Mr. Carton came up at the moment , and touched Mr. Lorry on the arm . 
Mr. Lorry reddened , as if he were conscious of having debated the point in his mind , and Mr. Carton made his way to the outside of the bar . 
Mr. Lorry was already calling at the door when he got there . 
Mr. Lorry handed him a paper through the throng . 
From the dimly-lighted passages of the court , the last sediment of the human stew that had been boiling there all day , was straining off , when Doctor Manette , Lucie Manette his daughter , Mr. Lorry , the solicitor for the defence , and its counsel Mr. Stryver , stood gathered around Mr. Charles Darnay -- just released -- congratulating him on his escape from death . 
He still had his wig and gown on , and he said , squaring himself at his late client to that degree that he squeezed the innocent Mr. Lorry clean out of the group : `` I am glad to have brought you off with honour , Mr. Darnay . 
`` You have laid me under an obligation to you for life -- in two senses , '' said his late client , taking his hand . 
It clearly being incumbent on somebody to say , `` Much better , '' Mr. Lorry said it ; perhaps not quite disinterestedly , but with the interested object of squeezing himself back again . 
`` And as such , '' quoth Mr. Lorry , whom the counsel learned in the law had now shouldered back into the group , just as he had previously shouldered him out of it -- `` as such , I will appeal to Doctor Manette , to break up this conference and order us all to our homes . 
`` Speak for yourself , Mr. Lorry , '' said Stryver ; `` I have a night 's work to do yet . 
`` I speak for myself , '' answered Mr. Lorry , `` and for Mr. Darnay , and for Miss Lucie , and -- Miss Lucie , do you not think I may speak for us all ? '' 
He asked her the question pointedly , and with a glance at her father . 
His face had become frozen , as it were , in a very curious look at Darnay : an intent look , deepening into a frown of dislike and distrust , not even unmixed with fear . 
`` My father , '' said Lucie , softly laying her hand on his . 
He slowly shook the shadow off , and turned to her . 
With a long breath , he answered , `` Yes . '' 
The friends of the acquitted prisoner had dispersed , under the impression -- which he himself had originated -- that he would not be released that night . 
He now stepped up to where Mr. Lorry and Mr. Darnay stood upon the pavement . 
`` So , Mr. Lorry ! 
Mr. Lorry reddened , and said , warmly , `` You have mentioned that before , sir . 
`` Do n't be nettled , Mr. Lorry . 
`` And indeed , sir , '' pursued Mr. Lorry , not minding him , `` I really do n't know what you have to do with the matter . 
`` If you had , '' pursued Mr. Lorry , `` perhaps you would attend to it . '' 
cried Mr. Lorry , thoroughly heated by his indifference , `` business is a very good thing , and a very respectable thing . 
Perhaps a little angry with himself , as well as with the barrister , Mr. Lorry bustled into the chair , and was carried off to Tellson 's . 
On the afternoon of a certain fine Sunday when the waves of four months had rolled over the trial for treason , and carried it , as to the public interest and memory , far out to sea , Mr. Jarvis Lorry walked along the sunny streets from Clerkenwell where he lived , on his way to dine with the Doctor . 
After several relapses into business-absorption , Mr. Lorry had become the Doctor 's friend , and the quiet street-corner was the sunny part of his life . 
On this certain fine Sunday , Mr. Lorry walked towards Soho , early in the afternoon , for three reasons of habit . 
Firstly , because , on fine Sundays , he often walked out , before dinner , with the Doctor and Lucie ; secondly , because , on unfavourable Sundays , he was accustomed to be with them as the family friend , talking , reading , looking out of window , and generally getting through the day ; thirdly , because he happened to have his own little shrewd doubts to solve , and knew how the ways of the Doctor 's household pointed to that time as a likely time for solving them . 
These things were within Mr. Jarvis Lorry 's knowledge , thoughts , and notice , when he rang the door-bell of the tranquil house in the corner , on the fine Sunday afternoon . 
`` As I am at home myself , '' said Mr. Lorry , `` I 'll go up-stairs . '' 
The disposition of everything in the rooms , from the largest object to the least ; the arrangement of colours , the elegant variety and contrast obtained by thrift in trifles , by delicate hands , clear eyes , and good sense ; were at once so pleasant in themselves , and so expressive of their originator , that , as Mr. Lorry stood looking about him , the very chairs and tables seemed to ask him , with something of that peculiar expression which he knew so well by this time , whether he approved ? 
There were three rooms on a floor , and , the doors by which they communicated being put open that the air might pass freely through them all , Mr. Lorry , smilingly observant of that fanciful resemblance which he detected all around him , walked from one to another . 
`` I wonder , '' said Mr. Lorry , pausing in his looking about , `` that he keeps that reminder of his sufferings by him ! '' 
was the abrupt inquiry that made him start . 
`` I should have thought -- `` Mr. Lorry began . 
said Miss Pross ; and Mr. Lorry left off . 
inquired that lady then -- sharply , and yet as if to express that she bore him no malice . 
`` I am pretty well , I thank you , '' answered Mr. Lorry , with meekness , `` how are you ? '' 
said Mr. Lorry as an amendment . 
said Mr. Lorry , as the safest remark he could think of . 
Not seeing with precision what was very hard , Mr. Lorry shook his head ; using that important part of himself as a sort of fairy cloak that would fit anything . 
if that was beginning it -- '' said Mr. Lorry . 
Mr. Lorry knew Miss Pross to be very jealous , but he also knew her by this time to be , beneath the surface of her eccentricity , one of those unselfish creatures -- found only among women -- who will , for pure love and admiration , bind themselves willing slaves , to youth when they have lost it , to beauty that they never had , to accomplishments that they were never fortunate enough to gain , to bright hopes that never shone upon their own sombre lives . 
He knew enough of the world to know that there is nothing in it better than the faithful service of the heart ; so rendered and so free from any mercenary taint , he had such an exalted respect for it , that , in the retributive arrangements made by his own mind -- we all make such arrangements , more or less -- he stationed Miss Pross much nearer to the lower Angles than many ladies immeasurably better got up both by Nature and Art , who had balances at Tellson 's . 
Here again : Mr. Lorry 's inquiries into Miss Pross 's personal history , had established the fact that her brother Solomon was a heartless scoundrel who had stripped her of everything she possessed , as a stake to speculate with , and had abandoned her in her poverty for evermore , with no touch of compunction . 
Miss Pross 's fidelity of belief in Solomon -LRB- deducting a mere trifle for this slight mistake -RRB- was quite a serious matter with Mr. Lorry , and had its weight in his good opinion of her . 
`` Do you imagine -- `` Mr. Lorry had begun , when Miss Pross took him up short with : `` Never imagine anything . 
`` Do you suppose , '' Mr. Lorry went on , with a laughing twinkle in his bright eye , as it looked kindly at her , `` that Doctor Manette has any theory of his own , preserved through all those years , relative to the cause of his being so oppressed ; perhaps , even to the name of his oppressor ? '' 
Rather wishing his modest adjective away , Mr. Lorry replied , `` No , no , no . 
It was a profounder remark than Mr. Lorry had looked for . 
`` True , '' said he , `` and fearful to reflect upon . 
It was such a curious corner in its acoustical properties , such a peculiar Ear of a place , that as Mr. Lorry stood at the open window , looking for the father and daughter whose steps he heard , he fancied they would never approach . 
Mr. Lorry was a pleasant sight too , beaming at all this in his little wig , and thanking his bachelor stars for having lighted him in his declining years to a Home . 
But , no Hundreds of people came to see the sights , and Mr. Lorry looked in vain for the fulfilment of Miss Pross 's prediction . 
As everything turned upon her and revolved about her , they went out under the plane-tree , and she carried the wine down for the special benefit of Mr. Lorry . 
She had installed herself , some time before , as Mr. Lorry 's cup-bearer ; and while they sat under the plane-tree , talking , she kept his glass replenished . 
But , he said not a single word in reference to the discovery that had been told of , and , as they went into the house , the business eye of Mr. Lorry either detected , or fancied it detected , on his face , as it turned towards Charles Darnay , the same singular look that had been upon it when it turned towards him in the passages of the Court House . 
He recovered himself so quickly , however , that Mr. Lorry had doubts of his business eye . 
The arm of the golden giant in the hall was not more steady than he was , when he stopped under it to remark to them that he was not yet proof against slight surprises -LRB- if he ever would be -RRB- , and that the rain had startled him . 
The great bell of Saint Paul 's was striking One in the cleared air , when Mr. Lorry , escorted by Jerry , high-booted and bearing a lantern , set forth on his return-passage to Clerkenwell . 
There were solitary patches of road on the way between Soho and Clerkenwell , and Mr. Lorry , mindful of footpads , always retained Jerry for this service : though it was usually performed a good two hours earlier . 
Almost a night , Jerry , '' said Mr. Lorry , `` to bring the dead out of their graves . '' 
Monseigneur , one of the great lords in power at the Court , held his fortnightly reception in his grand hotel in Paris . 
Monseigneur was in his inner room , his sanctuary of sanctuaries , the Holiest of Holiests to the crowd of worshippers in the suite of rooms without . 
Monseigneur was about to take his chocolate . 
Monseigneur could swallow a great many things with ease , and was by some few sullen minds supposed to be rather rapidly swallowing France ; but , his morning 's chocolate could not so much as get into the throat of Monseigneur , without the aid of four strong men besides the Cook . 
His way taking him past Tellson 's , and he both banking at Tellson 's and knowing Mr. Lorry as the intimate friend of the Manettes , it entered Mr. Stryver 's mind to enter the bank , and reveal to Mr. Lorry the brightness of the Soho horizon . 
So , he pushed open the door with the weak rattle in its throat , stumbled down the two steps , got past the two ancient cashiers , and shouldered himself into the musty back closet where Mr. Lorry sat at great books ruled for figures , with perpendicular iron bars to his window as if that were ruled for figures too , and everything under the clouds were a sum . 
The discreet Mr. Lorry said , in a sample tone of the voice he would recommend under the circumstances , `` How do you do , Mr. Stryver ? 
There was a peculiarity in his manner of shaking hands , always to be seen in any clerk at Tellson 's who shook hands with a customer when the House pervaded the air . 
He shook in a self-abnegating way , as one who shook for Tellson and Co. . 
asked Mr. Lorry , in his business character . 
`` Why , no thank you ; this is a private visit to yourself , Mr. Lorry ; I have come for a private word . '' 
said Mr. Lorry , bending down his ear , while his eye strayed to the House afar off . 
`` I am going , '' said Mr. Stryver , leaning his arms confidentially on the desk : whereupon , although it was a large double one , there appeared to be not half desk enough for him : `` I am going to make an offer of myself in marriage to your agreeable little friend Miss Manette , Mr. Lorry . '' 
cried Mr. Lorry , rubbing his chin , and looking at his visitor dubiously . 
What may your meaning be , Mr. Lorry ? '' 
But -- really , you know , Mr. Stryver -- '' Mr. Lorry paused , and shook his head at him in the oddest manner , as if he were compelled against his will to add , internally , `` you know there really is so much too much of you ! '' 
said Stryver , slapping the desk with his contentious hand , opening his eyes wider , and taking a long breath , `` if I understand you , Mr. Lorry , I 'll be hanged ! '' 
N2502009 Mr. Lorry adjusted his little wig at both ears as a means towards that end , and bit the feather of a pen . 
said Mr. Lorry . 
if you come to prosperous , you are prosperous , '' said Mr. Lorry . 
`` If you come to advancing , you know , '' said Mr. Lorry , delighted to be able to make another admission , `` nobody can doubt that . '' 
`` Then what on earth is your meaning , Mr. Lorry ? '' 
asked Mr. Lorry . 
`` Because , '' said Mr. Lorry , `` I would n't go on such an object without having some cause to believe that I should succeed . '' 
Mr. Lorry glanced at the distant House , and glanced at the angry Stryver . 
The young lady , my good sir , '' said Mr. Lorry , mildly tapping the Stryver arm , `` the young lady . 
`` Then you mean to tell me , Mr. Lorry , '' said Stryver , squaring his elbows , `` that it is your deliberate opinion that the young lady at present in question is a mincing Fool ? '' 
I mean to tell you , Mr. Stryver , '' said Mr. Lorry , reddening , `` that I will hear no disrespectful word of that young lady from any lips ; and that if I knew any man -- which I hope I do not -- whose taste was so coarse , and whose temper was so overbearing , that he could not restrain himself from speaking disrespectfully of that young lady at this desk , not even Tellson 's should prevent my giving him a piece of my mind . '' 
The necessity of being angry in a suppressed tone had put Mr. Stryver 's blood-vessels into a dangerous state when it was his turn to be angry ; Mr. Lorry 's veins , methodical as their courses could usually be , were in no better state now it was his turn . 
`` That is what I mean to tell you , sir , '' said Mr. Lorry . 
He broke the awkward silence by saying : `` This is something new to me , Mr. Lorry . 
`` Now understand me , '' pursued Mr. Lorry . 
And understand me , sir , '' said Mr. Lorry , quickly flushing again . 
Accordingly , when Mr. Lorry called that night as late as ten o'clock , Mr. Stryver , among a quantity of books and papers littered out for the purpose , seemed to have nothing less on his mind than the subject of the morning . 
He even showed surprise when he saw Mr. Lorry , and was altogether in an absent and preoccupied state . 
`` And I have no doubt , '' said Mr. Lorry , `` that I was right in the conversation we had . 
`` I do n't understand you , '' said Mr. Lorry . 
`` But it does matter , '' Mr. Lorry urged . 
Mr. Lorry , you can not control the mincing vanities and giddinesses of emptyheaded girls ; you must not expect to do it , or you will always be disappointed . 
Mr. Lorry was so taken aback , that he looked quite stupidly at Mr. Stryver shouldering him towards the door , with an appearance of showering generosity , forbearance , and good-will , on his erring head . 
Mr. Lorry was out in the night , before he knew where he was . 
There was no one bidden to the marriage but Mr. Lorry ; there was even to be no bridesmaid but the gaunt Miss Pross . 
They were ready to go to church ; the beautiful bride , Mr. Lorry , and Miss Pross -- to whom the event , through a gradual process of reconcilement to the inevitable , would have been one of absolute bliss , but for the yet lingering consideration that her brother Solomon should have been the bridegroom . 
`` And so , '' said Mr. Lorry , who could not sufficiently admire the bride , and who had been moving round her to take in every point of her quiet , pretty dress ; `` and so it was for this , my sweet Lucie , that I brought you across the Channel , such a baby ! 
Well ; but do n't cry , '' said the gentle Mr. Lorry . 
-LRB- By this time , Mr. Lorry dared to be pleasant with her , on occasion . -RRB- 
`` I am highly gratified , '' said Mr. Lorry , `` though , upon my honour , I had no intention of rendering those trifling articles of remembrance , invisible to any one . 
observed Mr. Lorry , beamingly adjusting his little wig , `` that seems probable , too . '' 
`` Then , I think , '' said Mr. Lorry , `` that I was very unhandsomely dealt with , and that I ought to have had a voice in the selection of my pattern . 
Now , my dear Lucie , '' drawing his arm soothingly round her waist , `` I hear them moving in the next room , and Miss Pross and I , as two formal folks of business , are anxious not to lose the final opportunity of saying something to you that you wish to hear . 
For a moment , he held the fair face from him to look at the well-remembered expression on the forehead , and then laid the bright golden hair against his little brown wig , with a genuine tenderness and delicacy , which , if such things be old fashioned , were as old as Adam . 
But , in the composure of his manner he was unaltered , except that to the shrewd glance of Mr. Lorry it disclosed some shadowy indication that the old air of avoidance and dread had lately passed over him , like a cold wind . 
He gave his arm to his daughter , and took her down stairs to the chariot which Mr. Lorry had hired in honour of the day . 
Besides the glancing tears that shone among the smiles of the little group when it was done , some diamonds , very bright and sparkling , glanced on the bride 's hand , which were newly released from the dark obscurity of one of Mr. Lorry 's pockets . 
The corner being out of the way of the idle and curious , and the preparations having been very simple and few , the Doctor , Mr. Lorry , and Miss Pross , were left quite alone . 
It was when they turned into the welcome shade of the cool old hall , that Mr. Lorry observed a great change to have come over the Doctor ; as if the golden arm uplifted there , had struck him a poisoned blow . 
He had naturally repressed much , and some revulsion might have been expected in him when the occasion for repression was gone . 
But , it was the old scared lost look that troubled Mr. Lorry ; and through his absent manner of clasping his head and drearily wandering away into his own room when they got up-stairs , Mr. Lorry was reminded of Defarge the wine-shop keeper , and the starlight ride . 
`` I think , '' he whispered to Miss Pross , after anxious consideration , `` I think we had best not speak to him just now , or at all disturb him . 
It was easier for Mr. Lorry to look in at Tellson 's , than to look out of Tellson 's . 
When he came back , he ascended the old staircase alone , having asked no question of the servant ; going thus into the Doctor 's rooms , he was stopped by a low sound of knocking . 
Mr. Lorry said what he could to calm her , and went himself into the Doctor 's room . 
Mr. Lorry glanced at the work in his hand , and observed that it was a shoe of the old size and shape . 
He took up another that was lying by him , and asked him what it was ? 
`` A young lady 's walking shoe , '' he muttered , without looking up . 
Look at me ! '' 
He obeyed , in the old mechanically submissive manner , without pausing in his work . 
Nothing would induce him to speak more . 
He looked up , for an instant at a time , when he was requested to do so ; but , no persuasion would extract a word from him . 
He worked , and worked , and worked , in silence , and words fell on him as they would have fallen on an echoless wall , or on the air . 
The only ray of hope that Mr. Lorry could discover , was , that he sometimes furtively looked up without being asked . 
In that , there seemed a faint expression of curiosity or perplexity -- as though he were trying to reconcile some doubts in his mind . 
Two things at once impressed themselves on Mr. Lorry , as important above all others ; the first , that this must be kept secret from Lucie ; the second , that it must be kept secret from all who knew him . 
These measures , advisable to be taken in any case , Mr. Lorry took in the hope of his coming to himself . 
If that should happen soon , he kept another course in reserve ; which was , to have a certain opinion that he thought the best , on the Doctor 's case . 
In the hope of his recovery , and of resort to this third course being thereby rendered practicable , Mr. Lorry resolved to watch him attentively , with as little appearance as possible of doing so . 
He therefore made arrangements to absent himself from Tellson 's for the first time in his life , and took his post by the window in the same room . 
He was not long in discovering that it was worse than useless to speak to him , since , on being pressed , he became worried . 
He abandoned that attempt on the first day , and resolved merely to keep himself always before him , as a silent protest against the delusion into which he had fallen , or was falling . 
He remained , therefore , in his seat near the window , reading and writing , and expressing in as many pleasant and natural ways as he could think of , that it was a free place . 
Doctor Manette took what was given him to eat and drink , and worked on , that first day , until it was too dark to see -- worked on , half an hour after Mr. Lorry could not have seen , for his life , to read or write . 
When he put his tools aside as useless , until morning , Mr. Lorry rose and said to him : `` Will you go out ? '' 
He looked down at the floor on either side of him in the old manner , looked up in the old manner , and repeated in the old low voice : `` Out ? '' 
Why not ? '' 
But , Mr. Lorry thought he saw , as he leaned forward on his bench in the dusk , with his elbows on his knees and his head in his hands , that he was in some misty way asking himself , `` Why not ? '' 
On this second day , Mr. Lorry saluted him cheerfully by his name , and spoke to him on topics that had been of late familiar to them . 
He returned no reply , but it was evident that he heard what was said , and that he thought about it , however confusedly . 
This encouraged Mr. Lorry to have Miss Pross in with her work , several times during the day ; at those times , they quietly spoke of Lucie , and of her father then present , precisely in the usual manner , and as if there were nothing amiss . 
This was done without any demonstrative accompaniment , not long enough , or often enough to harass him ; and it lightened Mr. Lorry 's friendly heart to believe that he looked up oftener , and that he appeared to be stirred by some perception of inconsistencies surrounding him . 
When it fell dark again , Mr. Lorry asked him as before : `` Dear Doctor , will you go out ? '' 
As before , he repeated , `` Out ? '' 
This time , Mr. Lorry feigned to go out when he could extract no answer from him , and , after remaining absent for an hour , returned . 
In the mean while , the Doctor had removed to the seat in the window , and had sat there looking down at the plane-tree ; but , on Mr. Lorry 's return , he slipped away to his bench . 
The time went very slowly on , and Mr. Lorry 's hope darkened , and his heart grew heavier again , and grew yet heavier and heavier every day . 
With a hope ever darkening , and with a heart always growing heavier and heavier , Mr. Lorry passed through this anxious time . 
The secret was well kept , and Lucie was unconscious and happy ; but , he could not fail to observe that the shoemaker , whose hand had been a little out at first , was growing dreadfully skilful , and that he had never been so intent on his work , and that his hands had never been so nimble and expert , as in the dusk of the ninth evening . 
Worn out by anxious watching , Mr. Lorry fell asleep at his post . 
On the tenth morning of his suspense , he was startled by the shining of the sun into the room where a heavy slumber had overtaken him when it was dark night . 
He rubbed his eyes and roused himself ; but he doubted , when he had done so , whether he was not still asleep . 
He was in his usual morning dress , and his face -LRB- which Mr. Lorry could distinctly see -RRB- , though still very pale , was calmly studious and attentive . 
Even when he had satisfied himself that he was awake , Mr. Lorry felt giddily uncertain for some few moments whether the late shoemaking might not be a disturbed dream of his own ; for , did not his eyes show him his friend before him in his accustomed clothing and aspect , and employed as usual ; and was there any sign within their range , that the change of which he had so strong an impression had actually happened ? 
It was but the inquiry of his first confusion and astonishment , the answer being obvious . 
If the impression were not produced by a real corresponding , and sufficient cause , how came he , Jarvis Lorry , there ? 
How came he to have fallen asleep , in his clothes , on the sofa in Doctor Manette 's consulting-room , and to be debating these points outside the Doctor 's bedroom door in the early morning ? 
If he appeared to be in his customary state of mind , Mr. Lorry would then cautiously proceed to seek direction and guidance from the opinion he had been , in his anxiety , so anxious to obtain . 
Miss Pross , submitting herself to his judgment , the scheme was worked out with care . 
Having abundance of time for his usual methodical toilette , Mr. Lorry presented himself at the breakfasthour in his usual white linen and with his usual neat leg . 
So far as it was possible to comprehend him without overstepping those delicate and gradual approaches which Mr. Lorry felt to be the only safe advance , he at first supposed that his daughter 's marriage had taken place yesterday . 
An incidental allusion , purposely thrownout , to the day of the week , and the day of the month , set him thinking and counting , and evidently made him uneasy . 
In all other respects , however , he was so composedly himself , that Mr. Lorry determined to have the aid he sought . 
And that aid was his own . 
Therefore , when the breakfast was done and cleared away , and he and the Doctor were left together , Mr. Lorry said , feelingly : `` My dear Manette , I am anxious to have your opinion , in confidence , on a very curious case in which I am deeply interested ; that is to say , it is very curious to me ; perhaps , to your better information it may be less so . '' 
Glancing at his hands , which were discoloured by his late work , the Doctor looked troubled , and listened attentively . 
`` Doctor Manette , '' said Mr. Lorry , touching him affectionately on the arm , `` the case is the case of a particularly dear friend of mine . 
Mr. Lorry saw that they understood one another , and proceeded . 
But , unfortunately , there has been , '' he paused and took a deep breath -- `` a slight relapse . '' 
Mr. Lorry grasped his hand in return , and neither of the two spoke for a little while . 
`` Now , my dear Manette , '' said Mr. Lorry , at length , in his most considerate and most affectionate way , `` I am a mere man of business , and unfit to cope with such intricate and difficult matters . 
Doctor Manette sat meditating after these earnest words were spoken , and Mr. Lorry did not press him . 
Mr. Lorry ventured to ask . 
`` Very much . '' 
`` Would he , '' asked Mr. Lorry , `` be sensibly relieved if he could prevail upon himself to impart that secret brooding to any one , when it is on him ? '' 
`` Now , '' said Mr. Lorry , gently laying his hand on the Doctor 's arm again , after a short silence on both sides , `` to what would you refer this attack ? '' 
asked Mr. Lorry , with natural hesitation . 
`` Now , as to the future , '' hinted Mr. Lorry . 
said Mr. Lorry . 
repeated the Doctor , bending his head with reverence . 
`` There are two other points , '' said Mr. Lorry , `` on which I am anxious to be instructed . 
`` The occupation resumed under the influence of this passing affliction so happily recovered from , '' said Mr. Lorry , clearing his throat , `` we will call -- Blacksmith 's work . 
The Doctor shaded his forehead with his hand , and beat his foot nervously on the ground . 
`` He has always kept it by him '' said Mr. Lorry , with an anxious look at his friend . 
said Mr. Lorry . 
And yet I think -- '' And there he shook his head , and stopped . 
He looked like his illustration , as he raised his eyes to Mr. Lorry 's face . 
`` I would not keep it , '' said Mr. Lorry , shaking his head ; for he gained in firmness as he saw the Doctor disquieted . 
Very strange to see what a struggle there was within him ! 
Mr. Lorry readily engaged for that , and the conference was ended . 
The precaution that had been taken to account for his silence , Mr. Lorry had previously explained to him , and he had written to Lucie in accordance with it , and she had no suspicions . 
On the night of the day on which he left the house , Mr. Lorry went into his room with a chopper , saw , chisel , and hammer , attended by Miss Pross carrying a light . 
There , with closed doors , and in a mysterious and guilty manner , Mr. Lorry hacked the shoemaker 's bench to pieces , while Miss Pross held the candle as if she were assisting at a murder -- for which , indeed , in her grimness , she was no unsuitable figure . 
So wicked do destruction and secrecy appear to honest minds , that Mr. Lorry and Miss Pross , while engaged in the commission of their deed and in the removal of its traces , almost felt , and almost looked , like accomplices in a horrible crime . 
When the newly-married pair came home , the first person who appeared , to offer his congratulations , was Sydney Carton . 
They had not been at home many hours , when he presented himself . 
He was not improved in habits , or in looks , or in manner ; but , there was a certain rugged air of fidelity about him , which was new to the observation of Charles Darnay . 
When he was gone , and in the course of an evening passed with Miss Pross , the Doctor , and Mr. Lorry , Charles Darnay made some mention of this conversation in general terms , and spoke of Sydney Carton as a problem of carelessness and recklessness . 
On a night in mid-July , one thousand seven hundred and eighty-nine , Mr. Lorry came in late , from Tellson 's , and sat himself down by Lucie and her husband in the dark window . 
`` I began to think , '' said Mr. Lorry , pushing his brown wig back , `` that I should have to pass the night at Tellson 's . 
`` I know that , to be sure , '' assented Mr. Lorry , trying to persuade himself that his sweet temper was soured , and that he grumbled , `` but I am determined to be peevish after my long day 's botheration . 
`` A fancy , then , my wise pet , '' said Mr. Lorry , patting her hand . 
On a steaming , misty afternoon , Mr. Lorry sat at his desk , and Charles Darnay stood leaning on it , talking with him in a low voice . 
said Mr. Lorry . 
`` My dear Charles , '' said Mr. Lorry , with cheerful confidence , `` you touch some of the reasons for my going : not for my staying away . 
exclaimed Mr. Lorry . 
`` My dear Mr. Lorry , it is because I am a Frenchman born , that the thought -LRB- which I did not mean to utter here , however -RRB- has passed through my mind often . 
Only last night , after you had left us , when I was talking to Lucie -- '' `` When you were talking to Lucie , '' Mr. Lorry repeated . 
The truth is , my dear Charles , '' Mr. Lorry glanced at the distant House , and lowered his voice , `` you can have no conception of the difficulty with which our business is transacted , and of the peril in which our books and papers over yonder are involved . 
`` How I admire the gallantry of your youthful spirit , Mr. Lorry . '' 
-- And , my dear Charles , '' said Mr. Lorry , glancing at the House again , `` you are to remember , that getting things out of Paris at this present time , no matter what things , is next to an impossibility . 
This dialogue had taken place at Mr. Lorry 's usual desk , with Monseigneur swarming within a yard or two of it , boastful of what he would do to avenge himself on the rascal-people before long . 
It was too much the way of Monseigneur under his reverses as a refugee , and it was much too much the way of native British orthodoxy , to talk of this terrible Revolution as if it were the one only harvest ever known under the skies that had not been sown -- as if nothing had ever been done , or omitted to be done , that had led to it -- as if observers of the wretched , millions in France , and of the misused and perverted resources that should have made them prosperous , had not seen it inevitably coming , years before , and had not in plain words recorded what they saw . 
The House approached Mr. Lorry , and laying a soiled and unopened letter before him , asked if he had yet discovered any traces of the person to whom it was addressed ? 
Nobody else knew it to be his name ; his own wife had no suspicion of the fact ; Mr. Lorry could have none . 
`` No , '' said Mr. Lorry , in reply to the House ; `` I have referred it , I think , to everybody now here , and no one can tell me where this gentleman is to be found . '' 
The hands of the clock verging upon the hour of closing the Bank , there was a general set of the current of talkers past Mr. Lorry 's desk . 
Mr. Lorry and Charles Darnay were left alone at the desk , in the general departure from the Bank . 
said Mr. Lorry . 
He walked to and fro , with thoughts very busy , until it was time to return to Tellson 's , and take leave of Mr. Lorry . 
`` I have delivered that letter , '' said Charles Darnay to Mr. Lorry . 
`` That I will , and readily , '' said Mr. Lorry , `` if it is not dangerous . '' 
said Mr. Lorry , with his open pocket-book in his hand . 
`` No . '' 
He helped Mr. Lorry to wrap himself in a number of coats and cloaks , and went out with him from the warm atmosphere of the old bank , into the misty air of Fleet-street . 
`` My love to Lucie , and to little Lucie , '' said Mr. Lorry at parting , `` and take precious care of them till I come back . '' 
Charles Darnay shook his head and doubtfully smiled , as the carriage rolled away . 
That night -- it was the fourteenth of August -- he sat up late , and wrote two fervent letters ; one was to Lucie , explaining the strong obligation he was under to go to Paris , and showing her , at length , the reasons that he had , for feeling confident that he could become involved in no personal danger there ; the other was to the Doctor , confiding Lucie and their dear child to his care , and dwelling on the same topics with the strongest assurances . 
He , therefore , made haste to say : `` It is of the utmost importance to me -LRB- you know , Citizen , even better than I , of how much importance -RRB- , that I should be able to communicate to Mr. Lorry of Tellson 's Bank , and English gentleman who is now in Paris , the simple fact , without comment , that I have been thrown into the prison of La Force . 
What money would be drawn out of Tellson 's henceforth , and what would lie there , lost and forgotten ; what plate and jewels would tarnish in Tellson 's hiding-places , while the depositors rusted in prisons , and when they should have violently perished ; how many accounts with Tellson 's , never to be balanced in this world , must be carried over into the next ; no man could have said , that night , any more than Mr. Jarvis Lorry could , though he thought heavily of these questions . 
He sat by a newly lighted wood fire -LRB- the blighted and unfruitful year was prematurely cold -RRB- , and on his honest and courageous face there was a deeper shade than the pendent lamp could throw , or any object in the room distortedly reflect -- a shade of horror . 
He occupied rooms in the Bank , in his fidelity to the House of which he had grown to be a part , like strong root-ivy . 
Rising and looking out of window at these harmless objects , Mr. Lorry shivered , and retired to his seat by the fire . 
He had opened , not only the glass window , but the lattice blind outside it , and he had closed both again , and he shivered through his frame . 
`` Thank God , '' said Mr. Lorry , clasping his hands , `` that no one near and dear to me is in this dreadful town to-night . 
Soon afterwards , the bell at the great gate sounded , and he thought , `` They have come back ! '' 
But , there was no loud irruption into the court-yard as he had expected , and he heard the gate clash again , and all was quiet . 
The nervousness and dread that were upon him inspired that vague uneasiness respecting the Bank , which a great charge would naturally awaken , with such feelings roused . 
It was well guarded , and he got up to go among the trusty people who were watching it , when his door suddenly opened , and two figures rushed in , at sight of which he fell back in amazement . 
Lucie with her arms stretched out to him , and with that old look of earnestness so concentrated and intensified , that it seemed as though it had been stamped upon her face expressly to give force and power to it in this one passage of her life . 
cried Mr. Lorry , breathless and confused . 
With the look fixed upon him , in her paleness and wildness , she panted out in his arms , imploringly , `` O my dear friend ! 
cried Mr. Lorry . 
cried Mr. Lorry , absolutely desperate . 
`` No , Lucie , my dear , nor you ! '' 
He got his arm round her , and held her . 
`` They are , '' Mr. Lorry whispered the words , glancing fearfully round at the locked room , `` Murdering the prisoners . 
Doctor Manette pressed his hand , hastened bareheaded out of the room , and was in the court-yard when Mr. Lorry regained the blind . 
His streaming white hair , his remarkable face , and the impetuous confidence of his manner , as he put the weapons aside like water , carried him in an instant to the heart of the concourse at the stone . 
For a few moments there was a pause , and a hurry , and a murmur , and the unintelligible sound of his voice ; and then Mr. Lorry saw him , surrounded by all , and in the midst of a line twenty men long , all linked shoulder to shoulder , and hand to shoulder , hurried out with cries of `` Live the Bastille prisoner ! 
and a thousand answering shouts . 
The soldiers ' swords are sharpened there , '' said Mr. Lorry . 
Soon afterwards the day began to dawn , and he softly detached himself from the clasping hand , and cautiously looked out again . 
The great grindstone , Earth , had turned when Mr. Lorry looked out again , and the sun was red on the court-yard . 
One of the first considerations which arose in the business mind of Mr. Lorry when business hours came round , was this : -- that he had no right to imperil Tellson 's by sheltering the wife of an emigrant prisoner under the Bank roof . 
Noon coming , and the Doctor not returning , and every minute 's delay tending to compromise Tellson 's , Mr. Lorry advised with Lucie . 
As there was no business objection to this , and as he foresaw that even if it were all well with Charles , and he were to be released , he could not hope to leave the city , Mr. Lorry went out in quest of such a lodging , and found a suitable one , high up in a removed by-street where the closed blinds in all the other windows of a high melancholy square of buildings marked deserted homes . 
To this lodging he at once removed Lucie and her child , and Miss Pross : giving them what comfort he could , and much more than he had himself . 
He left Jerry with them , as a figure to fill a doorway that would bear considerable knocking on the head , and returned to his own occupations . 
A disturbed and doleful mind he brought to bear upon them , and slowly and heavily the day lagged on with him . 
It wore itself out , and wore him out with it , until the Bank closed . 
He was again alone in his room of the previous night , considering what to do next , when he heard a foot upon the stair . 
`` Your servant , '' said Mr. Lorry . 
`` Do you know me ? '' 
For answer he repeated , without any change of emphasis , the words : `` Do you know me ? '' 
Much interested and agitated , Mr. Lorry said : `` You come from Doctor Manette ? '' 
Defarge gave into his anxious hand , an open scrap of paper . 
`` Will you accompany me , '' said Mr. Lorry , joyfully relieved after reading this note aloud , `` to where his wife resides ? '' 
Scarcely noticing , as yet , in what a curiously reserved and mechanical way Defarge spoke , Mr. Lorry put on his hat and they went down into the court-yard . 
said Mr. Lorry , who had left her in exactly the same attitude some seventeen years ago . 
`` It is she , '' observed her husband . 
inquired Mr. Lorry , seeing that she moved as they moved . 
Beginning to be struck by Defarge 's manner , Mr. Lorry looked dubiously at him , and led the way . 
She was thrown into a transport by the tidings Mr. Lorry gave her of her husband , and clasped the hand that delivered his note -- little thinking what it had been doing near him in the night , and might , but for a chance , have done to him . 
It was so much , however , to her who received it , that she turned from Defarge to his wife , and kissed one of the hands that knitted . 
`` My dear , '' said Mr. Lorry , striking in to explain ; `` there are frequent risings in the streets ; and , although it is not likely that they will ever trouble you , Madame Defarge wishes to see those whom she has the power to protect at such times , to the end that she may know them -- that she may identify them . 
I believe , '' said Mr. Lorry , rather halting in his reassuring words , as the stony manner of all the three impressed itself upon him more and more , `` I state the case , Citizen Defarge ? '' 
Defarge looked gloomily at his wife , and gave no other answer than a gruff sound of acquiescence . 
`` You had better , Lucie , '' said Mr. Lorry , doing all he could to propitiate , by tone and manner , `` have the dear child here , and our good Pross . 
`` Yes , madame , answered Mr. Lorry ; `` this is our poor prisoner 's darling daughter , and only child . '' 
`` Courage , my dear Lucie , '' said Mr. Lorry , as he raised her . 
said Mr. Lorry ; `` what is this despondency in the brave little breast ? 
But the shadow of the manner of these Defarges was dark upon himself , for all that , and in his secret mind it troubled him greatly . 
To Mr. Lorry , the Doctor communicated under an injunction of secrecy on which he had no need to dwell , that the crowd had taken him through a scene of carnage to the prison of La Force . 
As Mr. Lorry received these confidences , and as he watched the face of his friend now sixty-two years of age , a misgiving arose within him that such dread experiences would revive the old danger . 
But , he had never seen his friend in his present aspect ; he had never at all known him in his present character . 
And when Jarvis Lorry saw the kindled eyes , the resolute face , the calm strong look and bearing of the man whose life always seemed to him to have been stopped , like a clock , for so many years , and then set going again with an energy which had lain dormant during the cessation of its usefulness , he believed . 
This new life of the Doctor 's was an anxious life , no doubt ; still , the sagacious Mr. Lorry saw that there was a new sustaining pride in it . 
Nothing unbecoming tinged the pride ; it was a natural and worthy one ; but he observed it as a curiosity . 
`` All curious to see , '' thought Mr. Lorry , in his amiably shrewd way , `` but all natural and right ; so , take the lead , my dear friend , and keep it ; it could n't be in better hands . '' 
Who could that be with Mr. Lorry -- the owner of the riding-coat upon the chair -- who must not be seen ? 
As well as the prisoner could see , he and Mr. Lorry were the only men there , unconnected with the Tribunal , who wore their usual clothes , and had not assumed the coarse garb of the Carmagnole . 
After grasping the Doctor 's hand , as he stood victorious and proud before him ; after grasping the hand of Mr. Lorry , who came panting in breathless from his struggle against the waterspout of the Carmagnole ; after kissing little Lucie , who was lifted up to clasp her arms round his neck ; and after embracing the ever zealous and faithful Pross who lifted her ; he took his wife in his arms and carried her up to their rooms . 
When she was again in his arms , he said to her : `` And now speak to your father , dearest . 
She laid her head upon her father 's breast as she had laid his poor head on her own breast , long , long ago . 
He was happy in the return he had made her , he was recompensed for his suffering , he was proud of his strength . 
`` You must not be weak , my darling , '' he remonstrated ; `` do n't tremble so . 
It was not another of the dreams in which he had often come back ; he was really here . 
And yet his wife trembled , and a vague but heavy fear was upon her . 
Partly on this account , and partly to avoid a domestic spy , they kept no servant ; the citizen and citizeness who acted as porters at the court-yard gate , rendered them occasional service ; and Jerry -LRB- almost wholly transferred to them by Mr. Lorry -RRB- had become their daily retainer , and had his bed there every night . 
Mr. Lorry was expected back presently from the Banking House . 
As if Mr. Lorry had not known it for a fact , years ago , in the quiet corner in Soho , that this precious brother had spent her money and left her ! 
I arrived at Mr. Lorry 's , to his surprise , yesterday evening ; we agreed that I would not present myself elsewhere until all was well , or unless I could be useful ; I present myself here , to beg a little talk with your brother . 
This is not a good city , at this time , for you to be out in , unprotected ; and as your escort knows Mr. Barsad , I will invite him to Mr. Lorry 's with us . 
They left her at the corner of the street , and Carton led the way to Mr. Lorry 's , which was within a few minutes ' walk . 
Mr. Lorry had just finished his dinner , and was sitting before a cheery little log or two of fire -- perhaps looking into their blaze for the picture of that younger elderly gentleman from Tellson 's , who had looked into the red coals at the Royal George at Dover , now a good many years ago . 
As he took a chair himself , he supplied the link that Mr. Lorry wanted , by saying to him with a frown , `` Witness at that trial . '' 
Mr. Lorry immediately remembered , and regarded his new visitor with an undisguised look of abhorrence . 
Mr. Lorry 's business eye read in the speaker 's face that it was loss of time to dwell upon the point . 
Confused , but sensible that something might depend on his presence of mind , he commanded himself , and was silently attentive . 
`` Now , I trust , '' said Sydney to him , `` that the name and influence of Doctor Manette may stand him in as good stead to-morrow -- you said he would be before the Tribunal again to-morrow , Mr. Barsad ? 
I own to you , I am shaken , Mr. Lorry , by Doctor Manette 's not having had the power to prevent this arrest . '' 
`` He may not have known of it beforehand , '' said Mr. Lorry . 
`` But that very circumstance would be alarming , when we remember how identified he is with his son-in-law . '' 
`` That 's true , '' Mr. Lorry acknowledged , with his troubled hand at his chin , and his troubled eyes on Carton . 
-- Mr. Lorry , you know what a brute I am ; I wish you 'd give me a little brandy . '' 
`` I think , sir , '' said the spy , in the meanest manner , as he turned to Mr. Lorry , `` I may appeal to a gentleman of your years and benevolence , to put it to this other gentleman , so much your junior , whether he can under any circumstances reconcile it to his station to play that Ace of which he has spoken . 
`` I should have hoped , gentlemen both , '' said the spy , always striving to hook Mr. Lorry into the discussion , `` that your respect for my sister -- '' `` I could not better testify my respect for your sister than by finally relieving her of her brother , '' said Sydney Carton . 
Here , Mr. Lorry became aware , from where he sat , of a most remarkable goblin shadow on the wall . 
Tracing it to its source , he discovered it to be caused by a sudden extraordinary rising and stiffening of all the risen and stiff hair on Mr. Cruncher 's head . 
Here , Mr. Lorry perceived the reflexion on the wall to elongate , and Mr. Cruncher rose and stepped forward . 
Sydney Carton , who , with Mr. Lorry , had been lost in amazement at this turn of the business , here requested Mr. Cruncher to moderate and explain himself . 
While Sydney Carton and the Sheep of the prisons were in the adjoining dark room , speaking so low that not a sound was heard , Mr. Lorry looked at Jerry in considerable doubt and mistrust . 
That honest tradesman 's manner of receiving the look , did not inspire confidence ; he changed the leg on which he rested , as often as if he had fifty of those limbs , and were trying them all ; he examined his finger-nails with a very questionable closeness of attention ; and whenever Mr. Lorry 's eye caught his , he was taken with that peculiar kind of short cough requiring the hollow of a hand before it , which is seldom , if ever , known to be an infirmity attendant on perfect openness of character . 
`` Jerry , '' said Mr. Lorry . 
`` My mind misgives me much , '' said Mr. Lorry , angrily shaking a forefinger at him , `` that you have used the respectable and great house of Tellson 's as a blind , and that you have had an unlawful occupation of an infamous description . 
And wot little a man did get , would never prosper with him , Mr. Lorry . 
He 'd never have no good of it ; he 'd want all along to be out of the line , if he could see his way out , being once in -- even if it wos so . '' 
cried Mr. Lorry , rather relenting , nevertheless . 
`` Now , what I would humbly offer to you , sir , '' pursued Mr. Cruncher , `` even if it wos so , which I do n't say it is -- '' `` Do n't prevaricate , '' said Mr. Lorry . 
That , Mr. Lorry , '' said Mr. Cruncher , wiping his forehead with his arm , as an announcement that he had arrived at the peroration of his discourse , `` is wot I would respectfully offer to you , sir . 
`` That at least is true , '' said Mr. Lorry . 
He sat down in a chair on the hearth , over against Mr. Lorry . 
When they were alone , Mr. Lorry asked him what he had done ? 
Mr. Lorry 's countenance fell . 
Mr. Lorry 's eyes gradually sought the fire ; his sympathy with his darling , and the heavy disappointment of this second arrest , gradually weakened them ; he was an old man now , overborne with anxiety of late , and his tears fell . 
Though he said the last words , with a slip into his usual manner , there was a true feeling and respect both in his tone and in his touch , that Mr. Lorry , who had never seen the better side of him , was wholly unprepared for . 
Mr. Lorry had not thought of that , and he looked quickly at Carton to see if it were in his mind . 
It seemed to be ; he returned the look , and evidently understood it . 
It attracted Mr. Lorry 's eyes to Carton 's face , which was turned to the fire . 
His indifference to fire was sufficiently remarkable to elicit a word of remonstrance from Mr. Lorry ; his boot was still upon the hot embers of the flaming log , when it had broken under the weight of his foot . 
`` I forgot it , '' he said . 
Mr. Lorry 's eyes were again attracted to his face . 
Taking note of the wasted air which clouded the naturally handsome features , and having the expression of prisoners ' faces fresh in his mind , he was strongly reminded of that expression . 
said Carton , turning to him . 
`` A solitary old bachelor , '' answered Mr. Lorry , shaking his head . 
Sydney turned his eyes again upon the fire , and , after a silence of a few moments , said : `` I should like to ask you : -- Does your childhood seem far off ? 
Responding to his softened manner , Mr. Lorry answered : `` Twenty years back , yes ; at this time of my life , no . 
Carton terminated the conversation here , by rising to help him on with his outer coat ; `` but you , '' said Mr. Lorry , reverting to the theme , `` you are young . '' 
`` And of me , I am sure , '' said Mr. Lorry . 
Mr. Lorry did so , and they went down stairs and out in the streets . 
A few minutes brought them to Mr. Lorry 's destination . 
He had heard of her going to the prison every day . 
It was ten o'clock at night when he stood before the prison of La Force , where she had stood hundreds of times . 
Mr. Lorry was already out when he got back , and it was easy to surmise where the good old man was gone . 
Mr. Lorry was there , and Doctor Manette was there . 
Only her father and Mr. Lorry were with her . 
Yet , there was an air about him that was not all of pity -- that had a flush of pride in it . 
I shall never feel her weight . '' 
When he had gone out into the next room , he turned suddenly on Mr. Lorry and her father , who were following , and said to the latter : `` You had great influence but yesterday , Doctor Manette ; let it , at least , be tried . 
I had the strongest assurances that I should save him ; and I did . '' 
I have known such energy as yours do great things before now -- though never , '' he added , with a smile and a sigh together , `` such great things as this . 
If I go to Mr. Lorry 's at nine , shall I hear what you have done , either from our friend or from yourself ? '' 
Mr. Lorry followed Sydney to the outer door , and , touching him on the shoulder as he was going away , caused him to turn . 
`` I have no hope , '' said Mr. Lorry , in a low and sorrowful whisper . 
Mr. Lorry leaned his arm upon the door-post , and bowed his face upon it . 
`` Yes , yes , yes , '' returned Mr. Lorry , drying his eyes , `` you are right . 
`` At Tellson 's banking-house at nine , '' he said , with a musing face . 
Checking his steps which had begun to tend towards an object , he took a turn or two in the already darkening street , and traced the thought in his mind to its possible consequences . 
`` It is best , '' he said , finally resolved , `` that these people should know there is such a man as I here . '' 
And he turned his face towards Saint Antoine . 
Since last night he had taken nothing but a little light thin wine , and last night he had dropped the brandy slowly down on Mr. Lorry 's hearth like a man who had done with it . 
At the appointed hour , he emerged from it to present himself in Mr. Lorry 's room again , where he found the old gentleman walking to and fro in restless anxiety . 
He said he had been with Lucie until just now , and had only left her for a few minutes , to come and keep his appointment . 
Her father had not been seen , since he quitted the banking-house towards four o'clock . 
She had some faint hopes that his mediation might save Charles , but they were very slight . 
He had been more than five hours gone : where could he be ? 
Mr. Lorry waited until ten ; but , Doctor Manette not returning , and he being unwilling to leave Lucie any longer , it was arranged that he should go back to her , and come to the banking-house again at midnight . 
Mr. Lorry returned , and found no tidings of him , and brought none . 
Where could he be ? 
They were discussing this question , and were almost building up some weak structure of hope on his prolonged absence , when they heard him on the stairs . 
The instant he entered the room , it was plain that all was lost . 
Whether he had really been to any one , or whether he had been all that time traversing the streets , was never known . 
As he stood staring at them , they asked him no question , for his face told them everything . 
`` I can not find it , '' said he , `` and I must have it . 
Where is it ? '' 
His head and throat were bare , and , as he spoke with a helpless look straying all around , he took his coat off , and let it drop on the floor . 
said he , in a whimpering miserable way ; `` let me get to work . 
Receiving no answer , he tore his hair , and beat his feet upon the ground , like a distracted child . 
`` Do n't torture a poor forlorn wretch , '' he implored them , with a dreadful cry ; `` but give me my work ! 
It was so clearly beyond hope , to reason with him , or try to restore him , that -- as if by agreement -- they each put a hand upon his shoulder , and soothed him to sit down before the fire , with a promise that he should have his work presently . 
As if all that had happened since the garret time were a momentary fancy , or a dream , Mr. Lorry saw him shrink into the exact figure that Defarge had had in keeping . 
Affected , and impressed with terror as they both were , by this spectacle of ruin , it was not a time to yield to such emotions . 
`` I do not doubt it , '' answered Mr. Lorry . 
Carton stooped to pick up the coat , which lay almost entangling his feet . 
As he did so , a small case in which the Doctor was accustomed to carry the list of his day 's duties , fell lightly on the floor . 
Mr. Lorry nodded his consent . 
asked Mr. Lorry , eagerly . 
First , '' he put his hand in his coat , and took another paper from it , `` that is the certificate which enables me to pass out of this city . 
Mr. Lorry held it open in his hand , gazing in his earnest face . 
He knows that a woodsawyer , living by the prison wall , is under the control of the Defarges , and has been rehearsed by Madame Defarge as to his having seen Her '' -- he never mentioned Lucie 's name -- `` making signs and signals to prisoners . 
His manner was so fervent and inspiring , that Mr. Lorry caught the flame , and was as quick as youth . 
Dwell upon that , for she would lay her own fair head beside her husband 's , cheerfully . '' 
`` Why , then , '' said Mr. Lorry , grasping his eager but so firm and steady hand , `` it does not all depend on one old man , but I shall have a young and ardent man at my side . '' 
Though he said it with a grave smile of earnestness , and though he even put the old man 's hand to his lips , he did not part from him then . 
He helped him so far to arouse the rocking figure before the dying embers , as to get a cloak and hat put upon it , and to tempt it forth to find where the bench and work were hidden that it still moaningly besought to have . 
He walked on the other side of it and protected it to the court-yard of the house where the afflicted heart -- so happy in the memorable time when he had revealed his own desolate heart to it -- outwatched the awful night . 
Before he went away , he breathed a blessing towards it , and a Farewell . 
To Mr. Lorry , he commended them all , and explained his worldly affairs . 
That done , with many added sentences of grateful friendship and warm attachment , all was done . 
He never thought of Carton . 
His mind was so full of the others , that he never once thought of him . 
When he lay down on his straw bed , he thought he had done with this world . 
But , it beckoned him back in his sleep , and showed itself in shining forms . 
Free and happy , back in the old house in Soho -LRB- though it had nothing in it like the real house -RRB- , unaccountably released and light of heart , he was with Lucie again , and she told him it was all a dream , and he had never gone away . 
A pause of forgetfulness , and then he had even suffered , and had come back to her , dead and at peace , and yet there was no difference in him . 
Another pause of oblivion , and he awoke in the sombre morning , unconscious where he was or what had happened , until it flashed upon his mind , `` this is the day of my death ! '' 
Thus , had he come through the hours , to the day when the fifty-two heads were to fall . 
And now , while he was composed , and hoped that he could meet the end with quiet heroism , a new action began in his waking thoughts , which was very difficult to master . 
He had never seen the instrument that was to terminate his life . 
How high it was from the ground , how many steps it had , where he would be stood , how he would be touched , whether the touching hands would be dyed red , which way his face would be turned , whether he would be the first , or might be the last : these and many similar questions , in no wise directed by his will , obtruded themselves over and over again , countless times . 
Neither were they connected with fear : he was conscious of no fear . 
Rather , they originated in a strange besetting desire to know what to do when the time came ; a desire gigantically disproportionate to the few swift moments to which it referred ; a wondering that was more like the wondering of some other spirit within his , than his own . 
The hours went on as he walked to and fro , and the clocks struck the numbers he would never hear again . 
After a hard contest with that eccentric action of thought which had last perplexed him , he had got the better of it . 
The worst of the strife was over . 
Twelve gone for ever . 
He had been apprised that the final hour was Three , and he knew he would be summoned some time earlier , inasmuch as the tumbrils jolted heavily and slowly through the streets . 
Therefore , he resolved to keep Two before his mind , as the hour , and so to strengthen himself in the interval that he might be able , after that time , to strengthen others . 
Walking regularly to and fro with his arms folded on his breast , a very different man from the prisoner who had walked to and fro at La Force , he heard One struck away from him , without surprise . 
Devoutly thankful to Heaven for his recovered self-possession , he thought , `` There is but another now , '' and turned to walk again . 
Footsteps in the stone passage , outside the door . 
Take him yourself to the court-yard you know of , place him yourself in the carriage , show him yourself to Mr. Lorry , tell him yourself to give him no restorative but air , and to remember my words of last night and his promise of last night , and drive away ! '' 
Jarvis Lorry . 
`` It is Jarvis Lorry who has replied to all the previous questions . 
It is Jarvis Lorry who has alighted and stands with his hand on the coach door , replying to a group of officials . 
`` Behold your papers , Jarvis Lorry , countersigned . '' 
`` These are again the words of Jarvis Lorry , as he clasps his hands , and looks upward . 
asks Mr. Lorry , looking out at window . 
The night comes on dark . 
He moves more ; he is beginning to revive , and to speak intelligibly ; he thinks they are still together ; he asks him , by his name , what he has in his hand . 
Now , when the journey of the travelling coach , at that very moment waiting for the completion of its load , had been planned out last night , the difficulty of taking Miss Pross in it had much engaged Mr. Lorry 's attention . 
She saw a tight , hard , wiry woman before her , as Mr. Lorry had seen in the same figure a woman with a strong hand , in the years gone by . 
