Afterreflecting a good deal upon the subject , my dear children , I have come to the conclusion , that , if I interweave with the history , which I have promised to you , some account of myself and Archibald , of whom you have heard me relate so many things that made your nerves shiver , as with electricity , when you were mere boys , it will do much toward perpetuating the history of our family , and keeping your attention alive to the order of events . 
I find a tradition among us that we are of Scotch extraction ; and , by looking into the records of our oldest colony , as Plymouth , you will find a constant reference to the name of Oadley , as to one of influence and authority . 
the wife of Jo `` nathan Oadley -- whose husband has signed a paper `` with his own blood '' -LRB- a literal fact , my children , for , in the feeling of the time , no solemnity , and I might say , no superstition was spared -RRB- `` calling down the `` anger of God upon his house , and his wife , and child `` ren , if he kept it not -- shall she be the first to `` laugh his obligation to scorn -- give his household to `` destruction , and her husband 's name to dishonour . 
My infancy , boyhood , and manhood too , I might say , were spent , much as they are with most of the world , who are born apart from all but a few sober , plain dealing country neighbours ; -- for I was nearly twenty-two , and probably the stoutest fellow of my age in the whole country ; and Archibald , a poor weakly creature , about twenty , when the war of the revolution broke out , and gave to our characters , and that of my father , a strange , unexpected power , revealing many deeply hidden properties , that might have been , and no doubt , would have been buried for ever , but for the events that I am now about to relate . 
We were about fourteen miles from the high road , over which our countrymen were afterwards hunted by Sir William Howe ; and already we had heard `` the drum beat at dead of night , '' and seen , away on the verge of the horizon , the red light of farm houses , set fire to , by the royal banditti : and once I remember , when my cousin Arthur , a fine , free spirited fellow , and Archibald and I , were out upon a high hill , late in the afternoon , we heard a heavy cannonading in the east , and were soon after told that there had been a bloody affair , with some of the outposts , that Sir Henry Clinton had established to protect his foraging parties . 
-- There was another deep silence , of some minutes , when the old man groaned aloud , as if his heart were in travail -- Archibald arose , and went to him , and put his hand upon his shoulder , in that silent , strange way , which was so natural to him , even when a boy , and lifting his deep blue eyes , with a melancholy look of determination , said -- `` Surely , sir , youdo not complain of these things ? '' 
-- said Archibald , retreating two or three paces , folding his arms , and looking him in the face , as if he thought that he had not heard him aright -- `` I know what you are thinking , Archibald , '' said my father : `` and I can not blame you . 
said my brother , his pale face growing still paler , and his slender form shivering with the depth and excess of some inward and unknown feeling -- and then added , in a manner that awed me , as much as if a dumb creature had suddenly found his tongue -- for such had been the melancholy , deep and solemn abstraction of his nature , from the age of about eighteen , that we had learnt never to attempt any conversation with him , leaving him alone and unmolested to his thought , as a poor distempered creature , whom it was a pity to worry in his humours : -- and now , when he broke out upon us , much after the following fashion , our amazement held us speechless ; and that of my father was dashed with a feeling of shame , that even I could see , for the red blood shot over his temples , and up through his bald forehead , showing that he felt the rebuke of Archibald -- even to his old heart . 
-- nowin the time of his tribulation , when all that is dearest to us , our home and Country , is about to be laid waste with fire and sword , -- they that have sworn to stand by George Washington , though Heaven itself rained fire upon their heads -- -LRB- your own words Sir -RRB- -- are the first to abandon him -- withhold their succour -- drive off their cattle to the woods -- bury their provisions -- and refuse the currency of the country -- nay more ! 
Nor were we less so -- my cousin Arthur and I exchanged two or three glances , and the fire streamed from his black eyes , as he ran up to Archibald , and seized him by both his hands , and shook them , for a whole minute , as if he would shake them off , trying two or three times , but in vain , to speak -- and at last turning away , and wiping his eyes -- without uttering a word . 
-- `` Archibald , '' said my father , rising majestically , and coming forward to meet him , `` it is hard to abide the upbraiding of a child , our own child , our youngest born '' -- Archibald 's head drooped , and the red heat went all over it -- like the light of a furnace . 
It was a whole minute before Archibald replied , and his chin worked up and down , all the while of his preparation , and a mortal lividness overspread his face , while his long , dark eyelashes gave an animated sadness and shadow to his beautiful eyes -- and when he did reply , it was , by lifting his head , slowly , to our father 's , planting his foot , and compressing his folded arms upon his chest , as if to keep down a rebellion there -- `` Shall I speak the truth ? '' 
said he ; `` assuredly '' answered my father , while Arthur pressed up to me , and whispered , -- `` what possesses the creature ? 
`` Well then , '' continued Archibald , in a voice that was just audible ? 
My father shook his head , but embraced Archibald , and kissed his white forehead a dozen times at least , before he answered . 
`` I am proud of your spirit , Archy , '' said he -- `` but I can not say much for your wisdom . 
cried Archibald , pressing upon him . 
As he said this , he took down an old rifle that lay athwart the smoked pannel work , over the fire place , and leant upon it , with a face all on fire -- but my father put out his spirit immediately , with a smile , as he said -- `` No , my boy , Washington would hardly thank me for an armyof such striplings . '' 
Archibald bit his lip . 
`` Three of us '' said he , `` are stout men -- you , and John , and Arthur -- and -- '' `` Arthur may do as he pleases ; '' said my father , `` and as for John -- from this moment , he hath my consent to shoulder his musquet -- '' `` And join the army ! '' 
shouted Archibald , leaping from the floor -- `` O , dolet me go with him -- I -- I -- I am not very strong , but I can -- '' `` No , Archibald , I can not part with you . 
`` The best way to harden it , father , '' said he -- `` Your temper too unsocial and passionate -- '' `` The best way to cure that -- '' `` Silence ! 
They are strong handsome fellows , and will work their way through the battle , I 'll warrant them , but as for you , the first thing that I should hear of you , would be , that you had been run away with by your own horse , or trodden to death in the onset -- no -- You shall be a minister , Archibald -- a minister of the Gospel . '' 
Archibald looked at him , a moment , as if -- I hardly dare to say what , for he was the most affectionate creature in the world , and till that hour , I had never heard him speak a loud word in the presence of my father -- he had always set apart by himself , musing all the day long , over some history , or drawing : -- but it did appear to me that , all at once , his soul felt new strength , and that , before the sound of my father 's voice had died away , declaring that he should be a minister of the gospel -- he had determined to be torn in pieces , first , by wild horses -- but he bowed his head reverentially , to my father , -LRB- who left us for awhile , -RRB- and went into the darkest corner of the room ; -- where he stood for a whole hour , without opening his lips . 
I felt my heart stop -- partly with shame , and partly with fear -- till he repeated the question , and I saw Archibald 's eyes flashing , impatiently , for my answer -- `` whenever you please , Sir , '' said I -- though I would have given the world to be out of the affair . 
My voice followed his , but so faintly , that it sounded like an echo , only -- while Archibald merely locked his hands , and uplifted them , to heaven -- much to the delight of the old gentleman , who winked at us , and smiled , as if it were some timely revelation from above -- `` yes ! 
I know not whether I was born with a more timorous heart than other men ; but I have been ready to believe , when I have seen their indifference to matters of life and death , where we have stood together , ankle deep in blood -- their cold , phlegmatick , habitual disregard of what made my heart feel , sometimes , as if it were turning to stone within me , and my flesh crawl -- that they were fashioned originally , and by constitution , of sterner material than myself -- and yet , I have seen Archibald too , pale as death , in the awful stillness that preceded the first shot , while they went on , immoveable and solid as a phalanx of machinery , with no sweat upon their foreheads , no prayer upon their lips , no knocking at their ribs . 
Hiscourage was indisputable -- yet he was abundantly more agitated than myself . 
`` Well '' said Archibald , joining us with a prouder step than common , `` you are harnessing , for the war , I see , my brave brother ; and you too , cousin Arthur -- have you made up your minds , never to return -- never to lay down your arms -- never ! 
what 's all this -- by heaven , it can not be '' -- -LRB- catching Arthur by the arm , and turning him partly round , for he was stooping , as if to tighten the girth of his horse , but had remained there rather too long a time for the impatient temper of Archibald -RRB- -- `` tears ! 
Archibald shook his head , and smiled . 
Arthur , though I attempted to avoid it , immediately told him ; and as he did , I could perceive the under lip of Archibald , violently compressed , and his brow knitting with emotion -- but my father did not change countenance . 
`` Not so bad a shot , neither , '' said Archibald , putting his hand to my face -- `` an inch or two more , and the hall would have done your business -- you will have to get a lock shorn , on the other side of your head . '' 
Archibald came to me , and took the bridle in his hand for a moment , as I was turning away -- and then let it go again , reluctantly , as if he had intended to bid me a farewell , -- but his heart had failed him -- `` But Archy -- how is this ? '' 
`` No Sir '' -- said Archibald , throwing down his eyes , `` my horse might run away with me , you know . '' 
`` I did feelit father ; '' said Archibald -- walking away . 
-- His eyes flashed fire , I remember , as we set off at full gallop , for the high road ; and , in less than twenty minutes , we saw him , stretching like a hunter over a distant elevation ; after which -- for he only took off his hat , stood up in the stirrups , for a moment , and waved it without stopping -- after which , we saw no more of him , till about nine that evening , when he came suddenly upon us , with nearly twenty well mounted young fellows , upon the best horses in the country -- rattling at his heels , like so many mad devils -- they almost rode us down , -- for , with all our efforts , we had been able to muster but five . 
` How he sits ! ' 
cried Arthur , pointing to him , as he rode leisurely about , while we were all trying to form . 
-- The moon shone gallantly upon us , and really , had there been a trumpet there , and an enemy , we should have given a good account of him , notwithstanding our inexperience , and wretched equipment . 
`` I am thinking , '' said Archibald , leaping his horse at full speed , over a ditch , where all the others halted and boggled -- and joining us -- `` I am thinking that , if we ride over to the plain , yonder , -- the musterground -- -- that we may spend an hour or two , profitably , in manœuvring against tomorrow -- '' Arthur smiled , but , in that spirit of fellowship , which all men have , under excitement , we rode on , renewing our acquaintance with some of the horsemen about us , and making it with such as were strangers -- they were fine fellows indeed , and when we were afterward counted off into fours , and sixes , and the order was given to gallop , -- I thought that I had never seen so handsome a troop of yeomanry . 
Archibald had ridden hard , I am sure , that day , for the mettlesome creature that he rode , kept throwing down her head , and snorting continually , when she stopped , as if hurt in her wind . 
`` My friends , '' said Archibald -- the moon shone full upon his white forehead , as he uncovered it , and wiped away the sweat , -- `` it is now time to separate . 
The proposition was agreed to , and he threw us into line ; counted us off into sections ; wheeled in and out , gallopped , and charged . 
Archibald reined up for a moment , and looked after him , in surprise -- `` not the way to his uncles ? '' 
-- said he -- `` No , '' I replied , well knowing where he had gone . 
-- `` I believe not '' -- Archibald looked at me for a moment , as if about to speak -- but he did not , and then put a head for some time . 
-- `` What say you , '' said he , abruptly -- `` shall we ride over to Arnauld 's . '' 
-- `` By all means , '' I cried , leaping forward and abreast of him , it is only a mile or two -- and I shouldlike to see Lucia , before I go . '' 
-- Yes , '' said Archibald , stooping over the neck of his horse and feeling the curb -- `` it would be well , you are a favorite there brother ; and it would be rather unfriendly to go away for so long a -- brother your stirrups are too long -- shorten them -- you can never sit firmly in that way -- throw your feet home . '' 
he replied , warmly , -- `` once or twice the horse fell withme . '' 
Archibald put his hand gently upon mine , for a minute , and sat listening . 
-- But he said nothing -- he only drew a long breath , and turned aside his face -- There was Lucia , lolling upon the sofa , and singing away , with all her heart and soul , as if her very breath were melody -- so sweet and natural was the modulation of the tone . 
Archibald made no reply , but threw himself from the saddle , and struck the gate with his whip handle . 
`` Oh , my dear , dearfriend , '' cried Lucia , running to Archibald , and putting her hands into his -- `` how glad I am that youare here . '' 
-- said he , colouring a little . 
said I -- but before I could say more , a look from Archibald cut me short . 
There was a momentary embarrassment in all our faces -- for I dreaded to mention , that I had seen him within an hour or two ; and still less , would I have told her , where -- for there was something , rather mysterious -- and , as my father thought , dangerous in the movements , and authority of Mr. Arnauld -- but it soon wore off , and we joined , pleasantly , in conversation . 
`` I heard your voice , I believe , '' said Archibald , looking at Lucia , `` as we approached . '' 
Archibald and I exchanged a look with each other , and smiled . 
said her mother , glancing at Archibald -- `` your countenance , is more than commonly serious . 
`` My brother , '' said Archibald , `` will join the army , to-morrow . '' 
`` Well then , both of us will remain , '' said Archibald , drawing up his chair to the corner , and entering into conversation , as if his thought were any where in this world , but in that room . 
said Mrs. Arnauld to him . 
Archibald turned slowly round , and smiled rather bitterly , I thought ; and Lucia sat more erect , for awhile -- and then leaned forward , as if to catch every word , and tone , and look . 
`` For two or three reasons , '' said Archibald , firmly -- `` In the first place , I am not twenty-one -- not my own man -- in the next place , I am to be a parson -- a parson ! 
I could perceive , that Mrs. Arnauld looked astonished , and Lucia terrified ; and I -- I confess , that I should have been equally so , had I not seen the late developement of his character , before my father ; for his irony was a naked blade -- it went to the heart . 
Here Lucia 's hair fell -- and she consumed ten minutes , at least , in adjusting it , all the time keeping her beautiful eyes turned in the direction where he sat , with his fingers playing , involuntarily , upon the next chair , without moving a limb , or uttering a sound . 
-- It could not be -- no -- Clara Arnauld was not a woman to feel at the heart -- and least of all -- for such a man as I -- uninformed -- inexperienced and -- We were in our saddles by early day light , the next morning , and trotted slowly , past the windows of the chamber , where we knew that the young ladies slept -- a white hand stirred the curtain -- nothing more -- I could have sworn that it was Clara 's -- but on looking into Archibald 's eyes -- I was sure that he thought it Lucia 's . 
`` By heaven , Archibald , how did you teach her that ? '' 
`` Of the most charming creature in the world , '' said I , feeling every word that I uttered -- `` Yes , yes , brother '' -- responded Archibald -- stooping on the off side of his mare , and turning the stirrup , for his foot ; `` yes -- but I can not well bear to talk of her now '' -- But , I replied , unwilling to let the conversation die away so soon -- we were just approaching the highest ground in the neighbourhood , from which we could have a view of twenty miles all about us -- `` I do not like her coquetry . '' 
-- said Archibald , abruptly -- `` no , '' I `` nor that womanish pedantry and continued -- . '' 
-- said he , rivetting his eyes upon me , in astonishment -- `` what the devil do you mean ? 
`` O -- I do not hope to convince youof it , such a favourite as you are '' -- -LRB- He coloured to the eyes -RRB- -- and that vile habit of sprinkling all she says , with poetry , and French and Italian -- a smattering of '' -- `` I 'll tell you what , brother , '' said he , riding up to me -- `` I ca n't put up with this . 
-- said Archibald -- impatiently , and stooping from the saddle -- `` what are you talking about ? '' 
He drew a long breath , and reached me his hand , with a smile that went to my heart -- `` I am a little absent , I believe , '' -- said he -- `` you know that I am apt to be thoughtful , and just now '' -- -LRB- he appeared to forget himself , for a moment , in another revery -- but started again , at the sound of two or three shot , that appeared to be fired in the valley below : -- when the mare plunged suddenly , and had well nigh dislodged him on the spot . 
`` I deserved it , '' said he , reining her up firmly , and adjusting himself to the seat -- `` tame as she is , I ought never to forget what she has been -- a horseman will always mind saddle , rein and stirrup , -LRB- no matter what he is upon -RRB- as if he expected to be run away with , every moment -- Ha ! 
`` That was a pistol shot '' said I -- `` O yes , I dare say it was , '' he answered ; -- `` our troop are amusing themselves at a mark . 
cried Archibald , striking the rowels into his mare , and galloping directly to the spot -- `` Madman ! '' 
-- He heeded me not , his hat flew off , and it was in vain for me ever to think of overtaking him . 
Down came his comrades then , with a loud outcry upon the conqueror ; but , with a presence of mind that dismayed me , he wheeled upon them , a full dozen as they were , and leaped a broad ditch , exchanging cut after cut , as he passed , and giving point , with a precision that I never saw equalled at the ring ; it was then that I saw his object -- two only of the squadron could follow him -- and there was Archibald , on the other side , shouting with all his might , as if succour were at hand -- `` come on , boys ! 
-- The troopers reined up , and loaded their pistols -- and I , desperate with apprehension , rode round to join my brother , designing to pass by the dead man and make prize of his sword -- and his pistols too , if possible , for about a hundred yards from where he lay , his horse had tumbled , and was yet struggling in his furniture : but I had not gone half way to the place -- though the flanks of my poor horse ran down with blood , and I thought that I never should get to it -- when there was another shout , a clashing of swords , and a rapid discharge of pistols -- and the same moment , Archibald 's mare darted by me -- the bridle broken , and stirrups ringing -- O ! 
-- I never shall forget that pang -- ` poor Archibald ! ' 
-- I could not -- I threw myself from the saddle -- plucked the sword from the dead hand of the horseman -- and rode to the spot where I had seen Archibald last . 
He was safe -- thank heaven , he was safe -- his forehead was cut a little -- and the blood was running down his naked arms -- this is all that I remember -- for a bugle sounded , in our rear -- the fellows halted in chase , one after the other , like a line of videttes -- and seeing horsemen mustering in all directions , obeyed the call , and abandoned the chase . 
said I -- throwing a sword to Archibald , as he stood over the stranger , wrapping up his wounds , with the shirt that he had torn off from his own body -- ` there ! 
` This comes , ' said my father , sternly , to Archibald , who stood before him , holding Arthur by the hand -- ` of your disobedience . 
said Archibald -- ` twenty when they broke in ' -- said my father -- baring his brawny arm to the shoulder -- it was gashed to the bone in a dozen or more places -- ` twenty ! 
-- ' I looked at him , awestruck at the preternatural expression of his wrath -- and wondered at the melancholy , dreadful aspect of my mother -- ` Mary -- Mary -- said Archibald -- gasping for breath ; did she come -- was she there -- ah ! ' 
My father put him aside -- my mother shook from head to foot , and Arthur dropped Archibald 's hand , and stood -- Oh ! 
Archibald was the first to speak -- ` she is dead then , I -- I hope , ' said he . 
said Archibald -- while Arthur locked his hands , and lifted them , devoutly , to the skies ; and my mother , as if touched by some horrid thought all at once -- threw herself into my father 's arms , and buried her face in his bosom -- he repulsed her , and shuddered -- and then , as if wondering at himself , embraced her , for a whole minute , in silence -- and then led her away -- while she covered her face with her hands -- and moved like a woman , that God hath more than widowed -- her very attitude was that of desperation and horrour . 
-- Archibald took out his watch , with a calmness that awed me -- bent the sword upon which he leant , so that the hilt almost touched the floor -- exchanged a look , the import of which I did not suspect , till his absence had began to alarm us -- with Arthur -- and stepped out of the room . 
-- ` Oadley , ' said Arnauld , going up to him , with a look of deep terrour , ` I dread to hear your reply -- you are not a man to be lightly disturbed -- what has happened to the poor innocent ? ' 
-- tell me -- tellme , Oadley ! ' 
-- you know what I would say , Oadley -- tell me but that -- that , Oadley , and I will lay down my life at your bidding -- forgive you -- and -- ' The tears gushed out of his eyes , and he sobbed like a child , and stood with locked hand , waiting the reply . 
My father knew them immediately , and after embracing Archibald , who was so weak , from one or two flesh wounds , and his natural delicacy , that he could hardly sit on his horse , began to move his arms , as if he were about to take a terrible vengeance upon some one . 
said he impatiently ; the blood gushing from his nostrils . 
` And the scoundrel that Archibald shot , said a second , because he happened to have a handkerchief about his neck , that he thought was his mother 's . ' 
` Had he a red collar ? ' 
` Yes , Sir , ' was the reply , ` Archibald 's got the handkerchief now . ' 
Archibald pulled it out of his bosom -- it was wet through and through , soaking in crimson -- he turned away , sick as death from it ; it dropped from his fingers -- and he shuddered . 
Was it you -- Archibald -- wasit you ! 
did you shoot him dead -- dead , Archibald ? '' 
My brother shook his head -- looked at his red fingers -- and staggered to the wall . 
Archibald arose -- fell upon his neck -- and uttered some low sounds . 
Archibald could support it no longer -- he fainted away upon the spot . 
said my father -- ` Not a hair of his head is hurt , ' said the speaker -- ` he and Archy were the first that came up with the chaps , taking their fire , foolishly enough , as he said , himself , afterward , all along , from right to left , as they passed : -- and they were clattering away , at a devil of a rate , before we could get up -- your d -- d blood horses , farmer Oadley , are too many guns for us . ' 
said his companion -- chucking him under the ribs -- ` well enough in retreat , hey ? ' 
-- said the other -- ` my bits chattered , when he passed us , at the heels of that devilish mare of Oadley 's ; -- he looked like a dead man , broke loose in day light -- and breaking his neck to get back again . ' 
` He was in a fair way to get back again , dead or alive , when I saw him last , ' said the little fellow -- ` but let us look him up . ' 
there was one ruffian , with a red collar , whom I had pursued for ten minutes over burning rafters , through a whirl wind of fire , and clouds of smoke and darkness -- but could never reach him -- but -- a bullet did -- Archibald dealt a blow for his mother , -- I -- I -- your mother had fled -- and I found her utterly powerless and insensible -- I -- ' ` I can tell you no more -- something alarmed the sentinel -- for after firing his pistol , which was unheeded by the troop , he rode in with a loud outcry , and the whole band were in their saddles directly . 
He arose abruptly as he ended this , and walked before me , into the house -- talking all the way to himself , as if unconscious of my presence . 
We found our guest one of the strangest creatures in the world , altogether agreeable , and full of careless , self possession ; and , though he chose to call himself Clinton , we had good reason to believe that his name was not Clinton ; and , that he was an aid of the commander in chief ; for , at the end of about two weeks , after several attempts to write , which , were successively made and abandoned , he called Archibald , who had become a great favourite with him , to his side , where he sat , lolling , with his sleeve ripped up , and looped all the way , to his shoulder , and his right arm in a sling ; and , the following conversation ensued , between them . 
` Hither , Dapper , ' said he , to Archibald , carelessly , ` I want your assistance . ' 
Archibald , lifted his eyes , slowly , to his face -- as if , I believed at first , that they meant to smile at the man 's impudence ; but , then a deeper hue came to them , as if it were well to put a stop to it , before it should be too late . 
` Colonel Clinton , ' said Archibald , calmly , raising his eyes to the Colonel 's face , ` my name is Archibald Oadley . ' 
` With all my heart , ' said Archibald , seating himself , immediately , at the table ; while Lucia hurried , with a petulant activity , to get the writing materials before him ; occasionally glancing at the noble countenance of Clinton , and then , at the richly , delicate , but singularly intelligent one , of Archibald -- in pity , I thought -- and perhaps , for I did not like the compassionate trembling of her lips -- nor the colour , that came , and went , so rapidly , about her temples -- it was too like the expression of disappointment , and even shame . 
Archibald , bowed -- dropped his pen again , into the ink . 
Archibald , nodded . 
` Damn it , ' said Clinton , after wriggling backward and forward , in his seat , for a whole minute -- ` it is like drawing your teeth , ' ` Not mine , if you please , ' said Archibald , lifting his pleasant eyes , again to his face . 
Archibald shook his head ; and , Clinton continued -- ` for he was never able to read one of my letters , yet -- stop -- there 's the date -- put that down -- whew ! ' 
` O , that I did , half an hour ago , ' said Archibald . 
Archibald took up the pen , again , with a trembling hand , and wrote the direction , biting his lip , as he did so -- there was a strange variety of emotion in his face . 
` Yes sir , ' said Archibald , reaching it to him . 
-- Archibald read as follows : -- ` -- New Jersey , 14th November , 1776 ... Dear general ... George R. Clinton ... A. D. C. ... To his Excellency , George Washington . ' 
-- Archibald followed his directions -- folded , sealed and directed it . 
cried Archibald , seeing that the thoughtless creature was in downright earnest -- ` would you really presume to send such a letter as that to George Washington ? ' 
-- ` Three things , ' said Archibald -- ` what are they ? ' 
` Well , ' said Archibald , shrugging his shoulders -- ` even this is better than hearing of him -- it is seeing him at second hand -- seeing one that has seen him -- what kind of a man is he ? ' 
said Archibald . 
` Oh , of women you mean , ' -- answered Clinton , glancing at Lucia , who turned away her face with some little agitation , looking sideways at Archibald , as she did so . 
Can not you tell me , Archibald , of some blessed creature , ' -LRB- his tone grew deeper -- and the father glanced at him with a look of alarm , as if he would read his very soul -RRB- , -- ` that could love a soldier all the day long -- watch with him all the night long -- live with him -- die with him -- and never write him a long letter . ' 
` Why , to tell you the truth , ' replied Clinton , carelessly throwing his left arm over the chair in which Lucia sat , so that his finely turned hand hung down by her shoulder -- and touched it , I believe , in some subsequent movement , for she changed her position , and I saw his eyes flash , with a deeper expression of meaning , than I had ever seen before -- and Archibald saw it too , I thought -- for he held his face lower , and began a second time , at the top of the page , over which he was poring : -- ` to tell you the truth , that would be a needless preliminary -- it would be well enough to be sure , to have her deaf and dumb at first . ' 
` It might be a blessing to her , ' said Lucia pettishly , in a whispering tone , meant for Archibald 's ear , but he would not appear to have heard it . 
` You would break her heart perhaps , ' said Archibald , without raising his eyes . 
-- -LRB- Archibald threw down his book , and sat upright -- but my father 's eye fell , with a serious rebuke upon him , before he had time to interfere , and he gradually sunk into the same position again . -RRB- 
Yes Mr. Ar-chi-bald -- please to add , that I am recruiting -- a little injured in my right arm -- and that , if he will order sergeant Jasper into this quarter , with four of my old troop , we will be ready , at a moment 's warning , to cover any of his foraging parties , or cut up any of the enemy 's , till there is an opportunity for more serious operations -- just as he pleases -- for pastime till -- ' Archibald wrote the very words down , and read them , to him . 
-- O , no -- dead or disabled , he knows well , that I mustbe , to be absent for a whole day -- yet , you may as well say , Archibald , that I have heard of the enemy , and were afraid of their cutting off my videttes , in detail -- put it in your own language -- and , that I was taken prisoner -- and -- ' ` Taken prisoner ! ' 
Archibald shook his head , and Clinton continued -- ` say that I was taken prisoner , and rescued , by -- ' Archibald , threw down his pen , angrily , and Lucia turned about , her beautiful face all in a glow , with her passionate enthusiasm ; while my father leaned half out of his chair , dropping the hand of my poor mother -- and there was a breathless silence -- ` by -- by -- I am not permitted to tell whom , or how . 
-- and , add , if you please , Tinder-box , that , if his excellency pleases , I will stay here , till I am wanted -- or , will -- to protect the neighbourhood -- ' Archibald finished the letter ; sealed it , and received a hearty shake of the hand , from Clinton , who lifted his dark , expostulating eyes , to him , and said something , in a low voice . 
` No , ' said Archibald , firmly -- ` no , Colonel , remember your word -- I shall hold you to it . ' 
it seemed as if every voice had united in the acclamation ; while Archibald , poor Archibald , stood looking , with his high soul sitting in his forehead , on Lucia and Clinton ; as if -- heaven only knows , if the thought be a true one ; but , so it appeared to me -- as if that burst of enthusiasm , in Clinton , had wrecked hishappiness , forever -- for , he went up to him ; took his hand , and bowed his head upon it ; and sat down , in silence , as if willing to give up -- all -- all , that was dearest to him , in the wide world , for the loud , and gallant testimony , that he had just borne to Washington . 
Lucia saw the action ; and a strange , tumultuous light flashed over her white forehead ; stirring her very hair , with the rush of her blood ; while her eyes filled , and she came nearer to Archibald , as if she would have comforted him , if she could -- but , he carefully avoided her eyes , and she was unable to speak . 
said I , as I sat upon my horse , near enough to the open window to hear and see all that passed within the room , while my horse reared at the flash of Archibald 's sword . 
-- As he spoke , the mare leaped -- the line broke , and she dashed among them , like a mad creature -- Archibald 's weapon swinging at his wrist , by the sword knot , and wounding her at every plunge . 
I now saw the reason -- Archibald had lost the stirrup , and was almost upon the neck of the mare , who ran straight across the field , turning neither to the right nor left -- for hedge nor ditch , nor tree . 
at the very moment when we expected to see Archibald struck from the saddle -- his brains dashed out , we saw the sword fly from his wrist -- the mare turn a little aside , and Archibald spring to the ground -- bring her about , in a broad sweep , and leap upon her back again , like a circus rider . 
-- Archibald rode up -- flushed with heat , and terrour -- and the mare covered with blood . 
Archibald could have borne any thing better -- ` poor Hetty -- woa ! 
poor creature , ' said he -- -LRB- staunching the wound , while the flesh of the animal shivered , at every touch -- and the blood flew in his face like rain -RRB- -- ` I 'd rather be wounded myself -- but -- woa ! 
I knew that something must have happened , and it 's well for her , ' he added , turning to us -- his white forehead all spattered over with her blood -- that she has a good excuse for such deviltry -- or . ' 
said I. ` Cut her throat upon the spot , ' he answered , in the same tone . 
` His very nature has changed , ' said Lucia , as she stood leaning upon her sister , pale as death , her black hair shadowing half her face . 
Archibald continued patting the neck of his mare , while her blood-shot eyes -- swelling nostrils -- agitated breath -- and quivering limbs -- showed that she was not wholly subdued . 
-- I will be your commander till a better one can be had -- in the meantime , there is Archibald -- what say you ? 
shall he be your captain ? ' 
cried the whole troop -- ` Oadley forever ! 
-- Oadley ! 
hourra for Oadley ? ' 
Archibald looked up -- all the blood of his heart rushed to his face -- and then retreated , as suddenly -- leaving him white as a drowned man -- and his eyes filled . 
Not a human being had expected it -- not one -- and from none had the thought been further , I am sure , than from him . 
He went to my father , looked him in the face -- and then round to all the troop , man by man , without uttering a word -- they all understood him -- and some turned away their faces -- some passed the back of their right hand over their eyes -- and filed off , one after the other , as if they had not the heart to interrupt such a silence . 
` Into your saddle Oadley , -LRB- to me -RRB- and stand by your brother . 
` Mount every man of you , this moment -- put yourself under the command of that young fellow , that you see there -LRB- pointing to Archibald , who was leaning forward , and adjusting the curb of his mare -- -RRB- -- ` there arered coats in the way -- follow close upon them -- but hazard nothing : -- on your lives , do not bring them to battle , unless you are two to one . 
I rode near Clayton , and I observed that he kept his eye , with an uneasy , doubtful expression upon my brother ; and at last , as if impatient to put his heart at rest , spurred up abreast of Jasper , and asked him some questions , to which Jasper returned a reply , with a loud oath -- and then there was a contemptuous movement of Clayton 's lip , that made my blood boil , as he renewed his observation of Archibald . 
` This will never do , ' said Archibald ; ` they may be leading us into ambush -- we must take higher ground , and always be prepared to come to battle , or not , as we please . 
I could not but look behind for a moment -- where I saw Jasper 's red face shining , with the honest exultation of his heart -- his little eyes twinkling , as if Archibald had been his own son : and there was Clayton , now -- I began to like him -- keeping his horse 's head in line ; and whenever he could get an opportunity , trying to adjust himself to the saddle , and sit like Archibald . 
that timid and peaceful men , who had never seen the red blood run trickling from the bright blade of a butcher knife , without a quick trepidation of the heart -- youthful , too , like Archibald , and Arthur , and myself , in the very spring tide of our gentleness and compassion -- or grown old , like my father and Arnauld , in the beautiful hushed tranquillity of a farmer 's home , that had never seen the gleam of a broad-sword , nor heard the bugle call -- nor the neigh of cavalry , nor the loud , quaking reverberation of heaven and earth , beneath the tread of horses and horsemen , rushing to battle -- that such men should sit as we sat , breathing hard , and straining , like blood hounds in the slip -- all our veins swelling with impatience for the outcry of death ! 
And my father too -- I saw him only for a moment -- after the enemy broke through our little squadron -- riding , with all his might , breast to breast with Archibald , and -- O , there are passions and passionate thoughts in the human heart -- veins and vessels , innumerable and delicate -- unseen and hidden -- unknown and unsuspected -- till a preparation of blood and fire hath been poured into it . 
-- The enemy grew stronger and stronger , as he approached -- I saw Jasper throw a troubled look at Archibald -- and the next moment , Arnauld spurred up to him at a headlong speed , pointing to another party , that were just dashing athwart the creek -- one after the other -- about a mile off . 
Several of our men fell ; two or three of the horses broke out of line , or ran back upon their fellows -- and Archibald , who had never been apprised of this mode of attack , appeared confounded for a moment -- when , just at that time , a covered wall , in our front , which we had not seen till then , and against which the snow had drifted , brought up the front rank of the enemy , as they were preparing to wheel upon us and to follow up the charge with their swords -- and a universal confusion and embarrassment prevailed . 
cried Archibald -- ` now is the time ! 
In the middle of this -- the whole field , as far as I could see covered with horse and horsemen -- battling in their saddles -- on foot -- or rolling over on the ground , like so many gladiators -- I saw one rank , the only unbroken one , rush by us -- and I had just time to see all the faces in it that were dearest to me -- when Archibald 's voice was heard again shouting -- ` form ! 
-- he was just able to show that he knew me -- to put out his hands to me , as if with a blessing , when the bugle rang again , and down came a body of horsemen -- two hundred , at least -- friends or foes , I cared not -- I never left my father -- nor lifted my eyes -- nor dislodged his venerable head from my arms , till I heard the voice of Archibald , in a tone of distraction , crying to ` dismount ! 
` Archibald ! ' 
` Wrap it round his body , ' said Archibald , coming up , as I began to envelope my father with it . 
-- Oadley ! 
Archibald 's tread sounded behind me -- he had already been with our blessed mother -- and I -- I had not . 
I rushed by him , but the hue of his face , frightened me -- he stood , with his eyes upon Lucia , unable to speak , or move . 
` But where is Archibald ? ' 
-- and I told Archibald of it , and that the colour did not even rush to it , as if to reprove the unlicensed touch . 
But he only shook his head , patiently , and smiled -- poor fellow -- so that it brought the tears into my eyes . 
` He was here , a few moments since , ' said the surgeon , and the next moment , as if the sound of his name brought him into sight , he stepped forward -- advanced , as if to offer some assistance ; dropped his eyes , as if unwilling to meet the eyes of Lucia ; who , just becoming sensible of her situation -- so young -- so beautiful -- her black hair all dishevelled -- and dashed eyes , swimming in light and tearfulness -- and cheeks burning with shame ; was endeavouring to draw her shawl over her partially exposed bosom , with an agitated hand -- a -- ` Archibald ! ' 
` Not mortally , Lucia , ' said Archibald , with a tone that went to my heart , -LRB- her hands fell into her lap , motionless as death -RRB- , ` but deeply , irretrievably . ' 
I know not if Archibald meant it -- or observed what I did ; but Lucia 's head dropped , and I saw the tears fall , drop after drop , upon the dark dress of her mother , upon whose bosom she leant . 
He went to her ; took her hand -- it lay passively , in his -- and fell not , even when he opened his own , as if to relinquish it . 
said he ; carried it to his lips , and left the room . 
-- I found Clinton there , in low conversation with Archibald , and though , from some words that struck my ear , I thought that they were talking confidentially , and therefore , endeavoured to apprise them of my approach , by walking heavily ; yet , so deeply were they engaged , that I was already at my own bed side , before they observed me . 
Oadley . 
There are five men of us here , two of whom , Oadley and myself , can do garrison duty -- or rather , hospital duty , -LRB- smiling -RRB- yet -- and I expect a reinforcement every moment . 
Sampson , with his crooked boy , will be here this morning -- a tough old blade ; and a very devil , the young one -- and if Nell come with them , as I expect , we shall have enough to keep us all in heart , and laugh , whatever happen . 
We must take ourchance , -LRB- with peculiar significance , as if he understood where my thoughts were , at the moment -RRB- ourchance , Oadley , with the rest . 
` Farewell , Colonel -- farewell , Oadley -- there , take my hand -- remember -- remember ! 
-- if any thing happen -- you understand me -- my family have few friends -- my daughters , -LRB- he was scarcely articulate -RRB- , none . 
They are proud girls , Clinton : high blood -- generous hearts , Oadley . 
Archibald , I found locked , in my mother 's arms -- my father sitting by , with the same unaltered , unalterable countenance -- and she -- wretched woman -- weeping like some widowed one -- nay , like some dishonoured widow -- I -- They were the first tears that I had seen her shed , openly ; and when she came to me , I felt the inward lamentation of a mother , the inaudible , deep feeling of a woman , unable to utter a sound , against my bosom , like the rush of waters . 
The men were all ready , and I turned to look for Archibald -- but he was gone -- and I , willing to find some companionship , followed in the direction that I supposed he had taken . 
-- Voices were near me , and I stopped , as I was passing the window of the very room where a few weeks before , Archibald and I had seen the two sisters . 
she exclaimed , ` have I to tell you again , Oadley , that there is no mystery in my nature There is my mother -- while her face is covered , there shall be nothing done that is capable of an evil interpretation . ' 
The next moment Archibald 's tread was heard -- he looked in , and beckoned to me . 
` Come in , come in , my dear Archibald ! ' 
Archibald gently released himself from her arms , wiped off the tears from his temples -- and cheek -- tears which had fallen from hereyes , in the embrace . 
oh Archibald , Archibald , your own mother can not love you more than I do -- farewell ! 
` Yes , ' said Archibald , bowing his head -- ` with all my heart -- Clara , ' -LRB- she gave him both her hands -- there was a rush of blood to her temples -- and her voice , always mellow , smooth and rich , like her father 's -- for a moment , was touched with the unsteady and passionate modulation of Lucia 's -RRB- -- ` dearClara -- I have said and done many things , my dear friend , very many , to pain and distress you . 
-- Archibald coloured -- and so did Clara -- but a mortal paleness followed in hisface . 
-- canyou not -- for one moment , Archibald ? ' 
` No -- ' he replied , and then , as if a new thought had struck him , he added -- ` yes -- I can -- I will -- it were a pity to part unkindly , for the last time . ' 
` And what is that dear Archibald ? ' 
He shook his head -- but would not explain -- but I had reason to believe that he alluded to a change of name -- perhaps her marriage -- or death -- for after he had left the house , he announced his determination of entering the service by an assumed name . 
He continued -- -LRB- while the bugle rang in the court yard , the horses neighed , and the voice of preparation sounded through all the apartments -- like an army broken up in the house of prayer -- so awfully hushed had it been , an hour before -RRB- . 
` O , Archibald , I do pity -- ' said Clara . 
` So do I , ' said Archibald , ` from my soul I pity her -- the dear enthusiast . ' 
` My heart misgives me , Archibald -- there have been too much hurry , rashness , precipitation here -- a brave man , an honourable one , I do believe -- yet it is not wise or temperate . 
` Well Archibald -- you , I know ; my father knows you -- my mother -- Lucia -- and whatever you may think , depend upon it , we shall always love and revere you . 
-- ` You are young , Archibald , younger than your brother there ; but when all other men fail us -- all -- all ! 
-- The mother bowed upon his neck -- and he lifted his deep blue eyes to heaven -- locked their hands in his , while , almost for the first time in all his life , the bright tears trickled down from his open eyes , with an expression of heroick joy . 
` Archibald , ' said the mother , ` I am afraid that you are not blameless in this matter -- but it is too late now -- she is a proud girl , a proud impatient spirit -- watch over her -- be a brother too her -- she may want a brother -- Look to her . ' 
said Archibald with unalterable solemnity . 
` Yes , Sir , ' said Archibald , ` in ten minutes -- ah ! 
Clinton retreated a pace or two , tapped the hilt of his sabre , with his fingers -- and smiled -- damn him , I could hardly keep my own sword in its sheath -- but Archibald heeded him not -- and continued , though Lucia sat like one terrour struck . 
` In truth , I did , ' said Archibald , in a louder voice , rather of surprise -- ` but -- you look angry , Clinton . 
said Archibald , eyeing him haughtily . 
` Order him to be bound , hand and foot , to one of the trees , there , ' was the reply , ` or hewed , limb from limb , where he sits . ' 
` There will be two swords to that bargain , Clinton , ' said Archibald , taking out his pistols , cooly . 
` Archibald , ' said he , ` this is a damned foolish affair . 
I -- ' I reined up , expecting to hear the report of a pistol ; but Archibald went by me , showing no sign of agitation , except a vigorous swelling of the nostrils , and a little more steadiness of eye . 
Rocket leaped out , almost from under him ; and Archibald I saw , with his hand -- riding abreast of Clinton , nearly at a gallop -- upon Rocket 's mane . 
` Hold in a moment , ' said Archibald , through his shut teeth -- ` let the troop pass out of sight . 
` I will not , ' said I. Archibald looked astonished ; but , seeing that I was determined , he waited in a dead silence , till the last man had turned the road in our front , throwing his head round , as he did so . 
Archibald then wheeled short , and came up to Clinton , so that their horse 's heads touched . 
I love the wench -- that 's the truth o n't -- but , damn it , you are not in earnest , Oadley ! 
I had just time to lay my hand upon Archibald 's arm ; when , struck himself at the peril of his own temper , he turned pale as death -- took out his pistols , and discharged them at a tree . 
I dolove her , Archibald , more than all the women upon earth -- more than I ever thought that I was capable of loving any woman on earth -- any thing . ' 
` Thank you , ' said Archibald , ` but -- ' ` Any thing but Rocket , I mean , ' said the incorrigible Clinton . 
Give me your hand , Archibald -- your 's Oadley . 
` Come , come , Archibald , ' said Clinton , ` no more of this -- we have carried the matter far enough . ' 
Archibald contracted his forehead , and replied , nearly in these very words ; for they made a strange impression on me , being delivered with a cool , deliberate expression of sagacity , as if his whole opinion of Clinton had changed -- and could never be changed back again : -- ` Colonel Clinton , I can bear to lose her -- bear to see her wrested from me , after a three weeks acquaintance , by a stranger ; but I can not bear to hear her affectionate , noble nature , treated irreverently . 
Archibald Oadley yethas a place in her heart , to which your image will never penetrate -- never ! 
` To your place , Captain Oadley -- that is the baggage , coming ahead . 
I heard Archibald catch his breath -- and saw his head droop as Washington approached , with Clinton at his side , in earnest conversation . 
` Captain Oadley , ' said Washington , to me , in a voice that made my heart sink within me -- I attempted to stammer out some reply -- but I could not . 
` No , your Excellency , ' said Clinton , spurring to his side , ` thatis Captain Oadley , '' pointing to Archibald . 
Colonel Clinton , youwill put them upon duty to night -- we have no time for refreshment -- and tomorrow , bring Captain Oadley to me -- ' Saying this , he put his handsome horse into a slow gallop , and passed on . 
` Captain Oadley , ' said Clinton , dropping behind , and assuming all at once , the air of command , best fitted to his countenance , the occasion , and the place -- he sat his horse royally indeed -- and the superb uniform which he wore laced athwart the breast , gave all the properties of his full chest , and broad square shoulders to the eye -- ` you will keep your men upon the wing younder , ' pointing to the right -- ` take what prisoners you can , without hazard ; cut down every straggler and deserter without mercy , and give notice of all that drop from fatigue . ' 
Captain Oadley made the salute , as if he had never seen his face before , gave his orders , and immediately took his position , scouring the plain ground , far and near , till past eleven o'clock that night -- having been nearly twelve hours in the saddle . 
Our army was now in full retreat to Princeton , having left Newark , and Brunswick , before Cornwallis with a light body of picked men , amounting to more than double the number of ours ; and so hotly pressed was Washington by the unexpected vigour of the enemy , just at the time when he was supposed to have gone into winter quarters -- and the term of enlistment was expiring with our troops , that the van of the enemy sucessively entered New Ark , Brunswick , Princeton and Trenton , while the rear of our army was leaving each place . 
Place yourselves with us in the boats , my children ; imagine that you see Archibald and myself holding our horses by the head , with one foot upon the gunwale , looking into the black deep water -- the enemy just coming in sight -- flash after flash -- shot after shot , sent after us -- with a loud word or too -- in laugh and scorn -- from the enemy ; and now and then a horseman dashing , at full speed , along the bank , before the torches . 
` My men shall choose for themselves , ' said Archibald . 
` I do not believe that it was broken -- ' said Archibald -- ` It was bruised , and perhaps dislocated -- for I know that the wrist was terribly swollen -- but my notion is that it will be soon well . ' 
A word or two passed between them , when the general pointed to Archibald , who stood patiently waiting the issue -- and then rode off . 
My father bore a letter for Clinton , which was sent to his quarters , but not an hour had passed , before a messenger came with orders for Captain Oadley . 
I arose to accompany him . 
He must go alone . ' 
said he , to Archibald , throwing down a letter . 
Archibald went a step nearer , as if distrusting his own eyes . 
` Damn it , Oadley , ' dashing the back of his hand over his eyes , I do n't half like this affair . 
I -- ' Archibald looked , and I felt , deeply offended . 
` Nor will it be to the enemy , I 'm a thinking , father , ' said Archibald , lifting his head for a moment . 
The traces of weeping were yet upon his eyes -- and a quick confusion passed over his face , as he saw our eyes glancing , where the moisture and breath of his wet lips had frozen upon the table ; and the tears had fallen like rain , and dashed his arm athwart the whole , exclaiming , ` if we are to remain here much longer , we shall be weather proof indeed . ' 
` What mean you , Archibald ? ' 
said the old man , putting his hand upon Archibald 's head . 
I was startled at the sudden reply of Archibald . 
There was a peevishness and impatience in it -- and he talked with that hurried earnestness , which is common with them , that talk to drown their own thought . 
I had wondered too , at the strange communicativeness that he had just manifested , and began to study him with more attention , to discover , if possible , what it was , that so wrought upon him . 
He lifted his deep , beautiful , intelligent eyes , upon me -- attempted to speak -- dropped the lids , two or three times , and opened and shut his lips , with that dry , peevish expression , which shews the unquiet nature of the spirit within , more forcibly than any words -- and then , as if ashamed of his own weakness , stooped to the floor , or rather to the trodden earth , for we had no other floor , and picked up a letter , which he pushed toward me , and then turning suddenly to my father , while I began to read it , asked him how Mr. Arnauld was . 
Do n't frown , Archibald ; the hand of God hath fallen heavily upon him -- but his proud spirit is humbled to the earth . 
-- ' said Archibald choking -- ` There is no consolation for her , boy -- earthly consolation I mean . 
` Let it not be agitated then , ' said Archibald , -- ` for that would be a death to it now , perhaps , which at another day , it would resist for ever -- ' -LRB- pressing his own hand upon his own heart , with all his strength -RRB- -- ` well brother , you have finished , I see -- what think you of it . ' 
said Archibald , ` how little she knows her own heart . ' 
` Read that , ' said I -- giving him a letter that my proud Clara had written me . 
` We had hoped , dear Oadley , to see you for a few hours , at Christmas ; and , sad as the prospect is , we shall not give up the hope , until the night has passed . 
-- read on , ' said Archibald , without looking at it -- ` read on , what says she of -- of -- I lifted my eyes to shew him that I understood of whom he would inquire , and glancing at my father , whose loud breathing announced that he had fallen asleep -- while Archibald threw off his watch cloak , covered him with it , and sat by his side so as to support his head upon his bosom -- I read as follows -- ` Remember me to Mr. Rodman , who , we are told , as well as yourself -LRB- bad English , but I can not help it , in the hurry of my feeling -RRB- is an officer -- and tell him that the stout hearted never despair -- that it is unmanly to be stricken to the heart , by any sorrow , any calamity , any humiliation -- tell him that a woman says so -- and bid him awake , stand up , bare his forehead to the sky , and shake off the fetters that encumber him . 
` And now , as for you , dear John -- allow me to address you so -- it is an endearing appellation -- and may be a comfort to you , if any thing should hereafter happen to sunder us -- ' ` To what , ' said Archibald -- starting -- ` To sunder us ! '' 
` She writes very composedly -- ' said he , in reply , with a sort of bitter pleasantry -- ` as if such an event were in her contemplation , but proceed -- ' ` I never used it to mortal man except to you -- I have reserved it to this moment . 
I have been thinking much of you since you left us , and I have come to the conclusion , impelled to the enquiry perhaps by what Archibald said , when we parted , that we have all misunderstood your true character -- that , sedate and quiet as you are -- you have a slumbering earthquake in your breast . 
-- You -- or your father , or Archibald , or Arthur , or Clinton -- no , no it is not only possible , but probable , that we shall never allassemble again , about the bright hearth and bountiful table of the season . 
Our mother 's love to you , and Archibald , whose name agitates her to tears , whenever it is mentioned ; and Mr. Rodman -- our father 's too . 
not one word -- ' said Archibald , dropping his hands , with a sick and despairing helplessness , upon the table . 
-- I like not the commencement of this affair -- but her happiness is in the keeping of heaven -- of an honourable man , though an imprudent one -- and of your brother Archibald -- tell him this . ' 
` God bless her , ' -- said Archibald , covering his face , and bowing his head , religiously -- till it touched the gray locks of our father . 
-- It appeared to jar her a good deal at first , but she pronounced his name , with a benediction , when she had read it -- and then turned deadly sick -- but , as she did not offer to let me see it , I have never importuned her about it , feeling assured that I may trust the dear creature to Archibald now , as I would , if he were her twin brother . ' 
The tears trickled through his fingers , and fell , drop by drop , past the light , so that I could count them , where I sat , though little did he think that they could be seen . 
` No , ' he replied -- taking a paper out of his pocket . 
Having copied this , for your eyes , my dear children , from the original , which is yet in my possession ; I will now endeavour to give you the substance , and indeed much of the very language -LRB- for , I had that , till the house was burnt -RRB- of her 's to Clinton , which enclosed Archibald 's to her . 
Ask Archibald -- that stout hearted boy -- Archibald , whom I -- O , do not flatter yourself Clinton , it was not all love -- so sudden -- measureless -- appalling -- O , no -- it was not -- but I sacrificed him to you -- and -- I rave strangely Clinton , and can not for the life of me , retain , even in conversation , the ordinary coherency of life . 
I heard my brother gasping for breath , but I dared not look up -- and continued to read -- ` I believe that Archibald tells the truth -- I believe therefore that this is a final adieu -- and I think that I can see you smile -- but my early hope , and you can estimate its lightness , when I tell you that I myself , I ; a woman in love to distraction -- believe it to be a desperate one -- for I have known Archibald for many years -- you but for a few weeks -- I think that I can see you smile , haughtily and confidently , while you read the threat -- as if assured , in your own heart , that one word or look of your 's , will bring the love sick girl -- now that she is so utterly in your power -- upon your bosom again . 
But beware of my father -- of John -- of Arthur -- and most of all , of Archibald -- your blood Clinton , I would not have it spilt for me -- but , I can not prevent it . 
I foresee that , if Archibald tell the truth -- if -- do I say if -- O ! 
God that thatshould be my only hope -- falsehood in Archibald Oadley . 
Do not believe that I doubt him , because I enclose his letter to you -- No -- it is because I would show my confidence in you . 
-- -- If you are innocent -- put your sword -- not through his heart -- not -- no , no -- let him alone -- let him perish in his own way : -- if guilty -- God forever bless you Clinton -- but I have done with you . ' 
He came , and ordered Archibald to be brought immediately to his own quarters , which were rather better furnished , than the others , -- and fitted up as a sort of hospital . 
-- All the next day he never opened his lips -- nor the next night , except to ask the time , and order the horse to be out , at the exercise , an hour earlier than usual -- intending to be with them , but he could not -- and it was not till almost noon , when the stirring about him , as we struck our tents , awoke him , that he seemed to recollect himself , for he immediately arose , and with a little assistance , dressed himself , in spite of the remonstrance of the physician . 
what do you mean , Oadley -- are you desponding ? ' 
` You are very weak , dear Archibald , ' said Clinton , taking the strap from his hand -- but , if you cansit your horse , you must . 
-- ' said I , involuntarily -- glancing at Archibald -- ` By heaven ! ' 
-- Washington came out , just ahead of us , and mounted his great white horse , with that air of absolute authority , which began to distinguish all his movement about this time -- for congress had made him little less than a dictator at last -- and Archibald , when once upon the back of his spirited little mare , seemed to forget , in the presence of his Commander in Chief , all sense of infirmity , if not of mortality ; for when Clinton raised his sword , while he rode by the side of Washington , -- as a signal to my brother to set off , it was done in such a gallant , soldier like style , that Washington pressed his white charger forward at least twenty yards abreast of my brother , utterly regardless of the young cavalcade about him -- as if carried away , for a moment , with enthusiasm -- and well he might have been , for my brother 's eyes shone intensely bright -- and his pale , boyish face was illuminated with a strange settled sternness , well calculated to startle the boldest . 
A tremendous struggle was going on at our right , under the very eye of Washington , with the enemy 's artillery , which was taken , when , with a troop of horse , in which I fancied that I could see my father , nay , I am almost certain that it was he , by the disorderly movement of his horse , for he broke out of the ranks , and was twenty yards ahead of the other men -- Archibald rode down , his cap off , his sword flashing , like a fire brand , in the light and smoke of the musquetry -- ` charge ! 
said Archibald , shouting as if his heart would break , to Captain Washington -- ` I will try them again ! ' 
And , as he said so , he rode at full speed , so near that it appeared to me that he could have struck the enemy with his sword -- and fired his pistol into their faces . 
Our front rank followed the example -- and the next moment , all the Hessians brought their pieces up to their cheeks , and poured a tremendous volley in upon us -- I saw my father fall -- Arthur reel in his stirrups -- but Archibald , as if prepared for this very thing -- shouted , ` wheel and charge ! ' 
At first there was a darkness and dizziness about my eyes -- and then I began to doubt if I were in my right senses -- but Archibald and Arthur rode up to me , the latter with his white pantaloons covered all over with blood and dirt -- and we alighted -- and tearing open his bosom , discovered that there was no life in him -- that his aged breast was literally blown to pieces ; and the trumpet blowing -- we took the dead hand in ours , sucsessively , without looking at each other -- cut off , hurriedly a lock of his grey hair -- saturated and stiff with frozen blood -- mounted and left him -- with an inconceivable calmness -- for -- it was not till our wounds were dressed , that we thought of our mother -- our poor , dear mother . 
I saw him , when he fell -- he waved his sword to me -- and if ever man 's face spoke , without sound , his said -- Archibald I repent -- God bless the woman of my heart ! 
About forty , I heard General Greene say , as I passed him , to Archibald -- and among them , their gallant leader , Colonel Rahl -- God have mercy upon him ! 
` I should not ' -- said Archibald . 
` His officers , I am told , complain that he would not permit them to entrench . ' 
` It is the night wind Archibald . ' 
We were in some danger , but Archibald 's presence of mind , and my bodily strength prevented any disaster . 
He leaped out of the boat , to avoid the hoofs of the mare -- and she plunged , headlong , after him , followed by half a dozen other horses , that had been first thrown upon their knees by the sudden jar , and kept there by the boat swiming round . 
It was not deep , and Archibald had the self recollection , to abandon the bridle , and dive under our boat , -- while I , leaping into the rotten ice , and half frozen water -- kept off the horses from the shore till he had secured his foot hold . 
We had then little difficulty in bringing out all of them but one , and he , poor fellow , was of such prodigious strength , and temper , that we feared to approach him . 
Several times he swam up to us , and stretched out his head , as if to bring the bridle within our reach , but we were too far from him . 
He then attempted to mount the ice , and plunged , at least fifty times , into the deepest part of the river , blowing and snorting the while , so that we could hear him all along the shore . 
-- And , now and then , through the sleet and darkness , we could see the noble creature throw himself half out of the river -- place his fore feet upon the newly formed ice -- make a desperable effort -- the ice would give way -- we would hear the rush and plunge -- he would go under -- and rise . 
Our boats were such great unmanageable things , we were utterly unable to assist him -- at last he grew desperate -- the rattling of his nostrils became incessant -- his blows upon the ice -- one uninterrupted struggle , then -- poor creature , a long , loud , half suffocated neigh -- a few more struggles , and he passed under the ice , as we supposed , for we heard a sound as if it came from the bottom , long afterward -- afar off -- and dying away in the distance and darkness . 
For several days after the battle , we were kept in continual motion -- scarcely eating or sleeping -- marching and countermarching in all directions ; first , after collecting a body of Pensylvania militia , under General Mercer , as brave a fellow as ever stood fire , and leaving our prisoners at Philadelphia , we immediately returned to the Delaware , and recrossed it again , making the fourth time , that Archibald and I had gone from one shore to the other , with swelling hearts and mournful thoughts -- alike in that -- yet how unlike in all that shakes the sinew , or shortens the breath of men ! 
-- There is that in your eyes which I would fain see dissipated -- you are not the man I hope , -- I believe , Archibald , to spill the blood of a human creature , for any lighter cause than the salvation of your country . 
-- Archibald -- my brother ! 
-- You do not deny it -- then why -- ' He interrupted me impatiently -- ` let us talk no more about it , now -- I shall do nothing rashly . 
` That is my noble Archibald ! ' 
said Archibald , as we drew out our whole cavalry , to the left of the line of cannon , from which an uninterrupted roll of thunder , smoke and brightness , was kept up , while we were conversing -- ` but -- my heart is heavy brother , not , I believe with apprehension , or doubt , but with -- do not smile upon me -- with a foreboding . 
-- By to-morrow night , John , -- when the red sun hath gone down -- your feeling will be more of sorrow than shame -- perhaps for these words ; -- if it should be -- remember -- remember that Archibald forgave you , and blessed you ! ' 
-- He fell upon my neck , and kissed me , while his soft hair was blown into my eyes , -- and over my lips . 
-- An officer here rode up to my brother , and ordered him to trot his horses loudly about the rear -- while the baggage , and three pieces of ordnance moved off to Burlington -- ` They are in Council , ' said the officer -- ` and we know not what will be done -- it is getting very cold ' -- ` Yes ' -- said Archibald , -- ` the most sudden change that I ever felt . 
-- ` Shall we fight , ' said Archibald -- The officer shrugged his shoulders -- and replied -- ` yes -- or retreat , by the Jersey side , and cross at Philadelphia -- either of which is -- speaking after the manner of men -- damned hazardous . ' 
Archibald turned away , in displeasure . 
He would , sometimes , when violently heated , suffer an oath or profane word to escape him , but never , of late , in a serious moment , and never at all , without deep penitence and shame -- At length , however , we were directed to gallop along , as silently as we could . 
-- At the same moment , an order was given , and Archibald wheeled off to the left , leaving us to follow , and as I approached , giving me his hand for a moment -- ` farewell ! 
-- said he , stretching his bright weapon at the full length of his arm , and heaving out his chest , in the star light -- ` Farewell , ' said I , striking the rowels home -- and leaping past him -- I could not bear it . 
-- -- There , my dear Children -- I have been willing to forget the battle , and the subject for awhile , and amuse you , for I know your taste and that of our people , with a few rockets , -- and -- but let me return -- ` Where , in the name of heaven , is Archibald ? ' 
cried Arthur , galloping by me ; about four hours after the battle -- it was the first time that I had heard his voice for weeks -- ` I have ransacked the whole field -- I have asked every human being -- I -- ' For a moment -- I felt as if I were shot through the heart -- I remembered Archibald 's farewell -- I remembered too , seeing him , a little before , dashing among the enemy when they stove into the College , and -- ` God of heaven , ' I exclaimed -- dropping the reins of my horse , and reflecting back the terrified paleness of Arthur upon his own forehead -- as I recollected where I had seen him -- ` that must have been he . ' 
he cried -- and true it was -- for the next moment , Archibald himself appeared , coming in with five of his men at his heels , driving ten or twelve prisoners before them . 
His action was menacing , and his look frightful . 
-- I should hardly have known him -- his whole uniform was saturated with blood , as if he had been bearing wounded men to the hospital . 
-- Upon his white forehead were spattering drops , and his beautiful hair itself , stood out , stiff and frozen , under the pressure of his iron bound cap , as if that too were full of blood . 
I shuddered as he passed me -- I could not speak -- I tried , and my lips moved -- but I could utter no sound -- I felt as if a spirit had gone by me -- the hair of my flesh rose , and my flesh itself crawled . 
Nay , but for me , I verily believe that he would have cloven the skulls of two or three of the prisoners , as they drove them along like wild beasts before them , pricking them at every step with their swords -- and flourishing their sabres round their heads -- heads that disdained to duck , in the whistle and blaze of the sabres , but looked with a steady eye upon them . 
Archibald , in particular , seemed as if he could hardly keep his hands off . 
said I -- seeing the blood bubble over the top of his tight boots , as he rose in the stirrups , or pressed upon them , with the movement of his mare -- ` Yes , ' he replied , smiling -- ` yes , and if it were not to be a tedious affair , I should not be sorry if -- if it should be seriously -- or even -- pardon me brother , but I can not forbear the truth -- even mortally ' -- ` It is impious , ' said I -- ` impious , Archibald : whatever is , is right . ' 
-- ` True , ' he replied , locking his hands -- and reeling a little , in the saddle , ` true brother -- and God be praised , that , in the heat of battle -- I remembered that , and thought of Him -- Him the Everlasting -- and felt that inexpressible awe and devotedness that -- I can not well express it -- it was , in a measure , as if , to some one of his Angels , I had heard him give Washington in charge . 
It was then that I first saw Archibald , and but for him -- but no , I am not permitted to tell that -- I have promised not to tell , that he saved my life , and brought down a fellow , at twenty yards , with a pistol ball , at full speed -- and I am very scrupulous , very , about my word ! 
Archibald ? 
I started , as if Archibald himself had stood before me . 
-- here , -- Archibald ! 
I could not be mistaken ; it was Archibald -- I know not what followed -- I attempted to stagger to him , but a sudden sickness of the heart , giddiness and blindness followed , I -- ah -- that 's Ellen 's voice -- another time , my friend -- I am very sad , very heavy at the heart , another time -- dear mother , what can I do for you ? ' 
But go to night -- to night , Clinton -- to night , Oadley -- and at the risk even of hisdispleasure -- I will pursue you -- till I am at the bottom of the whole -- yea , to the furthermost extremities of the earth -- and then -- if there be aught that a father could not bear to see , or hear -- that father 's blood , you shall be wet with -- or he shall wash his hands in that of your hearts . ' 
` I can not go to night -- Oadley , I can not -- Clara -- ' I looked at her , and half extended my hand , but there was no correspondent motion in her -- and my countenance darkened , particularly when I heard her say to her sister -- ` Lucia will not want for consolation ; where hearts are readily won , or lost ' -- it was bitterly said , and alluded , I knew , to the unhappy errour in which she was , respecting the night interview . 
` Well , well -- so much the better , ' said Archibald . 
` I hope so , ' said Archibald -- ` or we shall starve and rot where we are . 
he cried -- pointing to a foot soldier that was hobbling by at the moment -- ` that poor fellow has gone , literally barefooted , day after day -- among the ice and snow ; one third of our men are in the same situation -- not one in five has a blanket -- and we have been two whole days without provision -- the wretched parsimony of these farmers about here , and the villainous new management of the Philadelphians , have brought our little army to death 's door . ' 
Archibald shut his eyes , and pressed his hands , locked and trembling , upon his breast ; but , uttered no sound , more , either of surprise or sorrow . 
I then led him to my interview with Clara -- he smiled -- shook -- started up -- but when I came to the trial -- and forbore , as I was obliged to , all explanation of the cause which led to the misunderstanding , he caught my hands , wildly . 
But I dared not trust myself to any longer contemplation of the subject -- chiefly , I believe , because there was something pleasant in this new companionship with Arthur and Archibald -- as if mydesolation could compare with their 's ! 
The next day , I took particular pains to look into the state of the troop , enquire the true situation of Archibald , who , I found , was in no danger -- obtain permission to go to Philadelphia , with Arthur for a companion ; and the third day after my return , just when they began to light the market , we entered the city , at a handsome trot , our sabres ringing , and the iron hoofs of our well shod chargers , rattling , like a whole troop of cavalry along the pavement . 
Stay , I 'll sing that to you , bye and bye -- O -- I was telling you about poor Mary -- So , I was down to Mr. Arnauld 's , and just when you were setting off , with that troop of horse , I heard somebody , -- one of the girls , pointing to you , as I thought , say -- somebody asked who you were , she said that you were Arthur Rodman -- and then , when you had gone -- but now I remember that Arthur was near you , but I do n't mind him much , nor that white faced little fellow there , that they called Archy -- Archibald , or some such name -- I could see nobody but you , and when I heard from aunt , two or three days after , and that the strange sick girl was talking about Arthur Rodman , I began to enquire all about him , thinking all the while it was you -- at last , I could not ask any more -- I felt melancholy , and I never mentioned your name , but romped and laughed all the day long , while Clara and Lucia , were moping in a corner . 
` Oadley , you are laughing at me -- good night . ' 
` I can not sleep , ' said he , ` I must walk about , I am too happy to sleep -- so happy , that , as I am a living man , Oadley , I should have made some of the rascals a head shorter , but for Mary . ' 
` Not that I know of , ' he replied , ` but at the thought of her -- her , Oadley -- my heart was at peace with the whole world , upon my soul ; I could have shaken hands with the devil himself , or a Hessian , had I met him . ' 
-- It set me meditating upon my own imprudence -- upon Clara -- and ere we arrived at the tent of Archibald , for we took a wide circuit in reaching Morristown -- I had made up my mind , to be a better man , and a truer one , to heaven and to her . 
` Brother , ' said Archibald , who was sitting up when we entered , ` I have been impatient for your return . 
` Poor fellow , ' said Archibald , turning towards him , and leaning upon his shoulder ; ` what has happened to him ? ' 
I was fain to tell the whole ; for some minutes , Archibald stood upright , looking at me , with a stern , pallid countenance , as if doubting whether I was not in sport ; his eyes then began to move -- tears ran round the balls , and he put his hand upon my temples , and shook his head , as if , perhaps , he thought that I was disordered ; but be that as it may , he soon knew the whole truth , and of the whole three , hewas the happiest ! 
Never did I see his heart so full ; his religious , devout rapture , so eminently expressive , as now , in his mute blue eyes ; shaking hands , and convulsed lips . 
` Let us separate , ' said he , ` I can not talk now -- leave me awhile . ' 
We arose at his bidding , and went out , traversing the camp , and maturing our thought for the future ; but almost in silence , for the stillness was only broken , now and then , by some contraction of the hand , and a deep breathing for a moment , as we turned , alternately , in our march , and caught each other 's arm -- unable to speak , yet too happy , far too happy for silence . 
And here my children , you will allow me to pause awhile , remarking , that no matter of importance took place for several weeks in our little camp , till Archibald was restored , and Clinton , rejoined us -- for the purpose of carrying your thought abroad , to the more distant operations of our country , in the field and council . 
He was an altered man ; and the intercourse that had once subsisted between him and Archibald , who had now become one of the heartiest and strongest , as well as most active young fellows in the army -- seemed to be entirely forgotten . 
There was no sign of recognition between them , not a word nor a look -- but , in the deep blue eyes of Archibald , and the dark flashing balls of Clinton , there was a mute expression of mortal antipathy , or at least , so I thought , whenever they passed each other . 
Clinton , I observed , was perpetually practising with the small sword ; and Archibald , it was thought , had no equal now in the army . 
But I never spoke of it to Archibald ; or rather , he would never permit me to approach the subject , though I tried , repeatedly , to sound him . 
Clinton heard of it , and one evening , as we all sat together , playing cards , Archibald , in a remarkable good humour ; and Arthur , altogether the man that he had been for months before , his heart running over at the lips , every word -- a gentleman entered , and presented a note to my brother . 
The stranger retired -- and Archibald played out his hand . 
Du Coudray , a creature brimful of chivalry , threw himself back in the seat ; and , pretending to arrange the cards , sat for several minutes , studying the countenance of Archibald -- and at last -- tapping , first my brother 's heart and then his own , said -- ` Monsieur -- ah , ha ! 
One trick was taken -- in silence ; -- when the next came , Archibald jumped up from his chair , crying -- ` why ! 
I took Archibald 's arm , soon after , and led him out in front of the tent , where we could talk together , awhile , without the risk of interruption . 
` And what do you mean to do Archibald ? ' 
` Nothing , ' he replied . 
` But surely , ' I continued , willing to probe his heart , no matter how deeply , so that I could touch the place , where all his hatred of Clinton lay , ` surely , you can not have forgotten her ? ' 
` I would know , dear Archibald , ' said I -- ` if you have forgiven Clinton . ' 
I ought to have known that the woman who has once loved Archibald Oadley , can never love another man . 
and I bless her for it , ' cried Archibald , wringing my hand -- ` I know it ! 
Nay , she did more -- she tended him through his illness -- wept over him , prayed with him , watched with him , gave him every opportunity that a lover could wish -- and yet -- O , righteous heaven ! 
said I , ` Yet -- yet -- there is something more than humiliation required , to bring back the proud heart of Archibald , I fear . 
He has no compassion for frailty -- no forgiveness for a sin like hers -- no mercy -- O my brother ! ' 
Archibald took up one ; and , putting his finger upon the button , asked , why he brought two pair ? 
I turned in the direction of his eyes , and saw a thin spare man , with very black eyes , scowling at us ; his cocked hat pushed on one side , as if in defiance , so as to reveal two very deep scars upon his forehead ; and his hand resting upon the hilt of a horseman 's sword , almost as tall as Archibald . 
Archibald took his position ; both had taken off their boots and coats , and were standing in their slippers ; when Clinton , casting his eyes on the tall , black eyed man , of whom I had just spoken , seemed to request his interference . 
He stepped forward , insolently enough , in front of Archibald ; and , with a sneer , which caused Archibald 's forehead to contract , and his lip to writhe ; asked him if he had any disposition to take the ` mure ' first . 
Du Coudray smiled , while his dark eyes flashed fire at the interference ; and he remarked , with a shrug , that , in France , thatwas the lastceremony : ` apres qu'on a tiré -- absolument la dernier . ' 
But ere the motion was complete , Archibald , Du Coudray , myself , Clinton , and two others , stood , sword in hand , and almost foot to foot . 
` Stop , ' said Archibald , ` stop ! 
said the stranger ; ` no!said Archibald , calmly , ` no , the first was a fair hit ; the second , only a touch in the sword arm -- and the third , no hit at all , though a very hazardous experiment . ' 
said Clinton , sharply ; ` so hazardous , ' answered Archibald , in a low , deliberate voice , ` that I could parry and hit you , every time , that you should do it . ' 
` It certainly was not , ' said Archibald . 
I looked at Archibald ; his attitude was singularly composed and graceful -- the muscles of his arm , the sleeve of which , was rolled up , showing spiritedly , as he continued pressing upon his foil : I never saw such an arm , it was a limb of knotted serpents . 
The foils were blacked ; and , I observed that the feet of Clinton and Archibald , as they came upon guard , sounded with a more than common emphasis ; their eyes , too , were fiercer , than when they began . 
Clinton pressed him hotly , and the play was beautiful , for more than a minute ; when suddenly , Clinton 's foil flew out of his hand , and Archibald , was bent , nearly double , against his breast . 
Clinton was red with shame and vexation ; but Archibald remarked , with a tone of much kindness , that he did not intend to disarm him . 
Another round followed , with great spirit , and Archibald was hit -- acknowledged it , by putting his hand upon his left side ; but , before I could wink , he had returned it . 
And so it continued for several minutes , until the sweat streamed from both their faces -- Archibald uniformly returning the hit , instantly , after receiving it , while Du Coudray could not stand still , for his life . 
Archibald smiled ; stepped back , and as Clinton followed , lunged and hit him . 
I wondered at Archibald 's coolness and self possession : It seemed impossible that he could look so , unless sure of his superiority , and yet -- where was it ? 
` No , ' Archibald replied . 
` Several things Sir -- ' said Archibald , beginning to pull off his gloves , and look about for his coat . 
said Du Coudray , handing Archibald the foil . 
` Colonel Clinton -- ' said Archibald . 
Archibald , with the most innocent face in the world , just as if he took it all in downright earnest -- replied -- ` Colonel Clinton has been out of play too long . 
-- Clinton struck at him -- and , as Archibald caught the blow -- came upon guard , and then lunged furiously , several times . 
` Never mind , ' said Archibald -- disarming Clinton again , while Du Coudray picked up the foil . 
` Never mind ; it is all the same to me , ' said Archibald , in a tone of stinging sarcasm -- ` and if I mistake not , much the same to Colonel Clinton . ' 
` Perfectly , ' said Clinton , aiming a blow at him , -LRB- not with the point -RRB- that Archibald caught , like lightning . 
` With all my heart then -- ' said he , stepping back -- ` brother , stand back -- Arthur stand back -- Du Coudray take your stand with them -- hand to hilt ; let no man interfere ; for , by the living God ! 
We ranged ourselves immediately , with flashing eyes , opposite the three strangers ; Arthur , I observed , as he drew his sword , planting himself , face to face , with the black-eyed one -- I expected to see blood spilt -- other blood than Archibald 's -- a single word would have sent us to the encounter . 
Clinton and Archibald stood eyeing each other , and feeling their points . 
` Archibald ! ' 
Away went his sword -- but as Archibald did not follow him up , he recovered it again , and came upon guard , in a masterly style -- so masterly , that Archibald 's eyes sparkled with pleasure . 
They renewed the combat , and Clinton 's sword entered Archibald 's neck , when , it appeared to me that , if he had straightened his arm , he would have run Clinton through the body . 
` That was awkwardly done , ' said Archibald , dropping the point , and stepping back -- after Clinton withdrew his ; and the blood spouted out , as if an artery had been wounded . 
` Stop , ' cried Clinton -- with a scornful bitterness -- as if Archibald had been crying for mercy . 
He pressed upon him again , but Archibald continued for several minutes , as it appeared to me , to parry his thrusts with consummate dexterity -- returning none -- and not even making a repose , in which Du Coudray had often said that he was unrivalled for his quickness and brilliancy -- until both dropped their foils again -- and stood panting , as if their veins would burst , the sweat running from their foreheads , and their hair wringing wet , though it was an exceedingly cold day . 
said Clinton -- approaching Archibald again , with a mortal paleness about the lips -- ` now then for the lastround ? ' 
said Archibald , retreating -- with a fixed eye -- while Du Coudray could not forbear watching every movement of his arm -- Clinton rushed upon him , and played his weapon with an incessant flash -- and then there was a word or two passed between them -- a pause -- and the name of Lucia Arnauld was pronounced by Clinton , I believe , with some other word , I know not what -- but Archibald leaped from the ground , as if wounded -- saying , in a voice , that went through and through me . 
It was but a word and a blow -- a death blow -- for Archibald sprang from the ground -- their blades flashed fire , and rung -- the guards struck -- Clinton 's flew twenty feet high in the air -- breaking into several pieces , and Archibald 's hilt sounded upon his breast . 
Archibald stood over it -- as if struck blind -- the broken foil in his hand , bright as silver , though it had just been withdrawn from the vitals of a human being -- then -- looking about upon us -- like a murderer -- he stood , as if -- as if frightened at the sound of his own tread in the snow -- afraid to trust his own voice -- glanced at the broken weapon -- which dropped from his hand -- as if it were death-struck -- covered his face , and walked out into the open air -- followed by Du Coudray , Arthur and myself . 
All obeyed but Archibald . 
said he , advancing . 
But Archibald either did not understand him -- or disdained to reply , for he passed on . 
But Archibald never turned his head -- and but for Du Coudray , who stepped before the men , with violent gesticulation , we should have had bloody work of it yet ; -- for they were on the very point of throwing their bullets into Archibald -- and Arthur was ready to second me in any retaliation , however desperate . 
said Archibald , staring at him -- ` are you mad ? ' 
said Archibald , drawing it from the scabbard . 
` Lead me to him , ' said Archibald -- ` and mark me -- at your peril give sign or signal to the rascals there . 
` - Captain Oadley - , ' said Washington , to my brother , as we entered his quarters , about an hour after our arrest ; there was something exceedingly solemn in his tone ; ` how happens it , sir , that I see you with your side arms ? ' 
Archibald stood proudly , yet reverentially , before him , pale as death -- his brown hair saturated with sweat , and frozen upon his white forehead ; his large , deep blue eyes fainting not , nor fading , in the awful presence . 
He replied . 
Washington raised his head ; a slight movement of his nether lip , seemed to betray an inward agitation , as slight ; but he merely stretched out his hand in silence ; and Archibald obeyed it , by unbelting his sword , with a resolute hand , and laying it , respectfully , upon the table . 
` Yes , Sir , ' said Archibald . 
- ' ` No , Sir -- I slew him , deliberately , ' said Archibald . 
answered the general , raising his arm in wrath , and then letting it fall upon the table , before him , as if his great nature had rebuked him ; and then he continued in a deep , tranquilized tone , to speak , as follows : ` I have been assured , that the affair was an accident -- that several gentlemen , had assembled for fencing -- that , by some accident , Col. Clinton was slain . 
` I - did - hope , ' continued Washington , with a temperate fervency of manner , that brought tears into Archibald 's eyes ; ` that this would prove , what it has been represented to me -- a hasty , accidental affair ; and that a young man of such promise , would not have been the first , to set that discipline at naught , which he has been so long conspicuous in the support of . ' 
` May I be permitted , ' said Archibald , faltering a little in his voice , less , it was evident , from any terrour of punishment , than the fear of having offended his commander , ` to -- ' Washington signified to him to proceed -- and he continued , standing before him , with his arms folded , and his slight frame shaking with emotion , till he had told the tale as it was ; and till the face of Washington altered -- first to compassion , then to sorrow , then to admiration . 
I do not mean to say , that he told the - cause - of the quarrel ; but the whole of the quarrel , which ended so fatally , he did tell , modestly , but manfully , till Washington himself changed colour -- and then , turning slowly to us both , said : ` I shall enquire into this . 
We bowed , for the motion of his hand was not to be misunderstood , or resisted ; and withdrew -- just as Colonel Reid was returning . 
He stopped , as we passed him -- wiped a tear from his eyes , and gave his hand to Archibald ; ` poor Clinton , ' said he . 
` Poor Clinton , ' said Archibald , from his heart ; and we passed on . 
` There is your sword , ' said an officer , entering one day after dinner , and handing a sabre to Archibald ; ` the commander bids you use it , hereafter , not against your friends , nor his friends , but the enemies of your country . ' 
Archibald bowed , and , the moment that the officer had left the room , threw the weapon from him , saying : ` Brother ! 
` Archibald ! ' 
` For shame Archibald , ' I cried , ` for shame ! 
` You distress me , exceedingly , dear Archibald , ' said I , ` rouse yourself . 
` No , dear Archibald -- no , it is is only the noise of distant cannon -- surely you can see as well as I ! ' 
The doctor looked alarmed -- but attributed the sudden blindness of Archibald , to a quick rush of blood into the brain , after sitting in a recumbent posture for a long time ; yet , with all our care , it was some days before we were able to repeat the experiment of leading him into the open air . 
All felt it , but no man more than Archibald ; -- his sinews were strung to snapping , again and again during the day . 
To Archibald , more than to any of us , this trial was terrible ! 
-- naturally impatient , he was -- -LRB- chiefly , I believe , that the uproar might drown certain recollections of Clinton -RRB- -- unspeakably so , about this time . 
And , at last , when General Greene had been advanced , to fall upon the enemy 's rear , -- and Wayne and Morgan , upon their flanks ; with Washington , and the whole main body to support them -- Archibald could be restrained no longer ; -- and , just at day light , when Morgan 's infantry attacked the Hessian pickets , and drove them in , he rode suddenly down upon them , at the head of his troop , without waiting for orders -- heedless , it would seem , of every thing but employment ; for , such was the disorderly nature of his attack , that , but for Morgan , who , for a moment , mistook him for an enemy , and suddenly called in his men , to receive him , he would probably have been sacrificed for his impetuosity . 
I remember my own feelings ; and love to recall the bright eye and clouded aspect of Archibald at this time , who was , really -- I believe it in my soul -- the only man within our entrenchments , whose heart did not stop sometimes , -- when the tale of Burgoyne and his army of veterans , his world of artillery -- his own reputation -- and the hordes of Indian marksmen that followed his camp -- came to our ears . 
Archibald leaped upon his feet , struck his hands together , with a loud shout ; -- and then , the tears gushed out of his eyes -- and he shook from head to foot , with shame and vexation . 
` Now , ' said Pulaski -- riding up to Archibald , and saluting him with a motion of his keen weapon , that looked very like a play of fire work , for a moment , ` now ! 
said Archibald -- whistling the sword , in a circle of light -LRB- that one of the men swore was to be seen there , after he rode off , -RRB- about his head . 
La Fayette was riding slowly by , at the moment , and smiling , with that expression of calm benignity which made him the favourite of the whole army , reined up , and exchanged a few words in French , -LRB- which I did not well understand , then , -RRB- with Pulaski , whose eye flashed fire , as he exclaimed , in downwright English . 
He only wants age , ' -LRB- glancing at Archibald . -RRB- 
* A young fiery Pole , had got a footing in our army -- and -LRB- it was the count Pulaski , -RRB- Washington had permitted him to form a body of light horse , -- from that hour Archibald and he were inseparable . 
Pulaski was decidedly the best horseman , and the most daring , beyond all comparison , that I ever saw ; and , after awhile , he seemed to attach himself to Archibald , with a feeling more like the passion of brotherhood , than that of common friendship . 
Every day , were we taught some evolution that was knew -- or corrected in some mistaken practice of our own ; -- indeed , at last , the Count was pleased to say , I heard him as he sheathed his sword , after manœuvering us for a whole afternoon -- that he would put his legion - now - , man for man , against any upon this earth . 
Archibald 's mare stood upright , at the sound -- but not of her own accord , I imagine , for her flanks were reeking , dismally , when she passed me , a moment afterward . 
Archibald could not sit still -- and his mare seemed possessed with a devil ; in her effort to rush toward the quarter , where the white , fiery , transparent smoke evolved , and eddied , like that of a furnace , in a high wind -- with one uninterrupted reverberation , she struggled and snorted , and plunged , till the clear bright blood ran out of her nostrils , and frothed and foamed about her lips : there was rebellion in her very eyes . 
But Pulaski , with all his impetuosity , was a general ; and knew his duty too well , to hazard any movement , till he should be able to see with certainty , the operation of the enemy in the vapour below . 
The column wheeled -- the wind swept athwart their van , revealing them , like a batallion of spirits , breathing fire and smoke : he gave the signal -- Archibald repeated it -- Arthur -- and myself . 
In three minutes , we were ready for the word ; and , when Pulaski , shouting in a voice that thrilled through and through us , struck spurs to his charger -- it was half a minute -- so fierce and terrible was - his - charge , before we were able to come up with him . 
What could he mean ! 
The undaunted Pole rioted in the excess of his joy ; I remember how he passed me , again and again , recking with blood -- riding , absolutely , upon the very bayonets of the enemy ; and , at last , as they pressed upon him -- and horseman after horseman , fell from our saddles -- when we were all faint and feeble , and even Archibald was fighting on foot , over his beautiful mare , with Arthur battling over his head , we heard the joyful cry of - succour ! 
- ' and away he went again , breaking in upon them , as they were forming ; and trampling down whole platoons , in the charge , before a man could plant his bayonet , or bring his piece to an aim : and , the next moment , we were scouring over the ground , where I could yet see Archibald and Arthur battling it , with four or five of the enemy 's horse ; but our aspect , as we came thundering round upon them , proved sufficient . 
I saw that they were only a part of a squadron , whom we had not seen before , or who had but just been brought into action ; and that several were upon Archibald , who , while I was looking upon him , recled in the saddle , and took a blow , I thought , that cleft his head -- for his bear-skin cap flew , and his horse broke from the encounter , and dashed off to the right ; I followed , and soon came in contact with Weedon 's Virginia brigade , which soon relieved me from all apprehensions on my own account ; for the enemy fell before them , rank after rank , like flax in the blaze ; they were supported by a body of the Pennsylvania militia , near the head of whom , I saw La Fayette ; the reins all loose -- wounded in the arm -- his red scarf shot away , and streaming in the wind -- yet showing the same unaltered front ; and leading the raw militia up to the very eyes of the enemy , while a sheet of fire scorched their faces . 
I continued my course , and soon discovered a horseman staggering in the darkness -- whom , I knew , from the shape and bearing , to be Archibald , long and long before I could get to him . 
It was he -- and he was faint , very faint , from the loss of blood -- I -- I spoke to him , and was reaching out my hand to catch the rein of his unmanageable horse , when the animal stumbled -- rolled over -- snorted , so as to cover me with a shower of blood , and died . 
Archibald fell with her ; and for some minutes , I stood over him , utterly unable to hear if he answered me , or not ; such was the terrible noise from the place of contention -- so deafening -- so blinding ; and such , the low , deep , inarticulate sobbing of my poor brother : at last , however , O , how unspeakably dear was the first sound of his voice ! 
Again we were upon the river -- Archibald and I , sitting together ; and he , poor fellow , lamenting the loss of his mare , as if she had been his wife : by this . 
I mean , - not - , that he whistled and sang -- but , that he wept -- aye , wept , for the loss of the noble beast , and believed , I am sure , to his dying day , that she died of a broken heart . 
he said . 
While we were ruminating on the event and I was ; watching his full eyes , and almost mocking at his grief -- we heard a loud cry , and a plunge ; we turned , and saw Du Coudray , whom we instantly knew , by his beautiful uniform , in the middle of the current , upon the back of his furious horse : unluckily , in the animal 's terrour , he had entangled his feet in the reins , so as to keep his mouth and nose under . 
Archibald was near to him -- but not the nearest -- and , when he went down , he uttered a loud cry , threw himself half out of water , and sunk . 
Archibald plunged after him -- but it was too late -- Du Coudray had been swept away . 
Archibald was just able to sit his - horse , and felt particularly solicitous to do his duty again ; for Washington had been pleased to speak to him , face to face , for his good conduct ; and he was now to battle under Washington 's eyes . 
- In - hurrying rapidly over the events of this period , which related to the operations of the army , I have omitted to mention an incident , which , at the time , made little impression upon us , -LRB- Archibald and myself I mean -RRB- , but which , from the consequences that afterward grew out of it , became exceedingly important . 
About the time when these discontents first broke out , Archibald came accidentally in contact with a yankee named Copely , Chester Copely -- a strange , cold blooded fellow , with resolute features , light grey eyes , and a remarkably muscular , sinewy frame ; of the middle size -- with a little twist in his neck , to the left , that cost him many a pleasant gibe . 
There was something mysterious , too , in his manner toward Archibald ; for , contrary to his known habits , he seemedto court the acquaintance of my haughty brother . 
And in time -- such was the nature of his temper -- the cold , silent dominion that he exercised over all about him -- that Archibald himself , a creature , whose very tread was rebellion to all that looked like an assumption of authority over him -- became so infatuated with this man , that he would put up with any thing from him . 
Why he had sought Archibald 's acquaintance , was a matter of inquiry with all our division . 
He was known and shunned ; and , when they appeared together , there was a general expression of surprise . 
Archibald was not popular -- nor rich -- nor powerful . 
This thing had continued about two months , until Arthur and I had forgotten to speak of it , even to each other ; and the troop , who were passionately devoted to Archibald , had become , in a measure , reconciled to the cold evenness of temper -- so unlike what it had been -- that characterised him , and grew upon him , day by day , after his acquaintance with the Yankee . 
I have seen Copely , when I thought him handsome ; no , not handsome -- something better , higher , nobler . 
-- There was a remarkable expression of manhood and strength in his manner of sitting , standing , or even in folding his arms . 
His forehead was very high , but sunburnt , and hard . 
So knitted were his joints ; so compact his frame , so firm his tread , and so confident and cool were all his movements , that there was not a man in the army whom I would not sooner have encountered , than Chester Copely . 
It was just about this time , that he formed an acquaintance with Archibald ; and , there were hours , when , as they passed me in the dark , or at night , treading in time , upon the snow before our tents , I should have believed that - they - were brothers -- and I a stranger . 
But there was a cloud upon his face , at his return ; and his conferences with Archibald were more frequent than ever . 
Archibald smiled ; but his lips were agitated ; I saw - that - . 
He had been riding out with Archibald ; and , when they returned , whether it was that their faces had become flushed with the exercise , or that something had happened to disturb them , I knew not -- but I thought that I had seldom seen two heads more unlike each other , and , at the same time , so full of character . 
Copely too , had equipped himself in a new uniform , that laced athwart his broad chest , so as to exhibit all its manly proportions ; and the contrast between his marked and athletick frame -- and the delicate expressiveness of Archibald 's , would have been worthy of a painter . 
Arthur , Copely , a Captain Henshaw , -LRB- one of the most quiet creatures , that ever breathed , but the devil in battle -RRB- and myself , were forming a party in the new quarters of Archibald , which , by the united effort of the troop , after his recovery , had been made very comfortable . 
said Archibald -- I thought , with a slight agitation about the mouth . 
retorted Archibald , leaning toward him . 
said Archibald . 
` Copely , ' said Archibald , changing his whole manner . 
` You had better keep out of the way awhile ' -- said Archibald , with some emotion -- ` will you ? ' 
` And yet , dear Copely , ' said Archibald , drawing his chair up to him , and leaning upon his shoulder , while Copely 's stern features -- no not stern -- his steady features were red with the fire light -- ` of what avail will it be ? 
Just before the battle of Brandywine -- nay , before the encampment broke up at Morristown , Archibald and I , were tilting at a ring , in a large circular enclosure , which we called the riding school . 
Copely was there ; but he seemed to take no interest in the sport , until a Virginian -- he , of whom I have already spoken , Major Ellis -- as the tall , martial , blackeyed fellow , that was with Clinton at the time of his death , after a hard game , had borne off the ring , repeatedly , in better style than Archibald , who , before his illness , had no match in the troop . 
Archibald was vexed not a little , by the airs of the conqueror ; and , as he backed his horse just in front of me , and caught my eyes , he struck his blade into one of the wooden posts , with a force that astonished me ; saying , at the same time , that he could bear to be beaten by anybody better than that man . 
But Copely , turning to Archibald , asked him what he would give - him - to beat the victor ? 
said Archibald -- ` a pair of pistols such as have n't their match in the army . ' 
` Dismount a moment , ' said Copely , in reply , with his head on one side . 
Archibald could not believe him to be in earnest ; and none of us had ever seen him in - heat - , as he used to call it , when a good swordsman went handsomely through his divisions . 
said Archibald -- as Copely reined up the horse , and grasped the mane with his left hand , preparing to mount , as if on parade -- ` if you touch the stirrup , you 'll never touch the saddle . ' 
Copely made no reply ; but was in the seat , and running full speed at the ring , which he took off , and replaced at every successive evolution , till the whole circus rang with huzzaz . 
When , he dismounted , and returned to the same position , which he had occupied before , and there stood , with his arms folded , precisely as if he had no concern in what was going forward . 
Archibald could hardly forbear embracing him on the spot ; but the Major was overflowing with wrath and blackness . 
` We shall have a quarrel out of this ; ' said Archibald , turning a little pale , ` I perceive it . ' 
` - Yes - , ' said Copely , just as if he had been asked to take a pinch of snuff -- ` it is very probable . ' 
But nothing moved Copely -- nothing , though Archibald appeared exceedingly disturbed , and had been several times on the point of interfering . 
said Archibald , after a silence of nearly half an hour , as we were returning . 
The next day , he went with us , unarmed , contrary to all our remonstrances . 
` Pho , ' said he , coldly , ` if I arm , there will be bloodshed . 
They saw that Copeley was unarmed ; and their lips curled , as they called the attention of Major Ellis to the circumstance ; and he muttered something , which was too true -- but it made my heart giddy , for a moment , with passion -- and Archibald 's hand search for the hilt of his cimetar . 
` Gentlemen , ' said he , turning his eyes , leisurely , round the enclosure ; ` I see some new faces ; but are all here now , that were here yesterday ? ' 
was the reply , from twenty voices , at the same moment ; while the major , leaning his warlike person over the broad white mane of his charger , which swept abroad at every movement of the neck , like breakers flying in the wind , seemed delighted with the prospect ; a little more , I thought , than was natural , for his feet rattled in the stirrups . 
I looked at the major ; he was trying to draw his sabre -- and , every moment , I expected to see him fall from his unruly horse , as he bent over for the purpose ; while Archibald , with a keen eye , and spurs ready to strike into his charger , sat , with his blade glimmering in his hand , as if anticipating the result . 
But Copely -- I was more and more amazed at the expression of his countenance -- at every movement . 
I verily believe , that he would have stood with his arms folded , though Ellis had charged upon him , and the iron hoofs and glittering sword were above his eyes . 
He read it -- and reaching it to Archibald , whose hand shook now , though it did not shake when he received Clinton 's for himself -- he asked him what he thought of it ? 
said Archibald , returning it ; ` it is a matter for your own determination . ' 
Oadley , what think you of next week ? 
` As you please , ' said Archibald . 
But I might not do for the enemy , after he and I had met . 
-- Tell the major , that I will meet him , and all his friends , one after the other . 
-- Let 's see -- to day is friday ; any time that he pleases , after we have had one brush with the enemy ; and I have had a -- a -- after I have had my likeness taken . 
Is - he - married ? ' 
But the major did not attempt to horsewhip him , probably from the fear of our commander ; and Copely continued to go among them , just as usual , till the afternoon previous to his marriage , when I saw him embrace Archibald , in whose eyes , when I met him , were the traces of tears ; hot tears , such as are wrung from high hearts , by a pressure that scorches , while it exhausts them . 
But that very night , Copely returned again -- or rather , the next morning ; for , about two o'clock , I heard his voice , and saw Archibald throw on his watch cloak , and rejoin him ; -- they walked away together , and appeared , whenever they approached , by the sound of their voices , and the movement of Archibald 's shadow upon the wall , to be in earnest conversation . 
At last , they separated ; and , when Archibald had thrown himself upon the bench , with a dim lamp shining upon his face , I saw it working for several minutes like a convulsion . 
said I. ` He was to have been married to night , was he not ? 
What brought him back ? ' 
` - Death - , ' said he , in a low voice . 
He is not married . 
I saw Copely in the morning -- and fancied -- perhaps it was only fancy , that he was paler and sterner than I had ever seen him ; but perhaps he had grown paler by watching , as he had , week after week . ' 
And so the time passed away , his intimacy remaining about the same , till the battle of Brandywine , in which he fought , it is said , with the cool intrepidity of a veteran , spurring into the hottest fire , with a senseless disregard to danger , utterly unlike the distempered eagerness of young men that are brave -- and resembling , what one might look for in a creature , that felt himself to be immortal , invulnerable , and exceedingly potent . 
Archibald followed me . 
said he . 
said Archibald . 
` It was a great pity that he called -- I told him so . ' 
I shuddered -- gasped -- ` Archibald ! ' 
said I , ` - dear - Archibald ! 
-LRB- Archibald had been suspected of walking in his sleep , since the death of Clinton . ' -RRB- 
` Archibald ! ' 
` What , Oadley , what ! 
cried Archibald , coming up . 
A horseman here came up , saluted Archibald , and informed him that the Commander in Chief was on horseback , at the west battery -LRB- a little redoubt , hastily thrown up -RRB- waiting for him . 
From that moment , Archibald was a Major . 
` I am afraid , ' said he , faltering -- and I stopped my horse , immediately , that I might not lose a word -- ` that -- that I am not altogether blameless . 
Archibald joined me , with a countenance particularly thoughtful and solemn . 
said I. ` I am a Major , ' he replied . 
- -- I had not seen , or heard any thing of Archibald or Arthur . 
Archibald got a cut over the left temple , which soon healed ; but neither Pulaski , nor Arthur , nor myself , was wounded , though I had my bear skin cap , riddled like a honeycomb ; and my horse was bayonetted in three places ; and Arthur had stirrup and bridle shot away . 
And here , I can not forget to mention , that , a long time after the battle , Archibald and I rode over the ground again , step by step , each pointing out to the other , the spot where every vicissitude and accident had occurred to himself . 
I remember too , as if it were but yesterday , his pointing out the window at the left wing of - Chew 's house - , which a spirited young officer , under the very eye of Washington , attempted to set fire to ; and the very tree , under which he died a few moments after the attempt . 
But I have seen them that were -- and Archibald , I remember , after his escape . 
He never recovered from it . 
` They have poisoned me , ' he cried , ` I have seen powdered glass in the wretched food that they gave me , on board the Jersey prison-ship . 
This was all that he said . 
But he never forgot or forgave it ; and , to my knowledge , exacted a fearful retribution for it . 
He was squalid and filthy , I have been told , beyond all expression , when he returned ; but there was blood encrusted upon his face . 
- One - of his keepers had given up the ghost for his insult and cruelty ; and Archibald burst his chains at the same moment . 
Archibald 's brevet was confirmed ; Arthur was promoted to a captainship ; Copely to a lieutenant colonelship in the infantry , and I -- I remained a captain . 
Neither Archibald nor I , had seen our mother for fifteen months , though we frequently heard from her ; and he , I suspected at the time , more frequently than ever . 
Archibald used to contract his forehead , when I spoke of it , saying , that ` it was a hard fought , desperate , and unnecessary battle . ' 
He had began to study the scene of war at the time : I had made considerable progress in it . 
said he , ` had not Washington forgot himself , in his exasperation with Lee . 
-- since we manoeuvered in the snow , on the night of -- of -- ' ` No more , ' said Archibald , clapping spurs to his horse , ` we shall expect - you - . ' 
For some miles , not a word was spoken : for my part , I could not speak ; my heart was too full ; and as for Archibald , there was a look of deadly faintness , every now and then , in his face , which took away from me all power of questioning him . 
But Copely rode onward , with the same countenance ; his left arm , yet stiff from the shattering that Ellis had given it ; and his head turned , with that peculiar cast , on one shoulder , which , unless I had known that it proceeded from a sabre cut , I should have called affectation -- something of the arrogant and lordly , worn because it fitted the turn of his chest and fashion of his face : and it - did - fit both ; no man ever lived , on whom the patrician sat better than on Chester Copely . 
` Are you much acquainted in the city , ' said Copely to Archibald -- as they rode on , toward Philadelphia . 
exclaimed Copely , contracting his forehead . 
` But your brother -- he has been there more than once . ' 
There was something in his manner , that I never liked ; but his way of saying this , was inexpressibly provoking to me . 
` Yes , Sir , ' said I , riding up to him , and putting my hand upon his horse 's mane -- looking him steadily in the face , all the time -- ` Yes Sir ! 
his - brother - has been there , - more - than once . ' 
` Oh , you colour , ' said Archibald , smiling -- ` what is the meaning of this ? ' 
` He can answer you best , ' said Copely , reining up , to let me pass him . 
` I leave it to him . ' 
` Sir , ' said I. ` Nonsense , brother , ' cried Archibald , leaping between us . 
` Oadley , ' said he , giving me his hand . 
Archibald smiled , and stooped over his horse 's neck to conceal it . 
Archibald threw up , in a fine martial style , and cantered ahead . 
` You look very pale , ' said he -- in the same tone of voice . 
- -- Look at me Oadley , stately and cold as you are -- honest , as you - appear - to be -- have you not broken the heart of one proud girl -- wantonly , and like a child -- visited another -- I do not ask you how , nor where -- with . ' 
I would have slain you ; but a similarity of manner led me to make the attempt upon Archibald -- I attacked him with a sword . ' 
She loves Archibald -- and him only ; and he , O , that men will trample on what would give lustre and fragrance to a death bed ! 
-- he shuts up his eyes , and turns his back upon her -- Hey ! 
As he said this , he dashed along side of Archibald , and left me to my meditations . 
I looked at Archibald -- and wondered at the great manhood of his countenance . 
I looked upon them , followed them , listened to them , with pleasure : wondering , all the day long , at the patience and greatness of Archibald -- his forbearance , when assailed -- first in life , and then in love . 
This accounted for their testimony ; his distress , agony , unutterable agony , when Copely returned unmarried . 
` Are you for an adventure , brother , ' said Archibald -- turning about in the saddle , and leaning , with one hand upon the crupper -- till I had come up with him . 
We did follow him , in a dead silence , for more than an hour , through a wilderness of beauty and damp greenness . 
now , ' -- he said , coming out , suddenly , upon a circular , green , turf flat , -- while the stars broke down upon us , all at once , as it appeared to me , emerging I suppose , from the darkness of the wood . 
` There was an air of seriousness in his manner -- and yet , a dash of pleasantry . 
But Archibald looked troubled ; he did not understand it , I saw ; and , when Copely fired off a pistol , suddenly , as we sat -- he started , as if it had gone through his head . 
cried Copely , dashing over the green , at full speed , with Archibald at his heels , ` - forward - . ' 
Archibald dropped the reins , and tried to speak -- I saw that he did -- for he caught Copely 's arm ; and , after awhile , repeated it -- as if -- poor fellow -- he knew not what he said . 
` Stop Copely , ' said Archibald , grasping his arm -- ` what are you about ? 
` Yes , ' he replied . 
said Archibald . 
He tapped at the door , which instantly opened , and , at the first step , a young woman threw herself into his arms , sobbing and clinging to him , like a delirious creature . 
A sudden giddiness and darkness rushed upon me ; and Archibald , who stood like a statue for a moment , caught my hands , in silence . 
` Archibald , ' she cried , breaking away from me . 
` O , Archibald , we have not met since -- since ' -- she could not utter another word -- she was choking . 
` No , dear Mary , ' he answered , pressing her wet forehead , with his lips , ` but let us forget - that - -- look up , cousin , look up ! 
She caught Archibald 's hand to her lips , looking all the time into his face , with streaming eyes -- as if dying to ask some question , but dreading to hear the answer . 
Archibald anticipated her -- while he stood , as in a trance , before the bashful woman , so full of love , and love 's inquietude , that every limb was eloquent with expression . 
You have taken my breath away , ' said he -- ` I should not have known you . 
The poor girl was overpowered -- and would have fallen , in the sweet tumult that followed , had not Archibald caught her , and gently led her to a seat , where she and he sat , wondering at each other , in speechless admiration . 
Mary sat looking him in the eyes , directly facing me -- her gentle lips just moving , now and then , as if her heart were stirred , and they stirred with it -- the bright tears running down her cheeks , drop after drop ; her mild eyes wide open , and overflowing with lustre . 
` You tell me Archibald , that I am altered -- but you ! 
I had a thousand things to say to you -- to ask you -- but , dear Archibald -- I can not remember any thing but that you are here -- alive -- and strong -- and that I have not seen you for many a year -- and -- ' Just then , the beautiful apparition that had fallen upon the neck of Copely , in the deep , awful , hushed expression of devout tenderness , lifted her head , and dwelt , with her eyes shut , and head turned aside , as if in prayer , upon the bosom , against which her young cheek leant ; again and again , had I seen her pale orbs opening for a moment -- upon his -- that lightened over them ; and then , a convulsive , involuntary pressure would follow ; and she would sink down again , as if -- altogether too happy for expression -- and too weak to conceal her happiness . 
It was humiliating to be so utterly overlooked ; and , for a moment , I forgot that Mary Austin had seen me , many times since she had seen Archibald , who had been her school fellow from the cradle , till about a year or two before the inroad of the Hessians ; -- and that Ellen Sampson -- the spiritualized Ellen Sampson -- was the cousin of him , upon whose manly bosom she was leaning . 
- ' cried Archibald . 
At that name , Archibald moved back a step -- drew a breath , that appeared to shatter his chest ; -- his nostrils dilated , and he half raised his hands as if to cover his face ; and then dashed them away , as if indignant at his own want of self command . 
` Love her ! ' 
said Ellen , half terrified at the earnest , lofty expression of his voice . 
` - Except - , ' locking her hands in his , and smiling . 
` I understand you , ' replied Archibald , with a look of deep distress . 
He loved Lucia , because I loved her ; because she was like himself , and chiefly because Ellen appeared to have forgotten him , and attached herself , heart and soul , to you . 
And she -- the rash , thoughtless girl , glorying in her own disinterestedness and magnanimity -- went , bound with flowers , to martyrdom , in the hope of promoting - his - happiness . 
It would be idle to detail the series of wild , extravagant inventions , by which she brought Copely to declare himself to -- to -- -LRB- he coughed , with great emphasis -- and I knew well what it was for -- he could not pronounce her name , and was willing to make me believe that a sudden fit of coughing was the reason -- but no , the impediment was in his heart , -RRB- ` to - Miss - Arnauld . ' 
` Well , then , ' he replied , a little impatiently , and colouring , ` Miss - Lucia - . ' 
` What a result might be expected , ' said Archibald , half smiling , ` from a chymical combination of two such hearts . 
said Archibald ; ` wait ten minutes , and I will go with you . ' 
- can - you - equip yourself as quickly , ' said he , to me . 
` Yes , ' said Archibald , even for the battle -- ten minutes are enough for John , devotions and all . ' 
` I am very faint , ' said Archibald ; ` is this Mr. Arnauld 's ? ' 
Ere I could get my breath , I found myself , standing in the middle of a large room , with Archibald , leaning on my arm , and every seat occupied ; the walls studded with eyes and lips ; and all about me , a mortal silence . 
said he , in a low voice ; ` shall we deserve their upbraiding ? 
There stood Archibald , leaning upon the mantel piece , fronting the capricious , wild Ellen , about whom , a score of fellows had gathered , their eyes dancing an accompaniment to her voice . 
Archibald appeared very absent ; and she , I could perceive , was malicious enough to observe it . 
In another part of the room , went Copely and Clara , in deep conversation ; was she listening to him ? 
I believed not , for , as she passed along , at the further extremity of the room , he relinquished her arm , for a moment , to join Ellen , beckoning Archibald to go up to Clara ; but Clara did not seem to perceive the absence of one , nor the approach of the other ; and I -- while I was looking at her , and wondering if the tall , queenly creature , whose very step was full of dominion , could possibly be the same that had once leaned , overpowered , upon my shoulder , and sobbed there , as if she were dying . 
Her lips trembled , and she gave him her hand ; but , would have withdrawn it , I am sure , had she seen Archibald 's face at the moment . ' 
` No , ' said , Lucia -- ` I do not know him , and have no desire to know him . 
-LRB- addressing the sprightly creature , who came forward , half on tip toe , at that moment , while Copely fell back , to enjoy the luxury of contemplation ; and I saw his fine eyes roving over her round beautiful waist , delicate feet , and voluptuous bosom , with the feeling of a husband , sanctified , and delighted . -RRB- 
I was silent a moment , and then said -- ` - You - have not seen Archibald ' -LRB- I felt a convulsive contraction of her arm -- -RRB- ` will you see - him ? 
You 'll go with me ; I will take care that Archibald -- your brother -- shall attend - her - . 
Let Archibald and Lucia be friends . 
Tell him this . 
If he have the strength , the forbearance , to be content with that , we will renew our acquaintance . 
carelessly -- carelessly , Oadley ; leaving me to die , a broken hearted woman . 
I can forgive it all -- forget it all -- except that -- give me your hand Oadley . 
We found Archibald parting with Lucia , as we entered ; a general expression of cordiality in all eyes , even in hers ; and I was welcomed , with a tinge of shame , and a little pride ; but that was soon over , and I turned to depart . 
said Archibald , ` heaven bless you all ! 
` If I might , ' he replied , taking her hand reverentially , and gazing on her dark , wet lashes , as if he would have given the world , only to touch them with his own ; ` if I might come and go , Lucia , when and where I pleased , I would spend every leisure hour with you . ' 
` With all my heart , ' he replied ; ` to-morrow evening ? 
` Yes ' said Archibald ; ` we - will - dine with you , to-morrow . ' 
said he , passing out , and resting his fine eyes on her . 
I saw that all admired him ; and that her heart was too full for a word . 
Was it shame and penitence , for having so lightly estimated his proud spirit ? 
` Let us be gone , ' said Lucia , taking Archibald 's arm , and moving to the door ; ` we shall return about candle light , mother . ' 
Her mother smiled , shook hands with Archibald , and lifted her gentle eyes upward , as a mother would over her own child . 
I know not what his emotions were ; but mine were delicious . 
You smile -- ' ` I - do - , for my feelings toward Archibald are of the same nature . 
She loves him , I verily believe . 
Nay , it is probable that she would not scruple to tell - him - so ; for , she is , as I have already told you , unlike any other woman that I ever saw or heard of ; but , let him not hope . 
I held back , and observed that there was a troubled stateliness in her tread ; and that Archibald occasionally made a full stop , for a moment , and almost faced her in his earnestness . 
At last , she made some proposition , in a low voice , to which , he did not immediately reply : she repeated it . 
He shook his head : but after a few minutes , he stood fronting her , with both his hands clasped , and , as we were approaching them , I heard him say , very distinctly . 
Archibald and Lucia -- Copely and Elenour were out of sight . 
` Dead , she might -- but , if I were not sure of my own strength , I would hang myself up at the first lamp post -- or , I -- ' ` For heaven 's sake , dear Oadley , do not talk so . 
` Where is Archibald ? ' 
` - Where is Archibald -- and Lucia - . ' 
` Pray , ' said Archibald rising , with a countenance that struck me -- ` shall I propose it , now ? ' 
` My dear brother , ' said Archibald , turning to me -- ` and you Clara ; I pray you to hear me , for a moment , patiently ; and you Copely ; and you Ellen . ' 
Somebody may snap her up , before I have turned the corner , else -- ' ` Are - you - ready , Oadley ? ' 
I looked to Archibald , wondering what he would say : he was holding Lucia 's hand . 
` He speaks to - you - , brother , ' said Archibald , ` what say you ? ' 
But Archibald , halloo ! 
Archibald halted , as if on parole ; faced about , with an air of ill disguised suffering -- and Copely continued , taking Lucia 's hand , who left it passively at his disposal -- and placing it in his . 
He trembled ; and her full eyes quivered in their sockets . 
Archibald bowed his face upon her hand ; held it a moment ; and , when he raised it , I saw that his nostrils were swimming in blood . 
said Lucia , faintly -- very faintly ; the words just reached my hearing , like the last murmur of sweet lips dying ; ` - would - you , dear Archibald ? ' 
He wiped away the blood from his lips ; the flesh of his forehead shivered in the moonlight ; and he stood , with his sublime eyes upturned to the sky , as if a deadly commotion were going on within his heart ; his face altered , visibly , till it was like the face of a dead man . 
Again he bowed his face upon her hand , but was unable to speak . 
Archibald attempted to raise her -- but it was too late . 
We were inconceivably terrified ; and he , poor fellow -- he raved over her , like a distracted creature , as she lay , with her head in Clara 's lap . 
The load is lifted -- I am very faint -- I -- Archibald , let me lean upon your arm . ' 
He approached , ghastly as a drowned creature , and , I heard her repeat in the ear of Clara -- ` now I shall die contented -- I -- I am - so - happy . ' 
` Well then , ' said Copely , wiping off the first tears that he had ever shed in his life , I am sure -- ` I suppose that we are to take all that for a consent . ' 
` - Never - , ' said Lucia -- Archibald reeled away at the sound ; but , instantly recovered himself , and walked apart with us . 
` Will you not join us ' -- said she , kindly , extending her hand at the same time -- ` I -- ' ` Stop Lucia , ' he said , in an altered voice -- so unlike his own , five minutes before , that my blood thrilled , as if a stranger had suddenly spoken among us . 
Archibald , I remember , turned pale ; and , when I arose to examine into the cause , mocked at me -- saying that he had heard it before -- aye , the very night before the death of our father . 
Archibald . 
I am sorry for his death , very sorry ; more sorry that he died so suddenly ; and yet , more sorry , infinitely more , that he died by - your - hand . 
Archibald , no ! 
Suffice it to know -- and I pray you all to remember it -- whatever become of me -- that is a reason worthy of Archibald , worthy of - me - . 
` Blood he had seen , could see -- unmoved -- but then -- ` Twas shed in COMBAT or was shed by men . 
said Archibald , interrupting me -- while Ellen glanced her blue eyes at him , with an expression of intense alarm . 
I turned , lest Archibald should have heard it ; but he was occupied with Lucia , upon a distant sofa . 
` True , true , dear Madam , ' said Copely ; his under lip quivering as he spoke ; ` and , for that reason , I have no hope . 
But yesterday , or the day before , Archibald would have died , ere he had permitted the thought of such an event to enter his heart . 
To day , he would die , and so would she , I am sure , rather than hear the sound of it aloud . 
We arrived on Tuesday about noon , and found all the parties ready , except Arthur , who was hourly expected ; but , I observed that , whenever I spoke of him , the eyes of Archibald , were upon me , with a strong expression , until I could no longer support it ; and asked him the reason . 
The two brides were ready -- the good parson about to stand up ; sudden and fitful interruptions -- forced remarks -- and a painful , solemn silence succeeding to each , had rung the preparation for every heart , when Archibald entered , and announced the approach of Arthur , with a lady . 
We have carefully avoided inviting any body ; and -- ' ` Arthur will help to make a third couple , ' said Archibald , smiling . 
` Pray , ' said Ellen , stepping up to Archibald -- ` is - she - prepared ? 
-LRB- Archibald stepped back ;-RRB- and you , my daughter ? 
- even Archibald , who knows me best ; even Ellen , my own , my wedded one . 
Archibald stand back ! 
We all crowded to the window , and saw Archibald dismount . 
We had not missed him -- and Lucia , where was she ? ' 
The next moment , he entered -- his hair all in disorder -- his forehead covered with sweat -- his deep blue eyes strangely disordered in their lustre . 
He bowed hastily , and said something , in the way of apology for leaving us -- something , that none of us could understand , or recollect , after he had gone ; glanced rapidly round the room , as if in search of somebody -- ` Lucia , ' said he , ` where is she ? ' 
said Archibald , advancing toward her , and offering her his hand . 
` All , ' said Archibald . 
We sprang from our seats -- the women screamed , and we burst open the door , through which Archibald and Lucia had passed . 
The great doors , that opened into the hall , from the portico , were wide open ; the lamps blazing ; and , at the foot of the steps , there stood a horse , saddled and bridled , with the gate open behind him . 
It was Archibald . 
The room behind him , the walls beyond , were all black as midnight . 
As he approached me , aiming blindly toward the portico , I pronounced his name , with a sensation of unutterable alarm ; but he heard me not . 
His hair stood upright . 
There was blood upon his lips -- and sweat upon his forehead , as he went by me , with his eyes wide open , without seeing me . 
Archibald passed on -- in the general consternation ; descended the steps ; leaped into the saddle ; and was gone , ere any other voice , than , that of wail and lamentation was heard . 
I had only time to see , as Copely turned fiercely round , and ordered - his - horse , that blood was upon Lucia 's hands , and a print upon her forehead as of bloody lips -- when -- When -- O , righteous heaven ! 
She was rational -- and told us that we had seen Archibald , she believed , for the last time . 
Was it his blood -- then -- - his ? 
he replied -- shaking the dust from him , but where is Rodman ? 
I am Archibald Oadley 's brother . 
` Did you overtake Archibald . ' 
` Almost , and called to him , again and again ; but , he rode on , gallopping as if the avenger of blood were at his heels ; and my horse became unmanageable -- and I , hoarse from shouting -- and -- ' ` At last , I lost my patience -- ` stop ! 
Archibald Oadley , ' I cried , ` stop ! 
- Oadley ! 
` Do you know , ' said I , almost choking , with the thought of Archibald 's escape ; and Copely 's too -- I may say , for , had he wrought Archibald 's doom , I should have slain him , I am sure . 
Oadley -- what ! 
Our distress was inconceivable , for a time -- but Arthur returned , at last , with the intelligence that Archibald had been seen , in the company of a strange man , riding toward the wood -- in the same attitude -- still at full speed , but sitting upright , sustaining himself in the saddle as no mortal man could , if he were wounded . 
Upon it , was scrawled , in the hand writing of Archibald , these words . 
Heaven bless you all -- Archibald . 
` How did he look ? ' 
Poor Archibald ! 
It was not in the hand writing of Archibald ; but there was an authority within , signed by Washington himself , upon which , was an endorsement -- that we knew . 
- That - was by Archibald . 
` You will see Archibald , ' said she , ` give him that lock of hair . 
He will prize it . 
You need have no fear that he will not . 
I know his heart . 
He knows mine , now . 
Watch over him , my brother ; you - are - my brother now , I feel it . 
` Because , ' said she -- ` I love Archibald -- love him , O , man ! 
said Archibald , throwing himself into my arms , with a sob that shook his whole frame , almost to dislocation -- ` Brother ! ' 
Poor Archibald . 
many in his countenance , that had terrified me ; but , none that resembled this that I now saw . 
He was wan as if he had risen from the bed of death , his temples sunken , his lips blue ; and his eyes beautifully bright and thoughtful . 
` No -- no , Archibald ; but after she recovered . ' 
There is not such a woman upon this earth -- so lofty -- so -- ' ` Then why abandon her , Archibald ? ' 
I did , and was terrified : his eyes shot fire ; and were blood shot , with the convulsion that my words had called up . 
` I -- I ' -- -LRB- his voice grew fainter -- gentler -- he put his hands upon his heart . -RRB- 
` Archibald , ' said the untractable man , as he put out his hands to him -- ` do not curse me -- do not -- I can not bear it . ' 
` Say no more , my excellent friend , ' said Archibald . 
You are a good shot -- see here , ' -LRB- raising the flap of his coat , and showing where the ball had gone through . -RRB- 
` I beg your pardon Oadley . 
` Vapours , ' said Archibald , with a sickly smile -- ` you are newly married . ' 
` I am glad of it , ' said Archibald , fervently ; and we immediately separated , each to arrange his arms , shake hands with a few brave fellows , and receiving their congratulations . 
Till the twenty-third , we were in a state of continual preparation ; Pulaski dashing , hither and thither , night and day , with his men ; and exercising them , forever , in the broadsword ; and Archibald , with the same death struck countenance , mingling impatiently in all the storm of preparation , as if to drown the suffering within him . 
And often , while Archibald and I were treading the rounds , in the deep midnight , we would be covered all at once , with sand ; or , made to reel with the wind of an exploding bumb or passing can not ball ; till , at last , it was really wonderful how unaffectedly careless we became . 
` We are to storm the works , ' cried Archibald , rushing into my arms , one morning . 
` And Pulaski swears that he will ride into them , on horseback , if we will follow him . ' 
` Follow him ! ' 
- ' ` Tomorrow -- immediately , ' he replied . 
Archibald 's pale forehead was upturned to the starlight , and his wet eyes shining , as I never saw them shine before ; my bosom torn upon , for the heat had been intolerable , and I would fain have slept , till the trumpet called us to the assault . 
` Brother , ' said Archibald , after a long silence , putting his hand upon mine , and leaning his elbow on the turf . 
` brother , ' said Archibald , ` when the blood is cool -- the air so still , and the stars so patiently looking down upon us , to hear the blood rattling at our feet ; and know that the very sound which has passed over - our - heads , harmlessly , has carried an immortal creature , maimed and broken into the presence of his God . ' 
` The same gun , ' said Archibald , ` a little more , or a little less powder , has done all this terrible work . 
He was right . 
` Archibald -- dear Archibald ! ' 
` And the dead too , ' said Archibald . 
echoed several voices ; where , we had not time to enquire , for , Archibald 's horse stood stamping the platform at a little distance . 
In the mean time , however , I had the happiness to hear that Archibald had escaped miraculously , after exposing himself with unprecedented hardihood . 
For a moment I had seen him -- it was after we had entered the entrenchments , engaged , on foot , with an officer of the enemy . 
It was a long time , and I was cruelly wasted and disfigured , when Archibald and I met . 
Yet , he was unaltered -- the same deadly paleness ; the same settled , calm , awful insensibility . 
` Return , ' said he , ` be a comfort to our mother -- bless your wife -- and bear my love and reverence -- do you mark me ? 
The first that I took , was from Archibald . 
` Well then , ' said I , hiding the other letters under my pillow ; ` the first is from Archibald . 
` You can answer better for Archibald , than I ; but - she - loves him more than any earthly thing , ' said Clara . 
` Then why torture him so , eternally ? ' 
I believe that he loves her devoutly . 
I - know - that she loves him , with all the elevation and sincerity of her nature ; that she wails day and night , for her transgression ; nay , that Archibald was never dearer to her , than when he treated her so coldly -- who could brook it ? 
that was so sought after , idolised and wondered at -- as he did , about the time of her acquaintance with Clinton . ' 
I confess , ' she added -- faltering -- ' I confess that there is something unaccountable and dark in the sudden alienation of her heart from Archibald , that , to my mind , has never been sufficiently explained , by her resentment for his coldness ; the fascination of Clinton ; nor even by the natural waywardness of woman . 
I allow much to her pride ; much to wounded self-love ; still more to her desire of humbling Archibald ; but all can not , does not satisfy me . 
She had loved Archibald ; she might love another ; but I have always thought , and always shall think , that she never - did - love another . ' 
she said , in confirmation , ` turn away her face , when he entered -- and push him away , just because she heard Archibald 's voice in the court yard ? ' 
there is only one being upon this earth , worthy of Archibald -- only one , worthy of Lucia Arnauld . ' 
` Poor , dear Archibald , ' said Clara , covering her face , with her hands . 
` O , Archibald , Archibald ! ' 
-- I look back upon my past life , with a strange , melancholy wonder -- much that I have done , appears to have been done by some other Archibald Oadley ; and not by me . 
He deputises me to give his love to you all ; and to say to - you - , Oadley -- and to - our 's - and - your 's - -- heaven have mercy on all of them , and particularly , on - mine - and - reform - her -- if it be not too late . ' 
I saw him fall ; but Archibald has just given me a particular account of the transaction , with an air of pleasantry , that made me scold him . 
` I saw him , ' said he , when the bullet struck his heart ; he was at full speed . 
Yet he kept on , for a whole minute , and went completely through two divisions of the broadsword , as I am a living man , before he fell : the saddle turned , and the horse broke away from under him -- the saddle-cloth shot to ribbons , and dripping with blood . 
` But I expected it , ' said Archibald , ` for , in his jocular way , I heard him , the morning before the attack , while newly arranging a part of the troop , in consequence of sickness and continual battle , I heard him order all the ladies in the front rank . ' 
- In - my last , I spoke of the letter , which Lucia had received from Archibald . 
She loved then -- she loved me , Archibald Oadley . 
` Lucia , ' said I ; ` have you answered Archibald 's letter ? ' 
Nay , not yet ; give me your boy , your little Archibald , ' -LRB- for so , we had first agreed to call him , till Archibald requested him to be called James , for what reason , I know not , -RRB- ` and read it while I am away . ' 
` You are deeply to blame , Archibald . 
Yes , I understand you -- Archibald : I can not deceive you . 
I could have fallen upon your bosom and wept , before the whole world , Archibald ; as I live , I could , with simple joy , at the change . 
and their raillery , when , had you but entered the room , you would have put them and all their idols to shame , with a single word Archibald , this is the truth . 
It was this , that made me turn away my face , and weep ; for I - did - weep , Archibald . 
Said you -- O , Archibald ! 
Archibald -- I am no wanton . 
Believe me -- O , believe me , Archibald ! 
At last -- O , Archibald -- I could weep myself blind at the thought -- but , it has been told once , and I can only allude to it . 
I was not fully aware of my danger till -- I found that , should he forget himself , I had no hope left . 
He was in my room ; how should that be explained ? 
-- again , he was there -- and again -- for I dared not provoke him -- yet I was not altogether unworthy , no , not - then - -- nor -- no , Archibald -- not till -- faint with excess of terrour , and passion , from some slight of yours , I awoke from a troubled dream about you , and found myself in the arms of a man -- I shrieked -- I -- ' ` No matter -- you have known it all . 
Archibald -- I thank God that I have lived to hear the proposal ; to see it in black and white . 
But I thank God , yet more devoutly that he has given me the strength to resist the temptation ; and to say -- as I do say -- no , Archibald , no -- did I love thee less , it might be . 
Archibald is taken prisoner . 
But Tarleton , would that Arthur or Archibald could meet him , face to face , for a few minutes : my notion is that he would never get through his six divisions again . 
I say nothing for myself , for this twist in my neck has become confoundedly troublesome of late ; and I am nothing to be compared with Archibald , as a swordsman . 
By the way -- Archibald looks altogether better than when we wrote last , and we begin to have hope ; but he has none ; or , if he have any , he will not own it ; he only smiles , patiently , when we speak of what - may - be , like one that feels the principles of vitality going out , one after the other , in his heart . ' 
But Archibald , after having rallied a few , was attracted by the cries of women , to one of the dwellings ; he stove in the door of the house ; and rode , through and through it , with about a dozen men ; and there , in the heat and smoke , on horseback and on foot , with the pistols ringing in at his ears ; the enemy without firing in the windows ; and the wretched women , within , shrieking - in the arms of their ravishers , the gallant , glorious Archibald set fire to the house ; slew , with his own hand one of the ruffians ; and , amid a general hourra and explosion , rescued three lovely creatures , in the moment of their extremest peril . 
What shall be his name -- Archibald , I say . ' 
I must stop -- it may be -- it - may - -- O , God , have compassion upon me , and avert the owen ; it - may - be , that , while I am jesting about my boy , I have neither boy -- nor girl -- nor wife -- Oadley , farewell -- I can not write another line , my heart is too full . 
Still we had no news from Archibald ; nay , we knew not whether he was living or dead . 
At last , there was a dreary interval of some months during which , we heard no direct intelligence , whatever , from Arthur , Copely , or Archibald . 
Archibald has struck a blow that -- ' ` Archibald , ' said all of us , together . 
` Archibald has struck a blow , that the enemy will never forget , to his dying day . 
Tarleton himself narrowly escaped ; Washington was so close to him , at one time , that they exchanged several cuts , with what effect , we do not yet know . 
My last , I hope , apprised you of Archibald 's situation . 
You will scarcely know him . ' 
Copely can not write , till his hand is better ; he orders me to say , all that mortal man should say to such a ` pestilent little creature , -LRB- his very words -RRB- as ' -- ` - Me ! 
maybe you 're his wife , that he used to talk about in his fever -- his -- ah -- very well ! 
I say nothen ; but Archibald Oadley is the boy , what might make any woman turn pale -- he -- he -- hey ? 
-- I -- ' ` You spoke of his escape -- how was it ? ' 
` Archibald ; ' cried she , starting from her chair . 
Her father ran out : and , while we stood awaiting her return , and wondering at her sudden delirium -- the two husbands unable to move , from their clinging wives , Archibald came in , faint , and pale -- following Mrs. Arnauld , with the lifeless body of Lucia in his arms , just I had seen them years before . 
Archibald looked like a ghost -- so pale -- so ghastly pale , and thin ; but withal , strangely beautiful ; as if , while his body thinned and waned -- the spirit of him , became more visible -- as if , the nearer it was to death , the body became but the more and more intensely animate with his spirit . 
It was , as if his heart and soul were transparent before me . 
` She is dead , ' said Archibald , with a patient lifting of his deep blue eyes ; ` she is dead , brother -- ' I took his hand . 
It was cold as death ; and when I looked upon his face , the wan forehead -- hollow temples , ridged all over with his large blue veins -- his fresh lips , alternately white as ashes , and then , of a deep blood colour , as the rapid emotion of his heart came and went , hither and thither , over his face -- I felt as if I were suffocating . 
` Yes -- yes , ' he replied , in a low voice , bending down , over the broken hearted mother , upon whose lap the beautiful , dead face of his beloved lay , like that of one suddenly struck down in prayer . 
-- ' Her eye-lids quivered , at the sound of his voice : a sweet smile broke , like that of a sleeping infant , about her gentle lips , hitherto so haughty ; and their motion was audible , as if they articulated his name . 
said Archibald , holding her hand , to his heart , with convulsive eagerness ; and stooping over her , as if to catch the first murmur of her mouth . 
She drew a long breath , half opened her eyes , while the tears ran slowly down through her redundant hair , upon which her face lay , half buried -- and pronounced his name . 
A slight shivering followed ; and , in a few minutes , amid the dead stillness of all about , she arose , and sat up , and put her two hands into his -- saying . 
` Archibald , I can now die in peace -- I have only waited for you . ' 
` I have come to you for no other purpose , than to -- ' ` To close - my - eyes , Archibald ? 
He hath upheld me , till now , that I might see Archibald -- dear Archibald , once more . 
O , Archibald ! 
` And I , ' said he , in a solemn , sweet voice -- like one summoned by something invisible -- dreading it not , and ready to depart , whenever it shall please heaven . 
is there no hope -- none for - you - , Archibald ? ' 
said the dying girl , kissing his hands with uplifted eyes -- and watching the changes of his face . 
- ' said Archibald , calmly -- putting his hand through his brown beautiful hair , and wringing out the moisture , as if it had been the heavy March rain . 
Archibald passed the window , just as she was going to reply , on horseback . 
His motion was very feeble and wayward . 
said Lucia -- locking her hands ; ` when he rode by that window before , he was younger , by many years , in reality ; he appeared , ha , how much younger ! 
But sorrow will have way -- and where hath she wrought so unsparingly , as upon the countenance of Archibald ? 
He may be an honest man -- a skilful one ; but , I know better than he , what that malady is , whose approach is - felt - by the sufferer ; and - known - to be death . 
Poor Archibald ! 
I saw the movement of the animal , but it was too late ; and I was unable to move hand or foot , in my terrour , till I saw Archibald , by a sudden effort , which amazed me , rise in the stirrups , and throw himself off , as the furious horse , ran snorting and plunging toward that identical tree , where Archibald had been well nigh dashed to pieces , years before . 
-- and another -- with Arthur and Copely : -- and we were left , in the terrible suspense , that followed , for several minutes , till we saw Archibald returning on foot , supported between Copely and a servant . 
dear Archibald ? ' 
` Not in the least , ' he replied , wiping the sweat from his forehead -- ` not in the least ! 
` It - is - , indeed , ' said Copely , dashing his hand over his eyes . 
After sitting and wondering at her power and loveliness , for half an hour , I should think , without uttering a word , or scarcely breathing aloud , I heard Archibald 's voice in the next room , and the sound of lamentation . 
` I - have - been on horseback for the last time , my dear mother , ' said he , ` and why should I tremble to say so ? 
Archibald shook his head . 
Archibald bowed . 
` Assuredly , ' said Archibald , with serious eyes . 
- ' said Archibald mildly . 
Archibald 's countenance changed . 
` Go with me to Lucia , ' said he -- ` all of you -- but first , Hanson , that sword is your 's -- the horse -- that I give to Copely -- furniture and all -- I -- ' ` Brother ! ' 
Archibald paused ; and lifted his hands in admiration , as he approached her . 
he exclaimed , smiling , ` I have never seen you so like what you were , that night , when your tresses were loaded with peach blossoms and -- ah ! 
Lucia gave it to him , with a look of doubtful astonishment . 
` Do not be agitated , ' said Archibald -- ` our friends complain of us . 
said Lucia , firmly -- ` come nearer , Archibald . 
He said something , in a low whisper -- at which a convulsive , tumultuous , bright emotion passed over her whole face . 
A murmur or two escaped her : she kissed him , mouth to mouth -- and the tears sprang sparkling to her open eyes -- and then , livid and purple flashes shot over her forehead , as he continued , rising from her embrace , and saying , in a cheerful tone -- ` We will be sad no longer , love . 
I can not say that their tread was stronger , in general , or their voices fuller - of tenderness and strength -- but , at times , they walked as in the morning of their days ; and Lucia , for the first time , during many years , sang to us , night after night , till the period approached for the departure of Copely and Arthur -- when we all grew melancholy again -- all but Archibald and Lucia , I mean . 
` I shall not go with them , ' said Archibald , to their questioning . 
Archibald and Lucia were constantly together , and walking , whenever the weather would permit , for several hours at a time . 
My heart yearned toward them ; and , while I saw a gradual and sure improvement in Lucia 's health , I fancied that I could perceive a like one , in that of Archibald . 
` I am thinking , ' said Clara -- leaning affectionately upon my shoulder , below her , with my new wooden limb over a chair ; while Archibald and Lucia passed the window , locked arm in arm -- their faces bright with intelligence -- ` I am thinking , that they are less obstinately resolved on death , than they used to be . ' 
Archibald knows all ; -- - all ! 
- -- Perhaps -- I speak it cautiously , - perhaps - we may bring about a reconciliation , that will restore her , the haughty and romantick , noble minded girl , to her own good opinion ; and give to Archibald , that inconceivably lofty and wayward spirit , something to love all his life long . ' 
It is so like - him - . 
Archibald , come hither -- your hand . ' 
He obyed , and gave them his hand . 
` Living or dead , ' said Copely , with a solemnity , that shook me awfully -- ` - living or dead - , Archibald Oadley and Lucia Arnauld , God meant that you should be man and wife . 
Lucia coloured , and faltered out some inarticulate words ; but , Archibald was firm and unyielding , and his forehead was serene -- very . 
` Archibald , - farewell -- farewell ! 
` My friends , I ' -- said Archibald , with a steady countenance , stepping out to meet them -- ` I -- God knows if we shall ever meet again -- I - believe - -LRB- emphatically repeating it -RRB- I - believe - that we shall not . 
` Nor I , ' said Copely , compressing his lips , but I would rather have an ocean of blood rolling over me , than that -- - that - Oadley , which spun out of the brain of a scoundrel , whom I shot -- I -- -LRB- his voice grew deep and terrible , as it had been anciently ; and his wife shut her eyes , while he spoke -RRB- -- I am not easy about - that - -- why , I know not . 
But -- ' ` Think seriously -- prayerfully of it , my friend , ' said Archibald -- ` and now , farewell -- farewell ! 
Archibald , ' said Lucia , lovingly , with her arm carried athwart his face , while he sat near her , with his hand resting on her soulder -- ` and that hollow ! 
` While the sun rains fire , ' answered Archibald , ` upon the green topped trees behind . ' 
` Archibald is given to such extravagancies of late , ' continued Clara , touching my hand at the same time , that I might observe the vivid beauty of his deep eyes , while they dwelt upon those of Lucia , which were turned , full of devotion , and mysterious , sweet meaning , toward the wood . 
` You look melancholy , dear Archibald , ' said Ellenour , affectionately , putting her little girl into his lap . 
said Mrs. Arnauld -- ` ah , yes -- ' ` I feel so , ' said Archibald . 
Archibald ? ' 
Archibald smiled , and shook his head . 
` An admirable illustration , ' said he , ` of that ambition -- the disease of noble minds , which , in its dotage , degenerates into a love of notoriety . ' 
` It is no less true , than strange , ' said Archibald , looking Lucia in the face ; ` that , wherever we see any opinion , manner , or habit , pushed to extremity , we are apt , by way of shaming or rebuking it , more effectually , to run directly into the contrary extreme . 
There was a terrible , brief movement , in his thoughtful eyes , ere he replied ; and , when he - did - reply , it was with the air of one that feels much , very much , but would not have it known -- one that would convey deep counsel in a light way -- fluid gold in a wooden cup -- mystery and power -- in the language of common conversation -- from what motive ? 
said Archibald . 
` He wrote some verses once , called -- I forget the name . ' 
` I have thought , ' said Archibald , ` that novel writing has been shamefully mistaken . ' 
look Archibald -- look ! ' 
They were followed by a troop of boys , who ran off with them , pursued by him that had shot at the birds . 
` I remember once , ' said Archibald , ` seeing a beautiful picture , which represented a mother and her babe . 
` You know , ' said Archibald , tapping her hand , as it lay upon the grass near him , while she kept pulling back her little girl , like a truant robin , at every moment or two , and then letting her creep away : ` you know that , if we see a man falling , our horrour is inconceivably greater , if his head be downward ; or , if he be likely to fall upon his head . 
` Let a man go with me , ' said Archibald , with a depth and sincerity , that I shall never forget -- ` out into the wilderness , on such a night as this -- sit with me , as we sat together this afternoon , before the hurricane broke down upon us ; and feel the soft air whispering about his heart ; or hear the thunder breaking at his feet ; and see the great trees bending and parting , in the wind and blackness of God 's power -- I care not who he is , or what he is -- where born -- or how educated -- I defy him to stand upright ! 
` Yet , Archibald , ' said I -- ` you stood upright ' -- ` Did I ? ' 
` I did not know it , ' said Lucia -- ` but I remember that Archibald did ; and I clung to him -- for he saw something . ' 
-- ` What - did - you see , Archibald ? ' 
said she , pressing close to him . 
while they rained fire upon us ' -- said Archibald . 
Archibald ! ' 
said Lucia , stepping up to him , and putting her hand upon his forehead -- ` what ails you ! 
` You are mightily disordered , my dear Archibald , ' said Lucia , affectionately pushing aside the wild brown hair , that shadowed his white brow -- ` I have never heard you talk so strangely ; how wild you look ! 
He grew deadly pale , and his head sunk upon her shoulder , as he finished . 
But Archibald was soon more calm ; -- and toward morning , after we had sent out , as far as we could , to inquire into the situation of our neighbours , which was deplorable indeed , where they lived in frame houses ; and to offer them an asylum , such as we had left , in ours -- we all withdrew to our rooms ; but not to sleep . 
` Did you see how Archibald bore it ? ' 
He stood up like a creature of the elements , unawed and undisturbed . 
I was amazed at his calmness . ' 
` Nor Archibald , ' said Clara , in a tone that startled me . 
` He - talks - no longer of it . 
But , the proposition must come frankly , without any appearance of stratagem , or intrigue , from Archibald . 
Archibald would have married her , notwithstanding all that had happened , the extent of which , it is probable -- nay , it is - certain - , that he knows , though I do not -- long ago ; but a certain high , noble principle of honour , arising from a belief that he should soon leave her a widow , prevented him from making the offer . 
He believes that he will die yet -- and , before - many - months . 
` You are right , dear Clara -- I have no doubt that Archibald might live many years : nay , go into battle again , with reputation and strength -- if -- he could be persuaded to forget the thought of death -- to overlook his own reiterated prediction . 
The war , and the men of the revolution ; my own sufferings , and those of my family ; the army -- my country ; all are forgotten , or remembered , as a matter subordinate to the sorrow , of Archibald and Lucia . 
I can only remember Archibald , as he stood before me at his marriage , so spiritualized with beauty and expression . 
Here Archibald entered , and prayed me to go with him on a walk . 
His manner was very serious , and somewhat melancholy ; while his voice was rather more cheerful than usual . 
said I. ` Some miles , ' he replied . 
said I. ` For several reasons , ' he replied , with increasing solemnity ; ` our horses could not go , where I want to go . 
` I am weaker than you , John , ' said Archibald , mournfully ; ` yet , on the night that I did this , I heaved that rock from its place , and leaned it against the tree , just where you see the bark scarred and bruised there -- and -- come , let us try it together . ' 
` You shall see , ' he replied , stooping and placing his hands under it . 
I staggered to the tree ; and Archibald stooped , as if to touch it ; but he could not . 
His arm shook , and he withdrew his hand , and looked about , in every direction , for a moment -- then folded his arms , and the following dialogue passed between us . 
- ' said Archibald . 
your 's - Archibald ! 
- Archibald Oadley a murderer ! ' 
Archibald had murdered the poor fellow ; while we believed that he had joined the army , and fallen in some of our early battles . 
This accounted for Archibald 's sudden change of temper ; his melancholy ; his awful steadiness in battle . 
-- but nothing in all my life , so preternatural and overpowering , as the look of Archibald 's eyes ; while he stood , with his pale hands outstretched toward the green , distant earth , moving them , as if there were shadows visible to - him - , and to him , alone , and obedient to - his - motion -- the shadows , it may be , of man and horse -- foot and horsemen -- that had died , under his eyes , since they last rode together within this very enclosure . 
` There are comfort and consolation in the very tones of your voice , Archibald , ' said I -- ` I -- pray tell me , if I be not trespassing upon your patience . 
` Even - now - -- Archibald , ' said I , significantly . 
said he dropping his hands . 
` I hardly know , ' he replied calmly -- ` they say that she will be well again ; but , they say the same of me ; poor ideots ! 
` Your hand -- marry her , Archibald , marry her -- ah ! 
-- ' A deep silence followed ; the bed shook , and I leaped out of mine , and ran to his . 
He was lifeless -- covered with dampness ; and his hands were clenched like locked iron . 
It was with difficulty , that I was able to release him , from the hold that he had caught ; but , I did , at last , and bore him to the window , which was open . 
He revived ; but , I was afraid to speak again , till -- I felt the wind blowing upon his hot forehead , as he leaned against my cheek . 
He was in my arms , like a sick child ; and , his hands hung , powerless , over the back of my chair . 
I moved them , and put my hand to his temples ; they were burning hot , and the sweat stood on them , like a summer rain . 
said he , faintly -- ` I see brother that this question is not inconsiderately put to me . 
You are terribly still , Archibald , terribly ! 
` God forever bless you , Archibald ! ' 
By day break we were on our way to the ground , where he broke down , to the rescue of Clinton . 
Archibald was very cheerful , or rather equable and serene ; it was not so much cheerfulness , as the serious countenance of a good man , about to prove his religion . 
A walk was proposed ; and we sauntered about , Archibald and Lucia dropping behind , -LRB- for an unpleasant illness had fallen upon him , suddenly , twice within a few days ; and he was not able to walk far , though he never looked fuller of life and power , -RRB- and conversing with a tender solemnity , which , though we heard nothing of the words , came to us in the sound of their voices , with the effect of prayer . 
said Lucia , uplifting her dimmed eyes , to Archibald , who stood leaning over her , as she sat , and holding by the open casement above . 
` For shame , Archibald , ' said Ellen ; ` would you make us all hide our faces ? 
` Hush , hush , saucebox , ' said Archibald ; ` we are only rehearsing . ' 
Ellen tugged at his arm , and finally led him away from Lucia , to where the clock stood . 
Archibald stopped before the clock , and stood , looking at it , in silence . 
` Yes , ' said he -- ` - yes ! 
` You are very pale , Archibald , ' said she . 
` I am , ' he replied , fixing his eyes upon the clock . 
I - pray - you , ' said Archibald , very earnestly ; ` - immediately - -- I pray you -- it might be too late . ' 
Lucia moved nearer to him , and pressed his hands , while she turned her dark eyes wistfully in his face ; but , though there was a mortal paleness on his forehead , yet his blue eyes were pre-eminently expressive , tender and beautiful . 
Where I stood , which was about five or six feet from him , I was astonished at a phenomenon that was visible to me . 
A thin vapour rose , continually , from his hair , like the mist from wet ground at night ; and his forehead glittered with the dew of his heart . 
I was on the point of speaking ; but , at that moment , the clergyman stepped forward -- placed her hand in Archibald 's , with a benevolent smile -- while a look of noble compassion was bent upon Archibald , as he did so , expressive of uncommon respect and love . 
His remarkable expression -- full of wisdom and corrected passion ; the tamed haughtiness of his red lips ; the deep , passionate blue of his eyes , tempered , in their brilliancy , by some hidden and mysterious feeling , as if he were in the expectation of something , that - we - were all unprepared for . 
Such , at least was his appearance . 
It may be that I have fancied this , - since ; - but , my belief is , that , at that time , while I stood before him , the same opinion arose within me . 
The ceremony went on ; and , such was the solemnity and low tenderness of the clergyman 's voice ; the profound devotion apparent in the countenance of Archibald : the beautiful conlusion , and quick tumult of pale and red , upon the face of Lucia -- rushing like sun-set shadows over summer foliage -- as rapid and varied , that most of us were affected , even to tears . 
Archibald turned -- bent forward , and put his lips to the mouth of his bride -- trembled from head to foot -- attempted to rise -- but he could not -- again and again -- but his head fell on her shoulder . 
Lean on me , Archibald . ' 
I am his wife now . 
He shall lean on no living creature , while I am able to support him -- my - husband ! 
- ' he uttered , faintly , pulling her forehead down to his lips , while she stood over him , pressing his damp temples to her heart . 
-- He stood suddenly erect upon his feet ; the light flashed over his face . 
He fell upon the floor : a loud shriek followed . 
- We ran to him -- we raised him up . 
