It is enough , in proof , to instance the fortunes of Cortes , Ojeda , Ponce de Leon , Balboa , Nienesa , Pizarro , Almagro , and the `` great admiral '' himself ; most of them hostile to each other , and all of them victims to the slavish , selfish hates and festering jealousies , the base avarice , and scarcely less base ambition of the followers whom they led to wealth , and victory , and fame . 
`` Nay , not so bad as that , Vasco . 
Methinks , Vasco , you are strangely scrupulous in this reluctance , now that the hour is at hand for which you have so long striven , to make use of the help which has come thus unexpectedly , as to seem rather like the gift of Providence , than the poor offering of man ! '' 
You knew that I sought her , -- that -- '' He was interrupted by the gentle voice of his aged companion : -- `` Nay , Vasco , of a surety I have not forgotten these things . 
You are known , Vasco , by good deeds and not by goods -- by the stanch virtues of courage and courtesy , rather than by castellanos . 
`` Not a whit , Vasco ; the fear is idle , though natural enough to one who loves , and who is ever not less jealous of his own carriage towards the maiden than he is watchful and suspicious of hers in respect to all other persons . 
Your own venture in this goodly barque is large -- '' `` All that I possess , Vasco ; the fruits of a long life of toil and no little peril . 
`` Should it be lost , Codro ; should the waters which , in these treacherous seas , have swallowed up so many lofty ships , and rent asunder so many noble armaments ; should they swallow ours , then thy loss -- '' `` Is all , Vasco -- all ; and yet , how worthless in comparison with thine , for thy life is thy venture with my goods , and I say to thee again , as I have said to thee many times before , that I hold thy life to be among the most precious of all the things which Spain has sent to these Indias . 
The rich spoils of the new ocean to the south , of which thou speakest to me , even when thou sleepest , will not fail , I am blest to think , to repay thee for the toils , which it is no less certain must be thine ; -- and even were it not so , Vasco , -- even should it be that thy conquests yield thee but barren greatness , as , under cold requital of our monarch , is but too much the peril of those who serve him with all their soul and with all their strength , yet will I so rejoice in thy honours , and in the bright fulfilment of the promise which the stars have made me in thy behalf , that I will freely give my treasure to the engulfing seas , and rejoice in the thought , when it is buried , that it was lost in serving thee . '' 
Methinks , Vasco , they smile not on the passion which may keep thee from thy nobler purposes . '' 
`` I am not sure , Vasco , '' he answered , after the interval of a moment -- `` I am not sure that Teresa thinks of thee as thou fondly imaginest -- I am not sure that she loves thee ; -- still less , my son , am I certain that she is worthy of a love like thine . '' 
`` Much , many things , Vasco . 
Let Vasco Nunez go forth upon his mission , which -- I read it in the stars -- is to bring him to wealth and greatest glory , and Teresa Davila will place her slender white hand within his , and there shall be no words from her lips which shall not breathe to him of love . '' 
When , at length , the old man paused , Vasco Nunez waived his hand impatiently , and though a faint smile , the result of visible effort , was upon his lips , there was yet a gloomy frown upon his forehead , and his tones were cold , and marked by a dissatisfaction which he vainly strove to hide . 
Thou hast read it in the stars ; '' cried Vasco Nunez , interrupting him with an air of pleasant triumph , while laying his hand upon the old man 's shoulder . 
There were dangers -- many dangers and strifes in thy path beside , but I tell thee , Vasco Nunez de Balboa , there were none of them all that bore so perilous an aspect to thy fortunes as these . 
`` Wherefore should it trouble thee , Vasco , '' demanded the astrologer , with expostulating earnestness , as he beheld the visible harshness growing upon the features of his companion . 
`` No matter what brings him , my son ; there is no need that such as he should move thee to anger , still less is there any need that he should see that thou hatest him . 
Smooth thy brow , Vasco ; look not on him with scorn , and beyond all things , preserve thy temper . 
The ready grasp and sudden word of Vasco Nunez , alone prevented Leonchico from springing upon the first named visiter with a ferocious vigour , scarcely less than that to which he was commonly aroused by the studious provocations of the trainer , on the eve of Indian combat . 
Felipe Davila followed his example , and seeing them thus disposed , Vasco Nunez made his way towards the entrance , as if to depart . 
`` You would be private with my friend Codro , señores ; I will leave you , '' he said , as he laid his hand upon the door . 
He had been long taught to know that Vasco Nunez held him in contempt . 
Such was the sort of persons from whose errors the griping hands of the pettifoggers had derived those profits which he was now about to launch upon the deceitful seas , in sustaining the pretensions of Ojeda . 
Enough for thee to know that Vasco Nunez de Balboa knows well what is permitted him , is able to determine his own limits by the royal commission , and has the weapon , Señor Martin , ay , and the spirit too , to assert and maintain his rights , whether it be against a royal governor or his alcalde mayor . 
The cavalier , Vasco Nunez , whose blood was already in commotion , found it difficult , however , to subdue himself to the required degree of patience ; but with a visible effort he did so , and while amusing himself with stroking with his hands the shaggy neck of Leonchico , he bade the other proceed . 
Vasco Nunez looked up , but said nothing . 
demanded Vasco Nunez impatiently . 
This expression could not be mistaken by the cavalier , and it was , perhaps , because he beheld something like a similar approval in the face of his friend the astrologer , that the answer of Vasco Nunez was uttered in almost impatient accents , and with a harsh haste in its tone which indicated a latent sentiment of anger . 
But the prompt answer of Vasco Nunez showed them that far other were his thoughts , and that he suffered from no such apprehensions . 
`` And if the seas suck the ` Maranon ' down into their deep jaws , Señor Hernandez , they suck down Vasco Nunez along with her , and thus ends the struggle of one man along with the many hopes that now warm and wake within his bosom . 
this conquest is due to the unfortunate cavalier , Vasco Nunez ; it was his prow that guided us to the great sea of the south ; it was his venturous skill that found these sunny shores , and gathered up these golden and pearly treasures . ' 
A deep sigh escaped the miser , who had no doubt been promised a liberal reward if he could succeed in any manner in changing the direction of his castillanos . 
But , let me warn you , should it be , as some think , that the great southern sea lies within the province -- '' The short , quick , and somewhat hoarse accents of Vasco Nunez interrupted the speaker . 
In this bohio , or in the good ship ` Maranon , ' or on the waters of the southern sea , I tell thee that Vasco Nunez is resolved to maintain his . 
The latter plucked the sleeve of the astrologer , who had gone with him to the door , and drawing him a few paces beyond the entrance , whispered in some anxiety -- `` And thou thinkest , worthy Micer Codro , that the fortune of the brave youth is good , albeit he doth reject the offer of Enciso . 
Will the stars keep faith with him that is so obstinate . 
Doth his good planet rise yet , -- will he swim ? 
The stars have Vasco Nunez in keeping ; and though it was my thought that he should have taken the venture with Ojeda , it is my faith now that his fortune is the better counsellor . 
He , too , had faith in the star of Vasco Nunez , and yet he almost wished that the latter had closed with an offer so seemingly advantageous as that of Enciso . 
exclaimed Vasco Nunez , as he received the treasure , `` how many damnable spots have these bright pieces fastened on his soul . 
responded the astrologer , whose veneration had not suffered any diminution from his study of the stars . 
`` Let us , '' he continued , `` go forth and rid ourselves of the burden , and , if possible , the sin . 
They have both criers in the Great Square , and this is market-day , Vasco . 
Throwing aside the robe of stuffed cotton , which had enveloped him during the interview , he appeared in the ordinary garments of the time , without ornament of any kind , if we except a gorget of plain gold , having a small pendant medallion , in which an image of Saint John was set . 
To the astrologer , devoted to the mysteries of that wild and wondrous study , then so much affected , and so much confided in by all classes , Vasco Nunez supplied the absence of other ties and nearer kindred . 
Though otherwise alone in life , the fond superstition which the former professed , had failed to wean him utterly from those affections which belonged equally to his nature and early associations ; and it was no less grateful to his heart , than it was creditable to his skill , to behold the rapid rise to prosperity and fame , of one still so youthful , who had set out at first with but few , if any , of those wordly advantages which are generally assumed to be so necessary to eventual success . 
As the father lives in his child , Vasco Nunez , the withered hand of Micer Codro lives in thee . 
Such was not the object of devotion in the case of Vasco Nunez . 
The idol of his affections was the daughter of a poor knight of Calatrava , who , though a favourite of King Ferdinand , and for some time an officer of the royal household , had yet reaped little beyond the simple distinction in reward for his loyal services in that economical court . 
But such was neither a thought in the mind , nor a desire in the heart of Vasco Nunez . 
Though a man familiar with the modes of thinking and feeling in the world , and one who had suffered from its most humiliating necessities , he was yet one of those persons who never acquire that narrow wisdom which makes cold considerations of worldly comfort a gauge for the affections . 
He could live , as he had lived , on the bitter roots , the strange vegetables , and the unripe fruits of the wilderness , when in the same wilderness he found the pathway which he desired to honourable conquest and elevated fame . 
To this passion , so happily styled , the `` infirmity of noble minds , '' there was but one rival in his ; and to win Teresa Davila , without a single jewel beyond that , richest of all , which he believed to be enshrined in her own purity and affections , was to complete the triumph , over which , there were moments , when his heart seemed to have no desire , and his mind no inclination . 
Though unfavourable to this latter passion , as believing it to be at variance with what he esteemed the more noble and just direction of his companion 's mind , the astrologer yet forbore , on the present occasion , speaking to a subject which he clearly perceived betrayed the cavalier into a departure from his wonted equanimity and judgment . 
He was not unwilling , with that sagacity which leaves something to time and fortune , to forbear a theme the discussion of which could embitter only , and could not convince . 
`` Let us hasten , '' he said , `` the loss of time now were a greater loss than if we were to lose our castellanos . 
exclaimed the cavalier , in tones which clearly manifested the uncontrolled disgust which he felt for the person named ; `` doth that base creature -- that crow with the feathers of the flamingo -- doth he walk behind us ? '' 
was the sudden exclamation of the cavalier , as he now turned his eyes upon the backward path , a movement which he had felt some shame to make but a single moment before . 
A heavy frown hung like a thunder-cloud above his brows , as he saw the person named emerging slowly from the thick grove of royal palmettoes , whose slender shafts , rising like chiselled columns for more than a hundred feet in air , without branch or stem to spoil their symmetrical smoothness , expanded broadly at the top , and formed a verdant canopy over the bohio of Teresa , which , without impeding the passage of the air , utterly excluded the hot glare of the sun from its green verandas . 
But Vasco Nunez had no eye for these , the most majestic and graceful trees of the whole vegetable world . 
His eye was fixed in bitterness and scorn upon Garabito , while his words , simple and few , sought to convey a different impression to the mind of his companion from that which filled his own . 
`` It will not sink -- it can not be lost , -- and let not , I pray thee , son Vasco , let not this matter give thee more concern . 
`` Let us speak no more of him , '' replied Vasco Nunez with some haste ; `` they tell me that he is a wretch , no less cruel than foolish . 
`` And yet , Vasco , marvellous as it may seem , there is this double nature ever in the men of certain nations . 
exclaimed Vasco Nunez . 
`` It is true , Vasco Nunez , '' responded the astrologer , with half-suppressed but solemn accents , `` the martyrdom of the blessed Saint Sebastian not more true than that of these harmless savages ; and , hearken to me -- more than this , my son , '' -- here his voice was subdued into a whisper , and , approaching more closely to his companion , he looked backward as he spoke -- `` more than this , my son , it is the word that this Jorge Garabito , who now comes behind us , is the very man of Seville , having command at the time over the repartimiento of Alameda , in the iron mountains , where this cruel deed was done . 
Believe me , son Vasco , Alameda looked to nothing but his three-fifths ; and asked for no accountability from his officer , but of the golden pesos which he told before him weekly . 
While the treasury filled , he took no heed of the blood which Garabito , it is said , made to flow like water . '' 
He saluted them civilly but foppishly , with a swagger of importance , which added to the distaste already expressed for him by Vasco Nunez . 
He was a slender and good-looking person enough , had he been content to let himself alone . 
But his dress was that of the ultra fops of the time , and faced and flanked as he was on all hands by ribands and knots , there was enough in his mere outside to provoke disgust in the mind of one like the cavalier , whose own habits , though neat , were simple , and whose manners were too direct and frank to tolerate any form of affectation . 
The mincing gait , and no less mincing accents of Garabito , as sidling by them , he whispered the passing salutation , were of a piece with his costume ; and the cold response of Vasco Nunez , and the reluctant down-looking air of the astrologer , had nothing in them to encourage him to linger . 
If Vasco Nunez felt scorn for Garabito , the latter requited it with a hatred equally unqualified , though less fearlessly expressed . 
If I were in the iron mountains now , I would practise a stroke or two upon the hardest skull in the mine : I would that this Vasco Nunez could behold me strike a blow . 
Methinks he were more civil thereafter . 
There is a day yet -- he shall see -- he shall feel me too , perchance . 
They say he has hope of Teresa -- but he is a fool there -- the true hope is mine . 
This Vasco Nunez affects not even the fashion of the curb and chain ; nor doth he wear the frill ! 
He would work wonders with big speech and wearisome voyages ; -- he goes far , and toils hard to suffer loss . 
He hath little knowledge of a damsel 's heart , I trow , but will grow wiser when he hath lost Teresa . '' 
Vasco Nunez , my son , when thou hast trodden the green shores of that southern sea , beware what thou doest to the innocent people thereof . 
I am in the mood to see her now -- I would that Teresa were with me -- I have spoken of this woman in her ears -- it would chafe this ruffian Vasco Nunez , to behold us . 
Would I had thought of it -- I had vexed him with a sight -- I had -- that I had ! '' 
The laughter of the crowd added to his fury , which was not a little heightened by the consciousness that the whole scene was witnessed by Vasco Nunez , whom he knew to be approaching . 
he exclaimed to the astrologer , as they paused in their course to survey the scene . 
`` God of the martyrs , Vasco Nunez , strike in and stay his hand ; he will slay the child if thou dost not . '' 
`` He will not -- he dare not strike ! '' 
said Vasco Nunez , in hoarse accents , but hurrying forward as he spoke , with a degree of haste which belied his confident speech . 
`` He will not use weapon upon the child -- impossible ! 
He is not base enough for that -- he dare not , before our eyes ! '' 
The words of Vasco Nunez were too late , or only served to provoke and goad the vindictive monster to the commission of the deed . 
`` What wouldst thou , Vasco Nunez -- what wouldst thou , my son , by this violence . '' 
`` Stay thy hand , brave Vasco , dear son , stay thy hand , strike not the blow , remember the decree of Nicholas Obando . 
`` I dare not , Vasco -- for thy own sake , I dare not . '' 
Vasco merely stamped with his feet , and simply pointed to the murdered child . 
But his knowledge of his weapon , his art , and practice , were nothing to the ability of Vasco Nunez , in the same noble art . 
He , in the language of history , had received , par excellence , from his cotemporaries , the appellation of `` Egregius Digladiator , '' or `` master of fence , '' and a very few passes between them soon convinced the crowd , and the feeble Garabito among them , that he was in the custody of his fate . 
The weapon flew from his grasp , and the point of Vasco Nunez was lunged with deadly force and exactness towards his heart . 
He saw no more -- a death-like paleness covered his cheek -- a mist shrouded his sight -- a miserable sickness filled his heart , and he sunk without an effort to the earth . 
He fell without a wound ! 
The arm of his enemy had been arrested ere the blow was given , and the miserable tyrant , whose reckless and blood-thirsty nature had doomed hundreds to the most cruel form of punishment and death , was deficient in the courage to look boldly on his own . 
were the fierce words of Vasco Nunez , looking around him . 
His eye rested upon a small but noble-looking gentleman , who had just reached the spot in time to arrest a weapon that would not otherwise have spared the wretch , whom its very aspect may be said to have overcome . 
An artificial sentiment of chivalry taught Vasco Nunez to spare , where a natural sense of justice might have moved him to destroy . 
There was a tremor in the heart of Vasco Nunez as he hearkened to these words , which the conflict with Garabito had not occasioned . 
She passed on , leaving as she went a softness in the soul of Vasco Nunez which made him turn away from the scene of strife and of bloodshed with a sentiment of horror and disgust His eyes followed her vanishing form until the stranger reminded him that the duties of humanity were yet to be performed . 
Addressing the trembling Indians , who had shrunk into the back-ground , and to this moment had not offered to touch the carcass of the murdered boy or lend the slightest assistance to the mother , Vasco Nunez bade them take up the child ; -- but the words were not well uttered , before they were answered by the miserable mother . 
she resumed , in broken Spanish , sinking again upon her knee before Vasco Nunez and placing one hand upon the headless trunk : `` you will not take the boy from Azuma -- the poor boy , the son of Caonabo -- the poor Hawaie , that only played with the monkey -- that will not play with the monkey any more -- the poor Hawaie ! '' 
exclaimed the cavalier to his companions . 
The opinions of the stranger were evidently correct , and Vasco Nunez , as he felt their truth , in spite of the seeming inhumanity , was about to turn away , when , starting from her trance of grief as she heard his movement , she crawled suddenly forward , and clasping with both her arms the knees of the cavalier , rested her head against them and muttered a few words in her own language , which , from the tone of her utterance , might be deemed a blessing . 
Vasco Nunez gently strove to disengage himself from her grasp , while he spoke in accents subdued to a sympathizing kindness : `` I can do nothing for you , my poor woman -- nothing ! '' 
She lifted her eyes , streaming with tears , and looked her gratitude in his face . 
Then , convulsively sobbing , while releasing him from her grasp , she replied in imperfect Spanish : `` But if you could , master -- but if you could ! '' 
The confidence in his humanity to do for her whatever lay in his power , which the broken sentence seemed to convey , was , perhaps , the highest acknowledgment which the Indian of Hayti could give to any individual of the Spanish race . 
`` Let us go , '' said Vasco Nunez , as he dropped unnoticed a piece of money at her feet ; `` let us go , señor . '' 
`` By the blessed Virgin , though we be his followers , holding his service and taking his pay , Pedro , it did my heart good to see Vasco Nunez cross weapon with him . 
`` Yet , what a hot-brained fool that Vasco Nunez , to draw sword in such a matter ! 
For my own part , Sanchez , I could tell thee -- '' `` Ay , Pedro , of some of thy own valiant deeds of this sort among the heathen , '' replied his companion interrupting him ; `` but if this practice of Vasco Nunez grows to be universal in Santo Domingo , then wilt thou curse the long tongue that could n't keep its own secret . 
`` To Vasco Nunez ! 
When Vasco Nunez bade them take the child away , she refused , if you remember ? '' 
`` I wasabout to have sought you , my dear Vasco , at your bohio , '' was the familiar and somewhat affectionate speech of the cavalier , whose fortunate appearance at the very moment so perilous to Garabito , in all probability saved his life . 
An intimacy , formed in the new world , and strengthened by mutual services , justified Nicuesa in the freedom of his approach to Vasco Nunez , and gave a sanction to those hopes of success in the object which he had in view , which , if disappointed in the end , were yet not so utterly unfounded , and consequently obtrusive , as those of a like kind which had been already urged by the Bachelor Enciso . 
`` Vasco , '' he continued , `` I have some proposals to make you , which , if your friend , Micer Codro , will be sufficiently mine to help me persuade you to accept them , I am just as willing that he should hear as yourself . '' 
These words spoken , Nicuesa gave his hand to the astrologer who accompanied them , and Vasco Nunez declared his readiness to hear the communications of the cavalier . 
`` There is too little money to be had at this time in Santo Domingo , Vasco , to make it difficult to number the fortunate . 
said the other , hesitatingly , and with an expression of good-humoured confusion in his countenance ; `` but of a truth , Vasco , my business being not altogether unlike that of Enciso , it is my fear that I have somewhat too freely spoken of the insolence of his . 
`` I fear this money of Davila 's will do me little good , '' said Vasco Nunez , gravely . 
Himself somewhat unscrupulous in money matters -- and this was one of the failings of his character -- he had not that nice sense of honour , the reservation of which operated at this moment on the mind of Vasco Nunez . 
To his unrestrained expression of astonishment and inquiry , the latter answered with increased gravity . 
I see -- I understand , '' said the other ; `` you would owe nothing to the uncle of Teresa ; it would fetter you , you would say ; but , my dear Vasco , these scruples are very idle . 
Did you ever hear of my spoils on my way out , Vasco ? 
These are ventures good as gold , Vasco , since these feeble Indians of Hispaniola sink so fast beneath their burdens : and the beauty is , that you gather them with the weapon of the warrior and not that of the slave . '' 
that great southern sea , Vasco -- do you ever think to find it . '' 
`` You will waste your best days , my dear Vasco , in the search , and , I fear me , after all find nothing . 
said Vasco Nunez , quietly . 
You know , Vasco , that my armament is almost ready , and I lack but little to its completion , and something , not so little , to pay off creditors that might not else be so willing to see me sail . 
`` Give me these castellanos , Vasco , and take part in my adventure . '' 
Vasco Nunez shook his head . 
The other continued : `` Hear me , Vasco , before you answer . 
Vasco Nunez laid his hand on the arm of the knight . 
`` But I am neither Enciso nor Ojeda , Vasco . '' 
`` You will make less money , Vasco . 
It will swamp your fortune , Vasco , but scarcely swim your bark . '' 
`` Enough , Vasco , '' replied the cavalier , whose disappointment did not seem for an instant to disturb his equanimity . 
`` I thank you , and hold myself not the less ready to serve you , Vasco , as a noble cavalier and honourable friend , because of your refusal to stead me in this matter . 
Surely , among the many brave gentlemen in this crowd , I shall find one , having a warm heart under his doublet , and a full purse of castellanos at his girdle . 
said both of his companions , as they followed him into the public market-place , `` may you find a thousand . '' 
If thou canst smile too , as thou dost on Vasco , it will be a matter of a thousand pesos to me , and , perchance , if I am successful , a something to thyself . 
`` That we may both say , Diego , without looking at thy star , '' was the response of Vasco Nunez as the lively cavalier entered the area before them . 
-- thou hast looked upon his fortunes , Codro , '' said Vasco Nunez , stepping back and listening to the astrologer with an air of anxiety which showed how much importance was annexed , in that day , even by the most intelligent persons , to the opinions of that visionary tribe of whom it is difficult to determine whether they most commonly impose upon themselves or others . 
`` Such ear as wise men yield to most marvels , señor ; '' was the reply of Vasco Nunez to the citizen , who , grasping his arm with looks that savored of alarm quite as much as astonishment , challenged his opinion of a portion of the testimony which Antonio Guerro had quoted in support of the map which he displayed . 
But the ears of Vasco Nunez ceased to hear , and his eyes to behold the rival notaries , upon the arrival of a group of damsels among whom the keen glance of the lover soon discerned the lovely person of Teresa Davila . 
It was the hope and faith of Vasco Nunez that his more favouring judgment would be sustained by his own fortunate experience . 
Time will show which of these was right `` She would wed thee now , Vasco , '' whispered the astrologer to his companion , as he caught the glance of the maiden 's eye turned towards him ; `` if , on the instant , thou couldst claim her hand , this instant would she bestow it . '' 
He stood beside her where she sat , and in the indulgence of those dreams of the heart which for a season will even blind the ambitious soul to its high purposes of fame , Vasco Nunez grew not only forgetful of his own purpose in the assembly , but almost unconscious of what was going on around him . 
Themovement of Vasco Nunez which led him to the side of Teresa Davila , was followed by a corresponding movement of the astrologer . 
demanded Vasco Nunez , hastily . 
To the great relief of Vasco Nunez , the astrologer departed on his various purposes , and he was suffered once more to give his whole attention to the proud maiden by whose side he stood . 
`` Thou wilt not fight with him on such a quarrel , '' was the expostulation of Vasco Nunez to Nicuesa . 
`` Thou wilt have to play , Diego , '' said Vasco Nunez , handing him the instrument , which had been passed from hand to hand over fifty heads . 
The words of Vasco Nunez , heard by all around , gave volume to the desultory and vague apprehensions of the multitude , who knew not what to fear till then . 
Even in that moment of terror and of danger , the strife of the elements momentarily increasing , and the thickening darkness only relieved by intensest flashes of lightning , the heart of Vasco Nunez grew softened with the sweetest sensations of pleasure , as his ears drank in for the first time a word of corresponding endearment from the lips of the beloved one . 
She moaned only in terror , but clung close to him the while . 
He was one of the few who still retained their composure amid the confusion ; and with a resolved mind , which the pressure of necessity only aroused into confidence and strength , he paused briefly , while , looking round the crowded area , he strove to detect with his eye some one single point of egress , upon which he might , with the best hope of success , concentrate all his efforts . 
His glance was momentary only , and , as if satisfied , he confirmed by a renewed grasp his hold upon his lovely burden , and went forward with a step equally firm and fast . 
But , it was here in chief that the superior mind of Vasco Nunez displayed itself . 
he cried to a group that annoyed him on one hand , and whom he was anxious to send forward . 
One of those purposeless and powerless animals , having the shape of manhood only -- a huge creature , whose limbs seemed sufficiently massive to have breasted the full force of the hurricane itself , stood with wide mouth and stupid incapacity immediately in his way . 
It was not a moment for indecision , -- nor was Vasco Nunez the man -- not then , certainly , when the life of one so precious to his heart , was in danger , and while she lay almost fainting upon his arm . 
With outstretched hand -- the only one that was free for his purpose -- he grasped the imbecile by his throat , and , with all his strength suddenly put forth , he hurled him forward upon the struggling mass in front . 
The blundering giant , unable to arrest the impetus so suddenly given to his limbs , fell precipitously among the crowd , bearing down with him to the ground , in his outstretched arms , all those whom he could grasp in his vain efforts to stop his fall . 
These in turn , agitated the farther groups , which , separating in confused forms , left little openings in front which gave him glimpses of the sky . 
How cheering were these glimpses to his sight ! 
They stimulated his exertions . 
Availing himself of the opening , he strode over the body of the man whom he had thrown down , and who vainly strove to rise under the pressure of all those who followed the lead of the cavalier ; and striking another from his way , he pressed forward , and with a bound , into which all the energies of his elastic and vigorous form were compressed , he gained the entrance which he had sought , at the very moment when a terrific thunderbolt burst at his feet . 
In the broad red sheet of light which wrapped every thing around him , he saw nothing but the annihilation of the lovely being whose entire weight , pressing on his bosom , seemed that of one already a victim to the dangers which he had striven so hard to fly . 
She had fainted , but he had a worse fear than this . 
He believed her to be stricken by the bolt , and in the first moments when that apprehension seized upon his mind , he laid her insensible body upon the earth and sunk down beside her , having no farther purpose or thought of flight . 
But the reflection of another instant reproached him for this unmanliness , and the hope that she might have only fainted from terror or exhaustion , stimulated him to new exertions . 
He raised her again from the earth , and amidst the cries of the confused multitude flying in all directions over the plain , some calling for missing relatives and companions , others imploring succour , and more in sheer terror , asking protection from the saints , he heard , with pleasurable surprise , a voice at his right hand -- the voice of the venerable astrologer , who alone , of all the gay company that filled that day the Plaza de Armas , seemed to have kept a cool , untrembling mind . 
`` Straight forward , son Vasco , straight forward . 
`` We are safe in this shelter , Vasco -- set the maiden down -- here are the rocks . '' 
Vasco scarcely seemed to hear the reply . 
There was a wild ringing in his head , a sickness at his heart , and it required him several seconds of repose beneath the rocks , his lips pressed closely to the earth , ere he found himself free of the suffocating vapour which had so nearly stifled him . 
When his eyes recovered sufficient strength to resist the glare which had so blinded them at first , he beheld the white head of the astrologer bare to the storm , upon which he gazed with the dreamer 's enthusiasm and the prophetic spirit , having seemingly no fear , though he stood conspicuous on one of the highest crags of the long chain of rocks that stretched into the city from the northwestern mountains . 
A dozen Indians or more , whom before he had not seen , lay crouching among the rocks around him in silent terror . 
Pointing to the form of Teresa , who still lay without sign of life , he bade one of them bring water for her restoration . 
But the Indian heard him with a stupid stare of indifference , and , without leaving his place or changing the direction of his eye , which was turned from the inquirer , and fixed upon the distant mountains in the northwest , he lifted his finger , and pointed simply in the same direction . 
The eyes of Vasco Nunez followed the guidance of the finger to the spot from whence the continued and increasing roar assured him that the desolation was to come ; and brave and fearless as all men acknowledged him to be , a silent awe seized upon his soul as he surveyed the blackening outlines of that vague and bodiless form , whose rapidity outshot the speed of the lightning , and whose power seemed potent for the convulsion and destruction of all bodies ; -- under whose pressure the mountains were split asunder , whose march made the earth heave and quiver as with a fear like that which fell in the same time on its frail inhabitants , and whose flight , driving against the seas , divided their mighty waves asunder and threw them up into mountains , or sunk them deep down into their own abysses . 
Such was the general outline of the hurricane when first beheld by the eye of Vasco Nunez . 
The eye of Vasco Nunez was fascinated and fixed by the awful shadow which was approaching him ; and though his lips were parched as he gazed , and the hot sand from the mountains which was whirled along by the tempest , fell like rain upon his cheek , mingled with big drops of water , scarcely less hot , that oozed out at partial moments from the cloud ; -- and though his breathing was checked , and his blood thickening in his veins , and his heart faint , he rose to his feet , moved with a wild desire to procure succour for Teresa who still lay in a state of insensibility , which had been so long protracted as to make him apprehensive for her life . 
But a friendly hand grasped his arm and would have drawn him back to his place of shelter . 
He turned and saw the astrologer , who had descended unobserved from the eminence where he had watched the coming of the hurricane . 
`` Move not now , Vasco , my son : sink down again , I pray you , for the danger is at hand . 
Down , down , Vasco , lie close as these Indians , or it will suffocate thee . 
`` We are in its very path , Micer Codro , '' cried Vasco Nunez , with accents of alarm , that sprang rather from a belief of Teresa 's danger than from any apprehensions of his own . 
`` Close , lie close , dear Vasco ; if there be danger here , there is death elsewhere . 
While the maiden turned to the spot denoted by her lover , and by an involuntary shudder attested her recollection of the difficulty with which her escape was effected from it , the astrologer called the attention of Vasco Nunez to an event , the misfortune of which , Teresa being saved , and by his arm , he did not so much feel at that otherwise happy moment . 
`` Ay , Vasco , we are safe -- the danger has gone by , and our lives are spared to us ; but next to the loss of life , my son , we have lost every thing . 
The cavalier looked instinctively as he was bidden to the spot where his ship had lain at the morning ; he passed his hands above his eyes as if to relieve his sight , and then replied : `` Indeed , I see her not . 
`` Ay , Vasco , but thou livest , my son ! '' 
exclaimed the venerable man turning fondly to the cavalier and throwing his arms affectionately about his neck -- `` While thou art safe I have but little loss , and while thou livest I despair not of thy star ! '' 
The other was unmoved by his enthusiasm , but deeply touched by the affectionate devotedness which the old man displayed towards him in the hour of his evil fortune . 
demanded the sage , Micer Codro of himself ; but Vasco Nunez , with the blindness of one who sees only through the desires of his heart , saw nothing of this coldness and would not acknowledge its existence . 
`` It is the bashfulness of the young heart , '' said he , to the astrologer . 
Oh , Vasco , I would that thou couldst wean thyself from the love of woman , in which I see all thy danger , and give thyself to glory and great achievement only . 
`` She will never tell thee that , Vasco Nunez ; and thou canst no more defeat the promise of thy star than I can make it . 
The disaster which had struck so deeply at the resources of Vasco Nunez , had not , as we have seen , impressed him with so much sorrow at his loss while Teresa Davila stood beside him . 
It is probable , indeed , that he would have smiled with scorn upon his misfortunes , and held them in slight regard , had it been , as he whispered in her ear , that there was a sweet hope of his success with her . 
But she spoke no more those tender words which had fallen from her unconscious lips while his arm protected her from the destroying blast . 
With the assurance which she felt of safety when the hurricane had gone by , returned all that capricious coldness of manner , which the fond cavalier ascribed only to maidenly reserve and a proper dignity . 
He well understood the selfish nature of the woman whom Vasco Nunez loved . 
He saw it in the sudden change in her deportment when the services of the cavalier were needed no longer ; he saw it in the cold , indifferent tones with which she demanded to know if his fortunes were , indeed , entirely dissipated by the storm ; he had seen it long before , in the nice selfishness of character which enabled her to maintain in doubt , and consequently in hope , a dozen lovers , each of whom was made , at times , quite as happy and confident as the most favoured of her train . 
He also knew , and this conviction was of more force than any other in his mind , that she had no feeling of veneration for that noble and high-reaching ambition which filled the soul of Vasco Nunez . 
The greatness of Vasco Nunez was of a sort which was quite too towering for the really vulgar spirits who were the habitual adventurers of the time , and whose pursuits were chiefly those of avarice and murder . 
His finer ambition having for its object great discoveries of unknown realms , like those which Colon had given to Castile , he was regarded by a great number as a mere dreamer who was wasting a precious life , with his small resources , upon the most empty illusions . 
The hopes of Vasco Nunez , in one great leading respect , were broken up and scattered abroad with the dismembered fragments of his vessel . 
The morning found him , as it were , triumphant over fortune -- exulting in the assurances of fate , exulting in the possession of means , by which inevitably to secure success . 
A single hour had sufficed to dissipate his hopes , and a single blast had defeated all the promises of fortune . 
The evening found him destitute of all those resources which it had been the toil of years -- his own toil and that of others -- to accumulate and preserve . 
He had lost not merely the means of adventure and of greatness , but the means of life . 
The last gold in his possession had been given in the casket of castellanos to the hands of the astrologer , who regarding the wants of Vasco Nunez as all satisfied in Santo Domingo with the completion of his means for departure , had appropriated all its contents in making his preparations as perfect and extensive as he could . 
But I tell you , Micer Codro , the alcalde shall give me judgment against you , and hark you , Vasco Nunez -- this fraud of thine -- '' The cavalier interrupted the insolent speech of the miser in a voice and manner no less dignified than stern . 
The indignation of a noble mind , nobly shown , is seldom utterly without its effect upon the vulgar , and the soul of Felipe Davila actually quailed within him , as the cold , but resolute eye of Vasco Nunez looked upon him . 
said he , `` I have borne with you , for the sake of one , to speak of whom in the same breath with you , I feel compunction and dislike . 
But know that even the feeling which I have for Teresa Davila , shall not protect the base wretch who dares couple fraud with the name of Vasco Nunez . 
was the reply of the miser , but he retreated as he spoke , and placed himself among the bystanders whom his high words had brought nigh to hear the conference . 
The sudden grasp of Vasco Nunez upon the throat of the abusive wretch made him cry out in other language , as he implored mercy in one breath from his assailant , and assistance in another from the crowd . 
Micer Codro interposed , but the better nature of Vasco Nunez himself spared him the necessity of farther interposition . 
he cried , flinging the old man from him as he spoke , and turning away from the group at the same moment . 
I tell thee , man , that wert thou to bind the limbs of Vasco Nunez upon the cross , and flay him with rods and pierce him with darts , he would spit upon thee and scorn thee to the last . 
There is a nature in him which thou canst not understand , and which all the powers of alguazil and executioner could never move from his resolved purpose . '' 
Wert thou wise now , thou wouldst make this cavalier thy favourite , thou wouldest bestow thy niece upon him if he seeks her , and devote all thy treasures to the facilitation of his greatness ; for I tell thee now , here , even where we stand , with all the evidence of his late great loss before our eyes , that the fates design this same Vasco Nunez for an achievement before which all the successes of all these gaudy cavaliers will be as nothing . 
Next to Christovallo Colon , I tell thee that the name of Balboa shall rank first among the great men of this new empire of Spain . 
But Vasco Nunez , wretched and morbid , saw nothing but a humiliating mockery in the lovely image . 
He turned his eye from that glance which looked upon him so fondly , and gazed upon the sombre masses of mountain in the north from which the hurricane had descended . 
They too were now touched with the loveliest lights of evening , and so soft was the crimson vapour that encircled their brows , that even he who had but a little before witnessed the whole passage of the hurricane , could scarce believe a region so heavenly-hued to have been its birth-place . 
The heart of Vasco Nunez melted within him to behold her , and his eyes filled with tears . 
Remembering to have seen her , while in the dance , with her hair seemingly unbound and flying in all directions , Vasco Nunez was interested in observing the neat and highly artificial manner in which a single tress of the streaming volume might still be made to secure from sight upon the head , a treasure , which , as she unfolded it before his eyes , was far from inconsiderable . 
The heartfelt and devoted manner in which the poor Indian gave up her treasures , in the grateful impulse of her heart , to console the cavalier who had lost every thing , touched his very soul . 
The big drops , gathered fast beneath his eyelashes . 
Tears had been for long years before strangers to his eyes , but they now gushed forth freely and he did not seek to restrain them . 
were the exulting exclamations of the woman , as she laid the gold at his feet . 
The earnest gratitude of the poor savage saddened while it pleased him . 
A like proffer from one of his own countrymen , in that moment of moody despondency would , possibly , have only angered him . 
His claim was better upon the one than the other , yet how little reason had he to expect such a tribute to his misfortunes from any Spaniard . 
To refuse her any longer would have been an unkindness of which Vasco Nunez was incapable . 
`` I thank thee , I thank thee , good master -- I will bring thee more , '' she exclaimed , interrupting him in the fulness of her joy . 
`` I will bring thee more , dear master , '' she cried , again interrupting him -- `` There is much gold in Cibao , and it is good . 
Look , my lord , -- after so many suns , '' -- here she counted on her fingers before his eyes -- `` so many suns , and Buru will come with her sister , and bring good guania in her hair . 
said Vasco Nunez . 
These words were rather the fruit of Vasco 's own melancholy musings than as intending any answer to the woman -- and , but for the melancholy defiance in his manner when he spoke of the hostility of the fates , she might have found much in what he said that was greatly beyond her comprehension . 
He well enough understood how grievously Vasco Nunez must feel the sudden annihilation of his hopes ; and if he suffered any time to elapse , after the hurricane , before he came forward as a consoler , it was simply because he also knew how idle in the first gush of one 's sorrow must be any attempt at consolation or encouragement . 
Yet , though in one sense a greater loser than Vasco Nunez , the astrologer was any thing but despondent ; and if afflicted , only so on account of his friend . 
He had an elasticity of mind , the consequence of tempered desires and long experience of life 's vicissitudes , which was yet to be attained by his companion . 
Perhaps , too , he had hopes , which did not encourage Vasco Nunez , and of which the latter did not dream . 
Full of these , and confident in the promises with which they allured him , the astrologer sat down in patience beside his friend , who suffered him to take his place without speech or notice . 
He groaned in the intensity of his thought , until Vasco Nunez , wounded in spirit and sick at soul as he was , forgot , for the time , his own afflictions , as he heard the utterance of a sound so unwonted from the lips of the aged man . 
His hands were clasped upon his breast , his lips were parted , and to the eye of Vasco Nunez , he wore the aspect of one whose soul was afar , seeking fellowship in worlds of better and more enduring promise . 
For a long time did Vasco Nunez watch the sage in admiration and silence . 
`` This old man , '' he said to himself -- `` What lives he for ? 
Though not superior to the superstitions which affected the wisest of his age , Vasco Nunez was stubborn against any beguiling hope in the face of his late disaster . 
He smiled almost scornfully as he heard the words , and remarked the earnest simplicity of expression in the face of the astrologer . 
Thou hadst no days of better fortune , Vasco Nunez , than thou hast now -- now , when thou seemest to have suffered the loss of all . 
Vasco -- fix thy glance upon yon lovely image . 
The eye of Vasco Nunez involuntarily turned with the finger of his enthusiastic companion , until it rested upon the pale bright planet that , occupying the centre of a cloud of stars , irradiated them with a foreign lustre while obscuring their native beams . 
`` Believe me , my son , and doubt nothing of the fortune which awaits thee , '' continued the old man , as he saw how earnestly the glance of Vasco Nunez rested upon the orb -- `` give thyself to the tide , and , as it bears thee , resist not , though it may seem for a time to sweep thee along to the deep abysses of destruction . 
demanded Vasco Nunez , curious to hear more upon a subject upon which his companion had never been explicit . 
was the inquiry of Vasco Nunez , who was curious to learn the cause of his emotion . 
said Vasco , repeating the question -- `` I would not have it so ; though in truth my connexion with thee hath brought thee nothing but evil . '' 
`` Truly , I say not less now , Vasco -- such is the written word . 
`` Saints and angels , Vasco Nunez , but thou growest wilful , '' cried the astrologer with something more of impatience in his speech than he had ever before suffered to appear in his intercourse with his companion . 
`` And canst thou believe thus , Vasco ? '' 
`` Yet , though , in the narrow selfishness of their hearts , they deny thee their money -- let them speak of valiant achievement or gallant deed to be done , and their eyes turn upon Vasco Nunez , and their lips say -- this is the man . '' 
`` Thou art chafed , Vasco , my son ! 
`` I would I might persuade thee otherwise , Vasco . '' 
may it be so , Vasco : thou wilt see -- we shall both see -- I will do her no more wrong by farther conjecture ; and I will pray earnestly that the step thou takest shall be ever a nearer one to thy favouring fortune . 
Theastrologer , who knew the place of labour assigned to the tribe to which the woman Buru belonged , had conceived the determination of following her to the mountains in order to secure for Vasco Nunez the proffered liberality which he had so unscrupulously rejected at her hands . 
He reasoned with more coolness and less of youthful feeling on this subject than the cavalier . 
With this gold in quantity , he well knew that it could avail the Indians nothing , since the only persons to whom the ore was of value , were those who would seize it , on exposure , from their possession , as a proper spoil , without offering any equivalent , and probably bestowing upon them additional blows for the concealment which kept it from their grasp so long . 
To the adventurous Vasco Nunez , however , it was every thing , and the old man judged from the samples which the woman had already given that she had in store sufficient resources to enable him to cross to Cuba , and provide himself with a new equipment . 
He regarded the circumstance as only one of the many modes by which the destinies who had spoken through the star of Vasco Nunez would fulfil all their promises ; and exulting with this quickening fancy , he set off on his journey without the delay of an hour after his separation from his friend . 
Maddened and humbled equally by the defeat and consequent degradation to which the superior skill of Vasco Nunez had subjected him , we have seen him making his way for the hills , where he sought the country house of one Joseph de Ribiero , the chief of an encomienda , who dwelt among the mountains about two leagues from the city . 
The misfortune of Vasco Nunez , while it rejoiced the mean spirit of Garabito , tended in no degree to moderate his hostility . 
The blood of the timid Haytien , or the humbled Indian , might be much more easily drawn than that of the proud and fighting Spaniard ; and the difficulty was increased when the destined victim was one like Vasco Nunez . 
What mode of vengeance was he to employ against a man who had already foiled his weapon with such superior ease , and whose exquisite swordsmanship was so universally acknowledged by the best masters of fence in Santo Domingo ? 
Had you suffered Vasco Nunez to puncture you in the arm or side , you had had your revenge ere this . 
Take this man , and get in waiting for Vasco Nunez . 
You can not meet Vasco Nunez with the sword -- that is idle . 
Nobody in Española looks to see you meet Vasco Nunez on equal terms -- yet they all expect that you should avenge your wrong . 
You must wash out your dishonour in his blood . 
`` It is his blood only that I seek . 
Show me the way to strike him , give me but to know , and I will risk all peril , I care not of what kind , to procure me the vengeance which I seek . 
You must dismiss these idle scruples , Garabito , if you meditate this revenge , for , in truth , it were as vain for you to cross weapon with Balboa as with the Cid Campeador himself . 
That is all my cause of thought -- it is not that I lack resolve , for I have sworn by the holy mother of God that Vasco Nunez shall die . '' 
The people look for it , and even the monkish and the drivelling , though they might blame thee for shedding blood , yet , if thou didst not , would cry aloud , ` that is he who lay under the feet of Vasco Nunez and offered no resistance . '' ' 
-- hadst thou seen the fiery eyes of Vasco Nunez , and the confident glance which he gave her ! 
-- hadst thou , again , beheld the free smile which she returned him , and seen how she hung upon his arm ! 
-- besides , they do say , it was his arm that saved her from the hurricane ! '' 
I came from her when I encountered with the woman , and drew this quarrel upon me by the provocation of the accursed boy -- and I tell thee , Enciso , that Teresa Davila spoke slightingly of Vasco Nunez , and I could not mistake the sneer of her lips when his name was spoken . 
I well recollect her question -- `` Was he not fencing-master at Xeres de los Caballeros , and what should make him thus great in Santo Domingo ? ' 
`` If she said thus , she did Vasco Nunez wrong . 
He is , it is true , a native of Xeres de los Caballeros , but he is of noble family , and brought up as page to Don Pedro , Lord of Moguer . 
There have been no words of love between us ; but there have been shows of regard , and she hath seemed to incline to me while she spoke slightingly of Vasco Nunez . '' 
His soul festered within him at the unmeasured and unmitigated scorn which Vasco Nunez had never forborne to bestow upon himself . 
`` Vasco Nunez de Balboa ? '' 
Vasco Nunez ! 
Enough , that they laid their plans to their own satisfaction , and the result was that another day only was allotted to the life of Vasco Nunez . 
The matador employed by Garabito , to avenge his wrongs upon Vasco Nunez , though he joined the debauch with his employer , in the encomiendaof Ribiero , gave not greatly away to its excesses ; and , before morning , he had summoned before him a trusty villain , whom he used as a spy in all such affairs as that now upon his hands . 
`` Thou knowest the Señor Vasco Nunez de Balboa ? '' 
But this will hardly be , if Vasco Nunez seeks the Señora Teresa . 
He will leave him fast in the bohio . '' 
`` Well , should it be as thou sayst , speed thee then to the slaughter-farm ; -- give him three more pesos , Senor Garabito , that thy work be not half finished ; -- go to the slaughter-farm of Bolaze , on the Jayna , which is nearest to thy need , and get from him a gallon of warm blood , and as much carrion as will gorge the hound ; let him scent of it from the blood , so that he may find the meat at a good distance from his master . 
The very idea of contact with Vasco Nunez -- with one by whom he had been so easily overcome -- was productive of the keenest terror in his mind ; and it was with difficulty that he could preserve the look of confidence which his pride demanded he should wear at such a time , as the matador bade him remain behind for a space , while he went forward to reconnoitre . 
He shrunk behind a gigantic ceiba , whose trunk would have concealed a dozen , while Ortado , stealing from shade to shade , in the direction of the bohio , soon disappeared from his sight . 
He hath fought with D'Aguilar , and once got advantage upon him , which had been fatal , only for the timely coming in of the dog Leonchico , which belongs to the Senor Vasco Nunez . 
The person who followed them was no other than the venerable astrologer , Micer Codro , whom we may remember as having left his friend and companion , Vasco Nunez , on learning his rejection of the offer of the Indian woman . 
It is but a sickly feeling of Vasco Nunez , that which makes him deny to receive the gift of the woman . 
I will go to her as the friend of Vasco , and , doubtless she will yield to me the treasure for his use which she would have bestowed upon him . '' 
Perhaps , they too had been apprised of the hoard of gold which the woman had proffered Vasco Nunez ; and which , in the extremity of her grief , she might unconsciously have disclosed to others . 
This thought afflicted him . 
Gradually his curiosity became enlisted , as he followed the conspirators , and he pressed onward after them with a vigorous perseverance , that might not have been expected from his years . 
At the foot of the gorge he saw them ascend it , and he redoubled his speed , as , rising above the hill at its mouth , they suddenly disappeared from his sight , in the neighbourhood of the Indian settlement . 
At that moment a mountainous mass of cloud , expanding from the smallest speck rolled over the surface of the moon , and from the deep , well-like ravine , through which he was moving , he saw the stars suddenly start out before his sight , and look down upon him with their most perfect radiance . 
`` He hath surely left the dwelling -- there is confusion in his thoughts , and fear ! 
Fear in the heart of Vasco Nunez ? 
Oh , Vasco Nunez -- my son -- wherefore hast thou left the bohio -- thou hast left it for evil -- there is treachery in waiting -- there is danger on thy path -- I look again -- an evil planet crosses the centre of the star -- it shapes itself into a dagger , and lo ! 
There is no change , which shows that the treachery still works , and is in waiting -- now doth humility clothe the face of the star of Vasco Nunez -- is it shame -- is it sorrow ? 
He bows -- he kneels -- wherefore ! 
Can it be that he prays for life from the hand which holds the dagger ? 
There is anger in the heart of Vasco Nunez -- there is anger , and there is pride and strength . 
He bends no longer -- he rises -- now the points lengthen and ray out ; and the bright edges are no longer dim . 
Oh , Vasco Nunez , Vasco Nunez -- son of my soul -- light of my eye -- child that I have followed and watched from the time thou wert a silent page in the castle of Moguer , even to the present hour -- wherefore did I leave thee ? 
Theappearance of Vasco Nunez in the bohio of Teresa Davila did not discompose or disquiet the maiden . 
She received him with a quiet unconscious indifference of manner , which , to one a mere looker-on , and not interested to blindness by his own passionate emotions , as was the case with the cavalier , would have been at once conclusive against his suit . 
But the manner of Teresa was not a thing in his eye or a thought in his mind , while he gazed upon her superb and majestic beauty . 
The glance of her dark , keen , flashing eye , disordered and confused his own ; her glossy and streaming ringlets , half-confined and half-freed among the twisted pearls that were folded in orient wreaths among the luxuriant tresses of her raven hair , seemed to mislead his thoughts into intricate and wandering mazes like their own ; while her tall , and finely rounded figure , flowing with grace and dignity , imposed upon him a feeling of inferiority that almost prompted him to fall before her where he stood , and worship afar without aiming at any nearer approach . 
The heart of Teresa Davila , though without any sympathy with that of Vasco Nunez , was yet fond of admiration , and the expressive hesitancy of the cavalier as he came into her presence , was a tacit tribute to her charms which at once brought all the smiles into her cheek . 
She graciously motioned him to approach , and addressed him in language , which , though customary in that season of unmeasured compliment and strained courtesy , was readily enough construed by the hopeful heart of the cavalier into a more decided expression of encouragement . 
He sank before her upon his knee , and clasped her hand fervently as he bowed . 
The position in which he knelt , distinguished by a natural grace which made even humility a dignified and pleasing object , was eminently grateful to the vain heart of the maiden , and though she strove to disengage her hand , her efforts were feeble , and the faint smile upon her lips amply testified that the annoyance of his addresses to her sense of propriety was not so great as the tribute was pleasing to the vanity of her capricious mind . 
Hear me , Teresa , -- day after day for many months have I followed thy steps , and hung about thy form even as its shadow , until men whispered , ` the bold spirit of Vasco Nunez hath utterly gone from him -- he is a warrior no longer . ' 
His rapid speech , which poured forth the voluminous and long accumulating feelings of his heart in a torrent that would not be stayed , as it could not be stifled , forbade every attempt at interruption on the part of the maiden . 
But she did not seek to interrupt him . 
While he spoke in accents , which , though rapid as thought , yet trembled with his almost convulsive emotion , the bright fires blazed from her eye more keenly , her glance was uplifted , her head slightly thrown back upon her shoulder , and the upper lip , gradually curling into an expression of beautiful scorn , truly indicated the cold selfishness and morbid vanity of a heart that knew not how to feel a single sentiment in common with that nobleness of spirit , which proffered itself so completely to her love . 
She clung to the Indian , and acknowledging her woman dependence all the while , she prayed for the return of Vasco Nunez . 
In that moment of fear , she would freely have given her love to be secure of his protection . 
After remaining some time absent , Ortado returned in some hurry to his employer , having , in the meanwhile , succeeded in obtaining a glance at the greater part of the scene between Vasco Nunez and the woman whom he sought , which we have just described . 
`` And the senora hath refused Vasco Nunez , thou sayest -- but I knew that well enough before . 
`` But thou blindest thyself , senor , even like Vasco Nunez . 
A thousand darting lights gathered before his eyes at the same instant , and he felt that any struggle between the murderer and Vasco Nunez would find him utterly incapable of giving the least help to his emissary . 
His strength failed him with his sight , the point of his sword sunk in the sand at his feet , and he sank forward with a stifled respiration , for support upon the tree behind which he had been concealed . 
When he saw the figure of Vasco Nunez along the path , he passed one arm entirely round the trunk of the tree behind which he stood , thus making it not only an impenetrable shield for the protection of his breast , but a sort of pivot upon which his body might revolve at pleasure . 
His right hand , grasping the dagger , was free to act upon any part of the narrow passage which remained between the banyan and the grove opposite , which a thick undergrowth of shrubs and pruned palmettoes rendered almost impenetrable , and made it almost absolutely necessary that the little pathway should be pursued by the footman under any circumstances . 
The arm of the matador was drawn back as he approached , that the blow might have due force in descending ; and already the person of the victim had half mingled in shadow with the tree which hid from him the danger , when a sudden and terrific shriek -- a shriek of agony and a bloody sweat -- the same cry of horror and of pain which inspired Teresa Davila with such overwhelming dread -- startled the dreary and deep silence of the scene , and , in an instant , drove from the musing and morbid mind of Vasco Nunez , the enfeebling incertitude of thought and despondency of feeling which had made him nerveless as he went , and heedless of his way . 
He recoiled in the first moment of his surprise , and thus avoided the blow , when another forward step would have planted the dagger in his bosom . 
The cry which continued to ring through the woods was no less surprising to the matador , and his eyes were averted from his victim , instinctively , to the spot where Garabito stood , and whence the alarm proceeded . 
That instant was fortunately employed by Vasco Nunez to rush forward , and the murderer failing in his first plan -- which depended upon the use of a single instant -- like the lurking tiger baffled in his spring , slunk back into the thicker woods , and hurried , with a caution that looked very much like cowardice , as well from the man whom he had pledged himself to slay , as from the miserable creature who had employed him . 
The assailant was of gigantic size , and in the imperfect light of the moon , flickering among the trees , he seemed to dilate supernaturally to the eyes of Vasco Nunez , as well as to those of the matador . 
But the words of the coward were silenced by the repeated blows of his antagonist , who , striking him beneath his feet , buried his weapon in three rapid but unnecessary thrusts in his bosom ; then , crying aloud to Vasco Nunez as he came forward , but without waiting his approach , he apprised him of the true murderer . 
Thus , howling to Vasco Nunez , whom he regarded in common with all the Spaniards , as a foe , he fled among the trees , and as the cavalier advanced into the plain of the city , he beheld him darting up the little eminences by which it was environed to the north . 
Standing on one of these eminences , the fierce Charaibee looked down upon the city , and his hand was stretched over it , as if in maledictions . 
But his words came not to the ears of Vasco Nunez , whom a sentiment of respect , if not awe , fixed to the spot , in mute survey of the bold savage , who had baffled so many of the Spanish captains , and had dared at last to descend from his secret mountain passes , to wreak his private vengeance in the blood of his foe , even in the streets of the guarded city . 
His fine , lofty figure , raised in the moonlight -- his daring valour , and the imposing and not ungraceful attitude in which he stood , commanded the admiration of one , who , like Vasco Nunez , was much more of the cavalier than soldier ; and was too deeply imbued with the sentiment of romance , peculiar to the time , not to feel admiration for the hardy virtue of the Indian , whose patriotism had survived his people , and whose courage had never faltered , though death , for many seasons , had dogged his footsteps , and for ever hung upon his path in blood . 
Vasco Nunez returned to the spot where he had seen the struggle , to recognise his own cowardly foe in the victim , and to find that he was dead . 
We left Vasco Nunez after his brief pursuit of the cassique , a wondering spectator of the scene in which the assassination of Garabito had taken place . 
Thou must fly , Vasco Nunez -- the hills must hide thee until thou canst shake the dust of Española from thy feet ; for , of a surety , will the officers of Obando be upon thee , and that selfish tyrant will gladly find fault in thee to wreak his bitter hate upon thy head . 
'T is the guilty alone that fly , '' said Vasco Nunez . 
The arguments of the astrologer were those of plain sense ; and though for a long time resisted by the cavalier , who felt some shame at a flight which argued guilt and savoured of timidity , he yet yielded at last to the solicitations of his companion , and prepared to fly while the night lasted , to the secret places in the neighbouring mountains , with which a war with the cassiques had already made him familiar . 
`` I will but take Leonchico with me , '' said Vasco Nunez , as he moved from the spot , followed by his companion , in the direction of his own dwelling . 
Meanwhile , the matador Ortado sped in silence and swiftness towards the encomienda of Ribiero , from the bohio of whom he had issued but a few hours before with the most sanguine assurances of success given and entertained by all parties . 
It was neither his wish nor policy to fly , leaving his employer without succour in his danger . 
But a moment 's reflection convinced him that he had no alternative -- that his show of help would lead only to his own exposure and consequent risk , and could be of no sort of avail in behalf of the wounded man . 
The instant conviction of Ortado persuaded him that the assailant from behind was in the employ of Vasco Nunez who was rapidly advancing in front -- that the plans of Garabito and himself for the assassination of the cavalier had been betrayed or otherwise discovered ; and that the blows which had levelled his employer to the earth , were the result of a counter-ambuscade which their destined victim had prepared for themselves . 
The simultaneous coming of Vasco Nunez with that of the unknown assailant in his rear , seemed to denote a co-operation of party which was utterly conclusive of this conviction . 
He stood , under these circumstances , between two enemies -- both utterly unharmed -- both strong powerful men -- one of them the most expert swordsman beyond all odds in all San Domingo , and the other , most probably , a chosen soldier -- he , without any weapon but his dagger , and without any inducement to a desperate fight , excepting the engagement with his employer which implied no struggle ; and which , now that the latter was most probably beyond all power of reproach , seemed to the cool murderer a matter as foolish as gratuitous . 
Having lost , in the single moment in which his eyes had been averted from the approach of Vasco Nunez to the spot where Garabito cried for mercy , the opportunity for striking the cavalier ; and as the latter had hurried , in that brief space , beyond him , and in the direction of the strife going on in front , leaving him unseen , -- the cunning assassin , congratulating himself on a degree of good fortune as unlooked for as undeserved , quietly sunk back into the adjoining thicket , and made his way out from the grounds in a direction as far as possible from that where the danger seemed to await him . 
But he was in truth no less a coward than a fool , and we should not lament him for an instant , but that his death baffles the plan to ensure that of Vasco Nunez . 
It is understood that the pledge is taken from thy dagger and , so far as thou art willed , Vasco Nunez must go free . '' 
`` And who hath slain him but Vasco Nunez of Balboa ? 
`` That he hath had it done , Señor Hernando I can not even doubt , '' replied the assassin , -- `` but if the question be asked of me , did Vasco Nunez strike the blow , I were bound , as a lover of the truth , to answer nay . '' 
It is he who sends the dagger home to the heart -- it is he who hath willed the deed , that the law esteemeth guilty of its performance , and dost thou not believe that this deed came of the will and the order of Vasco Nunez , and was performed under his own countenance and direction ? 
Dost thou not think that if Vasco Nunez had encountered with Jorge Garabito in the spot where his emissary found him , that his own hand had struck the blow which was given to the hand of another ? 
This star of Vasco Nunez shall sooner shine above his gory head upon the block than behold him master of that fabled sea of the south of which this dreamer Micer Codro points daily to the money-lenders of Santo Domingo . 
To the ordinary process of the law in criminal cases , he added new terrors and powers by construing the offence of Vasco Nunez -- even supposing him to have committed the murder -- into something of a treasonable character -- resting this charge on the strained assumption , that , as Garabito held an inferior office directly from the appointment of a king 's officer , he had been slain while actually in the service of the sovereign , and consequently in resistance to the crown . 
The unfortunate cavalier , Vasco Nunez , saw the tops of their distant vessels from a lonely cavern that looked out upon the sea , and bitterly did he upbraid his fortune as he felt those misgivings of their success in his own projects , which even his knowledge of the deficiencies of the two governors could not wholly overcome . 
he murmured to the chafing billows at his feet , `` will bring them to that hidden sea . 
Cease thy complainings , Vasco Nunez , they do thee harm , and take from thy otherwise perfect nobleness . 
But other shall be thy fortune , Vasco Nunez . 
how , perched on yonder rock , he too is watching the departing vessels . 
Methinks , he regards them with an anxiety not unlike that which fills the breast of his master . 
He , too , has his dreams of strife , or at least employment . 
He chafes at the inaction which eats like rust into the soul , and leaves it worthless and without strength or motion . 
Insuch manner , day after day , and week after week , did the impatient spirit of Vasco Nunez repine at his confinement . 
To the generous spirit there is nothing so painful and oppressive , as the lack of stirring and manly employment ; and to one , having such hopes as the cavalier in question , and plans of such vast extent , and purposes of such daring achievement , his present state of inglorious restraint fretted his soul into fever , and made him querulous and unjust to himself , and to the friends who were still striving , though secretly , in his behalf . 
No one laboured for him more assiduously than the venerable astrologer , to whose watchful care he was indebted for provisions no less than wholesome counsel , and warming promises of better times . 
News had reached San Domingo of the armament of Ojeda and of Nicuesa ; and the desponding spirit of Vasco Nunez , which no word of his companion hitherto seemed able to awaken or enkindle , now leapt with the keenest emotions as he hearkened to the narration of his rivals ' fortunes . 
His impatience to hear the tidings scarcely suffered the old man to proceed . 
demanded the impatient Vasco Nunez , his blood rising into heat at the narration . 
was the abrupt quession of the cavalier when the excitement in his mind , occasioned by the narrative of the astrologer , had so far subsided as to leave him in a fit mood for reflection . 
And he turned once more to the sullen and dark ocean that lay shadowed before him under the frown of the overhanging mountain , with the sullen mood rising anew in his bosom which it had before possessed , and a spirit doubly desponding because of these tidings of the partial successes , or at least , the freedom for enterprise of others , for which his own heart so earnestly repined . 
cried Vasco Nunez , leaping to his feet with a new vigour in his limbs , a new light in his eyes , a fresh spirit in his soul -- `` do not mock me , Micer Codro , with false hopes ; I tell thee , if thou dost -- '' `` I do not mock thee , Vasco Nunez -- this can be done . '' 
Such were the arguments by which the astrologer strove to reconcile Vasco Nunez to the necessity which was before him , of escaping from his peril and restraint , by employing , in secrecy and stealth , the means of another and an enemy . 
The necessity itself was a stronger argument than any offered by the old man 's philosophy , and sorely troubled to the last at the humiliation which he naturally felt in resorting to such an expedient , Vasco Nunez , availing himself of the cover of the night , descended to the city of San Domingo , and was received by friends who awaited him , on board the vessel of Enciso . 
Whenhe had been some days at sea , the fugitive Vasco Nunez , impatient to behold once more the waters over which he sped , and feel the sense of that freedom which he had been so long denied , emerged from his place of concealment in the hold of the vessel . 
I am still the same Vasco Nunez now that you found me when you made me your pitiful offers of which you speak , and which I should again scorn as I then did , considering not so much the value of your proposal , as the worthless source from which it came . 
`` I will not slay thee , Vasco Nunez -- I will shed no blood of thine , though thy insolence might well justify me in such use of my power upon thee , and thy cruel murder of Jorge Garabito might well deserve it . 
With the utterance of this command , springing forward like a vulture upon his prey , Vasco Nunez , at a single bound , threw himself upon his enemy and before he could lift weapon , or issue a second order , drew him apart from his men , he , struggling with a feeble fury all the while , but unable to escape from the vigorous and unyielding grasp which his threatened victim had set upon him . 
They remembered the great valour and experience of Vasco Nunez , and looked upon his appearance on board , however equivocally obtained , as an event too fortunate to be disregarded , and as a happy augury of success for their enterprise . 
Besides , who so well acquainted as Vasco Nunez with all the shores of Terra Firma , which he traversed with Rodrigo de Bastides , from Cape de la Vela even to Nombre de Dios . 
Enciso gave a sullen consent to an arrangement by which Vasco Nunez became a sort of recruit in his service -- though it galled the proud spirit of the latter to concede as much -- with the full permission , however , should it please him better , to pursue that course , to leave the armament of Enciso for that of Nicuesa , or any other cavalier whom fortune might send upon his path . 
The friends of Vasco Nunez congratulated themselves on having achieved so much , but he himself looked upon the service as one calculated rather to do him hurt than benefit , and , perhaps , to restrain his own progress , by an engagement to which he could not himself incline , and which he greatly feared might defeat other more hopeful purposes . 
He well knew that his only hope had lain in the momentary command which he had obtained perforce of the person of his enemy ; and did not cease to fear that availing himself of a more convenient season , the base-spirited commander would not fail to employ his emissaries to destroy a person who had exposed him to such shame and peril . 
Nor did Vasco Nunez in this moment of distress , remember the hostile spirit which Enciso had displayed towards him . 
The haughty cavalier was resolute not to take upon himself a half authority which was liable to be marred or baffled at any moment , at the caprice of his commander ; and the clamours of his followers , who saw every instant the unfitness of Enciso for the command , compelled him to close with the terms of Vasco Nunez . 
Still Vasco Nunez did not supersede the Bachelor , but it was enough that the soldiers well knew that the orders came from him though uttered by the lips of the latter . 
Already they began to say to themselves -- `` this Vasco Nunez is the proper man for such enterprise -- Martin Hernandez de Enciso will help us little forward . '' 
As yet these opinions were unexpressed to each other ; but where men are equal , the mind of one will soon be in the possession of his neighbour , and it will be found always that every man 's conviction is the common law . 
Guided and counselled by Vasco Nunez , the Bachelor set sail for the proposed settlement on the river of Darien . 
When he reached the spot , Vasco Nunez , from a previous knowledge of its situation , took on himself the preparations , and having divided his force under proper commands , and put them in martial array , he landed at some distance from the town and advanced along the banks toward it . 
Vasco Nunez had already made all the arrangements which he deemed necessary for the combat ; but on a sudden his orders for attack were arrested by the Bachelor , who had legal and pious scruples which were yet to be overcome . 
Apprehensive that the terrors which his men entertained of poisoned arrows might impair their courage , he required them to swear upon the holy volume , that , however the savages might fight , and with whatever weapons , they should not turn their backs upon the foe . 
Then , having made certain liberal vows of spoils yet to be won , to `` our lady of Antigua '' in the event of his success , he professed himself ready for the conflict , which he had delayed to the annoyance of Vasco Nunez and other warriors , whose practice made them far less scrupulous than the circumspect attorney . 
Vasco Nunez , when Enciso gave the signal , led the right division which had been given him to command , directly up the hill , and in the very teeth of the Indian warriors . 
He was quickly followed and well sustained by the Bachelor in the centre , and Valdivia on the left , and so warm was their valour , that Zemaco , though a brave savage , was soon made to fly , leaving many of his warriors slain behind him . 
His neck grew stiff with his triumph , the merit of which he took entirely to himself -- and he who , but a day before , had taken counsel from Vasco Nunez as from a superior , now scarcely bestowed upon the latter the countenance due even to a slave . 
Many of them turned their eyes , even at this early period , upon Vasco Nunez , whose courage , skill , and excellent knowledge of the country , seemed at once to designate him as the person best fitted for the command ; but he kept aloof from them in their discontent , and seemed only to brood secretly and sorrowfully upon that lack of resources which alone appeared to be wanting , by which he might pass to those conquests for which he had striven so vainly and so long . 
He represented to them the legitimate right of Diego de Nicuesa , under the king 's especial grant , to all that part of the gulf in which he found them , and turned confidently to Vasco Nunez as unquestionable authority on such a subject , to sustain him in what he advanced . 
To him also the Bachelor turned in this moment of his precarious command , and confidently hoped to be sustained by our cavalier , as it was by his counsel that he had made his way to the river of Darien . 
But his appeal to this authority , though made with a degree of humility strangely at variance with the scornful deportment he had so lately carried towards the same individual , failed of the effect which he had hoped it might produce . 
`` Colmenares is right ; '' he replied . 
Colmenares loudly exulted at this decision , but the Bachelor bitterly reproached Vasco Nunez with what he styled the treachery of his conduct ; the cold sarcastic remark with which the cavalier concluded his opinion was to the opinionated Bachelor , like the sting under the wing of the hornet . 
`` And wherefore , '' he exclaimed , `` did you counsel me to come within the province of another -- wherefore but as a man false hearted and having a purpose of evil within his mind ? '' 
I thought nothing of your authority when I looked on their desperation ; had it been the question how shall the fortune of the Bachelor Enciso be made , -- or where shall we go that he may enjoy the dignity of alcalde mayor , Vasco Nunez had given you no answer to the prayer which you made him for relief . 
He had left you to your own precious wisdom , and the bitter fruits thereof . '' 
exclaimed the cavalier , striking his weapon by his side till the well tempered steel rattled like silver in its sheath . 
Vasco Nunez turned away from the crowd as these words were spoken , and the Bachelor was not unwilling that the controversy should cease between them ; but enough had been already said to render his authority doubtful , and his followers , whom his stern legal edicts had offended , were glad of the argument to shake off a rule which promised to limit their own fortunes , and deprive them of all the advantages which had been held out to them as lures for the adventure they had engaged in . 
The indiscreet vanity of the Bachelor precipitated his overthrow -- an illjudged attempt to browbeat and compel his opponents , resulted in a popular commotion , in which , with a true recognition of the democratic doctrines of a more modern period , they withdrew their allegiance from him ; and the man of law found himself , at the moment of his highest expectations , suddenly reduced to the condition and the fortunes of a follower , in the very armament he set forth from Santo Domingo to command . 
Colmenares insisted upon their recognition of Nicuesa , as they were within his jurisdiction ; but , though this argument had been the pretence for withholding allegiance from the Bachelor , and for denying his authority , there was yet a strong party , to whom the lofty character , generous sentiment , and great skill and valour of Vasco Nunez , appeared conclusive reasons in favour of appointing him to the chief command . 
His own friends were active in promoting this end ; and the fond predictions of the astrologer , who dwelt learnedly upon the certain prosperity which dwelt beneath his star -- now certainly rising , more and more bright , from beneath the clouds which had so long obscured it -- added force to those suggestions which accorded with the common prepossession in his favour . 
They succeeded in their purpose , in spite of the efforts of Colmenares , and appointed Vasco Nunez , in conjunction with one Zamudio , their chief magistrate . 
It was at this stage of the affair that Vasco Nunez , who had been blamed by some who have not done full justice to his position , for remaining so long quiescent , threw off the lethargy which seemed to hang about his actions , and interposed to protect the fugitive . 
It pained him to the soul to behold a highbred cavalier subjected to the rude treatment of such a base rabble , and suddenly throwing himself upon the path of the pursuit , he seized the most active and noisy of the crew , the fellow Benitez -- already remarked for the insolence of his reply to Nicuesa the evening before -- and availing himself of a stout stick which was at hand , he inflicted upon him without a word , a smart and deserved chastisement . 
Through the medium of Vasco Nunez , -- for they would not suffer him to approach them in person , and , indeed , in spite of the countenance of that cavalier , it might not have been safe for him to have done so , -- he strove to impress upon them the numerous claims which he had to be their leader . 
He reminded them that he had come at their own supplication , that he was by royal appointment the governor over the country of which they occupied a portion , and that they were , in fact , in direct treason in thus opposing his authority . 
But he pleaded in vain . 
They were too strongly impressed with the imprudent threats which he had uttered to the envoys , and were too generally obnoxious to punishment by the vigorous enactments which he had sworn to make , to suffer them to give ear to any arguments , however sweetly expressed , and however strong in themselves . 
`` Let me be a prisoner among them -- let them put me in irons , Vasco Nunez -- plead to them even for this fate -- which would be far preferable in my eyes to the necessity which would drive me back to the shores which I have left , the famine and the poisoned arrows which await me there . '' 
In this wise did the unfortunate Hidalgo plead for the meanest boon which it was in their power to grant ; and no art or argument of Vasco Nunez was withheld to persuade them to the required concession . 
They received his arguments with scorn , and answered his prayers by contemptuous clamours ; and the struggle closed with the final expulsion of the wretched cavalier in a miserable vessel , the worst in their harbour , which they allotted , and in which , with a heart bowed down , if not broken by his repeated misfortunes , he proceeded to sea , attended by only seventeen followers , chiefly his personal attendants and fast friends . 
This done , they proceeded almost in the same moment to declare Vasco Nunez their leader , and to confer upon him that power of which they had just before made so unscrupulous and violent a use . 
These were the words of Micer Codro , as he bore to the cavalier the first intelligence of the proceedings of the people . 
Vasco Nunez , from the moment when he found that all his entreaties had failed to produce any change in their resolves with regard to Nicuesa , had studiously , and with a sad heart and vexed spirit , withdrawn himself from among them , and was now wandering along the shores of the sea , contemplating the backward route taken by the unhappyadventurer , and conjuring up , with a mournful prescience , those aspects of evil to himself , which seemed so naturally to follow the fortunes of the adventurous and brave . 
Thy own safety and mine , Vasco Nunez , not less than theirs , commands thee to take this rule upon thee . 
They proceeded with all haste towards the spot where Vasco Nunez had seen the boat disappear , which they found to be an indentation of the shore , having the appearance on three sides of a capacious basin , but without receiving the tribute waters of any river . 
The appearance of these Indians on that part of the coast , so far from that where Zemaco maintained his forces , in a canoe of such unusual magnitude , and which had evidently just come from the sea , was necessarily a subject fruitful of conjecture in a mind so earnest and inquiring as Vasco Nunez ; though , little did the cavalier imagine among his many speculations , the vast voyage which that frail vessel had made , and the character of her inmates . 
He sank from sight , and the circumstance of his appearance was soon banished from the thoughts , as well of Vasco Nunez as of his companion , when the latter renewed to him the subject upon which they had already spoken so long . 
The astrologer was still apprehensive that the cavalier , who was sometimes more prone to follow the dictates of a lofty and romantic generosity than those of deliberate prudence and a judicious policy , now proceeded to array before his mind such other arguments as he esteemed likely to effect his purpose ; but Vasco Nunez briefly cut short his pleading by declaring his resolution to accept the appointment of the people . 
That ocean at my feet -- that empire surveyed and won , and the life of Vasco Nunez can never be lost , though his blood flows upon the scaffold as a traitor to his sovereign ! '' 
`` Beholdnow , '' says a venerable historian of that period , `` the surprising changes of that fortune which befel Vasco Nunez . 
Behold him now , so late an outcast from all favour , and an outlaw under fear of punishment , lifted on a sudden into the high places of authority , and transformed , from a rash soldier of fortune , into the captain of as brave a troop as ever followed leader in the paths of Spanish conquest . 
With the first possession of his new authority , Vasco Nunez proceeded to make such regulations and enactments as seemed most necessary for the promotion of order in the colony . 
He subjected his followers at once to active employments , under different heads , that they might the more quickly forget the temporary authority which they had themselves exercised with so hasty a hand . 
His next step was to despatch a vessel to the shores of Nombre de Dios , to bring away the miserable remnant of Nicuesa 's colony in that place ; which , he rightly judged , wanting their commander and destitute of provisions , such only excepted as they could wrest in bloody conflict from the natives , must be in a still more deplorable condition than when Nicuesa left them . 
Vasco Nunez smiled scornfully as he hearkened to the insidious prayer of his enemy , but he showed no other token of his suspicion . 
Well knowing the insincerity of the Bachelor , the friends of Vasco Nunez counselled him to refuse his application . 
Governed by this policy , the most liberal and noble , if not the most shrewd and cautious , the cavalier assented to the prayer of the Bachelor , who , in his heart , all the while meditated a bitter revenge upon Vasco Nunez , for all the injustice of his companions . 
To him he ascribed the falling off from him of the regards of his followers , and he resolved that his single head should feel the whole weight of that bitter revenge which lurked within his bosom , the natural progeny of all his defeats , shame , and disappointment . 
But , though Vasco Nunez well conceived the feeling in the mind of the Bachelor , he saw him depart without apprehension , or , indeed , any feeling but scornful indifference . 
He had provided , as he thought , against any evil result which might be feared from the revelations of his enemy . 
He had instructed Zamudio in all the particulars of his own connexion with the colony -- particularly in having conducted it to Darien , and led the attack on the cassique Zemaco . 
These and other facts were written down for the guidance of his representative in answering the charges of the Bachelor ; and a more imposing argument still was put into his hand , in the gold and pearls gathered at Darien , -- a large portion out of which had been set aside as customary for the treasury of the Crown . 
With these precautions , Vasco Nunez saw the departure of Enciso with unconcern , and proceeded with the calm deliberation of a mind entirely at ease , to commence those toils of conquest , from which he promised himself an eternal fame . 
The hope of Vasco Nunez , superior to the miserable love of gold by which the ordinary leaders of the time were wholly governed , imparted to his air , manner , and address , a loftiness and dignity which impressed his followers with something of that feeling of veneration which the Spanish seamen , even at that early day , entertained for Christovallo Colon . 
But events did not allow Vasco Nunez to remain idle , indulging in the vain hope that he should be suffered without obstacle to win the secret path of his high ambition . 
Shortly after his elevation , and ere he had so far subdued the disorders of his colony as to permit of his own departure from it , a detachment which he sent forth under Francisco Pizarro -- afterwards the conqueror of that golden region to which Vasco Nunez pointed out the way -- was defeated by the implacable cassique Zemaco , and Pizarro himself , sorely bruised and wounded , made his escape with difficulty , leaving one of his followers , not slain , but disabled , on the field . 
The anger of Vasco Nunez was awakened by this latter circumstance . 
`` Go back , '' he exclaimed to Pizarro -- `` it were to thy eternal dishonour if thou leavest one of thy followers in the hands of the savage ! '' 
Addressing himself , therefore , to the present necessity , Vasco Nunez at once proceeded to put his people in readiness to march . 
The hills , at the foot of which the colony had entrenched itself , were , he now discovered , filled with enemies , bold , resolute , and distinguished by an obstinate courage which made them a very different sort of foes from those to whom the Spaniards had been accustomed among the Antilles . 
It was while Vasco Nunez was making his preparations to anticipate them in their attack , and at the moment when the warriors of Zemaco , having tasted already of Spanish blood , were growing impatient of the cautious but inactive policy of their chief , that the latter received an accession to his councils if not to his strength , which was calculated , in many particulars , to affect the mode of warfare which he pursued . 
On the evening of that day when the colonists appointed Vasco Nunez to the chief command over them , there came within the circle of the cassique 's encampment , the two strange Indians whom the cavalier had discovered as they disembarked from the sea . 
With the first signs of the morning , Vasco Nunez had prepared for the attack which he had some reason to anticipate . 
When he beheld the hills half encircling his entrenchments covered with his foes , he drew forth his men with the view to use his dogs and horses . 
A portion of his cannon -- a species of falconet , or grasshopper , then much employed in the wars of the new world -- he had also drawn out of his fortress and concealed with select bodies of men , under chosen leaders , each having his especial instructions . 
His entire force , consisting of two hundred and fifty men , were drawn up in three columns , with just space enough between the array of each to permit of the play of the artillery . 
His little squadron of horse , but twelve in number , equally divided , lay with their backs close to the entrenchments of the settlement on the two flanks of his little army . 
Thus prepared , he saw the approach of the enemy without apprehension . 
He was himself mounted on an animal equally remarkable for his strength and fleetness . 
His favourite hound , Leonchico , -- his only body-guard , -- with the composure of a veteran , and a knowledge of his place , which veterans do not always know , kept close beside his stirrup , ready at the bidding of his master , and not before , to take part in the approaching conflict . 
Such had been his experience in the wars with the Indians , and such his docility , in consequence of the admirable training to which he had been subjected , that the leash and cage which alone secured others from evil , were esteemed unnecessary for him . 
Thus prepared , Vasco Nunez received the shock of the assailant at the head of his little army . 
Their crossbows returned the fire of the Indians , the archer firing at groups only ; -- but when the keen eye of Vasco Nunez saw that the great body of savages had descended from the heights and were huddling together in confused bands , each striving to be foremost in its attack upon the small and condensed array which he led , he saw that the hour for serious strife was at hand . 
He commanded his ranks to open . 
As Vasco Nunez had anticipated , directing their fury upon a point so narrow as that presented by his front , their immense numbers were unavailing , and worse than useless . 
It was now , as they began to exhibit a consciousness of their difficulties , and swayed to and fro beneath the raking fire of the artillery , that Vasco Nunez gave the signal for his little troop of cavalry to move from the wings towards the centre , and increase , with a new form of danger and terror , the confusion under which the assailants struggled . 
Then came the thundering tread of the horse , followed by his plunging form , his fire-breathing nostril , and the keen edge of that sword which it was the boast of the Spanish cavalier , could , with a single stroke of a good arm , sever the naked savage in twain . 
Vasco Nunez looked on with feelings of commiseration new to the Spanish warrior . 
Himself wounded , he yet strove where the fight was thickest , being resolute to die rather than retreat . 
He had seen how rapidly the work of death went on where the horsemen ploughed their way among the flying , the fighting and the dead ; and with a desperate valour , he turned his arms in the quarter where he seemed most likely to encounter them . 
Already he had advanced among the conflicting fugitives , though with great difficulty , to a point which was threatened by the cavalry . 
They were near at hand , and but one dense mass of his people stood between him and certain death . 
They beheld the station which had been taken by their sovereign , and saw his danger . 
demanded the sanguinary Pizarro , riding up to Vasco Nunez -- his eye glaring with the tiger 's rage , while his hands were glued to his sabre hilt by the blood which had dripped down from its crimson edge . 
When Vasco Nunez advanced to the assistance of his lieutenant , the cassique had disappeared , and no foe remained in sight but the fearless Caonabo , sustained by some fifty of the savages . 
These , as the re-enforcement came to the relief of Pizarro , began to retire slowly from the field ; but the blood of Vasco Nunez was inflamed by this unlooked-for resistance and interruption to his conquest . 
He was not willing to suffer the escape of a warrior who had shown himself so capable . 
Giving the command to charge , he himself led the way against the retiring fugitive , and vainly did the latter seek to check his advance by a timely and skilful use of his shaft . 
Vasco Nunez wore a complete suit of mail , which defied the adroitness of the savage . 
His steed was also protected by a clothing of mail and padded cotton which protected him in all vital parts . 
He had not escaped without wounds , however , and his vigour was diminished in consequence of fatigue and loss of blood . 
But the rising anger of his rider drove him forward in the pursuit , and the proud Caonabo beholding with what tenacious hostility the pursuing Spaniard kept only upon his track without seeming to heed the assaults made upon him by his followers , conceived the idea of giving him the battle which he desired . 
Surprised at such a salutation and in his own language , but still more enraged at its audacity , Vasco Nunez , pricking his reluctant steed with his dagger , drove him forward as Caonabo had expected . 
The steed of Vasco Nunez was one of a thousand , and carried him over the rocks without stumble or impediment . 
Before Vasco Nunez could extricate himself from among the rocks , the fugitive chief had disappeared from sight , probably not without severe hurt , but through passages where no horseman might pursue . 
TheIndians disappeared from the surrounding heights with the events of that bloody day , and the path of discovery , for a brief distance , lay open to Vasco Nunez . 
Impatient to proceed on his path of conquest and renown,-Vasco Nunez was yet too wise and thoughtful to push an enterprise which called for adequate preparation . 
A premature attempt he well knew would only result in disappointment , and would , most probably , impair his own reputation to so great a degree , as to lose him the confidence and command of his followers . 
Thus straightened , he reconciled himself , as well as he might , to the necessities of his situation . 
He strengthened his colony by additional entrenchments , built houses for his people , and laid out gardens for the cultivation of grain and vegetables . 
A portion of his men , the feeble and unenterprising , were employed in these necessary labours ; while the rest were despatched on various missions , either of conquest or discovery , along the neighbouring coast and throughout the country . 
He himself seldom left the colony , reserving himself for those larger perils only , which , as they involved the greater objects , necessarily implied the greatest dangers . 
Between the mountains before him and the seas behind him , the glance of his eyes and the expectations of his heart were equally divided . 
The one rose between him and those meditated conquests , which he might not hope to obtain without that succour which he knew could only reach him by the other ; and anxiously , indeed , did he pray for the success of his messenger in Spain , who was to defend his conduct before his sovereign , and provide him with those supplies which he fondly hoped were to acknowledge his past , and facilitate his prosecution of new , achievements . 
His men saw nothing in the countenance and conduct of their leader , but the firm enthusiastic courage and confidence of a spirit born for success , and pursuing the only paths by which he might command it ; but pacing the melancholy shore , looking wistfully over its chafing waters , a gloom , like that which broods over their solemn waste , gathered new strength in his bosom with every added moment of his watch . 
There , or along the mountain paths , over which he sometimes clambered to muse in secret upon his more than mountain projects , dark clouds gathered upon his brow , the certain token of those doubts which for ever haunt the path of human ambition , and gather above the summits of its loftiest hopes . 
Such results as these aroused Vasco Nunez to the necessity of undertaking the minor adventures himself ; and some information which he obtained from two of the men whom Nicuesa had left at Nombre de Dios , determined him upon a journey of greater peril and extent than any that had been made before . 
Of its wealth in gold they gave a glowing account to Vasco Nunez , and spoke of immense and secret stores of provisions to which they could guide him without difficulty , pledging their lives for the success of any enterprise against his dominions . 
This offer , and the intelligence which they conveyed to him , determined Vasco Nunez upon his course . 
Choosing a hundred and thirty men , from the most resolute of his command , he at once set off for the province of Coyba . 
But the wary and wily enemy who had so long watched his movements , hung around them still , and though he suffered his march to remain unmolested , he noted every step in his progress , and the Cassique of Coyba was duly informed of the approaching foe . 
A single moment sufficed Vasco Nunez to destroy the hope of the cassique . 
His spear , severed at the first stroke of the Spanish sword , left his head unguarded for the second , while his prostrate form lay beneath the feet of the cavalier . 
Angry with the strife , and roused to all that minor sort of madness , without the blinding influence of which man would probably seldom strike his fellow-man , Vasco Nunez prepared to repeat the blow which must have severed the head from the shoulders of his opponent ; when , as they beheld the danger of their chief , the Indians , to a man , threw down their weapons , and sunk with an appalling shriek of terror to the ground . 
Vasco Nunez was charmed by this unexpected apparition . 
Never had so bright and ethereal a creature descended before his eyes . 
Matchless in grace , as she lay before him , one arm around the cassique , one lifted imploringly to the conqueror , while her tearful eyes pleaded with the more eloquence that her lips were silent , he thought her one of those heavenly visions which sometimes hallow and delight even the dreams of the unrelenting soldier , and move him to momentary feelings of gentleness and love . 
Vasco Nunez , if a common rude soldier , might have found some difficulty in replying to so pathetic and well-grounded a rebuke . 
With arguments like these , and by a grace of manner , which , in a being confessedly so superior , was beyond any argument beside , Vasco Nunez soon conciliated the favour and removed the anger of his savage host . 
`` There should not be strife between us , '' replied the cassique -- `` and it were madness in me to hope to contend with a warrior who wears such a weapon as this , '' touching the sword as he spoke -- `` and can cleave a man in twain at a single stroke . 
`` I do not seek to harm thee , '' replied Vasco Nunez , `` it gives me no pleasure to destroy and slay , nor , indeed , should I have descended upon thee in anger as I have done , but that I know thou hast taken counsel from the Cassique of Darien , to withstand me with thy warriors . 
The eye of Vasco Nunez turned anxiously and sadly upon the downcast features of the shrinking damsel , who clung to her father 's arm as if dreading her instant removal . 
thou shalt go with me , Careta -- thou shalt be the wife of Vasco Nunez . '' 
The girl rose meekly , and crossing over to where Vasco Nunez stood , put her hand in his with all the confiding trust of the innocent and hopeful child . 
With emotions , strange and insuppressible , Vasco Nunez took the girl in his arms and folded her to his mail clad bosom . 
The hand of the astrologer was laid upon his shoulder . 
I tell thee , my friend , that the pure heart of this heathen maiden is at this moment dearer in the eyes of Vasco Nunez than all the gifts of glory ever promised by the stars . '' 
`` Ah , Vasco , my son , couldst thou see with eyes like mine ; already art thou far advanced on the path of thy greatness , and the danger that awaits thee is still the danger from a woman . '' 
The stars themselves could not make of this pure-hearted and trusting damsel an enemy of Vasco Nunez . '' 
And he again clasped the maiden to his bosom at these words , with a tenderness which surprised the savages , who had beheld in him only the stern warrior before . 
`` I know it , father , '' cried Vasco Nunez promptly giving him his hand , `` and thou shouldst know that I feel it even when in my impatience of rebuke I should seem to forget . 
Then turning to the cassique he said -- `` Coyba , our interests are one . 
Withthe morning , Vasco Nunez set forth with his warriors , and attended by the Cassique of Coyba with a large body of the natives , he advanced upon the neighbouring territories of Ponca , the enemy of his ally . 
But Ponca had been well apprised of the approach of his powerful foe , and had received the instructions of Zemaco to fly from before him . 
He took refuge in the passes of the mountains , where he busied himself in collecting his men , and uniting himself with other minor chiefs prepared to make a stand in situations where it would be impossible for the Spanish horse to operate . 
But having left behind him his chief treasures in his flight , Vasco Nunez did not care to pursue him . 
The Cassique of Coyba was not unwilling to display to his neighbours the great superiority of his ally , and persuaded Vasco Nunez accordingly to advance upon his territories also . 
He sent forth a deputation of his chief men who conducted them to his palace , -- a huge building of wood , described by the historians of that time as being no less than one hundred and fifty yards in length , and eighty in breadth , surrounded by a wall of stone , and , after the manner of that people , admirably furnished within . 
Each of these slaves bore a vessel of gold , and while the Spaniards looked on , wondering at the profusion of wealth so suddenly spread before them , the slaves at another signal of Comagre , advanced each , and laid his burden at the feet of Vasco Nunez . 
`` These are for the chief warrior of the king of Spain , '' said Comagre -- `` Let him be a friend to Comagre henceforward . 
Then , after gratefully thanking the cassique for his gift , Vasco Nunez bade the treasurer advance and separate one-fifth of the gold to be set apart for the sovereign . 
The rest he gave to his soldiers to be divided among themselves . 
Vasco Nunez was compelled to interfere in the language of authority , but his commands , though productive of instant obedience , would scarcely have served to soothe and satisfy the discontented , but for the sudden and strange action of the son of Comagre . 
exclaimed Vasco Nunez , with impatience , proposing an inquiry which his followers conceived to be strangely at variance with the true question which he should have made . 
exclaimed Vasco Nunez , grasping the arm of the astrologer , with an action that seemed strange to his followers no less than to the Indians . 
The young savage smiled when he saw the exultation which gleamed from the eyes of the cavalier -- an exultation which well informed him of the growing purpose in his mind . 
demanded Vasco Nunez . 
`` Thou art yet to know the Spaniard , '' replied Vasco Nunez . 
and as he spake these words , he gave orders for the discharge of one of his pieces , the effect of which he well knew would be more convincing than any boast which he could make of the powers of his men . 
When the terror and wonder of the Indians had subsided , Vasco Nunez , by a series of questions , drew from Comagre all that he desired to know of the people and the mountains lying between him and the object of his desire . 
His heart was burning and leaping within him to overpass these narrow boundaries , and overcome the obstructions that gathered in his path of greatness . 
But when he looked round upon his little band , half of them already rendered incapable of fatigue or fight by reason of the toils and exposure they had already undergone , he was compelled with a sigh to defer the period of his full and final triumph . 
But in order the sooner to effect it , he found it necessary to return instantly to his little government of Darien . 
A rash man -- one filled with his own unregulated enthusiasm , -- would have marched onward , regarding nothing but his own desires ; but with a daring that fell nothing short of the most adventurous , Vasco Nunez possessed an overruling sense , and a judgment of calm , deliberative , and comprehensive character , which was studious always to adapt his means to his ends , and to avoid the injudicious exposure of his little armament , however great might be the inducement , and however insignificant the danger . 
He was so small , and seemingly effeminate of person , that when Vasco Nunez came to examine the soldiers brought by Valdivia , he wondered much that he should have accepted so inadequate a person . 
When Vasco Nunez heard this account of the young man , he called him out from the rest , and questioned him after the following manner . 
The eyes of the youth were fixed on the ground as he uttered this reply , and a suspicious eye might have remarked a slight emotion in his frame , as if a tremor shook it . 
But Vasco Nunez beheld nothing , while he replied : `` And where is he , Pedro ? 
He fell by the hand of the midnight assassin ; and , shame to me that I say it , his murderer yet lives , and -- '' He paused , his lips quivered and became almost livid , while his eyes looked a venomous anger , even upon those of Vasco Nunez , and he clutched the dagger at his girdle with an almost spasmodic grasp . 
Vasco Nunez surveyed the face of the speaker with a look of inquiry , that truly indicated the feeling of doubt in his mind . 
With these words , Vasco Nunez left him to proceed to other duties . 
Having thus spoken , the boy , concealing his bitter mood under a face of smiling and conciliation , passed from the apartment where his conference had taken place with Vasco Nunez , and , leaving the ordinary thorough-fare , took his way towards the sea-shore , where , in wandering and melancholy fancies , he consumed the brief period of time which had been allotted him . 
He then returned to the dwelling in which he had been instructed to await the commands of his superior . 
WhilePedro waited without , a slave brought him word that Vasco Nunez desired his presence in an inner room , to which he conducted him . 
Here , he found Vasco Nunez , attended by Valdivia , to whom he was giving his parting instructions for his return to Hispaniola . 
At the feet of Vasco Nunez , lay the favourite Leonchico , who raised his head at the entrance of the boy , and surveyed him with a keen watchfulness that betokened some jealousy , if not distrust ; -- while , sitting upon a sort of ottoman , rudely constructed from the severed shaft of a pine , and covered with padded cotton , such as the natives were wont to use commonly in the decoration of their furniture and houses , sat the Indian damsel , Careta , busily intent in working , after the fashion of her people , a tippet of dyed cotton , over which she was distributing , with the natural and felicitous taste of the woman , a handful of seedy pearl , which , under the rapid movements of her fingers , soon began to assume , upon the garment , all the several shapes of leaf , bird , and flower . 
With these words , Vasco Nunez left the boy to his task , and , turning to Valdivia , he resumed the tenor of those instructions , touching his business in Hispaniola , which rendered his instant departure necessary . 
Vasco Nunez was a man proverbially frank and fearless , and he recounted to Valdivia , not only the facts which had transpired in Darien while under his command , but even the hopes that grew out of his own calculations , and the plans which he had formed , the better to realize the resources which he knew to be in the country . 
When he entered and was seated , Vasco Nunez continued his enthusiastic and but half imagined pictures of the new world , yet in waiting for the tread of the conqueror ; and from his glowing narratives and vigorous plans , the bold and savage soldier gathered that knowledge of the regions to which the eyes of the cavalier were turned , which enabled the former , in after days , to achieve the conquest of the empire of the Incas . 
Pizarro hearkened with greedy ears to the rich visions which Vasco Nunez described as truths , and which proved so to his hearer if not to himself . 
He summed up the various scraps of information afforded by individuals of different Indian tribes , all tending to confirm his grand theory of the southern sea , and the mighty continent which its waters laved , and which yielded , from its sands and mountains , an unfailing tribute of the virgin gold . 
`` But three hundred and seventy in all , '' mused Vasco Nunez , `` and of these not two hundred in condition for service . 
`` The papers are finished , señor , '' replied the boy rising and placing them before his superior . 
While Vasco Nunez prepared to peruse one of the despatches , Pizarro took another into his hands , and looked with a degree of interest and curiosity over the document , which , though perceptible to Vasco Nunez , he yet regarded without seeming consciousness . 
A single glance of the eye of Vasco Nunez taught Pedro his error , but the evil was already done , and from that moment the boy knew Francisco Pizarro for his mortal enemy . 
When the business of the morning was over , Valdivia despatched , and of the council the boy alone remained with Vasco Nunez , that cavalier spoke to him thus : `` Pedro , thou hast unwittingly made a foe of Francisco Pizarro . 
The thought insensibly rose into the mind of the boy as he departed from the presence of Vasco Nunez : -- `` Surely , this is one of the great men of Spain . 
said Vasco Nunez to the damsel when they were alone . 
`` Doth not my lord know , '' replied the girl , with eyes radiant with smiles and tears , as , throwing herself upon the rush-covered floor of the apartment , she placed her hands upon his knees , and looked up into his face . 
Her words , a sort of broken Spanish , in which language he himself strove to be her tutor , were sweeter to his ears from the lisp which accompanied and added to their imperfectness . 
He gazed upon her sweet and girlish features with a degree of tenderness that lost none of its character , because it was mingled with something of sorrow if not of regret . 
she demanded with trembling tones and a broken dialect that seemed to go more deeply into the heart of Vasco Nunez , as it reminded him of her entire dependence upon him , than if it had been uttered by the polished lips of the noble Spanish maiden , and in the sweetly sonorous language of Castile . 
And an expression of disappointment passed over the face of the damsel , as she turned her eyes from the portrait to meet the watchful and fond glance of Vasco Nunez . 
Sitting upon the rushes of the floor , with her hand resting upon his knees , while her eyes were riveted , with equal admiration and curiosity , upon the face of the cavalier , the maiden disposed herself in silence . 
Weekswent by after this manner , and Vasco Nunez remained in Darien . 
Not that he remained either idle or inactive . 
The pleasant employments of his domestic life , such as we have faintly sketched them in our last chapter , were not suffered to interfere with his duties to the colony , nor to produce that luxurious desire of ease which has overthrown so many of the world 's most boasted conquerors . 
Domestic troubles were at hand also for his annoyance , -- even insurrection -- in all of which , displaying the wisdom of a master mind , and the energies of a master spirit , the star of Vasco Nunez still continued to rise , soaring and spreading as it grew , until its bright glances glistened with unqualified lustre over the secret waters of the Pacific ocean . 
It was while Vasco Nunez turned his eager but divided glance , at the same moment , to the seas which led to Europe , and to those frowning mountains that stood up between him and the mighty prize for which he was contending -- as if resolute to bar his progress -- that the ungenerous fortune , which ever seems resolute to baffle those who rely rather upon their own resources of strength and genius , and scorn to pay blind allegiance to a deity , herself blind -- with a malice no less mean than unreasonable -- operated against him in the court of his sovereign , to the confirmation of all those fears which for so long a time had vexed his thoughts by day , and haunted his sleep by night with distressing visions . 
To defend himself against these latter accusations , Zamudio informed Vasco Nunez , that he would soon be summoned to repair to Spain to answer in proper person to his sovereign . 
This stunning intelligence , which was , however , unofficial , and consequently unknown to any in the colony but himself and such confidential persons as he thought worthy to be entrusted with the secret , for a time overcame his spirit and cast him down in strength and heart , leaving him incapable of thought and action . 
Bitterly in the recesses of his chamber , with no eye but that of the Indian damsel upon him , did he curse his confiding simplicity that felt shame at the bare idea of having any fear of such a creature as Enciso . 
Still , though Vasco Nunez felt all this , there was mingled with his indignation a degree of regard and love , which he could not overcome ; and he sighed , with a strange contradiction of thought , with the vain wish that the same accents of devotion which had been uttered by the poor Indian damsel , could have fallen from the lips of the proud Spanish beauty . 
How much dearer still , he fancied , would they have been to his ears , spoken by Teresa . 
Still , though thus labouring under the workings of a divided heart , Vasco Nunez was not the person to do injustice to the true , through a still lingering attachment for the false , woman . 
The very doubt which he felt that in thinking thus of Teresa , he was wronging the fidelity of Careta , led him to a still deeper sentiment of gratitude to the latter ; and lifting her from the floor at his feet , he pressed his lips upon her forehead ; then , placing her by his side , while he seated himself upon a rude bench in the apartment , he began more clearly to convey to her understanding the general tenor of those tidings which had just reached his ears , and had so painfully wrought upon his feelings . 
But while the damsel listened in profound silence to the narrative , which she could only slowly comprehend , the humility of her devotion was such that she could not maintain the position in which he had placed her . 
The astrologer was followed by the youth , Pedro , whom Vasco Nunez had tacitly adopted as his secretary . 
As yet , the unofficial intelligence brought to the cavalier in his private letter from Zamudio , had been withheld from the colony ; and Micer Codro himself , up to this moment , was unapprised of the threatening tidings which it contained . 
It was not the intention , however , of Vasco Nunez , to keep the matter from one so entirely his friend , and at his entrance the communication was put into his hand . 
When he read it , the paper fell from his grasp -- his cheeks were suddenly blanched , and tears -- big , unrestrainable tears -- such as spring from the heart which hope has deserted in the moment of its greatest seeming triumph -- burst unbidden from his eyes , while a groan which seemed to come from the very soul , but no word , broke from his lips . 
The youth Pedro , alone , to whom the meaning of all this was a mystery , looked to one and another of the several persons around him with an air of wonder which he found it as impossible to conceal , as the rest of the company the emotions which affected them ; and the face of Vasco Nunez , which , if sad , was firm , conveyed no explanation to his mind of the engrossing trouble which distressed them . 
His humble position , no less than the imposing solemnity of their aspects , prevented his making any inquiry into the mystery which yet filled him with the keenest curiosity . 
He was not destined , however , to remain long in ignorance . 
With a smile of bitter sadness , Vasco Nunez advanced to the astrologer . 
These , '' crumbling the despatches within his hands , and hurling them behind him as he spoke -- `` these speak another language than thy oracles ; ay , Micer Codro , and a far less questionable language . 
which '' -- here his tones were subdued almost to a whisper -- `` which will my soldiers believe , think you ? 
Thou say ` st well and rightly , Micer Codro , for , of a truth , had not my own heart too ably counselled , and my own ambition too fondly urged , be sure thy predictions had never moved Vasco Nunez de Balboa , to lift foot or finger on this daring progress . 
Vasco Nunez looked upon the countenance of the youth for a brief instant , then exclaimed -- `` Nay , let him remain ; he hath the soul of a man , if he be not one , and I fear not to trust him . 
With features , the constant working of which showed the perpetually changing and active mood of the mind within , Vasco Nunez paced to and fro through the apartment , his eyes cast upon the ground , and his lips , though quick with life and frequently in motion , yet giving forth no sound or accent . 
There was a fascinating something in the whole air of the superior , in the tones of his voice , in his bitter smile , and hurried but firm gesture , that fixed the eyes of the secretary Pedro , even more than they did those of the wondering damsel , whose limbs seemed frozen to the spot to which she had advanced on witnessing the sudden and confounding effect of the despatches upon the astrologer . 
The youth could readily conceive , from what had been suffered to escape from Vasco Nunez and Micer Codro , the dangers and difficulties that hung about the fortunes of the former . 
None could know better than himself , the evils to be feared from a collision in that day between the subject and his sovereign , particularly when the mind and valour of the first had opened the pathway to treasures of which the last desired to avail himself , without being liable to any of the concessions which justice might esteem the due of gratitude . 
He had already been apprised of the relation in which Vasco Nunez stood to the Bachelor Enciso -- the memorial which he had copied but a short time before , had sufficiently apprised him on that head . 
Besides , he well knew from facts notorious to the colony , that the Bachelor was urging his specious charges against his rival , in the royal presence . 
The fearless resolution which made Vasco Nunez himself rise higher and stand more erect , and endowed his words and voice with a nobler energy , when the venerable counsellor who stood in no such danger , was cast down and trembled , had a charm in the mind of the youth which fascinated his attention , and made him breathless as he listened to a dialogue , which , as it involved the future progress of the cavalier , necessarily involved his fate . 
Slowly indeed came forth the accents of the astrologer , in reply to the demand of Vasco Nunez , and how wanting to the necessity -- how vain and unsatisfactory did they appear ! 
Hope , without action or effort of his own , to the proud , fearless , energetic mind , always resolute upon its own performances , is a mere mockery ; and bitter , almost contemptuous , was the smile which overcast the face of Vasco Nunez , as the astrologer spoke to him in some such language as the following : `` In truth , my son , -- I know not what to say , or how to counsel you . 
The accustomed hopes of such men were all withheld from Vasco Nunez . 
The probabilities were all in array against him -- even the supports of friendship , and the encouragements of sympathy were unoffered or denied , in the general stupor which they felt under the unfavourable aspect of his fortune ; and it is from the very incapability of all ordinary help and counsel , that the strong man , forced back upon his own soul , then asserts that native superiority and strength that can never be entirely known even to himself , till goaded into activity by the stirring and potential necessity . 
Go forth , my friend -- let the soldiers know that the hour is come , according to thy nightly observation , when it is decreed that Vasco Nunez shall achieve his greatest triumph . 
Meanwhile , Vasco Nunez turned to the youth , Pedro , who still remained in his apartment . 
`` Thou hast heard , Pedro , '' he began after a brief pause , in which the ferment of his blood seemed somewhat to subside -- `` Thou hast heard something of this business , and may readily guess the rest . 
Vasco Nunez proceeded to review his troops ; and with an increased audacity which added still more to the astonishment of the astrologer , contented himself with little more than one half of his real force in the prosecution of his meditated enterprise . 
If you know me , it will be enough that I tell ye that I , Vasco Nunez de Balboa , will march at your head , will guide ye in your true path , and lead the charge in every conflict . 
With a more decorous movement , but with no less real enthusiasm , the second and third classes which Vasco Nunez had designated , approached him in like number , and he soon found that to accept all who offered would far exceed his limitation . 
It was not easy to soothe those whom he was compelled to reject ; but , as we have already said , and the various chronicles confirm , the persuasive powers of Vasco Nunez were scarcely less remarkable than his genius and valour . 
The enthusiasm of all parties filled the heart of Vasco Nunez with a grateful triumph . 
`` Now could I spoil this triumph at a word , '' was the unexpressed thought of the youth Pedro , as he gazed upon the glowing face of Vasco Nunez , and beheld the enthusiastic devotion of the soldiers . 
A single word to Pizarro , and Vasco Nunez is cut down -- cast down , like the Philistian Dagon , his head rolling from his shoulders . 
The youth , as if doubting his own resolution , hurried towards the spot where Pizarro was choosing his individual command . 
He no longer felt the resolution to destroy Vasco Nunez by such an agent . 
he muttered to himself as he turned away slowly and proceeded to retrace his steps -- `` that the lion should rend the lion , or the eagle strive with the eagle unto the death of both , were not ungrateful in the eyes of valour and true greatness , but that I should arm the snake against either , were something full of shame . 
Neither have I sworn against the fame but only against the life of Vasco Nunez . 
Let him triumph -- let him win these southern waters which are his dream , and these new empires which he fancies will reward his dream -- am I not with him -- can I not slay him at any moment when this triumph is obtained ? 
In that moment when his conquest is secure I will strike for vengeance . 
I will then destroy him . '' 
The person of whom he spoke , at this moment called him to his side . 
`` Nay , señor , but thou wilt do me great injustice if such be in truth thy purpose ; '' replied the youth earnestly , and with an expression of sorrow in his face which was truly felt in his heart , and which he could not hide . 
`` Be not rash , Pedro , '' replied the other , `` of a truth , I would choose to have thee with me ever , even as I have promised thee ; but to take thee with me on a perilous adventure , such as that before me , were to mislead thy youth , and do wrong to the very faith which thou hast put in me ; look you , boy '' -- here he lowered his voice to a whisper , and led the youth away , as he replied , from the hearing of all others -- `` know you not that the chances are thick against us in the perils which we go forth to encounter ? 
Vasco Nunez pleaded earnestly with the boy , but the latter remained unmoved . 
`` If , '' said he , `` I have hearkened to the words of wisdom from the lips of Micer Codro , I have yet also listened to the more grateful answer of wisdom and valour which fell from thy lips in reply . 
These words , and the tacit reproach with which the youth concluded his reply , were conclusive with Vasco Nunez . 
Thou shalt go with me -- it shall not be from thy lips that Vasco Nunez shall hear rebuke for broken faith . 
It was on the first of September , says the historian , that this daring cavalier embarked with his followers in a brigantine and several large piraguas for the dominions of the cassique of Coyba ; his daughter , Careta , who had acquired no small influence over Vasco Nunez , accompanied him in this expedition . 
Standing to the northwestward , he reached Coyba without accident in a few days , and was received with open arms by the cassique of the province . 
Here he made his final preparations for the painful and dangerous journey he was about to take ; he offered up prayers to the Deity , and caused mass to be performed , with a degree of solemnity which , while it impressed his own people no less than the savages , with a feeling of religious enthusiasm , mingled with some little awe at the perils rising before their path , attested the soaring and serious resolution of their leader 's mind , making him appear , at the time , something more than the mere commander ; and giving him the attitude and aspect of one of those stern leaders of the people , under God , commissioned to achieve miraculous conquests , and assured of the confirming smile of the Deity in every effort and adventure . 
It was , perhaps , no small help to Vasco Nunez , that such became the persuasion of his followers on this occasion . 
It may be added that the boy , Pedro , was not the last to acknowledge this influence over his mind , which the high-souled superiority of Vasco Nunez seemed to assert , with little qualification , over the minds of all . 
Six days after the departure of the cavalier from Darien , he struck off for the mountains on his bold and perilous adventure . 
The Cassique of Coyba provided him with guides and a number of Indian warriors , who were used in carrying provisions , and in scouting along their intricate and toilsome path . 
Of his own warriors , brought with him from Santa Maria , he took but one half , the rest being left at Coyba in charge of the brigantine . 
But these were his tried men , chiefly armed with arquebusses , and they were attended by a large number of bloodhounds -- a foe no less formidable to the Indians than their masters . 
But his retreat was discovered , and he sent in his submission to the invaders , and came , though with fear and trembling , into the presence of Vasco Nunez . 
His terrors gave place to a more subdued , though yet stronger feeling of reverence for the heroic Spaniard ; and beholding in him a superior , as much distinguished by benevolence as might , he was soon converted from a distrustful foe into an obedient and devoted friend . 
The virtual rebellion of Coyba , in forming an alliance with his foe , was already known to him , and the defection of Ponca he was apprised of almost as soon as the latter had made his appearance before Vasco Nunez . 
Zemaco , as one who sees the wing and shadow of death above him , that the cassique of the Spaniard , whom they call Vasco Nunez , is one to conquer all lands and all people -- before whose path your warriors will melt as the thick mists that gather in the evening shadows melt and vanish before the bright eyes of the morning sun . 
The fugitive did as he was bidden , and retiring from the encampment , which now lay contiguous to the mountain paths over which Vasco Nunez prepared to lead his little command , he wandered among the rocks , gloomily , but in calm , brooding over the defeat of his plans , and the threatening aspect of his fortunes . 
He was joined by his wife , the devoted , true-hearted woman , Buru . 
`` Father , chief , Caonabo , '' she exclaimed , as she approached him -- `` know you that the chief who leads the Spaniard is he who would have saved the boy from the sharp sword of Garabito ? 
He had , with a tenderness rather due to his Haytien connexions than to his Charaibean birth , withheld from her the painful doom which awaited him as the penalty following inevitably the failure of his plans ; and with the fond conviction that while she saved the noble Spaniard she harmed none , and least of all , the lord of her own life and affections , she resolved that very night to descend into the plain -- availing herself of the absence of Caonabo , who was about to set forth with the army of his jealous enemy , Quarequa -- and apprise Vasco Nunez of the purpose of those who would seek him with proffers of service , and bringing with them those treasures of gold and pearls , which , she well knew , would tempt the Spaniard to any degree of confidence , as they tempted also to any measure of rashness . 
Vasco Nunez raised her from the earth , and gazed steadfastly on her agonized features ; but the rapid passage of events , and the continual change of faces passing before him , had almost obliterated her mild and humble , but truly beautiful , features from his memory , until , seeing the abstracted and inquiring expression of his glance , she exclaimed in accents still broken and impaired by sobs -- `` Buru , master -- Buru . 
said Vasco Nunez , with a feeling of astonishment prevailing over all others , -- `` Can it be ? 
With more art than she commonly employed , she evaded this inquiry , and proceeded with as little delay as possible to declare her object , and apprise him of the dangers which awaited him from the approaching deputation . 
demanded Vasco Nunez . 
`` Shrewdly spoken , Buru -- thou may ` st depart ; but thou shalt wear this for my sake around thy neck , so that when the Spaniard shall meet thee , he will say , this is one whom Vasco Nunez loves , and will leave thee unharmed . 
was the only exclamation of the woman , as he flung around her neck a little crucifix of silver , with the image of the dying Jesus attached . 
Vasco Nunez himself conducted her beyond the limits of the camp , and deported himself the while , without forgetting the air of the superior , with all the respectful deference of one who feels how much that is venerable is associated with the idea and the person of a mother . 
`` Micer Codro , '' he said to the astrologer , at returning , `` our star serves us well at seasons , but I can not help the thought which tells me thou hast not yet learned truly to decipher its language . 
cried Vasco Nunez hastily , interrupting the old man -- `` No , Micer Codro , I should as soon look to thee for falsehood as to that meek woman of Hayti . 
Before the dawn of day , the fifty messengers of Zemaco appeared in the camp of Vasco Nunez , and so far confirmed the truth of the tidings brought by Buru . 
They were received by the Spanish cavalier with a cold indifference of manner which effectually concealed from them his discovery . 
The preparedness in which the Spaniards stood for battle , did not alarm them , since , under the command of Vasco Nunez , the Indians had never found them otherwise . 
They delivered up the rich presents which they brought , and he beheld them placed at his feet with a countenance that underwent no change . 
He heard with a like inflexibility , the glowing protestations of the orator , who headed the deputation , and described for Zemaco , the fond and friendly interest which his master entertained in the fortunes of the Spaniard , in language , the warmth and exuberance of which , fitly corresponded with its insincerity . 
When he had finished , the cavalier regarded his unsinking , unabashed countenance with a piercing gaze , that might have made less rigid muscles than those of the Indian , quiver with shame and apprehension . 
said Vasco Nunez to the speaker , after a brief pause . 
`` Thou , '' said Vasco Nunez to one of the prisoners , whom he commanded to be released , `` thou shalt go back to Zemaco ; tell him that the Spaniard sees into his heart and knows all its falsehood -- that he hath spoken to me with a lying tongue , and I will put his warriors to death if he will not come to me in person . 
Then , bending almost to the earth , with an air of the profoundest deference , at the feet of Vasco Nunez , he turned gracefully from the presence and was soon hidden from sight in the crowd of gathering shadows that thicken at the coming of the dawn . 
Such was the salutation of Caonabo when the woman of Hayti stood before him on the evening of the day which followed that night when she sought the tents of the Spaniard . 
he cried in fierce accents , as , falling from the bosom where she had concealed it , the silver cross given her by Vasco Nunez became revealed to his sight . 
He seized the sacred emblem as he spoke , and tearing it from her neck , while she vainly endeavoured to arrest his arm , flung it over into one of the wild abysses of the mountains where they lay . 
His fierce demand which received no answer , was again repeated , and , still incapable of speech , she sank prostrate upon her face before him , while his wrath , rising into almost ungovernable violence as he surveyed her , prompted him to spurn her with his lifted foot . 
The moaning , inarticulate prayer for mercy alone reached his ears ; and her eyes were not once uplifted from the ground . 
His tone and whole manner suddenly changed . 
His words and accents were alike mournful . 
He left her prostrate where she lay and went forth to where the warriors were assembling . 
There , in the presence of the host , Quarequa informed him of the messenger from the Spanish chief and of the fortune which had befallen the fifty warriors . 
What effect this policy of the fugitive cassique might have had upon the progress and the fortunes of Vasco Nunez , if continued , may not be so readily affirmed ; but the inference is fair , from what is already known , that , with the slender forces of the Spanish conqueror , his insecure position in the regard of his sovereign , and the restless , reckless and impatient character of the men whom he commanded , he must have been baffled sufficiently long in his march across the peninsula , to have made him so unpopular with both sovereign and people , as to have led to his deposition ; and this event , by placing the Spaniards under the command of inadequate leaders , would , more certainly than any other , have produced that equality between the parties which was the chief object in all the labours of Caonabo . 
Vasco Nunez was a wary captain . 
He saw no foes while ascending the ambushed pass , but his quick military eye readily conceived the excellence of such a position for the purpose to which Caonabo had preferred it . 
He commanded a halt , and resolved to devote some time to a survey of the ground in order to the choice of a less perilous pathway . 
But , fortunately for his little army , the rash character of the cassique who led the main body of the Indians , now doubly stimulated to temerity by the exciting controversy which had taken place between himself and the fugitive chief , and no less encouraged , perhaps , by the unexpected show of caution on the part of the Spaniards , hastily emerged into sight from the cover which concealed him , and rushing forward with all his force , himself entered upon the passage , the heights overlooking which were lined with the still hidden warriors of Caonabo . 
The onset of Quarequa relieved Vasco Nunez from any apprehension of danger from the heights , and , pouring in a dreadful volley from his arquebusses , he rushed forward to the melée , leading the way himself for his no less resolute followers . 
Quarequa paid for his temerity in the first joining of the battle . 
A shot struck him in the brain , and he fell without a groan , his own headlong followers rushing , unconsciously for a while , over his prostrate body . 
Vasco Nunez recognized his opponent at a glance . 
The Indian meanwhile threw aside his equally ineffectual club , and grasping Vasco Nunez around the body with one arm , heedless of the repeated strokes which the latter bestowed with his broken weapon upon his head , he raised a dagger with the other hand , the stroke of which was only baffled by the keen eye and quick movement of the Spaniard . 
Practised in every sleight in the use of his weapon -- proverbially `` egregius digladiator , '' -- Vasco Nunez caught the uplifted arm of his tenacious foe , and flinging away his own broken weapon in the same instant , with a strength which awakened the Indian 's wonder , and which he vainly endeavoured to resist , he wrested the dagger from his hold , and ere he could recede a pace , he drove it , with unrelaxing arm , deep into the eye of his enemy , the sharp point of the steel meeting its first resistance only from the skull behind . 
A carnage followed , which Vasco Nunez vainly endeavoured to restrain ; and it was with a rebuking and gloomy spirit that he walked over the bloody field , and surveyed the grim , fearless faces of the thousand savage warriors whom he had slain , and who seemed still , even in death , to gaze upon him with a stern defiance . 
But when he came to the spot distinguished by his own desperate conflict with the fugitive cassique , he was startled to hear a faint moaning arising from the place , and to behold a woman outstretched beside the corpse of the unconscious warrior . 
The half spoken eulogy which fell unconsciously from Vasco Nunez , renewed the provocation to sorrow in the mind of the hearer . 
The words of Vasco Nunez tended in no way to settle the grief of the woman . 
She was possessed of an idea -- one , most probably , common to her people -- that , as he had doomed her to death , the doom would inevitably be fulfilled by some agency under the instigation of the cruel demon which the Charaibee worshipped ; and all her words and actions tended , after this , to reveal the strong hold which this faith had upon her mind . 
But this done , she proceeded to offices which truly indicated the insane direction of her mind ; and in the tent to which Vasco Nunez had her conducted , and in which she was carefully watched and tended , she busily employed herself in those preliminary rites with which the doomed victim prepares herself for death . 
Fearing that she might employ the same instrument upon herself , Vasco Nunez had it removed from her possession and control . 
Vasco Nunez encamped that night on the field of battle ; his sentinels were placed and his preparations made , as if he had not been the victor , and as if the forces of his foe were still lurking along the hills around him . 
It came from the tent , the only one in the encampment , which Vasco Nunez had assigned , with a considerate humanity , to the widow of the cassique . 
Vasco Nunez was one of the first to leap from his place of rest , and , snatching up his arms as he heard the cry , to rush to the spot whence it proceeded . 
One of the sentinels was already at the tent which he had not yet entered , but from which he averred himself to have seen a tall and shadowy figure depart , the moment after he had been startled by the screams . 
He entered , and his first step was arrested by something which seemed like a human body at his feet . 
he cried aloud , as his own anxiety grew almost intolerable . 
Fearing to harm the person at his foot by any forward movement , he was about to recede , when he felt , with a nameless horror , his sandals almost fastened to the earth by some clammy substance , the nature of which he too readily divined . 
Lights were brought , and he found the unhappy woman on the ground in the person before him . 
Thevictory gained over Quarequa removed from the path of Vasco Nunez all farther obstructions from that savage in his passage onward . 
That warrior with six hundred of his followers lay on the field of battle , having paid , in this manner , the penalty of his impatient valour , and of the mean and fatal jealousy with which he regarded the progress of the fugitive cassique in the confidence of his superior . 
The next day his conqueror reached the flourishing village in which Quarequa dwelt , where he found abundance of those spoils of gold and jewels , which had been sufficient reward for most Spanish conquerors , and amply compensated his followers for all their wounds , toils and perils . 
To him , however , whose heart was set on schemes of far higher object , and whose spirit yearned with that audacious ambition which seeks life beyond man 's ordinary limits -- seeks life among men even when the grave has covered over the feelings , the fears , and the fortunes of his petty hour and mortal part -- the delights shown by his followers at these acquisitions seemed no less ridiculous than base . 
The entreaty of the boy to accompany him in his proposed adventure , at once opened the eyes of Vasco Nunez to the full extent of the wild undertaking which he had contemplated . 
he said , `` thou hast heard then that mad resolution . 
At the cool and bracing hour of daybreak , the little army of Vasco Nunez was in motion . 
`` Upon this , '' in the language of the historian , `` Vasco Nunez commanded his followers to halt , and that no man should stir from his place . 
Then , with a palpitating heart , he ascended above the bare mountain top . 
On reaching the summit , the long desired prospect burst upon his view . 
It was as if a new world were unfolded to him , separated from all hitherto known by this mighty barrier of mountains . 
Below him extended a vast chaos of rock and forest , and green savannahs and wandering streams , while , at a distance , the waters of the promised ocean glittered in the morning sun . '' 
The heart of Vasco Nunez was in the same instant lifted and humbled within him . 
Lifted , as he felt his triumph , at least secure , and the dream of his soaring genius realized at last . 
Humbled , as he surveyed the mighty and magnificent maze before his eyes -- the tangled and unbroken forest -- the boundless and waveless ocean , given as it were by an indulgent Providence , in compliance with the prayers of a mortal -- one still governed by earthly desires , and those vain and vexing passions which seem so utterly unbecoming to the heart whose ambition grasps at the golden honours of immortality . 
he exclaimed chokingly , as he sank upon his knees and pressed his lips to the now consecrated earth . 
Having prayed , Vasco Nunez turned once more to his people and summoned them to approach him from below . 
`` Behold , my friends , '' said he , `` that glorious sight which we have sought so long , and with such great toil . 
A cross , hewn from a gigantic tree , was raised upon the spot whence the ocean was first beheld , and in the name , and for the promotion , of the holy religion he professed , Vasco Nunez took possession of the lands he stood on and the seas which he surveyed , as part of the dominions of the sovereigns of Castile , to whom he renewed his oath of allegiance in presence of all his men . 
The no less excursive but better taught vision of Vasco Nunez , saw much more of the truth , and through a medium no less glorious and inviting . 
Already -- the waters of that new sea scarce beheld -- his daring spirit meditated to embark upon them . 
Already the realms of Atabalipa were unveiling their splendours to his piercing gaze , -- and Imagination , the great surveyor and architect of man , passing the broad realms of ocean that lay between , and throwing open the golden mansions of the sun , had taken her seat upon the lofty throne of the Incas . 
The name of Vasco Nunez belongs as firmly to this mighty rock on which we stand , as the rock to the mightier sea , that sleeps like a giant at its foot . 
Vasco Nunez had forgiven all . 
He was not conscious of one feeling in his bosom which did not declare peace and good will to all mankind . 
Never had the skies appeared to Vasco Nunez so bright with stars . 
The waking dreams of Vasco Nunez were not yet over , and with thoughts and feelings , beneath the awful majesty of which , his frame trembled , he sat down upon the peak of the mountain , and drew unmeaning strokes with his sword-point upon the ground . 
Micer Codro came to his side unheard , while he was busied in this employment . 
The astrologer answered with a sigh : `` So should it be , Vasco Nunez , and such might be the confident hope in our hearts , were it not that we know the blindness of royal favourites , and the madness of royalty , which so often wounds itself through the bosom of its most deserving subjects . 
demanded Vasco Nunez , looking up as he was bidden , and not unimpressed by the reasoning which he had heard , and the solemn manner of the speaker . 
The other paused for a brief space , and when he again spoke , his voice had grown very tremulous with its increasing solemnity . 
`` My son , '' he continued , `` when we last were at Moguer , thou wilt remember how fondly thy old mother sought of me to know thy fortunes . 
But the ends I saw , in thy final , full success , up to this very moment , when the incessant waters at our feet are given to thy sway , and murmur with a voice for the first time audible to Europe , the glory of Vasco Nunez de Balboa ; giving thee the praise of that genius , whose piercing eye sees the hidden ore in the rock , the fine spirit in the cloud , the pure , pale blue jewel in the deep . 
`` Let me look upon that hostile aspect , '' said Vasco Nunez . 
`` Look forth into the west , '' said the astrologer , while , with his finger , he strove to direct the eye of the cavalier to the region , where , mingled with myriads of shining dots , hung the small red orb that teemed with such malignant fires . 
`` I see it , '' said Vasco Nunez , `` but I have no instinct that tells me it is fearful . 
exclaimed Vasco Nunez , rising from the spot , and speaking with a manner which , though solemn , was any thing but apprehensive . 
Still , '' he continued , after a brief pause , `` I confess to thee , Micer Codro , though I fear not death , I yet love life . 
Withthe dawn of day , Vasco Nunez prepared to descend the mountains , and accordingly divided his little band into three several bodies for the discovery of the easier routes to the sea . 
The marvellous discovery was held to be complete when Vasco Nunez , marching waist-deep into the waves of the ocean , claimed its possession and dominion in behalf of the sovereigns of Castile , Leon , and Arragon , Don Ferdinand and Donna Juanna . 
It will be sufficient for our purpose to state in brief that Vasco Nunez returned to Coyba , sick but in safety ; having survived a thousand disasters , having baffled as many dangers -- overcoming all the savage tribes which opposed him , and winning golden spoils at every step in his progress . 
Here he found the simple devoted Indian damsel awaiting him with an anxiety fitly proportioned to the extent of her fears at the perils he had undertaken , and in which , greatly against her desire , his tender regard would not suffer her to share . 
Her love , subdued by the superior awe which she felt in the presence of his greatness , would not permit her to return the fond embrace which he gave her , but she sunk down at his feet and clasped his knees in her arms , and kissed , sobbing all the while , the warlike hand of which she had possessed herself . 
Having rested for a few days at Coyba , he re-embarked for Santa Maria , and reached the river of Darien on the following day . 
When Vasco Nunez surveyed the piles of treasure which had been set aside from his spoils for the royal coffers , he flattered himself that whatever might have been the previous judgment of the avaricious monarch against him , his decision would be altered at a sight of such unusual magnificence , and at tidings of so much greater importance which he was prepared to send him . 
The emissary , after a delay protracted to a length most injurious to the fortunes of his superior , appeared at length in the royal presence , and announcing the successes of Vasco Nunez , laid before him the rich treasures which he had brought , the gold and the pearls , which attested alike the value and the truth of his discoveries . 
All Spain rang with the name and glory of Vasco Nunez , and he , who but a few months before had been adjudged a lawless adventurer , was now lifted to the same eminence with Columbus , and lauded as his most worthy successor . 
Meanwhile , equally unconscious of the honours preparing for him in Spain , and of the approach of that armament which had been commissioned to consign him to punishment or obscurity , Vasco Nunez , throwing aside the habits of the soldier , devoted himself , with paternal solicitude , to the cultivation and improvement of Darien . 
Vasco Nunez was thus employed when , in the month of June , the fleet of Don Pedrarias Davila appeared in the Gulf of Uraba . 
The Spanish cavaliers who came with Davila were eager to land and see the wonders of the place , but the governor , who had been warned of the resolute character of Vasco Nunez , and could readily understand the difference between his own silken followers , and the ` iron men ' who had followed the fortunes , and shared in all the miseries which had befallen Ojeda , Nicuesa , and Vasco Nunez , was cautious enough to restrain their desires , and instead of approaching , in compliance with their clamours , he anchored his fleet at some distance from the settlement . 
He then despatched a messenger to announce to Vasco Nunez his arrival and authority . 
At the first intimation of the truth , his friends gathered about the chief , and the veteran warriors who had followed him so long , seizing their weapons , surrounded his dwelling , and swore to maintain his cause in defiance of any numbers . 
They prayed him to resist the summons of Pedrarias , and , in their clamours against the injustice which he suffered , did not spare their sovereign . 
`` Nay , Pedro , you mistake , '' replied Vasco Nunez -- `` I have not taken this toil and peril for others . 
But a strange struggle took place in the warrior 's feelings as he approached the veterans who surrounded his dwelling , and strove to compose himself while he spoke to them . 
Their arms sank down as he stood forward -- their clamours were suddenly stilled ; as suddenly as the cries of inferior forest tribes , when the lion , rising from his lair , suddenly walks forth from the jungle . 
Vasco Nunez had already come to his resolution , but there was a strong human impulse which he found it difficult to subdue , and which still continued to war against it . 
He did not the less feel the injustice for which his followers , with less discretion , would have had him become a rebel to his sovereign , though he had determined patiently to submit to it , leaving it to time , that calm reviser of man 's judgment and injustice , to do him right , though it might be after the delay of many days . 
There is a majesty in patience which is superior to the greatest display of passion ; and Vasco Nunez lost nothing of his dignity , in the regards of his people , when he declared his intention to submit to the authority set over him . 
`` Go back , '' he said to the messenger of Pedrarias , who stood trembling at his side , the witness of a fury on the part of the enraged soldiery , which , at one moment , threatened to destroy him -- `` go back to Don Pedrarias Davila -- tell him that Vasco Nunez , for himself and his followers , assures him of their welcome and his own . 
Say that I congratulate him on his safe arrival at Darien , and am ready , with all here , to obey his orders . '' 
demanded Vasco Nunez , while the big drop gathered in his eye , as he beheld it in the eyes of many around him . 
were the words of Vasco Nunez , as he retired to his apartments , secluded from all but the devoted Indian damsel , who watched with trembling emotion , but without speech , the varying shadows of his countenance . 
His eye was suddenly fixed upon her anxious features , and a keen , painful memory of Teresa Davila , forced itself upon his mind . 
`` Truly , '' he murmured , `` there may be something of truth in those words of Micer Codro , and the evil genius of Vasco Nunez may yet prove a woman . 
he exclaimed , after a brief interval , `` come hither ! 
-- he stooped and pressed his lips upon her forehead , -- `` I trust we shall escape both the prison and the death . 
Her eyes brightened up as she threw herself into his arms , exclaiming -- `` I will love my lord for ever and ever . '' 
Theveterans of Vasco Nunez , `` the old soldiers of Darien , hardened , '' in the language of Peter Martyr , `` to abide all sorrows , '' looked on the approach and splendid array of Don Pedrarias with faces which did not conceal their vexation . 
But the frank and confiding nature of Vasco Nunez was ill requited by his successor , who began the conference by a falsehood . 
He assured the conqueror , that he was instructed by the king to treat him with all favour and distinction , to consult him on all measures concerning the colony , and seek from him , in preference to all others , the desired information relative to the surrounding country . 
Even I , the sworn enemy of Vasco Nunez , feel no triumph and no joy at his doom -- still less can I feel indifference . 
And he , who has found but friendship and favour from his captain , speaks without feeling of his wrong , when his sword should be among the first to leap from the scabbard to avenge it . '' 
Thou canst prove that Vasco Nunez instigated the colony against the Bachelor Enciso and the Señor Diego . 
`` Ay , ay -- thou art keen as a notary , Pedro ; but thou shouldst know that these old soldiers of Darien are the last persons in the world to say what shall harm Vasco Nunez . '' 
It would lose thee no esteem among the old soldiers of Darien to speak what thou knowest of Vasco Nunez -- it would take from me , whom they follow , all respect and consideration . '' 
If they have thus resolved to destroy Vasco Nunez , it will be easy for them to find many in Darien to swear falsely against him . 
But , though he never perish , I will not join with these . '' 
I have eaten of the bread of Vasco Nunez , and have hearkened to his confidence . 
Vasco Nunez can serve you no longer -- you have nothing now to hope at his hands . 
ButVasco Nunez was not altogether deserted by his friends , in the gloom of his evil and overshadowing fortunes . 
His eloquent yet unvarnished narrative of the great deeds of Vasco Nunez , his perspicuous array of the noble virtues of his mind , and the great courage and hardy energies of his body , awakened the admiration of the bishop , and aroused all his sympathies . 
He took the matter in hand , went instantly to the petty tyrant , who had already shown so much hypocrisy and injustice in his brief career of authority , and demanded , as a right , those indulgences for the prisoner , which could not be withheld , without wanton cruelty , from even the convicted felon , and which placed on the same level with him , one who , according to his showing , was not only not likely to be unconvicted , but actually deserving the highest rewards in the gift of the Spanish monarch . 
He made that one , however , which was demanded of him , and granted permission that the friends of Vasco Nunez should visit him in his confinement . 
He carried his friendly offices still farther , and having considerable influence over the Licentiate Espinosa , to whom , as alcalde mayor , the investigation was confided , the examination of the case was commenced in a manner most auspicious to the hero . 
They acquitted Vasco Nunez of all the crimes which had been laid to his charge . 
The clamour of the nation , once possessed of the facts which may be given-them by the licentiate , or myself , or an hundred others , will compel the king , if he would have it otherwise himself , to restore Vasco Nunez to the government of Darien , and give him higher honours than you could possibly deprive him of . 
Doña Isabel , who had received from the Bishop a true version of the deeds of Vasco Nunez , and had listened with more faith and charity than her lord , felt nothing but respect and sympathy for the discoverer . 
Meanwhile , however , secure in what had already been obtained from fortune , the soul of Vasco Nunez remained serene , and though sad , it may be , at the denial and restraint put upon its energies , it was at least as untroubled by fear as it was utterly unconscious of any guilt , such as had been charged against him . 
When the result of the trial , and the resolution of Pedrarias , by which he sought to baffle its acquittal , were made known to him by the astrologer , the communication scarcely awakened any emotion -- none at least , was visible . 
he answered with a smile -- then , with features instantly changing to an expression of intense gravity , he concluded by asking for Careta . 
Thou knowest , Micer Codro , that she hath none to help her in Darien but Vasco Nunez ; and the poor Indian would find but small kindness from Pedrarias and the brawling cavaliers about him , if they but knew how close is the tie which I hold with her . '' 
But , at that moment , the only thought of Vasco Nunez , by a strange and mysterious will of his nature , that rose in utter defiance of the dictates of his reason , was of Teresa Davila . 
`` Ay , Vasco -- it is written -- I know that thou wilt die many days before me . '' 
The plan of the Indian girl , expressed in her imperfect Spanish , at once touched the heart and amused the mind of Vasco Nunez . 
The hopefulness of heart which the astrologer had encouraged in the simple Indian , seemed to make her so happy , that Vasco Nunez felt that it would be cruel to impair the impressions which she had received on this subject : and his words were uttered to strengthen her hope , though , wearied by his own mental excitements , and that restraint which is the most humiliating of all influences to the restless and impetuous nature , and made somewhat gloomy by the predictions of the astrologer to himself , he had little faith in any of his own promises . 
Vasco Nunez was not insensible to her caresses ; but though he looked fondly in her face , and spoke in a tone of mournful sweetness to her ears , yet his eyes watched , with an inevitable constancy , the iron bars of the windows ; and his ears detected , for ever more mingling with the accents of her love , the heavy tread of the soldier in the court of the prison , and the occasional ring of his arquebus on the rocky earth . 
Oneof the predictions of Vasco Nunez was soon verified . 
The colony soon found occasion for his services . 
In the absence of his genius its fortunes sunk , its enterprises miscarried , and a pestilence which fell upon the people during the oppressive heats of summer , contributed to fill the measure of its misfortunes to the brim . 
The malaria of Darien prevailing in the heat of summer , carried off , in the brief period of one month , no less than seven hundred of the gay and youthful cavaliers that composed his army -- many of them fled to Cuba and Spain ; and Pedrarias , -- himself sick , and thus deserted -- was reduced to the humbling necessity -- after vainly attempting to lead his troops in his own person in several expeditions which proved fruitless -- to release Vasco Nunez from his chains , and yield those enterprises to his hands which had suffered nothing but miscarriage in the hands of others . 
His generals had traversed the country explored by Vasco Nunez , and in the wantonness of their power had practised a thousand excesses , which soon converted all the friendships which he had formed with the natives into bitterness and hate . 
Among these victims were many of those Indians whom the humane policy of Vasco Nunez had altered from savage foes into faithful allies ; but who now , goaded to desperation , rose in unanimous warfare on every hand , and baffled at every point the ruthless invaders whom they did not always fail to destroy . 
The rich mines of Dobayda -- the golden temple of that Indian province -- had long been a subject of fruitful anticipation among the Spanish cavaliers , and the discovery had been once attempted by Vasco Nunez himself without success . 
Vasco Nunez only smiled when his friends strove to dissuade him from the command , which , it was well understood , had been proposed to him by Pedrarias rather in hate than affection . 
The jealous Pedrarias , when he discovered the readiness of Vasco Nunez to undertake the enterprise , associated with him in the command one Louis Carillo , a creature of his own , who , in addition to his utter want of character , laboured under an equal deficiency of ability , and served only , as doubtless Pedrarias calculated , to embarrass the purposes , and finally defeat the exterprise of his associate . 
When this after-resolve of the governor was made known to Vasco Nunez , his ardour was chilled , and but that he had passed his word , he would freely have withdrawn from the command . 
His honour , however , was now concerned in the successful prosecution of the enterprise , and he resolved to go through it with his accustomed cheerfulness and spirit . 
But before departing he had a conference with the youth Pedro of whom he had seen but little while in his dungeon . 
Micer Codro , '' replied the conqueror , `` thou speakest as if Vasco Nunez had his choice of warriors among a thousand . 
The youth is young indeed , but he is thoughtful -- he is feeble but he is bold ; and far better is it to trust the thoughtful boy than the thoughtless graybeard , and more sure is the strength of the heart than the strength of the body . 
The small dog pulls down to the earth the heavy bull , and the little bird with a fearless heart speeds with an arrow 's swiftness upon the big but trembling fowl that wanders near the dwelling of his young . 
Even were it otherwise , as I have told thee , there had been none but thou -- '' `` I had gone for thee , son Vasco . '' 
The enterprise of Vasco Nunez failed ; he reached the province and river of Dobayda , but was not destined to win the golden temple . 
His small fleet of canoes was surrounded by thousands of savages in vessels of the same description , which they were taught to manage with more skill than the Spaniards . 
Vasco Nunez , himself wounded , succeeded in beating off the enemy and retreated safely to Darien , amidst horrors and privations , which fully confirmed the worst features of the dreadful tales which they had heard of this fearful region . 
Vasco Nunez himself was silent amid all these discussions . 
His spirit seemed depressed and cowed in the consciousness of evil fortune , and , with hourly increasing reverence , he nightly looked with Micer Codro at the aspect of that evil planet which still hung with threatening augury within the horizon of his own . 
The expectation of the vessel from Cuba , and the hope of better tidings from Spain , alone cheered him up against the oppressions of his tyrant on earth , and those predictions of evil which seemed written against his fortune on the dim curtains of heaven . 
There was a time when , the summit of his greatness being won , it seemed to him that death would have been a small evil ; and such was his conviction when he stood upon the peak of Darien and watched the living waters flowing at his feet below . 
His thought now , like that of all great minds , was , not of what he had done , but of what yet remained for him to do . 
Weary with watching , sad with many and conflicting thoughts , he turned from the astrologer -- he turned from the few soldiers , the scarred veterans whose eyes declared the sympathy which it had been unwise to speak in more emphatic language -- he turned from all men , and from all the schemes of men , as fruitful only in affliction , and yielding no other increase than strife ; and sought his only consolation in the unobtrusive but watchful devotion of the Indian damsel . 
The care which wasted him was also busy at her heart ; and his departure from her presence , and his return , brought her equal anxiety . 
She knew enough of his position in the colony , to be now aware of his dangers , and when her knowledge failed her , her apprehension underwent due increase . 
`` Oh , my lord , '' she was always ready to exclaim when she saw him return -- and while her fingers played with his long , brown hair , which intense thought and many cares were prematurely sprinkling with gray -- `` shall we not go to Coyba , and hide among the hills ? 
If harm comes to Vasco Nunez -- if death -- '' `` No , no , no ! 
Thefailure of Vasco Nunez in his late enterprise , furnished an excuse for his non-employment , of which Pedrarias readily availed himself ; and , though freed , the unfortunate hero laboured under the obloquy and discredit which naturally enough followed the hostility of the ruling powers . 
To yield to the solicitations of Quevedo in behalf of Vasco Nunez , was , in fact , only to admit in brief the tyranny and gross injustice of his conduct ; and for this the pride of a small mind was unprepared . 
In a letter from the king , he was instructed to consult Vasco Nunez on all public affairs . 
The bishop at once demanded that Vasco Nunez should be invested with the dignities and power which the king had conferred ; but this proposition was resisted by the alcalde mayor , who had been brought over to the party of Pedrarias , and who , making a pretext of the late inquisition into the conduct of Vasco Nunez , which still remained unfinished , strenuously insisted that the offices ought in no wise to be given to one , whose public conduct was still in some sort the subject of official investigation -- not , at least , until the king had been apprised of the nature and results of the inquest . 
Pedrarias well knew that if the jurisdiction , implied by the titles given to Vasco Nunez , were once vested in him , it would leave his own government of Darien but a very insignificant command . 
He adopted a middle and more cunning policy . 
`` Let Vasco Nunez give security that he will not attempt to enter upon his jurisdiction , until the king hath knowledge of the inquest upon him , in the business of the Señor Diego de Nicuesa and of the Bachelor Enciso , and the titles shall be conferred upon him forthwith . 
`` Be it so , '' replied the bishop , with a scorn he was unable entirely to conceal . 
The old soldiers of Vasco Nunez crowded around him with applauses and shouts of exultation , which galled the angry Pedrarias to madness . 
He looked with a jealousy , the parent of innumerable fears , to the high place which his rival maintained in public opinion , and began to apprehend the presence of an enemy , who was destined to usurp his power and overthrow himself . 
`` The adelantado is already busy , Don Pedrarias , '' said the ambitious soldier , who well knew that his own elevation was retarded only by that of one so superior as Vasco Nunez -- `` Look forth , señor , upon the harbour , -- thou wilt there see as handsome a brigantine as ever swam in salt water . 
`` To the dwelling of Vasco Nunez with an hundred picked men , and arrest me that black-hearted traitor . 
Hearing her voice , Vasco Nunez who sat within the chamber , behind a curtain which half covered the doorway , and who saw nothing of the soldiers though he heard their tread , started to his feet , and caught up the sword which lay on a table before him . 
`` Now , '' said he , in hurried soliloquy as the door closed upon the chief -- `` there is no farther charge upon me to serve Vasco Nunez . 
The business I have taken for him in hand is done , and he hath declared himself well content with my performance . 
Surely , I have toiled for him sharply , and as one who loved him . 
I forbore to slay him when he was striding on with the pace of a giant to the wondrous triumph which he achieved ; a secret blow at that moment , had been base like the shaft of the peasant who lies in the cleft of the rock and strikes the mighty bird when he is towering over the mountain . 
Pedrarias knows not that thou hast been the agent of this new treason of Vasco Nunez . 
He knows not that it was thou who gottest ship and soldiers for him in Cuba , that he might overthrow lawful sway in Darien , and rise in rebellion against his sovereign . 
But all had not shrunk from the side of Vasco Nunez , and every voice was not lifted against him in the day of his evil fortune . 
While the youth sped along the thoroughfare , and whenever the voices of a group reached his ears , he heard nothing but murmurs against the new act of tyranny which the governor had committed . 
One of these , whose interests he well knew to depend very much upon the release , as well as the favour of Vasco Nunez -- one Hernando de Arguello -- he sought out with arguments equally convincing and provocative . 
Much of this was invested in certain agricultural schemes of Vasco Nunez , and in the erection of a new town called Acla , which the latter had founded at a port to the west of Darien , which , in compliment to the Indian damsel , had been called Careta . 
To alarm him on the subject of these interests , the youth well knew , was the most easy way to bring Arguello into the field . 
`` Let Pedrarias convict Vasco Nunez of treason , and all his property is confiscated . 
Your interests are so hidden among his , that they go together in loss , equally as in good fortune . 
Señor Hernando , -- your hope is to save the adelantado from the jaws of the denouncing governor -- in his safety you are safe , and I tell thee if Vasco Nunez dies as a traitor to King Ferdinand , then , the bare suspicion that thou hast a claim upon property held as his , will go far to bringing you guilty of the same crime , and will ensure you the benefits of a like sharp judgment . '' 
`` But to take command of these soldiers for his rescue is treason . '' 
If , indeed , he had been less loyal , Pedrarias had not suspected him of treason . 
Keep thou from his sight , señor , until thou tak ` st the lead of thy men , then if he approach thee , as it will be but seemly in him to do , with a traitorous speech of friendship to thee and to Vasco Nunez , give him thy dagger in his mouth for an answer , and let a short cord lift him to a high tree . 
Thefirst intelligence of the second arrest of Vasco Nunez brought the astrologer to the dwelling of the bishop of Darien , and the latter , immediately after , to the presence of Pedrarias . 
What evidence wouldst thou need for the conviction of Vasco Nunez ? 
Thou darest not sit in judgment on Vasco Nunez , hating him as thou dost . '' 
If I loathe this Vasco Nunez , it is because of his deeds . '' 
`` I fear me , because of his good and great deeds , Don Pedrarias , since I have seen no other of his performance , and thou tell ` st me of none . 
Some evil counsellor , who hates Vasco Nunez , and thou no less , is busy to use thee for his destruction . 
Have I not told thee that he purposes to seize upon the government ? '' 
`` Nay , I see no treason of Vasco Nunez in this -- I see nothing but the indignation of his soldiers , driven to fury at the injustice and the cruelty with which thou hast treated a popular favourite . 
`` There is but one remedy for all this -- set Vasco Nunez free . '' 
-- His head or mine . '' 
This Micer Codro , whom I hold to be a good though visionary man , hath advised me of certain facts in the history of Vasco Nunez that fully account to my mind for his singular forbearance towards thee . '' 
`` Know you that he hath once sought your daughter Teresa in marriage ? '' 
Vasco Nunez is a being too noble to regard woman with other than noble homage ; and he who hath ever loved , as it is assured me this man hath loved thy daughter , will gladly forget the rejection and the scorn in the compliance which at last yields the prize that he hath sought . 
He assured them that he went to set Vasco Nunez free , having the full consent , nor merely the consent , but the approving favour and cordial kindness , of the governor , in his behalf . 
The insurgents received this news with rejoicing , but when the bishop called upon them to disband , the youth Pedro whispered in the ears of Arguello , who was their leader , not to comply until Vasco Nunez were released and present to command them ; and , resolutely maintaining their ground and weapons , they patiently resolved to await the result of the bishop 's visit to the prison . 
He had been truly advised by the astrologer , of the nature of the intercourse between Vasco Nunez and Teresa Davila , and of the intense admiration with which that cavalier regarded her . 
Her rejection of his suit was not shown to the bishop , without being accompanied by a farther showing which fully revealed to him her cold , capricious heartlessness of character , and her utter deficiency , in all those respects , in which a man , devoted and earnest like Vasco Nunez , would chiefly desire that his wife might be complete . 
The immorality of coupling together two such persons , did not , however , appear so objectionable to the bishop , when the policy of the proceeding , in a public point of view , was the subject of consideration ; and the chief difficulty to his mind , in overcoming the objections of Vasco Nunez , seemed only such as might arise from the mortified pride and wounded vanity of the latter , who might not be so ready to forget his previous rejection . 
To smooth his difficulties in this respect , the good bishop took Micer Codro with him to the prison , though , as they went , the venerable astrologer listened to the scheme of his companion with a heartfelt sorrow which his lips did not fail to declare . 
Their dialogue , as it unfolded the arguments for and against the measure -- regarded only as a question of policy on all hands -- may be briefly stated as follows : `` This woman hath no affection for Vasco Nunez , '' said the astrologer -- `` she hath scorned his prayer in the hour of his adversity , and is utterly unworthy to be his wife . 
She would betray him to his enemies , and be hostile to his friends . 
If Teresa refused Vasco Nunez when he was in adversity in Española , lo ! 
you , she accepts him now when he is in no less adversity in Darien . '' 
It is Don Pedrarias that accepts Vasco Nunez , not his daughter . '' 
A vessel suddenly , and at the very moment of the outbreak here , comes into port filled with soldiers , acknowledging no authority but that of Vasco Nunez , lying off from shore as fearing or intending harm , and , as if counselled by himself , her troops secretly land , join their arms to the insurgents , and even now clamour in open rebellion around the dwelling of the lawful governor . 
His hate and suspicions have now some reasonable grounds , and were he now to send Vasco Nunez to the block , these events would be ample justification for the deed before the royal council . 
The troops of Vasco Nunez may do harm to those of Pedrarias , but they can not serve their chief . 
Long and arduous was the conflict in the mind of Vasco Nunez , ere he could be brought to yield consent to a measure for which , at the same time -- strange weakness of the strong man 's heart , -- every pulse and feeling in his bosom yearned . 
Themarriage-contract between Pedrarias on the one hand , for his daughter , and Vasco Nunez on the other , was formally drawn up and signed in presence of the good bishop , who having , as he flattered himself , completed the work of peace between the parties , set sail shortly afterwards for Spain , leaving the colony in a condition of quiet and hopeful promise , which it had not known for many months before . 
`` Behold now , '' says the worthy chronicler , Fray Agapida , `` behold Vasco Nunez once more in the high career of prosperity . 
His most implacable enemy had suddenly been converted into his dearest friend ; for Pedrarias , now that he looked upon him as his son-in-law , loaded him with favours . '' 
The favours of highest satisfaction to such a mind as Vasco Nunez were , however , those only which gave it employment . 
To carry on the conquest which he had begun , to explore those waters from which he had taken off the seal of ages , and , with that insatiate appetite which distinguishes the soul of genius , to leave nothing to the unknown which man might know , were now the grand desires of his heart : and in their prosecution we find him -- the moment that he was freed from the tyranny of Pedrarias , and secure , as his future son-in-law , in his confidence -- preparing to build , at vast pains and labour , an armament for the navigation of the great southern sea . 
Two hundred men , under his sole command , enabled him in a short time to do that which Pedrarias , with a thousand , had failed to do in the weary space of protracted months ; and the labours of Vasco Nunez were carried on with a degree of industry that derived no little impulse from another cause than that of his ambition . 
There was a gnawing and reproachful thought in his mind which he vainly strove to banish . 
The consciousness of wrong haunted him and kept him sleepless . 
Every glance at the Indian maiden , whose humble but devoted affections he had betrayed , -- however necessary to his safety seemed the wrong -- stung him with a sorrow that drove him to labour as to relief , and prompted him even in search of danger , that he might escape the worse goadings of his conscience . 
She knew nothing of the terms by which Vasco Nunez had been released -- she did not dream that she herself was the sacrifice -- but she knew that he was no longer in danger from a power which had harassed him from the first with every sort of oppression ; and in this conviction she was satisfied . 
With the privilege of one who loves entirely , she chided his downcast looks , his reluctant eyes , and the lethargy which stifled the free tones of his voice and the graceful life which had once distinguished every movement of his limbs . 
But the mind of the speaker was evidently wandering as he made this answer ; and the coldness of the tones , and the lack of all expression in his eyes , as he looked upon her , conveyed far more fear to her heart than his language brought consolation . 
He noted this effect , and making a commanding effort , thus endeavoured to soothe her -- `` Have I not many toils and many cares , Careta ? 
My lord , there is one thing -- '' She paused , and looked up , with a sad earnestness , into his face . 
`` Speak , Careta , '' he replied encouragingly . 
But there was nothing brutal in the character of Vasco Nunez . 
He saw that his manner gave her pain , and in another instant , recollecting himself , his tones were changed to those of tenderness , as he spoke again . 
The smile upon his lips , but , more than all , the tear within his eye , which was clearly visible to her , unsealed the fountains of delighted joy within her heart ; she rushed forward with a scream and threw herself into his extended arms . 
He pressed her warmly for an instant to his bosom , then released her , and rapidly hurried from her presence . 
`` Ay , '' he muttered to himself as he moved from the dwelling where this scene had taken place -- `` ay , I have indeed bought my freedom from chains , and my security of life , at a grievous price to thee , Careta . 
His secretary stood beside him . 
`` Despatches from Santa Maria , my lord , '' he said , handing him letters . 
A rush of weakness went through the heart of Vasco Nunez at the name , and the papers were shaken in his hands by the trembling fingers which grasped them nervously . 
Teresa was then once more near him -- that scornful beauty ! 
He should once more behold her : -- nay , more , she was pledged to him as his . 
From the moment when Vasco Nunez had accepted his life and freedom at the hands of Pedrarias , he had sunk rapidly and greatly in the estimation of the youth . 
Vasco Nunez , thy weakness hath strengthened me . 
Such were the reflections rapidly passing through the mind of the youth as he stood before the adelantado . 
That very day the latter set off for Darien , leaving the Indian damsel behind him at Acla . 
Thereception of Vasco Nunez by the Lady Teresa , was such as might gratify any lover . 
The words of the astrologer -- one of those vexing speeches which he had been so much accustomed to make in San Domingo , when Vasco Nunez was first a hopeful lover -- seemed to ring in his ears with solemn emphasis , even while he watched the maiden . 
was the inward question of Vasco Nunez . 
demanded Vasco Nunez in trembling but earnest accents , approaching her while he spoke . 
Vasco Nunez was on his knees beside her in another instant . 
`` Teresa , '' he said , `` I believe thy silence much more than I had ever believed thy language . 
And she sank in his ready arms , as these words , tremulously spoken , fell from her tongue , and the kiss which his glowing lips caught that moment from hers -- the seal , as it were , of the precious bond between them -- seemed no less sweet to his heart , than if it had been taken from the lip of truth and innocence , in the world 's morning , and in the happy garden devoted to its yet unsinning parents . 
Forthree days Vasco Nunez gave himself up to all the delights inspired by his new situation at Darien , and every hour of increased converse afforded him new promises of happiness in the contemplated connexion with Teresa . 
Many of them perished on their way , but the genius and perseverance of Vasco Nunez triumphed in the end , and after a thousand delays and disasters , which tasked all his patience to endure , and all his genius to remedy , he had the proud satisfaction at last of launching upon the great ocean he had discovered . 
Piece by piece had he carried the materials for his ships over a wild ridge of mountains , occupied by a savage people that hung in hostility around his footsteps , and amidst dangers , fatigues and privations , that might well have daunted a less ardent spirit . 
The exultation of his heart may be fancied by the reader , when he found himself for the first time upon the bosom of that wondrous ocean , and in the very pathway , perhaps , to no less wondrous lands that lay along its borders . 
`` None but Spaniards , '' says Herrera , with a pardonable boast , `` could ever have conceived or persisted in such an undertaking ; and no commander in the new world but Vasco Nunez could have conducted it to a successful issue . '' 
Of the cruise of Vasco Nunez in the southern sea , of his visit to the Pearl Islands , and his conquests over hitherto unknown as well as known Indian tribes that rose in hostility upon his path , it is not within our province to speak . 
It may be stated , however , that but for a change of wind , Vasco Nunez would in his very first voyage upon the Pacific have discovered Peru , -- an adventure reserved for one of his followers -- the least worthy , though not the least brave , of any among them . 
Providence , however , did not seem willing in his case , any more than in that of Columbus , to permit him , who led the way to conquest , to perfect its details . 
The ice once broken , the petty voyager may make his way in safety -- it is glory enough for Columbus and Vasco Nunez , that they possessed the eye to see and the wing to reach , in advance of all , the realms which they respectively gave -- not to Castile and Leon , merely , as the epitaph of the former idly expresses it -- but to the world . 
While Vasco Nunez was thus triumphantly riding the billows of the southern sea , the youth , Pedro , watched all his movements with a hostility duly sharpened by each day 's additional experience . 
An abstract passion for justice , stimulated into feverish restlessness by the presence of a continually goading enthusiasm , rendered him fanatical in his angry mood ; and the weaknesses of heart by which Vasco Nunez had resolved upon an act which would sacrifice the Indian girl who had confided in him so entirely , provoked the indignation of the youth anew . 
He saw nothing now but the infidelity and baseness of the man whom he was sworn to slay for a crime which personally wronged him . 
`` I know that I must perish , '' he would mutter to himself ; `` his arm would crush me at a blow ; and even my stroke , however well aimed , his unarmed hand could parry if he beheld it . 
I must do it while he sleeps . 
Yet , would it were that I could encounter with him as the strong man loves to encounter with his fellow . 
-- what could it hope against the muscle and sinew of Vasco Nunez ? '' 
He stooped , and without lifting , sat down beside it , and leaning forward with his elbow upon the long grass , he looked forth upon the broad ocean purpled by the setting sun , and dotted in the far distance by the white sails of one of the brigantines in which Vasco Nunez was then coasting . 
They were then upon the lovely shores of Isla Rica , in which the adelantado had fixed his temporary abode . 
A deep blue sky , almost as transparent as the waves which reflected its every aspect , relieved , not impaired , by a few floating islands of white fleece , hung above him ; soft , bright , and beautiful enough to declare the heavens behind , which it yet curtained from his gaze . 
The scene impressed itself upon the spectator , but did not alter his mood . 
`` Even now , '' said he , gazing upon the distant brigantine as if he could behold upon her deck the person of whom he spake -- `` even now he is looking forth upon these waters , without a thought that they will change . 
He beholds them soft , almost smiling -- scarcely less beautiful than the folding skies above -- to him more beautiful , as they promise to carry him forward to conquests greater than any he has yet achieved . 
His fortune , too , has at length put on an aspect of peace and promise . 
His bitterest enemy has become his best friend -- the woman who had scorned , smiles upon him . 
Grown confident of fortune he has now no fears , and he would as soon -- nay , sooner -- look for the hurricane in yonder thin speck of fleece , as look for an enemy in me . 
He would laugh -- ha ! 
-- he would laugh , were he to be warned against my dagger . 
He would stretch forth his arm , and smile as he surveyed it , and dismiss all fear of mine . 
Let him not be too sure of his strength and of my weakness . 
This night '' -- he resumed the dagger as he spoke -- `` this night will I seek him where he sleeps . 
He hath no guard , and the Indian girl only sleeps beside him . 
That day Vasco Nunez had made many discoveries , which filled his heart with joy ; but it needed not new discoveries to produce this sensation in his bosom , now that he found himself in possession of the desired power , and in the path of his desired conquests . 
you , '' he said to Micer Codro , as in the mild breath of that lovely evening they sat together by the sea-shore , and looked upward and around , beholding in sky and ocean no aspects but those of beauty and repose -- `` Lo , you , Micer Codro , if I err not , that evil star of which thou hast spoken to me so oft , still hangs red and ominous within the rim of my good planet . 
Oh , Vasco Nunez , my son , think not that I speak to discourage thee . 
Oh , Vasco Nunez , my son , my son ! 
Dost thou yet live , Vasco Nunez -- do I see thee , do I feel thee yet , my son ? 
Vasco Nunez arose from his recumbent position upon the grass , as his ear caught the sudden and wild accents of the excited astrologer . 
Vasco Nunez lifted him from the ground , and seated him beside him upon the turf . 
His eyes were open , but the expression was wild and vacant ; the mouth was wide , almost spasmodically parted ; and the stiffness of all his limbs was such as to induce an apprehension in the mind of his companion that they had already become fixed in the unrelaxing grasp of death . 
The eye of Vasco Nunez instinctively followed the direction . 
At that moment , a cloud , which he had no where seen before in the heavens , passed over the rival stars -- the good and the evil aspect alike -- and completely shrouded them from his gaze . 
The hand of the astrologer dropped almost lifelessly beside him ; and the strong man and fearless warrior , however greatly his experience had moved him to question the certainty of the astrologer 's prediction , was yet moved with a feeling of reverential awe , which he vainly strove to dispel . 
`` I can not mistake these signs , Vasco Nunez . 
But my soul is heavy in thy behalf , Vasco . 
`` True , my father , '' replied Vasco Nunez , `` it is Pedro -- thou shouldst know -- the secretary . '' 
A fear touched the mind of Vasco Nunez that the thoughts of the old man wandered , and saying nothing to provoke farther excitement , he assisted him to the shady palm , under which his sylvan couch had been prepared . 
demanded Vasco Nunez , when they had left Micer Codro to his repose . 
exclaimed the youth , as he proceeded on his way to the brigantines where Compañon commanded -- `` Thine will be shorter than thou thinkest . 
Yet , is it not strange that this old man , Micer Codro , should hit so rightly upon the danger of Vasco Nunez ? 
True , as he would say , never seemed fortune more favourable to man than his at this hour to him . 
Meanwhile Vasco Nunez proceeded to the pleasant grove which had been assigned to Careta , and where , with a fond but usual impatience , she sleeplessly awaited him . 
All now are friends to Vasco Nunez , here and in Darien . '' 
The little island on which the warriors of Vasco Nunez slept , scarcely felt the motion of those cradling billows by which it was encircled ; and to the half-opened eye of the dreaming cavalier , some more curious stars than the rest , as if deceived by the universal silence on the shore , stooped down from their high places , and swung in air just above the hammock where he slumbered . 
A sensation of fond disquiet , that prompting hope of the future and the doubtful , which is always a discontent with the ambitious nature , prolonged the musing meditations of all ; and , to a certain extent , the vague hopes and expectations of Vasco Nunez , -- the dreams and the fancies , such as grew up naturally in the mind of one who had found so many wonders , and was now professedly in search of more -- were also those even of the meanest soldier under his command . 
Great as Vasco Nunez was in the contemplation of the warlike and adventurous world , he yet lacked that important essence of genuine and enduring greatness , the rigid resolve , in spite of passion , of prejudice , human fear or human hope , in all cases to be just . 
He advanced into the area of the sylvan antechamber , and finally stood at the entrance of that into which it led , and where Vasco Nunez lay . 
He stopped at this spot . 
His grasp of the dagger , had taken hold , along with the handle of the weapon , of a part of the long sleeve of his doublet . 
He cautiously rolled up the sleeve , and it was a subject of satisfactory surprise in his mind that he felt himself so cool and collected . 
His limbs seemed as rigid as if the flesh had been all muscle . 
He stept , and felt as if his nerves had on a sudden been hardened into steel . 
`` This is as it should be , '' he muttered to himself . 
The same resolution attended him as he advanced into the chamber . 
Not a nerve yielded as he stood beside the rude forest couch on which Vasco Nunez and the damsel slept . 
He stood above him , and his arm was uplifted . 
His limbs lay motionless . 
But an ill-directed stroke -- a blow to graze the breast , not reach the heart , would rouse him into instantaneous and dangerous life . 
Vasco Nunez , the smile and the dagger meet above thee -- thou diest ! '' 
`` The enemy of Vasco Nunez . '' 
He broke from her hold , not without some difficulty , and then , as he saw that Vasco Nunez still slept , and unwilling to forego the opportunity in availing himself of which he had been so far baffled , he prepared in the next instant to renew his attempt . 
But the moment of his extrication from the grasp of the damsel found her erect , between him and his sleeping victim , and ready to receive in her own bosom the weapon , if she was no longer able to baffle it . 
It was no small addition to her annoyance that Vasco Nunez ascribed her terrors solely to her fancy . 
He laughed at her fears -- boldly declared the assassin to have been the creation of her dreams -- for -- `` How idle , '' he continued , `` to suppose that such a strife should take place over a soldier 's bosom -- he quick to waken at the smallest alarm , -- and be prolonged , as thou sayest , Careta , for such a space of time . 
But thou forgettest I am in Darien no longer -- that my enemies there are now my friends -- that -- '' The tears filled her eyes , and her accents -- for she interrupted him at this moment -- were tremulous with pain and fear . 
`` I should have thought it but a dream , '' said Vasco Nunez , `` even as thou say ` st , but for the speech which Careta tells me the assassin made her . '' 
He then related the communication touching his projected marriage with Teresa . 
I would it were not so -- I would that she had less feeling for me -- I dare not send her from me ; yet , ere long she must know all -- and then -- '' A smile of bitterness passed over the secretary 's lips as he spoke : `` What need the Adelantado of Darien to heed this matter so greatly ? 
True , fond , and faithful to Vasco Nunez when nearly all other hearts in Darien were false . 
-- even in death be sure I shall not be far distant from thy side , '' replied the youth with a warmth that seemed to confirm the force of his words , the equivocalness of which was unperceived by the speaker . 
Anhour had scarcely passed from the departure of Vasco Nunez on his course for the Pearl Islands -- the brigantine in which he sailed was hardly out of sight -- when the secretary , Pedro , was surprised by the visit of one , the last person he expected , as it was , perhaps , the last person he desired to see . 
He knew that , though deceived , she was virtuous ; and though lovely and possessed of power , she was no less gentle and complaisant than good ; and at a time when his Indian wife was a favourite topic of sneer with the meaner enemies of Vasco Nunez , he was one of the few who never deemed her undeserving of that high distinction . 
Indeed , his own hostility to the adelantado was renewed as he discovered the injustice of the latter to the damsel , -- as he beheld the weakness and deficiency of a mind which could sacrifice such profound devotion and so pure a heart because of its savage origin -- giving a preference to another , simply -- as he believed -- because of her European birth , -- or in compliance with a yet baser argument , for the rescue of a forfeit life . 
She rejected his courtesy , and for a few seconds contemplated his features in silence , but with such a look of deep , serious regret , that his apprehensions for the first time grew quickened on the subject of his last night 's adventure , and without being able entirely to conceal his impatience , he desired to know of her the purpose of her visit . 
He was soon answered . 
Her eyes were riveted upon him with the piercing keenness of fascination , as she replied -- `` Ay , Señor Pedro , it is a great sorrow with me that I do know -- the more so , as the criminal is one whom my lord greatly trusts . 
-- he who hath been so good to me ever -- who -- but it is thy sport , Careta . 
`` But I am not among his enemies , Careta ; and as for this strange humour of thine -- if thine indeed it be -- that I have lifted weapon against him -- some evil person hath possessed thee against the truth -- '' `` No more , Señor Pedro , '' she interrupted him with solemn emphasis ; `` speak no more in denial of thy own shame . 
Without a word she unclasped one of her hands which had been hitherto so closed as to conceal its contents , and revealed to his eyes the fragment of a frill , such as were commonly worn at the sleeve by the gallants of that time and nation . 
His eyes instinctively fell upon the wrist of his right hand , where the other portions of the frill , rent and torn , were at that moment visible . 
Hitherto , the injury which it had sustained in the scuffle had entirely escaped his sight . 
His thoughts had been too busy elsewhere to suffer his eyes to do their ordinary duties ; and though writing with the fragments continually presenting themselves before him , he had not been in the slightest degree conscious that they exhibited any other than their usual appearance . 
This sudden revelation -- the action , look , manner of the damsel , all announced to him that in her mind she had arrived at the fullest conviction of his criminality -- and the sudden paleness of his cheeks , and the sinking of his eyes beneath her glance , against which he vainly strove , and of which he felt painfully conscious , were enough , he well knew , to confirm her suspicions , by whatever doubts they may have been qualified before . 
He stammered out a farther denial of the accusation , though admitting what he could not deny , that the frill was his . 
But his words failed utterly to affect her convictions . 
She answered him calmly and without hesitation . 
The enormity of his offence , indeed , seemed to deprive her , in the consciousness of her imperfect modes of speech , of all power of reproach . 
Hear me , Careta , '' -- seeing she was about to interrupt him with a very natural expression of indignation -- `` Vasco Nunez has deceived you . 
He told you that you were his wife according to the Christian law , but the Christians regard you not as his wife , nor does he himself give you such a title , nor have you such a claim . 
Ere long he will tell you otherwise -- ere long he will give that title to another . 
Know from me -- I spoke the words in your ear last night , but you would not hear and would not believe -- he is sworn to wed Teresa Davila , the daughter of Pedrarias , and his late visit to Darien , when he left thee behind him at Acla , was to meet with and to see her . '' 
If this should be true that I tell thee -- say that I prove it to be true -- that Vasco Nunez is to wed with Teresa Davila -- '' `` Thou canst not prove it -- it is not true , '' she replied impetuously . 
He saw at a glance that there was no relenting on the part of the Indian damsel ; that no assurance of the faithlessness of Vasco Nunez could produce a like faithlessness in her , even if he could succeed in persuading her to credit his own assurances . 
Her resolution seemed equally certain -- as , indeed , there could be no reasonable hope on his part that it should be otherwise -- that the return of the adelantado from his cruise would be the hour of his own exposure . 
A desperate resolve passed through his mind -- a horrible idea -- by which he hoped to escape this danger , and remain at the same time in the neighbourhood of his victim . 
`` Shall I now , '' he thought to himself , `` be driven by this woman from the revenge which I have so long meditated -- which is an oath written in heaven , and which the spirit of the injured dead hath been invoked to witness ? 
Driven hence , I lose all present prospect of my vengeance , and the tongue of this woman leaves me to the hostile and destructive rage of Vasco Nunez , who will inevitably pursue me to the death . 
The last word was spoken aloud , and he advanced as he spoke towards the damsel . 
Without suffering his eye to lose its immediate hold upon hers , his hand , unobserved by her , possessed itself of a dagger , which hung with other armour against a tree , around which his sylvan tent had been erected . 
Grasped firmly in his left hand , the blade was turned upward and concealed behind his arm . 
He approached her with slow steps , and his ear as he moved was keenly alive to the stillness of the scene without . 
As if unassured , he looked once more to the entrance of the tent . 
The hundred details of a cruel scheme of murder and concealment went through his mind in regular order in the short minute 's space in which his eyes were thus employed . 
`` A single sudden blow , '' thus ran the terrible musings of his mind , `` and she is silenced for ever . 
he exclaimed returning ; `` thou art resolved then to hear nothing -- neither thy lord 's crime against me , nor that which he has meditated against thyself . 
Of what avail will it be to thee that thou shouldst tell this to Vasco Nunez , and show that thou lovest him in spite of all his injustice , when , but a little month shall pass , and thou wilt be doomed to behold another in his arms ? '' 
I had sworn against the life of Vasco Nunez -- thou wert in possession of my secret , and when , in thy blind devotion to that man , thou refusedst all ear to my accusation against him , my first thought was to silence thee , that I might still be nigh to work out my vow of vengeance . 
I will leave Isla Rica , even as thou counsellest -- but the hour will come , Careta , when in thy secret thought thou wilt say , the blow which was aimed by my hand at the breast of Vasco Nunez , and which thy woman hand hath baffled , had been a blow no less sweet to thy heart than its success had been to mine . '' 
`` Thou art worthy of a better faith , Careta , '' replied the secretary , gazing on her with pity and admiration , `` and I would that my prayer might find thee a better fortune . 
She made him no answer , but her hands were clasped , and her eyes lifted up to heaven , with an expression in which the serene , relying , hope shone out with a tenderness of aspect that looked most like love , and yet was religion . 
In another hour and the brigantine left Isla Rica for the river Balsas , bearing in her the secretary of Vasco Nunez , no less revengeful in his mood than before , and , perhaps even more resolved upon its execution , from that defeat of his design which had ended in his exile from the victim . 
Thesecretary of Vasco Nunez sped with all despatch from Balsas to Acla , and from Acla to Darien . 
It was fortunate for his purposes that just at this time the usual objects of the exploring expedition required that a large brigade of soldiers and labourers , still employed in the transportation of materials and supplies across the mountains , should set out on their return journey . 
A ready sophistry reconciled him now to agents and artifices which he had scorned before ; and his first visit in Darien was to one whom he had sufficient reason to know was the bitter enemy of Vasco Nunez . 
But this shall not be lacking , as I tell thee ; and when I assure Don Pedrarias , moreover , that it is scarcely the purpose of Vasco Nunez to become his son-in-law -- that he still clings to the Indian woman -- '' `` Couldst thou show this , perhaps ? '' 
Pedrarias hath no love for Vasco Nunez . 
How many enemies hath Vasco Nunez made here in Darien , all of whom rage against him . 
The Bachelor Corral hates him with an unforgiving hate , which would destroy wherever he might dare . 
Thou , thyself , hast found a ready confidence , in what thou sayst , in Don Pedrarias ; and methinks there is a natural bias against the adelantado in his mind , because of the rivalship and better fortunes of Vasco Nunez , which will make it easy to persuade him of the truth of my declaration . 
Nay , more , I have papers of the adelantado , under his own hand , which will greatly help to establish it against him . '' 
Yet , '' -- a brief pause followed at this point , which seemed sufficiently appropriate after the utterance of a sentiment so truly at variance with the real principles of the speaker , and one which brought something more than a smile upon the lips of his companion -- `` yet , Pedro , '' he continued , `` though in truth , it will nothing help this business forward , yet would I know wherefore now thou shouldst be the enemy of Vasco Nunez , that , but a little space ago , was his most trusted and serviceable friend . 
These changes happen not without a cause ; and yet , according to thy own showing , to the moment when thou leftst Isla Rica thou wert still his approved secretary . '' 
`` I have served the Señor Vasco , and served him faithfully , '' replied the youth gravely , `` but I never was his friend . 
From the first I have been his sworn but secret foe . 
Nay , more , even when I served him -- when I declined to serve thee against him -- I was sworn to slay him . 
He fears the successes of Vasco Nunez , and will not be slow to hate where he fears . 
I will move him to these fears by other facts of which I have knowledge ; and there is more to alarm him in this matter touching Vasco Nunez and his daughter , than thou dreamest of . 
This damsel , when she dwelt in Española denied Vasco Nunez , in his prayer for love ; there is nothing strange , but much that is reasonable in the thought that he means not to wed her now -- that he will fling back her hand into her father 's face , when he has once laid a clean keel on the waters of the great South Sea . 
As Pizarro anticipated , it was any thing but difficult to awaken in the mind of Pedrarias all his old suspicions of Vasco Nunez , and all the hostility accordingly , which had so persecutingly pursued him before . 
A long interval had followed his last departure from Darien , and he had failed to communicate to the governor his projects and achievements . 
The very despatches which he had prepared to send by the brigantine which bore the secretary to Balsas , were in the possession of the latter , and suppressed for his own purposes from delivery . 
It was shown clearly that Vasco Nunez had not been without some idea of ridding himself of the governor 's control , in the event of his being able to launch his vessel upon the great sea which he had found ; and though , to the unprejudiced and unembittered mind , it would have appeared equally clear upon inquiry , that these memoranda had been made , and these ideas formed , at a period preceding the late compromise between the parties , yet the pertinacity of Pizarro , and the positive asseverations of the secretary , completely blinded the despotic governor to all consideration of reason or justice on this subject . 
He yielded , as had been predicted , to a passion of fury , which only suffered itself to be quieted at last by the conviction that his enemy , as he deemed him , was beyond his power ; and believing , as he did , the representations of the conspirators , his natural fear and inference were , that , being now fairly in possession of the means equally of flight and independence , Vasco Nunez would soon bid him defiance . 
It was not the policy , however , of those who sought the destruction of the latter , to suffer him to rest in this last conviction ; and Pizarro showed many reasons for his assurance that it was the policy of the cavalier to maintain an appearance of good faith with his superior for some little time longer . 
It was at length the conclusion of the parties that Vasco Nunez was a traitor , and should suffer the punishment of one . 
But how to get him into the power of Pedrarias was now the only difficulty . 
To summon Vasco Nunez to Darien , to answer charges against him , would be , it is true , most likely to defeat your object . 
The easier course would be to express no suspicions -- to utter no charges -- but to write to him , as before -- to invite him , not to Darien , but to Acla , whither he well knows you have already resolved to go . 
There are motives enough which would justify your desire to meet with him , if it were only to confer on the subject of the intended expedition ; and the more effectually to disarm his suspicions , should he have them , it were not unwise to counsel your daughter to write him , as if of her own heart , desiring his presence also . 
Meanwhile , care should be taken that such of his known friends as are here in Darien , should be seized and silenced . 
Hernando de Arguello , who hath large interest in the fortunes of Vasco Nunez , should be at once arrested on any plea -- but kept from communication with Acla and the Balsas . 
There are others , his officers , one of whom is here and two at Acla , whom it were no less important to arrest with all despatch . 
I know that these men counsel Vasco Nunez of all the doings in his absence at Santa Maria and Acla . 
Arguello was arrested that very night , and Gaspar Nino , a man known to be faithful to Pedrarias , yet one who was equally well known for his mild and just deportment , was chosen , with three others , equally inoffensive , to bear the deceitful despatches to Vasco Nunez , and to accompany him to Acla . 
They were more sanguine , from a better knowledge of the frank , confiding simplicity of Vasco Nunez , of the success of the expedition ; and Pizarro , exulting in his hopes , was in no wise sparing of the applauses which he now bestowed upon his heretofore despised coadjutor by whom the plan had been devised . 
`` That was a shrewd notion of thine , Pedro , '' he said , `` to get the letter from Teresa Davila , for of a certainty Vasco Nunez loves that woman ; though she hath , if I may believe the eyes of woman , but little thought of him . 
That letter will bring him , be sure , even were all other artifices to fail . 
He will put his head into her lap , and she will call the enemy , even as the worthy Jeronomite father tells us was the case with the strong man of old made captive by the heathen Philistines . 
Do thus , Teresa , and let it suffice thee , that all things -- thy father 's government -- his fortune -- nay , perhaps his life -- all rest on the presence of Vasco Nunez here in Darien . 
His anxiety on the subject , and the utter absence of any good reason why he should not summon Vasco Nunez himself , if he desired his presence at Darien , and if he meditated nothing hostile against him , or had no suspicions of his fidelity -- furnished strong conjectures to her mind , which led her very nearly to the truth . 
Had she really loved Vasco Nunez , she would have obeyed without reflection , since to have the loved one near her , would have led her instantly to that obedience to a father 's commands , in the recognition of which the desires of her own heart were so immediately consulted . 
Thinking it not improbable , in spite of her refusal of Vasco Nunez , that she might now have some attachment for him , as , indeed , nothing would have seemed more natural than that she should entertain some such feeling for one , who was at that period the admiration of a whole world , he began to fear that she might not only refuse to second his wishes , but apprise his enemy of the danger that threatened him at Darien . 
His keen , earnest , and anxious glance , when she perceived it , startled and offended her ; and a deep crimson suffusion of her cheeks attested the presence in her mind of another consciousness which the governor could not so well appreciate . 
If she believed the designs of Pedrarias to be hostile to Vasco Nunez , she was absolutely conniving against her betrothed to hearken to the application of her father ; and a sense of propriety , even if she lacked all love for the destined victim , made her feel her present conduct , if she was convinced of his danger , criminal in the last degree . 
Thesecretary of Vasco Nunez received his instructions from Don Pedrarias before he was despatched to the presence of his daughter . 
`` She hath consented -- she will write , '' were his words , `` and write as we would have her , beguiling the lion to the pit , though she knows nothing of our purpose . 
He was curious to note in how much the maiden might suffer loss by the death of Vasco Nunez . 
`` I believe not , '' said he as he went , `` this story of her love for him . 
The old man , Micer Codro , hath more than once , in mine own hearing , counselled Vasco Nunez against too much faith in her words ; and from other tongues than his , I have learned to look upon her as one selfish , cold , jealous , and malignant as Pedrarias . 
It is well I destroyed not the letter of Vasco Nunez . 
Single expressions were seized upon here and there , upon which to build some considerable structures of suspicious conjecture , and when , from her conversation with Pedro , she discovered that Vasco Nunez was in fact , if not in law , utterly independent of her father , and might bid him defiance and prosper , her subtle mind readily understood the fear which had seized upon that of the governor , and in which she did not fail with equal promptness to participate . 
He gave a glowing picture of the passion of adventure -- another name for ambition -- on the part of his master ; of whom he declared himself a devoted admirer ; and with an enthusiasm which seemed to arise from the simple overflowings of his zeal , he cunningly depicted the delights of that sort of life to which he described Vasco Nunez as particularly inclining . 
Pedrarias had already prepared his despatches for Vasco Nunez , and these , no less treacherously designed than the letter of Teresa , were placed in the hands of the messengers , who set forth for Acla by dawn of the day following . 
The arrest of Arguello , the special friend , and , indeed , the partner of Vasco Nunez in several leading enterprises , was enough to alarm the few persons in Darien who were favourable to the adelantado . 
These , however , were too few and too timorous to seek or find any opportunities for apprising him of his danger ; and the emissaries reached Isla Rica and delivered their despatches to the warrior , without his having the slightest suspicion of the true object of their mission . 
His own desires taught Vasco Nunez a sophistry which , under other circumstances , his judgment would have scorned . 
Nor , indeed , did Vasco Nunez succeed in justifying himself by such reasoning . 
While he strove thus to deceive himself , the burning blush upon his cheek , and the sinking of his eyes when he met the glance of the untutored and inferior Indian , were conclusive even to himself of the dishonourable and worthless character of the plea . 
Vasco Nunez could not meet the eyes of the poor Indian whose deep devotedness and fervent love made his own infidelity so cruelly unjust . 
But his determination was made , to apprise her of his engagement with Teresa , as the only means , short of absolute harshness , by which to prevent her going with him to Darien . 
To do this in person he found to be impossible , and he sought the friendly aid of the astrologer . 
Vasco Nunez , my son , I share with you the dishonour and the pang ; and bitterly now do I repent me of the share I had in this deed , since I feel the difficulty that attends escape , and the faithlessness which , one way or another , the attempt to escape involves . '' 
`` There is no escape , '' replied Vasco Nunez . 
Hear me , son Vasco . 
Hadst thou read this , Micer Codro , '' lifting the letter as he spoke , `` thou hadst held other language . '' 
Thou art free , Vasco Nunez -- free at last -- and no will but thine own can again enslave thee . 
exclaimed the other , interrupting him . 
said Vasco Nunez , resolutely . 
Vasco Nunez , thy words will kill her . 
The head of Vasco Nunez rested against a palm-tree , hot and heavy , while a strange sickness of heart and feebleness of limbs seemed to paralyse his faculties . 
He would have called out to the astrologer as he departed , but the tongue refused its office -- his lips were parched , and even had they been willing , there was no coherent thought in his mind to which words could have given utterance . 
He accused himself of the counsel by which Vasco Nunez had been led to the engagement which robbed the Indian damsel of her rights ; and though he did not seek to excuse his course by the plea of necessity , he yet unfolded the circumstances by which he had been persuaded that the adoption of such a course alone , could have rescued his principal from the iron tyranny of Pedrarias , which , as the reader will remember , at that time threatened him with death . 
The honour of Vasco Nunez requires this sacrifice of thy own and his affections . 
The power of speech had been taken from her when she listened to the utterance of those first words which declared her isolation . 
Her eyes were dry ; and they glared with a vague apprehension , rather of mistrust than fear , upon the countenance of the speaker . 
The pulsation at her heart seemed suddenly to stop , and when the astrologer ceased speaking she continued to gaze upon him in a silence which he found , in the activity of his own suggestive conscience , more full of reproach , than could have been any words from her lips . 
Again he spoke , not in palliation either of himself or of Vasco Nunez , but accusation of both . 
`` It might be avoided , Careta -- this cruel deed -- this departure from that faith which Vasco Nunez has pledged to thee and thy father , not less earnestly than to Pedrarias and Teresa Davila , and which -- '' She broke the silence which had sealed up her lips so long . 
she murmured in barely audible accents ; `` it was all truth . 
I have heard of this before , my father -- from the lips of Señor Pedro I heard it , the night when he came to slay -- '' The choking emotion stifled the accents in her throat when she came to speak of him ; and the event to which her memory brought her -- the event of that night when , in the devotedness of her heart , she stood between the dagger-point of the assassin and that bosom which now proved itself so utterly regardless of hers -- stung her with a keener pang , when , by a natural reflection , her sense of justice assured her that such devotion , alone , should have secured her the lasting love of the man for whom it had been so strongly shown , and without which who could not have survived to requite another 's love , or prove so faithless to hers . 
The consciousness of utter abandonment -- the feeling that she was now , on a sudden , cut away from all the ties which had sustained her -- that , where she had set her soul , she was denied to rest for hope , for love , for nourishment -- was too overwhelming for farther expression , and slowly she sank from the rude bench on which she had been sitting , and crouched and cowered upon the rush-strewn floor of the habitation , uttering neither word nor moan , and with face bent to the ground in a seeming stupor , from which , with a mistaken kindness , the astrologer sought to arouse her . 
She had neither swooned nor fainted , nor was she unconscious , as at first he thought ; and when he renewed his assurances of his own continued and increased regard and protection , she answered in a manner which sufficiently betrayed her entire indifference to her future lot . 
Vasco Nunez loves thee not less because of this new tie -- he will be to thee even -- '' `` Tell me not this , my father . 
I tell thee , Vasco Nunez loves thee not less because of his pledge to Teresa Davila -- '' `` No , my father , no ! 
exclaimed Vasco Nunez when the astrologer joined him . 
It is not too late , Vasco Nunez ! 
I go to her now , Vasco Nunez , to bid her be in readiness . 
But a solitary glimpse of her person , during the brief voyage to the Balsas , did Vasco Nunez behold , and he shrank away from the contemplation of those features whose sorrows were his shame . 
He shrank away from beholding her , and his eyes never again wandered to that part of the vessel which contained her form . 
She saw not him , and , indeed , saw none while the voyage lasted . 
When they reached the Balsas , and the messengers for Coyba , to whom Vasco Nunez had given it in charge to conduct her to her father , were prepared to commence their journey , she was no where to be found ; and though she had been seen but a little while before the vessel entered the river , the reasons were strong for supposing she had thrown herself overboard before it did so . 
Search was made for her along the shore wherever it was thought possible for her to secrete herself , but in vain ; and Vasco Nunez was subjected to the cruel conviction , that his criminal injustice had prompted her to commit self-murder . 
He had been equally fatal to her happiness and life . 
It would be needless to dwell upon his misery as this conviction forced itself upon his mind . 
He now felt , for the first time , the full force of his cruel and criminal proceedings ; and could she at that moment have been restored to his arms , it is certain that in his penitence he would have done her justice -- he would have re-resolved with a better regard to the dictates of honour ; and , adopting those counsels of the astrologer , which he now acknowledged he had been too ready to reject , he would have placed it out of his own power to have repeated the injustice . 
This sentiment became stronger as they approached Acla , and at length the kinder feelings of Gaspar Nino , the chief of the messengers , getting the better of his caution and loyalty , and touched with the melancholy that weighed upon the mind of the adelantado , he revealed to him the facts so far as they were known in Darien , the suspicions entertained by all parties , and the one circumstance , which , to a more suspicious mind than Vasco Nunez , might have seemed conclusive , the arrest and imprisonment of his friend Arguello . 
But Vasco Nunez , though aroused and astonished by this recital , would not believe it . 
`` These are conjectures only , '' he said to Gaspar Nino . 
`` Arguello has been guilty of something which may merit imprisonment , and though Pedrarias might have spoken to me of the matter , yet I see not that his omission to do so , makes any thing in favour of thy suspicion . 
Besides , I am conscious of no evil intention , no wrong , no crime , no injustice , to Pedrarias , for which I have any cause of apprehension ; and this letter '' -- here he spoke to his own thoughts rather than to Nino , for he refered to the fatal letter of Teresa , -- `` this letter is proof against thy story . 
The words of the astrologer were echoed by the whole party , not excepting Vasco Nunez himself . 
`` Is this the way , Francisco , you have been accustomed to receive Vasco Nunez ? '' 
The charges were principally sustained by the evidence of the secretary -- the fragments of papers and notes which he produced of Vasco Nunez ; and by that of a soldier , who stood sentinel one night near the tent of the adelantado at Isla Rica , and overheard a conversation between him and certain of his officers , wherein he declared his resolution to put to sea , in the event of certain circumstances , on his own account , and to set the governor at defiance . 
This testimony , according to Las Casas , arose from a misconstruction on the part of the sentinel , who heard but a part of the conversation , which related to his intention of sailing without orders , in case a new governor should arrive to supersede Pedrarias -- an event which had been reported to Vasco Nunez as really about to occur . 
The defence of Vasco Nunez was that of indignant innocence . 
He met his accusers with an eye at once fearless and frank , and in turn became the accuser , when the secretary stood before him with his part of the accusation . 
This she had done in silence and trembling , crouching in a recess of the court-room , until that moment when Vasco Nunez spoke of her as sleeping in death beneath the waters of the sea . 
The tender eulogy which he had uttered upon her virtues -- the fond tones of his voice , so like those which he was wont to use in the first days of their communion -- warmed her heart and made her blood , like a fountain escaping from the earth , well up in a sudden gush of impulse , that defied the restraints of fear and prudence ; and her lips poured forth the abundant feeling of her bosom , in an utterance which prevailed , for the moment , over all voices and every will in that presence . 
Such were the words of Vasco Nunez when he recovered himself sufficiently from his surprise at her unlooked-for presence to speak to her . 
He would have raised her from the floor , and placed her on a seat beside him , but she clung to his knees , and would not be removed . 
Her long raven tresses , loose and flowing , covered her shoulders and swept the floor , while her eyes , turning now from his face to those of the judges , gradually began to assume their wonted timidity of expression , which the enthusiasm of her first impulse , on rushing forward from her place of concealment , had for the moment banished . 
`` Then , '' said the governor , throwing aside the mask of hypocrisy which he had so unnecessarily and ostentatiously worn -- `` then , Vasco Nunez , do I discard you from my affection . 
Hitherto , I have looked upon you as loyal to your sovereign , and to me , as his representative -- I have accordingly treated you as my son , and it was at one time my wish that you should become so . 
Vasco Nunez rose to his full height as he listened to this language . 
Hitherto he had been cowed and oppressed by circumstances . 
The consciousness of his guilt to Careta -- his belief in her death -- the degradation of the arrest to which he had been subjected -- all wrought together to produce in his mind a downward tendency of thought and feeling , which took the fire from his eye , and the life from his movement , and that proud , commanding energy from his voice , which , in his days of greatness and glory , had been among his most distinguishing exterior attributes . 
At this instant he seemed to resume them all -- the presence of Careta , restored to life , had given a new strength to his heart ; and his conscience had somewhat relieved itself , most probably , in the return to his bosom of some of those more generous -- just , we should say -- emotions , which his wild and maddening passion for Teresa had for a time banished . 
He now met the insolent gaze of Pedrarias with a glance of defiance . 
His words were fearless , and denoted the innocence which they were not permitted to prove . 
Nowise moved , but stern and collected to the last , the voice of Vasco Nunez was heard immediately after -- `` From this bloody and unjust judgment , Don Pedrarias , I appeal to the king . 
Let it be known in Acla that the rebel Vasco Nunez dies to-morrow on the block . '' 
Vasco Nunez raised her , with unshaken nerves , from the floor , and bitter was the pang of that self-reproach in his heart , which reminded him that he had thrown away , not merely life , but the richest jewel among heaven 's gifts of mercy , by his improvident return , under the seductions of that fatal letter , to chains and death at Acla . 
His eyes met those of Micer Codro , whose efforts , it may be said here , however ineffectual , had been made without ceasings in his behalf . 
His evidence could disprove nothing , and his misery throughout the trial had been far greater than that of him whom it most endangered . 
Thespirit of Vasco Nunez , like that of all truly great men , rose more proudly under the pressure of injustice . 
He was more surprised than sorrowful at the precipitate and wanton judgment which had been passed upon him . 
They were all too much in awe of the wanton disposition of the governor , to take any active part in opposition to his will ; and the soldiers at Acla were chiefly the new recruits brought with him from Spain , most of whom regarded Vasco Nunez with hostility rather than with favour . 
His own warriors , the `` old soldiers of Darien , '' upon whom he could have relied to wrest him from the tyrant , or revenge his death , were all improvidently left behind him at Isla Rica . 
Bitterly , indeed , as his mind reverted to the counsels of the astrologer , did he denounce his own folly and blindness , in thus , as it were , depriving himself of all strength and succour , and rushing , with headlong haste , into the snares of his enemy . 
`` But of what avail now , '' he exclaimed , `` of what avail to look back on what might have been done . 
The sorrows of the old man were inexpressible -- they impeded and even choked his utterance . 
`` It is said that Vasco Nunez is not doomed because of his treason to his sovereign , but because of his treachery to Teresa Davila . 
`` Call it not a falsehood , my dear lord , '' cried the voice of Careta , as she rushed forward from the entrance of the prison , and threw herself at the feet of the prisoner , -- `` call it not a falsehood ; let the poor Indian believe it for the truth . 
He clasped her to his bosom in a sudden agony of self-reproach and sorrow , and for a time was speechless . 
Her tears fell fast upon them , and her words , subsiding into occasional moans , left the astrologer and Vasco Nunez free to resume the conversation which her presence had interrupted . 
While this conversation proceeded , her attention was fixed by a renewal of the last topic upon which they had been engaged -- namely , the evil but undeclared influence which the connexion of Vasco Nunez with the Indian woman had maintained over the conduct of Pedrarias , prompting that vindictive pursuit of his victim , which he had shown throughout the trial , and which had evidently overawed the alcalde , and compelled his unwilling sentence of death . 
Vasco Nunez would have detained her . 
`` I saw him not , my lord , '' she replied hastily , and still seeking to extricate herself from his grasp , `` but I showed the gold which the Spaniard worships to the soldier at the door , and he took his god and suffered me to enter . 
Vasco Nunez would still have detained her , but a sign and word from the astrologer , to whom a sudden thought had suggested itself , moved him to compliance with her demand . 
The gaoler was one of the chosen creatures of Pizarro , and , it appeared , rendered hostile to Vasco Nunez in consequence of a punishment to which the latter had subjected him months before , as the reward of some petty offence , agains order , of which he had been guilty . 
He had not refused the gold of the Indian woman , since her presence in the prison could have availed the victim nothing in his desire for escape . 
Fond and faithful , in her childish simplicity of soul , she fancied that by declaring to the Spanish lady her own resignation of all claims upon Vasco Nunez , she should move the latter in his favour ; nothing doubting , that if , as she fully believed , the report of his connexion with her , had led , more than any thing beside , to his bitter sentence , her release , and the solemn pledge which she meant to offer , of her flight from his presence , would serve to restore him to the favour which he had lost , and to security from the penal doom which threatened him . 
`` There was some such treaty with my father , '' was the reply , `` but that was when the Senor Vasco was an honourable gentleman -- not when he became a traitor to his sovereign . '' 
`` But my lady loved him then ? '' 
can she not love him yet ? 
my lady , if he were a traitor to the king , believe me he was ever true to thee . 
Do not thou leave him to his enemies . 
They seek his life . 
He is doomed to die to-morrow ere the sun goes down . 
Not to love Vasco Nunez seemed as utterly unlikely , as to suffer a brave man to die by a cruel death , when it was in the power of a woman 's voice to interpose and save him . 
In that instant , the conviction flashed for the first time upon the Indian woman , of the utter callousness and heartlessness of the person whom she implored ; and she now felt aware , however difficult it had been to arrive at such a conclusion , that Teresa Davila had actually suffered herself to be betrothed to one , and such an one as Vasco Nunez , without loving him . 
Theefforts to save Vasco Nunez from the cruel and unjust doom which threatened him , were not confined to the Indian woman , in whose heart he had so dear an interest . 
There were many good citizens at Acla , who heard with sorrow the judgment passed upon him , who , at the instigation of Micer Codro , joined in a petition to Pedrarias to pardon the supposed criminal , or , at least , to commute his sentence to banishment and fine . 
They dwelt upon the wondrous discoveries he had made , and their great importance to the crown of Spain and to the fortunes of the Spanish people ; and though they especially avoided hinting such a conviction , in their application for mercy to a tyrant who had ever before shown a temper the most merciless , their petition was warmed into enthusiasm as they felt that , though Vasco Nunez might be guilty of the alleged crime , there was even in that a noble daring which amply sustained all their previous impressions of his eagle character , and made his so sudden doom a matter not merely of severity but cruelty . 
Micer Codro himself appeared before the arbiter of his friend 's fate , and on bended knee , implored for a remission of his doom as a gift of mercy rather than a due of justice -- a concession , however , which the proud spirit of Vasco Nunez had especially commanded him not to make . 
The soul of Vasco Nunez grew more and more calm and fearless as the hour of his fate approached ; and his heart , if more tender and subdued than ever by some of the circumstances of his situation , was , at the same time , more free than before from many harassing doubts and bitter self-childings . 
He had sought to banish from his mind the remembrance of Teresa Davila , and the hope being for ever banished which made him think of her as his wife , he was the better able to do justice to the claims of the devoted woman of Coyba , who was a silent mourner at his side . 
`` Let him attend , '' said Vasco Nunez , `` I will the sooner be prepared to die when I have done the last act of justice . '' 
The friar was summoned , and shortly made his appearance . 
`` Father , '' said Vasco Nunez , `` ere I make my last confession , and receive from your hands the holy sacrament , there is another no less solemn sacrament which I would have you perform . 
Send me not hence -- let me be with thee until -- '' She could not speak the rest ; but burying her face in his bosom , her sobs completed the sentence . 
exclaimed Vasco Nunez . 
The guards were at the entrance in the next moment ; and with a free step , erect carriage , and placid countenance , Vasco Nunez emerged into the open air , amidst the crowd of sorrowful and exulting faces which encountered him at the portals of the prison . 
Their various aspects produced no change in his . 
He walked forward with as little seeming emotion , as if he had the least interest of all in the terrible proceedings , until he reached the public square of Acla , when the whole dreadful array of death met his sight -- the scaffold and the executioner , and the grim guards already surrounding it and in waiting . 
A slight shudder of his frame might have been visible to a close eye as he approached the scaffold , but it passed away in another moment , and he ascended the ignominious eminence with a firm martial tread , and looked with unblenching cheek and fearless aspect upon the assembly . 
he asked of the masked headsman , whose slender frame seemed to promise but little of that strength which was required for such a duty as that before him . 
Vasco Nunez , utterly unawed , passed his finger over the blade . 
`` Surely that voice is not strange in my ears , '' exclaimed Vasco Nunez as he heard it , `` who art thou ? '' 
`` One who promised , long months ago , to stand beside thee in the last moments of thy life , '' said the other , partially lifting his mask so as to show his face only to the victim . 
`` Then let it blast thy hope , and sicken thee for ever , unhappy youth , to know that Vasco Nunez is utterly guiltless of thy brother 's death . 
Weapon of mine never touched his life -- this I swear in the presence of the great Judge , before whom my soul shall shortly appear . '' 
Vasco Nunez regarded him with a countenance of mingled pity and aversion ; but he turned away as the public crier announced the moment fixed for the fatal blow . 
His proclamation changed the current of the victim 's thoughts , and converted all of his feelings into indignation . 
This is the punishment inflicted by command of the king and his lieutenant , Don Pedrarias Davila , on this man , Vasco Nunez , as a traitor to the crown of Castile , and a usurper of its territories . '' 
exclaimed Vasco Nunez , in reply . 
The keen , quick eyes of Vasco Nunez turned in the direction of the sounds , and his heart quivered with a new emotion which he vainly strove to suppress , when he beheld Careta , with flowing hair and frantic footstep , making her desperate way through the crowd . 
`` Micer Codro , '' he exclaimed , hastily , `` she hath escaped . 
he said , turning to the executioner , whose own emotions were almost perceptible -- and kneeling down to the block as he spoke -- `` see that thou strike quickly and fairly . 
Whatever may be the guilt of Vasco Nunez , his soul is innocent of that . 
His arm touched not the life of Garabito . '' 
The ligaments that secured her heart had cracked and given way in that awful instant ; and the immortal spirit of Vasco Nunez had scarcely risen from the spot where his body suffered death , ere it was joined by the most devoted soul that had ever loved and valued it before . 
`` He slew Jorge Garabito , my brother ! '' 
cried the secretary ; `` had he not , Micer Codro , I had worshipped him . '' 
`` He slew him not ! '' 
`` They have sworn falsely then , '' said Francisco Pizarro , who came forward at this moment , with a grin of bitter satisfaction on his features -- `` here is one who beheld the death-bed of Ortado , the matador , and heard his last confession , by which we learn that he was employed by Jorge Garabito and Enciso to slay Vasco Nunez as he came from the bohio of Teresa Davila , whom he was known to seek nightly in San Domingo . 
Garabito went with the matador , and stood in waiting behind a tree , where he was slain by one unknown , at the very time when Vasco Nunez was advancing towards him , the said Ortado , in front . 
This he knows , for he beheld Vasco Nunez plainly . 
It was the purpose of Enciso to destroy Vasco Nunez , and hence the assassination was placed to his score . 
But the dreaded truth rose triumphant over the fond artifices of his hope ann thought ; and when he could no longer baffle it , the conviction became fatal to his sanity -- madness followed ; and crying aloud to all he met , `` that hell was already in his heart , '' he disappeared for ever from the scene of his dreadful crimes , and blind , reckless vengeance . 
`` It appears , '' says this writer , `` that , after the death of Vasco Nunez , he continued for several years rambling about the New World , in the train of the discoverers ; bent upon studying the secrets of its natural history , rather than searching after its treasures . 
In the course of his wanderings he was once coasting the shores of the Southern Ocean , in a ship commanded by one Geronimo de Valenzuela , from whom he received such cruel treatment as to cause his death . 
According to his account , the prediction of Micer Codro held good with respect to Valenzuela , as it had in the case of Vasco Nunez . 
They lived , indeed , to triumph above the graves of many other victims , only less great and less noble than Vasco Nunez ; but they were wretched even in their conquests , and though the shame and dishonour which hang about their memories , may not depict the misery of their secret souls , during their bitter and merciless career of life , it will not be difficult to imagine what seeds of bitterness and sorrow must have sprung in such wretched soil -- how they must have been haunted ever by the shadows of evil deeds , and the goadings of evil thoughts , and perished at length , looking back without satisfaction to the past , and forward , to the future , without hope . 
