said Lucia ; `` is your egg overdone , or are you suffering the excruciating pangs of the gout , or enduring the deadly infliction of a hepatic paroxysm ? '' 
I wish to heaven you would talk English , Lucia . '' 
`` I know it , I know it , '' said he ; `` it is as different as a quaker bonnet and a French hat . 
Lucia was half angry , and put up a lip as red as a cherry . 
said Lucia , anxiously . 
cried he , furiously advancing towards her with his fist doubled ; `` that puppy , Highfield , has not got the first honour after all , I see by the paper . 
He had a provoking way of interrupting Lucia in her flights ; and , had she not been one of the best natured of the azure tribe , she would have sometimes lost her temper . 
I shall be glad to see my dear , good natured cousin Charles once more , though he has not got the first honour , '' said Lucia , smiling . 
I never saw such an absurd , obstinate , illnatured , passionate '' -- `` O father '' said Lucia , `` every body says Mr. Fairweather was never in a passion in his life . '' 
He possessed a large estate in one of the southern states , but preferred living in the city during the period in which his daughter Lucia , who was his only child , was acquiring the accomplishments of a fashionable education . 
He was a good scholar , and had seen enough of the frippery of life to relish the beauties of an unaffected simplicity in speech and action . 
He could not endure to hear a person talking for effect , or disturbing the pleasant , unstudied chit-chat of a social party , by full mouthed declamations , and inflated nothings , delivered with all the pomp of an oracle . 
Grimace and affectation of all kind , he despised ; and among all the affectations of the day , that which is vulgarly called a blue stocking made him the most impatient . 
Among the admirers , which the beauty and fortune of Lucia attracted around her , his most favourite aversion was a Mr. Fitzgiles Goshawk , who wrote doggrel rhymes almost equal to Lord Byron ; and whose conversation perpetually reminded him , as he said , of a falling meteor , which , when handled , proves nothing but a jelly -- a cold , dull mass , that glitters only while it is shooting . 
Lucia , on the contrary , though naturally a fine , sensible girl , full of artless simplicity , and free from all pretence or affectation , admired Mr. Goshawk excessively . 
Our heroine -- for such is Lucia , was , we grieve to say it , a little of the azure tint . 
Truth obliges us to say , that Lucia only realized this fine sketch of a young woman , when acting from the unstudied impulses of nature , among her familiar domestic associates , where she did not think it worth her while to glitter . 
The old gentleman did not kick him out of doors as he threatened ; and Lucia , though she did not therefore signalize herself by letting him in , received him with a smile and a hand of gentle welcome -- one as bright as the sunbeam , the other as soft as a ray of the moon . 
Charles looked at Lucia , as if to inquire the meaning of this explosion ; and Lucia looked most mischievously mysterious , but said nothing . 
I declare , thought Lucia , that puts me in mind of Mr. Goshawk -- how eloquent ! 
Lucia , come here , you baggage , and wish me joy . '' 
Hum , thought Lucia , that is more than you know , father . 
When Lucia retired , she could not help thinking of this prophecy of the old gentleman . 
Mrs. Coates sent to invite Lucia to go out with her , to assist in the selection of a riband , which was always a matter of great delicacy and circumspection with Mrs. Petticoats . 
`` Sir Francis Bacon '' -- said he -- `` Sir Richard Gammon '' said Mrs. Coates -- `` Dr. Johnson affirms '' -- `` The Edinburgh Review says '' -- `` The London Quarterly lays it down '' -- `` The London Literary Gazette '' -- screamed Lucia -- `` Blackwood 's Bombazine '' -- cried Mrs. Coates , yet louder . 
Here Highfield happened to be passing by , and Lucia called him in by tapping at the window ; for she was anxious to have a little display before him . 
Highfield had known them all , having visited with Lucia , during his vacations . 
He held them , however , in so little respect , that he did not mind quizzing them now and then . 
His entrance put an end to the literary disscussion about Pelham , and the torrent took another course . 
said he , `` why really I think he was a great fool to shoot himself . '' 
And `` all passion , '' echoed Lucia , Mr. Prosser , and the rest of the party . 
Goshawk shrugged his shoulders , and looked at Lucia , as if to say , her cousin Charles was an every day sort of person . 
Lucia thought his sentiments tolerable enough ; but what superior man ever talked such plain , English ? 
sighed Lucia , what a flow of language ! 
The fact is , that Goshawk rolled out these incomprehensible nothings with such an imposing enthusiasm , such a rapidity of utterance , that it is hardly a reflection on Lucia 's good sense that she admired them . 
cried they all together , and little Lucia among the loudest -- `` hate argument ! '' 
`` What a beautiful figure , '' said Lucia ; `` he talks like a rainbow . '' 
said Lucia , with enthusiam . 
`` My dear aunt , '' said Lucia , excessively mortified , `` my dear aunt you mean the meteor . '' 
`` My good sir , no two things can be more distinct ; I have heard thousands of arguments in which there was no more logic than in the couplet of the primer -- `` And do you mean to deny the conclusion , '' said the other , with his usual enthusiasm . 
what a beautiful alliteration , '' exclaimed Lucia , who was dipping into Mr. Thomas Moore . 
`` If you do , I 'll net you a silk purse ; '' said Lucia . 
`` Lovely , lively , lisping , laughing Lucia Lightfoot Lee . '' 
said Lucia , blushing a little . 
`` It finds no He Cow -LSB- 1 -RSB- in my feelings , '' said Mrs. Coates . 
The ladies , though they could not get over the silly , and vulgar notion of the superiority of society abroad , all thought Highfield a very polite , agreeable young fellow ; and Lucia found herself on the very threshold of relishing a little common sense . 
Why I did threaten it the other day , and Lucia told me if I did , she would certainly let him in again . '' 
In the meantime , Lucia and Highfield were much together . 
Lucia liked him extremely ; she liked his good humour , his vivacity , his spirit , and his generous forgetfulness of himself ; she even thought him rather handsome , and quite a sensible young man . 
But her ideas of men had been formed from the declamations of the azure club , with which she had been intimately associated for the last few years . 
It was here that she learned to consider words of much more consequence than actions , talents than temper , enthusiasm than common sense , and an utter incapacity for usefulness as the best test of genius . 
She was often struck with the manly sense and unpretending beauty of Highfield 's sentiments ; but then they were expressed with such a nakedness , such a poverty of words , such a natural simplicity , that all the azures pronounced him a very common-place sort of a person , that would never set the world crying about nothing , or be himself miserable without cause . 
Lucia whispered Mrs. Coates , who replied in some agitation , `` I mean allegory and thermometer . 
Even Lucia mingled her tuneful nonsense with the incomprehensible olio . 
A pause at length ensuing , Miss Appleby turned suddenly to Highfield , and asked him , `` O Mr. Highfield , I hope you admire those beautiful historical romances , and romantic histories , that come out every day now-a-days ? 
The whole coterie , Lucia among the rest , was scandalized at this atrocious criticism , and separated in confusion . 
Mr. Fitzgiles Goshawk escorted Lucia home , and discoursed as seldom man in his senses , talking to a woman in hers , ever discoursed before . 
On going away he gave into Lucia 's hand a paper , accompanied by a look that went straight to her heart . 
She retired to her chamber , and unfolding it with trembling hands , found the following exquisite effusion : How delightful , thought Lucia , wiping her eyes ; how delightful it must be to be unhappy , without knowing exactly why ! 
Thefather of Lucia , though he had not become quite a sage had yet derived considerable benefit from experience . 
Mr. Lee had come to the conclusion , that the best way of bringing about a union of hearts , was to keep the secret of his wishes to himself ; and let Lucia and Highfield follow the guidance of dame nature . 
Both Highfield and Lucia , it is believed , remained quite unconscious of the intentions of the old gentleman towards them . 
Lucia was a little too much of the azure ; but I have seen the time , not quite half a century ago , when such a woman , would have wakened , in my heart a hundred sleeping cupids . 
Such , in her natural state , was Lucia Lightfoot Lee , a lovely maiden , but alas ! 
He was poor and dependent ; Lucia was an heiress . 
Had he believed it in his power to gain the affections of his cousin , he would have despised himself for the attempt . 
But he saw that her imagination , if not her heart , was captivated by the empty but showy accomplishments of Mr. Goshawk ; and the hope of success was not strong enough to blind him to the meanness of the attempt . 
Lucia was too much occupied with Mr. Fitzgiles Goshawk and his mysterious sorrows , to notice this ; but the old gentleman began to be fidgety and impatient at the unpromising prospect of his favourite plan . 
`` What is the matter with you and Lucia ? '' 
`` Why , '' roared the old gentleman , in a transport of rage , `` you might have seen that I intended you for my son-in-law -- you blockhead ; that I meant to leave you and Lucia all my estate -- you fool ; that I had set my heart on it -- you -- you ungrateful villain . 
`` Why , sir , I have cherished it , lived upon it , ever since Lucia was born . 
But it is all over now ; you want to leave us ; and you think Lucia ` a sensible , discreet , well behaved , promising young woman , ' -- sixteen hands high ; '' mimicking poor Highfield , as he repeated these panegyrics . 
Go , and make a bow to Lucia ; play Mr. Goshawk , and talk as much like a madman as possible . '' 
Highfieldsought Lucia , and found her sitting at a window , which looked out upon the beautiful bay , where the fair and noble Hudson basks its beauties for awhile in the sun , before it loses itself for ever in the vast solitudes of the pathless sea . 
Lucia was at the open window -- her rosy cheek leaning pensively on her snowy hand . 
`` Well , Lucia , '' said Highfield , with a familiar frankness , which his intimacy and near relationship warranted -- `` Well , Lucia , have you begun my watch chain yet ? '' 
`` What ails you , Lucia -- are you not well ? '' 
Lucia was all life and animation . 
She expects to meet Goshawk there , thought Highfield ; but he neither pouted , or was rude to his cousin on the way . 
Nay , he exerted all his wit and pleasantry , and before they arrived , Lucia thought to herself she would begin to net the watch chain that very evening . 
Lucia said nothing ; but the tumults of her bosom told her nobody could write such heart-rending lines but Mr. Goshawk . 
echoed the rest of the azures , with the exception of Lucia , who determined not to commence the watch-chain that evening , if ever . 
He had thrown himself accidentally by the side of Lucia . 
Goshawk knew as well what she meant as she did herself ; but he looked at her with the most absent , vacant , ignorant wonder it was possible for any man to assume , as he answered . 
asked Lucia , amused in spite of herself with this banter . 
Lucia appeared so much amused with this whimsical arrangement , that Goshawk , who , though the most abstracted of human beings , never for a moment forgot himself or his vanity , thought it high time to interfere . 
thought Lucia , and fell into a painful doubt , whether such a being would ever condescend to think of her a moment , present or absent . 
`` Would that I knew , that I could comprehend , what it is that makes him so wretched , '' thought Lucia , little suspecting that the poor gentleman would have been puzzled himself to tell her . 
asked Lucia , pointing to the sofa . 
Juba advanced , looked at the spot , and began to grin with that mortal display of ivory peculiar to his race . 
Lucia immediately summoned the whole household , consisting of a troop of coloured ladies and gentlemen , whose principal business was to make work for each other . 
Ever since Lucia became azure , they had been pretty much suffered to do as they pleased , and it was their pleasure to do nothing but copy their young mistress in dress and behaviour as much as possible . 
The black cook was something of an azure herself , read all those useful little tracts which teach servants the duties of masters and mistresses , wore prunelle shoes , and cooked dinner in an undress of black silk ; the coachman , almost as sentimentally miserable as Mr. Goshawk ; and Lucia 's maid , a great admirer of Miss Wright . 
Poor Mr. Fairweather , who knew the value of neatness , and prided himself on his unspotted , unsullied black coat , had often carried off a tribute from the parlour , and that morning determined to give Lucia a broad hint . 
Accordingly he took his forefinger in his hand , and wrote in the dust that embellished the sofa , four large letters , almost six inches long , that being put together constitute an abominable word , than which there is none more horrible and unseemly to the ear and eye of womanhood . 
On these occasions Lucia was generally accompanied by Miss Appleby , Miss Overend , or some one of her female friends , and escorted by Highfield and Goshawk , with the latter of whom our heroine generally fell into a tete-a-tete in the course of the ride . 
He was more than commonly miserable that day , having observed that Lucia began to sympathize deeply in his sorrows . 
The horses , indeed , sometimes pricked up their ears , and wondered , but displayed no decided symptoms of affright , until , as ill luck would have it , just as they came to the corner of Chamber street , a little woman about four feet high issued suddenly forth from a shop , with a bonnet , of such alarming dimensions , and singular incongruity of shape and decoration , that Lucia 's horse , who had never been at a fancy ball , could stand it no longer . 
He wheeled suddenly round , against Mr. Goshawk 's steed , and reared . 
He now reared worse than ever , and Lucia , must have lost her seat in a few moments , when Highfield who was a little in advance with the other ladies , being roused by Goshawk 's exclamation , looked round , and was at the horse 's head , on foot , in an instant . 
Lucia still kept her seat though almost insensible to where she was , or what was going forward . 
At the same instant a gentleman assisted Lucia to dismount , which she had scarcely done , when the animal , as if recovered from his astonishment made one plunge , struck his hoofs into Highfield 's breast , threw him on his back insensible , and dashed away full speed . 
At the same moment Mr. Goshawk , who had been exceedingly active in protesting against the inhumanity of the crowd , which stood looking on without being able to render any assistance , was likewise so overcome by his exertions that he lost his memory , for a little while , after which he poured forth so eloquent a felicitation on Lucia 's escape from a danger , which , however slight , had harrowed up his very soul , that she remembered it long after , when she ought to have been remembering something else . 
Lucia and Highfield met the next morning ; the former languid with her fright , the latter pale , and stiff with his bruises . 
Lucia was netting a purse . 
She thanked him , in simple , unaffected , heartfelt terms ; for it is only affectation that deals in pompous phrases . 
The tears came into her eyes , as she noticed his wounded hands , and perceived , by the slight variations that passed over his countenance , that every motion was acccompanied with acute pain . 
Lucia was mortified that he should have missed so good an opportunity of being eloquent . 
Lucia threw the purse carelessly into her work basket ; and just then , Mr. Goshawk entered , to inquire how she did , after the accident . 
In short , he made himself out the hero of the affair , and before he had finished , actually persuaded Lucia , that honest Highfield was but a secondary person in the business . 
At the same time presenting Lucia with a perfumed sheet of paper . 
`` He has no more sentiment , nor feeling , enthusiasm , or genius , than -- than '' -- Lucia could not hit upon a comparison expressive of her indignation . 
Lucia , pity me , '' cried he , taking her hand . 
`` I do , indeed I do , '' cried Lucia , overpowered by this picture of mysterious griefs . 
said Lucia , with a palpitating heart . 
`` Why this must be a queen at least , '' said Lucia , blushing with a whispering consciousness . 
`` The queen of love and beauty , '' replied Goshawk , delighted at his happy rejoinder . 
`` I do n't know , '' replied Lucia , blushing . 
Lucia started a little , and Goshawk looked rather foolish . 
Goshawk seemed not to admire this sketch , but for some reason or other , he was not so ready with a flight as usual . 
Lucia took up the defence of the little godhead . 
`` But there is another and a nobler love , '' resumed Highfield , with more enthusiasm than he had ever before displayed in the presence of his cousin , `` there is another and a nobler love , the divinity of rational and virtuous man . 
Neither Mr. Goshawk nor Lucia made any reply . 
Goshawk took his leave ; Lucia sought her father , and Highfield his bed ; for he was really much indisposed with his bruises . 
He considered the heart of a woman like one of his eggs , that could be boiled in a minute and a half ; and took it for granted , Lucia must be deeply in love with Highfield since the adventure of the fashionable bonnet . 
Accordingly he determined to sound her forthwith , that no time might be lost . 
He might as well have sounded the bottomless abysses of lake Superior ; for the heart of a city belle in love is as unfathomable , if not as pure , as they . 
`` Well , Lucia , '' said he , as she entered his library , `` how do you feel after your fright ? '' 
cried Lucia , and her heart beat a little , `` I hope it will not be necessary . '' 
I believe the d -- l is in you this morning , Lucia . '' 
`` I believe the deuce is in you this morning , father , '' said Lucia , smiling ; `` for I ca n't understand you . '' 
`` Why , father , '' said Lucia , `` if he is sad , I will play him merry tunes ; if he is cheerful , I will laugh with him ; if he is cross , I will bear with him . 
If Lucia meant to say more , she was stopped by an unaccountable huskiness in her throat , that took away her breath . 
The reader will doubtless have observed , that during the whole of the foregoing dialogue , Lucia spoke in simple , natural language , without a single touch of azure . 
After a vast many pros and cons , Lucia determined , in the true spirit of a woman with more than one admirer , to play them off against each other ; to put to the test the ardour and stability of their passion , by trying what the patience of mortal man is capable of enduring . 
`` Poor man , '' thought Lucia , `` his mind is preying on his delicate frame ! 
said he . 
Lucia felt like the ox-eyed Juno , in her glorious paraphernalia . 
How handsome and interesting he is , thought our heroine as she looked at herself in the glass . 
If he only had whiskers he would be irresistible . 
This sally made Lucia smile , and restored her good humour , which indeed was never long away . 
Lucia put her arm within Highfield 's , and they went away as gay as boblincons in a clover meadow . 
Lucia forgot for a moment her plan of making him jealous ; but there was a little imp of mischief at her elbow that soon put her in mind of it again . 
Highfieldand our heroine dropped in upon the whole azure coterie , at Miss Appleby 's , with the exception of Mr. Fitzgiles Goshawk , whose absence afforded an excellent subject for declamation ; especially when Lucia informed the company he was indisposed . 
Lucia privately resolved that Master Highfield should pay for making sport of the hallowed and mysterious sorrows of Mr. Goshawk . 
`` Well , Lucia , '' said Miss Appleby , `` I suppose you had a delightfully affecting interview with your cousin , after the affair . 
What did he say ? '' 
`` Nothing , '' said Lucia . 
Lucia , though a little affronted with Highfield , was too generous to suffer him to be undervalued in this manner , especially in his absence . 
`` My dear aunt , '' cried Lucia , interrupting the good lady , who was losing herself in a Dismal Swamp of meteors , as she called them ; `` my dear aunt , I am aware of the superiority of words over deeds , in an age of development like the present , and that he who performs a great action is but an instrument in the hands of the man of genius who celebrates it in never dying verse . 
Lucia was overawed and silenced by the eloquence of Paddleford , and the suffrages of all the company . 
Lucia never dreamed that Paddleford came near breaking his neck a few nights before , by jumping out of a second story window on a false alarm of fire ; or that while he affected a contempt for life , he never met a funeral or heard a bell tolling , without a fit of the blue devils . 
said Miss Overend to Lucia . 
Now , he could not scold Highfield for being sick ; nor the doctor , for he was absent ; nor Mr. Fairweather , because he was not present : so he set to work , and scolded Lucia . 
said he in reply to Lucia 's gentle yet sincere expression of sorrow , `` Oh yes ! 
Lucia made it a point never to laugh at her father ; but it must be owned he sometimes put her to hard trials . 
`` If my father had taught me to box , instead of play the piano , I might have made the attempt , '' said she , smiling . 
Lucia had never heard of caudle , except in association with certain matters , and blushed like a rose . 
`` My dear sir , you know '' -- and she stopped short , in a flutter . 
And the old gentleman caricatured her tone and manner most unmercifully . 
Had the romance of Highfield and Lucia been in the best possible progress , he would have gone nigh to throw it back a hundred years . 
Lucia entered the chamber of the invalid , somewhat against her will , and consequently but little disposed to sympathize with him . 
But his great error was in discovering so much gratitude for the visit , that Lucia became alarmed at her own condescension , and determined to retrieve her error by behaving as ungraciously as her conscience would permit . 
He perceived that Lucia had come unwillingly , and from that moment felt nothing but mortification at her having come at all . 
The whole affair ended in making Lucia dissatisfied with herself ; Highfield worse than before ; and Mr. Lightfoot Lee most intolerably angry . 
you and Lucia will make a hard frost between you . 
`` O certainly , sir , certainly -- wait patiently , until I see my daughter run away with Mr. Fitzgiles Goshawk , because he has such a flow of words , and uses such beautiful language ; or 'till I die of old age , and Lucia becomes a pedantic old maid . 
`` Well then I do promise -- I pledge my word , that you shall do as you please in this affair , and that Lucia shall have her own way in every thing but in marrying that puppy sentimental , master Fitzgiles Goshawk . '' 
During this period Lucia entirely intermitted her intercourse with the azure coterie , and saw Mr. Goshawk but once , when he came in a long beard , dishevelled locks , neglected costume , and various other insignia of a despairing lover . 
But Lucia just now was deeply touched with the danger of Highfield , and remembered while Goshawk had only felt , the other was suffering for his exertions to preserve her life . 
What Lucia felt now , satisfied her that her former feelings were rather reflected from the society to which she was accustomed , and the false colouring in which their false sentiment was enveloped , than from her own heart . 
It was at these times , when he knew nobody , and could interpret nothing which he saw or heard , that the pride and delicacy of Lucia would yield to the impulses of her heart , and she would watch for hours at his bedside , moisten his parched lips , smooth his pillow , dispose his aching head in easy postures , and once , only once , she kissed his damp cold forehead . 
There was nothing violent in his delirium ; his wanderings were low and disjoined murmurs , connected as far as they could be understood , with the recollections of his cousin . 
Sometimes he would pause and fix his unsteady wandering eyes upon her , as if some remote consciousness crossed his mind ; but it was only a momentary effort of memory , and died away in the wild wanderings of a diseased imagination . 
But youth and a good constitution at length triumphed , and he became convalescent . 
As he recovered possession of his reason , Lucia discontinued her watchings and confined herself within the limits of ordinary attentions . 
Lucia and Highfield had resumed their intercourse , but with no great appearance of cordiality . 
Highfield remained ignorant of the cares she had lavished and the tears she had shed while he was unconscious of every thing , and Lucia , fearful that he might possibly know it , shrunk with a timid consciousness from all appearance or indication of that deep feeling which late events had wakened in her bosom . 
He resolved , in the recesses of his mind , to refrain in future from every attention to his cousin , but such as their relationship demanded ; and she secretly determined to hide the strong preference she now felt , under the impenetrable mask of cool indifference . 
I will not , said Highfield mentally , I will not appeal to her gratitude or pity , for what her love denies ; and I , thought Lucia , scorn to repay with love a debt of gratitude to one who seems to think that alone sufficient . 
Highfield sought every opportunity of being from home ; and Lucia was more than ever in the company of Mr. Goshawk , who became every day more miserable and incomprehensible . 
He talked of smothered feelings in a voice of thunder , and sighed with such emphasis , that he on one occasion dislodged a geranium pot from a front window , and came very near breaking the head of a little chimney-sweep who was sunning himself below . 
But Lucia , though she encouraged his affectations , from a mysterious , indefinite desire to be revenged on Highfield for she knew not what , began to sicken a little at his superlative azure . 
Of late she had become too well acquainted with the substance of feeling and passion to be deluded by the shadow , and sometimes , amid the depression of her mind , felt a great inclination to laugh at the mighty Goshawk and his mighty verbosity . 
This heartless intimacy contributed still more to estrange Highfield from home and her society ; for , unacquainted as he was with her real feelings , he believed in his heart that his cousin had a decided prepossession for the empty sentimentalist . 
He had never altogether recovered his strength or his colour ; there was a paleness in his face , a lassitude about his frame , and a slow languor of motion , which gave to his appearance a touching interest ; and Lucia , as she sometimes watched him without being seen , felt the tears on her eyelashes , as she noticed the wreck of his youth , and recalled to mind to what it was owing . 
Thus matters remained ; Highfield was only waiting the return of his strength , to make a final effort to disengage himself from the family and pursue his fortune ; Goshawk was daily meditating whether he should sell the old gentleman 's lands and buy stock when he married Lucia and succeeded to the estate ; and Lucia was daily losing her vivacity in the desperate attempt to be gay . 
He could not help seeing that his favourite project was in a most backsliding condition , and that every day Lucia was less with Highfield and more with Goshawk . 
Whereupon he gathered himself together , and uttered a tremendous libel upon literary pretenders , rhyming fops , empty declaimers , and sentimental puppies . 
Nay he spared not the azures themselves , but pronounced their condemnation in words of such horrible atrocity , that I will not dare the responsibility even of putting them on record . 
I will not deny , however , that in the midst of his blasphemies he said some things carrying with them a remote affinity with common sense . 
He affirmed that there was among the women of the present fashionable world , a hollow affectation of literature ; an admiration of affected sentiment and overstrained hyperbole ; that they placed too little value on morals , and too much on manners ; that an amiable disposition , together with all the qualities essential to honourable action , were held in little consideration , while they paid their court to the most diminutive dwarf of a genius , and listened with exclusive delight to frothy declamations , the product of empty heads and hollow hearts , alike devoid of manly firmness or the capacity to be uselful in any honourable rank or situation . 
if Lucia talked sentiment , he ejaculated some other epithet of mortal contempt ; and if Highfield said any thing about honour or independence , he called him a puppy . 
Goshawk ventured to hint pretty distinctly the nature and object of his mysterious sorrows ; Lucia treated her cousin with increasing coolness and Highfield looked paler and paler . 
Unable to bear his situation any longer , he one morning -- it was the day after Lucia had given the watch chain , she had promised him , to Goshawk , before his very eyes -- he one morning took the opportunity of being left alone with his uncle , to announce to him , that being now sufficiently recovered from his indisposition , it was his intention to visit his relatives in the south , and spend some time with them . 
`` Perhaps indeed I may not return at all , '' said he . 
Lucia not only feels indifferent to me , but there is every appearance that she prefers another . 
At this moment Lucia entered , and inquired anxiously what was the matter ? 
Lucia remained pondering for some time on the scene that had just passed ; and it was not till she learned that Highfield was on the point of leaving home for a long while , that her perplexity became absorbed in another and more powerful feeling . 
Jubawas assisting his young master , or rather delaying him , in packing up his things , for the old man made a sad business of it ; Lucia was in her chamber , netting a purse as fast as her eyes would let her ; and Mr. Lee was in his library , writing with all his might . 
Lucia at first had determined to have a headach , and stay in her room ; but her conscious heart whispered her this might excite a suspicion that she could not bear the parting with her cousin . 
`` And I too , '' said Lucia , but she could get no farther . 
Lucia had been fumbling , with a trembling hand , in her work-bag . 
one moment , '' cried Mr. Lee earnestly , and looking at Lucia , who was weeping in her chair . 
`` Lucia , '' said he solemnly , `` my nephew loves you , and is going from us that he may not see you throw yourself away on a puppy with a heart as hollow as his head . '' 
Lucia uncovered her face , and , having mastered her emotions , firmly replied , `` I will , father . '' 
Lucia answered not ; she could not speak for her life . 
You have given away you heart to some whiskered puppy you waltzed with at a fancy ball , who can write a string of disjointed nonsense about nothing in jingling rhyme , or criticise a book according to the latest Edinburgh or Quarterly ; and yet -- look at me , Lucia , and answer me too -- did you not while your cousin was delirious visit his bed-side ? '' 
`` And weep and wring your hands ; and watch his slumbers ; and minister to his comforts ; and did I not once when I came into the room suddenly , detect you hovering over him and kissing his forehead ? 
`` Oh Lucia , how unjust you have been to me ! 
`` The pride of woman , '' said Lucia . 
Oh Lucia , my dear cousin , daughter of my benefactor , companion of my childhood , will you , can you fulfil his wishes and my hopes without forfeiting your own happiness ? 
Look ye , most grateful lady , and most grateful gentleman , I have not quite so many years to live and make a fool of myself as you have , perhaps ; now , Lucia , will you take your old father 's word when he tells you solemnly that Charles has loved you ever since he came from college ? '' 
`` Hold your tongue , sir , if you please -- Lucia , answer for yourself . '' 
`` My gratitude will '' -- `` Now Lucia you are at your old tricks again ; I tell you I wont hear a word about that infernal gratitude . '' 
`` Lucia , '' said Charles . 
`` Charles , '' said Lucia , and gave him her hand -- `` You shall know my feelings when it will be my duty to disguise nothing from you . '' 
Goshawk called that morning as early as fashionable hours would permit , to take the first opportunity of enforcing his attractions on Lucia , in Highfield 's absence . 
Goshawk soon got to the bottom of the matter ; which he forthwith communicated to the azure coterie at Miss Appleby 's , each of whom made a famous speech on the occasion , and voted Lucia a Goth . 
