He began to perceive himself in the wrong , and surlily muttered , Why , if you must know , he is gone to Mr. Ormond 's . 
And where lived Mr. Ormond ? 
Her project was not to be thwarted by slight impediments , and she forthwith proceeded to Ormond 's dwelling . 
Who was this Ormond ? 
Are they united by union of designs and sympathy of character , or is this stranger a new subject on whom Craig is practising his arts ? 
Onleaving Mr. Ormond 's house , Constance was met by that gentleman . 
Being aware of this or similar accidents , he had constructed and related on a previous occasion to Ormond , a story suitable to his purpose . 
I am sorry 't is not in my power to help the poor girl . 
He had been introduced to Ormond under the most favorable auspices . 
Ormond read the letter which his companion presented to him on this occasion . 
The papers which Craig had formerly permitted him to inspect , had made him familiar with her hand-writing . 
The penmanship was , indeed , similar , yet this was written in a spirit not quite congenial with that which had dictated her letters to her lover . 
This , Mr. Ormond had predetermined to do . 
He was always willing , when he conferred benefits , to conceal the author . 
He was not displeased when gratitude was misplaced , and readily allowed his instruments to act as if they were principals . 
He questioned not the veracity of Craig , and was , therefore , desirous to free him from the molestation that was threatened in the way which had been prescribed . 
She abridged her visit on her father 's account , and parted from her new friend just early enough to avoid meeting with Ormond , who entered the house a few minutes after she had left it . 
I should like to have heard your opinion of a face that has just left us . 
It was easy for Ormond to perceive that this was the same person of whom he already had some knowledge -- but there were some particulars in the narrative that excited surprise . 
A note had been received from Craig , at the first visit in the evening , and this note was for no more than fifty dollars . 
I knowno task more arduous than a just delineation of the character of Ormond . 
Ormond was , of all mankind , the being most difficult and most deserving to be studied . 
My knowledge is far from being absolute , but I am conscious of a kind of duty , first to my friend , and secondly to mankind , to impart the knowledge I possess . 
No one could entertain loftier conceptions of human capacity than Ormond , but he carefully distinguished between men , in the abstract , and men as they are . 
The former were beings to be impelled , by the breath of accident , in a right or a wrong road , but whatever direction they should receive , it was the property of their nature to persist in it . 
Ormond was , for the most part , governed , like others , by the influences of education and present circumstances . 
His income was large , and he managed it nearly on the same principles as other men . 
He thought himself entitled to all the splendour and ease which it would purchase , but his taste was claborate and correct . 
He gratified his love of the beautiful , because the sensations it afforded were pleasing , but made no sacrifices to the love of distinction . 
He gave no expensive entertainments for the sake of exciting the admiration of stupid gazers , or the flattery or envy of those who shared them . 
The garb of his attendants was fashioned after the model suggested by his imagination , and not in compliance with the dictates of custom . 
He treated with systematic negligence , the ettiquette that regulates the intercourse of persons of a certain class . 
He , every where , acted , in this respect , as if he were alone , or among familiar associates . 
The very appellations of Sir , and Madam , and Mister , were , in his apprehension , servile and ridiculous , and as custom or law had annexed no penalty to the neglect of these , he conformed to his own opinions . 
To level himself with others was an act of condescension and not of arrogance . 
It was requisite to descend rather than to rise ; a task the most easy , if we regard the obstacles flowing from the prejudice of mankind , but far most difficult , if the motives of the agent be considered . 
A subtlety much inferior to Ormond 's would suffice to recommend this mode of action . 
But since they were in the perpetual use of stratagems and artifices , it was allowable , he thought , to wield the same arms . 
It was easy to perceive , however , that this practice was recommended to him by other considerations . 
It enabled him to gain access , as if by supernatural means , to the privacy of others , and baffle their profoundest contrivances to hide themselves from his view . 
It was besides an art , in which , as in others , every accession of skill , was a source of new gratification . 
A mind of uncommon energy like Ormond 's , which had occupied a wide sphere of action , and which could not fail of confederating its efforts with those of minds like itself , must have given birth to innumerable incidents , not unworthy to be exhibited by the most eloquent historian . 
It arose from these circumstanees , that no one was more impenetrable than Ormond , though no one 's real character seemed more easily discerned . 
Her understanding bore no disadvantageous comparison with that of the majority of her sex , but when placed in competition with that of some eminent females or of Ormond , it was exposed to the risque of contempt . 
This lady and Ormond were exposed to mutual examination . 
During a certain interval Ormond 's visits were frequent , and she insensibly contracted for him somewhat more than reverence . 
In the declaration of his opinions he was never withheld by scruples of decorum , or a selfish regard to his own interest . 
His matrimonial tenets were harsh and repulsive . 
A woman of keener penetration would have predicted from them , the disappointment of her wishes , but Helena 's mind was uninnured to the discussion of logical points and the tracing of remote consequences . 
It is not enough to say that his reasonings failed to convince her : The combined influence of passion and an unenlightened understanding hindered her from fully comprehending them . 
All she gathered was a vague conception of something magnificent and vast in his character . 
She was compelled to accept the invitations of a kinswoman , and live , in some sort , a life of dependance . 
These events happened in the absence of Ormond . 
He saw the extent of this misfortune to a woman of Helena 's character , but knew not in what manner it might be effectually obviated . 
Her fancy was occupied with the image of Ormond , and her tears were flowing at the thought of their eternal separation , when he entered softly and unperceived by her . 
So critical an interview could not fail of unveiling the true state of the lady 's heart . 
Ormond 's suspicions were excited , and these suspicions speedily led to an explanation . 
Ormond retired to ruminate on this discovery . 
His feelings relative to Helena did not contradict his principles , yet the image which had formerly been exquisite in loveliness , had now suddenly gained unspeakable attractions . 
This discovery had set the question in a new light . 
This flows from the general and incurable imperfection of the female character . 
No woman can possess that worth which would induce me to enter into this contract , and bind myself , without power of revoking the decree , to her society . 
It can not be supposed that Ormond , in stating this proposal , acted with all the impartiality that he pretended ; that he did not employ falacious exaggerations and ambiguous expedients ; that he did not seize every opportunity of triumphing over her weakness , and building his success rather on the illusions of her heart than the convictions of her understanding . 
His conclusions were specious but delusive , and were not uninfluenced by improper byasses ; but of this he himself was scarcely conscious , and it must be , at least , admitted that he acted with serupulous sincerity . 
An uncommon degree of skill was required to introduce this topic so as to avoid the imputation of an insult . 
No doubt , the irksomeness of her present situation , the allurements of luxury and ease , which Ormond had to bestow , and the revival of her ancient independance and security , had some share in dictating her assent . 
She possessed all the means of solitary amusement , and frequently enjoyed the company of Ormond . 
Ormond perceived this change , not without uneasiness . 
The softness of her temper and her attachment to him , would , at his bidding , restore her to vivacity and ease , but the illumination seldom endured longer than his presence , and the novelty of some amusement which he had furnished her . 
At his next visit , perhaps , he would find that a new task awaited him . 
She indulged herself in no recriminations or invectives . 
She could not complain that her lover had deceived her . 
She had voluntarily and deliberately accepted the conditions prescribed . 
Yes ; provided that change was equally agreeable to Ormond , and should be seriously proposed by him , of this she had no hope . 
As long as his accents rung in her ears , she even doubted whether it were to be wished . 
At any rate , it was impossible to gain his approbation to it . 
It was better than the cessation of all intercourse , yet her heart was a stranger to all permanent tranquility . 
In company with Ormond her heart was perfectly unveiled . 
He was her divinity to whom every sentiment was visible , and to whom she spontaneously uttered what she thought , because the employment was pleasing ; because he listened with apparent satisfaction ; and because , in fine , it was the same thing to speak and to think in his presence . 
There was no inducement to conceal from him the most evanescent and fugitive ideas . 
Ormond was not an inattentive or indifferent spectator of those appearances . 
She shrunk aghast from her own reproaches and the contumelies of the world . 
This morbid sensibility he had endeavoured to cure , but hitherto in vain . 
Her spirits had formerly been gay , but her gaiety was capable of yielding place to soul-ravishing and solemn tenderness . 
In answer to his enquiries , she , for the most part , described sensations that were gone , and which she flattered himself and him would never return ; but this hope was always doomed to disappointment . 
Solitude infalibly conjured up the ghost which had been laid , and it was plain that argument was no adequate remedy for this disease . 
Such were not Ormond 's modes of thinking . 
The terms of this contract were , in his eyes , iniquitous and absurd . 
He could not think with patience of a promise which no time could annull , which pretended to ascertain contingencies and regulate the future . 
To forego the liberty of chusing his companion , and bind himself to associate with one whom he despised , to raise to his own level one whom nature had irretreavably degraded ; to avow , and persist in his adherence to a falsehood , palpable and loathsome to his understanding ; to affirm that he was blind , when in full possession of his senses ; to shut his eyes and grope in the dark , and call upon the compassion of mankind on his infirmity , when his organs were , in no degree , impaired , and the scene around him was luminous and beautiful , was an height of infatuation that he could never attain . 
Why should he take a laborious circuit to reach a point which , when attained , was trivial , and to which reason had pointed out a road short and direct ? 
One whose mind was equal and not superior to the cogent apprehension and punctual performance of his will . 
One whose character was squared , with mathematical exactness , to his situation . 
Helena , with all her faults , did not merit to be regarded in this light . 
Ormond was an accurate judge of the proficiency of Hellen , and of the felicity with which these accomplishments were suited to her character . 
Ormond had often amused his fancy with calling up images of excellence in this art . 
He saw no bounds to the influence of habit , in augmenting the speed and multiplying the divisions of muscular motion . 
The fingers , by their form and size , were qualified to outrun and elude the most vigilant eye . 
Her harp and clavichord supplied her with endless combinations , and these in the opinion of Ormond were not inferior to the happiest exertions of Handel and Arne . 
Ormond was occupied with schemes of a rugged and arduous nature . 
Helena could lay no claim to be exalted to this rank . 
That one destitute of this claim should enjoy the privileges of his wife , was still a supposition truly monstrous : Yet the image of Helena , fondly loving him , and a model as he conceived of tenderness and constancy , devoured by secret remorse , and pursued by the scorn of mankind ; a mark for slander to shoot at , and an outcast of society , did not visit his meditations in vain . 
Ormond viewed every thing with the accuracy of an artist , and carried away with him a catalogue of every thing visible . 
The faded form of Mr. Dudley that still retained its dignity , the sedateness , graceful condescension and personal elegance of Constantia , were new to the apprehension of Ormond . 
When he had finished his task , he retired , but returning in a quarter of an hour , he presented a letter to the young lady . 
He behaved as if by no means desirous of eluding her interrogatories , and when she desired him to stay , readily complied . 
The letter , unsigned and unsuperscribed , was to this effect . 
`` The writer of this is acquainted with the transaction between Thomas Craig and Mr. Dudley . 
Ormond had calculated the amount of what would be necessary for the annual subsistence of this family , on the present frugal plan . 
The bearer displayed a prompt and talkative disposition . 
When questioned by Constantia , he answered that the gentleman had forbidden him to mention his name or the place where he lived . 
By this mode , Ormond had effectually concealed himself . 
The manner in which this lady had sustained so cruel a reverse of fortune , the cheerfulness with which she appeared to forego all the gratifications of affluence ; the skill with which she selected her path of humble industry , and the steadiness with which she pursued it , were proofs of a moral constitution , from which he supposed the female sex to be debarred . 
The comparison was obvious between Constantia and Hellen , and the result was by no means advantageous to the latter . 
The wishes of Ormond , as soon as they became known , became hers . 
This relation exhibited the character of Ormond in a very uncommon light . 
He had fashioned his treatment of Helena on sullen and ferocious principles . 
Yet he was able , it seemed , to mould her , by means of them , nearly into the creature that he wished . 
She knew too little of the man justly to estimate his character . 
It remained to be ascertained whether his purposes were consistent and upright , or were those of a villain and betrayer . 
Meanwhile what was to be done by Hellena ? 
Marriage had been refused on plausible pretences . 
If Ormond refuse his concurrence , there is absolutely an end to hope . 
At least what influence was it possible for her to obtain over them ? 
What mode of subsistence should she adopt ? 
There did not want reasons why Ormond should finally embrace it . 
Her unhappiness could not but be visible to Ormond . 
Was it impossible that , in time , he should reason himself into a spontaneous adoption of this scheme ? 
This , indeed , was a slender foundation for hope , but there was no other on which she could build . 
While absent from Ormond , or listening to her friend 's remonstrances , the deplorableness of her condition , arose in its most disastrous hues , before her imagination . 
His voice dissipated every inqnietude . 
She was destitute of all confidence in her own exertions . 
She revered , but , believed herself incapable to emulate the magnanimity of her monitor . 
The reasonings that are so powerful in my eyes , would they be trivial and futile in those of Ormond ? 
Ormond was a stranger to her . 
Her personal attachment to Helena was all that she could plead in excuse for taking part in her concerns . 
A blunt and irregular character like Ormond 's , might throw an air of ridicule over the scene . 
And who was Ormond , that his eye should inspire terror ? 
Nay , a mother or sister might not be debarred from it . 
Was Ormond capable of such behaviour ? 
Such a man is not to be sought as the husband of Helena ; but this surely is a different being . 
Her business being of some moment , she wishes him to name an hour when most disengaged . '' 
An answer was immediately returned , that at three o'clock , in the afternoon , he should be glad to see her . 
This message produced no small surprise in Ormond . 
He had not withdrawn his notice from Constance , and had marked , with curiosity and approbation , the progress of the connexion between the two women . 
The impressions which he had received from the report of Hellen , were not dissimilar to those which Constance had imbibed , from the same quarter , respecting himself ; but he gathered from them no suspicion of the purpose of a visit . 
Ormond 's conjecture was partly right . 
She began with naming Craig , as one known to Ormond , and desired to be informed of his place of abode . 
I am acquainted with the whole affair between Craig and your family . 
In saying this , Ormond intended that his looks and emphasis should convey his full meaning . 
In the style of her comments he saw none of those corroborating symptoms that he expected . 
He has been very liberal of his confidence . 
Confession is a token of penitence , but , alas ! 
I fear he has deceived you . 
To be sincere was doubtless his true interest , but he is too much in the habit of judging superficially . 
If he has told you all , there is , indeed , no need of explanation . 
This visit is , in that case , sufficiently accounted for . 
Take my word for it , he is totally unworthy of you . 
If you have not made that discovery yourself , I have made it for you . 
I care little for consequences . 
When she had finished , Ormond spent a moment in ruminating . 
And yet I received a letter : -- but that may likewise be a forgery . 
By my soul , continued he , in a tone that had more of satisfaction than disappointment in it , this fellow was an adept at his trade . 
I do not repine . 
-- Stop , cried Ormond , rising and touching the bell , nothing like time to make a conquest of embarrassment . 
Nay , said he , what is it that seares you away ? 
You must have fasted long when it comes to that . 
During this address , the gaiety of Ormond disappeared . 
I have often been deceived in my judgment of characters . 
Perhaps I do not comprehend your 's : Yet it is not little that I have heard respecting you . 
No persuasion , said Ormond , after recovering from a fit of thoughtfulness , is needful for this end ; I only want to be convinced . 
All punctilios were trampled under foot , by the impetuosity of Ormond . 
Ormond had not deceived her expectations , but hearsay and personal examination , however uniform their testimony may be , produce a very different impression . 
What , but the fascination of his senses is it , that ties Ormond to Hellen . 
The image of Ormond occupied the chief place in her fancy , and was endowed with attractive and venerable qualities . 
To this might justly be imputed , some part of that reluctance which she now felt to give Ormond to Hellen . 
On the evening of the next day , Ormond entered with careless abruptness , Constantia 's sitting apartment . 
Ormond addressed Mr. Dudley with the familiarity of an old acquaintance . 
In his easiest and sprightliest sallies were tokens of a mind habituated to profound and extensive views . 
His associations were formed on a comprehensive scale . 
He pretended to nothing , and studied the concealments of ambiguity more in reality than in appearance . 
Constantia , however , discovered a sufficient resemblance between their theories of virtue and duty . 
Constantia delighted her companion by the facility with which she entered into his meaning , the sagacity she displayed in drawing out his hints , circumscribing his conjectures , and thwarting or qualifying his maxims . 
The scene was generally replete with ardour and contention , and yet the impression left on the mind of Ormond was full of harmony . 
Her discourse tended to rouse him from his lethargy , to furnish him with powerful excitements , and the time spent in her company , seemed like a doubling of existence . 
The comparison could not but suggest itself , between this scene and that exhibited by Hellen . 
It supplied him with no new ideas , and hindered him , by the lulling sensations it inspired , from profiting by his former acquisitions . 
Helena was beautiful . 
Apply the scale , and not a member was found inelegantly disposed , or negligently moulded . 
Not a curve that was blemished by an angle or ruffled by asperities . 
The interviews of Ormond and Constance grew more frequent . 
He was suddently changed , from being one of the calumniators of the female sex , to one of its warmest eulogists . 
This was a point on which Constantia had ever been a vigorous disputant , but her arguments , in their direct tendency , would never have made a convert of this man . 
Ormond was partly right . 
This circumstance was realized in the history of Ormond . 
He was not aware of the effects produced by this change in his demeanour , till informed of it by herself . 
One evening he displayed symptoms of uncommon dissatisfaction . 
Her tenderness was unable to dispel it . 
This afforded an hint , which she drew forth into one of her enchanting ditties . 
Habit had almost conferred upon her the power of spontaneous poesy , and while she pressed his forehead to her bosom , she warbled forth a strain airy and exuberant in numbers , tender and exstatic in its imagery . 
Here her voice sunk , and the line terminated in a sigh . 
Her museful ardours were chilled by the looks of Ormond . 
At length she pathetically complained of his coldness , and insinuated her suspicions , that his affection was transferred to another object . 
He started from her embrace , and after two or three turns across the room , he stood before her . 
His large eyes were steadfastly fixed upon her face . 
The love , poor as it was , that I had for thee , is gone . 
Henceforth thou art desolate indeed . 
Ormond traversed the room uneasily . 
I know it will be sleepless and full of agony ; but the sentence can not be recalled . 
Ormond entered , and found Constantia alone . 
An interview of this kind was seldom enjoyed , though earnestly wished for by Constantia , who was eager to renew the subject of her first conversation with Ormond . 
There was more than usual solemnity in Ormond 's demeanour . 
They did not , however , divert her from her purpose . 
This address was heard by Ormond without surprise ; but his countenance betrayed the accuteness of his feelings . 
Most egregiously are you deceived . 
Such is the line with which human capacity presumes to fathom futurity . 
With all your discernment , you do not see that marriage would effectually destroy me . 
At these words , Ormond forsook his seat , and advanced close up to Constantia . 
It would be presumption in me to decide . 
And now , say truly , are you willing to accept Ormond with all his faults . 
This discovery will only make you more strenuously the friend of Hellen . 
No , exclaimed Ormond . 
Ormond was penetrated with these reproaches . 
They persuaded him for a moment that his deed was wrong ; that he had not unfolded his intentions to Helena , with a suitable degree of gentleness and caution . 
Little more was said on this occasion . 
Constantia exhorted him , in the most earnest and pathetic manner , to return and recant , or extenuate his former declarations . 
Why , said Ormond , do you suppose that she is sick ? 
Ormond had conceived himself fortified against every disaster . 
Now , however , he found that his tremors would not be stilled . 
He knocked , but no answer was returned . 
He opened , advanced to the bed side , and drew back the curtains . 
He shrunk from the spectacle that presented itself -- Was this the Hellen , that a few hours before , was blithsome with health and radiant with beauty ! 
The habits of Ormond tended to obscure the appearances , if not to deaden the emotions of sorrow . 
He was so much accustomed to the frustration of well intended efforts , and confided so much in his own integrity , that he was not easily disconcerted . 
He had merely to advert , on this occasion , to the tumultuous state of his feelings , in order to banish their confusion and restore himself to calm . 
Well , said he , as he dropped the curtain and turned towards another part of the room , this , without doubt , is a rueful spectacle : Can it be helped ? 
If she were fool enough to die , I am not fool enough to follow her . 
I am determined to live , and be happy notwithstanding . 
What is impossible to undo , might be easily prevented . 
Could Ormond be so stern and so terrible ? 
This letter was calculated to make a deeper impression on Ormond , than even the sight of Hellen 's corpse . 
He was obliged to exert all his energies , to enable him to support the remembrance . 
The task was , of course , rendered easier by time . 
It was immediately requisite to attend to the disposal of the corpse . 
Helena 's next neighbour , was an old lady , whose scruples made her shun all direct intercourse with this unhappy girl ; yet she had performed many acts of neighbourly kindness . 
She readily obeyed the summons of Ormond , on this occasion , to take charge of affairs , till another should assume it . 
Ormond returned home , and sent the following note to Constance . 
Till this was accomplished , Ormond could not prevail upon himself to appear upon the stage . 
Among the terms of his contract with Helena , Ormond had voluntarily inserted the exclusive property of an house and its furniture in this city , with funds adequate to her plentiful maintainance . 
To this he had afterwards added a rural retreat , in the midst of spacious and well cultivated fields , three miles from Perth-Amboy , and seated on the right bank of the sound . 
This circumstance , in conjunction with the love , which she bore to Constance , had suggested to Hellen a scheme , which her want of foresight would , in different circumstances , have occasioned her to overlook . 
This had taken place before Ormond and Constance had been introduced to each other . 
After this event , Ormond had sometimes been employed in contriving means for securing to his new friend and her father , a subsistence , more certain than the will of Helena could afford . 
Her death he considered as an event equally remote and undesirable . 
This event , however unexpectedly , had now happened , and precluded the necessity of further consideration on this head . 
He was one of the numerous agents and dependants of Ormond , and had been engaged to abdicate his native country for purposes widely remote from his profession . 
The first use that ws made of him , was to introduce him to Mr. Dudley . 
The diseased organs were critically examined , and the patient was , with considerable difficulty , prevailed upon to undergo the necessary operation . 
Whentime had somewhat mitigated the memory of the late disaster , the intercourse between Ormond and Constance was renewed . 
The lady did not overlook her obligations to her friend : It was to him that she was indebted for her father 's restoration to sight , and to whom both owed , essentially , though indirectly , their present affluence . 
I have already said , that Ormond was engaged in schemes of an arduous and elevated nature . 
In general discourse , it was proper to maintain a uniform silence respecting these , not only because they involved principles and views , remote from vulgar apprehension , but because their success , in some measure , depended on their secrecy . 
He could not give a stronger proof of his confidence in the sagacity and steadiness of Constance than he now gave , by imparting to her his schemes , and requesting her advice and assistance in the progress of them . 
Ormond aspired to nothing more ardently than to hold the reins of opinion . 
He desired that his guidance should controul their steps , but that his agency , when most effectual , should be least suspected . 
If he were solicitous to govern the thoughts of Constantia , or to regulate her condition , the mode which he pursued had hitherto been admirably conducive to that end . 
To have found her friendless and indigent , accorded , with the most fortunate exactness , with his views . 
That she should have descended to this depth , from a prosperous height , and therefore be a stranger to the torpor which attends hereditary poverty , and be qualified rightly to estimate , and use the competence to which , by his means , she was now restored , was all that his providence would have prescribed . 
The novelty and grandeur of his schemes could not fail to transport a mind , ardent and capacious , as that of Constance . 
By piece-meal and imperfect disclosures , her curiosity was kept alive . 
I have described Ormond as having contracted a passion for Constance . 
This passion certainly existed in his heart , but it must not be conceived to be immutable , or to operate independently of all those impulses and habits which time had interwoven in his character . 
This arose not only from the talents and address of Ormond , but from the community of sentiment , which already existed between them . 
If was otherwise with Ormond . 
The universe was to him , a series of events , connected by an undesigning and inscrutable necessity , and an assemblage of forms , to which no begining or end can be conceived . 
He deemed it prudent , however , to disguise sentiments , which , if unfolded in their full force , would wear to her the appearance of insanity : But he saw and was eager to improve the advantage , which his anti-nuptial creed derived from the unsettled state of her opinions . 
He was not unaware , likewise , of the auspicious and indispensible co-operation of love . 
If this advocate were wanting in her bosom , all his efforts would be in vain . 
If this pleader were engaged in his behalf , he entertained no doubts of his ultimate success . 
He conceived that her present situation , all whose comforts were the fruits of his beneficence , and which afforded her no other subject of contemplation than himself , was as favorable as possible to the growth of this passion . 
Constance was acquainted with his wishes . 
Her own sensations and the character of Ormond , were , therefore , scrutinized with suspicious attention . 
Marriage could be justified in her eyes , only by community of affections and opinions . 
She might love without the sanction of her judgment , but while destitute of that sanction , she would never suffer it to sway her conduct . 
Ormond was imperfectly known . 
What knowledge she had gained , flowed chiefly from his own lips , and was therefore unattended with certainty . 
What portion of deceit or disguise was mixed with his conversation , could be known , only by witnessing his actions with her own eyes , and comparing his testimony with that of others . 
He had embraced a multitude of opinions , which appeared to her erroneous . 
Till these were rectified , and their conclusions were made to correspond , wedlock was improper . 
Some of these obscurities might be dispelled , and some of these discords be resolved into harmony by time . 
Mr. Dudley discovered , without her assistance , the views of Ormond . 
His daughter 's happiness was blended with his own . 
He lived , but in the consciousness of her tranquility . 
Her image was seldom absent from his eyes , and never from his thoughts . 
The emotions which it excited , sprung but in part from the relationship of father . 
It was gratitude and veneration , which she claimed from him , and which filled him with rapture . 
He ruminated deeply on the character of Ormond . 
The political and anti-theological tenets of this man , were regarded , not merely with disapprobation , but antipathy . 
Ormond 's peculiarities of sentiment , excited no impatience , as long as he was regarded merely as a visitant . 
It was only as one claiming to posses his daughter , that his presence excited in Mr. Dudley , trepidation and loathing . 
Ormond was unacquainted with what was passing in the mind of Mr. Dudley . 
The latter conceived his own benefactor and his daughter 's friend , to be entitled to the most scrupulous and affable urbanity . 
Ormond and he seldom met : Mr. Dudley , as soon as his sight was perfectly retrieved , betook himself with eagerness to painting , an amusement , which his late privations had only contributed to endear to him . 
At the end of this period , some engagement obliged Ormond to leave the city . 
These were frequently received , and were models of that energy of style , which results from simplicity of structure , from picturesque epithets , and from the compression of much meaning into few words . 
His narratives were unequaled for rapidity and comprehensiveness . 
Domesticand studious occupations did not wholly engross the attention of Constance . 
Hitherto she had met with no one , entitled to an uncommon portion of regard , or worthy to supply the place of the friend of her infancy . 
Here she was treated with flattering distinctions , and enjoyed opportunities of extending as far as she pleased , her connections with the gay and opulent . 
To this she felt herself by no means inclined , and her life was still eminently distinguished by love of privacy , and habits of seclusion . 
One morning , feeling an indisposition to abstraction , she determined to drop in , for an hour , on Mrs. Melbourne . 
Finding Mrs. Melbourne 's parlour unoccupied , she proceeded unceremoniously , to an apartment on the second floor , where that lady was accustomed to sit . 
She entered , but this room was likewise empty . 
Ormond 's narratives had carried her beyond the Missisippi , and into the deserts of Siberia . 
Her new friend had led her back to the civilized world , and pourtrayed the other half of the species . 
It would snatch her from the odious pursuit of Ormond , and by a variety of objects and adventures , efface from her mind any impression which his dangerous artifices might have made upon it . 
Every argument adapted to influence her choice , was employed . 
He justly conceived that the only obstacle to her adoption of it , related to Ormond . 
What could be expected from a man , half of whose life had been spent at the head of a band of Cassacks , spreading devastation in the regions of the Danube , and supporting by flagitius intrigues , the tyranny of Catharine , and the other half in traversing inhospitable countries , and extinguishing what remained of clemency and justice , by intercourse with savages ? 
It was admitted that his energies were great , but misdirected , and that to restore them to the guidance of truth , was not in itself impossible , but it was so with relation to any power that she possessed . 
She knew likewise the conditions of their union . 
She must go with him to some corner of the world , where his boasted system was established . 
What was the road to it , he had carefully concealed , but it was evident that it lay beyond the precincts of civilized existence . 
Whatever were her ultimate decision , it was at least proper to delay it . 
To all the general motives for deferring her choice , the conduct of Ormond superadded the weightiest . 
The name of Ormond , was , of course , frequently repeated by my friend : His features and deportment were described : Her meditations and resolutions , with regard to him , fully disclosed . 
Besides this , the properties of Ormond were of too mysterious a nature , to make him worthy of acceptance . 
He had dwelt , in his conversations with Constantia , sparingly on his own concerns . 
Yet he did not hide from her , that he had been left in early youth , to his own guidance : That he had embraced , when almost a child , the trade of arms : That he had found service and promotion in the armies of Potemkin and Romanzow : That he had executed secret and diplomatic functions , at Constantinople and Berlin : That , in the latter city , he had met with schemers and reasoners , who aimed at the new-modelling of the world , and the subversion of all that has hitherto been conceived elementary and fundamental , in the constitution of man and of government : that some of those reformers had secretly united , to break down the military and monarchical fabric of German policy : That others , more wisely , had devoted their secret efforts , not to overturn , but to build : That , for this end , they embraced an exploring and colonizing project : That he had allied himself to these , and , for the promotion of their projects , had spent six years of his life , in journeys by sea and land , in tracts unfrequented , till then , by any European . 
It was agreed that I should visit and inspect my friend 's estate , in Jersey , while she remained in her present abode , to put an end to the views and expectations of Ormond , and to make preparation for her voyage . 
The time prefixed by Ormond for the termination of his absence , had nearly arrived . 
Her heart drooped as she revolved the necessity of disuniting their fates ; but that this disunion was proper , could not admit of doubt . 
This letter she immediately sat down to write . 
Just then the door opened , and Ormond entered the apartment . 
She was somewhat , and for a moment , startled by this abrupt and unlooked for entrance . 
Folding his hands on his breast , he stalked to the window , and looked up at the moon . 
Presently he withdrew his gaze from this object , and fixed them upon Constance . 
He spoke , but his words were produced by a kind of effort : Fit emblem , he exclaimed , of human versatility ! 
One impediment is gone . 
I hoped it was the only one , but no : The removal of that merely made room for another . 
Well : Fate will interplace a third . 
He listened to her , but his eyes , fixed upon her 's , and his solemnity of aspect were immoveable . 
-- As he spoke this , the accents of Ormond gradually augmented in vehemence . 
Her interviews and conversations with me , took place at seasons of general repose , when all doors were fast and avenues shut , in the midst of silence , and in the bosom of retirement . 
The theme of our discourse was , commonly , too sacred for any ears but our own : Disclosures were of too intimate and delicate a nature , for any but a female audience : they were too injurious to the fame and peace of Ormond , for him to be admitted to partake of them : Yet his words implied a full acquaintance with recent events , and with purposes and deliberations , shrowded , as we imagined , in impenetrable secrecy . 
As soon as Constantia recovered from the confusion of these thoughts , she eagerly questioned him : What do you know ? 
That thy affections and person were due to another ; that intercourse between us was henceforth to cease ; that preparation was making for a voyage to Britain , and that Ormond was to walk to his grave alone ! 
The discovery of a passion , deeper and less curable than she suspected ; the perception of embarrassments and difficulties in the path which she had chosen , that had not previously occurred to her , threw her mind into anxious suspense . 
To part from Ormond was enjoined by every dictate of discretion and duty . 
Every consideration of justice to herself and humanity to Ormond , made it desirable that this interview should be the last . 
In what words this was to be done , was the subject of momentary deliberation . 
Here Ormond fixed more significant eyes upon her . 
Saying this , Ormond withdrew . 
His words were always accompanied with gestures and looks , and tones , that fastened the attention of the hearer , but the terms of his present discourse , afforded , independently of gesticulation and utterance , sufficient motives to attention and remembrance . 
He was gone , but his image was contemplated by Constance : His words still rung in her ears . 
Meanings , of which she and her friend alone were conscious , were discovered by Ormond , through some other medium than words : Yet that was impossible : A being , unendowed with preternatural attributes , could gain the information which this man possessed , only by the exertion of his senses . 
Had Ormond and her friend met , during the interval that had elapsed , between her separation from the latter , and her meeting with the former ? 
He had given a terrible , but contradictory description , of her destiny . 
An event was to happen , akin to no calamity which she had already endured , disconnected with all which the imagination of man is accustomed to deprecate , capable of urging her to suicide , and yet of a kind , which left it undecided , whether she would regard it with indifference . 
I had always believed the character and machinations of Ormond , to be worthy of caution and fear . 
We can not hide our actions and thoughts , from one of powerful sagacity , whom the detection sufficiently interests , to make him use all the methods of detection in his power . 
All that duty enjoins , is to design and to execute nothing , which may not be approved by a divine and omniscient observer . 
That Ormond was apprized of all that had passed , I by no means inferred from the tenour of his conversation with Constantia , nor , if this had been incontestably proved , should I have experienced any trepidation or anxiety on that account . 
His obscure and indirect menaces of evil , were of more importance . 
Either he intended some fatal mischief , and was willing to torment her by fears , while he concealed from her the nature of her danger , that he might hinder her from guarding her safety , by suitable precautions ; or , being hopeless of rendering her propitious to his wishes , his malice was satisfied with leaving her a legacy of apprehension and doubt . 
Constantia 's unacquaintance with the doctrines of that school , in which Ormond was probably instructed , led her to regard the conduct of this man , with more curiosity and wonder , than fear . 
I do not believe myself destitute of courage . 
Rightly to estimate the danger and encounter it with firmness , are worthy of a rational being ; but to place our security in thoughtlessness and blindness , is only less ignoble than cowardice . 
I could not overlook , in the recent conversation with Constance , Ormond 's allusion to her murdered father . 
It was possible that the nature of this death , had been accidentally imparted to him ; but it was likewise possible , that his was the knowledge of one who performed the act . 
The enormity of this deed , appeared by no means incongruous with the sentiments of Ormond . 
Human life is momentous or trivial in our eyes , according to the course which our habits and opinions have taken . 
A combat ensued , in which the first claimant ran his antagonist through the body . 
This youth was Ormond ; and such is a specimen of his exploits , during a military career of eight years , in a warfare the most savage and implacable , and , at the same time , the most iniquitous and wanton which history records . 
With passions and habits like these , the life of another was a trifling sacrifice to vengeance or impatience . 
How Mr. Dudley had excited the resentment of Ormond , by what means the assassin had accomplished his intention , without awakening alarm or incurring suspicion , it was not for me to discover . 
The inextricability of human events , the imperviousness of cunning , and the obduracy of malice , I had frequent occasions to remark . 
If there were such a retreat , it would scarcely avail her against a foe , circumspect and subtle as Ormond . 
No privation was endured with more impatience than this ; but , happily , it was purchased by one who left Mr. Dudley 's arrangements unmolested , and who shortly after conveyed it entire to Ormond . 
By him it was finally appropriated to the use of Helena Cleves , and now , by a singular contexture of events , it had reverted to those hands , in which the death of the original proprietor , if no other change had been made in his condition , would have left it . 
In addition to this , the image of Ormond haunted my thoughts , and gave birth to incessant but indefinable fears . 
Since her mysterious conversation with Ormond , he had utterly vanished . 
He gave her no reason to expect a cessation of intercourse . 
He had parted from her with his usual abruptness and informality . 
She did not conceive it incumbent on her to search him out , but she would not have been displeased with an opportunity to discuss with him more fully the motives of her conduct . 
Her occupations , in her present retreat , were , for the most part dictated by caprice or by chance . 
The mildness of Autumn permitted her to ramble , during the day , from one rock and one grove to another . 
The person of Ormond was distinctly recognized . 
An interview , at this dusky and lonely hour , in circumstances so abrupt and unexpected , could not fail to surpize , and , in some degree , to alarm . 
It seemed as if the present moment was to be , in some way , decisive of her fate . 
She had entered the house by the principal door , and this was the only one , at present , unlocked . 
The question that occurred to her , by what means Ormond would gain admittance to her presence , she supposed would be instantly decided . 
After a minute 's pause , she approached the window more nearly , and endeavoured to gain a view of the space before the house . 
It now occurred to her , that this visit had a purpose different from that which she at first conjectured . 
It was easily conceived , that Ormond was unacquainted with her residence at this spot . 
But if an interview with her , were not the purpose of his coming , how should she interpret it ? 
Whileoocupied with these reflections , the light hastily disappeared , and darkness , rendered , by a cloudy atmosphere , uncommonly intense , succeeded . 
She had the means of lighting a lamp , that hung against the wall , but had been too much immersed in thought , to notice the deepening of the gloom . 
Now the presence of Ormond , the unknown purpose that led him hither , and the defencelessness of her condition , inspired her with apprehensions , to which she had hitherto been a stranger . 
Till now , nothing had occurred , that made her enter it with circumspection , or continue in it with reluctance . 
That Ormond 's was the hand that opened , was the first suggestion of her fears . 
Sounds continued , of which no distinct conception could be obtained , or the cause that produced them assigned . 
The floors of every apartment being composed , like the walls and ceiling , of cement , footsteps were rendered almost undistinguishable . 
She considered that Ormond might , indeed , be near , but that he was probably unconscious of her situation . 
He might be acquainted with the place of her retreat , and had come to obtain an interview , with no clandestine or myterious purposes . 
The noises she had heard , had , doubtless , proceeded from the next apartment , but might be produced by some harmless or vagrant creature . 
Omens of evil seemed to be connected with this solitary and dark some abode : Besides , Ormond had unquestionably entered upon this scene . 
The closet had but one door , and this led into the chamber where the sounds had arisen . 
The image that first occurred to her , was that of Ormond . 
She mused upon the possible motives that induced some one thus to act , and upon the connection that might subsist , between her destiny and that of the dead . 
Her meditations , however fruitless , in other respects , could not fail to shew her the propriety of hastening from this spot . 
No serutiny was requisite to inform her , that this was Ormond . 
So , said he , I expected to meet you . 
A light , gleaming from the window , marked you out . 
What , said Constance , with discomposure in her accent , was your motive for seeking me ? 
Have you forgotten , said Ormond , what past at our last interview ? 
Ormond 's deportment was of an unexampled tenor , as well as that evil which he had so ambiguously predicted . 
After a minute 's pause , Constantia recovering a firm tone , said : Mr. Ormond ! 
Your recent deportment but ill accords with your professions of sincerity and plain dealing . 
Ormond was passive , and seemed indisposed to prevent her departure , till she laid her hand upon the lock . 
Must a time and place so suitable , for what remains to be said and done , be neglected or misused ? 
When Ormond began to speak , Constance paused to hearken to him . 
It was readily conceived that to him Ormond alluded , but this was the assassin of her father , and his crime had been detected and punished by Ormond ! 
These images had no other effect than to urge her departure : She again applied her hand to the lock , and said : This scene must not be prolonged . 
Nay , interrupted Ormond , with augmented vehemence , art thou equally devoid of curiosity and justice ? 
She withdrew her hand from the door , and fixed eyes of the deepest anxiety on Ormond ; -- What mean you ? 
said Ormond , I see thou wilt consent to stay . 
There was somewhat in the looks and accents of Ormond , different from former appearances : tokens of an hidden purpose and a smothered meaning , were perceptible : A mixture of the inoffensive and the lawless which added to the loneliness and silence that encompassed her , produced a faultering emotion . 
Hope whispered that this foe was not Ormond . 
He talked not as if he were aware of this obstruction , and yet his seeming acquiescence might have flowed from a knowledge that she had no power to remove beyond his reach . 
He warned her of danger to her life , of which he was her self-appointed rescuer . 
His counsel was to arm her with sufficient caution ; the peril that awaited her was imminent ; this was the time and place of its occurrence , and here she was compelled to remain , till the power that fastened , would condescend to loose the door . 
These were accustomed to be locked , but Ormond had found access , and if all continued fast , it was incontestable that he was the authour of this new impediment . 
The first impulse led her to call for help from without , but the mansion was distant from Laffert 's habitation . 
The steps of Ormond above now gave tokens of his approach . 
Her stifled palpitations allowed her steadfastly to notice him , as he now descended the stair , bearing a lifeless body in his arms . 
Who would imagine that features like those , belonged to an assassin and imposter ? 
Closed eyelids and fallen muscles , could not hide from her lineaments so often seen . 
A pause succeeded , in which she alternately gazed at the countenance of this unfortunate wretch and at Ormond . 
Have I not already told thee that Ormond was his own avenger and thine ? 
Did crimes like these merit a less punishment ? 
And what recompense is due to him whose vigilance pursucd him hither , and made him pay for his offences with his blood ? 
interrupted Ormond . 
The closet , and its canvass-covered wall ; the adjoining house untenanted and shut up -- but this house , though unoccupied , belonged to Ormond ! 
-- Ormond 's solemnity now gave place to a tone of sarcasm and looks of exultation : Poor Constance ! 
Know you not that Ormond was fool enough to set value on the affections of a woman ? 
But here I was the dupe of error . 
A thousand prejudices stood in my way . 
These , provided our intercourse were not obstructed , I hoped to subdue . 
This impulse was followed by the recollection , that her liberty was taken away : That egress from the hall was denied her , and that this restriction might be part of some conspiracy of Ormond , against her life . 
Her force of muscles would avail her nothing , against the superior energy of Ormond . 
Some uncertainty still involved the intentions of Ormond . 
Let me know the full extent of my danger ; why it is that I am hindered from leaving this house , and why this interview was sought . 
She looked at those lineaments of Ormond which evinced his disdain of supplication and inexorable passions . 
That all appeals to his compassion and benevolence would counteract her purpose , since , in the unexampled conformation of this man 's mind , these principles were made subservient to his most flagitious designs . 
Considerations of justice and pity were made , by a fatal perverseness of reasoning , champions and bul warks of his most atrocious mistakes . 
These thoughts rapidly occurred , but the resolution to which they led , was scarcely formed , when Ormond advanced towards her . 
She recoiled a few steps , and , shewing the knife which she held , said : Ormond ! 
replied Ormond , in a tone of contempt : So ! 
Ormond 's disappearance from the scene , contributed but little to my consolation . 
I saw no means of placing the safety of my friend beyond his reach . 
Between different methods of procedure , there was , however , room for choice . 
Her present abode was more hazardous than abode in the city . 
-- In the midst of my own despair , on perceiving the fulfilment of my apprehensions , and what I regarded as the fatal execution of some project of Ormond , I was not insensible to the suggestions of prudence . 
One of them was Ormond . 
The face of the third victim was familiar to my early days . 
It was that of the imposter , whose artifice had torn from Mr. Dudley his peace and fortune . 
By what disastrous and inscrutable fate , a place like this became the scene of such complicated havock , to whom Craig was indebted for his death , what evil had been meditated or inflicted by Ormond , and by what means his project had arrived at this bloody consummation , were topics of wild and fearful conjecture . 
Hope and a closer observation , outrooted , or at least , suspended this opinion . 
O much-erring and unhappy Ormond ! 
The violence of Ormond had been repulsed by equal violence . 
Not to deplore the necessity which had produced this act was impossible ; but , since this necessity existed , it was surely not a deed to be thought upon with lasting horror , or to be allowed to generate remorse . 
Before our voyage was commenced , I endeavoured to procure tidings of the true condition and designs of Ormond . 
Courtland , who has since been at Paris , and who , while there , became confidentially acquainted with Martinette de Beauvais , has communicated facts of an unexpected nature . 
At the period of Ormond 's return to Philadelphia , at which his last interview with Constance , in that city , took place , he visited Martinette . 
He avowed himself to be her brother , and supported his pretentions , by relating the incidents of his early life . 
A separation , at the age of fifteen , and which had lasted for the same number of years , may be supposed to have considerably changed the countenance and figure she had formerly known . 
He possessed a minute acquaintance with her own adventures , but concealed from her the means by which he had procured the knowledge . 
