He warred against rural pleasures , and rustic recreations ; the merry song of the milk-maid was hushed in his domain ; the sound of laughter never echoed within his walls ; he often turned distastefully from the smile of the infant Miriam , now beginning to sport and prattle ; and was only reconciled to the music of the merry minstrels of the morning , by the idea that they were chaunting their spiritual songs . 
`` Alas , Harold '' -- replied the meek , submissive wife -- looking down on little Miriam , who stood wondering at the earnest energy of her father , whose discourse she hardly comprehended -- `` Alas ! 
Susan was overawed , if not convinced , and expressed her submission as follows , pointing to Miriam : `` This is the daughter of my affection , but thou art the husband of my earliest love . 
Susan , too , was filled with wonder , and Miriam , now on the verge of woman-hood , was half-pleased , half-frightened , when the tall feathered redman patted her head and called her Pappoose . 
A young unmarried damsel was a rara avisin this portion of the new world , and Harold was several times offered a hogshead of tobacco for Miriam , by grave old cavaliers , seeking a helpmate for their sons . 
Miriam Habingdon resembled her father in the staid sobriety of his outward deportment , as well as in the deep fervor of his inward feelings , and her mother in her plaintive voice and gentle bearing . 
She was naturally full of poetic feeling ; but both the precepts and example of her father had taught her to limit her enthusiasm to piety alone . 
For aught that appeared otherwise , all her feelings were concentrated in filial duty and profound devotion . 
Her reading had been almost entirely confined to the Bible and books of a serious cast ; and her language had acquired much of that apostolic simplicity which would indeed seem inspiration , since it baffles all attempts at imitation . 
Like her mother , her appearance was not striking at first ; but the oftener she was seen the more she gained on the eye and the heart , even of those who were in some measure steeled by long cherished prejudices . 
Her approaches were slow but sure ; like the bee , she gathered her honey almost imperceptibly , and what she gained , she scarcely ever lost . 
Her voice has already been commemorated , and was so musical that good nurse Mildred solemnly declared that she had rather listen to it than to a sermon ; and Gregory Moth , though he always called her the Crop-ear young lady , more than once assured Master Langley Tyringham , that were he buried under the Polar Sea , the very sound of her voice would melt him , even as a Virginia dog-day . 
Miriam too had wit ; but it was a melancholy wit , which is said to be far more dangerous than a merry one . 
Miriam shrunk from the high spirits and frank deportment of Langley , while he felt chilled , if not repelled , by what he considered the stiff , cold , and distant reception he always received from Miriam . 
He particularly disliked the stiff , starched manners of Harold ; knew little of his wife whom he seldom saw ; and , though sometimes struck with the eloquent simplicity of Miriam 's words , the gentle melody of her voice , and the harmony of her face and person , never failed in the end to be repelled by the staid , sober gravity of her manners . 
If left to himself , or if accident had decreed they should meet no more , it is probable he might never have thought of her again . 
When alone he recurred to the subject again , and after long cogitation as to what special reason his father had to establish this system of non-intercourse , at length came to the conclusion that he was under serious apprehension , that himself and Miriam either had , or were about to fall in love with each other . 
There was something most mischievously titillating in the idea and its consequences ; he thought a good deal about it that night , fell asleep , and for the first time in his life dreamed of Miriam . 
Rights of Authors -- Wisdom of Gregory Moth -- The Author Reminded of One of his Heroines -- Something that May peradventure Give Offence to Nine-tenths of Our Readers -- Little Miriam Habingdon Hunts up an Excitement -- An Accidental Meeting -- A Parting -- Langley Tyringham Calls Names . 
The spinning wheel was not then quite obsolete , and often , yea , every day , though not all day long , would she and Miriam join in the harmonious concert of the spinning wheel . 
Miriam was the genuine representative of a very small class of females , that like a glorious landscape can not be described , because no words can convey an idea of the expression of one , or the cunning dexterity of nature in combining the other . 
These , though they excited a smile in the face of Susan , and sometimes a thrill in the heart of Miriam , were received by Harold with a stiff , discouraging gravity , which , though not expressed in words , was sufficiently intelligible . 
He loved his Maker , but did not seem to love His works ; and when Langley and sometimes Miriam broke forth in admiration of the glories of the setting sun , or the silvery beauty of the rising moon , would check their innocent and happy feelings , by drawing contemptuous contrasts between the eternal omnipotence of the Creator , and the frail duration of all created things . 
Harold became every day more deeply infected with this bitter piety , and both Susan and Miriam in some degree partook of its twilight gloom . 
But Miriam was fortunate about this time in having a new excitement -- a gentle one it is true -- but any excitement was better than none , to one whose whole life was one day so like the other . 
At the expiration of some ten days , or perhaps a fortnight , after the interdict of the Cavalier , she was sitting at the window admiring the setting sun , and the many-colored , ever-changing tints of the river and the skies , which gave forth their brightest hues to the dying day . 
Without being actually engaged in contemplating the past , or anticipating the future , her fancy , like the butterfly among the flowers , was lightly skimming from one to another , without closing its wings , or settling on either . 
In this state of wayward wandering , it all of a sudden occurred to her that she had not seen Langley Tyringham for a great while . 
She did not much like him to be sure , and cared not if she ever saw him again . 
He was too gay and flighty , too headlong and enthusiastic for her taste ; and she had seen him actually drink wine . 
Nay , it was told her by Mildred , who had it from Gregory Moth , that he sometimes danced at balls at the capital , and had on more than one occasion attended a horse race . 
Such a man could be nothing to her ; but still she could not help , somehow or other , wondering a little why he did not call at the house , or meet them in their evening walks , as he used to do once or twice a week . 
In a word , she began to think of Langley Tyringham , and the longer his absence continued , the more she wondered why , until at last her curiosity became quite uncomfortable . 
It was the old story ; what she slighted in possession was valued when lost , and Miriam by degrees became conscious that Master Langley had been a very efficient spoke in the wheel of time . 
He could not for the life of him see any reason why he should be prohibited visiting Miriam , merely because the two old gentlemen differed in politics and religion . 
What this particular reason could be puzzled him sorely , until one evening it suddenly popped into his pericranium , that it must be Miriam , though it is believed this was the first time a reason was ever metamorphosed into a woman . 
Thus it will be perceived that he was continually coupling Miriam and matrimony together , a most dangerous conjunction , worse than that of Virgo and the Twins . 
In this mystical state of mutual sympathy , which is said to be ominous of other mutual affinities , it so happened that Miriam , one balmy twilight in the merry month of May , which , in that genial southern clime is worthy all the raptures of the rascally poets , set forth on a lonely ramble by the river-side . 
A variety of good reasons might be given why she was not accompanied by one or both her parents , as usual , which would fill a page or two very comfortably to the author , and doubtless equally edifying to the reader . 
But , notwithstanding the temptation , we shall content ourselves with stating , positively and unequivocally , that it was decreed by fate that Miriam should be alone that evening . 
It was a charming evening of the sunny south , when the lazy twilight , like some ancient dame picking her way through the increasing obscurity , and sounding the path with stick in hand , lingers long after the setting sun . 
Langley was wondering at the prohibition of his father , and Miriam was wondering why he had ceased his visits . 
It is the proper business of women to begin first , because they are said to be always ready ; and Miriam , seeing Master Langley in all appearance at a loss for words , addressed him in her simple Doric dialect : `` Thou hast been a stranger at our house of late , Master Langley . '' 
The maiden paused a few moments , and though she knew nothing of logic -- having never had the benefit of Gregory Moth 's instructions -- actually achieved a syllogism . 
`` He has not , '' thought she , `` he has not been absent -- he has not been ill -- ergo , he did not wish to see me . '' 
In the meantime , Master Langley had been chopping logic , too , and arrived at a conclusion , that it was equally due to Miriam and himself that he should apprise her of the cause of the abrupt cessation of his visits . 
replied Miriam , sorrowfully , `` well do I know the reason . 
Her face was calm and unruffled , yet touched by an expression of profound sorrow , hallowed by devout resignation . 
Her dark chestnut hair , which was quite anti-Puritan , and would curl in spite of the platform , fell back from her snowy brow as she raised her eyes towards heaven , and Langley , as he gazed on her innocent look , called to mind the pure , unspotted virgins offered up in olden time on the blood-stained altar of persecution . 
He felt too much to speak , and another silence ensued , which was again broken by Miriam . 
`` Nay , Miriam , he did not forbid my seeing you by accident . '' 
His resentment is against your father ; and he is not , I assure you , of a disposition to confound the innocent with -- with -- '' `` With the guilty , '' interrupted Miriam with a sad smile , `` with the guilty , thou wouldst say , after the manner of presumptuous mortals , who make their own principles , yea , often prejudices , the standard for the reason of others , and are not content with freedom themselves unless they can impose bondage on the rest of their fellow creatures . 
There was truth in her voice and her eye as she said this ; Langley was touched deeply as he gazed earnestly in her face and almost thought it beautiful . 
There was a placid and earnest simplicity in all she had said ; a native dignity of manner , a proud humility , that awakened an interest he had never felt before , ardent in disposition , quick in his feelings , and prompt in expressing them , he gently arrested her departure , ontreating her to continue her walk and permit him to accompany her , this she gently but firmly declined ; but finally acquiesced in a compromise , and assented to his accompanying her towards home . 
`` You seem to wish it , '' said she , `` and I at least am not forbidden to meet thee , though I tell the frankly my father does not like thee . '' 
`` I do '' -- what she would have added was suddenly arrested by a slight embarrassment , and she said no more , as they continued their walk slowly , and with frequent pauses in the conversation . 
`` To worship -- but not to love her , '' answered Miriam , with a gentle smile . 
But the enthusiasm is catching , '' said she , checking herself and blushing , `` I beseech thee not to laugh at me . '' 
`` No more of this , sir , '' said Miriam , gravely , `` thou hast twice invoked thy soul to witness for thee . 
He could not at that moment forgive her , and she was suddenly transformed into a prim , starched , common-place Puritan . 
He did not know she was as much of an enthusiast as himself , only in a different way . 
`` Leave me now , '' said she , `` I am at home , and thou must no farther transgress the command of thy father . '' 
Good evening , '' added she , as Langley opened the gate , `` or rather I should say , farewell , for though we live near each other , it may be long before we meet again , to take another pleasant walk together . '' 
`` Think not so , Langley , '' -- she had never called him so before , -- `` it will not be accident if we walk there again at one and the same time . 
He promised , and she added -- `` Farewell , once more -- who knows if we shall ever meet again . 
`` Farewell , gentle Miriam , when I look back on the past , I shall often find you there . '' 
Miriam passed up the lawn , and Langley pursued his way towards home , sometimes belying his heart , by calling her a little canting prude , at others almost revering her piety and singleness of heart . 
Eulogium on the Divine Tobacco Pipe -- A Discussion and a Catastrophe -- The Cavalier grows Peremptory -- A Soliloquy -- The Cavalier for once Agrees in Opinion with the Roundhead -- Miriam Talks like a Simpleton , and Thinks not a whit more Wisely -- Falls Asleep in a Profound Doubt . 
`` With Miriam Habingdon , sir . '' 
I accompanied her to the gate of her father 's lawn , but did not go in . '' 
I must beg of you then , sir , to understand this in future , accident or no accident ; if you see Miriam Habingdon coming towards you , turn about and make tracks as if the old Harry himself were coming . 
If you see her going another way , you must turn short about . '' 
-- said Langley , laughing rather irreverently . 
Langley was content to accede to the arrangement , since he cherished no feeling towards Miriam strong enough to prompt him to resist the will of his father . 
he again asked himself , and again the thought came over him that his father was apprehensive of an attachment between himself and Miriam . 
This set him musing on the probability of such an event ; and in order to weigh the subject dispassionately , he recalled to mind the simple dress and unstudied gracefulness of Miriam ; he dwelt on her piety , which had something poetical in its mode of expression ; her love of flowers , so indicative of a pure taste and delicate sensibility , and her perception of the grandeur and beauty of nature , characteristic of a pious , elevated soul . 
From these , by a very natural transition , his memory and his fancy together , conjured up a vivid and exaggerated picture of her exuberant chestnut hair , which curled about the snow-white cheek , which never glowed , save when her heart beat rapidly , and her large , pensive , penetrating eyes , sometimes in despite of themselves , sparkled of other joys than those of Heaven . 
Miriam stated the simple truth , without hesitation , and without a single tell-tale blush to impeach her veracity , or betray a latent feeling . 
said Miriam . 
`` Miriam , '' replied Harold , `` knowest thou not that the indulgence of the imagination is dangerous to youth ! 
Harold gazed on her awhile in silence . 
He wondered where she learned to feel thus , and to express herself in such glowing terms . 
He forgot she was young , and that her teacher was that same Nature , which inspires the glorious love of song , gives magic to the strains of the musician , and teaches the artist almost to outdo his teacher . 
For a moment or two , he contemplated her with all the proud affection of a parent , but again relapsed into his usual frame of mind . 
`` Dost thou not know , Miriam , '' at length he said , `` that such thoughts and feelings are carnal and wicked , seeing they lead astray from those higher purposes which should be perpetually before our eyes and in our hearts ? 
exclaimed Miriam , then suddenly checking herself , `` I do not consort with him . 
On this occasion he answered Miriam in his usual measured tone without any appearance of passion : `` Thou shalt see the young man no more . 
Miriam , my daughter , wouldst thou mingle thy thoughts , or hold communion with one who has neither sympathy for our wrongs , respect for our faith , or feeling for our sufferings ? 
`` I do not wish it , father , '' answered Miriam somewhat sadly -- `` thy wishes shall be mine . 
Miriam did not sleep in peace . 
The quiet current of her innocent thoughts , which had hitherto flowed along almost without a ripple , or a murmur , was disturbed . 
She thought to herself -- `` Surely the spirit of our faith can not be that of mercy and forgiveness , or my father would not be so bitter against poor Langley . 
Thus she lay for hours , ruminating on love and marriage , mixed up with Langley Tyringham -- a most dangerous concatenation . 
At length she fell asleep , with a weight on her heart , without being able to tell exactly to what cause it was owing ; whether to the sternness of her father , or his antipathy to such a harmless young man . 
Miriam , too , was highly indignant at the backsliding of Langley Tyringham , though she certainly had no right whatever to be angry . 
What was he to her , or she to him -- nothing . 
They were to be strangers in future , and there was no reason in the world why she should care a straw if he got fuddled every day . 
Still she felt angry , as well as sorry . 
It was a great pity , she thought , that so clever a youth should thus throw himself away , by becoming addicted to an odious , beastly vice . 
Above all , when her fancy pictured him engaged in a drunken fight , with Gregory Moth , she turned from him in disgust , and resolved to think of him no more . 
Whether she kept this resolution , will be best known from a perusal of our second volume . 
The danger in which Miriam was placed took precedence , nay , swallowed up all other feelings for the moment , and he thought only of her . 
So young , so pious , so innocent and helpless , he bound himself by a solemn vow she should not perish if he could save her . 
On his departure Harold apprised Susan and Miriam of what he had just heard , his doubts of its truth , and his determination to await the event . 
Susan had long since acquiesced in the supremacy of her husband in all cases not directly compromising her conscience , and the religion of Miriam was that of obedience . 
But his poor wife , who really is a kind , good soul , though a little fanatical -- and little Miriam , who , for one of the elect , is a good sort of a dowdy '' -- Dowdy ! 
The emigrants consisted of Harold , Susan , Miriam , and Mildred -- the affrighted slaves being dispersed in all directions , no one knew whither . 
He then made for a door which opened in the direction of the approaching danger , and in so doing , passed close to Miriam , who had acted the part of a little heroine , during the siege , and who suddenly grasped his arm , as if to detain him . 
He paused at the interruption , and Miriam , as if recollecting herself , snatched away her hand , bent down her eyes , and spoke not a word . 
Come Susan -- come Miriam -- if it please God , we will die together . 
He exchanged a look with Miriam more expressive than words , and all stood ready prepared to sally forth in the last extremity . 
The moment for making a last desperate effort had arrived ; the father and children , the husband and wife , had exchanged a last embrace , and Langley had whispered something in Miriam 's ear that changed her deadly paleness into a ruddy glow ; when , suddenly , a black cloud , which had been approaching unheeded , sent forth a vivid flash , followed by a burst of thunder that seemed to announce the interposition of a higher power . 
Thus Langley and Miriam became inmates of the same home in spite of the stern decision of their fathers ; and thus did what could not be foreseen , baffle all the foresight of these calculating worms . 
In spite of filial duty , Miriam could not help thinking these restrictions unreasonable , as regarded herself , and ungrateful towards those who had opened their house and their hearts to receive them . 
Still , she offered no objection , but as usual acquiesced in his wishes with silent resignation . 
She was obedient , as well from a habit of duty , as from the dictates of conscience . 
The deportment of Harold towards her , though in the main kind and affectionate , was rigid and inflexible in all matters involving what he termed principle . 
He checked the vivacity of her youth , and was intolerant of all those little amusements , or recreations that had for their object merely whiling away the hour , and dissipating that weary listlessness , always the lot of childhood , when in the absence of all capacity to be useful it resorts to trifles for amusements . 
Thus , instead of growing up among the flowers , her early days were passed in the shade of her father 's pious gloom . 
In her infancy , she was never a child , in her youth , she was never young . 
Perhaps it was all for the best , and that this stern discipline prepared her to endure with patience the severe trials she was destined to encounter . 
Though she avoided Langley , as much as possible , without absolute rudeness , strange as it may appear to some , the less she enjoyed his society , the more she thought of him . 
She dwelt on his daring courage in venturing forth to almost certain death , to save the lives of his parents , herparents and herself . 
Had he risked his life for her alone , she could not have been more grateful . 
Nay , her feelings were only the more fervent , when she remembered that those she most cherished on earth were involved in the fate from which he had ventured his life to rescue her . 
Langley remained for weeks pale and languid , and pity allied itself with gratitude -- a most formidable confederacy in the heart of woman . 
However this may be , Langley assured his father , and that with sincerity , that he had not the least intention of making love to Miriam ; whereupon the worthy Cavalier departed , highly satisfied with the wisdom of his precaution . 
It was well , he thought , that he was not in love with Miriam , else he might be tempted to woo her , if only to assert his independence . 
Then by a very natural transition , he recalled to mind the sweet and pious composure , with which she had met the almost certain approach of a horrible death . 
He dwelt on her pale , placid brow , her deep , feeling eye , as it often watched him in his efforts for her defence ; nor did he forget the involuntary eagerness with which she grasped his arm , and suddenly relinquished it , as heretofore related . 
There were certain looks she had directed towards him , while the arrow was extracting from his shoulder , which penetrated deeper than his wound , and made a more lasting impression . 
As to poor Miriam , she is a dear little soul , as innocent as a lamb , and as pious as a saint . 
She follows the faith of her father , as I do that of mine . 
It is true , she sings rather long hymns , but her voice is so sweet , it does my heart good to hear her . 
To be sure , there might be some difficulty about the children . 
Just before the spirit moved the young philosopher to indulge in an evening stroll , that mysterious sympathy , which the reader must already have observed , had unaccountably produced a concert of action , between Langley and the little Crop-ear girl -- had impelled Miriam to put on her primitive bonnet , with the self-same design . 
She had been accustomed to walk abroad at will since the illness of Langley , feeling no apprehension of meeting him , and Harold had indulged her under a like conviction . 
Miriam had also seen him coming towards her , and moved by a similar impulse of duty , diverged a little at first , until she placed herself under shelter of the self-same copse , after which she turned short about , and bent her steps towards the house , on the opposite side of the cover . 
The face of Miriam , naturally pale , and that of Langley rendered so by his late indisposition , both became suddenly flushed at this awkward and unsought meeting . 
`` Delightful , '' echoed Miriam ; and they rung the changes on this head , reiterating the same ideas , if not the same words , until it is believed they scarcely knew what they were saying . 
All on a sudden , however , Miriam changed the subject , and fixing her eyes on his face , said in a voice betokening an interest in the subject -- `` You are very pale , and must be tired with your walk -- let us return . '' 
There was probably something in the tone , manner , or look , which accompanied these words , that caused a slight suffusion on the cheek of Miriam . 
`` None . 
-- answered she , with a deep feeling -- `` yes , by leaving them alone to their fearful apprehensions , awakened by every falling leaf , or whisper of the air ; to feed on their miserable anxieties for your fate -- to a conflict of hopes and fears , that only ends in the certainty of a broken heart . 
cried Langley , deeply moved by her gentle solicitude -- `` would you have me called coward -- tell me , Miriam ? '' 
`` No , '' replied she , firmly -- `` My father is a Christian soldier , and has often told me that courage is the great safeguard of the virtues of man , since without it he may be frightened out of them all , and commit the deepest crimes through the instigation of fear . 
`` Perhaps so , '' said Miriam in a low voice -- `` let us return home . 
Langley made no attempt to detain her , and they turned towards the house , apparently little disposed for further conversation . 
Miriam Sets an Example to all Dutiful Daughters -- Poses Her Mother with a Knotty Question -- Some Prosing about Humdrum Domestic Matters -- A Love Scene between Mildred and Gregory Moth -- Sketch of a Character , and sundry Other Matters . 
It was during one of these journeys there that the accidental meeting recorded in the preceding chapter occurred , and consequently , Miriam , for the present , escaped a lecture for her involuntary transgression . 
Like a dutiful daughter , she , however , immediately disclosed it to Susan ; for her pure and innocent soul never once harbored the idea of concealing any act or thought from her mother . 
She gently chid Miriam for not returning home immediately . 
said Miriam , with perfect simplicity . 
At the last moment Miriam gave her hand to Langley ; he felt a warm tear fall on his , and heard a soft tremulous whisper -- `` Take care of yourself for allour sakes . '' 
During this brief campaign , Miriam and her mother said their prayers and plied the needle or the spinning wheel , while Mistress Tyringham seemed to forget her anxieties for those abroad in kindly cares for those at home . 
Poor little Miriam suffered most , for she had not been so well schooled in the rough discipline of the world , and besides anxiety for her father , had now begun to cherish in secret , and unknown to herself , another feeling , which sometimes overmasters filial love . 
Notwithstanding the simplicity and self-denial which formed the basis of her character , she resembled her father in the depth of his enthusiasm , and the firmness of his resolution . 
She was capable -- nay , she was formed for cherishing the most profound and lasting impressions ; and in the misty softness that seemed to constitute the leading feature of her mind , as it certainly formed its most touching attraction , there was sleeping , as it were , a steady , calm resolution , which , when once formed , and sanctioned by a conviction of right , was capable of resisting temptation , danger , violence and death . 
Her virtues had grown up and been nourished in the solitude of youth , and like the giants of the primeval forest , acquired a strength and maturity never to be equalled by any after growth . 
Had she been wicked , she would have been a monster ; had time and circumstance concurred , she might have become a saint or a martyr , like those illustrious virgins whose pure blood cemented the grand edifice of the Christian Church . 
But in her present situation she seemed far removed from such a destiny . 
Save piety and filial love , no other strong feeling had ever agitated her bosom , until she had frequent opportunities of meeting Langley Tyringham , who stood before her all alone , a tall , stately tree in some sandy desert , without a companion , and without a rival . 
There was no one near to compare with him , and the great solitude around seemed , in her gentle fancy , animated by him alone . 
She was not actually in love , or did not know if she was . 
She had lately thought a great deal of Langley , especially since his wound and his absence on such a perilous adventure , for he accompanied her father , and they were so closely associated in peril that it was quite impossible to dwell on one without recalling the other . 
But he had never spoke a word of love to her , though sometimes her heart would whisper sweetly in her ear , that once or twice at least the tongueless eloquence of his eyes had flashed a language more easily learned than our mother tongue , and far more expressive than that of the flowers by which the Persian youth conveys his secret love . 
Miriam , thou hast a secret in that innocent bosom , and remember what the poet sings : Return from the Wars -- the Cavalier and Roundhead like Each Other the Less the Better They Become Acquainted -- Specific for Dispersing a Fog -- A Communication Ending with Something like a Declaration . 
We have said nothing of the meeting of Miriam and Langley , for the special reason that there was nothing to say . 
Miriam only held out her hand timidly , and Langley , as he gently pressed her finger ends , softly whispered , `` You see I have taken good care of myself . '' 
The little goosecap blushed , for she remembered these were the last words she had spoken to him on his departure . 
Entering without ceremony , as the door stood wide open , he found Miriam sitting alone , apparently perfectly idle -- for it was just at that happy hour of twilight , when all the world has leave to play awhile -- indulging a sort of indolent reverie , in which fancy hovers like the butterfly from flower to flower without lighting on any . 
She started at his entrance , and though he was received not unkindly , her deportment evinced a degree of awkward restraint , that seemed to say he was not altogether welcome . 
But soon her habitual calm self-possession returned , and after a few minutes conversation on past events , she addressed him with a melancholy gentleness , and her eyes cast down -- `` Langley Tyringham , I have all my life been accustomed to obey the commands of my father , nor will I wilfully disobey them but when my own reason and conscience forbid my obedience . '' 
Here she paused , as if to take breath , or gather firmness to proceed , and Langley thought to himself , `` What is coming now ? '' 
She drew a long breath , that seemed almost a sigh , and then with an effort at cheerfulness proceeded -- `` I see thou art a patient listener , and will be as brief as possible to reward thee . 
`` They do indeed , and -- '' `` I am gone , then , Miriam '' -- said he , in a tone of sadness -- `` If my presence , as I understand you , is disagreeable , I will trouble you no more ; for , however deeply I may regret its loss , I would not seek your society at such a price . 
were it not for that , I should '' -- and here she checked herself in some confusion . 
Langley , say not mywishes , '' replied she , sadly ; `` for why , now that we shall meet no more -- why should I not tell thee frankly , that but for that unhappy feeling of dislike , I might almost call it antipathy , between our fathers , it would have been a pleasure to me to see you here , or elsewhere . 
`` Miriam -- Miriam -- does it indeed give you no pain to think we shall meet no more ? '' 
There was a touching , plaintive simplicity and feeling in this frank confession of innocent regard that waked up all the latent enthusiasm of Langley 's soul , and caused him to pour it forth before her , without control -- `` Thanks , Miriam -- dearest Miriam -- a thousand thanks , of love and gratitude , for your gentle kindness . 
Miriam reflected a few minutes , as if to realize the import of the question , and then firmly replied -- `` No -- I would not ! 
`` Do so , dear Miriam . 
Another Example Set by Miriam , which Young Ladies may Follow in a Similar Predicament , or not , just as They Please -- Harold again Acting on Principle -- The Cavalier Becomes Unreasonable , and Refuses to Consider the Matter , lest He Should Come to a Wrong Decision -- Is Hugely Tickled with the Vision of an Angel , Which Is Put to Flight by a Woman -- How to Manage an Unreasonable Husband -- The Cavalier both Astonished and Enraged -- Indites a Challenge , but Is Prevented from Sending It , by the Discretion of Gregory Moth . 
Immediatelyon the return of her parents from their walk , Miriam , with that calm self-possession ever the result of a consciousness of well meaning , detailed to them all the particulars of the interview with Langley . 
When the daughter had concluded , he addressed her with stern solemnity , as follows -- `` Miriam -- you know I always act on principle -- I feared , nay , I foresaw this , and for that reason forbade all intercourse with that profane young man , who would doubtless lead thee to the path of destruction . 
Miriam did indeed blush and hang her head , and hesitated before she answered -- `` Father , I know not what thou meanest by touching the heart ; but if to think often , and sometimes dream of him -- if to wish for his presence and regret his absence -- if to feel myself awakened to a new existence , and to live and move in a world I never dreamed of before , is to be touched at the heart , then , I fear , I am indeed touch deeply . '' 
`` Miriam , '' spoke Harold , after a silence of deep , intense thought , `` listen to what I am about to say . 
exclaimed Miriam , timidly . 
He paused , deeply affected by the picture he had drawn , and Miriam approached , took his hand , and said -- `` Believe it not , my father . 
Harold kissed her pale cheek affectionately , and proceeded -- `` I command nothing -- I will nothing ; for I now see that to do so is only to lift a feather against the wind . 
Only remember this , Miriam ; if by indulging the wishes of thine heart , thou shouldst break that of thy father ; and , if in vainly reaching after happiness in this world thou should forfeit that in the world to come , the penalty will be the just meed of the offence , for thou alone wilt be to blame . 
Overcome by this appeal , Miriam cast herself on his bosom , and sobbed out -- `` Father , never while thou livest will I leave thee ; never while I live will I disobey thy commands , for I know thou wilt never bid me do wrong . 
He pressed her to his heart , and this prompt obedience made him almost regret this harsh exertion of his authority . 
In the meantime the old Cavalier had received a full and true account of the state of his heart , and his position towards Miriam , from Langley , whose frank and manly spirit scorned all concealment . 
And , Langley , as you are , it seems , relieved from all obligations of duty to your respected father , I am clearly of opinion you may go and marry Miriam Habingdon , as soon as you can gain her consent . 
But , my dear , you have not decided about the chickens . '' 
Poor Miriam , too , bowed under the infliction , which weighed the more heavily as coming from the father of one who , she felt , was every day becoming more dear to her heart and her imagination . 
She was now compelled to associate him with the persecutors of her father , and her fair yet gentle spirit rose in unsuccessful revolt against the feelings of her heart . 
As Harold was preparing to obey the summons , both wife and daughter hung about his neck , beseeching for permission to accompany him and share his fate . 
Susan received the announcement in silent acquiescence ; Miriam started and turned pale , but said not a word . 
But intercourse of any kind was extremely rare ; and though at long intervals a coasting vessel from Boston or Salem would find her way into the Chesapeake , on a voyage of speculation , yet this produced nothing like friendly or social intercourse . 
Unaccountably Perverse Conduct of Miriam -- A Message by Gregory Moth , who Makes Mischief -- An Evening in the South , which actually Ushers in an Apology for a Love Scene , which will , It Is feared , not altogether Satisfy the Reader , for Want of Sufficient High Seasoning -- A Last Parting . 
WhenMiriam left the room , after hearing the resolution of her father , to bid an eternal farewell to the banks of the Powhatan , the first , perhaps the only thought that occupied her mind was , that she should never see Langley Tyringham again , and the cold thrill that shivered through her heart taught her , for the first time , how precious was the certainty of being near , though she might not see him . 
She was resigned to the thought of their never coming together , so long as it was possible for them to meet ; but when an insurmountable barrier was placed between them , and all hope of its ever being removed was over , she felt a saddening gloom , such as had never come over her spirits before . 
It was no longer a sacrifice to filial duty , or an offering on the altar of faith , but an irresistible destiny which took away all the merit of voluntary submission . 
thought Miriam . 
The nearer the period of departure approached , the stronger became her anxiety to see Langley once more , as well as her conviction that she might do so without violating the spirit of her promise to her father . 
But she was not of a nature to rest in doubt on any point of filial duty , and one day frankly , though covered with blushes , asked permission of Harold , to send for Langley . 
`` Miriam , '' said he -- `` wouldst thou wed this young man ? 
`` To tell him to remember you , Miriam ? '' 
Miriam received the first item of this news in silent sorrow , but the latter portion caused her to turn deadly pale . 
`` He requires no consolation from me , '' she thought , but gave her thoughts no tongue . 
During the day she seemed a different being from what she had ever been before . 
Her habit was always that of repose and self-possession ; but now she scarcely remained still for a moment . 
She wandered about the house , apparently without object ; but it might have been noticed , that her steps always rested awhile at an open window , that looked toward the abode of Master Tyringham . 
Towards sunset , she told her father she wished to take a last walk on the banks of the river . 
He proposed to accompany her , but she said she preferred going alone , and he acquiesced in her wishes . 
It was a scene to make one melancholy in bidding it a last farewell . 
Miriam wandered on , too full of that within to notice that without ; or , if it called her attention for a moment , it was only accompanied by the painful conviction she should behold it no more . 
We will not insult our reader by telling what Miriam was thinking about , as she paced along . 
If he -- and more especially she -- can not divine it , let her remain in endless ignorance , and never know what it is to be crossed in love . 
As she proceeded thus unconsciously , she all at once distinguished footsteps behind her rapidly approaching , but , supposing them those of some one of the slaves in the neighborhood , felt neither alarm nor curiosity . 
There was but one being she wished to see , and he was absent . 
Presently the footsteps were close at her side , and she heard a well-known voice of panting earnestness close to her ear . 
`` Forgive me , Miriam , for once more intruding on you . 
`` I have nothing to forgive , '' answered she , in a low voice , `` nor is your presence an intrusion . 
-- me , Miriam , after forbidding my presence so peremptorily , almost sternly . '' 
`` Is it possible , Miriam ? 
I have just heard , with satisfaction '' -- and the tear started from her eye -- `` that -- that thou hast found one still dearer than I ever was , or ever wish to be . '' 
`` I , Miriam ? 
`` A little bird , '' said Miriam , with a melancholy smile . 
`` You , at least , will soon cease to remember me , Miriam ? '' 
There was a sad simplicity , a deep , yet sober , heartfelt seriousness in the look , tone , and manner of the little Puritan , as she thus gave utterance to the feelings of her pure heart that struck on that of Langley , entered deeply , and choked , for a moment , the utterance of his feelings , while she remained in that outward calm that far more than fiery words , or violent gestures , bespeaks the depth of the noiseless current . 
Miriam , '' at length he said , `` If I could but feel as you do -- if I could wrap myself up in cold submission to the will of another , I should bear your absence more patiently . 
`` Then you are content , Miriam , to give me up , and if your father commands , give yourself to another . '' 
`` No , '' replied she , firmly , `` while my heart belongs to thee , Langley , it would not only be a gross deception , but the breach of a holy vow , to promise obedience and love to another . 
`` Miriam -- Miriam -- you reason only -- you do not love . '' 
exclaimed she , with a sudden burst of feeling . 
Saying this , she clasped him around the neck , and pressed her lips to his and wept on his bosom . 
He murmured vows of lasting love ; he pressed her to his heart , and paid back the kiss with ample interest . 
Recovering a portion of her wonted self-command , she cut short his protestations . 
He longed to tempt her , by all the arts love teaches his votaries , to sacrifice all to love ; to forget herself , her duties , and her home . 
But he was a man of principle , as well as feeling , and at length , by a great effort conquered the enemy . 
He felt it would be the most dastardly cruelty to attempt to persuade her to a step which would at the same time deprive her of one home without his being able to offer her another . 
He knew the bitter religious and political feelings of his father would exile them from his home and his heart , and determined to submit to his fate like a man . 
His reflections were interrupted by Miriam , who said , in a low , tremulous voice -- `` Now it is time to go home . 
They proceeded in silence and gathering darkness , until they arrived at the rustic gate opening into the lawn , when Miriam softly said -- `` Wilt thou not go in and bid my father farewell ! '' 
At length he whispered -- `` I must repay you the debt I owe , '' and taking her to his arms impressed a long , lingering kiss on her cold lips . 
Only one word was spoken -- a mutual farewell . 
Miriam broke from his arms , proceeded rapidly towards home , and passing her father , merely said -- `` I will tell thee all to-morrow , '' -- ran to her chamber , and appeared no more that night . 
Miriam bore it like a heroine ; but her mother almost sunk under fatigue and exposure , nor did she ever recover from their effects , which were shortly exhibited in the progress of a malady that finally brought her , after all her wanderings , to her last long home . 
While the kettle was boiling , Miriam strolled a few hundred yards below , and from a projecting point , contemplated the wild , beautiful scene spread out before her by the bounteous prodigality of nature . 
Miriam , too , cherished a master feeling , which , if it did not monopolize , was perpetually intruding on her mind ; and , though sometimes a sudden pang would thrill through her bosom , as she fancied her mother looked ill , she continued unheeding of the fatal crisis now close at hand . 
Such was the state of things , when , one day , as Miriam was sitting at her spinning-wheel , not turning it indeed at the moment , but thinking of one far away , her mother , who was reclining languidly in an easychair , of most homely fashion , now almost her only resting-place during the day , addressed her in a languid voice , accompanied by a still more languid smile -- `` Who art thou thinking of , Miriam ? '' 
Miriam started from her reverie , but promptly replied -- `` I was thinking of Langley , mother . '' 
my poor Miriam , years have passed since we parted from him , and , in that time , many forget and many are forgotten . 
`` Miriam ! 
Miriam ! 
Miriam canst thou bear to hear what I can scarcely bear to tell ? '' 
`` There is bad news for thee , Miriam -- at least thou wilt think it so . 
gasped Miriam . 
It was Langley Tyringham , '' interrupted Miriam , with almost phrenzied earnestness . 
Lean on me , Miriam -- thou art fainting , and remember that to hope humbly , and bear patiently , are among the brightest virtues of woman . '' 
But Miriam was not fainting though white as snow , and almost as cold . 
Nor did she weep , or wring her hands , but remained silent a few minutes . 
At length she drew a deep shuddering sigh , and calmly said to her mother -- `` Well , be it so . 
But he is otherwise occupied , and thou -- poor Miriam -- thou hast had other thoughts to occupy thee . 
Miriam no longer thought of Langley Tyringham . 
She gazed intensely on the face of her mother , and struck for the first time with that indescribable expression , which indicates approaching dissolution , cast herself on her knees before her , exclaiming in the bitterness of self-reproach -- `` Forgive -- O ! 
`` I have nothing to forgive , Miriam , and rejoice that thou hast been spared many hours of painful anticipation of what all thy cares could not avert . 
Miriam retired into solitude in obedience to her mother , with a heart rent by conflicting emotions . 
Such was the case with Miriam , who , in the deep solicitude and overwhelming apprehensions connected with the state of her mother , found a temporary refuge from the bitterness of that besetting sorrow with which the death of Langley was destined to render her familiar hereafter . 
Susan Habingdon died about ten days after this conversation , as it may be supposed such a woman would die ; not shouting delirious hallelujahs of triumph , in frantic enthusiasm , or shrinking with fearful forebodings from the dread hereafter , but with the sweet , calm resignation of a pious soul -- hoping , yet hoping humbly . 
When , after months had passed away , he saw little if any mitigation in the calm , settled melancholy of Miriam , and sometimes observed traces of those secret tears that always come from the heart ; when he marked her struggles to be cheerful only followed by increasing paleness and dejection he became convinced there was a deeper cause at work than grief for the death of her mother . 
He , too , had learned the melancholy fate of Langley ; and now that death had placed the barrier of the grave between him and his daughter , his heart softened towards him , and he sometimes caught himself regretting that he had so sternly opposed a union that might at the same time have secured her happiness , and brought her a protector when her father was no more . 
He thought that , perhaps , instead of becoming a convert to his faith , Miriam might gradually have brought him to adopt her own . 
But it was now too late , and the very impossibility of the marriage ever taking place increased his regrets for his past opposition . 
Influenced by these new-born feelings , he one day questioned Miriam on the subject of her continued depression `` I do not wish , '' said he , `` to prevent your weeping over the loss of what can never be restored either to you or to me -- a faithful wife , and tender mother . 
`` Father , '' said Miriam , with her usual frank simplicity , `` I have other cause of grief than the loss of my dear mother . 
`` I understand thee , Miriam ; and if it can be any consolation to thee to know it , I declare that were poor Langley Tyringham alive , I would now trust your faith and your happiness to his keeping ; for Heaven only knows how long it may be before you require a protector in this wild region . '' 
cried Miriam , with tears of gratitude , `` you have taken a load from my heart . 
As she said this her face brightened , her deep pensive eye sparkled as if with a flash of newly-awakened hope , and a long absent stranger appeared in the likeness of a flush on her cheeks . 
From that time her depression gradually subsided into something like patient cheerfulness , and she went about her household duties with new vivacity . 
The sweet south wind , the most balmy breath of nature , gently curled the surface of the glad river , now released from its icy fetters , and murmuring as if enjoying its newly-acquired freedom ; the fresh meadows put forth their brightest verdure ; and now and then a chirping bird , just returned from its southern tour , chaunted his joyous song among the buds and expanding leaves , whose foliage seemed as soft and fleecy as the reflection of the woods in the bosom of some glassy lake . 
Miriam , one afternoon , pointed out these newly-arrived strangers to her father , and proposed a walk to the high-peaked mountain , heretofore noted , which rose gently from the river until it suddenly changed its aspect , and shot like a pyramid into the skies . 
At length Miriam exclaimed -- `` What a beautiful world ! 
Miriam was awed by the looks and words of the white-haired old man , and Harold now felt a strange conviction that he had seen him before . 
The energy of his language and the vigor of his thoughts strangely contrasted with his ghostly appearance , which reminded Miriam of one just risen from the dead . 
On their return towards home Miriam asked her father the name of the old grey-headed man , but he shook his head and only said -- `` Thou knowest he is one of the Judges of Kings , for such he has announced himself . 
Miriam was satisfied , and nothing was said on the subject , at that or any future time . 
A Living Rival to a Dead Man -- Some Account of a Man with a Good Character at Home , and an Indifferent One Abroad -- Approved System of Courtship which , however , Does not Succeed -- The New Suitor Thinks Miriam Is Looking in a Strange Place for a Husband . 
Tobias -- who , it is as well to state , was not one of the original band of Pilgrims -- had for some time past been `` calculating , '' as his phrase was , the great advantages of a union with Miriam Habingdon . 
In a speculative mission to Naumkeag , he ascertained that Harold had a very considerable sum in the hands of his agent there , and as Miriam was his only child , she would be sole heiress as a matter of course . 
He followed up his conclusion by more frequent visits , until at length both Miriam and her father became so accustomed to see him , that they were scarcely aware of his presence . 
Harold continued to read or ruminate , after the usual salutations , and Miriam pursued her domestic occupations just as if they were alone . 
So much was she occupied by thinking of another , that it is extremely doubtful whether she ever thought at all of Tobias , or asked herself the meaning of some very original , outlandish demonstrations he achieved from time to time . 
Not that our upright , gentle Miriam was a deceiver -- for if she ever deceived any one , it was herself . 
She treated Tobias civilly , because she cared so little about him that she never divined his object , and referred his visits entirely to her father . 
If she had really known what it was , it is highly probable that notwithstanding all her Christian forbearance , she might peradventure have thrown the distaff at his head ; for with the quick intuitive sagacity of woman , she had penetrated the dark recesses of his character , and despised him heartily . 
A few minutes ' reflection brought to his mind the unprotected state of Miriam in the event of his being called away by the messenger that stops sooner or later at every man 's door ; and in addition to this , the hope that new ties and duties might in time heal the deep wound he could well see still festered in the heart of Miriam , rendered him , if not favorably inclined , at least not averse to the proposal . 
Tobias had hoped the affair might have been settled , like a royal marriage , by proxy ; but there being no help for it , he proceeded to the little sitting room peculiarly appropriated to Miriam , conning a declaration by the way , a great portion of which is for ever lost to posterity . 
The heart-stricken Miriam rose , tottered towards the door , and said to him in a voice agitated by deep emotion , as she turned to leave the room -- `` Go to my father , and tell him when I seek a husband it will be in the grave . '' 
He would never , he said , again exert his authority , or influence her decision in a matter so dceply interesting to his daughter , having seen and felt the consequence of such interference . 
When he was out of sight , Miriam put on her straw bonnet -- the work of her own hand -- and walked forth in the holy stillness of the modest twilight , along the smooth grassy terrace which formed what is called the second bank of the river . 
Her heart seemed to have received a new wound from the proposal to substitute another idol there , and she strictly scrutinized her past deportment towards Tobias Harpsfield , to satisfy herself that she had never in word , deed , or look encouraged him to this sacrilegious rivalry of the dead . 
Her memory entirely acquitted her of such offence ; yet , still her heart persisted in reproaching her for the involuntary crime of attracting another suitor . 
As she wandered on , her mind naturally strayed into the regions of the past , and recalled , with unfailing accuracy , every incident calculated to revivify those deep-rooted impressions of sorrow , that happily for the stricken deer of this world , when softened by time , and assuaged by resignation , exercise a sort of fascination , which , while it incites to new indulgence , carries like the bee some honey with its sting . 
She returned home in her usual quiet mood . 
When she met her father , he kissed her forehead tenderly . 
Neither spoke a word of what had just passed , and the subject was not resumed until events about to be related caused it to be once more revived . 
Miriam saw him fall , and , in spite of all opposition , rushed out , and raising his head from the ground , supported him in her arms , while she endeavored to staunch the blood that flowed from a deep wound in his back between the shoulders . 
`` Daughter , '' said he to Miriam , who was sitting in the breathless calm of speechless anxiety , watching him as these painful thoughts passed over his mind , `` Daughter , thou knowest we are soon to part for ever in this world , to meet , I trust , hereafter in a better . 
`` Father , '' replied she , `` I have been taught , and hope I have learned , submission to the will of Heaven . '' 
`` True , Miriam ; thou hast answered like a Christian . 
exclaimed Miriam , in dismay . 
`` Nay , hear me , Miriam . 
But he is now dead , and -- '' `` But his memory did not die with him , dear father , '' interrupted Miriam ; `` I , at least , will never forget him . '' 
`` Heaven will protect me , '' said she , casting her eyes upwards ; `` a better protector by far than an unworthy , selfish husband . 
Remember always , Miriam , that it is better to suffer than to merit suffering ; that there is no shield for innocence like innocence itself and no balm for sorrow like patience and resignation . 
Miriam earnestly begged forgiveness for opposing his wishes , adding -- `` Even could I forget my vow to Langley , I could never have consented to wed Tobias Harpsfield . 
He then briefly informed her that he had long ago made his will ; that , being now of age , she would have the sole disposal of his property ; and that the good pastor had promised his kind offices whenever she required protection or advice . 
He enjoined her to look to him as a parent on all occasions , and giving her a paternal kiss , desired to be left alone awhile , as he felt exhausted and drowsy . 
Miriam Alone in the World -- The Good Pastor Falls Asleep in His Pulpit -- One of Job 's Comforters -- A Suitor Non-suited before Commencing His Suit -- New Lords , New Laws , and New Emigrants -- Consequences . 
When the silent grief of a deeply-wounded spirit , had begun to feel the balmy influence of the old greybeard comforter , Time , Miriam , though she might not be called happy , was far from being miserable . 
Her recollections of the past were unaccompanied by remorse ; her present situation was surrounded by the simple comforts which money could command in that remote region ; and the future was brightened by a hope beyond the grave . 
Her habits of industry were now a never-failing resource ; she never felt the pressure of unoccupied time , that deadly nightmare which poisons the existence of those favored mortals , the envy of their fellow-creatures , who undergo ten times more labor in search of pleasure , than the poor man does in search of bread ; and find harder work in killing time than others do in employing it usefully . 
In her hours of contemplation , she was never alone , for her thoughts dwelt on objects , which though not always present , yet ever and anon , returned in the semblance of departed friends , who dead to the world , seemed to live for her alone . 
She became at length so familiarized to these contemplations , that instead of paining , they soothed her heart , and she would not have exchanged them for joy and gladness . 
Their shadows ever appeared with approving smiles , not frowning scowls , as if reproaching her with some past offence ; and when this is the case , the memory of the past , though it may be peopled with lost friends , brings with it a soothing , gentle pleasure , that may well compare with the delusive dreams of hope . 
Here was the last staff broken , and poor Miriam had no earthly prop to lean upon , but an aged woman , kind and affectionate indeed , from long habit ; but possessing a narrow mind , incapable of sympathizing with hers . 
It was at this period , too , that she began to be again pestered with the visits of Tobias Harpsfield , who , notwithstanding his former rebuff , still continued to calculate that she would be an excellent speculation . 
He had taken great pains to ascertain precisely what she was worth , and watched with the patience of a beast of prey to see how , one by one , all those who would protect or defend his victim , were called away from her . 
He had a high opinion of perseverance , and was accustomed to say , that he who held out to the last would always win . 
Miriam received and listened to him with loathing . 
Miriam could not take a walk , morning , noon , or evening , without what Tobias called a chance meeting ; and if she staid at home , he had ever some clumsy excuse for calling . 
He watched her going to church , or waylaid her in returning ; accompanied her home ; and in short , so managed matters , that at length the neighbors began to compliment Miriam on her conquest in a sly way , and ask her `` when it was to be . '' 
Now it so happened , that on that very morning Miriam had been for the second time complimented by a knowing old dame , a near neighbor , who took particular cognizance of other people 's affairs -- on her approaching wedding . 
Heavens ! 
how her heart swelled with indignant sorrow at the idea of such a suecessor to Langley . 
It was not to be borne ; and though the discreet Tobias had as yet never repeated his proposal , or given her a fair opportunity for discarding him , she at once resolved to take it without it being given , though it was rather an awkward business to nonsuit one who had not actually commenced his suit . 
She was in the height of her indignation , when Tobias walked in without knocking -- for he affected to be very intimate -- and full of his purpose to try his fortune a second time . 
He had wrought himself up to the crisis -- he had cleared his throat by a vigorous `` hem , '' and warmed his icy soul by a vision of her dower , when Miriam anticipated his purpose , by meeting him considerably more than half way . 
She began by referring to her peculiar situation , as a single woman , without father or mother , and living almost alone ; to the delicate proprieties such a situation imposed ; to his frequent visits , and constant intrusion everywhere ; and finally , with a flushed cheek and flashing eye , bespeaking mingled modesty and loathing , she alluded to the reports which his conduct had produced . 
What then was his astonishment and dismay , when he was saluted with a peremptory request , which sounded very much like a demand , that he would at once , and forever , discontinue his visits ; forbear all further attentions , and consider himself a perfect stranger in future . 
Progress of a Panic -- Ingenious Device of Master Tobias Harpsfield for Winning a Wife -- Description of a First-Rate Witch -- Miriam Accused of Witchcraft . 
None knew how she lived , and the reason was , none cared , except Miriam , who could have explained the mystery had she chosen . 
This old vrouw was eminently qualified for a witch , having not the least pretensions to beauty . 
Homely in her youth , the hardships and exposures endured in the progress of her captivity among the savages , together with the deep scar of a tomahawk across her cheek , had given her face a savage expression , exceedingly harsh and disagreeable . 
Besides this , she lived alone with her cat , and apparently shunned all communication with her fellow-creatures . 
The natural conclusion was , that her principal associates were among the spirits of darkness . 
In fine , she was old , ugly , and poor ; her dialect was a farrago of Dutch , Indian , and English ; she walked with a stick , was almost bent double , and had a cat . 
One of the extraordinary features of witchcraft is the agency of young children , at least such was the case here . 
It was at this crisis , that Master Tobias Harpsfield thought he perceived a fair opportunity of either revenging himself for his double dismissal , or forcing Miriam into his arms for protection . 
When brought to trial , she was to pretend to fall into convulsions , howl like the savages , and ever and anon screech forth the name of Miriam Habingdon , as the instrument of all her sufferings . 
Alas ! 
Miriam was her benefactress . 
In justice , however , to Old Cat , she demurred stoutly to this last act of the farce , until Tobias solemnly assured her he would take especial care that no harm should happen to the young lady . 
Thus tutored , and having thoroughly learned and practiced her lesson , Old Cat was in good time brought forth for trial . 
In her progress from the jail to the room in which the court was sitting , she performed all sorts of violent antics ; imitated the most extravagant gestures of the savages in their dances , their shouts , and their howlings ; and after going through a series of almost supernatural contortions , ever and anon screeched forth the name of Miriam Habingdon , who , she said , was thus tormenting her . 
The court was brought to a stand ; the spectators stood aghast at this denunciation of one hitherto believed of so blameless a life , so innocent of all offence against her fellow-creatures . 
Hitherto the accusations of witchcraft had been confined to persons of suspicious character and low station , whose habits of life or obscurity of position afforded at least some pretext for persecution . 
The panic became more intense ; and that purity of life and character which ought to have shielded Miriam from suspicion , only operated to raise her into an object of increasing horror ; for such was the besotted state of the community , that had an angel descended from Heaven , his divine mission would scarcely have protected him from being mistaken for the Spirit of Darkness in disguise . 
The old woman was remanded to prison , rather as a witness than a criminal ; and though the judges were neither brutes nor hypocrites , such was the delusion under which they labored , that after mature deliberation , a warrant was issued for the apprehension of Miriam Habingdon , on a charge of witchcraft . 
Miriam Examined before the Magistrates and Committed to Prison on the Evidence of Old Cat -- Visit of Condolence by Tobias Harpsfield and its Consequences -- Trial and Condemnation on the Testimony of the Devil . 
Conscious of her innocence , she suffered herself to be led an unresisting victim , little aware that neither innocence would avail , or humanity interpose to shield her from a whirlwind that was sweeping down all the barriers of common sense , and human feeling . 
She appeared before the magistrates , with all the quiet self-possession of conscious innocence ; but such was the revolution in public opinion which a few hours had produced , that a majority of the spectators pronounced her demeanor nothing more than a hardened insensibility , indicating the last hopeless stage of guilt . 
Schooled by Tobias Harpsfield , Old Cat , after a preliminary exhibition of writhings , screechings , contortions , and convulsions , told the usual tale of beating , pinching , strangling , and sticking pins , all which she ascribed to Miriam , who , though at these times invisible to others , she recognized as her tormentor . 
When this deplorable farce was concluded , the criminal being asked what she had to say in her defence , simply and solemnly protested her innocence , and concluded by suggesting the propriety of establishing the existence of witchcraft , before they punished the witches . 
This insinuation operated greatly against her , as it clearly indicated that both magistrates and people were equally under the influence of a delusion . 
Miriam was committed to prison , where she remained in solitude , avoided by all . 
She had nursed Miriam from the cradle , loved her with all her heart , and it is probable would have died for her ; but there was something in this diabolical communion so horribly revolting , that the pious old soul recoiled in disgust whenever she thought of her former nursling . 
Thus was poor Miriam deserted by all the little world around her , and left with no other stay than that of conscious innocence . 
He paid Miriam a visit , and such was the desolation of her soul , such the depression of the lonely and deserted maiden , such the feeling of utter abandonment that crushed her to the earth , that even his presence was not unwelcome . 
During the interim between the committal and trial of Miriam , Tobias repeated his visits , confining himself to reflections on her situation , and suggestions of the best means for relief , without the slightest allusion to his ultimate object . 
Miriam began to believe he was indeed a friend , and her heart smote her for her former prejudices . 
At length being pressed for time , as the trial was now approaching , he took occasion to apprise her , with an air of peculiar satisfaction , that in the course of his indefatigable inquiries in her behalf he had , he believed , gained a clue , which , if properly followed up , would either result in her immediate release , or subsequent acquittal . 
Having thus awakened a hope , he indirectly and cautiously insinuated her forlorn and desolate situation , without parent , brother , or friend , other than himself ; and concluded by suggesting , that under the avowed and lawful protection of a man of weight and influence in the community , especially in the church , she would undoubtedly be shielded from all further persecution . 
He was proceeding with all the caution of an experienced hunter , circling around his game and gradually approaching nearer and nearer ; and had gone so far as to intimate he thought it possible , nay , was almost sure , he had sufficient influence over old Catalina to induce her to retract her absurd accusation . 
But Miriam , at once divining his purpose , suddenly interrupted him with deep emotion , exclaiming -- `` Enough -- enough , Master Harpsfield ; I comprehend thee now ! 
Miriam appeared with all the calm confidence of conscious innocence , though trembling with that deadly weakness , which is the result of a long harrassed mind , sinking under its own resistance of calamity . 
After the old woman had gone through another rehearsal of her lesson , and detailed all the stupendous absurdities of her story , in a language which added new horrors to the tale , by its obscurity , Miriam was permitted to cross-examine her . 
She calmly questioned her as to their previous intercourse , and her own objects in visiting the hut . 
She answered only by a mixed jargon of all the dialects of which she had a smattering , and which was again pronounced by the hearers to be the language of the Evil Spirit himself . 
When called on for her defence , the mind of Miriam rose with the occasion , and there suddenly shone forth over her face an expression of sublime innocence , visible to all , but which , in these besotted times , was held to be only one of the cunning expedients of the Great Tempter to impose on the people , hoodwink the eyes of justice , and screen his bondslaves from merited punishment . 
She spoke like one inspired ; she sketched the character of her parents , their sufferings and their exile for their faith , together with her own education and habits of life , and concluded as follows -- `` As for my occasional visits to that poor , mistaken , or misled woman -- though aware that errands of benevolence should be in secret -- I feel now called upon to declare that they were visits of charity . 
There is but one person living '' -- and here she cast her eyes on Tobias Harpsfield , who was present -- `` I at least know of but one person living whom I have offended . 
`` But , '' continued Miriam -- `` I feel that my days of humiliation and sorrow are drawing to a close , and that I am about to become one of the many victims of men bewildered by the strange revelations of a fantastic madness , which , when it subsides , will cause all those who have dipped their hands in blood at its bidding , to shudder at the recollection . 
As she concluded , the pastor , a weak , but well-meaning man , deeply infected with the mania of the times , said to the magistrates in an under tone -- `` Verily how artfully Satan can clothe his followers , even so as to convert the blackness of guilt into the whiteness of innocence . 
Miriam was silent ; she cast her eyes towards Heaven , folded her arms across her bosom , and bowed submissively , as she was led back to prison . 
There being some difference of opinion in the Court , as to the final disposal of Old Cat , she was , greatly to her disgust and disappointment , also remanded to jail . 
She had been assured by Tobias , that her discharge would take place immediately on the condemnation of Miriam , and , for his own sake , he had earnestly exerted himself to make good his promise . 
But on application to the magistrates he found to his equal surprise and dismay , that though they had received her testimony against the life of another , they still believed her possessed , and consequently had condemned poor Miriam to death , on the evidence of the Devil . 
The Self-punishment of the Guilty -- An Apparition -- Exorcism of Mildred who Joins in Accusing her Young Mistress of Witchcraft -- The Ghost Vanishes suddenly , but shortly Appears again to Miriam -- Particulars of the Interview . 
Tobias Harpsfield , when he found that he had totally failed in his matrimonial schemes , and forced Miriam into the grave instead of the bridal bed , began to feel the consequences which never fail to follow in the track of guilt , even in this world . 
Though mean , selfish and revengeful , his depravity had never contemplated reaching the life of his victim ; and when , after exerting all his influence in her behalf in vain , the conviction came over him , that her fate could only be averted by a miracle , his conscience , not yet sufficiently hardened to the guilt of blood , became his accuser and his torment . 
He continued to use every effort in behalf of Miriam , still cherishing a hope that if convinced she owed her life to him , gratitude might bestow what love had denied . 
At times , his better feelings prompted him to make a full confession in private to the pastor , in order that he might exert his commanding influence in behalf of Miriam . 
Though from sentiment and habit , she loved Miriam , yet had she such a religious horror , such a mortal antipathy to everything in any way connected with the agency of the great enemy of man , that she could not bring herself to hold communication with one not only accused , but convicted of having entered into a compact with himself , or any of his imps of darkness . 
Tell me -- tell me , where is Miriam . '' 
`` She 's bewitched ! '' 
screamed Mildred -- `` she 's turned witch herself , and bewitched Old Cat -- she 's sold herself to the Evil One , and is married to Satan . 
She sticks pins in little children -- she worries old women -- she rides on a broomstick , and is to be burnt or hanged next Friday ! '' 
Not that he suspected poor Miriam of any other witchcraft save that of ladies ' eyes , or believed in the existence of such diabolical compacts . 
He at once comprehended the dangerous situation of Miriam , and rousing himself , by degrees reassured Mildred , from whom he drew a full account of what has already been related . 
He entered without noise , and without being observed by Miriam , who was sitting at a grated window , which looked towards the west , as if contemplating the silent change from the splendors of departing day , to the milder beauties of the starry night . 
But neither her heart nor her eye was fixed on the scene . 
Her thoughts were far away , among the memories of the past , the anticipations of the future . 
She was among the dead , not the living , and more occupied with others than herself . 
So profound was her abstraction , that she had not noticed either the opening or shutting of the door , for no hope ever entered there . 
As Langley approached close to her , she became conscious of the presence of some one , and raising her eyes she distinguished a man in the waning light . 
She passed her hand convulsively over her brow , looked once more , and casting herself forward with a heart-piercing exclamation , would have fallen on the floor had not Langley caught her in his arms . 
Worn down by her sufferings , both mind and body gave way , and for awhile she lay without sense or motion . 
Gradually the voice and caresses of Langley recalled her ; and opening her eyes , she said , in tones that sank into the inmost depths of his heart -- `` Art thou come from thy grave , Langley , to accompany me to mine ? '' 
`` No , my beloved Miriam , I am come to move Heaven and earth to your rescue . '' 
`` I am not welcome , then ? 
thou art thrice welcome to my heart -- to my arms , '' and she cast herself on his bosom ; `` I will borrow a few moments from the grave to be happy with thee ; and Heaven , I trust , will pardon me that I mix one drop of sweetness in the bitter draught I must soon drain to the dregs . '' 
She leaned on his breast ; she permitted him to clasp her in his arms , and kiss away the tears that now , the first for many days , trickled down her pale cheeks , and relieved her oppressed heart . 
In the joy of meeting again they forgot how soon they were to part ; and it was not until the jailer made his appearance , and reminded Langley it was time to depart , that they awoke to a full perception of the present awful crisis . 
Duringthe interview recorded in the preceding chapter , it may well be presumed that Miriam , being a woman , had expressed a curiosity to know how Langley Tyringham happened to be in the land of the living , after having been drowned and his dead body actually recognized . 
This drew from him a relation , which will be given in our own words , inasmuch as Master Langley , in the course of his detail , indulged himself in divers digressions both of speech and action , in which he was encouraged , if not abetted , by Miriam , and which , to confess the truth , rendered his story rather desultory to a dispassionate hearer . 
But Langley -- as he assured Miriam -- paid her not the least attention , beyond what was due to his mother 's guest ; and half the time was unconscious of her presence . 
Langley made no hesitation in opening his heart to his father , and in conclusion addressed him as follows : `` So far as regards your commands to cease all intercourse with Miriam Habingdon , I have obeyed you , sir , and if we met it was by accident . 
We are equally bound by an exchange of vows , as by the unchangeable feelings of my heart , at least ; and I declare to you solemnly and before God , that no other woman shall ever stand with me before the altar , but my own Miriam . 
It rests with you , sir , to say whether I am to continue in an existence equally useless to myself and others ; a solitary being , without a purpose in life ; a burden to myself , and to those I would willingly rid of all burdens ; or to give me a new existence , new hopes , new objects , and new excitements , by permitting me to seek Miriam , wherever she may be found . 
If I find she has forgotten me , and chosen another , I am not such a silly weakling but that I can leave and forget her . 
But if I find her , as I know I shall , true to her vows , I will make every effort to remove those objections which , I fear , my dear father , are far more difficult than yours to overcome . 
Promise me , too , that if I succeed you will receive Miriam and cherish her as a daughter ; for I swear to you she will deserve it . 
`` Go , then , in God 's name , and may success attend you , '' said the old Cavalier , overcome by this manly expostulation . 
He suffered many hardships and privations , which , however , had this advantage , that their close pressure often drew him from the most painful of all his contemplations , that of being probably forever divorced from Miriam and his home . 
In the confusion that followed , he had taken the opportunity to rifle Langley 's trunk , in which the key had been carelessly left , of a wellfilled purse , and a pocket-book containing his letters of introduction , together with the formal consent of the old Cavalier to his marriage with Miriam Habingdon . 
He should never more see Miriam ; the home of his father would become desolate , and he himself perish in agonies unutterable . 
After all due sacrifices to filial duty , Langley took occasion to intimate to his mother his intention of making another attempt to see Miriam Habingdon . 
Arriving safely at Boston , he lost no time in proceeding on his journey , which he accomplished without accident , just in time to see Miriam in a similar predicament with that from which he was rescued by the philanthropy of Skipper Tienhoven . 
Poor Miriam Habingdon ! 
At length it occurred to him to seek an interview with Old Cat , in the hope of obtaining some clue that might guide him in one more effort to avert the fate of Miriam . 
Waiting impatiently for the morning he proceeded to the prison , and was admitted without hesitation by the keeper , who had no orders to the contrary , and who , in truth , began to feel no small sympathy in the fate of Miriam , whose sweetness of disposition and quiet resignation had touched his heart . 
With unwearied patience he questioned and listened , until step by step he came to a full understanding of the foul conspiracy against Miriam . 
Feeling perfectly justified in a case like this , he affected great sympathy for her , and more sincere indignation against Tobias , for not interposing in her behalf as he had promised . 
Finally , he urged her , as the best means of escaping the fate which certainly awaited her , to make a full confession before the magistrate . 
To this she finally consented , and Langley , with a heavy burden removed from his heart , immediately proceeded to the court room , where the magistrates were now almost constantly in session , listening to new tales of witchcraft , which had so increased in number and extravagance , that they began to be alarmed at the new and terrible responsibilities continually cast upon them . 
The testimony which had been thought sufficient to convict , was declared insufficient to acquit poor Miriam , and the Old Cat was once more remanded to prison , muttering maledictions against the whole world , most especially Tobias Harpsfield . 
He now , for the first time , became fully sensible of the desperate situation of Miriam , and felt the leaden hand of numb despair oppressing the vigor of his body , as well as the energies of his mind . 
The day had been spent in these unavailing efforts , and it was evening ere he could visit Miriam , the last they were to pass together . 
She had not wondered at his absence , feeling assured that he labored in her behalf . 
As he approached , she gently yielded herself to his outstretched arms , and looking in his face , softly said , `` To-morrow another bridegroom will come , and I must go with him . 
`` Miriam , '' said he , as he held her closely to his heart , `` think you that death shall ever part us ? '' 
`` I understand thee , Langley , '' said Miriam , quietly withdrawing from his arms . 
Langley answered in the affirmative , and she proceeded : `` I know full well , thou hast enough of what men call courage , or thou wouldst never have been the chosen of my heart . 
Thus , there will assuredly come a time when thou wilt remember poor Miriam ; it may be with sorrow , but it will be a sweet and gentle sorrow , softening not corroding thy heart , and free from all the bitterness of self-reproach . 
`` Miriam , Miriam ! '' 
Cruel Langley , I did not expect this of thee ; '' and now for the first time she wept , and sobbed aloud . 
She thanked him gratefully , and for a brief period they both remained silent , absorbed in deep reflection . 
`` I was thinking , '' said Miriam , almost cheerfully , `` how little space I occupy in this world , and how few will miss me when I am gone . 
It is , that when thou goest home , thou wilt entreat thy mother to call me her daughter Miriam . 
At length Miriam said -- as to herself -- `` It must be , and it must be borne . '' 
Then once more voluntarily yielding to his arms , she spoke her last farewell . 
`` Not for ever , '' faltered he , `` I will be with you in your last moments -- I will see you die -- perhaps your example may give me courage to live . '' 
The jailer repeated the summons ; Langley tore himself away to spend the rest of the night in wandering about like some guilty spectre , and Miriam to sink into that profound sleep which is the blessed refuge of mind and body , when exhausted by conflicting struggles . 
Langley , after passing the night without rest or shelter , appeared before Miriam that morning looking the picture of desolation . 
He found her clothed , as she said , in her wedding garment of spotless white , calmly awaiting the bridegroom death . 
Miriam had begged him to go and change his wet garments , but he turned away impatiently , as if indignant that she should think of such trifles at such a moment . 
A tear , which her own approaching fate could not draw , was wrung from her heart by pity for another . 
A procession was formed , headed by the magistrates and the pastor , and in the midst walked Langley and Miriam , hand in hand , to the spot where the victim was to be offered up to the dark demon of superstition . 
Various were the impressions and whispered comments of the spectators on the appearance of Miriam in her snowy gown , with a face almost as white , and a still , calm air of resignation that some said looked like innocence . 
Others maintained it was more like hardened guilt ; some beheld her with pity , others with shuddering antipathy , and a majority with holy horror . 
Of the stranger holding her hand and expressing in every lineament of his face feelings they could not define , it seemed the prevailing opinion he was nothing less than her familiar spirit in the disguise of a handsome youth . 
At length the pastor approached her and proposed that they should join in prayer together . 
Miriam replied , `` Thou hast not been my friend , but I will pray with thee and for thee ; '' and their prayers ascended together . 
As he heard her pronounce with deep devotion that name , which , according to universal conviction , could not be uttered by the unhallowed lips of the possessed of the devil , the well-meaning but misguided man looked in her face intently , and saw there such an expression of mingled piety , innocence and resignation , as shook his settled conviction of her depravity . 
Painful doubts flitted across his mind for a moment , but it was only an eddy of the tide , and the current again resumed its wonted direction . 
Miriam was now to be placed on the cart , where no coffin appeared according to custom , for these abhorred reprobates were buried without coffins , in highways , least they should contaminate the church-yards . 
It was necessary the hands of Miriam and Langley should be unclasped , and when this was done , it was as if the last tie was severed . 
Her last words , as she drew her hand from his , were , `` Langley , take care of poor old Mildred . 
The heart of Miriam bled when she divined his sad case , but she thought , `` It is best it should be so -- best for both of us . '' 
The crowd remained in breathless silence , oppressed by a growing conviction of her innocence ; the magistrates hesitated to give the signal , and the pastor heard the still , small voice whisper that he must hold himself accountable for his share of that day 's work . 
At this moment , when the fate of Miriam hung by a single hair , Tobias Harpsfield , who , driven by the lash of the fiends , had returned that morning and mingled in the crowd , attracted the attention of those around him by the agitation he displayed . 
That selfishness which had been his ruling principle through life impelled him on to undo what he had done , not so much to make all the atonement in his power , but that he might rid himself of the sting of remorse , which he felt would follow the death of Miriam . 
The magistrates , after receiving his confession in legal form , and consulting their oracle , the pastor , decided it was sufficient for the acquittal of Miriam , being in all respects corroborated by that of the old woman . 
They therefore hailed with pleasure so fair an opportunity of arresting a delusion which had now involved their own families , and accordingly promptly and unanimously decreed the release of Miriam . 
She had heard the declaration of Tobias , and during the dreadful pause of suspense had suffered more than when utterly hopeless of relief . 
But he was forcibly restrained by the attending peace officers ; and when her acquittal was announced , ran to the cart , untied the knot , received her in his arms , and almost carried her home . 
Here the first moments were consecrated to love , the next to pious gratitude ; and the hours that succeeded almost made amends for those that went before this timely reprieve from a death of infamy . 
The present abode of Miriam was associated with too many painful recollections to render her desirous of remaining , and she readily consented to accompany Langley to the sunny South , there to be united in the presence of a new mother . 
Here Miriam was received by Mistress Tyringham with the welcome of an affectionate mother , and in due time pledged her vows to him who had so long possessed her heart . 
Those feelings of religious and political antipathy which had alienated their fathers , and caused so much suffering to their children , did not take root in the soil of mutual love . 
Both Miriam and Langley were stricken deer . 
Miriam was actually married by a minister of the Established Church -- there being at that time no other mode of wedding in Virginia -- and thought the vows she pledged and received as binding as if they had been offered at a different shrine . 
Nay , when afterwards asked by her husband if she wished to accompany him to the only church in the neighborhood , which was Episcopal , she modestly replied , `` I have no scruple in worshipping with Christians in any Christian church . '' 
The new and endearing ties of wife and mother gradually moulded Miriam into something less solemn and abstracted . 
Though she never became a gay woman , she did not lack a cheerful spriteliness , that shed a pleasant light around the fireside ; and though not less pious , she was more tolerant of the piety of others , though exhibited in a different guise . 
Her early instilled prejudices against other sects were gradually absorbed by the mild , forgiving spirit of Christianity , whose basis is the universal brotherhood of mankind . 
Without being gay herself , she enjoyed the innocent gaiety of others ; never railed at youthful sports or recreations because she did not choose to partake in them ; nor did she ever turn with sour ingratitude from the bounties spread out before her by a beneficent Creator . 
Her most common and natural mood was a quiet gentleness ; and no one ignorant of her story ever suspected the latent enthusiasm ; the energetic purpose ; the obstinate , unyielding sense of right ; that lay dormant under the yielding softness , the mild benignity , the smiling acquiescence , of the Puritan 's daughter . 
We can not find that he ever succeeded to the title of his uncle , by outliving his four cousins , but certain it is that both he and Miriam lived long and happily , and their posterity still flourish in the Ancient Dominion . 
