My dear and honoured father , Colonel Henry Esmond , whose history , written by himself , is contained in the accompanying volumes , came to Virginia in the year 1718 , built his house of Castlewood , and here permanently settled . 
After a long stormy life in England , he passed the remainder of his many years in peace and honour in this country ; how beloved and respected by all his fellow-citizens , how inexpressibly dear to his family , I need not say . 
His whole life was a benefit to all who were connected with him . 
He gave the best example , the best advice , the most bounteous hospitality to his friends ; the tenderest care to his dependants ; and bestowed on those of his immediate family such a blessing of fatherly love and protection , as can never be thought of , by us at least , without veneration and thankfulness ; and my son 's children , whether established here in our Republick or at home , in the always beloved mother country , from which our late quarrel hath separated us , may surely be proud to be descended from one , who in all ways was so truly noble . 
Her golden hair was shining in the gold of the sun ; her complexion was of a dazzling bloom ; her lips smiling , and her eyes beaming with a kindness which made Harry Esmond 's heart to beat with surprise . 
`` His name is Henry Esmond , sure enough , my lady , '' says Mrs. Worksop the house-keeper -LRB- an old tyrant whom Henry Esmond plagued more than he hated -RRB- , and the old gentlewoman looked significantly towards the late lord 's picture , as it now is in the family , noble and severe-looking , with his hand on his sword , and his order on his cloak , which he had from the Emperor during the war on the Danube against the Turk . 
When the lady came back , Harry Esmond stood exactly in the same spot , and with his hand as it had fallen when he dropped it on his black coat . 
He invented a half-dozen of speeches in reply , but 't was months afterwards , when he thought of this adventure : as it was , he had never a word in answer . 
The little girl , whose name was Beatrix , and whom her papa called by this diminutive , looked at Henry Esmond solemnly , with a pair of large eyes , and then a smile shone over her face , which was as beautiful as that of a cherub , and she came up and put out a little hand to him . 
A keen and delightful pang of gratitude , happiness , affection , filled the orphan child 's heart , as he received from the protectors , whom Heaven had sent to him , these touching words , and tokens of friendliness and kindness . 
But an hour since he had felt quite alone in the world : when he heard the great peal of bells from Castlewood church ringing that morning to welcome the arrival of the new lord and lady ; it had rung only terror and anxiety to him , for he knew not how the new owner would deal with him ; and those to whom he formerly looked for protection were forgotten or dead . 
Pride and doubt too had kept him within doors ; when the Vicar and the people of the village , and the servants of the house , had gone out to welcome my Lord Castlewood -- for Henry Esmond was no servant , though a dependent ; no relative , though he bore the name and inherited the blood of the house ; and in the midst of the noise and acclamations attending the arrival of the new lord , -LRB- for whom you may be sure a feast was got ready , and guns were fired , and tenants and domestics huzzaed when his carriage approached and rolled into the court-yard of the hall , -RRB- no one ever took any notice of young Harry Esmond , who sate unobserved and alone in the book-room , until the afternoon of that day , when his new friends found him . 
Then my lord began to describe what was before them to his wife , and what indeed little Harry knew better than he -- viz . 
`` I was but two years old then , '' says he , `` but take forty-fix from ninety , and how old shall I be , kinsman Harry ? '' 
Harry Esmond blushed : `` I -- I have supper with Mrs. Worksop , '' says he . 
`` D * n it , '' says my lord , `` thou shalt sup with us , Harry , to-night . 
Sha n't refuse a lady , shall he , Trix ? '' 
-- and they all wondered at Harry 's performance as a trencher-man ; in which character the poor boy acquitted himself very remarkably , for the truth is he had no dinner , nobody thinking of him in the bustle which the house was in , during the preparations antecedent to the new lord 's arrival . 
says my lady , heaping up his plate with meat , and my lord filling a bumper for him , bade him call a health ; on which Master Harry , crying `` The King , '' tossed off the wine . 
As for young Esmond , when he got to his little chamber , it was with a heart full of surprise and gratitude towards the new friends whom this happy day had brought him . 
He was up and watching long before the house was astir , longing to see that fair lady and her children -- that kind protector and patron ; and only fearful left their welcome of the past night , should in any way be withdrawn or altered . 
But presently little Beatrix came out into the garden ; and her mother followed , who greeted Harry as kindly as before . 
He told her at greater length the histories of the house -LRB- which he had been taught in the old lord 's time -RRB- , and to which she listened with great interest ; and then he told her with respect to the night before ; that he understood French ; and thanked her for her protection . 
And she asked him many more questions regarding himself , which had best be told more fully and explicitly than in those brief replies which the lad made to his mistress 's questions . 
Jack Churchill , Frank Esmond 's lieutenant in the Royal regiment of foot-guards , getting the company which Esmond vacated , when he left the Court and went to Tangier in a rage at discovering that his promotion depended on the complaisance of his elderly affianced bride . 
He and Churchill , who had been condiscipuli at St. Paul 's School , had words about this matter ; and Frank Esmond said to him , with an oath , `` Jack , your sister may be so-and-so , but by Jove my wife sha n't ! '' 
And there , at Spittle-fields , as it used to be called , lived Uncle George , who was a weaver too , but used to tell Harry that he was a little gentleman , and that his father was a captain , and his mother an angel . 
When he said so , Bon Papa used to look up from the loom , where he was embroidering beautiful silk flowers , and say , `` Angel ! 
Little Harry did not like the preaching ; he liked better the fine stories which aunt used to tell him . 
After this Harry 's Bon Papa , and his wife and two children of her own that she brought with her , came to live at Ealing . 
The new wife gave her children the best of everything , and Harry many a whipping , he knew not why . 
Besides blows , he got ill-names from her , which need not beset down here , for the sake of old Mr. Pastoureau , who was still kind sometimes . 
Harry was very glad when a gentleman dressed in black , on horseback , with a mounted servant behind him , came to fetch him away from Ealing . 
The noverca , or unjust step-mother , who had neglected him for her own two children , gave him supper enough the night before he went away , and plenty in the morning . 
She did not beat him once , and told the children to keep their hands off him . 
One was a girl , and Harry never could bear to strike a girl , and the other was a boy , whom he could easily have beat , but he always cried out , when Mrs. Pastoureau came sailing to the rescue with arms like a flail . 
She only washed Harry 's face the day he went away ; nor ever so much as once boxed his ears . 
She was a great , big , handsome young woman ; but though she pretended to cry , Harry thought 't was only a sham , and sprung quite delighted upon the horse upon which the lacquey helped him . 
He was a Frenchman , his name was Blaise . 
The child could talk to him in his own language perfectly well : he knew it better than English indeed , having lived hitherto chiefly among French people : and being called the little Frenchman by other boys on Ealing Green . 
The lacquey before whom he rode was very lively and voluble , and informed the boy that the gentleman riding before him was my lord 's Chaplain , Father Holt , that he was now to be called Master Harry Esmond , that my Lord Viscount Castlewood was his parrain , that he was to live at the great house of Castlewood , in the province of * shire , where he would see Madame the Viscountess , who was a grand lady , and so , seated on a cloth before Blaise 's saddle , Harry Esmond was brought to London , and to a fine square called Covent Garden , near to which his patron lodged . 
He patted Harry on the head and gave him an orange . 
`` C'est bien ça , '' he said to the priest after eyeing the child , and the gentleman in black shrugged his shoulders . 
Harry went jumping along , he was glad enough to go . 
He will remember to his life 's end the delights of those days . 
He was taken to see a play by Monsieur Blaise , in a house a thousand times greater and finer than the booth at Ealing Fair -- and on the next happy day they took water on the river , and Harry saw London Bridge , with the houses and booksellers ' shops thereon , looking like a street , and the Tower of London , with the armour , and the great lions and bears in the moats -- all under company of Monsieur Blaise . 
Presently , of an early morning , all the party set forth for the country , namely , my Lord Viscount and the other gentleman ; Monsieur Blaise , and Harry on a pillion behind him , and two or three men with pistols and leading the baggage-horses . 
And all along the road the Frenchman told little Harry stories of brigands , which made the child 's hair stand on end , and terrified him , so that at the great gloomy inn on the road where they lay , he besought to be allowed to sleep in a room with one of the servants , and was compassionated by Mr. Holt , the gentleman who travelled with my lord , and who gave the child a little bed in his chamber . 
His artless talk and answers very likely inclined this gentleman in the boy 's favour , for next day Mr. Holt said Harry should ride behind him , and not with the French lacquey ; and all along the journey put a thousand questions to the child -- as to his foster-brother and relations at Ealing ; what his old grandfather had taught him ; what languages he knew ; whether he could read and write , and sing , and so forth . 
And Mr. Holt found that Harry could read and write , and possessed the two languages of French and English very well , and when he asked Harry about singing , the lad broke out with a hymn to the tune of Dr. Martin Luther , which set Mr. Holt a-laughing ; and even caused his grand parrain in the laced hat and periwig to laugh too when Holt told him what the child was singing . 
`` But we will try and teach you a better , Harry , '' Mr. Holt said , and the child answered , for he was a docile child , and of an affectionate nature , `` that he loved pretty songs , and would try and learn anything the gentleman would tell him . '' 
says Harry . 
my lord does not press himself , '' Blaise says , with a grin ; and , indeed , it seemed as if his lordship was not in a great hurry , for he spent three days on that journey which Harry Esmond hath often since ridden in a dozen hours . 
For the last two of the days , Harry rode with the priest , who was so kind to him , that the child had grown to be quite fond and familiar with him by the journey 's end , and had scarce a thought in his little heart which by that time he had not confided to his new friend . 
`` This , Harry , is Castlewood church , '' says Mr. Holt , `` and this is the pillar thereof , learned Doctor Tusher . 
`` Come up to supper , Doctor , '' says my lord ; at which the Doctor made another low bow , and the party moved on towards a grand house that was before them , with many grey towers and vanes on them , and windows flaming in the sunshine ; and a great army of rooks , wheeling over their heads , made for the woods behind the house , as Harry saw ; and Mr. Holt told him that they lived at Castlewood too . 
And the child thought that the servants looked at him curiously and smiled to one another -- and he recalled what Blaise had said to him when they were in London , and Harry had spoken about his godpapa , when the Frenchman said , `` Parbleu , one sees well that my lord is your godfather ; '' words whereof the poor lad did not know the meaning then : though he apprehended the truth in a very short time afterwards , and learned it and thought of it with no small feeling of shame . 
Taking Harry by the hand as soon as they were both descended from their horses , Mr. Holt led him across the court , and under a low door to rooms on a level with the ground ; one of which Father Holt said was to be the boy 's chamber , the other on the other side of the passage being the Father 's own ; and as soon as the little man 's face was washed , and the Father 's own dress arranged , Harry 's guide took him once more to the door by which my lord had entered the hall , and up a stair , and through an anteroom to my lady 's drawing-room -- an apartment than which Harry thought he had never seen anything more grand -- no not in the Tower of London which he had just visited . 
Indeed the chamber was richly ornamented in the manner of Queen Elizabeth 's time , with great stained windows at either end , and hangings of tapestry , which the sun shining through the coloured glass painted of a thousand hues ; and here in state , by the fire , sate a lady to whom the priest took up Harry , who was indeed amazed by her appearance . 
My Lady Viscountess 's face was daubed with white and red up to the eyes , to which the paint gave an unearthly glare : she had a tower of lace on her head , under which was a bush of black curls -- borrowed curls -- so that no wonder little Harry Esmond was scared when he was first presented to her -- the kind priest acting as master of the ceremonies at that solemn introduction -- and he stared at her with eyes almost as great as her own , as he had stared at the player-woman who acted the wicked tragedy-queen , when the players came down to Ealing Fair . 
`` Come and kiss my hand , child : '' and the oak held out a branch to little Harry Esmond , who took and dutifully kissed the lean old hand , upon the gnarled knuckles of which there glittered a hundred rings . 
`` I belong to a church that is older and better than the English church , '' Mr. Holt Said -LRB- making a sign whereof Esmond did not then understand the meaning , across his breast and forehead -RRB- ; in our church the clergy do not marry . 
On which the Father again laughed , and said he would understand this too better soon , and talked of other things , and took away Harry Esmond , and showed him the great old house which he had come to inhabit . 
The London road stretched away towards the rising sun , and to the west were swelling hills and peaks behind which many a time Harry Esmond saw the same sun setting , that he now looks on thousands of miles away across the great ocean , -- in a new Castlewood by another stream , that bears , like the new country of wandering Æneas , the fond names of the land of his youth . 
Young Harry Esmond learned the domestic part of his duty , which was easy enough , from the groom of her ladyship 's chamber ; serving the Countess , as the custom commonly was in his boyhood , as page , waiting at her chair , bringing her scented water and the silver basin after dinner -- sitting on her carriage step on state occasions , or on public days introducing her company to her . 
Also there came in these times to Father Holt many private visitors , whom after a little , Harry Esmond had little difficulty in recognising as ecclesiastics of the Father 's persuasion : whatever their dresses -LRB- and they adopted all -RRB- might be . 
And his delight in our walks was to tell Harry of the glories of his order , of its martyrs and heroes , of its brethren converting the heathen by myriads , traversing the desert , facing the stake , ruling the courts and councils , or braving the tortures of kings ; so that Harry Esmond thought that to belong to the Jesuits was the greatest prize of life and bravest end of ambition ; the greatest career here , and in heaven the surest reward ; and began to long for the day , not only when he should enter into the one church and receive his first communion , but when he might join that wonderful brotherhood , which was present throughout all the world , and which numbered the wisest , the bravest , the highest born , the most eloquent of men , among its members . 
And when little Tom Tusher , his neighbour , came from school for his holiday , and said how he , too , was to be bred up for an English priest , and would get what he called an exhibition from his school , and then a college scholarship and fellowship , and then a good living -- it tasked young Harry Esmond 's powers of reticence not to say to his young companion , `` Church ! 
And Harry Esmond , because of his promise to Father Holt , hiding away these treasures of faith from T. Tusher , delivered himself of them nevertheless simply to Father Holt , who stroked his head , smiled at him with his inscrutable look , and told him that he did well to meditate on these great things , and not to talk of them except under direction . 
Had time enough been given and his childish inclinations been properly nurtured , Harry Esmond had been a Jesuit priest ere he was a dozen years older , and might have finished his days a martyr in China or a victim on Tower Hill : for in the few months they spent together at Castlewood , Mr. Holt obtained an entire mastery over the boy 's intellect and affections ; and had brought him to think , as indeed Father Holt thought with all his heart too , that no life was so noble , no death so desirable , as that which many brethren of his famous order were ready to undergo . 
By love , by a brightness of wit and good humour that charmed all , by an authority which he knew how to assume , by a mystery and silence about him which increased the child 's reverence for him , he won Harry 's absolute fealty , and would have kept it , doubtless , if schemes greater and more important than a poor little boy 's admission into orders had not called him away . 
He and a few domestics were left as the only tenants of the great house : and though Harry sedulously did all the tasks which the Father set him , he had many hours unoccupied , and read in the library , and bewildered his little brains with the great books he found there . 
These had their lodging in the gatehouse hard by , with a door into the court , and a window looking out on the Green was the Chaplain 's room ; and next to this a small chamber where Father Holt had his books , and Harry Esmond his sleeping closet . 
In Father Holt 's time little Harry Esmond acted as his familiar , and faithful little servitor ; beating his clothes , folding his vestments , fetching his water from the well long before day-light , ready to run any where for the service of his beloved priest . 
When the Father was away , he locked his private chamber , but the room where the books were was left to little Harry , who but for the society of this gentleman was little less solitary when Lord Castlewood at home . 
Harry was only too glad when the Father dined at table , and to slink away and prattle with him afterwards , or read with him , or walk with him . 
Besides these my lady had her faithful poor Tusher , and one , two , three gentlewomen whom Harry Esmond could recollect in his time . 
These and the housekeeper , and little Harry Esmond had a table of their own . 
He was sound asleep tucked up in his little bed , whilst they were sitting by her ladyship reading her to sleep , with the News Letter or the Grand Cyrus . 
My lady used to have boxes of new plays from London , and Harry was forbidden , under the pain of a whipping , to look into them . 
I am afraid he deserved the penalty pretty often , and got it sometimes . 
It always seemed to young Harry Esmond that my lord treated him with more kindness when his lady was not present , and Lord Castlewood would take the lad sometimes on his little journeys a-hunting , or a-birding ; he loved to play at cards and tric-trac with him , which games the boy learned to pleasure his lord ; and was growing to like him better daily , showing a special pleasure if Father Holt gave a good report of him , patting him on the head , and promising that he would provide for the boy . 
However , in my lady 's presence , my lord showed no such marks of kindness , and affected to treat the lad roughly , and rebuked him sharply for little faults -- for which he , in a manner asked pardon of young Esmond when they were private , saying if he did not speak roughly , she would , and his tongue was not such a bad one as his lady 's -- a point whereof the boy , young as he was , was very well assured . 
But one day riding into the neighbouring town on the step of my lady 's coach , his lordship and she , and Father Holt , being inside , a great mob of people came hooting and jeering round the coach , bawling out `` The Bishops for ever ! '' 
My lord jumped as briskly as a boy out of the door on his side of the coach , squeezing little Harry behind it ; had hold of the potato thrower 's collar in an instant , and the next moment the brute 's heels were in the air and he fell on the stones with a thump . 
This mob was one of many thousands that were going about the country at that time , huzzaing for the acquittal of the seven bishops who had been tried just then , and about whom little Harry Esmond at that time knew scarce anything . 
It was assizes at Hexton , and there was a great meeting of the gentry at the Bell ; and my lord 's people had their new liveries on , and Harry a little suit of blue and silver , which he wore upon occasions of state ; and the gentlefolks came round and talked to my lord ; and a judge in a red gown , who seemed a very great personage , especially complimented him and my lady , who was mighty grand . 
Harry remembers her train borne up by her gentlewoman . 
One of them jeered him for his black eye , which was swelled by the potato , and another called him a bastard , on which he and Harry sell to fisticuffs . 
The boy did not know how nearly in after life he should be allied to Colonel Esmond , and how much kindness he should have to owe him . 
My lady used not to spare Colonel Esmond in talking of him , for reasons which have been hinted already ; but about which , at his tender age , Henry Esmond could be expected to know nothing . 
Harry jumped up , thinking for certain it was a robber , or hoping , perhaps , for a ghost , and flinging open his own door , saw before him the Chaplain 's door open , and a light inside , and a figure standing in the door-way , in the midst of a great smoke which issued from the room . 
and holding his hand out , Harry had no difficulty in recognising his master and friend , Father Holt . 
A curtain was over the window of the Chaplain 's room that looked to the court , and Harry saw that the smoke came from a great flame of papers which were burning in a brazier when he entered the Chaplain 's room . 
After giving a hasty greeting and blessing to the lad , who was charmed to see his tutor , the Father continued the burning of his papers , drawing them from a cupboard over the mantel-piece wall , which Harry had never seen before . 
`` That is right , Harry , '' he said ; `` faithful little famuli see all and say nothing . 
`` I know I would go to the stake for you , '' said Harry . 
Harry Esmond blushed , and held down his head ; he had looked as the fact was , and without thinking , at the paper before him ; and though he had seen it , could not understand a word of it , the letters being quite clear enough , but quite without meaning . 
Harry had been accustomed to see Father Holt in more dresses than one ; it not being safe , or worth the danger , for Popish ecclesiastics to wear their proper dress ; and he was in consequence in no wife astonished that the priest should now appear before him in a riding dress , with large buff leather boots , and a feather to his hat , plain , but such as gentlemen wore . 
`` You know the secret of the cupboard , '' said he , laughing , `` and must be prepared for other mysteries ; and he opened -- but not a secret cupboard this time -- only a wardrobe , which he usually kept locked , and from which he now took out two or three dresses and perruques of different colours , a couple of swords of a pretty make -LRB- Father Holt was an expert practitioner with the small sword , and every day , whilst he was at home , he and his pupil practised this exercise , in which the lad became a very great proficient -RRB- , a military coat and cloak , and a farmer 's smock , and placed them in the large hole over the mantel-piece from which the papers had been taken . 
You know what deceivers we are , Harry . '' 
Harry was alarmed at the notion that his friend was about to leave him ; but `` No , '' the priest said ; `` I may very likely come back with my lord in a few days . 
And to this day , whether the papers in cypher related to politicks , or to the affairs of that mysterious society whereof Father Holt was a member , his pupil , Harry Esmond , remains in entire ignorance . 
And with this the intrepid Father , mounted the buffet with great agility and briskness , stepped across the window , listing up the bars and framework again from the other side , and only leaving room for Harry Esmond to stand on tiptoe and kiss his hand before the casement closed , the bars fixing as firm as ever seemingly in the stone arch overhead . 
When Father Holt next arrived at Castlewood , it was by the public gate on horseback ; and he never so much as alluded to the existence of the private issue to Harry , except when he had need of a private messenger from within , for which end , no doubt , he had instructed his young pupil in this means of quitting the Hall . 
Esmond , young as he was , would have died sooner than betray his friend and master , as Mr. Holt well knew ; for he had tried the boy more than once , putting temptations in his way to see whether he would yield to them and confess afterwards , or whether he would resist them , as he did sometimes , or whether he would lie , which he never did . 
When then Holt was gone , and told Harry not to see him , it was as if he had never been . 
The Doctor was walking up and down in front of his parsonage when little Esmond saw him , and heard him say , he was going to pay his duty to his Highness the Prince , as he mounted his pad and rode away with Nahum behind . 
The village people had orange cockades too , and his friend the blacksmith 's laughing daughter pinned one into Harry 's old hat , which he tore out indignantly when they bid him to cry `` God save the Prince of Orange and the Protestant religion ! '' 
Thus there was less danger to Tom of a perversion of his faith by the Director , who scarce ever saw him , than there was to Harry , who constantly was in the Vicar 's company ; but as long as Harry 's religion was his Majesty 's , and my lord 's , and my lady 's , the Doctor said gravely , it should not be for him to disturb or disquiet him : it was far from him to say that his Majesty 's church was not a branch of the Catholic church ; upon which Father Holt used , according to his custom , to laugh and say , that the Holy Church throughout all the world , and the noble army of martyrs , were very much obliged to the Doctor . 
The first room they asked to look at was Father Holt 's room , of which Harry Esmond brought the key , and they opened the drawers and the cupboards , and tossed over the papers and clothes -- but found nothing except his books and clothes , and the vestments in a box by themselves , with which the dragoons made merry to Harry Esmond 's horror . 
And to the questions which the gentlemen put to Harry , he replied , that Father Holt was a very kind man to him , and a very learned man , and Harry supposed would tell him none of his secrets , if he had any . 
He was about eleven years old at this time , and looked as innocent as boys of his age . 
Father Holt came to the Hall constantly , but officiated no longer openly as chaplain ; he was always fetching and carrying : strangers military and ecclesiastic -LRB- Harry knew the latter though they came in all sorts of disguises -RRB- , were continually arriving and departing . 
My lord made long absences and sudden reappearances , using sometimes the means of exit which Father Holt had employed , though how often the little window in the Chaplain 's room let in or let out my lord and his friends , Harry could not tell . 
He stoutly kept his promise to the Father of not prying , and if at midnight from his little room he heard noises of persons stirring in the next chamber , he turned round to the wall and hid his curiosity under his pillow until it fell asleep . 
Of course he could not help remarking that the priest 's journeys were constant , and understanding by a hundred signs that some active though secret business employed him : what this was may pretty well be guessed by what soon happened to my lord . 
My lord and Father Holt must have made constant journeys at night : once or twice little Harry acted as their messenger and discreet little aide-de-camp . 
He remembers he was bidden to go into the village with his fishing-rod , enter certain houses , ask for a drink of water , and tell the good man , `` there would be a horse-market at Newbury next Thursday , '' and so carry the same message on to the next house on his list . 
As these great matters were in agitation , my lord lost his listless manner and seemed to gain health ; my lady did not scold him , Mr. Holt came to and fro , busy always ; and little Harry longed to have been a few inches taller , that he might draw a sword in this good cause . 
One day , it must have been about the month of July 1690 , my lord , in a great horseman 's coat under which Harry could see the shining of a steel breastplate he had on , called little Harry to him , put the hair off the child 's forehead , and kissed him , and bade God bless him in such an affectionate way , as he never had used before . 
As they crossed the bridge Harry could see an officer in scarlet ride up touching his hat , and address my lord . 
They cantered over the Green , and behind the elms -LRB- my lord waving his hand Harry thought -RRB- , and so they disappeared . 
He prayed for my lord and the good cause before closing his eyes . 
`` ` Blaise , ' says Mr. Holt , writing two lines on his table-book , one for my lady , and one for you , master Harry ; ` you must go back to Castlewood , and deliver these , ' and behold me . '' 
And he gave Harry the two papers . 
Harry read this , ran upstairs to his mistress 's apartment , where her gentlewoman slept near to the door , made her bring a light and wake my lady , into whose hands he gave the paper . 
She was a wonderful object to look at in her night attire , nor had Harry ever seen the like . 
As soon as she had the paper in her hand , Harry stepped back to the Chaplain 's room , opened the secret cupboard over the fireplace , burned all the papers in it , and as he had seen the priest do before , took down one of his reverence 's manuscript sermons , and half burnt that in the brazier . 
Harry ran back to his mistress again . 
Her gentlewoman ushered him again into her ladyship 's chamber : she told him -LRB- from behind her nuptial curtains -RRB- to bid the coach be got ready , and that she would ride away anon . 
So her black Japan casket which Harry was to carry to the coach was taken back to her ladyship 's chamber , whither the maid and mistress retired . 
Harry Esmond saw them from the window of the tapestry parlour ; a couple of sentinels were posted at the gate -- a half-dozen more walked towards the stable ; and some others , preceded by their commander , and a man in black , a lawyer probably , were conducted by one of the servants to the stair leading up to the part of the house which my lord and lady inhabited . 
So the Captain , a handsome kind man , and the lawyer , came through the ante-room , to the tapestry parlour , and where now was nobody but young Harry Esmond , the page . 
`` Your woman will show me where I am to look ; '' and Madame Victoire , chattering in her half French and half English jargon , opened , while the Captain examined one drawer after another ; but , as Harry Esmond thought , rather carelessly , with a smile on his face , as if he was only conducting the examination for form 's sake . 
Harry Esmond recollected to the end of his life that figure , with the brocade dress and the white night-rail , and the gold-clocked red stockings , and white red-heeled shoes sitting up in the bed , and stepping down from it . 
To have this rank of Marquis restored in the family had always been my Lady Viscountess 's ambition ; and her old maiden aunt , Barbara Topham , the goldsmith 's daughter , dying about this time , and leaving all her property to Lady Castlewood , I have heard that her ladyship sent almost the whole of the money to King James , a proceeding which so irritated my Lord Castlewood that he actually went to the parish church , and was only appeased by the Marquis 's title which his exiled Majesty sent to him in return for the # 15,000 his faithful subject lent him . 
And another letter was from Colonel Esmond to his kinsman , to say that one Captain Holton had been with him offering him large bribes to join you know who , and saying that the head of the house of Castlewood was deeply engaged in that quarter . 
Of the existence of these two letters and the contents of the pillow , Colonel Frank Esmond , who became Viscount Castlewood , told Henry Esmond , afterwards , when the letters were shown to his lordship , who congratulated himself , as he had good reason , that he had not joined in the scheme which proved so fatal to many concerned in it . 
`` Mr. Holt said they were sermons , '' Harry said , `` and bade me to burn them ; '' which indeed was true of those papers . 
`` Yes sir , a little , '' Harry said . 
And Harry began to translate : `` Hath not one of your won writers said , ` The children of Adam are now labouring as much as he himself ever did , about the tree of the knowledge of good and evil , shaking the boughs thereof , and seeking the fruit , being for the most part unmindful of the tree of life . ' 
`` I would as lief go there as anywhere , '' Harry Esmond said , simply , `` for there is nobody to care for me . '' 
There must have been something touching in the child 's voice , or in this description of his solitude , -- for the Captain looked at him very good-naturedly , and the trooper , called Steele , put his hand kindly on the lad 's head , and said some words in the Latin tongue . 
And Harry Esmond , always touched by a kind face and kind word , felt very grateful to this good-natured champion . 
This woman , who quarrelled with Harry Esmond all day , was melted at parting with him , and called him `` dear angel , '' and `` poor infant , '' and a hundred other names . 
The Viscountess giving him her lean hand to kiss , bade him always be faithful to the house of Esmond . 
Harry Esmond was too young to have been introduced into the secrets of politics in which his patrons were implicated ; for they put but few questions to the boy -LRB- who was little of stature , and looked much younger than his age -RRB- , and such questions as they put he answered cautiously enough , and professing even more ignorance than he had , for which his examiners willingly enough gave him credit . 
And Harry was left behind at the Hall , belonging as it were to nobody , and quite alone in the world . 
The captains had their dinner served in my lord 's tapestry parlour , and poor little Harry thought his duty was to wait upon Captain Westbury 's chair , as his custom had been to serve his lord when he sat there . 
After the departure of the Countess , Dick the Scholar took Harry Esmond under his special protection , and would examine him in his humanities and talk to him both of French and Latin , in which tongues the lad found , and his new friend was willing enough to acknowledge , that he was even more proficient than Scholar Dick . 
Hearing that he had learned them from a Jesuit , in the praise of whom and whose goodness Harry was never tired of speaking , Dick , rather to the boy 's surprise , who began to have an early shrewdness , like many children bred up alone , showed a great deal of theological science , and knowledge of the points at issue between the two churches ; so that he and Harry would have hours of controversy together , in which the boy was certainly worsted by the arguments of this singular trooper . 
`` You hanged as many of ours , '' interposed Harry ; `` and for the matter of persecution , Father Holt told me that a young gentleman of Edinburgh , eighteen years of age , student at the college there , was hanged for heresy only last year , though he recanted , and solemnly asked pardon for his errors . '' 
`` Nay , '' says the trooper gravely , `` the miracles of the first three centuries belong to my church as well as yours , Master Papist , '' and then added , with something of a smile upon his countenance , and a queer look at Harry -- `` And yet , my little catechiser , I have sometimes thought about those miracles , that there was not much good in them , since the victim 's head always finished by coming off at the third or fourth chop , and the cauldron if it did not boil one day , boiled the next . 
'T is not the dying for a faith that 's so hard , Master Harry -- every man of every nation has done that -- 't is the living up to it that is difficult , as I know to my cost , '' he added with a sigh . 
-- In that very sermon of Doctor Cudworth 's which your priest was quoting from , and which suffered martyrdom in the brazier , '' Dick added with a smile , `` I had a thought of wearing the black coat -LRB- but was ashamed of my life you see , and took to this sorry red one -RRB- -- I have often thought of Joe Addison -- Doctor Cudworth says ` A good conscience is the best looking-glass of heaven ' -- and there 's a serenity in my friend 's face which always reflects it -- I wish you could see him , Harry . '' 
answered the trooper -- and indeed , as it turned out , poor Dick told the truth -- for that very night , at supper in the hall , where the gentlemen of the troop took their repasts , and passed most part of their days dicing and smoking of tobacco , and singing and cursing , over the Castlewood ale -- Harry Esmond found Dick the Scholar in a woful state of drunkenness . 
He hiccupped out a sermon ; and his laughing companions bade him sing a hymn , on which Dick , swearing he would run the scoundrel through the body who insulted his religion , made for his sword , which was hanging on the wall , and fell down flat on the floor under it , saying to Harry , who ran forward to help him , `` Ah , little Papist , I wish Joseph Addison was here . '' 
Though the troopers of the King 's Lifeguards were all gentlemen , yet the rest of the gentlemen seemed ignorant and vulgar boors to Harry Esmond , with the exception of this good-natured Corporal Steele the Scholar , and Captain Westbury and Lieutenant Trant , who were always kind to the lad . 
They remained for some weeks or months encamped in Castlewood , and Harry learned from them , from time to time , how the lady at Hexton Castle was treated , and the particulars of her confinement there . 
And , the letters of Colonel Esmond coming to light , as has been said , and his conduct being known to the King 's council , the colonel was put in a better position with the existing government than he had ever before been ; any suspicions regarding his loyalty were entirely done away ; and so he was enabled to be of more service to his kinswoman than he could otherwise have been . 
And now there befel an event by which this lady recovered her liberty , and the house of Castlewood got a new owner , and fatherless little Harry Esmond a new and most kind protector and friend . 
Whatever that secret was which Harry was to hear from my lord , the boy never heard it ; for that night when Father Holt arrived , and carried my lord away with him , was the last on which Harry ever saw his patron . 
Harry Esmond well remembered the receipt of this letter , which Lockwood brought in as Captain Westbury and Lieutenant Trant were on the green playing at bowls , young Esmond looking on at the sport or reading his book in the arbour . 
`` Here 's news for Frank Esmond , '' says Captain Westbury ; `` Harry did you ever see Colonel Esmond ? '' 
Harry said he had seen him but once when he was at Hexton , at the ball there . 
`` And did he say anything ? '' 
`` He said what I do n't care to repeat , '' Harry answered . 
For he was now twelve years of age : he knew what his birth was and the disgrace of it ; and he felt no love towards the man who had most likely stained his mother 's honour and his own . 
`` I wait until I know my mother , sir , to say ; '' the boy answered , his eyes filling with tears . 
Harry did not know , he said . 
He was in the hands of Heaven and Fate ; but more lonely now , as it seemed to him , than he had been all the rest of his life ; and that night , as he lay in his little room which he still occupied , the boy thought with a many pang of shame and grief of his strange and solitary condition : -- how he had a father and no father ; a nameless mother that had been brought to ruin , perhaps , by that very father whom Harry could only acknowledge in secret and with a blush , and whom he could neither love nor revere . 
And he sickened to think how Father Hold , a stranger , and two or three soldiers , his acquaintances of the last six weeks , were the only friends he had in the great wide world , where he was now quite alone . 
Harry Esmond thanked him , and was grateful . 
Though there might be a bar in Harry Esmond 's shield , it was a noble one . 
The council of the two friends was , that little Harry should stay where he was , and abide his fortune : so Esmond stayed on at Castlewood , awaiting with no small anxiety the fate , whatever it was , which was over him . 
During the stay of the soldiers in Castlewood , honest Dick the Scholar was the constant companion of the lonely little orphan lad Harry Esmond : and they read together , and they played bowls together , and when the other troopers or their officers , who were free-spoken over their cups , -LRB- as was the way of that day , when neither men nor women were over-nice , -RRB- talked unbecomingly of their amours and gallantries before the child , Dick , who very likely was setting the whole company laughing , would stop their jokes with a maxima debetur pueris reverentia , and once offered to lug out against another trooper called Hulking Tom , who wanted to ask Harry Esmond a ribald question . 
Also , Dick seeing that the child had , as he said , a sensibility above his years , and a great and praiseworthy discretion , confided to Harry his love for a vintner 's daughter , near to the Tollyard , Westminster , whom Dick addressed as Saccharissa in many verses of his composition , and without whom he said it would be impossible that he could continue to live . 
He vowed this a thousand times in a day , though Harry smiled to see the love-lorn swain had his health and appetite as well as the most heart-whole trooper in the regiment : and he swore Harry to secresy too , which vow the lad religiously kept , until he found that officers and privates were all taken into Dick 's confidence , and had the benefit of his verses . 
And it must be owned likewise that while Dick was sighing after Saccharissa in London , he had consolations in the country : for there came a wench out of Castlewood village had washed his linen , and who cried sadly when she heard he was gone : and without paying her bill too , which Harry Esmond took upon himself to discharge by giving the girl a silver pocket-piece , which Scholar Dick had presented to him , when with many embraces and prayers for his prosperity Dick parted from him , the garrison of Castlewood being ordered away . 
Dick the Scholar said he would never forget his young friend , nor indeed did he : and Harry was sorry when the kind soldiers vacated Castlewood , looking forward with no small anxiety -LRB- for care and solitude had made him thoughtful beyond his years -RRB- to his fate when the new lord and lady of the house came to live there . 
He had lived to be past twelve years old now ; and had never had a friend , save this wild trooper perhaps , and Father Holt ; and had a fond and affectionate heart , tender to weakness , that would fain attach itself to somebody , and did not seem at rest until it had found a friend who would take charge of it . 
The instinct which led Harry Esmond to admire and love the gracious person , the fair apparition of whose beauty and kindness had so moved him when he first beheld her , became soon a devoted affection and passion of gratitude which entirely filled his young heart , that as yet , except in the case of dear Father Holt , had had very little kindness for which to be thankful . 
There seemed , as the boy thought , in every look or gesture of this fair creature an angelical softness and bright pity -- in motion or repose she seemed gracious alike ; the tone of her voice , though she uttered words ever so trivial , gave him a pleasure that amounted almost to anguish . 
My lady had on her side her three idols : first and foremost , Jove and supreme ruler , was her lord , Harry 's patron , the good Viscount of Castlewood . 
All wishes of his were laws with her . 
If he had a headache , she was ill . 
If he frowned , she trembled . 
If he joked , she smiled and was charmed . 
If he went a-hunting she was always at the window to see him ride away , her little son crowing on her arm , or on the watch till his return . 
A dozen of the servants of the house kneeled in a line opposite their mistress ; for awhile Harry Esmond kept apart from these mysteries , but Doctor Tusher showing him that the prayers read were those of the Church of all ages , and the boy 's own inclination prompting him to be always as near as he might to his mistress , and to think all things she did right , from listening to the prayers in the ante-chamber , he came presently to kneel down with the rest of the household in the parlour ; and before a couple of years my lady had made a thorough convert . 
-- towards the future , she had no plans from which Harry Esmond was left out ; and a thousand and a thousand times in his passionate and impetuous way he vowed that no power should separate him from his mistress ; and only asked for some chance to happen by which he might show his fidelity to her . 
Now , at the close of his life , as he sits and recals in tranquillity the happy and busy scenes of it , he can think , not ungratefully , that he has been faithful to that early vow . 
As Esmond grew , and observed for himself , he found of necessity much to read and think of outside that fond circle of kinsfolk who had admitted him to join hand with them . 
He read more books than they cared to study with him ; was alone in the midst of them many a time , and passed nights over labours , futile , perhaps , but in which they could not join him . 
His dear mistress divined his thoughts with her usual jealous watchfulness of affection : began to forbode a time when he would escape from his home-nest ; and , at his eager protestations to the contrary , would only sigh and shake her head . 
'T was easy for Harry to see , however much his lady persisted in obedience and admiration for her husband , that my lord tired of his quiet life , and grew weary , and then testy , at those gentle bonds with which his wife would have held him . 
And it required no great conceit on young Esmond 's part to see that his own brains were better than his patron 's , who , indeed , never assumed any airs of superiority over the lad , or over any dependent of his , save when he was displeased , in which case he would express his mind , in oaths , very freely ; and who , on the contrary , perhaps , spoiled `` Parson Harry , '' as he called young Esmond , by constantly praising his parts , and admiring his boyish stock of learning . 
And as Harry Esmond was her page , he also was called from duty at this time . 
And as Esmond has taken truth for his motto , it must be owned , even with regard to that other angel , his mistress , that she had a fault of character , which flawed her perfections . 
The second fight which Harry Esmond had , was at fourteen years of age , with Bryan Hawkshaw , Sir John Hawkshaw 's son , of Bramblebrook , who advancing this opinion that my lady was jealous , and henpecked my lord , put Harry into such a fury , that Harry fell on him , and with such rage , that the other boy , who was two years older , and by far bigger than he , had by far the worst of the assault , until it was interrupted by Doctor Tusher walking out of the dinner room . 
At this time Harry Esmond was a lad of sixteen , and somehow in his walks and rambles it often happened that he fell in with Nancy Sievewright 's bonny face ; if he did not want something done at the blacksmith 's , he would go and drink ale at the Three Castles , or find some pretext for seeing this poor Nancy . 
Poor thing , Harry meant or imagined no harm ; and she , no doubt , as little , but the truth is they were always meeting -- in the lanes , or by the brook , or at the garden-palings , or about Castlewood : it was , `` Lord , Mr. Henry , '' and `` How do you do , Nancy ? '' 
When Doctor Tusher brought the news that the small-pox was at the Three Castles , whither a tramper , it was said , had brought the malady , Henry Esmond 's first thought was of alarm for poor Nancy , and then of shame and disquiet for the Castlewood family , left he might have brought this infection ; for the truth is that Mr. George had been sitting in a back room for an hour that day , where Nancy Sievewright was with a little brother who complained of headache , and was lying stupified and crying , either in a chair by the corner of the fire , or in Nancy 's lap , or on mine . 
To love children , and be gentle with them , was an instinct , rather than a merit , in Henry Esmond , so much so , that he thought almost with a sort of shame of his liking for them , and of the softness into which it betrayed him ; and on this day the poor fellow had not only had his young friend , the milkmaid 's brother , on his knee , but had been drawing pictures , and telling stories to the little Frank Castlewood , who had occupied the same place for an hour after dinner , and was never tired of Henry 's tales , and his pictures of soldiers and horses . 
She would turn pale and red with rage if she caught signs of intelligence or affection between Esmond and his mother ; would sit apart , and not speak for a whole night , if she thought the boy had a better fruit or a larger cake than hers ; would fling away a ribbon if he had one ; and from the earliest age , sitting up in her little chair by the great fireplace opposite to the corner where Lady Castlewood commonly sate at her embroidery , would utter infantine sarcasms about the favour shown to her brother . 
The management of the house and the property , the care of the few tenants and the village poor , and the accounts of the estate were in the hands of his lady and her young secretary , Harry Esmond . 
My lord took charge of the stables , the kennel , and the cellar -- and he filled this and emptied it too . 
So , it chanced that upon this very day , when poor Harry Esmond had had the blacksmith 's son , and the peer 's son , alike upon his knee , little Beatrix , who would come to her tutor willingly enough with her book and her writing , had refused him , seeing the place occupied by her brother , and , luckily for her , had sate at the further end of the room , away from him , playing with a spaniel dog , which she had -LRB- and for which , by sits and starts , she would take a great affection -RRB- , and talking at Harry Esmond over her shoulder , as she pretended to caress the dog , saying , that Fido would love her , and she would love Fido , and nothing but Fido all her life . 
When then the news was brought that the little boy at the Three Castles was ill with the small-pox , poor Harry Esmond felt a shock of alarm , not so much for himself as for his mistress 's son , whom he might have brought into peril . 
But as she advanced towards Esmond from the corner where she had been sulking , he started back and placed the great chair on which he was sitting between him and her -- saying in the French language to Lady Castlewood , with whom the young lad had read much and whom he had perfected in this tongue -- `` Madam , the child must not approach me , I must tell you that I was at the blacksmith 's to-day , and had his little boy upon my lap . '' 
`` It is , my lord , because Mr. Henry Esmond , having nothing to do with his time here , and not having a taste for our company , has been to the alehouse , where he has some friends . '' 
`` Upon my word , '' said poor Harry , ready to cry with shame and mortification , `` the honour of that young person is perfectly unstained for me . '' 
She had never once uttered a syllable of unkindness to Harry Esmond ; and her cruel words smote the poor boy , so that he stood for some moments bewildered with grief and rage at the injustice of such a stab from such a hand . 
I have tired her ladyship 's kindness out , and I will go ; '' and sinking down on his knee , Harry Esmond took the rough hand of his benefactor and kissed it . 
Her reply was to burst into a flood of tears , and to quit the room with a rapid glance at Harry Esmond . 
As my lord not heeding them , and still in great good-humour , raised up his young client from his kneeling posture -LRB- for a thousand kindnesses had caused the lad to revere my lord as a father -RRB- , and put his broad hand on Harry Esmond 's shoulder , `` She was always so , '' my lord said ; `` the very notion of a woman drives her mad . 
`` Keep off , Harry , my boy ; there 's no good in running into the wolf 's jaws , you know . '' 
My lady looked at him with some surprise , and instantly advancing to Henry Esmond , took his hand . 
Indeed , he scarce seemed to see until she was gone ; and then her image was impressed upon him , and remained for ever fixed upon his memory . 
He saw her retreating , the taper lighting up her marble face , her scarlet lip quivering , and her shining golden hair . 
When Harry Esmond passed through the crisis of that malady , and returned to health again , he found that little Frank Esmond had also suffered and rallied after the disease , and the lady his mother was down with it , with a couple more of the household . 
`` It was a Providence , for which we all ought to be thankful , '' Doctor Tusher said , `` that my lady and her son were spared , while Death carried off the poor domestics of the house ; '' and rebuked Harry for asking , in his simple way , -- for which we ought to be thankful -- that the servants were killed , or the gentlefolks were saved ? 
Nor could young Esmond agree in the Doctor 's vehement protestations to my lady , when he visited her during her convalescence , that the malady had not in the least impaired her charms , and had not been churl enough to injure the fair features of the Viscountess of Castlewood , whereas in spite of these fine speeches , Harry thought that her ladyship 's beauty was very much injured by the small-pox . 
When Tusher in his courtly way -LRB- at which Harry Esmond always chafed and spoke scornfully -RRB- vowed and protested that my lady 's face was none the worse -- the lad broke out and said `` It is worse : and my mistress is not near so handsome as she was ; '' on which poor Lady Esmond gave a rueful smile , and a look into a little Venice glass she had , which showed her I suppose that what the stupid boy said was only too true , for she turned away from the glass and her eyes filled with tears . 
The sight of these in Esmond 's heart always created a sort of rage of pity , and seeing them on the face of the lady whom he loved best , the young blunderer sank down on his knees , and besought her to pardon him , saying that he was a fool and an idiot , that he was a brute to make such a speech , he who had caused her malady , and Doctor Tusher told him that a bear he was indeed , and a bear he would remain , at which speech poor young Esmond was so dumb-stricken that he did not even growl . 
`` It is not for myself that I cared , '' my lady said to Harry , when the Parson had taken his leave -- `` but am I very much changed ? 
One day as he himself was recovering from his fever and illness , a pang of something like shame shot across young Esmond 's breast , as he remembered that he had never once during his illness , given a thought to the poor girl at the smithy , whose red cheeks but a month ago he had been so eager to see . 
Esmond would have liked to have kissed her in her shroud , -LRB- like the lass in Mr. Prior 's pretty poem :-RRB- but she rested many foot below the ground , when Esmond after his malady first trod on it . 
Doctor Tusher brought the news of this calamity , about which Harry Esmond longed to ask , but did not like . 
He said almost the whole village had been stricken with the pestilence ; seventeen persons were dead of it , among them mentioning the names of poor Nancy and her little brother . 
And so Nancy was gone ; and Harry Esmond blushed that he had not a single tear for her , and fell to composing an elegy in Latin verses over the rustick little beauty . 
He bade the Dryads mourn and the river-nymphs deplore her . 
Esmond could repeat , to his last day , some of the doggrel lines in which his muse bewailed his pretty lass ; not without shame , to remember how bad the verses were , and how good he thought them ; how false the grief , and yet how he was rather proud of it . 
When my lady heard of the fate which had befallen poor Nancy , she said nothing so long as Tusher was by , but when he was gone , she took Harry Esmond 's hand and said : `` Harry , I beg your pardon for those cruel words I used on the night you were taken ill . 
The lady , his mistress , was in a flurry of fear : before my lord came , she went into her room , and returned from it with reddened cheeks . 
She ran to her room again , and came back with pale cheeks and red eyes -- her son in her hand -- just as my lord entered , accompanied by young Esmond , who had gone out to meet his protector , and to hold his stirrup as he descended from horseback . 
`` What , Harry , boy ! '' 
And he laughed , and sprang to the ground with no small agility , looking handsome and red , with a jolly face and brown hair , like a beef-eater ; Esmond kneeling again , as soon as his patron had descended , performed his homage , and then went to greet the little Beatrix , and help her from her horse . 
how yellow you look , '' she said ; `` and there are one , two , red holes in your face ; '' which , indeed , was very true ; Harry Esmond 's harsh countenance bearing , as long as it continued to be a human face , the marks of the disease . 
Within the last few months he himself had grown from a boy to be a man , and with his figure , his thoughts had shot up , and grown manly . 
My lady 's countenance , of which Harry Esmond was accustomed to watch the changes , and with a solicitous affection to note and interpret the signs of gladness or care , wore a sad and depressed look for many weeks after her lord 's return ; during which it seemed as if , by caresses and entreaties , she strove to win him back from some ill-humour he had , and which he did not choose to throw off . 
Harry Esmond stood in so great fear of my lord , that he would run a league barefoot to do a message for him ; but his attachment for Lady Esmond was such a passion of grateful regard , that to spare her a grief , or to do her a service , he would have given his life daily ; and it was by the very depth and intensity of this regard that he began to divine how unhappy his adored lady 's life was , and that a secret care -LRB- for she never spoke of her anxieties -RRB- was weighing upon her . 
About this time young Esmond , who had a knack of stringing verses , turned some of Ovid 's epistles into rhymes , and brought them to his lady for her delectation . 
Those which treated of forsaken women touched her immensely , Harry remarked ; and when Ænone called after Paris , and Medea bade Jason come back again , the lady of Castlewood sighed and said she thought that part of the verses was the most pleasing . 
Doctor Tusher said he was a young nobleman of gallant spirit ; and Harry Esmond , who was his tutor , and eight years his little lordship 's senior , had hard work sometimes to keep his own temper , and hold his authority over his rebellious little chief and kinsman . 
Meanwhile , it has been said , that for Harry Esmond his benefactress 's sweet face had lost none of its charms . 
It had always the kindest of looks and smiles for him -- smiles , not so gay and artless perhaps as those which Lady Castlewood had formerly worn , when , a child herself , playing with her children , her husband 's pleasure and authority were all she thought of ; but out of her griefs and cares , as will happen I think when these trials fall upon a kindly heart , and are not too unbearable , grew up a number of thoughts and excellencies which had never come into existence , had not her sorrow and misfortunes engendered them . 
Indeed , `` Mr. Tutor , '' as my lady called Esmond , had now business enough on his hands in Castlewood House . 
He had three pupils , his lady and her two children , at whose lessons she would always be present : besides writing my lord 's letters , and arranging his accompts for him -- when these could be got from Esmond 's indolent patron . 
Mistress Beatrix chattered French prettily from a very early age ; and sang sweetly , but this was from her mother 's teaching -- not Harry Esmond 's , who could scarce distinguish between Green Sleeves and Lillabullero ; although he had no greater delight in life than to hear the ladies sing . 
It happened about Christmas-time , Harry Esmond being now past sixteen years of age , that his old comrade , adversary , and friend , Tom Tusher , returned from his school in London , a fair , well-grown , and sturdy lad , who was about to enter College , with an exhibition from his school , and a prospect of after promotion in the church . 
Tom had learned some Greek and Hebrew , besides Latin in which he was pretty well skilled , and also had given himself to mathematical studies under his father 's guidance , who was a proficient in those sciences , of which Esmond knew nothing , nor could he write Latin so well as Tom , though he could talk it better , having been taught by his dear friend the Jesuit Father , for whose memory the lad ever retained the warmest affection , reading his books , keeping his swords clean in the little crypt where the Father had shown them to Esmond on the night of his visit ; and often of a night , sitting in the chaplain 's room , which he inhabited , over his books , his verses , and rubbish , with which the lad occupied himself , he would look up at the window thinking he wished it might open and let in the good Father . 
He had come and passed away like a dream : but for the swords and books Harry might almost think the Father was an imagination of his mind -- and for two letters which had come to him , one from abroad full of advice and affection , another soon after he had been confirmed by the Bishop of Hexton , in which Father Holt deplored his falling away . 
But Harry Esmond felt so confident now of his being in the right , and of his own powers as a casuist , that he thought he was able to face the Father himself in argument , and possibly convert him . 
These he took down from his shelves willingly for young Esmond , whom he benefitted by his own personal advice and instruction . 
In later life , at the University , Esmond reopened the controversy , and pursued it in a very different manner , when his patrons had determined for him that he was to embrace the ecclesiastical life . 
But though his mistress 's heart was in this calling , his own never was much . 
After that first fervour of simple devotion , which his beloved Jesuit-priest had inspired in him , speculative theology took but little hold upon the young man 's mind . 
There were scores of such men in Mr. Esmond 's time at the universities , who were going to the church with no better calling than his . 
Tusher was gone , a feeling of no small depression and disquiet fell upon young Esmond , of which , though he did not complain , his kind mistress must have divined the cause ; for soon after she showed not only that she understood the reason of Harry 's melancholy , but could provide a remedy for it . 
All the notice , then , which Lady Castlewood seemed to take of Harry Esmond 's melancholy , upon Tom Tusher 's departure , was by a gaiety , unusual to her , to attempt to dispel his gloom . 
Frank Esmond said he for his part did not want to learn any more , and Cousin Harry might shut up his book whenever he liked , if he would come out a-fishing ; and little Beatrix declared she would send for Tom Tusher , and he would be glad enough to come to Castlewood , if Harry chose to go away . 
At last comes a messenger from Winchester one day , bearer of a letter , with a great black seal , from the Dean there , to say that his sister was dead , and had left her fortune of # 2000 among her six nieces , the Dean 's daughters ; and many a time since has Harry Esmond recalled the flushed face and eager look wherewith , after this intelligence , his kind lady regarded him . 
And Beatrix , you shall have a spinnet ; and Frank , you shall have a little horse from Hexton Fair ; and Harry , you shall have five pound to buy some books , '' said my lord , who was generous with his own , and , indeed , with other folks ' money . 
`` I intend it for Harry Esmond to go to College . 
-- Cousin Harry , '' says my lady , `` you must n't stay longer in this dull place , but make a name to yourself , and for us too , Harry . '' 
`` D * n it , Harry 's well enough here , '' says my lord , for a moment looking rather sulky . 
`` Is Harry going away ? 
`` I wish you joy , my kinsman , '' he continued , giving Harry Esmond a hearty slap on the shoulder . 
`` Have the sorrel , Harry ; 't is a good one . 
And she made him a grand curtsey , and , giving a stately look to Harry Esmond , which seemed to say , `` Remember ; you understand me , though he does not , '' she left the room with her children . 
`` Take my counsel , Harry Esmond , and keep clear of women . 
Pass us the tankard , Harry , my boy . 
Harry Esmond 's departure resolved upon , it seemed as if the Lady Castlewood , too , rejoiced to lose him ; for more than once , when the lad , ashamed perhaps at his own secret eagerness to go away -LRB- at any rate stricken with sadness at the idea of leaving those from whom he had received so many proofs of love and kindness inestimable -RRB- tried to express to his mistress his sense of gratitude to her , and his sorrow at quitting those who had so sheltered and tended a nameless and houseless orphan , Lady Castlewood cut short his protests of love and his lamentations , and would hear of no grief , but only look forward to Harry 's fame and prospects in life . 
And Harry , '' said she -LRB- and this was the only time when she spoke with a tear in her eye , or a tremor in her voice -RRB- , `` it may happen in the course of nature that I shall be called away from them ; and their father -- and -- and they will need true friends and protectors . 
`` So help me God , madam , I will , '' said Harry Esmond , falling on his knees , and kissing the hand of his dearest mistress . 
cried Esmond -LRB- for he knew what her life was , though he and his mistress never spoke a word concerning it -RRB- . 
`` May Heaven forsake me if you may not , '' Harry said , getting up from his knee . 
`` And my knight longs for a dragon this instant that he may fight , '' said my lady , laughing : which speech made Harry Esmond start , and turn red ; for indeed the very thought was in his mind that he would like that some chance should immediately happen whereby he might show his devotion . 
And it pleased him to think that his lady had called him `` her knight , '' and often and often he recalled this to his mind , and prayed that he might be her true knight , too . 
When Harry Esmond went away for Cambridge , little Frank ran alongside his horse as far as the bridge , and there Harry stopped for a moment , and looked back at the house where the best part of his life had been past . 
It lay before him with its grey familiar towers , a pinnacle or two shining in the sun , the buttresses and terrace walls casting great blue shades on the grass . 
And Harry remembered all his life after how he saw his mistress at the window looking out on him , in a white robe , the little Beatrix 's chestnut curls resting at her mother 's side . 
Both waved a farewell to him , and little Frank sobbed to leave him . 
All knew that Master Harry was going to college , and most of them had a kind word and a look of farewell . 
My Lord , who said he should like to revisit the old haunts of his youth , kindly accompanied Harry Esmond in his first journey to Cambridge . 
Their road lay through London , where my Lord Viscount would also have Harry stay a few days to show him the pleasures of the town , before he entered upon his university studies , and whilst here Harry 's patron conducted the young man to my Lady Dowager 's house at Chelsea near London : the kind lady at Castlewood having specially ordered that the young gentleman and the old should pay a respectful visit in that quarter . 
Harry laughed at recognising in the parlour the well-remembered old piece of Sir Peter Lely , wherein his father 's widow was represented as a virgin huntress armed with a gilt bow and arrow , and encumbered only with that small quantity of drapery which it would seem the virgins in King Charles 's day were accustomed to wear . 
But though she was now considerably past sixty years of age , I believe she thought that airy nymph of the picture could still be easily recognised in the venerable personage who gave an audience to Harry and his patron . 
She asked Harry what his profession was to be ; and my lord , saying that the lad was to take orders , and have the living of Castlewood when old Dr. Tusher vacated it ; she did not seem to show any particular anger at the notion of Harry 's becoming a Church of England clergy-man nay , was rather glad than otherwise , that the youth should be so provided for . 
She bade Mr. Esmond not to forget to pay her a visit , whenever he passed through London , and carried her graciousness so far as to send a purse with twenty guineas for him , to the tavern at which my lord put up -LRB- the `` Greyhound , '' in Charing Cross -RRB- ; and along with this welcome gift for her kinsman , she sent a little doll for a present to my lord 's little daughter Beatrix , who was growing beyond the age of dolls by this time , and was as tall almost as her venerable relative . 
Those rapid new coaches were not established as yet , that performed the whole-journey between London and the University in a single day ; however , the road was pleasant and short enough to Harry Esmond , and he always gratefully remembered that happy holiday , which his kind patron gave him . 
Dr. Montague was master at this time , and received my Lord Viscount with great politeness ; so did Mr. Bridge , who was appointed to be Harry 's tutor . 
Tom Tusher , who was of Emmanuel College , and was by this time a junior soph , came to wait upon my lord , and to take Harry under his protection ; and comfortable rooms being provided for him in the great court close by the gate , and near to the famous Mr. Newton 's lodgings , Harry 's patron took leave of him with many kind words and blessings , and an admonition to him to behave better at the University than my lord himself had ever done . 
'T is needless in these memoirs to go at any length into the particulars of Harry Esmond 's college career . 
But he had the ill-fortune to be older by a couple of years than most of his fellow-students , and by his previous solitary mode of bringing up , the circumstances of his life , and the peculiar thoughtfulness and melancholy that had naturally engendered , he was , in a great measure , cut off from the society of comrades who were much younger and higher spirited than he . 
His tutor , who had bowed down to the ground , as he walked my lord over the college grass-plats , changed his behaviour as soon as the nobleman 's back was turned , and was -- at least , Harry thought so -- harsh and over-bearing . 
When the lads used to assemble in their greges in hall , Harry found himself alone in the midst of that little flock of boys ; they raised a great laugh at him when he was set on to read Latin , which he did with the foreign pronunciation taught to him by his old master , the Jesuit , than which he knew no other . 
Tom Tusher gave Harry plenty of good advice on this subject , for Tom had both good sense and good humour ; but Mr. Harry chose to treat his senior with a great deal of superfluous disdain and absurd scorn , and would by no means part from his darling injuries , in which , very likely , no man believed but himself . 
This did not make tutor and pupil any better friends ; but had , so far , an advantage for Esmond , that Mr. Bridge was induced to leave him alone ; and so long as he kept his chapels , and did the college exercises required of him , Bridge was content not to see Harry 's glum face in his class , and to leave him to read and sulk for himself in his own chamber . 
A poem or two in Latin and English , which were pronounced to have some merit , and a Latin oration -LRB- for Mr. Esmond could write that language better than pronounce it -RRB- , got him a little reputation both with the authorities of the University and amongst the young men with whom he began to pass for more than he was worth . 
No wonder he sighed over Harry 's insubordinate courses , and was angry when the others laughed at him . 
But that Harry was known to have my Lord Viscount 's protection , Tom no doubt would have broken with him altogether . 
Harry had very liberal allowances , for his dear mistress of Castlewood not only regularly supplied him , but the Dowager at Chelsea made her donation annual , and received Esmond at her house near London every Christmas ; but in spite of these benefactions , Esmond was constantly poor ; whilst 't was a wonder with how small a stipend from his father Tom Tusher contrived to make a good figure . 
'T is true that Harry both spent , gave , and lent his money very freely , which Thomas never did . 
In his reading , poor Harry permitted himself to go a gadding after all the Nine Muses , and so very likely had but little favour from any one of them ; whereas Tom Tusher , who had no more turn for poetry than a ploughboy , nevertheless , by a dogged perseverance and obsequiousness in courting the divine Calliope , got himself a prize , and some credit in the University , and a fellowship at his college , as a reward for his scholarship . 
In this time of Mr. Esmond 's life , he got the little reading which he ever could boast of , and passed a good part of his days greedily devouring all the books on which he could lay hand . 
In this desultory way the works of most of the English , French , and Italian poets came under his eyes , and he had a smattering of the Spanish tongue likewise , besides the ancient languages , of which , at least of Latin , he was a tolerable master . 
Then , about midway in his University career , he fell to reading for the profession to which worldly prudence rather than inclination called him , and was presently bewildered in theological controversy . 
In the course of his reading , -LRB- which was neither pursued with that seriousness or that devout mind which such a study requires , -RRB- the youth found himself , at the end of one month , a Papist , and was about to proclaim his faith ; the next month , a Protestant , with Chillingworth ; and the third , a sceptick , with Hobbs and Bayle . 
Harry 's wilfulness in this matter , and disorderly thoughts and conversation , so shocked and afflicted his senior , that there grew up a coldness and estrangement between them , so that they became scarce more than mere acquaintances from having been intimate friends when they came to College first . 
Tom professed himself , albeit a high churchman , a strong King William 's - man ; whereas Harry brought his family Tory politicks to College with him , to which he must add a dangerous admiration for Oliver Cromwell , whose side , or King James 's by turns , he often chose to take in the disputes which the young gentlemen used to hold in each other 's rooms , where they debated on the state of the nation , crowned and deposed kings , and toasted past and present heroes or beauties in flagons of College ale . 
Thus either from the circumstances of his birth , or the natural melancholy of his disposition , Esmond came to live very much by himself during his stay at the University , having neither ambition enough to distinguish himself in the College career , nor caring to mingle with the mere pleasures and boyish frolicks of the students , who were , for the most part , two or three years younger than he . 
He fancied that the gentlemen of the common room of his college slighted him on account of his birth , and hence kept aloof from their society . 
It may be that he made the ill-will , which he imagined came from them , by his own behaviour , which , as he looks back on it in after-life , he now sees was morose and haughty . 
At any rate , he was as tenderly grateful for kindness , as he was susceptible of slight and wrong ; and , lonely as he was generally , yet had one or two very warm friendships for his companions of those days . 
One of these was a queer gentleman that resided in the University , though he was no member of it , and was the professor of a science , scarce recognised in the common course of College education . 
This was a French refugee-officer , who had been driven out of his native country at the time of the Protestant persecutions there , and who came to Cambridge , where he taught the science of the small-sword , and set up a saloon-of-arms . 
Though he declared himself a Protestant , 't was said Mr. Moreau was a Jesuit in disguise ; indeed , he brought very strong recommendations to the Tory party , which was pretty strong in that University , and very likely was one of the many agents whom King James had in this country . 
Esmond found this gentleman 's conversation very much more agreeable , and to his taste , than the talk of the College divines in the common room ; he never wearied of Moreau 's stories of the wars of Turenne and Condé , in which he had borne a part ; and being familiar with the French tongue from his youth , and in a place where but few spoke it , his company became very agreeable to the brave old professor of arms , whose favourite pupil he was , and who made Mr. Esmond a very tolerable proficient in the noble science of escrime . 
At the next term Esmond was to take his degree of Bachelor of Arts , and afterwards , in proper season , to assume the cassock and bands which his fond mistress would have him wear . 
Tom Tusher himself was a parson and a fellow of his college by this time ; and Harry felt that he would very gladly cede his right to the living of Castlewood to Tom , and that his own calling was in no way the pulpit . 
At his third long vacation , Esmond came as usual to Castlewood , always feeling an eager thrill of pleasure when he found himself once more in the house where he had passed so many years , and beheld the kind familiar eyes of his mistress looking upon him . 
She and her children -LRB- out of whose company she scarce ever saw him -RRB- came to greet him . 
Miss Beatrix was grown so tall that Harry did not quite know whether he might kiss her or no ; and she blushed and held back when he offered that salutation , though she took it , and even courted it , when they were alone . 
The young lord was shooting up to be like his gallant father in look though with his mother 's kind eyes : the Lady of Castlewood herself seemed grown , too , since Harry saw her -- in her look more stately , in her person fuller , in her face , still as ever most tender and friendly , a greater air of command and decision than had appeared in that guileless sweet countenance which Harry remembered so gratefully . 
The tone of her voice was so much deeper and sadder when she spoke and welcomed him , that it quite startled Esmond , who looked up at her surprised as she spoke , when she withdrew her eyes from him ; nor did she ever look at him afterwards when his own eyes were gazing upon her . 
A something hinting at grief and secret , and filling his mind with alarm undefinable , seemed to speak with that low thrilling voice of hers , and look out of those clear sad eyes . 
Her greeting to Esmond was so cold that it almost pained the lad -LRB- who would have liked to fall on his knees , and kiss the skirt of her robe , so fond and ardent was his respect and regard for her -RRB- , and he faltered in answering the questions which she , hesitating on her side , began to put him . 
Was he happy at Cambridge ? 
Did he study too hard ? 
He had grown very tall , and looked very well . 
They all conducted Harry Esmond to his chamber ; the children running before , Harry walking by his mistress hand-in-hand . 
The old room had been ornamented and beautified not a little to receive him . 
My lady thought the room wanted warming ; everything was done to make him happy and welcome : `` And you are not to be a page any longer , but a gentleman and kinsman , and to walk with papa and mamma , '' said the children . 
And as soon as his dear mistress and children had left him to himself , it was with a heart overflowing with love and gratefulness that he flung himself down on his knees by the side of the little bed , and asked a blessing upon those who were so kind to him . 
The children , who are always house tell-tales , soon made him acquainted with the little history of the house and family . 
Papa had taken Beatrix and Frank both to Bellminster , where Frank had got the better of Lord Bellminister 's son in a boxing match -- my lord , laughing , told Harry , afterwards . 
She had come quite close up to Harry Esmond by the time this prattle took place , and was on his knee , and had examined all the points of his dress , and all the good or bad features of his homely face . 
Waking up from dreams , books , and visions of College honours , in which , for two years , Harry Esmond had been immersed , he found himself instantly , on his return home , in the midst of this actual tragedy of life , which absorbed and interested him , more than all his tutor taught him . 
The persons whom he loved best in the world , and to whom he owed most , were living unhappily together . 
The gentlest and kindest of women was suffering ill-usage and shedding tears in secret : the man who made her wretched by neglect , if not by violence , was Harry 's benefactor and patron . 
In houses where , in place of that sacred , inmost flame of love , there is discord at the centre , the whole household becomes hypocritical , and each lies to his neighbour . 
If my lady did not speak of her griefs to Harry Esmond , my lord was by no means reserved when in his cups , and spoke his mind very freely , bidding Harry , in his coarse way , and with his blunt language , beware of all women , as cheats , jades , jilts , and using other unmistakeable monosyllables in speaking of them . 
She put on a new ribbon to welcome Harry Esmond , made eyes at him , and directed her young smiles at him , not a little to the amusement of the young man , and the joy of her father , who laughed his great laugh , and encouraged her in her thousand anticks . 
If he had a headache , his mother was as much frightened as if the plague were in the house : My lord laughed and jeered in his abrupt way -- -LRB- indeed 't was on the day after New Year 's Day , and an excess of mince pie -RRB- -- and said with some of his usual oaths -- `` D * n it , Harry Esmond -- you see how my lady takes on about Frank 's megrim . 
She used to be sorry about me , my boy , -LRB- pass the tankard , Harry , -RRB- and to be frighted if I had a headache once . 
They 're like that -- women are -- all the same Harry , all jilts in their hearts . 
Harry Esmond became the confidant of one and the other -- that is , my lord told the lad all his griefs and wrongs -LRB- which were indeed of Lord Castlewood 's own making -RRB- , and Harry divined my lady 's ; his affection leading him easily to penetrate the hypocrisy under which Lady Castlewood generally chose to go disguised , and to see her heart aching whilst her face wore a smile . 
So , into the sad secret of his patron 's household Harry Esmond became initiated , he scarce knew how . 
It had passed under his eyes two years before , when he could not understand it ; but reading , and thought , and experience of men ; had oldened him ; and one of the deepest sorrows of a life which had never , in truth , been very happy , came upon him now , when he was compelled to understand and pity a grief which he stood quite powerless to relieve . 
The year after the Revolution , and all through King William 's life , 't is known there were constant intrigues for the restoration of the exiled family ; but if my Lord Castlewood took any share of these , as is probable , t ` was only for a short time , and when Harry Esmond was too young to be introduced into such important secrets . 
Harry Esmond saw this gentleman , and knew and recognised him in after life , as shall be shown in its place ; and he has little doubt now that my Lord Viscount was implicated somewhat in the transactions which always kept Father Holt employed and travelling hither and thither under a dozen of different names and disguises . 
The Father 's companion went by the name of Captain James ; and it was under a very different name and appearance that Harry Esmond afterwards saw him . 
The last conference which Mr. Holt had with his lordship took place when Harry was come home for his first vacation from college , -LRB- Harry saw his old tutor but for a half hour , and exchanged no private words with him -RRB- , and their talk , whatever it might be , left my Lord Viscount very much disturbed in mind -- so much so , that his wife , and his young kinsman , Henry Esmond , could not but observe his disquiet . 
After Holt was gone , my lord rebuffed Esmond , and again treated him with the greatest deference ; he shunned his wife 's questions and company , and looked at his children with such a face of gloom and anxiety , muttering `` Poor children -- poor children ! '' 
in a way that could not but fill those whose life it was to watch him and obey him with great alarm . 
Young Esmond feared for his money affairs , into the condition of which he had been initiated ; and that the expenses , always greater than his revenue , had caused Lord Castlewood disquiet . 
One of the causes why my Lord Viscount had taken young Esmond into his special favour , was a trivial one , that hath not before been mentioned , though it was a very lucky accident in Henry Esmond 's life . 
A very few months after my lord 's coming to Castlewood , in the winter time , -- the little boy , being a child in a petticoat , trotting about -- it happened that little Frank was with his father after dinner , who fell asleep over his wine , heedless of the child , who crawled to the fire ; and as good fortune would have it , Esmond was sent by his mistress for the boy just as the poor little screaming urchin 's coat was set on fire by a log ; when Esmond , rushing forward , tore the dress off the infant , so that his own hands were burned more than the child 's , who was frightened rather than hurt , by this accident . 
Ever after this the father , loud in his expressions of remorse and humility for being a tipsy good-for-nothing , and of admiration for Harry Esmond , whom his lordship would style a hero for doing a very trifling service , had the tenderest regard for his son 's preserver , and Harry became quite as one of the family . 
His burns were tended with the greatest care by his kind mistress , who said that Heaven had sent him to be the guardian of her children , and that she would love him all her life . 
And it was after this , and from the very great love and tenderness which had grown up in this little household , rather than to the exhortations of Dean Armstrong -LRB- though these had no small weight with him -RRB- , that Harry came to be quite of the religion of his house and his dear mistress , of which he has ever since been a professing member . 
As for Dr. Tusher 's boasts that he was the cause of this conversion -- even in these young days Mr. Esmond had such a contempt for the Doctor , that had Tusher bade him believe anything -LRB- which he did not -- never meddling at all -RRB- , Harry would that instant have questioned the truth o n't . 
My lady seldom drank wine ; but on certain days of the year , such as birthdays -LRB- poor Harry had never a one -RRB- and anniversarys , she took a little ; and this day , the 29th December , was one . 
`` 'T is the 29th of December , '' says my lady , with her fond look of gratitude ; and `` my toast is , ` Harry -- and God bless him , who saved my boy 's life ! 
''' My lord looked at Harry hard , and drank the glass , but clapped it down on the table in a moment , and , with a sort of groan , rose up , and went out of the room . 
Whether my lord 's prudence had made him richer , or legacies had fallen to him , which enabled him to support a greater establishment than that frugal one which had been too much for his small means , Harry Esmond knew not , but the house of Castlewood was now on a scale much more costly than it had been during the first years of his lordship 's coming to the title . 
There were more horses in the stable and more servants in the hall , and many more guests coming and going now than formerly , when it was found difficult enough by the strictest economy to keep the house as befitted one of his lordship 's rank , and the estate out of debt . 
Esmond tried to console her by saying what he knew of his College experience ; that with this sort of company and conversation a man must fall in sooner or later in his course through the world : and it mattered very little whether he heard it at twelve years old or twenty -- the youths who quitted mother 's apron-strings the latest being not uncommonly the wildest rakes . 
It was Harry Esmond 's lot to see one of the visits which the old Lady of Sark paid to the Lady of Castlewood Hall : whither she came in state with six chesnut horses and blue ribbons , a page on each carriage step , a gentleman of the horse , and armed servants riding before and behind her . 
She had never seen such a complexion as dear Beatrix 's -- though to be sure she had a right to it from father and mother -- Lady Castlewood 's was indeed a wonder of freshness , and Lady Sark sighed to think she had not been born a fair woman ; and remarking Harry Esmond , with a fascinating superannuated smile , she complimented him on his wit , which she said she could see from his eyes and forehead : and vowed that she never would have him at Sark until her daughter were out of the way . 
My Lord Firebrace was but a feeble-minded and weak-limbed young nobleman , small in stature and limited in understanding -- to judge from the talk young Esmond had with him ; but the other was a person of a handsome presence , with the bel air , and a bright daring warlike aspect , which according to the chronicle of those days , had already achieved for him the conquest of several beauties and toasts . 
He had fought and conquered in France , as well as in Flanders ; he had served a couple of campaigns with the Prince of Baden on the Danube , and witnessed the rescue of Vienna from the Turk . 
All night long , over his tobacco-pipe , Castlewood did not cease to talk to Harry Esmond in praise of his new friend , and in fact did not leave off speaking of him until his lordship was so tipsy that he could not speak plainly any more . 
`` Indeed , Francis , I never thought otherwise , '' answered my lady , rising and dropping him a curtsey , in which stately action , if there was obedience , there was defiance too ; and in which a bystander deeply interested in the happiness of that pair as Harry Esmond was , might see how hopelessly separated they were ; what a great gulf of difference and discord had run between them ! 
Did you ever see such a frigid insolence as it is , Harry ? 
That 's the way she treats me , '' he broke out , storming , and his face growing red as he clenched his fists and went on . 
`` Indeed and indeed , sir , I never heard her say a word but of respect regarding you , '' Harry Esmond interposed . 
Why what do you think she said to me , Harry ? 
`` Indeed , my lord , though 't was hard to forgive , I think my mistress forgave it , '' Harry Esmond said ; `` and remember how eagerly she watched your lordship 's return , and how sadly she turned away when she saw your cold looks . '' 
`` Indeed , sir , I do not , '' says Harry , with a smile . 
'T is only when she is out of sight with her abominable cold glances , that run through me , that they 'll come to me , and that I dare to give them so much as a kiss ; and that 's why I take 'em and love 'em in other people 's houses , Harry . 
Harry Esmond admired as he listened to him , and thought how the poor preacher of this self-sacrifice had fled from the small-pox , which the lady had borne so cheerfully , and which had been the cause of so much disunion in the lives of all in this house . 
Harry 's heart was pained within him , to watch the struggles and pangs that tore the breast of this kind , manly , friend and protector . 
Harry , who would have given his life to make his benefactress and her husband happy , bethought him , now that he saw what my lord 's state of mind was , and that he really had a great deal of that love left in his heart , and ready for his wife 's acceptance , if she would take it , whether he could not be a means of reconciliation between these two persons , whom he revered the most in the world . 
And he cast about how he should break a part of his mind to his mistress , and warn her that in his , Harry 's opinion , at least , her husband was still her admirer , and even her lover . 
She , who was ordinarily calm and most gentle , and full of smiles and soft attentions , flushed up when young Esmond so spoke to her , and rose from her chair , looking at him with a haughtiness and indignation that he had never before known her to display . 
`` I would sooner see peace between you than anything else in the world , '' Harry answered , `` and would go of any embassy that had that end . '' 
madam , '' cried Harry , `` What have I done that thus , for a second time , you insult me ? 
`` Well , none -- none that you know of , Harry , or could help . 
And Harry went away from this colloquy , thinking still that the estrangement between his patron and his beloved mistress was remediable , and that each had at heart a strong attachment to the other . 
They sported together , they drank , they played bowls and tennis : my Lord Castlewood would go for three days to Sark , and bring back my Lord Mohun to Castlewood -- where indeed his lordship made himself very welcome to all persons , having a joke or a new game at romps for the children , all the talk of the town for my lord , and musick and gallantry and plenty of the beau langage for my lady , and for Harry Esmond , who was never tired of hearing his stories of his campaigns and his life at Vienna , Venice , Paris , and the famous cities of Europe which he had visited both in peace and war . 
And he sang at my lady 's harpsichord , and played cards or backgammon , or his new game of billiards with my lord -LRB- of whom he invariably got the better -RRB- ; always having a consummate good humour , and bearing himself with a certain manly grace , that might exhibit somewhat of the camp and Alsatia perhaps , but that had its charm and stamped him a gentleman : and his manner to Lady Castlewood was so devoted and respectful , that she soon recovered from the first feelings of dislike which she had conceived against him -- nay , before long , began to be interested in his spiritual welfare , and hopeful of his conversion , lending him books of piety , which he promised dutifully to study . 
When they got to their second bottle , Harry Esmond used commonly to leave these two noble topers , who , though they talked freely enough , Heaven knows , in his presence -LRB- Good Lord , what a set of stories , of Alsatia and Spring Garden , of the taverns and gaming-houses , of the ladies of the court , and mesdames of the theatres , he can recal out of their godly conversation ! -RRB- 
-- although I say they talked before Esmond freely , yet they seemed pleased when he went away ; and then they had another bottle , and then they fell to cards , and then my Lord Mohun came to her ladyship 's drawing-room ; leaving his boon companion to sleep off his wine . 
'T is with almost all of us , as in M. Massillon 's magnificent image regarding King William , a grain de sable that perverts or perhaps overthrows us ; and so it was but a light word flung in the air , a mere freak of a perverse child 's temper , that brought down a whole heap of crushing woes upon that family whereof Harry Esmond formed a part . 
Coming home to his dear Castlewood in the third year of his academical course -LRB- wherein he had now obtained some distinction , his Latin Poem on the death of the Duke of Glocester , Princess Anne of Denmark 's son , having gained him a medal , and introduced him to the society of the University wits -RRB- , Esmond found his little friend and pupil Beatrix grown to be taller than her mother , a slim and lovely young girl , with cheeks mantling with health and roses : with eyes like stars shining out of azure , with waving bronze hair clustered about the fairest young forehead ever seen : and a mien and shape haughty and beautiful , such as that of the famous antique statue of the Huntress Diana -- at one time haughty , rapid , imperious , with eyes and arrows that dart and kill . 
Harry watched and wondered at this young creature , and likened her in his mind to Artemis with the ringing bow and shafts flashing death upon the children of Niobe ; at another time she was coy and melting as Luna shining tenderly upon Endymion . 
It was but three years before , that the child then but ten years old had nearly managed to make a quarrel between Harry Esmond and his comrade , good-natured phlegmatick Thos . 
Tusher , who never of his own seeking quarrelled with anybody : by quoting to the latter some silly joke which Harry had made regarding him -- -LRB- it was the merest , idlest jest , though it near drove two old friends to blows , and I think such a battle would have pleased her -RRB- -- and from that day Tom kept at a distance from her ; and she respected him , and coaxed him sedulously whenever they met . 
But Harry was much more easily appeased , because he was fonder of the child : and when she made mischief , used cutting speeches , or caused her friends pain ; she excused herself for her fault , not by admitting and deploring it , but by pleading not guilty , and asserting innocence so constantly , and with such seeming artlessness , that was impossible to question her plea . 
'T is not to be imagined that Harry Esmond had all this experience at this early stage of his life , whereof he is now writing the history -- many things here noted were but known to him in later days . 
Almost everything Beatrix did or undid seemed good , or at least pardonable , to him then and years afterwards . 
It happened , then , that Harry Esmond came home to Castlewood for his last vacation , with good hopes of a fellowship at his college , and a contented resolve to advance his fortune that way . 
'T was in the first year of the present century , Mr. Esmond -LRB- as far as he knew the period of his birth -RRB- being then twenty-two years old . 
He found his quondam pupil shot up into this beauty of which we have spoken , and promising yet more : her brother , my lord 's son , a handsome high-spirited brave lad , generous and frank , and kind to everybody , save perhaps his sister , with whom Frank was at war -LRB- and not from his but her fault -RRB- -- adoring his mother , whose joy he was : and taking her side in the unhappy matrimonial differences which were now permanent , while of course Mistress Beatrix ranged with her father . 
When heads of families fall out , it must naturally be that their dependents wear the one or the other party 's colour ; and even in the parliaments in the servants ' hall or the stables , Harry , who had an early observant turn , could see which were my lord 's adherents and which my lady 's , and conjecture pretty shrewdly how their unlucky quarrel was debated . 
Once in the spring those two noblemen had ridden to Cambridge from Newmarket , whither they had gone for the horse-racing , and had honoured Harry Esmond with a visit at his rooms ; after which Doctor Montague , the master of the College , who had treated Harry somewhat haughtily , seeing his familiarity with these great folks , and that my Lord Castlewood laughed and walked with his hand on Harry 's shoulder , relented to Mr. Esmond , and condescended to be very civil to him ; and some days after his arrival , Harry , laughing , told this story to Lady Esmond , remarking how strange it was that men famous for learning and renowned over Europe , should , nevertheless , so bow down to a title , and cringe to a nobleman , ever so poor . 
When she was gone , my lady looked so sad and grave , that Harry asked the cause of her disquietude . 
She said it was not merely what he said of Newmarket , but what she had remarked , with great anxiety and terror , that my lord , ever since his acquaintance with the Lord Mohun especially , had recurred to his fondness for play , which he had renounced since his marriage . 
`` I wish I could help you , madam , '' said Harry Esmond , sighing , and wishing that unavailingly , and for the thousandth time in his life . 
And so it is , and for his rule over his family , and for his conduct to wife and children -- subjects over whom his power is monarchical , any one who watches the world must think with trembling sometimes of the account which many a man will have to render . 
If Harry Esmond 's patron erred , 't was in the latter way , from a disposition rather self-indulgent then cruel : and he might have been brought back to much better feelings , had time been given to him to bring his repentance to a lasting reform . 
The two lords , who were at cards , both gave a start ; my lady turned as red as scarlet , and bade Mistress Beatrix go to her own chamber : whereupon the girl , putting on , as her wont was , the most innocent air , said , `` I am sure I meant no wrong ; I am sure mamma talks a great deal more to Harry Esmond than she does to papa , -- and she cried when Harry went away , and she never does when papa goes away ; and last night she talked to Lord Mohun for ever so long , and sent us out of the room , and cried when we came back , and -- '' `` D * n ! '' 
-- Whereupon Harry Esmond filled with alarm for the consequences to which this disastrous dispute might lead , broke out into the most vehement expostulations with his patron and his adversary . 
`` ` Faith , Frank , a man with a gouty toe ca n't run after other men 's wives , '' broke out my Lord Mohun , who indeed was in that way , and with a laugh and look at his swathed limb so frank and comical , that the other dashing his fist across his forehead was caught by that infectious good humour , and said with his oath , '' -- it , Harry , I believe thee , '' and so this quarrel was over , and the two gentlemen , at swords drawn but just now , dropped their points and shook hands . 
`` Go bring my lady back , '' said Harry 's patron . 
He found her at the door ; she had been listening there , but went back as he came . 
She took both his hands , hers were marble cold . 
She seemed as if she would fall on his shoulder . 
`` Thank you , and God bless you , my dear brother Harry , '' she said . 
She kissed his hand , Esmond felt her tears upon it : and leading her into the room , and up to my lord , the Lord Castlewood with an outbreak of feeling and affection such as he had not exhibited for many a long day , took his wife to his heart , and bent over and kissed her and asked her pardon . 
I will have my gruel a-bed , '' said my Lord Mohun : and limped off comically on Harry Esmond 's arm . 
`` By George that woman is a pearl , '' he said ; `` and 't is only a pig that would n't value her . 
Have you seen the vulgar trapesing orange-girl whom Esmond -- '' but here Mr. Esmond interrupted him , saying that these were not affairs for him to know . 
Lord Castlewood stood looking after his wife as she went on this errand , and as he looked , Harry Esmond could not but gaze on him , and remarked in his patron 's face an expression of love , and grief , and care , which very much moved and touched the young man . 
I have been going wrong these five years , Harry Esmond . 
I left Beatrix with her relations , and went to London ; and I fell among thieves , Harry , and I got back to confounded cards and dice , which I had n't touched since my marriage -- no , not since I was in the Duke 's Guard , with those wild Mohocks . 
Mohun was as much master at Castlewood as the owner of the Hall itself ; and his equipages filled the stables , where , indeed , there was room in plenty for many more horses than Harry Esmond 's impoverished patron could afford to keep . 
He had arrived on horseback with his people ; but when his gout broke out my Lord Mohun sent to London for a light chaise he had , drawn by a pair of small horses , and running as swift , wherever roads were good , as a Laplander 's sledge . 
Seeing the two gentlemen constantly at cards still of evenings , Harry Esmond one day deplored to his mistress that this fatal infatuation of her lord should continue ; and now they seemed reconciled together , begged his lady to hint to her husband that he should play no more . 
But Lady Castlewood , smiling archly and gaily , said she would speak to him presently , and that for a few nights more at least , he might be let to have his amusement . 
`` Indeed , madam , '' said Harry , `` you know not what it costs you ; and ` its easy for any observer who knows the game , to see that Lord Mohun is by far the stronger of the two . '' 
`` Harry , shall I tell you a secret ? '' 
Harry Esmond did not know whether to laugh , to be angry , or to love his dear mistress more than ever for the obstinate innocency with which she chose to regard the conduct of a man of the world , whose designs he knew better how to interpret . 
He told the lady , guardedly , but so as to make his meaning quite clear to her , what he knew in respect of the former life and conduct of this nobleman ; of other women against whom he had plotted , and whom he had overcome ; of the conversation which he Harry himself had had with Lord Mohun , wherein the lord made a boast of his libertinism , and frequently avowed that he held all women to be fair game -LRB- as his lordship styled this pretty sport -RRB- , and that they were all , without exception , to be won . 
And the return Harry had for his entreaties and remonstrances was a fit of anger on Lady Castlewood 's part , who would not listen to his accusations , she said , and retorted that he himself must be very wicked and perverted , to suppose evil designs , where she was sure none were meant . 
`` And this is the good meddlers get of interfering , '' Harry thought to himself , with much bitterness : and his perplexity and annoyance were only the greater , because he could not speak to my Lord Castlewood himself upon a subject of this nature , or venture to advise or warn him regarding a matter so very sacred as his own honour , of which my lord was naturally the best guardian . 
But though Lady Castlewood would listen to no advice from her young dependent , and appeared indignantly to refuse it when offered , Harry had the satisfaction to find that she adopted the council which she professed to reject ; for the next day she pleaded a headache , when my Lord Mohun would have had her drive out , and the next day the headache continued ; and next day , in a laughing gay way she proposed that the children should take her place in his lordship 's car , for they would be charmed with a ride of all things ; and she must not have all the pleasure for herself . 
Under an affected carelessness of demeanour , and though there was no outward demonstration of doubt upon his patron 's part since the quarrel between the two lords , Harry yet saw that Lord Castlewood was watching his guest very narrowly : and caught signs of distrust and smothered rage -LRB- as Harry thought -RRB- which foreboded no good . 
On the point of honour Esmond knew how touchy his patron was : and watched him almost as a physician watches a patient , and it seemed to him that this one was slow to take the disease , though he could not throw off the poison when once it had mingled with his blood . 
In fine , the symptoms seemed to be so alarming to this young physician -LRB- who indeed young as he was had felt the kind pulses of all those dear kinsmen -RRB- , that Harry thought it would be his duty to warn my Lord Mohun , and let him know that his designs were suspected and watched . 
So one day when in rather a pettish humour , his lordship had sent to Lady Castlewood , who had promised to drive with him , and now refused to come , Harry said -- `` My lord , if you will kindly give me a place by your side I will thank you ; I have much to say to you , and would like to speak to you alone . '' 
My lord was always a fine gentleman , and young as he was there was that in Esmond 's manner which showed that he was a gentleman too , and that none might take a liberty with him -- so the pair went out , and mounted the little carriage which was in waiting for them in the court , with its two little cream-coloured Hanoverian horses covered with splendid furniture and champing at the bit . 
`` My lord , '' says Harry Esmond , after they were got into the country , and pointing to my Lord Mohun 's foot , which was swathed in flannel , and put up rather oftentatiously on a cushion -- `` my lord , I studied medicine at Cambridge . '' 
`` Indeed , Parson Frank , '' says he : and are you going to take out a diploma : and cure your fellow-students of the -- '' `` Of the gout , '' says Harry , interrupting him , and looking him hard in the face , `` I know a good deal about the gout . '' 
`` Your lordship would be much better if you took off all that flannel -- it only serves to inflame the toe , '' Harry continued , looking his man full in the face . 
`` If you took off that flannel , and flung that absurd flipper away and wore a boot , '' continues Harry . 
I saw your lordship three days ago run down the gallery fast enough , '' Harry goes on . 
cries my lord , whipping his horses , which went away at a gallop . 
`` You are cool when my lord is drunk , '' Harry continued ; `` your lordship gets the better of my patron . 
says Lord Mohun , who liked Harry Esmond , -- and for whose company and wit , and a certain daring manner Harry had , a great liking too -- `` You young Argus ! 
Harry Mohun will play any man for anything -- always would . '' 
`` You are playing awful stakes , my lord , in my patron 's house , '' Harry said , `` and more games than are on the cards . '' 
cries my lord , turning round , with a flush on his face . 
`` I mean , '' answers Harry in a sarcastick tone , `` that your gout is well -- if ever you had it . '' 
`` 'T is the peace of the family I love best in the world , '' Harry Esmond said warmly -- '' 't is the honour of a noble benefactor -- the happiness of my dear mistress and her children . 
`` My lord , my lord , '' cried Harry , his face flushing and his eyes filling as he spoke , `` I never had a mother , but I love this lady as one . 
Harry Esmond was quit for a fall on the grass , which was so severe , that it stunned him for a minute ; but he got up presently very sick , and bleeding at the nose , but with no other hurt . 
It was young Frank who spied out Lord Mohun 's scarlet coat as he lay on the ground , and the party made up to that unfortunate gentleman and Esmond , who was now standing over him . 
His large perriwig and feathered hat had fallen off , and he was bleeding profusely from a wound on the forehead , and looking , and being , indeed , a corpse . 
They were scarce gone when Harry Esmond , who was , indeed , but just come to himself , be-thought him of a similar accident which he had seen on a ride from Newmarket to Cambridge , and taking off a sleeve of my lord 's coat , Harry , with a penknife , opened a vein in his arm , and was greatly relieved , after a moment , to see the blood flow . 
He was near half-an-hour before he came to himself , by which time Doctor Tusher and little Frank arrived , and found my lord not a corpse indeed , but as pale as one . 
Little Frank and Harry rode together at a foot pace . 
asks Harry . 
Papa says : ` Here 's poor Harry killed , my dear ; ' on which mamma gives a great scream , and oh , Harry ! 
Musing upon this curious history -- for my Lord Mohun 's name was Henry too , and they called each other Frank and Harry often -- and not a little disturbed and anxious , Esmond rode home . 
His dear lady was on the terrace still , one of her women with her , and my lord no longer there . 
`` And so is Harry , too , mamma , '' says little Frank , `` huzzay ! '' 
Harry Esmond got off the horse to run to his mistress , as did little Frank , and one of the grooms took charge of the two beasts , while the other , hat and perriwig in hand , walked by my lord 's bridle to the front gate , which lay half-a-mile away . 
Lady Castlewood said , when Harry Esmond came up , greeting him with one of her shining looks , and a voice of tender welcome ; and she was so kind as to kiss the young man -LRB- 't was the second time she had so honoured him -RRB- , and she walked into the house between him and her son , holding a hand of each . 
His host treated him with a studied and ceremonious courtesy , certainly different from my lord 's usual frank and careless demeanour ; but there was no reason to suppose that the two lords parted otherwise than good friends , though Harry Esmond remarked that my Lord Viscount only saw his guest in company of other persons , and seemed to avoid being alone with him . 
Harry Esmond was witness of the departure . 
His face wore a peculiar livid look , Harry thought . 
He cursed and kicked away his dogs , which came jumping about him -- then he walked up to the fountain in the centre of the court , and leaned against a pillar and looked into the basin . 
As Esmond crossed over to his own room , late the chaplain 's , on the other side of the court , and turned to enter in at the low door , he saw Lady Castlewood looking through the curtains of the great window of the drawing-room over head at my lord as he stood regarding the fountain . 
There was in the court a peculiar silence somehow : and the scene remained long in Esmond 's memory : -- the sky bright over-head : the buttresses of the building , and the sun-dial casting shadow over the gilt memento mori inscribed underneath : the two dogs , a black greyhound and a spaniel nearly white , the one with his face up to the sun , and the other snuffing amongst the grass and stones , and my lord leaning over the fountain , which was plashing audibly . 
It was Lady Castlewood -- she had been laughing all the morning , and especially gay and lively before her husband and his guest , who , as soon as the two gentlemen went together from her room , ran to Harry , the expression of her countenance quite changed now , and with a face and eyes full of care , and said , `` Follow them , Harry , I am sure something has gone wrong . '' 
And so it was that Esmond was made an eaves-dropper at this lady 's orders : and retired to his own chamber , to give himself time in truth to try and compose a story which would soothe his mistress , for he could not but have his own apprehension that some serious quarrel was pending between the two gentlemen . 
`` He paces his room all night : what is it ? 
`` He has sent three letters to London , '' she said , another day . 
`` Indeed , madam , they were to a lawyer , '' Harry answered , who knew of these letters and had seen a part of the correspondence , which related to a new loan my lord was raising : and when the young man remonstrated with his patron , my lord said `` he was only raising money to pay off an old debt on the property which must be discharged . '' 
Harry Esmond 's vacation was just over , and , as hath been said , he was preparing to return to the University for his last term before taking his degree and entering into the Church . 
He had made up his mind for this office , not indeed with that reverence which becomes a man about to enter upon a duty so holy , but with a worldly spirit of acquiescence in the prudence of adopting that profession for his calling . 
It was agreed that his lordship and Harry Esmond should make the journey as far as London together ; and of a Monday morning , the 10th of October , in the year 1700 , they set forwards towards London on horseback . 
The day before being Sunday , and the rain pouring down , the family did not visit church ; and at night my lord read the service to his family , very finely , and with a peculiar sweetness and gravity , -- speaking the parting benediction , Harry thought , as solemn as ever he heard it . 
And he kissed and embraced his wife and children before they went to their own chambers with more fondness than he was ordinarily wont to show , and with a solemnity and feeling , of which they thought in after days with no small comfort . 
says Harry . 
my lord , I will not leave you this night , '' says Harry Esmond . 
But you were always a good lad , Harry , and I loved you , you know I did . 
`` She takes letters from him , '' cries my lord -- `` look here , Harry , '' and he pulled out a paper with a brown stain of blood upon it . 
`` It fell from him that day he was n't killed . 
My mind is made up , Harry Esmond , and whatever the event is I am easy about it . 
Seeing that my lord was bent upon pursuing this quarrel , and that no entreaties would draw him from it , Harry Esmond -LRB- then of a hotter and more impetuous nature than now , when care and reflection , and grey hairs have calmed him -RRB- thought it was his duty to stand by his kind generous patron , and said , -- `` My lord , if you are determined upon war , you must not go into it alone . 
`` Why , Harry , my poor boy , you are bred for a parson , '' says my lord , taking Esmond by the hand very kindly : `` and it were a great pity that you should meddle in the matter . '' 
`` Your lordship thought of being a churchman , once , '' Harry answered , `` and your father 's orders did not prevent him fighting at Castlewood against the Roundheads . 
And then Harry explained , with some blushes and hesitation -LRB- for the matter was delicate , and he feared left , by having put himself forward in the quarrel , he might have offended his patron -RRB- , how he had himself expostulated with the Lord Mohun , and proposed to measure swords with him if need were , and he could not be got to withdraw peaceably in this dispute . 
`` And I should have beat him , sir , '' says Harry , laughing . 
`` By George , Harry ! 
`` You had been better Lord Castlewood than a lazy sot like me , '' he added , drawing his hand across his eyes , and surveying his kinsman with very kind affectionate glances . 
`` Let us take our coats off and have half-an-hour 's practice before night-fall , '' says Harry , after thankfully grasping his patron 's manly hand . 
`` But I shall be by to see fair play , '' cries Harry . 
says Harry , for he saw that the matter had been arranged privately , and before hand , by my lord . 
I am better away , Hal , -- my wife will be all the happier when I am gone , '' says my lord , with a groan , that tore the heart of Harry Esmond so that he fairly broke into a sob over his patron 's kind hand . 
cries Harry . 
`` But , my lord , my name is Harry , '' cried out Esmond , burning red . 
`` You told my lady , ` Harry was killed ! 
This is my kinsman , Harry Esmond . '' 
`` Who brought your bowls for you at Castlewood , sir , '' says Harry , bowing : and the three gentlemen sate down and drank of that bottle of sack which was prepared for them . 
`` Harry is number three , '' says my lord . 
Harry Esmond has thought of that play ever since with a kind of terror , and of Mrs. Bracegirdle , the actress who performed the girl 's part in the comedy . 
All six marched together that way ; the three lords going a-head , Lord Mohun 's captain , and Colonel Westbury , and Harry Esmond , walking behind them . 
As they walked , Westbury told Harry Esmond about his old friend Dick the Scholar , who had got promotion , and was Cornet of the Guards , and had wrote a book called the `` Christian Hero , '' and had all the Guards to laugh at him for his pains , for the Christian Hero was breaking the commandments constantly , Westbury said , and had fought one or two duels already . 
But Harry said no ; he was bent on going through with the business . 
Indeed , he had a plan in his head , which , he thought , might prevent my Lord Viscount from engaging . 
Harry Esmond 's plan was no other than to engage in talk with Lord Mohun , to insult him , and so get the first of the quarrel . 
`` Psha , '' says my Lord Mohun -LRB- whether wishing to save Harry , or not choosing to try the botte de Jesuite , it is not to be known -RRB- -- `` Young gentlemen from College should not play these stakes . 
broke out Harry . 
But my good Lord Viscount saw the move `` I 'll play you for ten moidores , Mohun , '' says he -- `` You silly boy , we do n't play for groats here as you do at Cambridge : '' and Harry who had no such sum in his pocket -LRB- for his half-year 's salary was always pretty well spent before it was due -RRB- fell back with rage and vexation in his heart that he had not money enough to stake . 
`` I thought crowns were rather scarce with the gentlemen of the army , '' says Harry . 
`` They birch fools , '' says Harry , `` and they cane bullies , and they fling puppies into the water . '' 
`` Faith then there 's some escapes drowning , '' says the Captain , who was an Irishman ; and all the gentlemen began to laugh , and made poor Harry only more angry . 
`` Nay nay , gentlemen , two on a side are plenty : '' says Harry 's patron . 
`` Spare the boy , Captain Macartney , '' and he shook Harry 's hand -- for the last time , save one , in his life . 
After being engaged for not more than a couple of minutes , as Harry Esmond thought , -LRB- though being occupied at the time with his own adversary 's point , which was active , he may not have taken a good note of time , -RRB- a cry from the chairmen without , who were smoking their pipes , and leaning over the railings of the field as they watched the dim combat within , announced that some catastrophe had happened which caused Esmond to drop his sword and look round , at which moment his enemy wounded him in the right hand . 
Harry , my boy , are you wounded , too ? 
I loved thee , Harry , and thou must watch over my little Frank -- and -- and carry this little heart to my wife . '' 
When he had looked to my lord , he bandaged up Harry Esmond 's hand -LRB- who , from loss of blood had fainted , too , in the house , and may have been some time unconscious -RRB- ; and when the young man came to himself , you may be sure he eagerly asked what news there were of his dear patron ; on which the surgeon carried him to the room where the Lord Castlewood lay ; who had already sent for a priest ; and desired earnestly , they said , to speak with his kinsman . 
He was lying on a bed , very pale and ghastly , with that fixed , fatal look in his eyes , which betokens death ; and faintly beckoning all the other persons away from him with his hand , and crying out `` Only Harry Esmond , '' the hand fell powerless down on the coverlet , as Harry came forward , and knelt down and kissed it . 
`` Thou art all but a priest , Harry , '' my Lord Viscount gasped out , with a faint smile , and pressure of his cold hand . 
Some things , he said , concerned Harry Esmond as much as they astonished him . 
He was godson to my lord , who had been pupil to his father ; had paid a visit to Castlewood from Oxford more than once ; and it was by his advice , I think , that Harry Esmond was sent to Cambridge , rather than to Oxford , of which place Mr. Atterbury , though a distinguished member , spoke but ill . 
Our messenger found the good priest already at his books , at five o'clock in the morning , and he followed the man eagerly to the house where my poor Lord Viscount lay , -- Esmond watching him , and taking his dying words from his mouth . 
You may be sure that his own prayers and grief accompanied that dying benefactor . 
`` He is on the brink of God 's awful judgment , '' the priest whispered . 
`` He had made his breast clean to me . 
He forgives and believes , and makes restitution . 
He looked at it . 
It swam before his eyes . 
`` 'T is a confession , '' he said . 
It choked the other to hear that rattle in his throat . 
Esmond said , kneeling down , and taking his hand and kissing it . 
`` God bl -- bless , '' ... was all he said . 
The blood rushed from his mouth , deluging the young man . 
And on this he besought Mr. Atterbury to bear the tidings to Castlewood . 
Mr. Atterbury complying kindly , Esmond writ a hasty note on his table-book to my lord 's man , bidding him get the horses for Mr. Atterbury , and ride with him , and send Esmond 's own valise to the Gatehouse prison , whither he resolved to go and give himself up . 
Those may imagine , who have seen Death untimely strike down persons revered and beloved , and know how unavailing consolation is , what was Harry Esmond 's anguish after being an actor in that ghastly midnight scene of blood and homicide . 
He could not , he felt , have faced his dear mistress , and told her that story . 
He was thankful that kind Atterbury consented to break the sad news to her ; but , besides his grief , which he took into prison with him , he had that in his heart which secretly cheered and consoled him . 
A great secret had been told to Esmond by his unhappy stricken kinsman , lying on his deathbed . 
Were he to disclose it , as in equity and honour he might do , the discovery would but bring greater grief upon those whom he loved best in the world , and who were sad enough already . 
Should he bring down shame and perplexity upon all those beings to whom he was attached by so many tender ties of affection and gratitude ? 
degrade his father 's widow ? 
impeach and fully his father 's and kinsman 's honour ? 
And when the struggle was over in Harry 's mind , a glow of righteous happiness filled it ; and it was with grateful tears in his eyes that he returned thanks to God for that decision which he had been enabled to make . 
`` When I was denied by my own blood , '' thought he , `` these dearest friends received and cherished me . 
And with this consoling thought he went away to give himself up at the prison , after kissing the cold lips of his benefactor . 
It was on the third day after he had come to the Gatehouse prison , -LRB- where he lay in no small pain from his wound , which inflamed and ached feverely ;-RRB- and with those thoughts and resolutions that have been just spoke of , to depress , and yet to console him ; that H.Esmond 's keeper came and told him that a visitor was asking for him , and though he could not see her face , which was enveloped in a black hood , her whole figure , too , being veiled and covered with the deepest mourning , Esmond knew at once that his visitor was his dear mistress . 
He got up from his bed , where he was lying , being very weak ; and advancing towards her , as the retiring keeper shut the door upon him and his guest in that sad place , he put forward his left hand -LRB- for the right was wounded and bandaged -RRB- , and he would have taken that kind one of his mistress , which had done so many offices of friendship for him for so many years . 
Her face was ghastly white , as Esmond faw it , looking from the hood ; and her eyes , ordinarily so sweet and tender , were fixed at him with such a tragick glance of woe and anger , as caused the young man , unaccustomed to unkindness from that person , to avert his own glances from her face . 
Why did you stand by at midnight and see him murdered ? 
You were but an orphan child when I first saw you -- when he first saw you , who was so good , and noble , and trusting . 
He would have had you sent away , but like a foolish woman , I besought him to let you stay . 
These words , uttered in the wildness of her grief , by one who was ordinarily quiet , and spoke seldom except with a gentle smile and soothing tone , rung in Esmond 's ear ; and 't is said that he repeated many of them in the fever into which he now fell from his wound , and perhaps from the emotion which such passionate undeserved upbraidings caused him . 
It seemed as if his very sacrifices and love for this lady and her family were to turn to evil and reproach : as if his presence amongst them was indeed a cause of grief , and the continuance of his life but woe and bitterness to theirs . 
As the Lady Castlewood spoke bitterly , rapidly , without a tear , he never offered a word of appeal or remonstrance ; but sate at the foot of his prison-bed , stricken only with the more pain at thinking it was that soft and beloved hand which should stab him so cruelly , and powerless against her fatal sorrow . 
Her words as she spoke struck the chords of all his memory , and the whole of his boyhood and youth passed within him , whilst this lady , so fond and gentle but yesterday , -- this good angel whom he had loved and worshipped , -- stood before him , pursuing him with keen words and aspect malign . 
Esmond saw his mistress still in the room when he awoke from his trance : but she went away without a word ; though the governor 's wife told him that she sate in her room for some time afterward , and did not leave the prison until she heard that Esmond was likely to do well . 
Days afterwards , when Esmond was brought out of a fever which he had , and which attacked him that night pretty sharply , the honest keeper 's wife brought her patient a handkerchief fresh washed and ironed , and at the corner of which he recognised his mistress 's well known cipher and viscountess 's crown . 
`` The lady had bound it round his arm when he fainted , and before she called for help , '' the keeper 's wife said . 
Such were the news , coupled with assertions about her own honesty and that of Molly her maid , who would never have stolen a certain trumpery gold sleeve-button of Mr. Esmond 's that was missing after his fainting fit , that the keeper 's wife brought to her lodger . 
His thoughts followed to that untimely grave , the brave heart , the kind friend , the gallant gentleman , honest of word and generous of thought -LRB- if feeble of purpose , but are his betters much stronger than he ? -RRB- 
Esmond took his handkerchief when his nurse left him , and very likely kissed it , and looked at the bauble embroidered in the corner . 
`` It has cost thee grief enough , '' he thought , `` dear lady , so loving and so tender . 
So Harry Esmond found himself a criminal and a prisoner at two-and-twenty years old ; as for the two colonels , his comrades , they took the matter very lightly . 
His life was changed by that stroke of the sword which destroyed his kind patron 's . 
As he lay in prison old Dr. Tusher fell ill and died ; and Lady Castlewood appointed Thomas Tusher to the vacant living ; about the filling of which she had a thousand times fondly talked to Harry Esmond : how they never should part ; how he should educate her boy ; how to be a country clergyman , like saintly George Herbert or pious Dr. Ken , was the happiness and greatest lot in life ; how -LRB- if he were obstinately bent on it , though , for her part , she owned rather to holding Queen Bess 's opinion , that a bishop should have no wife , and if not a bishop , why a clergyman ? -RRB- 
she would find a good wife for Harry Esmond : and so on , with a hundred pretty prospects told by fireside evenings , in fond prattle , as the children played about the hall . 
And Tusher , for his own part , added that Harry should have his prayers as a friend of his youth , and commended him whilst he was in prison to read certain works of theology , which his Reverence pronounced to be very wholesome for finners in his lamentable condition . 
Harry would have died for his patron , and was held as little better than his murderer : he had sacrificed , she did not know how much , for his mistress , and she threw him aside -- he had endowed her family with all they had , and she talked about giving him alms as to a menial ! 
The grief for his patron 's loss : the pains of his own present position , and doubts as to the future : all these were forgotten under the sense of the consummate outrage which he had to endure , and overpowered by the superior pang of that torture . 
He writ back a letter to Mr. Tusher from his prison , congratulating his Reverence upon his appointment to the living of Castlewood : sarcastically bidding him to follow in the footsteps of his admirable father , whose gown had descended upon him -- thanking her ladyship for her offer of alms , which he said he should trust not to need ; and beseeching her to remember that if ever her determination should change towards him , he would be ready to give her proofs of a fidelity which had never wavered and which ought never to have been questioned by that house . 
The blow had been struck , and he had borne it . 
His cruel Goddess had shaken her wings and fled : and left him alone and friendless , but virtute suâ . 
And he had to bear him up , at once the sense of his right , and the feeling of his wrongs , his honour and his misfortune . 
It was these thoughts regarding the living , far more than any great poignancy of grief respecting the dead , which affected Harry Esmond whilst in prison after his trial : but it may be imagined that he could take no comrade of misfortune into the confidence of his feelings , and they thought it was remorse and sorrow for his patron 's loss which affected the young man , in error of which opinion he chose to leave them . 
As a companion he was so moody and silent that the two officers , his fellow sufferers , left him to himself mostly , liked little very likely what they knew of him , consoled themselves with dice , cards , and the bottle , and whiled away their own captivity in their own way . 
It seemed to Esmond as if he lived years in that prison : and was changed and aged when he came out of it . 
Esmond thought of his early time as a noviciate , and of this past trial as an initiation before entering into life , -- as our young Indians undergo tortures silently before they pass to the rank of warriors in the tribe . 
Among the company which came to visit the two officers was an old acquaintance of Harry Esmond , that gentleman of the Guards -- namely , who had been so kind to Harry when Captain Westbury 's troop had been quartered at Castlewood more than seven years before . 
The two jolly prisoners had been drinking with a party of friends -LRB- for our cellar and that of the keepers of Newgate too , were supplied with endless hampers of Burgundy and Champagne that the friends of the Colonels sent in -RRB- ; and Harry , having no wish for their drink , or their conversation , being too feeble in health for the one , and too sad in spirits for the other , was sitting apart in his little room , reading such books as he had , one evening , when honest Colonel Westbury , flushed with liquor , and always good-humoured in and out of his cups , came laughing into Harry 's closet , and said `` Ho , young Killjoy ! 
`` I wish we could have tried and proved it , Mr. Steele , '' says Esmond , thinking of his dead benefactor , and his eyes filling with tears . 
With the exception of that one cruel letter which he had from his mistress , Mr. Esmond heard nothing from her , and she seemed determined to execute her resolve of parting from him and disowning him . 
But he had news of her , such as it was , which Mr. Steele assiduously brought him from the Prince 's and Princesses ' Court , where our honest captain had been advanced to the post of gentleman waiter . 
`` 'T was a quarrel about play -- on my word , about play , '' Harry said . 
From Mr. Steele , then , who brought the publick rumour , as well as his own private intelligence , Esmond learned the movements of his unfortunate mistress . 
He would speak for hours about them to Harry Esmond ; and , indeed , he could have chosen few subjects more likely to interest the unhappy young man , whose heart was now as always devoted to these ladies ; and who was thankful to all who loved them , or praised them , or wished them well . 
Not that his fidelity was recompensed by any answering kindness , or show of relenting even , on the part of a mistress obdurate now after ten years of love and benefactions . 
The poor young man getting no answer , save Tusher 's , to that letter which he had written , and being too proud to write more , opened a part of his heart to Steele , than whom no man , when unhappy , could find a kinder hearer or more friendly emissary , described -LRB- in words which were no doubt pathetick , for they came imo pectore , and caused honest Dick to weep plentifully -RRB- his youth , his constancy , his fond devotion to that household which had reared him ; his affection , how earned , and how tenderly requited until but yesterday , and -LRB- as far as he might -RRB- the circumstances and causes for which that sad quarrel had made of Esmond a prisoner under sentence , a widow and orphans of those whom in life he held dearest . 
In terms that might well move a harder-hearted man than young Esmond 's confidant ; for , indeed , the speaker 's own heart was half broke as he uttered them ; he described a part of what had taken place in that only sad interview which his mistress had granted him ; how she had left him with anger and almost imprecation , whose words and thoughts until then had been only blessing and kindness ; how she had accused him of the guilt of that blood , in exchange for which he would cheerfully have sacrificed his own -LRB- indeed , in this the Lord Mohun , the Lord Warwick , and all the gentlemen engaged , as well as the common rumour out of doors -- Steele told him -- bore out the luckless young man -RRB- ; and with all his heart , and tears , he besought Mr. Steele to inform his mistress of her kinsman 's unhappiness , and to deprecate that cruel anger she showed him . 
Although the recital of Esmond 's story , and his passionate appeals and remonstrances drew so many tears from Dick who heard them , they had no effect upon the person whom they were designed to move . 
My Lady Viscountess looked out at the two boys at their game , and said -- ` You see , sir , children are taught to use weapons of death as toys , and to make a sport of murder , ' and as she spoke she looked so lovely , and stood there in herself so sad and beautiful an instance of that doctrine whereof I am a humble preacher , that had I not dedicated my little volume of the Christian Hero -- -LRB- I perceive Harry thou hast not cut the leaves of it . 
I think I never saw such a beautiful violet as that of her eyes , Harry . 
`` As I spoke my business , '' Mr. Steele said , `` and narrated to your mistress what all the world knows , and the other side hath been eager to acknowledge -- that you had tried to put yourself between the two lords , and to take your patron 's quarrel on your own point : I recounted the general praises of your gallantry , besides my Lord Mohun 's particular testimony to it : I thought the widow listened with some interest , and her eyes -- I have never seen such a violet , Harry -- looked up at mine once or twice . 
Your poor young kinsman , Harry Esmond , hath told me that he tried to draw the quarrel on himself . ' 
``` Are you come from him ? ' 
I saw Mr. Esmond in his prison , and bade him farewell . 
He brought misery into my house . 
He never should have entered it . ' 
``` Madam , madam , he is not to blame , ' I interposed , continued Mr. Steele . 
I hope thou wilt be out of prison for the first night , Harry . 
And we had leave to walk on the roof , and could see thence Smithfield and the Bluecoat Boys ' School , Gardens , and the Chartreux , where , as Harry Esmond remembered , Dick the Scholar , and his friend Tom Tusher , had had their schooling . 
Harry could never have paid his share of that prodigious heavy reckoning which my landlord brought to his guests once a week : for he had but three pieces in his pockets that fatal night before the duel , when the gentlemen were at cards , and offered to play five . 
But whilst he was yet ill at the Gatehouse , after Lady Castlewood had visited him there , and before his trial , there came one in an orange-tawny coat and blue lace , the livery which the Esmonds always wore , and brought a sealed packet for Mr. Esmond , which contained twenty guineas , and a note saying that a counsel had been appointed for him , and that more money would be forthcoming whenever he needed it . 
Marchioness of Esmond this lady sometimes called herself , in virtue of that patent which had been given by the late King James to Harry Esmond 's father : and in this state she had her train carried by a knight 's wife , a cup and cover of assay to drink from , and fringed cloth . 
Temple Garden , as they rowed by , looked like the garden of Eden to him , and the aspect of the quays , wharves , and buildings by the river , Somerset House , and Westminster -LRB- where the splendid new bridge was just beginning -RRB- , Lambeth tower and palace , and that busy shining scene of the Thames swarming with boats and barges , filled his heart with pleasure and cheerfulness -- as well such a beautiful scene might to one who had been a prisoner so long , and with so many dark thoughts deepening the gloom of his captivity . 
They rowed up at length to the pretty village of Chelsea , where the nobility have many handsome country-houses ; and so came to my Lady Viscountess 's house ; a cheerful new house in the row facing the river , with a handsome garden behind it , and a pleasant look-out both towards Surrey and Kensington , where stands the noble ancient palace of the Lord Warwick , Harry 's reconciled adversary . 
Here in her ladyship 's saloon , the young man saw again some of those pictures which had been at Castlewood , and which she had removed thence on the death of her lord , Harry 's father . 
Esmond recollected from his childhood that rich aroma of musk which his mother-in-law -LRB- for she may be called so -RRB- exhaled . 
He made her such a profound bow as her dignity and relationship merited : and advanced with the greatest gravity and once more kissed that hand upon the trembling knuckles of which glittered a score of rings -- remembering old times when that trembling hand made him tremble . 
`` Marchioness , '' says he , bowing , and on one knee , `` is it only the hand I may have the honour of saluting ? '' 
And now that bar-sinister was removed from Esmond 's thoughts ; and that secret opprobrium no longer cast upon his mind ; he was pleased to feel family ties and own them -- perhaps secretly vain of the sacrifice he had made , and to think that he , Esmond , was really the chief of his house , and only prevented by his own magnanimity from advancing his claim . 
At least , ever since he had learned that secret from his poor patron on his dying bed , actually as he was standing beside it , he had felt an independency which he had never known before , and which since did not desert him . 
So he called his old aunt , Marchioness , but with an air as if he was the Marquis of Esmond who so addressed her . 
Did she read in the young gentleman 's eyes , which had now no fear of hers or their superannuated authority , that he knew or suspected the truth about his birth ? 
She gave a start of surprise at his altered manner ; indeed , it was quite a different bearing to that of the Cambridge student who had paid her a visit two years since , and whom she had dismissed with five pieces sent by the groom of the chamber . 
`` My lady 's virtue is like that of a saint in Heaven , madam , '' he cried out . 
In this way the old dowager rattled on remorselessly to Mr. Esmond , who was quite astounded with her present volubility , contrasting it with her former haughty behaviour to him . 
But she had taken him into favour for the moment , and chose not only to like him , as far as her nature permitted , but to be afraid of him ; and he found himself to be as familiar with her now as a young man , as , when a boy , he had been timorous and silent . 
She presented Mr. Esmond as her kinsman to many persons of honour ; she supplied him not illiberally with money , which he had no scruple in accepting from her , considering the relationship which he bore to her , and the sacrifices which he himself was making in behalf of the family . 
But he had made up his mind to continue at no woman 's apron-strings longer ; and perhaps had cast about how he should distinguish himself , and make himself a name , which his singular fortune had denied him . 
A discontent with his former bookish life and quietude , -- a bitter feeling of revolt at that slavery in which he had chosen to confine himself for the sake of those whose hardness towards him made his heart bleed , -- a restless wish to see men and the world , -- led him to think of the military profession : at any rate , to desire to see a few campaigns , and accordingly he pressed his new patroness to get him a pair of colours ; and one day had the honour of finding himself appointed an ensign in Colonel Quin 's regiment of Fusiliers on the Irish establishment . 
Young as Esmond was , he was wife enough -LRB- and generous enough , too , let it be said , -RRB- to scorn that indecency of gratulation which broke out amongst the followers of King James in London , upon the death of this illustrious prince , this invincible warrior , this wise and moderate statesman . 
His father 's widow had all her hopes , sympathies , recollections , prejudices , engaged on King James 's side ; and was certainly as noisy a conspirator as ever asserted the King 's right or abused his opponents , over a quadrille table or a dish of bohea . 
Esmond remembered a score of marvellous tales , which the credulous old woman told him . 
Of these tales , and a thousand like them , Mr. Esmond believed as much as he chose . 
His kinswoman 's greater faith had swallow for them all . 
In the scholars ' boyish disputes at the University , where parties ran very high , Esmond was noted as a Jacobite , and very likely from vanity as much as affection took the side of his family . 
Before Mr. Esmond left England in the month of August and being then at Portsmouth where he had joined his regiment , and was busy at drill , learning the practice and mysteries of the musket and pike , he heard that a pension on the Stamp Office had been got for his late beloved mistress , and that the young Mistress Beatrix was also to be taken into court . 
From such fitful lights as could be cast upon his dark history by the broken narrative of his poor patron , torn by remorse and struggling in the last pangs of dissolution , Mr. Esmond had been made to understand so far , that his mother was long since dead ; and so there could be no question as regarded her or her honour , tarnished by her husband 's desertion and injury , to influence her son in any steps which he might take either for prosecuting or relinquishing his own just claims . 
As far as Mr. Esmond could gather from his dying words , Holt came to my lord with a plan of insurrection , and offer of the renewal , in his person , of that marquis 's title , which King James had conferred on the preceding viscount ; and on refusal of this bribe , a threat was made , on Holt 's part , to upset my Lord Viscount 's claim to his estate and title of Castlewood altogether . 
Esmond knew how , well enough : by that window from which he had seen the father issue : -- but there was no need to explain to my poor lord , only to gather from his parting lips the words which he would soon be able to utter no more . 
I calculated all my means down to the last shilling , and found I never could pay you back , my poor Harry , whose fortune I had had for twelve years . 
More than once , whilst he was in prison himself , Esmond had thought where those papers could be , which the Jesuit had shown to his patron , and which had such an interest for himself . 
His resolution being taken ; his poor mother dead ; what matter to him that documents existed proving his right to a title which he was determined not to claim , and of which he vowed never to deprive that family which he loved best in the world ? 
Perhaps he took a greater pride out of his sacrifice than he would have had in those honours which he was resolved to forego . 
The mere word of a Jesuit could not overset Frank 's right of occupancy , and so Esmond 's mind felt actually at ease to think the papers were missing , and in their absence his dear mistress and her son the lawful Lady and Lord of Castlewood . 
Very soon after his liberation , Mr. Esmond made it his business to ride to that village of Ealing where he had passed his earliest years in this country , and to see if his old guardians were still alive and inhabitants of that place . 
But the only relique which he found of old M. Pastoureau was a stone in the churchyard , which told that Athanasius Pastoureau , a native of Flanders , lay there buried , aged 87 years . 
The old man 's cottage , which Esmond perfectly recollected , and the garden -LRB- where in his childhood he had passed many hours of play and reverie , and had many a beating from his termagant of a foster-mother , -RRB- were now in the occupation of quite a different family ; and it was with difficulty that he could learn in the village what had come of Pastoureau 's widow and children . 
The clerk of the parish recollected her -- the old man was scarce altered in the fourteen years that had passed since last Esmond set eyes on him -- it appeared she had pretty soon consoled herself after the death of her old husband , whom she ruled over , by taking a new one younger than herself , who spent her money and ill-treated her and her children . 
She and her husband had left Ealing this seven year ; and so Mr. Esmond 's hopes of gaining any information regarding his parentage from this family , were brought to an end . 
He gave the old clerk a crown-piece for his news , smiling to think of the time when he and his little playfellows had slunk out of the churchyard , or hidden behind the gravestones at the approach of this awful authority . 
Who was his mother ? 
Esmond longed to find some one who could answer these questions to him , and thought even of putting them to his aunt the viscountess , who had innocently taken the name which belonged of right to Henry 's mother . 
Father Holt was the only man who could enlighten him , and Esmond felt he must wait until some fresh chance or new intrigue might put him face to face with his old friend , or bring that restless indefatigable spirit back to England again . 
The appointment to his ensigncy , and the preparations necessary for the campaign , presently gave the young gentleman other matters to think of . 
His new patroness treated him very kindly and liberally ; she promised to make interest and pay money , too , to get him a company speedily ; she bade him procure a handsome outfit , both of clothes and of arms , and was pleased to admire him when he made his first appearance in his laced scarlet coat , and to permit him to salute her on the occasion of this interesting investiture . 
She would have him be dressed , she said , as became his father 's son , and paid cheerfully for his five-pound beaver , his black buckled perriwig , and his fine holland shirts , and his swords , and his pistols , mounted with silver . 
Since the day he was born , poor Harry had never looked such a fine gentleman : his liberal stepmother filled his purse with guineas , too , some of which Captain Steele and a few choice spirits helped Harry to spend in an entertainment which Dick ordered -LRB- and , indeed , would have paid for , but that he had no money when the reckoning was called for ; nor would the landlord give him any more credit , -RRB- at the Garter , over against the gate of the Palace , in Pall Mall . 
The old viscountess , indeed , if she had done Esmond any wrong formerly , seemed inclined to repair it by the present kindness of her behaviour : she embraced him copiously at parting , wept plentifully , bade him write by every packet , and gave him an inestimable relick , which she besought him to wear round his neck -- a medal , blessed by I know not what Pope , and worn by his late sacred Majesty King James . 
So Esmond arrived at his regiment with a better equipage than most young officers could afford . 
He was older than most of his seniors , and had a further advantage which belonged but to very few of the army gentlemen in his day -- many of whom could do little more than write their names -- that he had read much , both at home and at the University , was master of two or three languages , and had that further education which neither books nor years will give , but which some men get from the silent teaching of adversity . 
We were off Finisterre on the 31st of July , so Esmond 's table-book informs him ; and on the 8th of August made the rock of Lisbon . 
Perhaps , as Esmond thought of his late despondency and melancholy , and how irremediable it had seemed to him , as he lay in his prison a few months back , he was almost mortified in his secret mind at finding himself so cheerful . 
'T is forty years since Mr. Esmond witnessed those scenes , but they remain as fresh in his memory as on the day when first he saw them as a young man . 
A cloud , as of grief , that had lowered over him , and had wrapped the last years of his life in gloom , seemed to clear away from Esmond during this fortunate voyage and campaign . 
His energies seemed to awaken and to expand , under a cheerful sense of freedom . 
Was his heart secretly glad to have escaped from that fond but ignoble bondage at home ? 
Was it that the inferiority to which the idea of his base birth had compelled him , vanished with the knowledge of that secret , which though , perforce , kept to himself , was yet enough to cheer and console him ? 
But all this eloquence was lost upon the Spaniards , it would seem : the Captain-General of Andalusia would no more listen to us than the Governor of Cadiz ; and in reply to his Grace 's proclamation , the Marquis of Villadarias fired off another , which those who knew the Spanish thought rather the best of the two ; and of this number was Harry Esmond , whose kind Jesuit in old days had instructed him , and now had the honour of translating for his Grace these harmless documents of war . 
There was a hard touch for his Grace , and , indeed , for other generals in Her Majesty 's service , in the concluding sentence of the Don . 
-- or perhaps Esmond 's mother that he had lost and never seen ? 
But though Esmond , for his part , got no share of this fabulous booty , one great prize which he had out of the campaign was , that excitement of action and change of scene , which shook off a great deal of his previous melancholy . 
He learnt at any rate to bear his fate cheerfully . 
He brought back a browned face , a heart resolute enough , and a little pleasant store of knowledge and observation , from that expedition , which was over with the autumn , when the troops were back in England again ; and Esmond giving up his post of secretary to General Lumley , whose command was over , and parting with that officer with many kind expressions of good will on the General 's side , had leave to go to London to see if he could push his fortunes any way further , and found himself once more in his dowager aunt 's comfortable quarters at Chelsea , and in greater favour than ever with the old lady . 
My lady made feasts for him , introduced him to more company , and pushed his fortunes with such enthusiasm and success that she got a promise of a company for him through the Lady Marlborough 's interest , who was graciously pleased to accept of a diamond worth a couple of hundred guineas , which Mr. Esmond was enabled to present to her ladyship through his aunt 's bounty , and who promised that she would take charge of Esmond 's fortune . 
He had the honour to make his appearance at the Queen 's drawing-room occasionally and to frequent my Lord Marlborough 's levees . 
That great man received the young one with very especial favour , so Esmond 's comrades said , and deigned to say that he had received the best reports of Mr. Esmond , both for courage and ability , whereon you may be sure the young gentleman made a profound bow , and expressed himself eager to serve under the most distinguished captain in the world . 
Whilst his business was going on thus prosperously , Esmond had his share of pleasure , too , and made his appearance along with other young gentlemen at the coffee-houses , the theatres , and the Mall . 
He longed to hear of his dear mistress and her family : many a time , in the midst of the gaieties and pleasures of the town , his heart fondly reverted to them ; and often as the young fellows of his society were making merry at the tavern , and calling toasts -LRB- as the fashion of that day was -RRB- over their wine , Esmond thought of persons -- of two fair women , whom he had been used to adore almost , and emptied his glass with a sigh . 
Before Esmond went away on his first campaign , his mistress was still on terms of friendship -LRB- though a poor little chit , a woman that had evidently no spirit in her , & c. -RRB- with the elder Lady Castlewood ; and Mistress Beatrix was allowed to be a beauty . 
My lady went on with more talk of this kind , though , in truth , Esmond had no idea of what she said further , so entirely did her first words occupy his thought . 
No ear had Esmond for anything else , though his patroness chattered on for an hour . 
Some young gentlemen of the town with whom Esmond had made acquaintance had promised to present him to that most charming of actresses , and lively and agreeable of women , Mrs. Bracegirdle , about whom Harry 's old adversary Mohun had drawn swords , a few years before my poor lord and he fell out . 
Time , youth , and good health , new scenes and the excitement of action and a campaign had pretty well brought Esmond 's mourning to an end ; and his comrades said that Don Dismal , as they called him , was Don Dismal no more . 
So when a party was made to dine at the Rose and go to the playhouse afterward , Esmond was as pleased as another to take his share of the bottle and the play . 
'T is true Mr. Esmond often boasted of republican principles and could remember many fine speeches he had made at College and elsewhere , with worth and not birth for a text : but Tom Tusher , to take the place of the noble Castlewood -- faugh ! 
Esmond laughed at all widows , all wives , all women ; and were the banns about to be published , as no doubt they were , that very next sunday at Walcote Church ; Esmond swore that he would be present to shout no ! 
Instead of going to dinner then at the Rose that night , Mr. Esmond bade his servant pack a portmantua and get horses , and was at Farnham , half way on the road to Walcote , thirty miles off , before his comrades had got to their supper after the play . 
He bade his man give no hint to my Lady Dowager 's household of the expedition on which he was going : and as Chelsea was distant from London , the roads bad , and infested by foot-pads ; and Esmond , often in the habit , when engaged in a party of pleasure , of lying at a friend 's lodging in town , there was no need that his old aunt should be disturbed at his absence -- indeed nothing more delighted the old lady than to fancy that Mon cousin , the incorrigible young sinner , was abroad boxing the watch , or scouring St. Giles 's . 
She had a hundred pretty stories about Rochester ; Harry Jermyn , and Hamilton ; and if Esmond would but have run away with the wife even of a citizen , 't is my belief she would have pawned her diamonds -LRB- the best of them went to our Lady of Chaillot -RRB- to pay his damages . 
My lord 's little house of Walcote , which he inhabited before he took his title and occupied the house of Castlewood -- lies about a mile from Winchester , and his widow had returned to Walcote after my lord 's death as a place always dear to her , and where her earliest and happiest days had been spent , cheerfuller than Castlewood , which was too large for her straightened means , and giving her , too , the protection of the ex-Dean , her father . 
So much news of them Mr. Esmond had had during the past year from the old viscountess , his own father 's widow ; from the young one there had never been a word . 
Twice or thrice in his benefactor 's lifetime , Esmond had been to Walcote ; and , now , taking but a couple of hours rest only at the inn on the road , he was up again long before day-break , and made such good speed , that he was at Walcote by two o'clock of the day . 
He rid to the inn of the village , where he alighted and sent a man thence to Mr. Tusher with a message that a gentleman from London would speak with him on urgent business . 
Esmond mounted again , and rode on to the George ; whence he walked , leaving his grumbling domestick at last happy with a dinner , straight to the Cathedral . 
The organ was playing : the winter 's day was already growing grey : as he passed under the street-arch into the cathedral-yard and made his way into the ancient solemn edifice . 
But Dr. Tusher was one of the officiants , and read from the eagle , in an authoritative voice , and a great black perriwig ; and in the stalls , still in her black widow 's hood , sate Esmond 's dear mistress , her son by her side , very much grown , and indeed a noble-looking youth , with his mother 's eyes , and his father 's curling brown hair , that fell over his point de Venise -- a pretty picture such as Vandyke might have painted . 
But the musick ceasing , my lord woke up , looking about him , and his eyes lighting on Mr. Esmond , who was sitting opposite him , gazing with no small tenderness and melancholy upon two persons who had had so much of his heart for so many years ; Lord Castlewood , with a start , pulled at his mother 's sleeve -LRB- her face had scarce been lifted from her book -RRB- , and said , `` Look , mother ! '' 
Lady Castlewood looked for an instant as her son bade her , and held up a warning finger to Frank ; Esmond felt his whole face flush , and his heart throbbing , as that dear lady beheld him once more . 
The rest of the prayers were speedily over : Mr. Esmond did not hear them ; nor did his mistress , very likely , whose hood went more closely over her face , and who never lifted her head again until the service was over , the blessing given , and Mr. Dean , and his procession of ecclesiasticks , out of the inner chapel . 
Young Castlewood came clambering over the stalls before the clergy were fairly gone , and running up to Esmond , eagerly embraced him . 
`` My dear , dearest old Harry , '' he said , `` are you come back ? 
Mr. Esmond could hardly say more than a God bless you , my boy , for his heart was very full and grateful at all this tenderness on the lad 's part ; and he was as much moved at seeing Frank , as he was fearful about that other interview which was now to take place ; for he knew not if the widow would reject him as she had done so cruelly a year ago . 
He would have given one of his eyes so that he might see his dear friends again once more ; but believing that his mistress had forbidden him her house , he had obeyed her , and remained at a distance . 
`` You had but to ask , and you knew I would be here , '' he said . 
She gave him her hand , her little fair hand : there was only her marriage ring on it . 
His mistress had never been out of his mind all that time . 
No , not in the prison ; nor in the camp ; nor on shore before the enemy ; nor at sea under the stars of solemn midnight , nor as he watched the glorious rising of the dawn : not even at the table where he sate carousing with friends , or at the theatre yonder where he tried to fancy that other eyes were brighter than hers . 
Brighter eyes there might be , and faces more beautiful , but none so dear -- no voice so sweet as that of his beloved mistress , who had been sister , mother , goddess to him during his youth -- goddess now no more , for he knew of her weaknesses ; and by thought , by suffering , and that experience it brings , was older now than she ; but more fondly cherished as woman perhaps than ever she had been adored as divinity . 
How had Harry Esmond ever been for a moment jealous of this fellow ? 
`` Give us thy hand , Tom Tusher , '' he said . 
The chaplain made him a very low and stately bow . 
`` I am charmed to see Captain Esmond , '' says he . 
`` A house that has so many sacred recollections to me , '' says Mr. Tusher -LRB- and Harry remembered how Tom 's father used to flog him there -RRB- -- `` a house near to that of my respected patron , my most honoured patroness , must ever be a dear abode to me . 
`` And Harry 's coming home to supper . 
Beatrix is a maid of honour , Harry . 
`` Your heart was never in the Church , Harry , '' the widow said , in her sweet low tone , as they walked away together . 
`` But to go was best , Harry . 
When the world can not give peace , you will know where to find it ; but one of your strong imagination and eager desires must try the world first before he tires of it . 
And should her mind change , '' he added gaily , `` as ladies ' minds will , I am strong enough to bear my own burthen , and make my way somehow . 
Indeed , he had found patrons already in the army , and amongst persons very able to serve him , too ; and told his mistress of the flattering aspect of fortune . 
`` I knew you would come , Harry , if -- if it was but to forgive me for having spoken unjustly to you after that horrid -- horrid misfortune . 
dear Henry , '' says the lady , pressing his arm . 
`` I know it , I know it , '' she answered , in a tone of such sweet humility , as made Esmond repent that he should ever have dared to reproach her . 
She smiled an almost wild smile , as she looked up at him . 
He could see , for the first time now clearly , her sweet care-worn face . 
My lord was cold , and my Harry was likely to die ; and my brain was in a fever ; and we had no wine . 
`` He has none but me now ; for soon my sister will leave him , and the old man will be alone . 
`` Hush , '' she said again , and raised her hand up to his lip . 
You could not see me , Harry , when you were in the small-pox , and I came and sate by you . 
And as a brother folds a sister to his heart ; and as a mother cleaves to her son 's breast -- so for a few moments Esmond 's beloved mistress came to him and blessed him . 
A sweet rosy smile blushed on her face ; Harry thought he had never seen her look so charming . 
`` Welcome , Harry ! '' 
he burst into a laugh . 
Esmond had lest a child , and found a woman , grown beyond the common height ; and arrived at such a dazzling completeness of beauty , that his eyes might well show surprise and delight at beholding her . 
In hers there was a brightness so lustrous and melting , that I have seen a whole assembly follow her as if by an attraction irresistible : and that night the great Duke was at the play-house after Ramillies , every soul turned and looked -LRB- she chanced to enter at the opposite side of the theatre at the same moment -RRB- at her , and not at him . 
She advanced holding forward her head , as if she would have him kiss her as he used to do when she was a child . 
Welcome , cousin Harry , '' and she made him an arch curtsey , sweeping down to the ground almost , with the most gracious bend , looking up the while with the brightest eyes and sweetest smile . 
Harry eyed her with such a rapture as the first lover is described as having by Milton . 
Esmond turned round with a start and a blush , as he met his mistress 's clear eyes . 
He had forgotten her , wrapt in admiration of the filia pulcrior . 
They 've silver clocks , Harry . 
says Miss , smothering her brother with kisses ; and then she must come and kiss her mamma , looking all the while at Harry , over his mistress 's shoulder . 
And if she did not kiss him , she gave him both her hands , and then took one of his in both hands , and said , `` Oh , Harry , we 're so , so glad you 're come ! '' 
`` And it is the 29th of December ; and our Harry has come home . '' 
She would have Harry lead in Beatrix to the supper-room , going herself with my young Lord Viscount ; and to this party came Tom Tusher directly , whom four at least out of the company of five , wished away . 
Away he went , however , as soon as the sweetmeats were put down , and then , by the great crackling fire , his mistress or Beatrix with her blushing graces filling his glass for him , Harry told the story of his campaign , and passed the most delightful night his life had ever known . 
The sun was up long ere he was , so deep , sweet , and refreshing was his slumber . 
He woke as if angels had been watching at his bed all night . 
Next morning the chaplain read prayers to the little household at Walcote , as the custom was ; Esmond thought Mistress Beatrix did not listen to Tusher 's exhortation much ; her eyes were wandering everywhere during the service , at least whenever he looked up he met them . 
Perhaps he also was not very attentive to his Reverence the chaplain . 
`` This might have been my life , '' he was thinking ; `` this might have been my duty from now till old age . 
Until -- until the destined lover comes and takes away pretty Beatrix '' -- and the best part of Tom Tusher 's exposition , which may have been very learned and eloquent , was quite lost to poor Harry by this vision of the destined lover , who put the preacher out . 
All the while of the prayers , Beatrix knelt a little way before Harry Esmond . 
All the roses of spring could not vie with the brightness of her complexion ; Esmond thought he had never seen anything like the sunny lustre of her eyes . 
says Beatrix , turning full round on Esmond , with her pretty face so close under his chin , that the soft perfumed hair touched it . 
She laid her finger-tips on his sleeve as she spoke ; and he put his other hand over hers . 
`` I 'm like your looking-glass , '' says he , `` and that ca n't flatter you . '' 
`` And Harry is very good to look at , '' says my lady , with her fond eyes regarding the young man . 
My lady said Amen , with a sigh ; and Harry thought the memory of her dead lord rose up and rebuked her back again into sadness ; for her face lost the smile , and resumed its look of melancholy . 
`` Why , Harry , how fine we look in our scarlet and silver , and our black perriwig , '' cries my lord . 
Where did you get your steenkirk , Harry ? '' 
`` It 's some of my Lady Dowager 's lace , '' says Harry ; `` she gave me this and a number of other fine things . '' 
`` I 'll tell her you said so ; by the Lord , ` Trix , I will , '' he cries out . 
`` We wo n't quarrel the first day Harry 's here , will we , mother ? '' 
`` I say , Harry , '' my lord goes on , `` I 'll show thee my horses after breakfast ; and we 'll go a bird-netting to-night , and on Monday there 's a cock-match at Winchester -- do you love cock-fighting , Harry ? 
Harry thought if he had wanted a subject for verses yesterday , to-day he had found one : and not all the Lindamiras and Ardelias of the poets were half so beautiful as this young creature ; but he did not say so , though some one did for him . 
This was his dear lady who , after the meal was over , and the young people were gone , began talking of her children with Mr. Esmond , and of the characters of one and the other , and of her hopes and fears for both of them . '' 
We look when you do n't fancy us looking , and see better than you think , dear Harry : and just now when they spoke about your poems -- you writ pretty lines when you were but a boy -- you thought Beatrix was a pretty subject for verse , did not you , Harry ? 
And , looking at him keenly with hers , the fair widow left him . 
I think his old grandfather , the Dean , and the grim old housekeeper , Mrs. Pincot , were as much his slaves as his mother was : and as for Esmond , he found himself presently submitting to a certain fascination the boy had , and slaving it like the rest of the family . 
The pleasure which he had in Harry 's mere company and converse , exceeded that which he ever enjoyed in the society of any other man , however delightful in talk , or famous for wit . 
Sitting at dinner two days after Esmond 's arrival -LRB- it was the last day of the year -RRB- , and so happy a one to Harry Esmond , that to enjoy it was quite worth all the previous pain which he had endured and forgot : my young lord , filling a bumper , and bidding Harry take another , drank to his sister , saluting her under the title of `` Marchioness . '' 
says Harry , not without a pang of wonder , for he was curious and jealous already . 
`` 'T is true , on my word , '' continues Frank : `` look at Harry scowling , mother , and see how Beatrix blushes as red as the silver-clocked stockings . '' 
`` Do not tell those silly stories , child , '' she said : `` do not drink much wine , sir ; Harry never loved to drink wine . '' 
`` Why , I came home in that ship , '' says Harry . 
`` I say , Harry , I wish thou hadst not that cursed bar sinister . '' 
Look at Blandford 's father , Duke Churchill , and Duchess Jennings , what were they , Harry ? 
I had many a night with my father ; you stood to him like a man , Harry . 
The elder said , he would go in to his mistress 's tea-table . 
Esmond heard him presently calling his dogs about him , and cheering and talking to them ; and by a hundred of his looks and gestures , tricks of voice and gait , was reminded of the dead lord , Frank 's father . 
Esmond heard the chimes as he sat in his own chamber , ruminating by the blazing fire there , and listened to the last notes of them , looking out from his window towards the city , and the great grey towers of the Cathedral lying under the frosty sky , with the keen stars shining above . 
The sight of these brilliant orbs no doubt made him think of other luminaries . 
Luckily his kinsman was by , and Esmond knew he would have no difficulty in finding out Mistress Beatrix 's history from the simple talk of the boy . 
What Harry admired and submitted to in the pretty lad , his kinsman , was -LRB- for why should he resist it ? -RRB- 
`` I know my place , Harry , '' he said . 
You should know that -- you are of our family , you know -- you can not help your bar sinister , Harry , my dear fellow ; and you belong to one of the best families in England , in spite of that ; and you stood by my father , and by G -- ! 
You shall never want a friend , Harry , while Francis James Viscount Castlewood has a shilling . 
But when I am of age , these things will be set right , Harry . 
I shall marry early -- ` Trix will be a duchess by that time , most likely ; for a cannonball may knock over his Grace any day , you know . '' 
says Harry . 
I have tried him , Harry ; and begad , he knows I am a man not to be trifled with . '' 
`` But you do not mean , '' says Harry , concealing his laughter , but not his wonder , `` that you can force my Lord Blandford , the son of the first man of this kingdom , to marry your sister at sword 's point ? '' 
There are but two marquises in all England , William Herbert , Marquis of Powis , and Francis James , Marquis of Esmond ; and hark you , Harry , now swear you 'll never mention this . 
Give me your honour , as a gentleman , for you are a gentleman , though you are a -- '' `` Well , well , '' says Harry , a little impatient . 
And then ... I say , Harry , you wo n't tell , now ? '' 
Harry again made a vow of secrecy . 
And he wrote a paper -LRB- it was n't spelt right , for he wrote ` I 'm ready to sine with my blode , ' which you know , Harry , is n't the way of spelling it -RRB- , and vowing that he would marry none other but the Honourable Mistress Gertrude Beatrix Esmond , only sister of his dearest friend Francis James , fourth Viscount Esmond . 
And so I gave him a locket of her hair . '' 
I 'm sure I did n't want it ; and so I gave it him , and we kissed at parting , and said -- ` Good-bye , brother . ' 
And he went to King 's College , in Cambridge , and I 'm going to Cambridge soon ; and if he does n't stand to his promise -LRB- for he 's only wrote once , -RRB- -- he knows I wear a sword , Harry . 
`` ... But I say , '' he added , laughing , after a pause , `` I do n't think ` Trix will break her heart about him . 
`` A word from me , '' Harry thought , `` a syllable of explanation , and all this might be changed ; but no , I swore it over the dying bed of my benefactor . 
The next day , although Esmond gave no sign of what was going on in his mind , but strove to be more than ordinarily gay and cheerful when he met his friends at the morning meal , his dear mistress , whose clear eyes it seemed no emotion of his could escape , perceived that something troubled him , for she looked anxiously towards him more than once during the breakfast , and when he went up to his chamber afterwards she presently followed him , and knocked at his door . 
`` I had but three days leave from Chelsea , '' Esmond said , as gaily as he could . 
`` I have no need to read the letter , '' says she -- -LRB- indeed , 't was as well she did not ; for the Chelsea missive , in the poor dowager 's usual French jargon , permitted him a longer holiday than he said . 
If I thought for an hour of what has perhaps crossed your mind too -- '' `` Yes , I did , Harry , '' said she ; `` I thought of it ; and think of it . 
Harry , Harry , it is none of these follies that frighten me , '' cried out Lady Castlewood . 
No , never , never , and 't is not you , dear Harry , that is unworthy . 
In after life , did Esmond find the words true which his fond mistress spoke from her sad heart ? 
Warning he had : but I doubt others had warning before his time , and since : and he benefited by it as most men do . 
My young Lord Viscount was exceeding sorry when he heard that Harry could not come to the cock-match with him , and must go to London ; but no doubt my lord consoled himself when the Hampshire cocks won the match ; and he saw every one of the battles , and crowed properly over the conquered Sussex gentlemen . 
As Esmond rode towards town his servant coming up to him informed him with a grin , that Mistress Beatrix had brought out a new gown , and blue stockings for that day 's dinner , in which she intended to appear , and had flown into a rage and given her maid a slap on the face soon after she heard he was going away . 
Mistress Beatrix 's woman , the fellow said , came down to the servants ' hall , crying , and with the mark of a blow still on her cheek : but Esmond peremptorily ordered him to fall back and be silent , and rode on with thoughts enough of his own to occupy him -- some sad ones , some inexpressibly dear and pleasant . 
His mistress , from whom he had been a year separated , was his dearest mistress again . 
The family from which he had been parted , and which he loved with the fondest devotion , was his family once more . 
If Beatrix 's beauty shone upon him , it was with a friendly lustre , and he could regard it with much such a delight as he brought away after seeing the beautiful pictures of the smiling Madonnas in the convent at Cadiz , when he was dispatched thither with a flag : and as for his mistress , 't was difficult to say with what a feeling he regarded her . 
'T was happiness to have seen her : 't was no great pang to part ; a filial tenderness , a love that was at once respect and protection filled his mind as he thought of her ; and near her or far from her , and from that day until now , and from now till death is past , and beyond it , he prays that sacred flame may ever burn . 
Mr. Esmond rode up to London then , where , if the dowager had been angry at the abrupt leave of absence he took , she was mightily pleased at his speedy return . 
He went immediately and paid his court to his new general , General Lumley , who received him graciously , having known his father , and also , he was pleased to say , having had the very best accounts of Mr. Esmond from the officer whose aide-de-camp he had been at Vigo . 
During this winter Mr. Esmond was gazetted to a lieutenantcy in Brigadier Webb 's regiment of Fusileers , then with their colonel in Flanders ; but being now attached to the suite of Mr. Lumley , Esmond did not join his own regiment until more than a year afterwards , and after his return from the campaign of Blenheim , which was sought the next year . 
His Grace joined the army in deep grief of mind , with crape on his sleeve , and his household in mourning ; and the very same packet which brought the Commander-in-Chief over , brought letters to the forces which preceded him , and one from his dear mistress to Esmond , which interested him not a little . 
The young Marquis of Blandford , his Grace 's son , who had been entered in King 's College in Cambridge -LRB- whither my Lord Viscount had also gone , to Trinity , with Mr. Tusher as his governor -RRB- , had been seized with small-pox , and was dead at sixteen years of age , and so poor Frank 's schemes for his sister 's advancement were over , and that innocent childish passion nipped in the birth . 
Esmond 's mistress would have had him return , at least her letters hinted as much ; but in the presence of the enemy this was impossible , and our young man took his humble share in the siege , which need not be described here , and had the good luck to escape without a wound of any sort , and to drink his general 's health after the surrender . 
The Foot and Artillery under General Churchill passed the Neckar , at Heidelberg ; and Esmond had an opportunity of seeing that city and palace , once so famous and beautiful -LRB- though shattered and battered by the French , under Turenne , in the late war -RRB- , where his grandfire had served the beautiful and unfortunate Electress-Palatine , the first King Charles 's sister . 
Beyond this moment , and of this famous victory , Mr. Esmond knows nothing ; for a shot brought down his horse and our young gentleman on it , who fell crushed and stunned under the animal ; and came to his senses he knows not how long after , only to lose them again from pain and loss of blood . 
A dim sense , as of people groaning round about him , a wild incoherent thought or two for her who occupied so much of his heart now , and that here his career , and his hopes , and misfortunes were ended , he remembers in the course of these hours . 
When he woke up it was with a pang of extreme pain , his breastplate was taken off , his servant was holding his head up , the good and faithful lad of HampshireMy mistress before I went this campaign sent me John Lockwood out of Walcote , who hath ever since remained with me . 
But for honest Lockwood 's faithful search after his master there had no doubt been an end of Esmond here , and of this his story . 
The marauders were out rifling the bodies as they lay on the field , and Jack had brained one of these gentry with the club-end of his musket , who had eased Esmond of his hat and perriwig , his purse , and fine silver-mounted pistols , which the dowager gave him , and was fumbling in his pockets for further treasure , when Jack Lockwood came up and put an end to the scoundrel 's triumph . 
Hospitals for our wounded were established at Blenheim , and here for several weeks Esmond lay in very great danger of his life ; the wound was not very great , from which he suffered , and the ball extracted by the surgeon on the spot where our young gentleman received it ; but a fever set in next day , as he was lying in hospital , and that almost carried him away . 
Jack Lockwood said he talked in the wildest manner , during his delirium ; that he called himself the Marquis of Esmond , and seizing one of the surgeon 's assistants who came to dress his wounds , swore that he was Madam Beatrix , and that he would make her a duchess if she would but say yes . 
He was passing the days in these crazy fancies , and vana somnia , whilst the army was singing Te Deum for the victory , and those famous festivities were taking place at which our Duke , now made a Prince of the Empire , was entertained by the King of the Romans and his nobility . 
His Grace went home by Berlin and Hanover , and Esmond lost the festivities which took place at those cities , and which his general shared in company of the other general officers who travelled with our great captain . 
When he could move it was by the Duke of Wirtemburg 's city of Stuttgard that he made his way homewards , revisiting Heidelberg again , whence he went to Manheim , and hence had a tedious but easy water journey down the river of Rhine , which he had thought a delightful and beautiful voyage indeed , but that his heart was longing for home , and something far more beautiful and delightful . 
As bright and welcome as the eyes almost of his mistress shone the lights of Harwich , as the packet came in from Holland . 
It was not many hours ere he , Esmond , was in London , of that you may be sure , and received with open arms by the old dowager of Chelsea , who vowed in her jargon of French and English , that he had the air noble , that his pallor embellished him , that he was an Amadis and deserved a Gloriana , and , oh ! 
what was his joy at hearing that his mistress was come into waiting , and was now with her Majesty at Kensington ! 
Although Mr. Esmond had told Jack Lockwood to get horses and they would ride for Winchester that night ; when he heard this news he counter-manded the horses at once ; his business lay no longer in Hants ; all his hope and desire lay within a couple of miles of him in Kensington Park wall . 
Poor Harry had never looked in the glass before so eagerly to see whether he had the bel air , and his paleness really did become him : he never took such pains about the curl of his perriwig , and the taste of his embroidery and point-lace , as now , before Mr. Amadis presented himself to Madam Gloriana . 
Was the fire of the French lines half so murderous as the killing glances from her ladyship 's eyes ? 
And as , before the blazing sun of morning , the moon fades away in the sky almost invisible ; -- Esmond thought , with a blush perhaps , of another sweet pale face , sad and faint , and fading out of sight , with its sweet fond gaze of affection ; such a last look it seemed to cast as Eurydice might have given , yearning after her lover , when fate and Pluto summoned her , and she passed away into the shades . 
Any taste for pleasure which Esmond had -LRB- and he liked to desipere in loco , neither more nor less than most young men of his age -RRB- he could now gratify , to the utmost extent , and in the best company which the town afforded . 
But being aide-de-camp to General Lumley , who commanded the division of Horse , and the army marching to its point of destination on the Danube by different routes , Esmond had not fallen in , as yet , with his commander and future comrades of the fort ; and it was in London , in Golden Square , where Major-General Webb lodged , that Captain Esmond had the honour of first paying his respects to his friend , patron , and commander of after days . 
Should any child of mine take the pains to read these , his ancestor 's memoirs , I would not have him judge of the great DukeThis passage in the Memoirs of Esmond is written on a leaf inserted into the MS. book and dated 1744 , probably after he had heard of the Duchess 's death . 
by what a cotemporary has written of him . 
Had the great man said but a word of kindness to the small one -LRB- as he would have stepped out of his gilt chariot to shake hands with Lazarus in rags and sores , if he thought Lazarus could have been of any service to him -RRB- , no doubt Esmond would have fought for him with pen and sword to the utmost of his might ; but my lord the lion did not want master mouse at this moment , and so Muscipulus went off and nibbled in opposition . 
Esmond 's friend , Dick Steele , who was in waiting on the Prince , heard the controversy between the ladies at court , `` And faith , '' says Dick , `` I think , Harry , thy kinswoman had the worst of it . '' 
He could not keep the story quiet ; 't was all over the coffee-houses ere night ; it was printed in a News Letter before a month was over , and `` The Reply of her Grace the Duchess of M-rlb-r-gh to a Popish Lady of the Court once a favourite of the late K * J-m-s '' was printed in half a dozen places , with a note stating that `` this duchess , when the head of this lady 's family came by his death lately in a fatal duel , never rested until she got a pension for the orphan heir , and widow , from her Majesty 's bounty . '' 
The squabble did not advance poor Esmond 's promotion much , and indeed made him so ashamed of himself that he dared not show his face at the Commander-in-Chief 's levees again . 
During those eighteen months which had passed since Esmond saw his dear mistress , her good father , the old Dean , quitted this life , firm in his principles to the very last , and enjoining his family always to remember that the Queen 's brother , King James the Third , was their rightful sovereign . 
With this little fortune Lady Castlewood was enabled , when her daughter 's turn at court came , to come to London , where she took a small genteel house at Kensington in the neighbourhood of the Court , bringing her children with her , and here it was that Esmond found his friends . 
As for the young lord , his university career had ended rather abruptly . 
Honest Tusher , his governor , had found my young gentleman quite ungovernable . 
She would have liked him to be in Mr. Esmond 's regiment , hoping that Harry might act as guardian and adviser to his wayward young kinsman ; but my young lord would hear of nothing but the Guards , and a commission was got for him in the Duke of Ormond 's regiment ; so Esmond found my lord , ensign and lieutenant when he returned from Germany after the Blenheim campaign . 
The old dowager at Chelsea , though she could never be got to acknowledge that Mistress Beatrix was any beauty at all -LRB- in which opinion , as it may be imagined , a vast number of the ladies agreed with her -RRB- , yet , on the very first sight of young Castlewood , she owned she fell in love with him ; and Henry Esmond , on his return to Chelsea , found himself quite superseded in her favour by her younger kinsman . 
Esmond had his own opinion about the countrified Walcote widow , who had a quiet grace , and serene kindness , that had always seemed to him the perfection of good breeding , though he did not try to argue this point with his aunt . 
But he could agree in most of the praises which the enraptured old dowager bestowed on my Lord Viscount , than whom he never beheld a more fascinating and charming gentleman . 
Meanwhile Madam Beatrix was making her conquests on her own side , and amongst them was one poor gentleman , who had been shot by her young eyes two years before , and had never been quite cured of that wound ; he knew , to be sure , how hopeless any passion might be , directed in that quarter , and had taken that best , though ignoble , remedium amoris , a speedy retreat from before the charmer , and a long absence from her ; and not being dangerously smitten in the first instance , Esmond pretty soon got the better of his complaint , and if he had it still , did not know he had it , and bore it easily . 
But when he returned after Blenheim , the young lady of sixteen , who had appeared the most beautiful object his eyes had ever looked on two years back , was now advanced to a perfect ripeness and perfection of beauty such as instantly enthralled the poor devil , who had already been a fugitive from her charms . 
His friend Dick Steele was at this time courting the young lady , Mrs. Scurlock , whom he married ; she had a lodging in Kensington Square , hard by my Lady Castlewood 's house there . 
Dick and Harry being on the same errand used to meet constantly at Kensington . 
-- the clear eyes of Esmond 's mistress : he told her all ; what will a man not do when frantick with love ? 
Esmond never so much as thought of asking permission to hope so far above his reach as he knew this prize was -- and passed his foolish , useless life in mere abject sighs and impotent longing . 
What nights of rage , what days of torment , of passionate unfulfilled desire , of sickening jealousy , can he recal ! 
Beatrix thought no more of him than of the lacquey that followed her chair . 
His complaints did not touch her in the least ; his raptures rather fatigued her ; she cared for his verses no more than for Dan Chaucer 's , who 's dead these ever so many hundred years ; she did not hate him ; she rather despised him , and just suffered him . 
One day , after talking to Beatrix 's mother , his dear , fond , constant mistress -- for hours -- for all day along -- pouring out his flame and his passion , his despair and rage , returning again and again to the theme , pacing the room , tearing up the flowers on the table , twisting and breaking into bits the wax out of the stand-dish , and performing a hundred mad freaks of passionate folly ; seeing his mistress at last quite pale and tired out with sheer weariness of compassion , and watching over his fever for the hundredth time , Esmond seized up his hat , and took his leave . 
As he got into Kensington Square , a sense of remorse came over him for the wearisome pain he had been inflicting upon the dearest and kindest friend ever man had . 
He went back to the house , where the servant still stood at the open door , ran up the stairs , and found his mistress where he had left her in the embrasure of the window , looking over the fields towards Chelsea . 
Dick Steele liked the guard-table better than his own at the gentleman usher 's , where there was less wine and more ceremony ; and Esmond had many a jolly afternoon in company of his friend , and a hundred times at least saw Dick into his chair . 
`` Harry Esmond , come hither , '' cries out Dick . 
So Esmond , at the request of his host , told him what he knew about the famous battle , drew the river on the table , aliquo mero , and with the aid of some bits of tobacco-pipe , showed the advance of the left wing , where he had been engaged . 
''' `` There were as brave men on that field , '' says Mr. Esmond -LRB- who never could be made to love the Duke of Marlborough , nor to forget those stories which he used to hear in his youth regarding that great chief 's selfishness and treachery -RRB- , `` there were men at Blenheim as good as the leader , whom neither knights or senators applauded , nor voices plebeian or patrician favoured , and who lie there forgotten , under the clods . 
A couple of days after , when Mr. Esmond revisited his poetick friend , he found this thought , struck out in the fervour of conversation improved and shaped into those famous lines , which are in truth the noblest in the poem of the `` Campaign . '' 
I have the honour to introduce him to Mr. Boyle ; and Mr. Esmond was but now depicting aliquo prælia mixta mero , when you came in . '' 
Gay as the town was , 't was but a dreary place for Mr. Esmond , whether his charmer was in it or out of it , and he was glad when his general gave him notice that he was going back to his division of the army which lay in winter-quarters at Bois-le-Duc . 
His dear mistress bade him farewell with a cheerful face ; her blessing he knew he had always , and wheresoever fate carried him . 
Harry did not see his viscount again , until three months after , at Bois-le-Duc , when his Grace the Duke came to take the command , and Frank brought a budget of news from home : how he had supped with this actress , and got tired of that ; how he had got the better of Mr. St. John , both over the bottle , and with Mrs. Mountford , of the Haymarket Theatre -LRB- a veteran charmer of fifty , with whom the young scape-grace chose to fancy himself in love -RRB- ; how his sister was always at her tricks , and had jilted a young baron for an old earl . 
`` I ca n't make out Beatrix , '' he said ; `` she cares for none of us -- she only thinks about herself ; she is never happy unless she is quarrelling ; but as for my mother , -- my mother , Harry , is an angel . '' 
Harry tried to impress on the young fellow the necessity of doing everything in his power to please that angel ; not to drink too much ; not to go into debt ; not to run after the pretty Flemish girls , and so forth , as became a senior speaking to a lad . 
Neither he nor they belied their character for gallantry on this occasion ; but it was about his dear young lord that Esmond was anxious , never having sight of him save once , in the whole course of the day , when he brought an order from the Commander-in-Chief to Mr. Webb . 
Esmond made his way , and not without danger and difficulty , to his Grace 's head-quarters , and found for himself very quickly where the aides-de-camp ' quarters were , in an out-building of a farm , where several of these gentlemen were seated , drinking and singing , and at supper . 
If he had any anxiety about his boy , 't was relieved at once . 
When the song was over Esmond entered the room , where he knew several of the gentlemen present , and there sat my young lord , having taken off his cuirass , his waistcoat open , his face flushed , his long yellow hair hanging over his shoulders , drinking with the rest ; the youngest , gayest , handsomest there . 
As soon as he saw Esmond , he clapped down his glass , and , running towards his friend , put both his arms round him and embraced him . 
The other 's voice trembled with joy as he greeted the lad ; he had thought but now as he stood in the court-yard under the clear-shining moonlight ; `` Great God ! 
As Esmond embraced his young pupil now , 't was with the feeling of quite religious thankfulness , and an almost paternal pleasure that he beheld him . 
Round his neck was a star with a striped ribbon , that was made of small brilliants and might be worth a hundred crowns . 
`` Look , '' says he , `` wo n't that be a pretty present for mother ? '' 
`` Who gave you the Order , '' says Harry , saluting the gentleman : `` did you win it in battle ? '' 
I should like to have a fight every day ; '' and he pulled at his little moustache and bade a servant bring a supper to Captain Esmond . 
Harry fell to with a very good appetite ; he had tasted nothing since twenty hours ago , at early dawn . 
Esmond 's general and his Grace the Prince-Duke were notoriously at variance , and the former 's friendship was in no wise likely to advance any man 's promotion , of whose services Webb spoke well ; but rather likely to injure him , so the army said , in the favour of the greater man . 
However , Mr. Esmond had the good fortune to be mentioned very advantageously by Major-General Webb in his report after the action ; and the major of his regiment and two of the captains having been killed upon the day of Ramillies , Esmond , who was second of the lieutenants , got his company , and had the honour of serving as Captain Esmond in the next campaign . 
My lord went home in the winter , but Esmond was afraid to follow him . 
His dear mistress wrote him letters more than once , thanking him , as mothers know how to thank , for his care and protection of her boy , extolling Esmond 's own merits with a great deal more praise than they deserved ; for he did his duty no better than any other officer ; and speaking sometimes , though gently and cautiously , of Beatrix . 
At any rate , Harry was best away from the fatal object which always wrought him so much mischief ; and so he never asked for leave to go home , but remained with his regiment that was garrisoned in Brussels , which city fell into our hands when the victory of Ramillies drove the French out of Flanders . 
Something familiar in the figure and posture of the kneeling man struck Captain Esmond , even before he saw the officer 's face . 
As he rose up , putting away into his pocket a little black breviary , such as priests use , Esmond beheld a countenance so like that of his friend and tutor of early days , Father Holt , that he broke out into an exclamation of astonishment and advanced a step towards the gentleman , who was making his way out of church . 
The German officer too looked surprised when he saw Esmond , and his face from being pale grew suddenly red . 
By this mark of recognition , the Englishman knew that he could not be mistaken ; and though the other did not stop , but on the countrary rather hastily walked away towards the door ; Esmond pursued him and faced him once more , as the officer , helping himself to holy water , turned mechanically towards the altar to bow to it ere he quitted the sacred edifice . 
`` You speak Latin , '' says he , `` in the English way , Harry Esmond ; you have forsaken the old true Roman tongue you once knew . '' 
His tone was very frank , and friendly quite ; the kind voice of fifteen years back ; he gave Esmond his hand as he spoke . 
`` Others have changed their coats too , my Father , '' says Esmond , glancing at his friend 's military decoration . 
`` And you too have changed your coat , '' continues the other in his laughing way ; `` I have heard of you at Cambridge and afterwards : we have friends everywhere ; and I am told that Mr. Esmond at Cambridge was as good a fencer as he was a bad theologian . '' 
`` Perhaps you are right , '' says the other , reading his thoughts quite as he used to do in old days : `` you were all but killed at Hochstedt of a wound in the left side . 
You got your company the other day after Ramillies ; your general and the Prince-Duke are not friends ; he is of the Webbs of Lydiard Tregoze , in the county of York , a relation of my Lord St. John . 
Captain Esmond laughed in his turn , `` You have indeed a curious knowledge , '' he says . 
A foible of Mr. Holt 's , who did know more about books and men than , perhaps , almost any person Esmond had ever met , was omniscience ; thus in every point he here professed to know , he was nearly right , but not quite . 
Esmond 's wound was in the right side not the left ; his first general was General Lumley ; Mr. Webb came out of Wiltshire , not out of Yorkshire ; and so forth . 
Esmond did not think fit to correct his old master in these trifling blunders , but they served to give him a knowledge of the other 's character , and he smiled to think that this was his oracle of early days ; only now no longer infallible or divine . 
`` And so was my father before me , '' said Mr. Esmond , looking calmly at the other , who did not , however , show the least sign of intelligence in his impenetrable grey eyes -- how well Harry remembered them and their look ! 
`` I may have been in Pekin , '' says he , `` or I may have been in Paraguay -- who knows where ? 
Esmond 's good luck again attended him ; he escaped without a hurt , although more than a third of his regiment was killed , had again the honour to be favourably mentioned in his commander 's report , and was advanced to the rank of major . 
Esmond had no difficulty in finding out -LRB- indeed , the other made no secret of it to him , being assured , from old times , of his pupil 's fidelity -RRB- , that the negotiator of prisoners was an agent from St. Germain 's , and that he carried intelligence between great personages in our camp and that of the French . 
Captain Holtz made a visit to England during this time , so eager was he about negotiating prisoners ; and 't was on returning from this voyage that he began to open himself more to Esmond , and to make him , as occasion served , at their various meetings , several of those confidences which are here set down altogether . 
The reason of his increased confidence was this : upon going to London , the old director of Esmond 's aunt , the dowager , paid her ladyship a visit at Chelsea , and there learnt from her that Captain Esmond was acquainted with the secret of his family , and was determined never to divulge it . 
The knowledge of this fact raised Esmond in his old tutor 's eyes , so Holt was pleased to say , and he admired Harry very much for his abnegation . 
The good Father 's eyes filled with tears at this speech , which to the other seemed very simple : he embraced Esmond , and broke out into many admiring expressions ; he said he was a noble coeur , that he was proud of him , and fond of him as his pupil and friend , -- regretted more than ever that he had lost him , and been forced to leave him in those early times , when he might have had an influence over him , have brought him into that only true church , to which the Father belonged , and enlisted him in the noblest army in which a man ever engaged , -- meaning his own Society of Jesus , which numbers -LRB- says he -RRB- in its troops the greatest heroes the world ever knew ; -- warriors , brave enough to dare or endure anything , to encounter any odds , to die any death ; -- soldiers that have won triumphs a thousand times more brilliant than those of the greatest general : that have brought nations on their knees to their sacred banner , the Cross ; that have achieved glories and palms incomparably brighter than those awarded to the most splendid earthly conquerors , -- crowns of immortal light , and seats in the high places of Heaven . 
Esmond was thankful for his old friend 's good opinion , however little he might share the Jesuit-father 's enthusiasm . 
`` I have thought of that question , too , '' says he , `` dear Father , '' and he took the other 's hand -- `` thought it out for myself , as all men must , and contrive to do the right , and trust to Heaven as devoutly in my way as you in yours . 
Esmond wished to cut short the good Father 's theology , and succeeded ; and the other , sighing over his pupil 's invincible ignorance , did not withdraw his affection from him , but gave him his utmost confidence -- as much , that is to say , as a priest can give : more than most do ; for he was naturally garrulous , and too eager to speak . 
Holt 's friendship encouraged Captain Esmond to ask , what he long wished to know , and none could tell him , some history of the poor mother whom he had often imagined in his dreams , and whom he never knew . 
He described to Holt those circumstances which are already put down in the first part of this story , -- the promise he had made to his dear lord , and that dying friend 's confession ; and he besought Mr. Holt to tell him what he knew regarding the poor woman from whom he had been taken . 
Esmond came to this spot in one sunny evening of spring , and saw , amidst a thousand black crosses , casting their shadows across the grassy mounds , that particular one which marked his mother 's resting-place . 
He fancied her , in tears and darkness , kneeling at the foot of her cross , under which her cares were buried . 
Surely he knelt down , and said his own prayer there , not in sorrow so much as in awe -LRB- for even his memory had no recollection of her -RRB- , and in pity for the pangs which the gentle soul in life had been made to suffer . 
The brigade commanded by Major-General Webb gave and received about as hard knocks as any that were delivered in that action , which Mr. Esmond had the fortune to serve at the head of his own company in his regiment , under the command of their own colonel as Major-General ; and it was his good luck to bring the regiment out of action as commander of it , the four senior officers above him being killed in the prodigious slaughter which happened on that day . 
Esmond 's dear young viscount , serving as aide-de-camp to my Lord Duke , received a wound , and won a honourable name for himself in the Gazette ; and Captain Esmond 's name was sent in for promotion by his general , too , whose favourite he was . 
It made his heart beat to think that certain eyes at home , the brightest in the world , might read the page on which his humble services were recorded ; but his mind was made up steadily to keep out of their dangerous influence , and to let time and absence conquer that passion he had still lurking about him . 
Away from Beatrix , it did not trouble him ; but he knew as certain that if he returned home , his fever would break out again , and avoided Walcote as a Lincolnshire-man avoids returning to his fens , where he is sure that the ague is lying in wait for him . 
A division under Webb and Rantzau was detached into Artois and Picardy upon the most painful and odious service that Mr. Esmond ever saw in the course of his military life . 
My Lord Marlborough gave this as his opinion openly ; those who mistrusted him , and Mr. Esmond owns himself to be of the number , hinted that the Duke had his reasons why Lille should not be taken , and that he was paid to that end by the French king . 
But for the miraculous victory which Esmond 's general won over an army six or seven times greater than his own , the siege of Lille must have been raised ; and it must be remembered that our gallant little force was under the command of a general whom Marlborough hated , that he was furious with the conqueror , and tried by the most open and shameless injustice afterwards to rob him of the credit of his victory . 
`` If I was Cadogan , I would have a peerage for this day 's work , '' General Webb said ; `` and Harry , thou shouldst have a regiment . 
I shall mention thee in my despatch to his Grace the Commander-in-Chief , and recommend thee to poor Dick Harwood 's vacant majority . 
Esmond , with a low bow and a smiling face , presented his despatch , and saluted Mr. Webb as Lieutenant-General , as he gave it in . 
The gentlemen round about him -- he was riding with his suite on the road to Menin as Esmond came up with him -- gave a cheer , and he thanked them , and opened the despatch with rather a flushed eager face . 
He slapped it down on his boot in a rage , after he had read it . '' 
'T is not even writ with his own hand . 
The aidesde-camp were present ; and Harry Esmond and his dear young lord were together , as they always strove to be when duty would permit : they were over against the table where the generals were , and could see all that passed pretty well . 
Stand up , Harry . 
He came hobbling back , and blushing at his feat : `` I thought he 'd like it , Harry , '' the young fellow whispered . 
He solicits permission to return to England immediately the military duties will permit , and take with him to England Captain Esmond , of his regiment , who acted as his aide-de-camp , and was present during the entire action , and noted by his watch the time when Mr. Cadogan arrived at its close . '' 
My Lord Marquis -LRB- for so we may call him here , though he never went by any other name than Colonel Esmond -RRB- was in the habit of telling many stories which he did not set down in his memoirs , and which he had from his friend the Jesuit , who was not always correctly informed , and who persisted that Marlborough was looking for a bribe of two millions of crowns before the campaign of Ramillies . 
And our Grandmother used to tell us children that on his first presentation to my Lord Duke , the Duke turned his back upon my Grandfather ; and said to the Duchess , who told my lady dowager at Chelsea , who afterwards told Colonel Esmond , -- `` Tom Esmond 's bastard has been to my levee : he has the hang-dog look of his rogue of a father '' -- an expression which my Grandfather never forgave . 
The wound my lord got at Oudenarde prevented their meeting , but that was nearly healed , and Mr. Esmond trembled daily left any chance should bring his boy and this known assassin together . 
Mr. Esmond said to him , imploring him to quit the table . 
He began to tell some stories against the General : which , from t ` other side of Esmond , young Castlewood contradicted . 
If Captain Esmond had put Mohun out of the world , as he might , a villain would have been punished and spared further villanies -- but who is one man to punish another ? 
`` O Harry ! 
But Harry Esmond said , '' 'T was best to have no man 's life on one 's conscience , not even that villain 's ; '' and this affair , which did not occupy three minutes , being over , the gentlemen went back to their wine , and my Lord Mohun to his quarters , where he was laid up with a fever which had spared mischief had it proved fatal . 
And very soon after this affair Harry Esmond and his general left the camp for London ; whither a certain reputation had preceded the Captain , for my Lady Castlewood of Chelsea received him as if he had been a conquering hero . 
He introduced Mr. Esmond to Mr. St. John and the Right Honourable Robert Harley , Esquire , as he came out of the house walking between them ; and was pleased to make many flattering observations regarding Mr. Esmond 's behaviour during the three last campaigns . 
Mr. St. John -LRB- who had the most winning presence of any man I ever saw , excepting always my peerless young Frank Castlewood , -RRB- said he had heard of Mr. Esmond before from Captain Steele , and how he had helped Mr. Addison to write his famous poem of the `` Campaign . '' 
As the General 's aide-de-camp , and favourite officer , Mr. Esmond came in for a share of his chief 's popularity , and was presented to her Majesty , and advanced to the rank of Lieutenant-Colonel , at the request of his grateful chief . 
We may be sure there was one family in which any good fortune that happend to Esmond , caused such a sincere pride and pleasure , that he , for his part , was thankful he could make them so happy . 
As for his aide-de-camp , though , no doubt , Esmond 's own natural vanity was pleased at the little share of reputation which his good fortune had won him , yet it was chiefly precious to him -LRB- he may say so , now that he hath long since outlived it -RRB- because it pleased his mistress , and , above all , because Beatrix valued it . 
Esmond had his quarters in her ladyship 's house , where the domesticks were instructed to consider him as their master . 
She bade him give entertainments , of which she defrayed the charges , and was charmed when his guests were carried away tipsy in their coaches . 
She must have his picture taken ; and accordingly he was painted by Mr. Jervas , in his red coat , and smiling upon a bomb-shell , which was bursting at a corner of the piece . 
The only fault she found with him was that he was more sober than an Esmond ought to be ; and would neither be carried to bed by his valet , nor lose his heart to any beauty , whether of St. James 's or Covent Garden . 
Esmond 's mistress had a thousand faults beside her charms : he knew both perfectly well ; she was imperious , she was light-minded , she was slighty , she was false , she had no reverence in her character ; she was in everything , even in beauty , the contrast of her mother , who was the most devoted and the least selfish of women . 
Well , from the very first moment he saw her on the stairs at Walcote , Esmond knew he loved Beatrix . 
There might be better women -- he wanted that one . 
He cared for none other . 
Beautiful as she was , he hath heard people say a score of times in their company , that Beatrix 's mother looked as young , and was the handsomer of the two . 
Why did her voice thrill in his ear so ? 
She could not sing near so well as Nicolini or Mrs. Tofts ; nay , she sang out of tune , and yet he liked to hear her better than St. Cecilia . 
She had not a finer complexion than Mrs. Steele -LRB- Dick 's wife , whom he had now got , and who ruled poor Dick with a rod of pickle -RRB- , and yet to see her dazzled Esmond ; he would shut his eyes , and the thought of her dazzled him all the same . 
Days passed away between him and these ladies , he scarce knew how . 
He poured his heart out to them , so as he never could in any other company , where he hath generally passed for being moody , or supercilious and silent . 
This societyAnd , indeed , so was his to them , a thousand thousand times more charming , for where was his equal ? 
Mistress Beatrix Esmond had been a dozen times on the point of making great matches , so the Court scandal said ; but for his part Esmond never would believe the stories against her ; and came back , after three years ' absence from her , not so frantick as he had been perhaps , but still hungering after her and no other , still hopeful , still kneeling , with his heart in his hand for the young lady to take . 
`` But she will make no mean match , Harry : she will not marry as I would have her ; the person whom I should like to call my son , and Henry Esmond knows who that is , is best served by my not pressing his claim . 
You are my son , too , Harry . 
`` I wish she would have you , '' said Harry 's fond mistress , giving a hand to him . 
He kissed the fair hand -LRB- 't was the prettiest dimpled little hand in the world , and my Lady Castlewood , though now almost forty years old , did not look to be within ten years of her age -RRB- . 
He kissed and kept her fair hand , as they talked together . 
`` Why , '' says he , `` should she hear me ? 
What are they , Harry ? 
Do you know , Harry , since his death , it has always seemed to me as if his love came back to me , and that we are parted no more . 
Perhaps he is here , now , Harry -- I think he is . 
Forgiven I am sure he is : even Mr. Atterbury absolved him , and he died forgiving . 
Of course , Mr. Esmond did not think fit to enlighten Lady Castlewood regarding the young scapegrace 's doings : nor had he said a word about the affair with Lord Mohun , knowing how abhorrent that man 's name was to his mistress . 
Frank did not waste much time or money on pen and ink ; and , when Harry came home with his general , only writ two lines to his mother , to say his wound in the leg was almost healed , that he would keep his coming of age next year , -- that the duty aforesaid would keep him at Bruxelles , and that Cousin Harry would tell all the news . 
But from Bruxelles , knowing how the Lady Castlewood always liked to have a letter about the famous 29th of December , my lord writ her a long and full one , and in this he must have described the affair with Mohun ; for when Mr. Esmond came to visit his mistress one day , early in the new year , to his great wonderment , she and her daughter both came up and saluted him , and after them the dowager of Chelsea , too , whose chairman had just brought her ladyship from her village to Kensington across the fields . 
And pointing to her blushing cheek , she made Mr. Esmond aware that he was to enjoy the rapture of an embrace there . 
Having saluted one cheek , she turned to him the other . 
`` Cousin Harry , '' said both the other ladies , in a little chorus , `` We thank you for your noble conduct ; '' and then Harry became aware that the story of the Lille affair had come to his kinswomen 's ears . 
It pleased him to hear them all saluting him as one of their family . 
Indeed , Esmond 's dear mistress , blushing as he looked at her , with her beautiful fair hair and an elegant dress , according to the mode , appeared to have the shape and complexion of a girl of twenty . 
`` You are our knight , Harry -- our true knight . 
`` We had a letter from dearest Frank , '' his mother said , `` three days since , whilst you were on your visit to your friend Captain Steele , at Hampton . 
`` And I adopt you from this day , '' says the dowager ; `` and I wish I was richer , for your sake , son Esmond , '' she added , with a waive of her hand ; and as Mr. Esmond dutifully went down on his knee before her ladyship , she cast her eyes up to the ceiling -LRB- the gilt chandelier , and the twelve wax candles in it , for the party was numerous -RRB- , and invoked a blessing from that quarter upon the newly adopted son . 
`` I am sure my Henry will always defend him . '' 
Did you see her at Bushy , Harry ? 
`` Did you see the King at Oudenarde , Harry ? '' 
his mistress asked . 
`` I saw the young Hanoverian only : '' Harry said , `` The Chevalier de St. George . '' 
Indeed , Harry had ridden away from Hampton that very morning , leaving the couple by the ears ; for , from the chamber where he lay , in a bed that was none of the cleanest , and kept awake by the company which he had in his own bed , and the quarrel which was going on in the next room , he could hear both night and morning the curtain lecture which Mrs. Steele was in the habit of administering to poor Dick . 
Mr. Esmond could hear him coaxing and speaking in that maudlin manner , which punch and claret produce , to his beloved Prue , and beseeching her to remember that there was a distiwisht officer ithe rex roob , who would overhear her . 
She went on , nevertheless , calling him a drunken wretch , and was only interrupted in her harangues by the Captain 's snoring . 
I 've nothing fit to put on ; I never have ; '' and so the dispute went on -- Mr. Esmond interrupting the talk when it seemed to be growing too intimate by blowing his nose as loudly as ever he could , at the found of which trumpet there came a lull . 
There was Lieutenant-General Webb , Harry 's kind patron , of whom the dowager took possession , and who resplended in velvet and gold lace ; there was Harry 's new acquaintance , the Right Honourable Henry St. John , Esquire , the General 's kinsman , who was charmed with the Lady Castlewood , even more than with her daughter ; there was one of the greatest noblemen in the kingdom , the Scots Duke of Hamilton , just created Duke of Brandon in England ; and two other noble lords of the Tory party , my Lord Ashburnham , and another I have forgot ; and for ladies , her Grace the Duchess of Ormonde and her daughters , the Lady Mary and the Lady Betty , the former one of Mistress Beatrix 's colleagues in waiting on the Queen . 
All this while the Maid of Honour had been trying to get Mr. Esmond to talk , and no doubt voted him a dull fellow . 
For , by some mistake , just as he was going to pop into the vacant place , he was placed far away from Beatrix 's chair , who sate between his Grace and my Lord Ashburnham , and shrugged her lovely white shoulders , and cast a look as if to say , `` Pity me , '' to her cousin . 
By the time the first course was done the dinner seemed long to Esmond : by the time the soup came he fancied they must have been hours at table : and as for the sweets and jellies he thought they never would be done . 
As for poor Dick , we were obliged to leave him alone at the dining-table , where he was hiccupping out the lines from the `` Campaign , '' in which the greatest poet had celebrated the greatest general in the world ; and Harry Esmond found him , half an hour afterwards , in a more advanced stage of liquor , and weeping about the treachery of Tom Boxer . 
The drawing-room was all dark to poor Harry , in spite of the grand illumination . 
Beatrix scarce spoke to him . 
No doubt , as a kinsman of the house , Mr. Esmond thought fit to be the last of all in it ; he remained after the coaches had rolled away , -- after his dowager aunt 's chair and flambeaux had marched off in the darkness towards Chelsea , and the town 's - people had gone to bed , who had been drawn into the square to gape at the unusual assemblage of chairs and chariots , lacqueys and torchmen . 
The poor mean wretch lingered yet for a few minutes , to see whether the girl would vouchsafe him a smile , or a parting word of consolation . 
`` The day began so well , Henry , that I had hoped it might have ended better , '' was all the consolation that poor Esmond 's fond mistress could give him ; and as he trudged home through the dark alone , he thought , with bitter rage in his heart , and a feeling of almost revolt against the sacrifice he had made : -- `` She would have me , '' thought he , `` had I but a name to give her . 
I suppose a man 's vanity is stronger than any other passion in him ; for I blush , even now , as I recal the humiliation of those distant days , the memory of which still smarts , though the fever of baulked desire has passed away more than a score of years ago . 
All this shame , Mr. Esmond had to undergo ; and he submitted , and revolted , and presently came crouching back for more . 
My lord was for ever paying Mr. Esmond compliments : bidding him to dinner , offering him horses to ride , and giving him a thousand uncouth marks of respect and good-will . 
says he . 
`` Yes , '' says he ; `` I waited on her to-day . 
'T was only too sure : his mistress 's sad , compassionate face told him the story ; and then she related what particulars of it she knew , and how my young lord had made his offer , half-an-hour after Esmond went away that morning , and in the very room where the song lay yet on the harpsichord , which esmond had writ , and they had sung together . 
That feverish desire to gain a little reputation which Esmond had had , left him now perhaps that he had attained some portion of his wish , and the great motive of his ambition was over . 
His desire for military honour was that it might raise him in Beatrix 's eyes . 
When he heard this news of Beatrix 's engagement in marriage , Colonel Esmond knocked under to his fate , and resolved to surrender his sword , that could win him nothing now he cared for ; and in this dismal frame of mind he determined to retire from the regiment , to the great delight of the captain next in rank to him , who happened to be a young gentleman of good fortune , who eagerly paid Mr. Esmond a thousand guineas for his majority in Webb 's regiment , and was knocked on the head the next campaign . 
Perhaps Esmond would not have been sorry to share his fate . 
He was more the Knight of the Woful Countenance than ever he had been . 
Both the ladies of Castlewood approved of Mr. Esmond quitting the army , and his kind general coincided in his wish of retirement , and helped in the transfer of his commission , which brought a pretty sum into his pocket . 
But when the Commander-in-Chief came home , and was forced , in spite of himself , to appoint Lieutenant-General Webb to the command of a division of the army in Flanders , the Lieutenant-General prayed Colonel Esmond so urgently to be his aide-de-camp and military secretary , that Esmond could not resist his kind patron 's entreaties , and again took the field , not attached to any regiment , but under Webb 's orders . 
'T was only by chance that Esmond , wandering in Kensington , found his mistress coming out of a mean cottage there , and heard that she had a score of poor retainers whom she visited and comforted in their sickness and poverty , and who blessed her daily . 
No doubt Monsieur Gauthier knew what Esmond 's peculiar position was , for he corresponded with Holt , and always treated Colonel Esmond with particular respect and kindness ; but for good reasons the Colonel and the Abbé never spoke on this matter together , and so they remained perfect good friends . 
And without entering very eagerly into the controversy , Esmond had frankly taken the side of his family . 
It seemed to him that King James the Third was undoubtedly king of England by right : and at his sister 's death it would be better to have him than a foreigner over us . 
But let us return to my Lady of Chelsea , who when her son Esmond announced to her ladyship that he proposed to make the ensuing campaign , took leave of him with perfect alacrity , and was down to picquet with her gentlewoman before he had well quitted the room on his last visit . 
`` Tierce to a king , '' were the last words he ever heard her say : the game of life was pretty nearly over for the good lady , and three months afterwards she took to her bed , where she flickered out without any pain , so the Abbé Gauthier wrote over to Mr. Esmond , then with his general on the frontier of France . 
The Lady Castlewood was with her at her ending , and had written too , but these letters must have been taken by a privateer in the packet that brought them ; for Esmond knew nothing of their contents until his return to England . 
These diamonds , however , Colonel Esmond reserved , having a special use for them : but the Chelsea house , plate , goods , & c. , with the exception of a few articles which he kept back , were sold by his orders ; and the sums resulting from the sale invested in the publick securities so as to realise the aforesaid annual income of # 300 . 
Having now something to leave , he made a will , and dispatched it home . 
'T was known that the General-in-Chief was in disgrace and the parties at home strong against him ; and there was no stroke this great and resolute player would not venture to recal his fortune when it seemed desperate . 
Frank Castlewood was with Colonel Esmond ; his general having gladly taken the young nobleman on to his Staff . 
His studies of fortifications at Bruxelles were over by this time . 
The fort he was besieging had yielded , I believe , and my lord had not only marched in with flying colours , but marched out again . 
'T is needless to say that Colonel Esmond had left every penny of his little fortune to this boy . 
I would n't marry her , Harry , no not if her eyes were twice as big . 
By the Lord , my dear old Harry , you have the best head and the kindest heart in all the army ; and every man says so -- and when the Queen dies , and the King comes back , why should n't you go to the House of Commons and be a minister , and be made a peer , and that sort of thing ? 
Esmond 's general added one more to the many marks of honour which he had received in the front of a score of battles , and got a wound in the groin , which laid him on his back ; and you may be sure he consoled himself by abusing the Commander-in-Chief , as he lay groaning : -- `` Corporal John 's as fond of me , '' he used to say , `` as King David was of General Uriah ; and so he always gives me the post of danger . '' 
He persisted , to his dying day , in believing that the Duke intended he should be beat at Wynendael , and sent him purposely with a small force , hoping that he might be knocked on the head there . 
We drank my Lord Castlewood 's health and majority , the 25th of September , the army being then before Mons : and here Colonel Esmond was not so fortunate as he had been in actions much more dangerous , and was hit by a spent ball just above the place where his former wound was , which caused the old wound to open again , fever , spitting of blood , and other ugly symptoms to ensue ; and , in a word , brought him near to death 's door . 
Frank was supposed to be still at his kinsman 's bed-side for a month after he had left it , for letters came from his mother at home full of thanks to the younger gentleman for his care of his elder brother -LRB- so it pleased Esmond 's mistress now affectionately to style him -RRB- ; nor was Mr. Esmond in a hurry to undeceive her , when the good young fellow was gone for his Christmas holiday . 
It was as pleasant to Esmond on his couch to watch the young man 's pleasure at the idea of being free , as to note his simple efforts to disguise his satisfaction on going away . 
Frank went off , then , to his pleasures at Bruxelles , in which capital many young fellows of our army declared they found infinitely greater diversion even than in London : and Mr. Henry Esmond remained in his sick room , where he writ a fine comedy , that his mistress pronounced to be sublime , and that was acted no less than three successive nights in London in the next year . 
Here , as he lay nursing himself , ubiquitous Mr. Holtz re-appeared , and stopped a whole month at Mons , where he not only won over Colonel Esmond to the King 's side in politicks -LRB- that side being always held by the Esmond family -RRB- ; but where he endeavoured to re-open the controversial question between the churches once more , and to recal Esmond to that religion in which , in his infancy , he had been baptised . 
He touched on Esmond 's delicate state of health , chance of dissolution , and so forth ; and enlarged upon the immense benefits that the sick man was likely to forego , -- benefits which the Church of England did not deny to those of the Roman communion , as how should she , being derived from that church , and only an offshoot from it . 
But Mr. Esmond said that his church was the church of his country , and to that he chose to remain faithful : other people were welcome to worship and to subscribe any other set of articles , whether at Rome or at Augsburg . 
But if the good Father meant that Esmond should join the Roman communion for fear of consequences , and that all England ran the risk of being damned for heresy , Esmond , for one , was perfectly willing to take his chance of the penalty along with the countless millions of his fellow-countrymen , who were bred in the same faith , and along with some of the noblest , the truest , the purest , the wisest , the most pious and learned men and women in the world . 
But the desire of the country being unquestionably for an hereditary monarchy , Esmond thought an English king out of St. Germains was better and fitter than a German prince from Herrenhausen , and that if he failed to satisfy the nation , some other Englishman might be found to take his place ; and so , though with no frantick enthusiasm , or worship of that monstrous pedigree which the Tories chose to consider divine , he was ready to say , `` God save King James ! '' 
`` I am an Englishman , '' says Harry , `` and take my country as I find her . 
Indeed , he owned that he had a message from the Queen , Beatrix 's godmother , who had given her name to Frank 's sister the year before he and his sovereign were born . 
Esmond was especially amused with the talk of one long fellow , with a great curling red moustache , and blue eyes , that was half a dozen inches taller than his swarthy little comrades on the French side of the stream , and being asked by the Colonel , saluted him , and said that he belonged to the Royal Cravats . 
Mr. Esmond whistled Lillibullero , at which Teague 's eyes began to twinkle , and then flung him a dollar , when the poor boy broke out with a `` God bless -- that is , Dieu benisse votre honor , '' that would infallibly have sent him to the Provost-Marshal had he been on our side of the river . 
by the Lord , Esmond , the whole army would rise , and carry him home again , and beat Villars , and take Paris by the way . '' 
Mr. Esmond received one of these : and that medal , and a recompense not uncommon amongst Princes , were the only rewards he ever had from a Royal person , whom he endeavoured not very long after to serve . 
Esmond quitted the army almost immediately after this , following his general home ; and , indeed , being advised to travel in the fine weather , and attempt to take no further part in the campaign . 
But he heard from the army , that of the many who crowded to see the Chevalier de St. George , Frank Castlewood had made himself most conspicuous : my Lord Viscount riding across the little stream bare-headed to where the Prince was , and dismounting and kneeling before him to do him homage . 
`` And he was so kind to me , '' Arthur writ , `` that I thought I would put in a good word for Master Harry , but when I mentioned your name he looked as black as thunder , and said he had never heard of you . '' 
After quitting Mons and the army , and as he was waiting for a packet at Oftend , Esmond had a letter from his young kinsman Castlewood at Bruxelles , conveying intelligence whereof Frank besought him to be the bearer to London , and which caused Colonel Esmond no small anxiety . 
The young scapegrace , being one and twenty years old , and being anxious to sow his `` wild otes , '' as he wrote , had married Mademoiselle de Wertheim , daughter of Count de Wertheim , Chamberlain to the Emperor , and having a post in the Household of the Governor of the Netherlands . 
So Frank had married a Roman Catholick lady , and an heir was expected , and Mr. Esmond was to carry this intelligence to his mistress at London . 
As soon as ever Esmond was dressed -LRB- and he had been awake long before the town -RRB- , he took a coach for Kensington , and reached it so early , that he met his dear mistress coming home from morning prayers . 
He called to the coachman to stop , and jumped out as she looked towards him . 
She wore her hood as usual : and she turned quite pale when she saw him . 
To feel that kind little hand near to his heart seemed to give him strength . 
With a sweet sad smile she took his hand and kissed it . 
Esmond always felt so on returning to her after absence , indeed whenever he looked in her sweet kind face . 
`` I am come back to be nursed by my family , '' says he . 
says his mother . 
again asked Colonel Esmond , -- and his mistress then told him that on her deathbed the Dowager Countess , sending for her , had presented her with this dismal secret as a legacy . '' 
says Lady Castlewood : ` I was in hopes -- ' ``` To Viscount Castlewood , my dear , Viscount Castlewood , and Baron Esmond of Shandon in the kingdom of Ireland , Earl and Marquis of Esmond under patent of his Majesty King James the Second , conferred upon my husband the late Marquis , -- for I am Marchioness of Esmond before God and man . ' 
``` And have you left poor Harry nothing , dear Marchioness ? ' 
` And have you left poor Harry nothing , ''' asks my dear lady : `` for you know , Henry , '' she says with her sweet smile , `` I used always to pity Esau -- and I think I am on his side -- though papa tried very hard to convince me the other way . '' 
``` Poor Harry ! ' 
` So you want something left to poor Harry : he , he ! 
Well then , my dear , since you want poor Harry to have a fortune : you must understand that ever since the year 1691 , a week after the battle of the Boyne , where the Prince of Orange defeated his royal sovereign and father , for which crime he is now suffering in flames -LRB- ugh , ugh -RRB- , Francis Esmond hath been Marquis of Esmond and Earl of Castlewood in the United Kingdom , and Baron and Viscount Castlewood of Shandon in Ireland , and a Baronet , -- and his eldest son will be , -- by courtesy , styled Earl of Castlewood -- he ! 
And then he came to this country and married me -- a poor girl -- a poor innocent young thing -- I say , ' though she was past forty , you know , Harry , when she married : and as for being innocent , -- ` Well , ' she went on , ` I knew nothing of my lord 's wickedness for three years after our marriage , and after the burial of our poor little boy I had it done over again , my dear , I had myself married by Father Holt in Castlewood chapel as soon as ever I heard the creature was dead -- and having a great illness then , arising from another sad disappointment I had , the priest came and told me that my lord had a son before our marriage , and that the child was at nurse in England ; and I consented to let the brat be brought home , and a queer little melancholy child it was when it came . 
``` As for Colonel Esmond , he knew the truth already ' -LRB- and then , Harry , my mistress said , the told me of what had happened at my dear husband 's death-bed -RRB- . 
Dean Atterbury had knowledge of it , Lady Castlewood said , and Esmond very well knows how : that divine being the clergyman for whom the late lord had sent on his death-bed : and when Lady Castlewood would instantly have written to her son , and conveyed the truth to him , the Dean 's advice was that a letter should be writ to Colonel Esmond rather ; that the matter should be submitted to his decision , by which alone the rest of the family were bound to abide . 
`` It rests with you , Harry , as the head of our house . '' 
As he spoke so to his dearest mistress , for whom he would have been willing to give up his life , or to make any sacrifice any day , the fond creature flung herself down on her knees before him , and kissed both his hands in an outbreak of passionate love and gratitude , such as could not but melt his heart , and make him feel very proud and thankful that God had given him the power to show his love for her , and to prove it by some little sacrifice on his own part . 
To be able to bestow benefits or happiness on those one loves is sure the greatest blessing conferred upon a man , -- and what wealth or name , or gratification of ambition or vanity could compare with the pleasure Esmond now had of being able to confer some kindness upon his best and dearest friends ? 
`` Dearest saint , '' says he -- `` purest soul , that has had so much to suffer , that has blessed the poor lonely orphan with such a treasure of love . 
Before such a partial judge , as Esmond 's dear mistress owned herself to be , any cause which he might plead , was sure to be given in his favour ; and accordingly he found little difficulty in reconciling her to the news whereof he was bearer , of her son 's marriage to a foreign lady , Papist though she was . 
`` Castlewood knew very well , '' so she wrote to her son , `` that she never denied him anything in her power to give , much less would she think of opposing a marriage that was to make his happiness , as she trusted , and keep him out of wild courses , which had alarmed her a good deal : and she besought him to come quickly to England , to settle down in his family house of Castlewood -LRB- ` It is his family house , ' says she , to Colonel Esmond , ` though only his own house by your forbearance ' -RRB- and to receive the accompt of her stewardship during his ten years ' minority . '' 
And his lordship added a postscript , of which Esmond knew the inspiring genius very well , for it had the genuine twang of the Seminary , and was quite unlike poor Frank 's ordinary style of writing and thinking ; in which he reminded Colonel Esmond that he , too , was , by birth , of that church ; and that his mother and sister should have his lordship 's prayers to the saints -LRB- an inestimable benefit , truly ! -RRB- 
If Esmond had wanted to keep this secret he could not ; for a day or two after receiving this letter , a notice from Bruxelles appeared in the `` Post-Boy , '' and other prints , announcing that `` a young Irish lord , the Viscount C * stlew * d , just come to his majority , and who had served the last campaigns with great credit , as aide-de-camp to his Grace the Duke of Marlborough , had declared for the popish religion at Bruxelles , and had walked in a procession barefoot , with a wax taper in his hand . '' 
And she kicked off her little slippers -LRB- the wonderfullest little shoes with wonderful tall red heels , Esmond pounced upon one as it fell close beside him -RRB- and she put on the drollest little moue , and marched up and down the room holding Esmond 's cane by way of taper . 
Serious as her mood was , Lady Castlewood could not refrain from laughing ; and as for Esmond he looked on with that delight with which the sight of this fair creature always inspired him : never had he seen any woman so arch , so brilliant , and so beautiful . 
Esmond saw this fault in her , as he saw many others -- a bad wife would Beatrix Esmond make , he thought , for any man under the degree of a Prince . 
Had Esmond possessed the Great Mogul 's crown and all his diamonds , or all the Duke of Marlborough 's money , or all the ingots sunk at Vigo , he would have given them all for this woman . 
A fool he was , if you will ; but so is a sovereign a fool , that will give half a principality for a little crystal as big as a pigeon 's egg , and called a diamond : so is a wealthy nobleman a fool , that will face danger or death , and spend half his life , and all his tranquillity , caballing for a blue riband : so is a Dutch merchant a fool , that has been known to pay ten thousand crowns for a tulip . 
Whilst Esmond was under the domination of this passion , he remembers many a talk he had with his intimates , who used to rally Our Knight of the Rueful Countenance at his devotion , whereof he made no disguise , to Beatrix ; and it was with replies such as the above he met his friends ' satire . 
`` Granted , I am a fool , '' says he , `` and no better than you ; but you are no better than I . 
`` Well , honest Harry , go and attack windmills -- perhaps thou art not more mad than other people , '' St. John added , with a sigh . 
Esmond went away from his mistress and was cured a half dozen times ; he came back to her side , and instantly fell ill again of the fever . 
He vowed that he could leave her and think no more of her , and so he could pretty well , at least , succeed in quelling that rage and longing he had whenever he was with her ; but as soon as he returned he was as bad as ever again . 
Truly a ludicrous and pitiable object , at least exhausting everybody 's pity but his dearest mistress 's , Lady Castlewood 's , in whose tender breast he reposed all his dreary confessions , and who never tired of hearing him and pleading for him . 
Then again he would be plagued with despair , at some impertinence or coquetry of his mistress . 
For days they would be like brother and sister , or the dearest friends , she , simple , fond and charming , he happy beyond measure at her good behaviour . 
Either he would be too pressing , and hint his love , when she would rebuff him instantly , and give his vanity a box on the ear : or he would be jealous , and with perfect good reason , of some new admirer that had sprung up , or some rich young gentleman newly arrived in the town , that this incorrigible flirt would set her nets and baits to draw in . 
Yes you have a very pretty way , and would have made a very decent grave speaker , '' and here she began to imitate Esmond 's way of carrying himself , and speaking to his face , and so ludicrously , that his mistress burst out a laughing , and even he himself could see there was some likeness in the fantastical malicious caricature . 
When Mr. Esmond came home , his health was still shattered ; and he took a lodging near to his mistresses , at Kensington , glad enough to be served by them , and to see them day after day . 
He was enabled to see a little company -- and of the sort he liked best . 
Mr. Esmond , forced to be quiet , betook himself to literature for a relaxation , and composed his comedy , whereof the prompter 's copy lieth in my walnut escrutoire , sealed up and docketted `` The Faithful Fool , a Comedy , as it was performed by her Majesty 's Servants . '' 
He was bringing out his own play of `` Cato '' at the time , the blaze of which quite extinguished Esmond 's farthing candle : and his name was never put to the piece , which was printed as by a Person of Quality . 
Esmond and his two mistresses came to the first night , and Miss Beatrix fell asleep ; whilst her mother , who had not been to a play since King James the Second 's time , thought the piece , though not brilliant , had a very pretty moral . 
When displeased with the conduct of Miss Beatrix , he would compose a satyre , in which he relieved his mind . 
When smarting under the faithlessness of women , he dashed off a copy of verses , in which he held the whole sex up to scorn . 
One day , in one of these moods , he made a little joke , in which -LRB- swearing him to secresy -RRB- he got his friend Dick Steele to help him : and , composing a paper , he had it printed exactly like Steele 's paper , and by his printer , and laid on his mistress 's breakfast-table the following : -- `` Spectator . 
She had told Mr. Esmond this little story of having met a gentleman somewhere , and forgetting his name , when the gentleman , with no such malicious intentions as those of `` Cymon '' in the above table , made the answer simply as above ; and we all laughed to think how little Mistress Jocasta-Beatrix had profited by her artifice and precautions . 
As for Cymon he was intended to represent yours and her very humble servant , the writer of the apologue and of this story , which we had printed on a `` Spectator '' paper at Mr. Steele 's office , exactly as those famous journals were printed , and which was laid on the table at breakfast in place of the real newspaper . 
For though enough hath been said about this love-business already -- enough , at least , to prove to the writer 's heirs what a silly fond fool their old grandfather was , who would like them to consider him as a very wife old gentleman ; -- yet not near all has been told concerning this matter , which if it were allowed to take in Esmond 's journal the space it occupied in his time , would weary his kinsmen and women of a hundred years time beyond all endurance ; and from such a Diary of folly and drivelling , raptures and rage , as no man of ordinary vanity would like to leave behind him . 
The truth is , that , whether the laughed at him or encouraged him ; whether the smiled or was cold and turned her smiles on another ; worldly and ambitious , as he knew her to be ; hard and careless as the seemed to grow with her court life , and a hundred admirers that came to her and left her ; Esmond , do what he would , never could get Beatrix out of his mind ; thought of her constantly at home or away : if he read his name in a Gazette , or escaped the shot of a cannon-ball or a greater danger in the campaign , as has happened to him more than once , the instant thought after the honour atchieved or the danger avoided , was `` What will the say of it ? '' 
He could no more help this passionate fidelity of temper than he could help the eyes he saw with -- one or the other seemed a part of his nature ; and knowing everyone of her faults as well as the keenest of her detractors , and the folly of an attachment to such a woman , of which the fruition could never bring him happiness for above a week , there was yet a charm about this Circe from which the poor deluded gentleman could not free himself ; and , for a much longer period than Ulysses -LRB- another middle-aged officer , who had travelled much , and been in the foreign wars -RRB- , Esmond felt himself enthralled and besotted by the wiles of this enchantress . 
He could no more quit her , as the Cymon of his story was made to quit his false one , than he could lose his consciousness of yesterday . 
She had but to raise her finger , and he would come back from ever so far ; the had but to say I have discarded such and such an adorer , and the poor infatuated wretch would be sure to come and rôder about her mother 's house , willing to be put on the ranks of suitors , though he knew he might be cast off the next week . 
If he were like Ulysses in his folly at least , the was in so far like Penelope , that she had a crowd of suitors , and undid day after day and night after night the handywork of fascination and the web of coquetry with which the was wont to allure and entertain them . 
When he quitted home , it hath been said , she was promised to my Lord Ashburnham , and now , on his return , behold his lordship was just married to Lady Mary Butler , the Duke of Ormonde 's daughter , and his fine houses , and twelve thousand a year of fortune , for which Miss Beatrix had rather coveted him , was out of her power . 
To her Esmond could say nothing in regard to the breaking of this match ; and asking his mistress about it , all Lady Castlewood answered was : `` Do not speak to me about it , Harry . 
The rupture , whatever its cause was , -LRB- I heard the scandal , but indeed shall not take pains to repeat at length in this diary the trumpery coffeehouse story , -RRB- caused a good deal of low talk ; and Mr. Esmond was present at my lord 's appearance at the Birthday with his bride , over whom the revenge that Beatrix took was to look so imperial and lovely that the modest downcast young lady could not appear beside her , and Lord Ashburnham , who had his reasons for wishing to avoid her , slunk away quite shamefaced , and very early . 
This time His Grace the Duke of Hamilton , whom Esmond had seen about her before , was constant at Miss Beatrix 's side : he was one of the most splendid gentlemen of Europe , accomplished by books , by travel , by long command of the best company , distinguished as a statesman , having been ambassador in King William 's time , and a noble speaker in the Scots ' Parliament , where he had led the party that was against the Union , and though now five or fix and forty years of age , a gentleman so high in stature , accomplished in wit , and favoured in person , that he might pretend to the hand of any Princess in Europe . 
Miss Beatrix at first was quite bit -LRB- as the phrase of that day was -RRB- and did not `` smoke '' the authorship of the story : indeed Esmond had tried to imitate as well as he could Mr. Steele 's manner , -LRB- as for the other author of the Spectator his prose style I think is altogether inimitable ;-RRB- and Dick , who was the idlest and best natured of men , would have let the piece pass into his journal and go to posterity as one of his own lucubrations , but that Esmond did not care to have a lady 's name whom he loved , sent forth to the world in a light so unfavourable . 
`` Upon my honour , '' says he , `` I have not even read the Spectator of this morning . '' 
Nor had he , for that was not the Spectator , but a sham newspaper put in its place . 
`` Indeed , madam , I would , '' says he . 
The girl runs up to her -- `` O you silly kind mamma , '' she says , kissing her again , `` that 's what Harry would like ; '' and she broke out into a great joyful laugh : and Lady Castlewood blushed as bashful as a maid of sixteen . 
`` Look at her , Harry , '' whispers Beatrix , running up , and speaking in her sweet low tones . 
She paused for a minute , and the smile fading away from her April face , gave place to a menacing shower of tears : `` O how good she is , Harry , '' Beatrix went on to say . 
O , Harry , I 'm jealous of that guardian angel ! '' 
When you are a mother yourself , and a great lady , perhaps I shall send you over from the plantation some day a little barbarian that is half Esmond half Mohock , and you will be kind to him for his father 's sake , who was , after all , your kinsman ; and whom you loved a little . '' 
`` What folly you are talking , Harry , '' says Miss Beatrix , looking with her great eyes . 
And , indeed , the scheme had been dwelling a good deal in his mind for some time past , and especially since his return home , when he found how hopeless , and even degrading to himself , his passion was . 
`` No , '' says he , then , `` I have tried half a dozen times now . 
I always thought you a hundred years old , Harry , with your solemn face and grave air . 
And she put her face quite close to his -- who knows with what intention ? 
I shall stay , I think , to see you married , and then freight a ship , and call it the Beatrix , and bid you all ... '' Here the servant , singing the door open , announced His Grace the Duke of Hamilton , and Esmond started back with something like an imprecation on his lips , as the nobleman entered , looking splendid in his star and green riband . 
He gave Mr. Esmond just that gracious bow which he would have given to a lacquey who fetched him a chair or took his hat , and seated himself by Miss Beatrix , as the poor colonel went out of the room with a hang-dog look . 
Esmond 's mistress was in the lower room as he passed down stairs . 
She often met him as he was coming away from Beatrix ; and she beckoned him into the apartment . 
`` Has she told you , Harry ? '' 
says he , his heart beating . 
`` His Grace the Duke of Hamilton has proposed to her , '' says my lady . 
`` He made his offer yesterday . 
They will marry as soon as his mourning is over ; and you have heard his Grace is appointed Ambassador to Paris ; and the Ambassadress goes with him . '' 
Lord Arran was twice prisoner in the Tower during this reign , undauntedly saying , when offered his release , upon parole not to engage against King William , that he would not give his word , because `` he was sure he could not keep it ; '' but , nevertheless , he was both times discharged without any trial ; and the King bore this noble enemy so little malice , that when his mother , the Duchess of Hamilton , of her own right , resigned her claim on her husband 's death , the earl was , by patent signed at Loo , 1690 , created Duke of Hamilton , Marquis of Clydesdale , and Earl of Arran , with precedency from the original creation . 
I think Colonel Esmond was relieved when a ducal coach-and-six came and whisked his charmer away out of his reach , and placed her in a higher sphere . 
At length Esmond saw his friend 's name in the Gazette as a bankrupt ; and a week after this circumstance my bankrupt walks into Mr. Esmond 's lodging with a face perfectly radiant with good humour , and as jolly and careless as when they had failed from Southampton ten years before for Vigo . 
So it was that when Fortune shook her wings and left him , honest Tom cuddled himself up in his ragged virtue , and fell asleep . 
Esmond did not tell his friend how much his story applied to Esmond too : but he laughed at it , and used it ; and having fairly struck his docket in this love transaction , determined to put a cheerful face on his bankruptcy . 
Perhaps Beatrix was a little offended at his gaiety . 
Esmond would not be put off from his good-humour , but told her the story of Tom Trett and his bankruptcy . 
Why should I not own that I am ambitious , Harry Esmond ; and if it be no sin in a man to covet honour , why should a woman too not desire it ? 
Shall I be frank with you , Harry , and say that if you had not been down on your knees , and so humble , you might have fared better with me ? 
I should have been sulky and scolded ; and of all the proud wretches in the world Mr. Esmond is the proudest , let me tell him that . 
says Esmond , who never admired this fair creature more than when she rebelled and laughed at him . 
Yes -- you did once , for a little , Harry , when you came back , after Lille , and engaging with that murderer , Mohun , and saving Frank 's life . 
Though the very kindness of the words stabbed Mr. Esmond with the keenest pang , he did not show his sense of the wound by any look of his -LRB- as Beatrix , indeed , afterwards owned to him -RRB- , but said , with a perfect command of himself and an easy smile , `` The interview must not end yet , my dear , until I have had my last word . 
And he took the case out of his pocket in which the jewels were , and presented them to his cousin . 
He looked very black upon Mr. Esmond , to whom he made a very low bow indeed , and kissed the hand of each lady in his most ceremonious manner . 
He had come in his chair from the palace hard by , and wore his two stars of the Garter and the Thistle . 
`` Look , my Lord Duke , '' says Mrs. Beatrix , advancing to him , and showing the diamonds on her breast . 
`` Diamonds , '' says his Grace . 
`` I am not here to bandy words , '' says his Grace : `` frankly I tell you that your visits to this house are too frequent , and that I chuse no presents for the Duchess of Hamilton from gentlemen that bear a name they have no right to . '' 
`` If I called him benefactor , '' said my mistress , `` it is because he has been so to us -- yes , the noblest , the truest , the bravest , the dearest of benefactors . 
He would have saved my husband 's life from Mohun 's sword . 
`` I ask Colonel Esmond 's pardon , '' says his Grace , if possible more haughty than before ; `` I would say not a word that should give him offence , and thank him for his kindness to your ladyship 's family . 
His father was Viscount of Castlewood and Marquis of Esmond before him ; and he is his father 's lawful son and true heir , and we are the recipients of his bounty , and he the chief of a house that 's as old as your own . 
And if he is content to forego his name that my child may bear it , we love him and honour him and bless him under whatever name he bears '' -- and here the fond and affectionate creature would have knelt to Esmond again , but that he prevented her ; and Beatrix running up to her with a pale face and a cry of alarm , embraced her and said , `` Mother , what is this ? '' 
On his side Mr. Esmond explained the reasons that seemed quite sufficiently cogent with him , why the succession in the family , as at present it stood , should not be disturbed ; and he should remain , as he was , Colonel Esmond . 
`` And Marquis of Esmond , my lord , '' says his Grace , with a low bow . 
To be allied to you , sir , must be an honour under whatever name you are known , -LRB- so his Grace was pleased to say :-RRB- and in return for the splendid present you make my wife , your kinswoman , I hope you will please to command any service that James Douglas can perform . 
`` And if he will take the usual payment in advance , he is welcome , '' says Beatrix , stepping up to him ; and as Esmond kissed her , she whispered , `` O , why did n't I know you before ? '' 
`` As soon after the ceremony as may be ; '' his Grace answered . '' 
Besides my Lord Duke of Hamilton and Brandon , who , for family reasons , had kindly promised his protection and patronage to Colonel Esmond , he had other great friends in power now , both able and willing to assist him , and he might , with such allies , look forward to as fortunate advancement in civil life at home as he had got rapid promotion abroad . 
His Grace was magnanimous enough to offer to take Mr. Esmond as secretary on his Paris embassy , but no doubt he intended that proposal should be rejected ; at any rate , Esmond could not bear the thoughts of attending his mistress farther than the church-door after her marriage , and so declined that offer which his generous rival made him . 
Esmond 's friends were all successful , and the most successful and triumphant of all was his dear old commander , General Webb , who was now appointed Lieutenant-General of the Land Forces , and received with particular honor by the ministry , by the Queen , and the people out of doors , who huzza 'd the brave chief when they used to fee him in his chariot , going to the House or to the Drawing Room , or hobbling on foot to his coach from St. Stephen 's upon his glorious old crutch and stick , and cheered him as loud as they had ever done Marlborough . 
There was no danger on ours which was the winning side ; besides Mr. Esmond pleased himself by thinking that he writ like a gentleman if he did not always succeed as a wit . 
Esmond 's master in war was injured by Marlborough , and hated him ; and the lieutenant fought the quarrels of his leader . 
There were hundreds of men , wits , and pretty fellows frequenting the theatres and coffee-houses of that day -- whom `` nunc prescribere longum est. '' Indeed I think the most brilliant of that sort I ever saw was not till fifteen years afterwards , when I paid my last visit in England , and met young Harry Fielding , son of the Fielding that served in Spain and afterwards in Flanders with us , and who for fun and humour seemed to top them all . 
He could flatter the great as much as he could bully the weak , and Mr. Esmond being younger and hotter in that day than now , was determined should he ever meet this dragon not to run away from his teeth and his fire . 
There was one comrade of Esmond 's , an honest little Irish lieutenant of Handyside 's , who owed so much money to a camp suttler , that he began to make love to the man 's daughter , intending to pay his debt that way ; and at the battle of Malplaquet , flying away from the debt and lady too , he rushed so desperately on the French lines , that he got his company ; and came a captain out of the action , and had to marry the suttler 's daughter after all , who brought him his cancelled debt to her father as poor Rogers 's fortune . 
To run out of the reach of bill and marriage , he ran on the enemy 's pikes ; and as these did not kill him he was thrown back upon t ` other horn of his dilemma . 
Our great Duke at the same battle was fighting , not the French , but the Tories in England : and risking his life and the army 's , not for his country but for his pay and places ; and for fear of his wife at home , that only being in life whom he dreaded . 
The Colonel then , having writ a paper for one of the Tory journals , called the `` Post-Boy , '' -LRB- a letter upon Bouchain , that the town talked about for two whole days , when the appearance of an Italian singer supplied a fresh subject for conversation , -RRB- and having business at the Exchange where Mrs. Beatrix wanted a pair of gloves or a fan very likely ; Esmond went to correct his paper , and was sitting at the printer 's , when the famous Doctor Swift came in , his Irish fellow with him that used to walk before his chair , and bawled out his master 's name with great dignity . 
Mr. Esmond was waiting for the printer too , whose wife had gone to the tavern to fetch him , and was meantime engaged in drawing a picture of a soldier on horseback for a dirty little pretty boy of the printer 's wife , whom she had left behind her . 
`` I am but a contributor , Doctor Swift , '' says Esmond , with the little boy still on his knee . 
He was sitting with his back in the window , so that the Doctor could not see him . 
Esmond had seen this gentleman , and a very ingenious , hard-working , honest fellow he was , toiling to give bread to a great family , and watching up many a long winter night to keep the wolf from his door . 
Nay , more , this Irishman , when St. John was about to pardon a poor wretch condemned to death for rape , absolutely prevented the Secretary from exercising this act of good-nature , and boasted that he had had the man hanged ; and great as the Doctor 's genius might be , and splendid his ability , Esmond for one would affect no love for him , and never desired to make his acquaintance . 
'T was but three days after the 15th of November , 1712 , -LRB- Esmond minds him well of the date , -RRB- that he went by invitation to dine with his General , the foot of whose table he used to take on these festive occasions , as he had done at many a board , hard and plentiful during the campaign . 
His absence disappointed Esmond 's old chief , who suffered much from his wounds besides ; and though the company was grand , it was rather gloomy . 
Mr. Esmond went up to the Doctor with a bow and a smile ; -- `` I gave Dr. Swift 's message , '' says he , `` to the printer : I hope he brought your pamphlet to your lodgings in time . '' 
Mr. Swift , when Esmond pledged him , said he drank no wine , and took his hat from the peg and went away , beckoning my Lord Bolingbroke to follow him ; but the other bade him take his chariot and save his coach-hire , he had to speak with Colonel Esmond ; and when the rest of the company withdrew to cards , these two remained behind in the dark . 
Prior hath his business ; he left me this morning , and mark me , Harry , should fate carry off our august , our beloved , our most gouty and plethorick Queen , and Defender of the Faith , la bonne cause triomphera . 
-- He was quite flushed and wild with wine as he was talking . 
`` And suppose , '' says Esmond , who always had this gloomy apprehension , the ``` the bonne cause , ' should give us up to the French , as his father and uncle did before him . '' 
He filled another great bumper , and tossed it up and drained it wildly , just as the noise of rapid carriage-wheels approaching was stopped at our door , and after a hurried knock and a moment 's interval , Mr. Swift came into the hall , ran upstairs to the room we were dining in , and entered it with a perturbed face . 
There had been no need to urge upon Esmond the necessity of a separation between him and Beatrix : fate had done that completely ; and I think from the very moment poor Beatrix had accepted the Duke 's offer , she began to assume the majestick air of a Duchess , nay , Queen Elect , and to carry herself as one sacred and removed from us common people . 
There was a certain charm about this girl of which neither Colonel Esmond nor his fond mistress could forego the fascination ; in spite of her faults and her pride and wilfulness , they were forced to love her ; and , indeed , might be set down as the two chief flatterers of the brilliant creature 's court . 
Who , in the course of his life , hath not been so bewitched , and worshipped some idol or another ? 
Years after this passion hath been dead and buried , along with a thousand other worldly cares and ambitions , he who felt it can recall it out of its grave , and admire , almost as fondly as he did in his youth , that lovely queenly creature . 
With the horrible news of this catastrophe , which was confirmed by the weeping domesticks at the Duke 's own door , Esmond rode homewards as quick as his lazy coach would carry him , devising all the time how he should break the intelligence to the person most concerned in it ; and if a satire upon human vanity could be needed , that poor soul afforded it in the altered company and occupations in which Esmond found her . 
For days before , her chariot had been rolling the street from mercer to toy-shop -- from goldsmith to laceman : her taste was perfect , or at least the fond bridegroom had thought so , and had given entire authority over all tradesmen and for all the plate , furniture , and equipages , with which his Grace the Ambassador wished to adorn his splendid mission . 
My Lady Duchess elect was giving audience to one famous silversmith from Exeter Change , who brought with him a great chased salver , of which he was pointing out the beauties as Colonel Esmond entered . 
Esmond sickened as he thought of the warrior dead in his chamber , his servants and children weeping around him ; and of this smiling creature attiring herself , as it were , for that nuptial deathbed . '' 
'T is a pretty piece of vanity , '' says he , looking gloomily at the beautiful creature : there were flambeaux in the room lighting up the brilliant mistress of it . 
She dropped it with a clang ; the eager goldsmith running to seize his fallen ware . 
says she , running to him , and seizing both his hands . 
`` Come away , come away , '' says Esmond , leading her : she clung frightened to him , and he supported her upon his heart , bidding the scared goldsmith leave them . 
`` O my Beatrix , my sister , '' says Esmond , still holding in his arms the pallid and affrighted creature , `` you have the greatest courage of any woman in the world ; prepare to show it now , for you have a dreadful trial to bear . '' 
She sprang away from the friend who would have protected her : -- `` Hath he left me ? '' 
`` We had words this morning : he was very gloomy , and I angered him : but he dared not , he dared not ! '' 
`` He has left you , '' says Esmond , wondering that rage rather than sorrow was in her looks . 
`` And he is alive ! '' 
He has left me , and you have n't dared to avenge me . 
Esmond had scarce done speaking , when his mistress came in . 
The colloquy between him and Beatrix had lasted but a few minutes , during which time Esmond 's servant had carried the disastrous news through the household . 
She gave him a cold hand as she went out : `` Thank you , brother , '' she said , in a low voice , and with a simplicity more touching than tears , `` all you have said is true and kind , and I will go away and ask pardon . '' 
Esmond gave at length what particulars he knew of their quarrel , and the cause of it . 
He drove the man from under Beatrix 's very window , whereof the casement had been set open . 
The sun was shining though 't was November : he had seen the market-carts rolling into London , the guard relieved at the Palace , the labourers trudging to their work in the gardens between Kensington and the City -- the wandering merchants and hawkers filling the air with their cries . 
Esmond thought of the courier , now galloping on the north road to inform him , who was Earl of Arran yesterday , that he was Duke of Hamilton to-day , and of a thousand great schemes , hopes , ambitions , that were alive in the gallant heart , beating a few hours since , and now in a little dust quiescent . 
With a party of these , some of whom are yet alive , and some whose names Mr. Esmond has no right to mention , he found himself engaged the year after that miserable death of Duke Hamilton , which deprived the Prince of his most courageous ally in this country . 
Dean Atterbury was one of the friends whom Esmond may mention , as the brave bishop is now beyond exile and persecution , and to him , and one or two more , the Colonel opened himself of a scheme of his own , that , backed by a little resolution on the Prince 's part , could not fail of bringing about the accomplishment of their dearest wishes . 
But to say truth , their quiet household was little to his taste : he could be got to come to Walcote but once after his first campaign ; and then the young rogue spent more than half his time in London , not appearing at Court or in publick under his own name and title , but frequenting plays , bagnios , and the very worst company , under the name of Captain Esmond -LRB- whereby his innocent kinsman got more than once into trouble -RRB- ; and so under various pretexts , and in pursuit of all sorts of pleasures , until he plunged into the lawful one of marriage , Frank Castlewood had remained away from this country , and was unknown , save amongst the gentlemen of the army , with whom he had served abroad . 
'T was all that Henry Esmond could do to too the her natural mortification , and find excuses for his kinsman 's levity . 
He had not seen its antient grey towers and well-remembered woods for nearly fourteen years , and since he rode thence with my lord , to whom his mistress with her young children by her side waved an adieu . 
As for Esmond , he felt to be a hundred years old ; his dear mistress only seemed unchanged ; she looked and welcomed him quite as of old . 
Esmond 's mistress knew he would like to sleep in the little room he used to occupy ; 't was made ready for him , and wall-flowers and sweet herbs set in the adjoining chamber , the chaplain 's room . 
Esmond remembered his poor lord saying , on the last day of his life , that Holt used to come in and out of the house like a ghost , and knew that the Father liked these mysteries , and practised such secret disguises , entrances , and exits : this was the way the ghost came and went his pupil had always conjectured . 
Esmond closed the casement up again as the dawn was rising over Castlewood village ; he could hear the clinking at the blackmith 's forge yonder among the trees , across the green , and past the river , on which a mist still lay sleeping . 
Esmond made free with there papers , and found treasonable matter of King William 's reign , the names of Charnock and Perkins , Sir John Fenwick and Sir John Friend , Rookwood and Lodwick , Lords Montgomery , and Ailesbury , Clarendon , and Yarmouth , that had all been engaged in plots against the usurper ; a letter from the Duke of Berwick too , and one from the King at St. Germains , offering to confer upon his trusty and well-beloved Francis Viscount Castlewood the titles of Earl and Marquis of Esmond , bestowed by patent royal , and in the fourth year of his reign , upon Thomas Viscount Castlewood and the heirs male of his body , in default of which issue , the ranks and dignities were to pass to Francis aforesaid . 
The house would not be up for some hours yet -LRB- it was July , and the dawn was only just awake -RRB- , and here Esmond opened himself to his mistress , of the business he had in hand , and what part Frank was to play in it . 
Esmond 's visit home was but for two days ; the business he had in hand calling him away and out of the country . 
Ere he went , he saw Beatrix but once alone , and then she summoned him out of the long tapestry room , where he and his mistress were sitting , quite as in old times , into the adjoining chamber , that had been Viscountess Isabel 's sleeping apartment , and where Esmond perfectly well remembered seeing the old lady sitting up in the bed , in her night-rail , that morning when the troop of guard came to fetch her . 
Here stood Beatrix in her black robes , holding a box in her hand ; 't was that which Esmond had given her before her marriage , stamped with a coronet which the disappointed girl was never to wear ; and containing his aunt 's legacy of diamonds . 
`` You had best take these with you , Harry , '' says she ; `` I have no need of diamonds any more . '' 
Esmond saw she wore a black velvet bracelet on it , with my Lord Duke 's picture in enamel ; he had given it her but three days before he fell . 
Esmond said the stones were his no longer , and strove to turn off that proffered restoration with a laugh : `` Of what good , '' says he , `` are they to me ? 
The diamond loop to his hat did not set off Prince Eugene , and will not make my yellow face look any handsomer . '' 
`` Ask no questions , '' he said , `` wait , and give me but time ; if I bring back that you long for , that I have a thousand times heard you pray for , will you have no reward for him who has done you that service ? 
says Beatrix , laying her hand on his arm , 't was the hand on which she wore the Duke 's bracelet . 
`` Stay , Harry ! '' 
O Harry ! 
I cried once or twice , not for him , but with tears of rage because I could not be sorry for him . 
I was frightened to find I was glad of his death ; and were I joined to you , I should have the same sense of servitude , the same longing to escape . 
I tried to love him ; I tried , indeed I did : affected gladness when he came : submitted to hear when he was by me , and tried the wife 's part I thought I was to play for the rest of my days . 
My thoughts were away when he was speaking ; and I was thinking , O that this man would drop my hand , and rise up from before my feet . 
I am not good , Harry : my mother is gentle and good like an angel . 
She gave him her cheek as a brotherly privilege . 
Esmond 's mistress showed no signs of jealousy when he returned to the room where she was . 
He rid away from Castlewood to attempt the task he was bound on , and stand or fall by it ; in truth his state of mind was such , that he was eager for some outward excitement to counteract that gnawing malady which he was inwardly enduring . 
Mr. esmond did not think sit to take leave at Court ; or to inform all the world of Pall Mall and the coffee-house , that he was about to quit England ; and chose to depart in the most private manner possible . 
He procured a pass as for a Frenchman , through Dr. Atterbury , who did that business for him , getting the signature even from Lord Bolingbroke 's office , without any personal application to the Secretary . 
As Frank Castlewood 's aid was indispensable for Mr. Esmond 's scheme , his first visit was to Bruxelles , -LRB- passing by way of Antwerp , where the Duke of Marlborough was in exile , -RRB- and in the first-named place , Harry found his dear young Benedick , the married man , who appeared to be rather out of humour with his matrimonial chain , and clogged with the obstinate embraces which Clotilda kept round his neck . 
Colonel Esmond was not presented to her ; but Monsieur Simon was , a gentleman of the Royal Cravat , -LRB- Esmond bethought him of the regiment of his honest Irishman , whom he had seen that day after Malplaquet , when he first set eyes on the young King ;-RRB- and Monsieur Simon was introduced to the Viscountess Castlewood , nee Comptesse Wertheim ; to the numerous counts , the Lady Clotilda 's tall brothers ; to her father the chamberlain ; and to the lady his wife , Frank 's mother-in-law , a tall and majestick person of large proportions , such as became the mother of such a company of grenadiers , as her warlike sons formed . 
Mr. Esmond had always maintained a perfect fluency in the French , which was his mother tongue ; and if this family -LRB- that spoke French with the twang which the Flemings use -RRB- discovered any inaccuracy in Mr. Simon 's pronunciation , 't was to be attributed to the latter 's long residence in England , where he had married and remained ever since he was taken prisoner at Blenheim . 
His story was perfectly pat ; there were none there to doubt it , save honest Frank , and he was charmed with his kinsman 's scheme , when he became acquainted with it ; and , in truth , always admired Colonel Esmond with an affectionate fidelity , and thought his cousin the wisest and best of all cousins and men . 
The next time Mr. Esmond saw him , 't was when Monsieur Simon took a packet of laces to Miss Oglethorpe ; the Prince 's antechamber in those days , at which ignoble door men were forced to knock for admission to his Majesty . 
Having his own forebodings , regarding his scheme should it ever be fulfilled , and his usual skeptick doubts as to the benefit which might accrue to the country by bringing a tipsy young monarch back to it , Colonel Esmond had his audience of leave and quiet . 
Here he was put in communication with the King 's best friend , his half brother , the famous Duke of Berwick ; Esmond recognised him as the stranger who had visited Castlewood now near twenty years ago . 
His Grace opened to him when he found that Mr. Esmond was one of Webb 's brave regiment , that had once been his Grace 's own . 
He was the sword and buckler indeed of the Stuart cause : there was no stain on his shield , except the bar across it , which Marlborough 's sister left him . 
But Esmond did not choose to enter on it , nor did the Duke press him . 
What confirmed Esmond in his notion that the Duke of Berwick knew of his case was , that when the Colonel went to pay his duty at St. Germains , her Majesty once addressed him by the title of Marquis . 
He took the Queen the dutiful remembrances of her goddaughter , and the lady whom , in the days of her prosperity , her Majesty had befriended . 
Monsieur Simon bowed very low , and said he had found other parents than his own who had taught him differently ; but these had only one king : on which her Majesty was pleased to give him a medal blessed by the Pope , which had been found very efficacious in cases similar to his own , and to promise she would offer up prayers for his conversion and that of the family : which no doubt this pious lady did , though up to the present moment , and after twenty-seven years , Colonel Esmond is bound to say that neither the medal nor the prayers have had the slightest known effect upon his religious convictions . 
Whilst he remained at Paris , my Lord Castlewood had his picture done by the famous French painter Monsieur Rigaud , a present for his mother in London ; and this piece Monsieur Simon took back with him when he returned to that city , which he reached about May , in the year 1714 , very soon after which time my Lady Castlewood and her daughter , and their kinsman , Colonel Esmond , who had been at Castlewood all this time , likewise returned to London ; her ladyship occupying her house at Kensingon , Mr. Esmond returning to his lodgings at Knightsbridge , nearer the town , and once more making his appearance at all publick places , his health greatly improved by his long stay in the country . 
As for my Lord Bolingbroke , who honoured her ladyship with a visit occasionally , when Colonel Esmond showed him the picture , he burst out laughing , and asked what devilry he was engaged on ? 
For the plan which Colonel Esmond had in view , and the stroke he intended , 't was necessary that the very smallest number of persons should be put in possession of his secret . 
It scarce was known , except to three or four out of his family , and it was kept to a wonder . 
No death or torture he knew would frighten them out of their constancy . 
When he detailed his plan for bringing the King back , his elder mistress thought that that Restoration was to be attributed under heaven to the Castlewood family and to its chief , and she worshipped and loved Esmond , if that could be , more than ever she had done . 
She doubted not for one moment of the success of his scheme , to mistrust which would have seemed impious in her eyes . 
And as for Beatrix , when she became acquainted with the plan , and joined it , as she did with all her heart , she gave Esmond one of her searching bright looks : `` Ah , Harry , '' says she , `` why were you not the head of our house ? 
And she went away , shaking her head mournfully , but always , it seemed to Esmond , that her liking and respect for him was greatly increased , since she knew what capability he had both to act and bear ; to do and to forego . 
Calves enough were killed to feed an army of prodigal sons , Esmond thought , and laughed when he came to wait on the ladies , on the day when the guests were to arrive , to find two pairs of the finest and roundest arms to be seen in England -LRB- my Lady Castlewood was remarkable for this beauty of her person -RRB- , covered with flour up above the elbows , and preparing paste , and turning rolling-pins in the housekeeper 's closet . 
A room had been provided at an inn there for my Lord Castlewood and his servant ; and Colonel Esmond timed his ride so well that he had scarce been half an hour in the place , and was looking over the balcony into the yard of the inn , when two travellers rode in at the inn-gate , and the Colonel running down , the next moment embraced his dear young lord . 
My lord 's companion , acting the part of a domestick , dismounted and was for holding the viscount 's stirrup ; but Colonel Esmond , calling to his own man , who was in the court , bade him take the horses and settle with the lad who had ridden the post along with the two travellers , crying out in a cavalier tone , in the French language to my lord 's companion , and affecting to grumble that my lord 's fellow was a Frenchman , and did not know the money or habits of the country : -- `` My man will see to the horses , Baptiste , '' says Colonel Esmond : `` do you understand English ? '' 
He was in better spirits than poor Frank Castlewood , who Esmond thought might be woe-be-gone on account of parting with his divine Clotilda ; but the Prince wishing to take a short fiesta after dinner , and retiring to an inner chamber where there was a bed , the cause of poor Harry 's discomfiture came out ; and bursting into tears , with many expressions of fondness , friendship , and humiliation , the faithful lad gave his kinsman to understand that he now knew all the truth , and the sacrifices which Colonel Esmond had made for him . 
Seeing no good in acquainting poor Frank with that secret , Mr. Esmond had entreated his mistress also not to reveal it to her son . 
But the fond boy with oaths and protestations , laughter and incoherent outbreaks of passionate emotion , could not be got , for some little time , to put up with Esmond 's raillery ; wanted to kneel down to him , and kissed his hand ; asked him and implored him , to order him something , to bid Castlewood give his own life up or take somebody else 's ; anything so that he might show his gratitude for the generosity Esmond showed him . 
He is not like a king : somehow , Harry , I fancy you are like a king . 
He does not seem to think what a stake we are all playing . 
He would have stopped at Canterbury to run after a barmaid there , had I not implored him to come on . 
He hath a house at Chaillot where he used to go and bury himself for weeks away from the Queen , and with all sorts of bad company , '' says Frank , with a demure look ; `` you may smile , but I am not the wild fellow I was ; no , no , I have been taught better , '' says Castlewood devoutly , making a sign on his breast . 
Esmond had to whisper to him in French to take his hat off . 
Monsieur Baptiste took off his hat , blushing at the hint Colonel Esmond ventured to give him , and said : -- `` Tenez , elle est jolie , la petite màre ; Foi-de-Chevalier ! 
And he started back , and pushed forward , as Beatrix was descending the stair . 
Again Colonel Esmond was obliged to cry out `` Baptiste , '' in a loud imperious voice , `` have a care to the valisse ; '' at which hint the wilful young man ground his teeth together with something very like a curse between them , and then gave a brief look of anything but pleasure to his Mentor . 
Being reminded however , he shouldered the little portmanteau , and carried it up the stair , Esmond preceding him , and a servant with lighted tapers . 
He slung down his burden sulkily in the bed-chamber : -- `` A Prince that will wear a crown must wear a mask , '' says Mr. Esmond , in French . 
A pang , as of rage and jealousy , shot through Esmond 's heart , as he caught the look she gave the Prince ; and he clenched his hand involuntarily and looked across to Castlewood , whose eyes answered his alarm-signal , and were also on the alert . 
Lady Castlewood pressed his hand as they descended the stair , and the three went down to the lower rooms , where they waited awhile till the travellers above should be refreshed and ready for their meal . 
`` I have kept my word , '' says he : `` And I mine , '' says Beatrix , looking down on the diamonds . 
`` I shall have the honour of waiting on his Royal Highness , '' says Colonel Esmond , filling a cup of wine , and , as the fashion of that day was , he presented it to the King on his knee . 
When the time came to take leave , Esmond marched homewards to his lodgings , and met Mr. Addison on the road that night , walking to a cottage he had at Fulham , the moon shining on his handsome , serene face : -- `` What cheer , brother , '' says Addison , laughing , `` I thought it was a foot-pad advancing in the dark , and behold 't is an old friend . 
You know I remember Simois and the Sigeia tellus , and the proelia mixta mero , mixta mero , '' he repeated , with ever so slight a touch of merum in his voice , and walked back a little way on the road with Esmond , bidding the other remember he was always his friend , and indebted to him for his aid in the `` Campaign '' poem . 
And very likely Mr. Under Secretary would have stepped in and taken ` tother bottle at the Colonel 's lodging , had the latter invited him , but Esmond 's mood was none of the gayest , and he bade his friend an inhospitable good night at the door . 
`` I have done the deed , '' thought he , sleepless , and looking out into the night ; `` he is here , and I have brought him ; he and Beatrix are sleeping under the same roof now . 
The eager gaze of the young Prince watching every movement of Beatrix , haunted Esmond and pursued him . 
The Prince drank so much , and was so loud and imprudent in his talk after his drink , that Esmond often trembled for him . 
His meals were served as much as possible in his own chamber , though frequently he made his appearance in Lady Castlewood 's parlour and drawing-room , calling Beatrix `` sister , '' and her ladyship `` mother , '' or `` madam , '' before the servants . 
I fear that Colonel Esmond 's mind was rather relieved , than otherwise , when he found that the ancillary beauty was the one whom the Prince had selected . 
He received these remonstrances very testily , save perhaps in this affair of poor Lockwood 's , when he deigned to burst out a-laughing , and said , `` What ! 
Esmond spoke his mind to Beatrix pretty freely about the Prince , getting her brother too to put in a word of warning . 
She rallied him at table with wonderful wit ; she spoke of him invariably as of a mere boy ; she was more fond of Esmond than ever , praised him to her brother , praised him to the Prince , when his Royal Highness was pleased to sneer at the Colonel , and warmly espoused his cause : `` And if your Majesty does not give him the Garter his father had , when the Marquis of Esmond comes to your Majesty 's court , I will hang myself in my own garters , or will cry my eyes out . '' 
`` Rather than lose those , '' says the Prince , `` he shall be made Archbishop and Colonel of the Guard '' -LRB- it was Frank Castlewood who told me of this conversation over their supper -RRB- . 
`` I , '' says Beatrix , `` will be mother of the maids to the Queen of his Majesty King James the Third -- Vive le Roy ! '' 
But that Trix is my mother 's daughter , Harry , '' Frank continued , `` I do n't know what a horrid fear I should have of her . 
Neither of us very likely passed a tranquil night ; horrible doubts and torments racked Esmond 's soul ; 't was a scheme of personal ambition , a daring stroke for a selfish end , -- he knew it . 
What cared he , in his heart , who was King ? 
Were not his very sympathies and secret convictions on the other side -- on the side of People , Parliament , Freedom ? 
And here was he , engaged for a Prince , that had scarce heard the word liberty ; that priests and women , tyrants by nature both , made a tool of . 
I suppose Esmond 's mistress , her son , and the Colonel himself , had been all secretly debating this matter in their minds , for when Frank broke out , in his blunt way , with : -- `` I think Beatrix had best be any where but here , '' -- Lady Castlewood said : -- `` I thank you , Frank , I have thought so too ; '' and Mr. Esmond , though he only remarked that it was not for him to speak , showed plainly by the delight on his countenance , how very agreeable that proposal was to him . 
He was the humblest man , with all this ; the least exacting , the most easily contented ; and Mr. Benson , our minister at Castlewood , who attended him at the last , ever said -- `` I know not what , Colonel Esmond 's doctrine was , but his life and death were those of a devout Christian . '' 
`` Harry speaks like a book , '' says Frank , with one of his oaths , `` and by -- , every word he faith is true . 
My counsel is that you go out of harm 's way ; for , by the Lord , were the Prince to play any tricks with you , King as he is , or is to be , Harry Esmond and I would have justice of him . '' 
Do you not think so , Harry and Frank ? '' 
Frank and Harry thought with her , you may be sure . 
She held a shagreen-case in her hand ; Esmond knew it as containing his diamonds which he had given to her for her marriage with Duke Hamilton , and which she had worn so splendidly on the inauspicious night of the Prince 's arrival . 
Esmond desired my landlord not to acquaint Madam Beatrix with his coming , and had the grim satisfaction of passing by the door of the chamber where she lay with her maid , and of watching her chariot set forth in the early morning . 
He saw her smile and slip money into the man 's hand who was ordered to ride behind the coach as far as Bagshot . 
The man said in reply to Colonel Esmond 's stern question , that his young mistress had sent her duty , only that , no other message : she had had a very good night , and would reach Castlewood by nightfall . 
`` Il faut étre aimable pour être aimé , '' says the merry Doctor ; Esmond pulled his sleeve , and bade him hush . 
It was to Aymé 's house , after his fatal duel , that my dear Lord Castlewood , Frank 's father , had been carried to die . 
On this night , as you may suppose , only Frank Castlewood and his mother were in waiting when the supper was announced to receive the Prince ; who had passed the whole of the day in his own apartment , with the Bishop as his Minister of State , and Colonel Esmond officiating as Secretary of his Council . 
At this , looking up at Esmond , and taking the signal from him , Lord Castlewood informed his Royal HighnessIn London we addressed the Prince as Royal Highness , invariably ; though the women persisted in giving him the title of King.that his sister Beatrix was not at Kensington ; and that her family had thought it best she should quit the town . 
`` Not of this , sir , '' says Frank very nobly , `` only of our house in the country , which he hath given to us . 
-- the Marquis of Esmond , '' says the Prince , tossing off a glass , `` meddles too much with my affairs , and presumes on the service he hath done me . 
Either Castlewood or Esmond could have broke him across their knee , and in half-a-minute 's struggle put an end to him ; and here he was insulting us both , and scarce deigning to hide from the two whose honour it most concerned , the passion he felt for the young lady of our family . 
He opened the door communicating with the Prince 's room ; Martin , the servant , that had rode with Beatrix to Hounflow was just going out of the chamber as Esmond entered it , and when the fellow was gone , and the watchman again sang his cry of `` Passed ten o'clock , and a star-light night , '' Esmond spoke to the Prince in a low voice , and said : `` Your Royal Highness hears that man . '' 
I wish you a good night , and shall go to bed , unless it pleases the Marquis of Esmond to call his colleague , the watchman , and that I should pass the night with the Kensington guard . 
It led into the small chamber which Frank Castlewood or Monsieur Baptiste occupied , and by which Martin entered , when Colonel Esmond but now saw him in the chamber . 
`` I have soothed your Guest , '' says he , coming out to the two gentlemen and the widow , who had been made acquainted with somewhat of the dispute of the night before . 
Mr. Esmond was for having him march thither , escorted by a couple of troops of Horse Guards , and openly presenting himself to the Council . 
The Guard was with us within and without the Palace : the Queen was with us ; the Council , -LRB- save the two Whig Dukes , that must have succumbed ;-RRB- the day was our own , and with a beating heart Esmond walked rapidly to the Mall at Kensington , where he had parted with the Prince on the night before . 
This absence was most unpropitious , for an hour 's delay might cost a kingdom ; Esmond had nothing for it but to hasten to the King 's Arms , and tell the gentlemen there assembled , that Mr. George -LRB- as we called the Prince there -RRB- was not at home , but that Esmond would go fetch him ; and taking a General 's coach that happened to be there , Esmond drove across the country to Chelsey to the Bishop 's house there . 
`` O Harry ! '' 
The whole assembly of officers seemed to swim away before Esmond 's eyes as he read the paper ; all that was written on it was : -- `` Beatrix Esmond is sent away to prison , to Castlewood , where she will pray for happier days . '' 
He knew full well , Frank knew full well : our instinct told whither that traitor had fled . 
The Bishop blushed and stammered : `` Well , '' says he , `` I ... '' `` You served the villain right , '' broke out Mr. Esmond , `` and he has lost a crown by what you told him . '' 
My mistress turned quite white , `` Henry , Henry , '' says she , `` do not kill him . '' 
`` It may not be too late , '' says Esmond ; `` he may not have gone to Castlewood ; pray God , it is not too late . '' 
The Bishop was breaking out with some banales phrases about loyalty and the sacredness of the Sovereign 's person ; but Esmond sternly bade him hold his tongue , burn all papers , and take care of Lady Castlewood ; and in five minutes he and Frank were in the saddle , John Lockwood behind them , riding towards Castlewood at a rapid pace . 
He was going to rattle at the great iron knocker on the oak gate ; but Esmond stopped his kinsman 's hand . 
He had his own fears , his own hopes , his own despairs and griefs , too : but he spoke not a word of these to his companion , or showed any signs of emotion . 
He went and tapped at the little window at the porter 's lodge , gently , but repeatedly , until the man came to the bars . 
He would have fired at the porter , but Esmond again held his hand . 
`` There are more ways than one , '' says he , `` of entering such a great house as this . '' 
-- `` But I know of a way that 's not a hundred yards off , '' says Mr. Esmond ; and leading his kinsman close along the wall , and by the shrubs , which had now grown thick on what had been an old moat about the house , they came to the buttress , at the side of which the little window was , which was Father Holt 's private door . 
Then they asked him -LRB- Esmond 's head reeled , and he almost fell as he spoke -RRB- when Lord Castlewood had arrived ? 
`` What will you do , Harry , if -- if what that fellow faith should turn out untrue ? '' 
The young man looked scared and frightened into his kinsman 's face : I dare say it wore no very pleasant expression . 
`` Let us first go see whether the two stories agree , '' says Esmond : and went in at the passage and opened the door into what had been his own chamber now for well nigh five-and-twenty years . 
`` It is the Marquis of Esmond , '' says the Colonel , `` come to welcome his Majesty to his house of Castlewood , and to report of what hath happened in London . 
`` The snare , Sir , '' said he , `` was not of our laying ; it is not we that invited you . 
In fact , and actually as he was speaking , Esmond cast his eyes down towards the table , and saw a paper on which my young Prince had been scrawling a Madrigal , that was to finish his charmer on the morrow . 
`` If your Majesty will please to enter the next apartment , '' says Esmond , preserving his grave tone , `` I have some papers there which I would gladly submit to you , and by your permission I will lead the way ; '' and taking the taper up , and backing before the Prince with very great ceremony , Mr. Esmond passed into the little Chaplain 's room , through which we had just entered into the house : -- `` Please to set a chair for his Majesty , Frank , '' says the Colonel to his companion , who wondered almost as much at this scene , and was as much puzzled by it , as the other actor in it . 
And as Esmond spoke he set the papers burning in the brazier . 
`` You will please , sir , to remember , '' he continued , `` that our family had ruined itself by sidelity to yours : that my grandfather spent his estate , and gave his blood and his son to die for your service ; that my dear lord 's grandfather -LRB- for lord you are now , Frank , by right and title too , -RRB- died for the same cause ; that my poor kinswoman , my father 's second wife , after giving away her honour to your wicked perjured race , sent all her wealth to the King : and got in return that precious title that lies in ashes , and this inestimable yard of blue ribband . 
Extremely touched by this immense mark of condescension and repentance for wrong done , Colonel Esmond bowed down so low , as almost to kiss the gracious young hand that conferred on him such an honour , and took his guard in silence . 
The swords were no sooner met , than Castlewood knocked up Esmond 's with the blade of his own , which he had broke off short at the shell ; and the Colonel falling back a step dropped his point with another very low bow , and declared himself perfectly satisfied . 
If words could stab , no doubt she would have killed Esmond ; she looked at him as if she could . 
But her keen words gave no wound to Mr. Esmond ; his heart was too hard . 
As he looked at her , he wondered that he could ever have loved her . 
His love of ten years was over , it fell down dead on the spot , at the Kensington Tavern , where Frank brought him the note out of Eikon Basilike . 
My lord rode outside , and as for Esmond he was so tired that he was no sooner in the carriage , than he fell asleep and never woke till night , as the coach came into Alton . 
`` All 's well , thank God , '' says he , as the fond lady took his hand and kissed it , and called him her preserver and her dear . 
The Prince and his Prime-minister in one , Esmond in the other with only his dear mistress as a companion . 
Esmond discoursing to his mistress of the events of the last twenty-four hours ; of Castlewood 's ride and his ; of the Prince 's generous behaviour and their reconciliation . 
