However , if you call me Wilder , I shall not fail to answer . '' 
`` Wilder ! '' 
`` Few sigh for me , '' returned Wilder , thoughtfully , though he evidently began to chafe a little under this free sort of catechism . 
The place might do , at need , '' returned he in green , casting a rapid and peculiar glance around him . 
Stepping lightly to one of the little perforations which had once served as windows to the tower , he cautiously thrust his head through the opening ; and , after gazing there half a minute , he withdrew it again , making a gesture to the attentive Wilder to be silent . 
By a sort of tacit consent , Wilder and the barrister chose spots favourable to the execution of such a purpose ; and each continued , during the time the visiters remained near the ruin , examining their persons , unseen themselves , and we are sorry we must do so much violence to the breeding of two such important characters in our legend , amused and attentive listeners also to their conversation . 
At length the former shook off his air of thought , with that startling quickness which seemed common to his manner ; he approached a window , and , directing the attention of Wilder to the ship in the outer harbour , abruptly demanded , -- `` Has all your interest in yon vessel ceased ? '' 
Wilder kept his own keen look on the countenance of the other , as he thus questioned him , and seemed to ponder long before he ventured on a reply . 
he coldly asked . 
Then , looking up at the wondering Wilder , he nodded his head familiarly , repeated his adieu , and passed with a swift step from beneath the arches . 
`` This is extraordinary conduct , '' muttered Wilder , who was by the process left a prisoner in the ruin . 
After ascertaining that a fail from the trap might endanger his legs , the young sailor ran to one of the windows of the place , in order to reproach his treacherous comrade , or indeed to assure himself that he was serious in thus deserting him . 
The barrister was already out of hailing distance , and , before Wilder had time to decide on what course to take , his active footsteps had led him into the skirts of the town , among the buildings of which his person became immediately lost to the eye . 
As the appetite of the former became appeased , his didactic disposition returned , and , at the precise moment when Wilder was left alone in the tower , he was intently engaged in admonishing the black on the delicate subject of behaviour in mixed society . 
`` And so you see , Guinea , '' he concluded , `` in order to keep a weather-helm in company , you are never to throw all aback , and go stern foremost out of a dispute , as you have this day seen fit to do . 
Wilder , in those brief , pithy tones that distinguish the manner in which a sea officer issues his orders , directed them to raise the ladder . 
`` Follow , '' cried Wilder , starting forward in the direction indicated by Fid , without waiting to hear any more of the other 's characteristic explanations . 
When , therefore , Wilder and his two companions issued , at that hour , from their place of retirement into the empty streets , they found them as still as if man had never trod there . 
It would seem our adventurers knew their errand well ; for , instead of knocking up any of the drowsy publicans to demand admission , they held their way steadily to the water 's side ; Wilder leading , Fid coming next , and Scipio , in conformity to all usage , bringing up the rear , in his ordinary , quiet , submissive manner . 
Wilder gave his companions their directions , and walked to a place convenient for embarking . 
demanded Wilder ; `` Is not one enough ? 
`` Fellow , '' returned Wilder , angrily , `` you will one day induce me to turn you adrift . 
Wilder made an impatient gesture to the other to obey , and walked up the bank , while he had time to comply . 
Fid never disputed a positive and distinct order , though he often took so much discretionary latitude in executing those which were less precise . 
He did not hesitate , therefore , to return the boat ; but he did not carry his subordination so far as to do it without complaint . 
When this act of justice was performed , Wilder entered the skiff ; and , seeing that his companions were seated at their oars , he bade them to pull down the harbour , admonishing them , at the same time , to make as little noise as possible . 
`` The night I rowed you into Louisbourg , a-reconnoitring , '' said Fid , thrusting his left hand into his bosom , while , with his right , he applied sufficient force to the light oar to make the skiff glide swiftly over the water -- `` that night we muffled every thing , even to our tongues . 
`` Lay on your oars , '' interrupted Wilder ; `` let the boat drift by this vessel . '' 
As the skiff floated past , Wilder examined the vessel , by the dim light of the stars , with a seaman 's eye . 
No part of her hull , her spars , or her rigging , escaped his notice ; and , when the whole became confounded , by the distance , in one dark mass of shapeless matter , he leaned his head over the side of his little bark , and mused long and deeply with himself . 
It had the appearance of professional duty ; a subject that , in his eyes , was endowed with a species of character that might be called sacred . 
After losing many minutes in this manner , Wilder suddenly regained his recollection , and abruptly observed , -- `` It is a tall ship , and one that should make a long chase ! '' 
`` Should that fellow get a free wind , and his canvas all abroad , it might worry a King 's cruiser to get nigh enough to throw the iron on his decks ; but jamm 'd up close hauled , why , I 'd engage to lay on his weather quarter , with the saucy He -- '' `` Boys , '' interrupted Wilder , `` it is now proper that you should know something of my future movements . 
As for Guinea , here , the chap makes fair weather with you , blow high or blow low , whereas it is no hard matter to get up a squall between us , as might be seen in that small affair about the boat ; '' -- `` Say no more of it , '' interrupted Wilder , whose feelings appeared sensibly touched , as his recollections ran over long-past and bitterly-remembered scenes : `` You know that little else than death can part us , unless indeed you choose to quit me now . 
`` Remember the cautions you have already received , '' returned Wilder , who saw that the devotion of his followers was too infinite to need quickening , and who knew , from long and perilous experience , how implicitly he might rely on their fidelity , notwithstanding certain failings , that were perhaps peculiar to their condition ; `` remember what I have already given in charge ; and now pull directly for yon ship in the outer harbour . '' 
As they approached the vessel , the strokes of the oars were moderated , and finally abandoned altogether , Wilder preferring to let the skiff drop down with the tide upon the object he wished well to examine before venturing to board . 
he demanded , in a voice that was lowered to the tones necessary to escape observation , and which betrayed , at the same time , the interest he took in the reply . 
continued Wilder , who rarely paid much attention to the amplifications with which Fid so often saw fit to embellish the discourse . 
Without taking time to ascertain that the plashing of oars was to be heard in the distance , Wilder raised his form in the skiff , and answered . 
`` Cutting the waves with my taffrail , '' returned Wilder , after a moment 's hesitation . 
muttered his interrogator . 
Wilder had now an opportunity to discover , that , as the hail had been intended for another boat , which was still at a distance , he had answered prematurely . 
But , perceiving that it was too late to retreat with safety , or perhaps only acting in conformity to his original determination , he directed his companions to obey . 
`` ` Cutting the waves with the taffrail , ' is not the civillest answer a man can give to a hail , '' muttered Fid , as he dropped the blade of his oar into the water ; `` nor is it a matter to be logged in a man 's memory , that they have taken offence at the same . 
Wilder ascended the side of the vessel amid a deep , and , as he felt it to be , an ominous silence . 
But to Wilder these familiar objects furnished no immediate attraction . 
exclaimed Wilder , in some secret alarm . 
demanded the other , with a start that manifested he stood in a salutary awe of his superior . 
Then , as if he might have said too much , he added hastily , `` We slavers carry little else , you know , than our shackles and a few extra tierces of rice ; the rest of our ballast is made up of these guns , and the stuff to put into them . '' 
His words were nearly drowned by the same gruff voice that had brought-to the skiff of Wilder , which sent another hoarse summons across the water , rolling out sounds that were intended to say , -- `` Boat , ahoy ! '' 
The individual , with whom Wilder had been holding such equivocating parlance , seemed embarrassed by the sudden interruption , and a little at a loss to know how to conduct himself . 
He had already made a motion to wards leading his visiter to the cabin , when the sounds of oars were heard clattering in a boat along side of the ship , announcing that he was too late . 
Bidding the other remain where he was , he sprang to the gangway , in order to receive those who had just arrived . 
By this sudden desertion , Wilder found himself in entire possession of that part of the vessel where he stood . 
It gave him a better opportunity to renew his examination , and to cast a scrutinizing eye also over the new comers . 
During the whole of this process , which in itself had nothing extraordinary or out of the daily practice of large vessels in port , Wilder had strained his eyes , until they appeared nearly ready to start from their sockets . 
The whole event was of a character to attract the attention of Wilder . 
His eye was not , however , so intently riveted on the groupe in the gangway , as to prevent his detecting a dozen black objects , that were suddently thrust forward , from behind the spars and other dark masses of the vessel . 
`` You seem to have a summary method of hoisting them in , '' returned Wilder . 
Then , as if as well content with his humour as with this simple explanation , the other laughted and chuckled , in a manner that showed he was in perfect good humour with himself . 
`` But all this time you are left on deck , '' he quickly added , `` and the Captain is waiting your appearance in the cabin : Follow ; I will be your pilot . '' 
`` Hold , '' said Wilder ; `` will it not be as well to announce my visit ? '' 
Wilder made no further objection , but indicated his readiness to proceed . 
The other led the way to the bulkhead which separated the principal cabin from the quarter-deck of the ship ; and , pointing to a door , he rather whispered than said aloud , -- `` Tap twice ; if he answer , go in . '' 
Wilder did as he was directed . 
His first summons was either unheard or disregarded . 
On repeating it , he was bid to enter . 
The cabin included four of those dark cannon whose weight and number had been first to catch the attention of Wilder . 
These dispositions , a little different from what he had been accustomed to see , instantly struck the eye of Wilder , though leisure was not then given to reflect on their uses and objects . 
`` I believe I may answer , To the invitation of her Captain , '' Wilder answered , with a steadiness and calmness equal to that displayed by the other . 
Yes , Mr Wilder , '' he added with dignity motioning to his guest to imitate his example , and take a seat , `` I am , like yourself , a seaman bred ; and happy am I to add , the Commander of this gallant vessel . '' 
This is an oddly-constructed world in which we live , Mr Wilder ! 
Wilder was by far too deeply interested , to break the sudden reverie into which his companion had now evidently fallen , even by breathing as loud as usual . 
Wilder started as this unexpected individual appeared ; nor was the stranger wanting in an aspect sufficiently remarkable to produce surprise in any spectator . 
The figure descended , in the same rigid , spectral manner as it had risen on the sight , leaving Wilder again alone with the Captain of the ship . 
He then opened a little casket that stood on the table , and drew from it a parchment , which he coolly handed to Wilder , saying , as he did so , with one of the quick , searching glances of his restless eye , `` You will see , by that , we have ` letters of marque , ' and are duly authorized to fight the battles of the King , while we are conducting our own more peaceable affairs . '' 
Then , rising from his seat , he began to pace the cabin with quick steps , as he continued , `` I need not tell you , Mr Wilder , that ours is a hazardous pursuit . 
`` My owners are very reasonable , '' returned the other , with a meaning smile , while he cast another searching glance at his guest , which compelled Wilder to lower his own eyes to the cabin floor ; `` they seldom trouble me with importunities , or orders . '' 
And yet , '' he added , glancing his eye at the silken divan before which Wilder was seated , `` I have met the rascals ; nor have we parted entirely without communication ! 
Wilder turned his head , to throw a look on the valuable emblem , that was really suspended from the bulkhead , within a few inches of the spot the other named . 
After satisfying his curiosity , he was in the act of giving his attention again to the flags , when he detected another of those penetrating , but stolen glances with which his companion so often read the countenance of his associates . 
Let that be as it would , Wilder smiled ; for , at that moment , the idea first occurred that the ornaments of the cabin had been thus studiously arranged with an expectation of his arrival , and with the wish that their richness might strike his senses favourably . 
The other caught the expression of his eye ; and perhaps he mistook its meaning , when he suffered his construction of what it said to animate him to pursue his whimsical analysis of the flags , with an air still more cheerful and vivacious than before . 
Your hardy , valiant Dane ; your sturdy Swede ; a nest of smaller fry , '' he continued , passing his hand rapidly over a dozen little rolls as they lay , each in its own repository , `` who spread their bunting like larger states ; and your luxurious Neapolitan . 
exclaimed his listener , who seemed to feel much that sort of horror that a churchman would discover at the detection of sacrilege . 
demanded Wilder , after a moment of intense thought . 
Mr Wilder , '' he added , losing the mixture of irony and pleasantry with which he had supported the previous dialogue , in an air of authority , `` We understand each other . 
It is time that each should sail under his proper colours . 
`` I believe it is unnecessary , '' said Wilder . 
`` If I can comprehend these palpable signs , I stand in presence of -- of -- '' `` The Red Rover , '' continued the other , observing that he hesitated to pronounce the appalling name . 
Though it must be very evident , from what preceded this open avowal , that Wilder was not ignorant of the character of the ship on board of which he had just ventured , yet did he not receive the acknowledgment without embarrassment . 
The reputation of this renowned freebooter , his daring , his acts of liberality and licentiousness so frequently blended , and his desperate disregard of life on all occasions , were probably crowding together in the recollection of our more youthful adventurer , and caused him to feel that species of responsible hesitation , to which we are all more or less subject on the occurrence of important events , be they ever so much expected . 
exclaimed Wilder , with sudden and deep emphasis . 
The Rover smiled calmly , as he continued , -- `` Young gentlemen of your years are apt to carry no small portion of their hearts in their hands . 
cried Wilder , `` No human being -- '' `` Can ever be certain his secrets are safe , '' interrupted the other , `` when he carries a face as ingenuous as your own . 
demanded Wilder , in a surprise he took no pains to conceal . 
You pleased me , Wilder ; and I hope the satisfaction may be mutual . '' 
The newly engaged buccanier bowed to the compliment of his superior , and appeared at some little loss for a reply : As if to get rid of the subject at once , he hurriedly observed , -- `` As we now understand each other , I will intrude no longer , but leave you for the night , and return to my duty in the morning . '' 
returned the Rover , stopping short in his walk , and fastening his eye keenly on the other . 
`` We may as well understand each other , '' said Wilder , quickly . 
`` I must return to the land , '' Wilder added , firmly , `` if it be only to know that I am intrusted , and am not a prisoner . '' 
`` I will swear it , '' eagerly interrupted Wilder . 
No , sir , '' he added , with a proud curl of the lip , as he cast the jewel contemptuously aside , `` oaths are made for men who need laws to keep them to their promises ; I need no more than the clear and unequivocal affirmation of a gentleman . '' 
-- Roderick , '' he added , again touching the gong , `` you are wanted , boy . '' 
Advancing a step , with the grace and tones of sensitive breeding , he said quickly , -- `` Mr Wilder , I owe you an apology for my seeming rudeness at parting on the hill . 
Wilder turned , with a countenance from which every shade of displeasure had vanished , and motioned to him to say no more . 
`` The good man , who grinds in the Newport ruin , must be in a sad way , since all the rats are leaving his mill , '' cried the Rover gaily , as his companion descended after the boy . 
Wilder now freely returned his open , cordial laugh , and then , as he descended , the cabin was left to him who , a few minutes before , had been found in its quiet possession . 
TheRover arrested his step , as the other disappeared , and stood for more than a minute in an attitude of high and self-gratulating triumph . 
It was quite apparent he was exulting in his success . 
But , though his intelligent face betrayed the satisfaction of the inward man , it was illumined by no expression of vulgar joy . 
After allowing sufficient time for the boy to conduct Wilder to the necessary cabin , and to put him in possession of the regulations for the police of the ship , the Captain again touched the gong , and once more summoned the former to his presence . 
There was little departure , in this disposition of the accommodations , from the ordinary arrangements of vessels of war of the same description and force as the `` Rover ; '' but Wilder had not failed to remark , that the bulkheads which separated the cabins from the birth-deck , or the part occupied by the crew , were far stouter than common , and that a small howitzer was at hand , to be used , as a physician might say , internally , should occasion require . 
Approaching the corner in which the latter had seated himself , the former said , in a frank , encouraging , and even confidential manner , -- `` I hope you find our laws sufficiently firm , Mr Wilder . '' 
`` I was about to say , ` Even in his Majesty 's service , ' '' returned Wilder , slightly colouring . 
eagerly interrupted Wilder . 
`` A little unlimited , '' said Wilder , with a smile that might have passed for ironical . 
`` I hope you will have no occasion to say that it is arbitrarily executed , '' returned the Rover , without observing , or perhaps without letting it appear that he observed , the expression of his companion 's countenance . 
`` It is , '' Wilder calmly replied ; `` but , as we are all seamen , the difference is not so great as one would at first imagine . 
The Rover suffered him to leave the cabin , following to the quarter-deck , with a careless step , as if he had come abroad to breathe the open air of the night . 
The same stillness as before reigned on the decks of the ship ; and nowhere , with a solitary exception , was a human form to be seen , amid the collection of dark objects that rose on the sight , all of which Wilder well understood to be necessary fixtures in the vessel . 
exclaimed Wilder , stepping back in surprise , as he was about to descend the vessel 's side . 
Intimating his intention to seek the men , he passed into the forward parts of the vessel , leaving Wilder , as he thought , in the sole possession of the quarter-deck . 
The Rover , advancing carelessly to his side , made an allusion to the condition of his vessel , in order to divert the thoughts of his new lieutenant , who , by his hurried manner of pacing the deck , he saw , was beginning to indulge in uneasy meditations . 
`` A charming sea-boat , Mr Wilder , '' he continued , `` and one that never throws a drop of spray abaft her mainmast . 
`` Few ships , under six hundred tons , sail from these colonies , that are not built to serve my purposes , '' returned the Rover , with a smile ; as if he would cheer his companion , by displaying the mine of wealth that was opening to him , through the new connexion he had made . 
`` I hope , Mr Wilder , you find this vessel in such a state that a seaman need not blush for her ? '' 
said Wilder ; more like one who mused , than one who intended to express the opinion aloud . 
He stopped ; and Wilder , perceiving that he was not yet deemed entitled to entire confidence , continued silent . 
Wilder then directed the negro to return to his messmate , and to watch over him so long as he should be unable to look after himself . 
It was , in truth , no other than Wilder . 
But , in the completion of his own secret purposes , the young mariner left the wordy war in his rear ; and , turning up the gentle ascent , against the side of which the town is built , he proceeded towards the suburbs . 
It was not difficult to distinguish the house he sought , among a dozen other similar retreats , by its `` shades , '' as the innkeeper , in conformity to a provincial use of the word , had termed a few really noble elms that grew in the little court before its door . 
Wilder was first drawn from his musings by the sound of a dialogue that came from persons who were evidently approaching . 
There was one voice , in particular , that caused his blood to thrill , he knew not why , and which appeared unaccountably , even to himself , to set in motion every latent faculty of his system . 
Profiting , by the formation of the ground , he sprang , unseen , up a little bank , and , approaching an angle in a low wall , he found himself in the immediate proximity of the speakers . 
The wall enclosed the garden and pleasure-grounds of a mansion , that he now perceived was the residence of Mrs de Lacey . 
Here Wilder discovered precisely the very party to whose conversation he had been a listener the previous day , while caged , with the Rover , in the loft of the ruin . 
Directed by the voice , Wilder was next enabled to perceive the person of a man in a green old age , who , seated on a stone by the way side , appeared to be resting his weary limbs , while he answered to some interrogations from the summer-house . 
There was something so sweet and gentle , at the same time that it was manly , in the voice of Wilder , that the ladies , by a common impulse , seemed struck with its peculiarities . 
The neatness of his attire , which , while it was strictly professional , was worn with an air of smartness , and even of gentility , that rendered it difficult to suppose that he was not entitled to lay claim to a higher station in society than that in which he actually appeared , added to this impression . 
The lip of Wilder curled , and a smile struggled with the gravity of his countenance ; but he continued silent . 
`` The very quality I should most deny , '' was the laconic answer of Wilder . 
Had I mother , or sister , '' touching his hat , and bowing to his fair interrogator , as he uttered the latter word with much emphasis , `` I would hesitate to let her embark in that ship . 
His auditors listened to this opinion , which Wilder delivered in an oracular and very decided manner , with that sort of secret faith , and humble dependance , which the uninstructed are so apt to lend to the initiated in the mysteries of any imposing profession . 
Neither of them had certainly a very clear perception of his meaning ; but there were , apparently , danger and death in his very words . 
The calm , penetrating eye of Wyllys had been riveted on the countenance of Wilder while he was speaking , and she now turned it , with undisturbed serenity , on the Admiral 's widow , to reply . 
`` It is some time , I fancy , old man , since you were last at sea , '' Wilder coolly observed . 
Mrs Wyllys suspended her questions , just as long as complaisance to the last speaker seemed to require ; and then she resumed them as follows , addressing her next inquiry to Wilder . 
Wilder appeared confounded . 
He bit his lip , like one who was over-reached either by excessive ignorance or exceeding cunning ; but the self-complacency of Mrs de Lacey spared him the necessity of an immediate reply . 
The aged tar lifted his bending frame from the stone , and bowed low , as he answered , -- `` If I have the honour of seeing my Admiral 's Lady , it will prove a joyful sight to my old eyes . 
Mrs de Lacey turned , with an air of great dignity and entire decision , to Wilder , as she continued , -- `` I have , then , made a small mistake in memory , which is not surprising , when one recollects , that he who taught me so much of the profession is no longer here to continue his lessons . 
`` On my honour , Madam , '' interrupted Wilder , laying his hand on his heart , and speaking with singular emphasis , `` I am sincere in what I say . 
Then , bowing to Wilder , she led the way up the garden , followed by all her companions . 
Wilder fancied that he could discover the stolen and anxious glance that she threw back towards one who had excited a decided emotion in her sensitive bosom , though it was a feeling no more attractive than alarm . 
He lingered until they were lost amid the shrubbery . 
Then , turning to pour out his disappointment on his brother tar , he found that the old man had made such good use of his time , as to be entering the gate , most probably felicitating himself on the prospect of reaping the reward of his recent adulation . 
It was only as these movements caught his eye , that Wilder seemed to be thoroughly awakened from his abstraction , and to pursue his observations with an undivided mind . 
He saw the seamen ascend the rigging , in that lazy manner which is so strongly contrasted by their activity in moments of need ; and here and there a human form was showing itself on the black and ponderous yards . 
This , the attentive Wilder well knew , was , among all trading vessels , the signal of sailing . 
But , to the understanding eye of Wilder , she exhibited a very different spectacle . 
He easily saw , through all this apparently drowsy quietude , those signs of readiness which a seaman only might discover . 
Wilder shook his head , in a manner which said plainly enough how well he understood this treacherous tranquillity , and continued his walk towards the town , with the same deliberate step as before . 
He had whiled away many minutes unconsciously , and would probably have lost the reckoning of as many more , had not his attention been suddenly diverted by a slight touch on the shoulder . 
Starting at this unexpected diversion , he turned , and saw , that , in his dilatory progress , he had been overtaken by the seaman whom he had last seen in that very society in which he would have given so much to have been included himself . 
`` Your young limbs should carry you ahead , Master , '' said the latter , when he had succeeded in attracting the attention of Wilder , `` like a ` Mudian going with a clean full , and yet I have fore-reached upon you with my old legs , in such a manner as to bring us again within hail . '' 
`` Perhaps you enjoy the extraordinary advantage of ` cutting the waves with your taffrail , ' '' returned Wilder , with a sneer . 
muttered Wilder between his teeth . 
Wilder sauntered up the hill , endeavouring to assume the unconcerned air of an idler , if by chance his return should excite attention ; but , though he lingered long in open view of the windows of Mrs de Lacey 's villa , he was not able to catch another glimpse of its tenants . 
There were very evident symptoms of the approaching journey , in the trunks and packages that left the building for the town , and in the hurried and busy manner of the few servants that he occasionally saw ; but it would seem that the principal personages of the establishment had withdrawn into the secret recesses of the building , probably for the very natural purpose of confidential communion and affectionate leave-taking . 
He was turning , vexed and disappointed , from his anxious and fruitless watch , when he once more heard female voices on the inner side of the low wall agaínst which he had been leaning . 
The sounds approached ; nor was it long before his quick ears again recognized the musical voice of Gertrude . 
Wilder thought there was a melody in the intonations of the youthful voice of the maiden , which in some measure excused the personality , as she answered . 
After apologizing for his intrusion on the private grounds of Mrs de Lacey , and recovering his lost property , Wilder was slowly preparing to retire , as if nothing had happened . 
There was a softness and delicacy in his manner , during the first moment of his appearance , which was probably intended to convince the younger of the ladies that he was not entirely without some claims to the title she had so recently denied him , and which was certainly not without its effect . 
Wilder bowed , and again faced the ladies , whom he had just been about to quit , like one who felt he had no right to intrude a moment longer than had been necessary to recover that which had been lost by his pretended awkwardness . 
Wilder carelessly replied . 
`` I hope , Madam , that nothing which I have said , '' he hastily continued , `` will have an effect to prejudice you against the ship . 
`` I did , '' answered Wilder , with a manner not to be mistaken . 
`` I understood it so , '' returned Wilder , keeping his thoughtful gaze riveted on the speaking countenance of the deeply interested Gertrude . 
Wilder started , and even had the grace to colour , as he met the calm and attentive look of Mrs Wyllys 's searching , but placid eye . 
`` You would not have me repeat , Madam , '' he stammered , `` what I have already said on the subject ? '' 
The old man spoke with energy , and a great show of honest indignation , which did not fail to make an impression on the ladies , at the same time that it brought certain ungrateful admonitions to the conscience of the understanding Wilder . 
-- I am afraid , sir , '' continued Mrs Wyllys , turning to the expecting Wilder , `` that unless you see fit to be more frank , we shall be compelled to refuse you our faith , and still persevere in our intention to profit , by the opportunity of the ` Royal Caroline , ' to get to the Carolinas . '' 
Wilder appeared to muse , and once or twice his lips moved , as if he were about to speak . 
Mrs Wyllys and Gertrude awaited his intentions with intense interest ; but , after a long and seemingly hesitating pause , he disappointed both , by saying , -- `` I am sorry that I have not the ability to make myself better understood . 
Wilder returned the grave bow of Mrs Wyllys with one quite as formal as her own ; though he bent with greater grace , and with more cordiality , to the deep but hurried curtesy of Gertrude Grayson . 
`` I had hoped , when I gave you the bottom of the hill , and took the top myself , '' returned Wilder , without even deigning to look at his disagreeable companion , `` that we had parted company for ever . 
The old man shuffled after him , with a gait that rendered it difficult for Wilder , who was by this time in a fast walk , to outstrip him , without resorting to the undignified expedient of an actual flight . 
Vexed alike with himself and his tormentor , he was tempted to offer some violence to the latter ; and then , recalled to his reccollection by the dangerous impulse , he moderated his pace , and continued his route , with a calm determination to be superior to any emotions that such a pitiful object could excite . 
`` You were going under such a press of sail , young Master , '' said the stubborn old mariner , who still kept a pace or two in his rear , `` that I had to set every thing to hold way with you ; but you now seem to be getting reasonable , and we may as well lighten the passage by a little profitable talk . 
bluntly demanded Wilder . 
The old man stretched out a hand , and took the guinea which Wilder had showed over his shoulder , without appearing to deem it at all necessary to face his recruit . 
The other very coolly pocketed the coin ; and then , with a certain hardened and decided way , as if he were now ready for any thing , he demanded , -- `` What hen-roost am I to rob for this ? '' 
Wilder waved his hand , and stepped lightly along the road the other had indicated to him , ruminating on the figure which the fresh and youthful charms of Gertrude had extorted from one even as old and as coarse as his new ally . 
His companion followed his person for a moment , with an amused look , and an ironical cast of the eye ; and then he also quickened his pace , in order to reach the place of rendezvous in sufficient season . 
As Wilder approached the `` Foul Anchor , '' he beheld every symptom of some powerful excitement existing within the bosom of the hitherto peaceful town . 
interrupted the other , displaying the money so lately received from Wilder , in such a manner that it might be seen by the few by-standers who remained , as though he would himself furnish a sufficient apology for the distinguished manner in which he was received ; `` who but this gentleman ? 
Wilder , who had approached the outer door of the tavern as the mob receded , witnessed the retreat of the two worthies into the recesses of the house , and immediately entered the bar-room himself . 
While deliberating on the manner in which he should arrive at a communication with his new confederate , without attracting too much attention to so odd an association , the landlord returned in person to relieve him . 
After casting a hasty glance around the apartment , his look settled on our adventurer , whom he approached in a manner half-doubting half-decided . 
he demanded , now recognizing , for the first time , the stranger with whom he had before held converse that morning . 
Wilder followed his conductor , who left the public apartment by a different door from that by which he had led his other guest into the interior of the house , wondering at the air of mystery that the innkeeper saw fit to assume on the occasion . 
After leading him by a circuitous passage , the latter showed Wilder , in profound silence , up a private stair-way , into the very attic of the building . 
Here he rapped lightly at a door , and was bid to enter , by a voice that caused our adventurer to start by its deepness and severity . 
While Wilder was staring about him , a good deal surprised at the situation in which he was placed , the landlord retired , and he found himself alone with his confederate . 
The latter was already engaged in discussing the fragment of the ox , just mentioned , and in quaffing of some liquid that seemed equally adapted to his taste , although sufficient time had not certainly been allowed to prepare the beverage he had seen fit to order . 
Without allowing his visiter leisure for much further reflection , the old mariner made a motion to him to take the only vacant chair in the room , while he continued his employment on the surloin with as much assiduity as though no interruption had taken place . 
`` Honest Joe Joram always makes a friend of his butcher , '' he said , after ending a draught that threatened to drain the mug to the bottom . 
`` It would be carrying the love of home a little too far , to believe in such universal superiority , '' returned Wilder , willing to divert the conversation from his real object , until he had time to arrange his ideas , and assure himself he had no other auditor but his visible companion . 
Wilder turned , and fastened a look of surprise on the old man , who continued to eat , however , as if he had uttered nothing but what might be considered as a matter-of-course opinion . 
demanded Wilder , perceiving that the other hesitated . 
Wilder did not seem disposed to wait for this permission ; he opened the door , even while the other was speaking , and , finding that the closet actually contained little else than the articles named by his companion , he turned away , like a man who was disappointed . 
Wilder did not appear to be quite as well content with the explanation as his companion , but he drew a chair , and prepared to open his subject . 
cried Bob , chuckling and winking at his companion in a way that displeased the latter by its familiarity ; `` I have not lived fifty years on blue water , to mistake it for the skies . '' 
`` That is possibly a means of retaliation that might suit your taste , '' said Wilder , gravely ; `` but which is not much in accordance with mine . 
Wilder turned , impatiently , and found that the landlord had entered the room , with a step so light as to have escaped his attention , which had been drawn to his companion with a force that the reader will readily comprehend . 
echoed Joram , fastening his eye , with marked distrust , on the countenance of the attentive Wilder . 
`` A thing easier planned than executed , '' Wilder thoughtfully answered . 
Wilder started , and turned away from his companion like one who was little pleased by the manner in which he expressed himself . 
Perceiving the necessity of a reply , however , he demanded , -- `` And what reason have you for believing your suspicions true ? 
`` Go , go ; this is idle talk ; a mere whim of your old brain , '' said Wilder , coldly ; `` and the less said the soonest mended . 
There was a look of satisfaction in the countenance of the old tar , while Wilder was speaking , that might have struck his companion , had not the young man risen , while speaking , to pace the narrow room , with a thoughtful and hurried step . 
Wilder returned to his seat , and disposed himself to give the necessary instructions to his confederate , in order that he might counteract all he had already said in favour of the outward-bound vessel . 
eaf058v1.n1 -LSB- 1 -RSB- It would seem , from this declaration , that certain legal antiquarians , who have contended that the community is indebted to Desire for the unceremonious manner of clipping the nuptial knot , which is so well known to exist , even to this hour , in the community of which she was a member , are entirely in the wrong . 
It evidently did not take its rise in her example , since she clearly alludes to it , as a means before resorted to by the injured innocents of her own sex . 
Of all this delay , the several movements on board , the subsequent signal of sailing , and of the impatience in the crowd , Wilder had been a grave and close observer . 
Posted with his back against the upright fluke of a condemned anchor , on a wharf a little apart from that occupied , by most of the other spectators , he had remained an hour in the same position , scarcely bending his look to his right hand or to his left . 
When the gun was fired he started , not with the nervous impulse which had made a hundred others do precisely the same thing , but to turn an anxious and rapid glance along the streets that came within the range of his eye . 
From this hasty and uneasy examination , he soon returned into his former reclining posture , though the wandering of his glances , and the whole expression of his meaning countenance , would have told an observer that some event , to which the young mariner looked forward with excessive interest , was on the eve of its consummation . 
As minute after minute , however , rolled by , his composure was gradually restored , and a smile of satisfaction lighted his features , while his lips moved like those of a man who expressed his pleasure in a soliloquy . 
It was in the midst of these agreeable meditations , that the sound of many voices met his ears ; and , turning , he saw a large party within a few yards of where he stood . 
He was not slow to detect among them the forms of Mrs Wyllys and Gertrude , attired in such a manner as to leave no doubt that they were at length on the eve of embarking . 
A cloud , driving before the sun , does not produce a greater change in the aspect of the earth , than was wrought in the expression of Wilder 's countenance , by this unexpected sight . 
He was just implicitly relying on the success of an artifice , which , though sufficiently shallow , he flattered himself was deep enough to act on the timidity and credulity of woman ; and , now , was he suddenly awoke from his self-gratulation , to prove the utter disappointment of his hopes . 
Muttering a suppressed but deep execration against the perfidy of his confederate , he shrunk as much as possible behind the fluke of the anchor , and fastened his eyes sullenly on the ship . 
Wilder heard several affectionate and warm-hearted wishes given , and promises extorted , from youthful voices , all of which were answered in the soft and mournful tones of Gertrude , and yet he obstinately refused to bend even a stolen look in the direction of the speakers . 
At length , a footstep , within a few feet of him , induced a hasty glance aside . 
His eye met that of Mrs Wyllys . 
Wilder again shrunk behind his cover , maintaining a proud position , and a countenance that was grave to austerity . 
His situation , however , compelled him to become an auditor of most of what was now said . 
muttered Wilder . -RSB- 
Wilder listened to the well-known sounds with a feverish interest , that he possibly might have found it difficult to explain even to himself . 
A light touch on the elbow first drew his attention from the disagreeable subject . 
Surprised at the circumstance , he faced the intruder , who appeared to be a lad of apparently some fifteen years . 
A second look was necessary , to tell the abstracted young mariner that he again saw the attendant of the Rover ; he who has already been introduced in our pages under the name of Roderick . 
The reason is obvious ; `` gold is yellow , though I am The signature , the matter , and the style of this letter , left Wilder in no doubt as to its author . 
Casting a glance around him , he sprang into a skiff ; and , before the boat of the travellers had reached the ship , that of Wilder had skimmed the water over half the distance between her and the land . 
As he plied his skulls with vigorous and skilful arms , he soon stood upon her decks . 
Forcing his way among the crowd of attendants from the shore , that are apt to cumber a departing ship , he reached the part of the vessel where a circle of busy and anxious faces told him he should find those most concerned in her fate . 
Until now , he had hardly breathed clearly , much less reflected on the character of his sudden enterprise . 
It was too late , however , to retreat , had he been so disposed , or to abandon his purpose , without incurring the hazard of exciting dangerous suspicions . 
A single instant served to recal his thoughts , ere he demanded , -- `` Do I see the owner of the ` Caroline ? ' '' 
`` I hope these documents may prove satisfactory , '' said Wilder , placing in his hands a couple of unsealed letters . 
During the time the other was reading the certificates , for such they proved to be , his shrewd eye was looking over his spectacles at the subject of their contents , and returning to the paper , in alternate glances , in such a way as to render it very evident that he was endeavouring to assure himself of the fidelity of the words he read , by actual observation . 
`` Not at all , not at all , Mr -- a -- a '' -- glancing his eye again into one of the letters ; `` ay -- Mr Wilder ; there is never any presumption in a fair offer , in a matter of business . 
But you can not expect us , Mr Wilder , to make a vacancy expressly for you to fill , though it must be admitted that your papers are excellent -- as good as the note of Spriggs , Boggs and Tweed themselves -- not to make a vacancy expressly '' -- `` I had supposed the Master of the ship so seriously injured '' -- `` Injured , but not seriously , '' interrupted the wary eonsignee , glancing his eye around at sundry shippers , and one or two spectators , who were within ear-shot ; `` injured certainly , but not so much as to quit the vessel . 
`` Then , sir , am I sorry to have intruded on your time at so busy a moment , '' said Wilder , bowing with a disappointed air , and falling back a step , as if about to withdraw . 
`` The reward is of no account , '' said Wilder , with an eagerness that might have overreached itself , had not the individual with whom he was bargaining fastened his thoughts on the means of cheapening the other 's services , with a steadiness from which they rarely swerved , when bent on so commendable an object as saving : `` I seek for service . '' 
Wilder turned in some haste , and in no little astonishment , to discover the acquaintance whom chance had thrown in so extraordinary , and possibly in so disagreeable a manner , across his path ; and that , too , in a portion of the country where he wished to believe himself an entire stranger . 
To his utter amazement , he found that the new speaker was no other than the landlord of the `` Foul Anchor . '' 
In order to effect this necessary operation , he had to put on his spectacles , -LRB- for the landlord of the `` Foul Anchor '' was in the wane of life -RRB- , and Wilder fancied that he stood , during the process , a notable example of how respectable depravity may become , in appearance , when supported by a reverend air . 
The latter then beckoned Wilder apart , and , after a little further preliminary discourse , the terms of the young mariner 's engagement were finally settled . 
Notwithstanding all these vexatious delays , and customary incumbrances , the `` Royal Caroline '' finally got rid of all her visiters but one , and Wilder was enabled to indulge in a pleasure that a seaman alone can appreciato -- that of clear decks and an orderly ship 's company . 
So soon , however , as Wilder found himself left without the molestation of idlers from the shore , and the busy interposition of the consignee , he cast his eyes about him , with the intention of immediately submitting the ship to its power . 
The `` Royal Caroline '' was not entirely without pretensions to the lofty name she bore . 
She was a vessel of that happy size in which comfort and convenience had been equally consulted . 
The letter of the Rover affirmed she had a reputation for her speed ; and her young and intelligent Commander saw , with great inward satisfaction , that she was not destitute of the means of enabling him to exhibit all her finest properties . 
Wilder smiled , like one satisfied with his success ; and , turning to pace the quarter-deck , he found himself once more confronted by the calm , considerate , but certainly astonished eye of Mrs Wyllys . 
`` You do me injustice , Madam , '' returned Wilder , with warmth , glancing his eye unconsciously towards the grave , but deeply attentive Gertrude , as he spoke ; `` there is no danger that I would not cheerfully encounter , to save you , or this young lady , from harm . '' 
Wilder lent himself , with feverish excitement , to the duty ; and , taking the words from the officer who was issuing the necessary orders , he assumed the immediate superintendence in person . 
By the time every thing was set , from the royals down , and the ship was cast with her head towards the harbour 's mouth , our adventurer had probably forgotten -LRB- for the moment only , it is true -RRB- that he was a stranger among those he was in so extraordinary a manner selected to command , and how precious a stake was intrusted to his firmness and decision . 
Perceiving that it was a boat belonging to the shore , Wilder walked forward , and demanded its owner . 
The sight of this man recalled Wilder to a recollection of all that had occurred that morning , and of the whole delicacy of the task he had undertaken to perform . 
`` A lucky trip you have made of it , Captain Wilder , '' he concluded , `` and I hope your passage will be short . 
demanded Wilder , dropping his voice so low as to reach no ears but those of the publican . 
Joram cast a furtive glance aside ; and , perceiving that they were alone , he suffered an expression of hardened cunning to take possession of a countenance that ordinarily seemed set in dull , physical contentment , as he replied , laying a finger on his nose while speaking , -- `` Did n't I tender the consignee a beautiful oath , master Wilder ? '' 
bless me , master Wilder , what would become of us all , in these difficult times , if we did not turn an honest penny in every way that offers ? 
`` Heaven bless you , master Wilder ! 
Wilder execrated , in his heart , the wary cunning of the rogue with whom he was compelled , for the moment , to be in league ; for he saw plainly that a determination not to commit himself a tittle further than he might conceive to be absolutely necessary , was likely to render Joram too circumspect , to answer his own immediate wishes . 
`` Bless me , Captain Wilder ! 
Both Wilder and the publican started , as if they found something alarming in the name of the vessel just alluded to ; and the former pointed to the skiff , as he said , -- `` Unless you wish to go to sea with us , Mr Joram , it is time your boat held its master . '' 
`` Ay , ay , I see you are fairly under way , and I must leave you , however much I like your company , '' returned the landlord of the ` Foul Anchor , ' bustling over the side , and getting into his skiff in the best manner he could . 
His order was obeyed ; the light skiff , no longer impelled by the ship , immediately deviated from its course ; and , after making a little circuit , it became stationary , while the mass of the vessel passed on , with the steadiness of an elephant from whose back a butterfly had just taken its flight . 
Wilder followed the boat with his eyes , for a moment ; but his thoughts were recalled by the voice of the pilot , who again called , from the forward part of the ship , -- `` Let the light sails lift a little , boy ; let her lift ; keep every inch you can , or you 'll not weather the slaver . 
`` You may laugh at me , and call me fickle , and perhaps credulous , dear Mrs Wyllys , '' the unsuspecting girl cried , just as Wilder had taken the foregoing position , `` but I wish we were well out of this ` Royal Caroline , ' and that our passage was to be made in yonder beautiful ship ! '' 
Gertrude blushed a little ; and , turning back her head to answer in the playful vein of her governess , her eye met the riveted look of Wilder , fastened on herself . 
exclaimed Wilder aloud , under an impulse that he found as irresistible as it was involuntary . 
The light symmetrical form of Gertrude continued leaning on the rail , it is true , but Wilder was unable to catch another glimpse of her averted and shadowed lineaments . 
Wilder felt , in every nerve , the probability that a crisis was at hand . 
It will be remembered that he was profoundly ignorant of the immediate intentions of the Rover . 
As the fort was not in a state for present service , it would not be difficult for the latter to seize upon his prey in open view of the townsmen , and bear it off , in contempt of their feeble means of defence . 
Unprepared , and unsuspecting , the `` Caroline , '' at no time a match for her powerful adversary , must fall an easy victim ; nor would there be much reason to apprehend that a single shot from the battery could reach them , before the captor , and his prize , would be at such a distance as to render the blow next to impotent , if not utterly innocuous . 
As the man was placed on the weather side of his own vessel , Wilder instantly conceived the idea that he was thus stationed to cast a grapnel into the rigging of the `` Caroline , '' should such a measure become necessary , in order to bring the two ships foul of each other . 
With a view to prevent so rude an encounter , he instantly determined to defeat the plan . 
Calling to the pilot , he told him the attempt to pass to windward was of very doubtful success , and reminded him that the safer way would be to go to leeward . 
Let her luff , boy ; luff her into the very eye of the wind ; luff , you can '' -- `` You have the ship shivering as it is , sir , '' said Wilder , sternly : `` Should you get us foul of the slaver , who is to pay the cost ? '' 
`` Ay , ay , keep her a good full , '' echoed the pilot , who , as the difficulty of passing to windward became at each instant more obvious , evidently began to waver in his resolution . 
Now , in point of fact , the wind , though a little lighter than it had been , was , if any thing , a trifle more favourable ; nor had Wilder ever , in any manner , denied that the ship would not have to tack , some twenty minutes sooner , by going to leeward of the other vessel , than if she had succeeded in her delicate experiment of passing on the more honourable side ; but , as the vulgarest minds are always the most reluctant to confess their blunders , the discomfited pilot was disposed to qualify the concession he found himself compelled to make , by some salvo of the sort , that he might not lessen his reputation for foresight , among his auditors . 
`` Keep her away at once , '' cried Wilder , who was beginning to change the tones of remonstrance for those of command ; `` keep the ship away , sir , while you have room to do it , or , by the '' -- His lips became motionless ; for his eye happened to fall on the pale , speaking , and anxious countenance of Gertrude . 
demanded Wilder , jumping hastily on a gun , in order to get a better view . 
His mate pointed to the lee-quarter of the other vessel , where , sure enough , a large rope was seen whipping the water , as though in the very process of being extended . 
The Rover lay secretly moored with a spring , with a view to bring his guns more readily to bear upon the battery , should his defence become necessary , and he now profited , by the circumstance , in order to prevent the trader from passing to leeward . 
The whole arrangement excited a good deal of surprise , and not a few execrations among the officers of the `` Caroline ; '' though none but her Commander had the smallest twinkling of the real reason why the kedge had thus been laid , and why a warp was so awkwardly stretched across their path . 
`` This is an extraordinary liberty to take in the mouth of a harbour , '' muttered Wilder , when his eyes put him in possession of the fact just related . 
Releasing his hold of its spokes , the wheel made a quick evolution ; and the ship , feeling a fresh impulse of the wind , turned her head heavily towards the quarter whence it came , the canvas fluttering with a noise like that produced by a flock of water-fowl just taking wing . 
But , met by the helm again , she soon fell off as before , powerless from having lost her way , and settling bodily down toward the fancied slaver , impelled by the air , which seemed , however , to have lost much of its force , at the critical instant it was most needed . 
She had forged so far ahead as to lie directly on the weather-beam of the stranger , but too near to enable her to fall-off in the least , without imminent danger that the vessels would come foul . 
As the ship felt the former , her tall masts bent gracefully towards the slaver , as if to make the parting salute ; but , relieved from the momentary pressure of the inconstant air , she as often rolled heavily to windward , without advancing a foot . 
The effect of each change , however , was to bring her still nigher to her dangerous neighbour , until it became evident , to the judgment of the youngest seaman in the vessel , that nothing but a sudden shift of wind could enable her to pass ahead , the more especially as the tide was on the change . 
In the mean time , Wilder had folded his arms with an appearance of entire composure , and taken his station near his female passengers . 
Mrs Wyllys closely studied his eye , with the wish of ascertaining , by its expression , the nature and extent of their danger , if danger there might be , in the approaching collision of two ships in water that was perfectly smooth , and where one was stationary , and the motion of the other scarcely perceptible . 
Both females regarded the peculiarly bitter smile with which Wilder made this reply as an evil omen , and Gertrude clung to her companion as to one on whom she had long been accustomed to lean . 
`` Keep near to me , '' returned Wilder , in tones that were nearly smothered by the manner in which he compressed his lips . 
Wilder was standing on the head of the capstan , where he could command a full view on every side of him . 
With a quick and understanding glance , he had made himself a perfect master of the situation of his ship . 
His eye was at the instant fixed anxiously on the slaver , as if it would pierce the treacherous calm which still reigned on all about her , in order to know how far his exertions might be permitted to be useful . 
But it appeared as if the stranger lay like some enchanted vessel on the water , not a human form even appearing about all her complicated machinery , except the seaman already named , who still continued his employment , as though the `` Caroline '' was not within a hundred miles of the place where he sat . 
The lips of Wilder moved : it might be in bitterness ; it might be in satisfaction ; for , a smile of the most equivocal nature lighted his features , as he continued , in the same deep , commanding voice as before , -- `` Throw all aback -- lay every thing flat to the masts , forward and aft . '' 
`` Throwhim in , '' sternly repeated Wilder . 
In the mean time , the order of Wilder had been executed . 
Those vast sheets of canvas which , a moment before , had been either fluttering in the air , or were bellying inward or outward , as they touched or filled , as it is technically called , were now all pressing against their respective masts , impelling the vessel to retrace her mistaken path . 
But her young Commander proved himself , in every particular , competent to his task . 
The voice of Wilder , throughout , though calm , was breathing with authority . 
The ship itself seemed , like an animated being , conscious that her destinies were reposed in different , and more intelligent , hands than before . 
Throughout the whole of the time necessary to extricate the `` Caroline , '' the attention of Wilder was divided between his own ship and his inexplicable neighbour . 
Not the smallest of these changes escaped the keen and understanding examination of Wilder . 
He saw , that , as his own ship retired , the side of the slaver was gradually exposed to the `` Caroline . '' 
The muzzles of the threatening guns gaped constantly on his vessel , as the eye of the crouching tiger follows the movement of its prey ; and at no time , while nearest , did there exist a single instant that the decks of the latter ship could not have been swept , by a general discharge from the battery of the former . 
At each successive order issued from his own lips , our adventurer turned his eye , with increasing interest , to ascertain whether he would be permitted to execute it ; and never did he feel certain that he was left to the sole management of the `` Caroline '' until he found that she had backed from her dangerous proximity to the other ; and that , obedient to a new disposition of her sails , she was falling off , before the light air , in a place where he could hold her entirely at command . 
Finding that the tide was getting unfaourable , and the wind too light to stem it , the sails were then drawn to her yards in festoons , and an anchor was dropped to the bottom . 
In dismissing the pilot , Wilder had assumed a responsibility from which a seaman usually shrinks ; since , in the case of any untoward accident in leaving the port , it would involve a loss of insurance , and his own probable punishment . 
How far he had been influenced , in taking so decided a step , by a knowledge of his being beyond , or above , the reach of the law , will probably be made manifest in the course of the narrative ; the only immediate effect of the measure , was , to draw the whole of his attention , which had before been so much divided between his passengers and the ship , to the care of the latter . 
But , so soon as his vessel was secured , for a time at least , and his mind was no longer excited by the expectation of a scene of immediate violence , our adventurer found leisure to return to his former , though -LRB- to so thorough a seaman -RRB- scarcely more agreeable occupation . 
Be this as it might , Wilder no sooner saw that the `` Caroline '' was swinging to her anchor , and that his services were of no further immediate use , than he sought an opportunity to renew a conversation which had hitherto been so vague , and so often interrupted . 
The look of Wilder followed her own ; and when he answered , it was with a sincerity that was well calculated to carry conviction in its tones . 
Wilder gravely rejoined . 
Tell me , Mr Wilder , -LRB- you that are a seaman should know -RRB- , is it usual for the crew to sleep when a strange vessel is so nigh -- near even to touching , I might almost say ? '' 
Wilder made no reply . 
His eyes , which had been fastened steadily , though respectfully , on those of the speaker , fell to the deck , and he appeared to await whatever her further pleasure might choose to utter . 
I would I knew the motive of your singular assertions , Mr Wilder ? '' 
But here she turned quickly , and perhaps a little impatiently , to Wilder , and , while her cheeks glowed , she demanded , with a smile that might have brought even a more obdurate man to his confession , -- `` Is it forbidden to be more explicit ? '' 
The eyes , however , of Wilder had fastened themselves on the other ship . 
The first glance told Wilder that the latter was Fid , who was so far recovered from his debauch as to tread the giddy height with as much , if not greater , steadiness than he would have rolled along the ground , had his duty called him to terra firma . 
As the two moved past the silent Wilder , each dropped a distant salute , and then our adventurer found himself the sole occupant of the quarter-deck . 
demanded Wilder . 
`` He is well paid who gets the bite he baits for , '' returned the other , turning his head , and exhibiting the cunning eye and chuckling countenance of old Bob Bunt , as Wilder 's recent and treacherous confederate had announced his name to be . 
returned the pretended fisherman , leisurely drawing in a line , which the quick eye of Wilder saw , though abundantly provided with lead at the end , was destitute of the equally material implement -- the hook ; `` What part , Captain ! 
exclaimed Wilder , a little blinded by resentment , `` even your years shall no longer protect you from punishment . 
`` The skiff was too light for you , Mr Nighthead , '' Wilder calmly observed , as the other approached , having never moved , himself , from the place where he had been standing during the whole proceeding . 
Wilder turned , in the mean time , to Mrs Wyllys , who had been an auditor of his short conversation with the mate . 
`` You perceive , Madam , '' he said , `` that our voyage does not commence without its omens . '' 
cried Wilder , with a look that seemed to tell his companions , If you are so stout of heart , the opportunity to show your resolution shall not be wanting . 
Wilder had now undertaken himself the task of running his vessel between the islands of Connannicut and Rhode . 
Fortunately for the heavy responsibility he had assumed , the channel was not difficult , and the wind had veered so far to the east as to give him a favourable opportunity , after making a short stretch to windward , of laying through in a single reach . 
But this stretch would bring him under the necessity of passing very near the `` Rover , '' or of losing no small portion of his ` vantage ground . 
He did not hesitate . 
When the vessel was as nigh the weather shore as his busy lead told him was prudent , the ship was tacked , and her head laid directly towards the still motionless and seemingly unobservant slaver . 
The wind was steady , and her crew held her in hand , as a skilful rider governs the action of a fiery and mettled steed . 
To the seamen , the strange ship began to be the subject of wonder ; the governess , and her ward , scarce knew the reasons of their emotions ; while Wilder was but too well instructed in the nature of the hazard that all but himself were running . 
`` Pass the slaver 's lee-beam , sir , '' said Wilder to him , with a gesture of authority ; and then the young Captain went himself to lean on the weather-rail , like every other idler on board , to examine the object they were so fast approaching . 
The passage was of course rapid ; and , as the two vessels , for an instant , lay with heads and sterns nearly equal , Wilder thought it was to be made without the slightest notice from the imaginary slaver . 
But he was mistaken . 
The instant the fair hair was blowing about the countenance of this individual , Wilder recognized the quick , keen eye and features of the Rover . 
shouted the latter , at the top of his voice . 
Wyllys leaned her head on her hand for an instant , and then turned to seek the person of Wilder . 
When the land is leaving us , Mr Wilder will have the goodness to let us know . '' 
In order to effect this object , Wilder had every thing , that would draw , set to the utmost advantage . 
One hundred times , at least , however , did he turn his head , to steal a look at the vessel he had left behind . 
Just before the day shut in , and ere the islands were entirely sunk into the waves , Wilder ascended to an upper yard , bearing in his hand a glass . 
His gaze , towards the haven he had left , was long , anxious , and abstracted . 
But his descent was distinguished by a more quiet eye , and a calmer mien . 
A smile , like that of success , played about his lips ; and he gave his orders clearly , in a cheerful , encouraging voice . 
Wilder had joined his passengers , cheerful , and with that air of enjoyment which every officer of the sea is more or less wont to exhibit , when he has disengaged his vessel from the dangers of the land , and has fairly launched her on the trackless and fathomless abyss of the ocean . 
The beautiful mouth of Gertrude often struggled to conceal the smiles which played around her lips and dimpled her cheeks , like a soft air ruffling the surface of some limpid spring ; and once or twice , when the humour of Wilder came unexpectedly across her youthful fancy , she was compelled to yield to the impulses of an irresistible merriment . 
He who has not felt this truth , would do well to distrust his own companionable qualities . 
It would seem that man , when he finds himself in the solitude of the ocean , feels the deepest how great is his dependancy on others for happiness . 
Then it is that he yields to sentiments with which he trifled , in the wantonness of abundance , and is glad to seek relief in the sympathies of his kind . 
Perhaps a metaphysical , and a too literal , reasoner might add , that , as in such situations each one is conscious the condition and fortunes of his neighbour are the mere indexes of his own , they acquire value in his eyes from their affinity to himself . 
`` It is the middle watch , '' said Wilder , smiling as he observed that Gertrude started at the strange sounds , and sat listening , like a timid doe that catches the note of the hunter 's horn . 
`` You are young , Mr Wilder , for a trust like this you bear . '' 
`` We are all of us dependant on the testimony of others , '' said Wilder , smiling , `` for the account of that important event . 
he answered , with strong emphasis . 
Then , after shading his face an instant with his hands , he arose , and added , with a melancholy smile : `` And now to my last duty for the twentyfour hours . 
The governess took his offered arm , and , with his aid , ascended the stairs of the cabin in silence , each seemingly finding sufficient employment in meditation . 
But Wilder looked upon the scene as one fastens his gaze on a placid sky . 
To him the view possessed neither novelty , nor dread , nor charm . 
Not so , however , with his more youthful and slightly enthusiastic companion . 
You must find deep enjoyment in these scenes , Mr Wilder ; you , who have them always at command . '' 
exclaimed Wilder , as though he had just become conscious of her presence . 
But Wilder , so far from deeming it necessary to lend his attention to so ordinary a service , the moment after he had spoken , seemed perfectly unconscious that the mandate had issued from his mouth . 
He stood on the precise spot where the view of the ocean and the heavens had first caught his eye , and his gaze still continued fastened on the aspect of the two elements . 
His look was always in the direction of the wind , which , though far from a gale , often fell upon the sails of the ship in heavy and sullen puffs . 
After a long and anxious examination , the young mariner muttered his thoughts to himself , and commenced pacing the deck with rapid footsteps . 
Still he would make sudden and short pauses , and again rivet his gaze on the point of the compass whence the blasts came sweeping across the waste of waters ; as though he distrusted the weather , and would fain cause his keen glance to penetrate the gloom of night , in order to relieve some painful doubts . 
At length his step became arrested , in one of those quick turns that he made at each end of his narrow walk . 
Wilder slowly raised his arm , and was about to point with his finger , when the limb suddenly fell again . 
he muttered , turning quickly on his heel , and pacing the deck still more rapidly than ever . 
His companions watched the extraordinary , and apparently unconscious , movements of the young Commander , with amazement , and not without a little secret dismay . 
`` We see nothing , '' said Gertrude , when Wilder again stopped in his walk , and once more gazed , as before , on the seeming void . 
he answered , directing their eyes with his finger : `` Is there nothing there ? '' 
`` Ay , he is right , '' muttered Wilder ; `` and yet 't is a strange thing that a ship should be just there . '' 
Wilder laughed faintly , and bowed , as if he recollected himself . 
Still he entered into no explanation ; but again turned his gaze on the quarter of the ocean where the strange sail was said to be . 
The females followed his example , but ever with the same want of success . 
Nothing was visible but the dim outline , not unaptly described by Wilder himself as resembling a spider 's web . 
`` Not so , '' said Wilder , shaking his head ; `` no vessel , from under the heights of Never-sink , could gain that offing with a wind like this ! '' 
`` That , indeed , may we yet hope , '' muttered Wilder , in a smothered voice . 
But the busy state of Wilder 's thoughts left her no immediate opportunity to pursue the subject . 
He soon summoned the officer of the watch to his councils , and they consulted together , apart , for many minutes . 
demanded Wilder , after they had , each in turn , made a closer examination of the faint object , by the aid of an excellent night-glass . 
interrupted Wilder . 
he replied , shaking his head , but meaning no more than that it was entirely out of the order of nautical propriety ; `` I see the philosophy of what you say , Captain Wilder ; and little do I know how to explain it . 
returned Wilder , with an air so vacant , as to prove that he rather communed with himself than attended to his companion . 
`` No , no , '' said Wilder , `` this can never be the Dutchman . '' 
`` It is no Dutchman , '' said Wilder , drawing a long breath , like a man a waking from a trance . 
was the first demand of Wilder . 
said Wilder , a little sternly , to the man who , in obedience to his order , had descended to the quarter-deck . 
gravely demanded Wilder . 
exclaimed Wilder , with a pleasure too evident to be concealed . 
`` True , '' returned his young Commander , in a tone of disappointment ; `` true , very true . 
`` Mr Earing , '' said Wilder , as the seaman reluctantly proceeded towards his place of rest , `` we will bring the ship upon the other tack , and get more easting , while the land is so far from us . 
Little delay occurred , and not a word was uttered , but the short , authoritative mandates which Wilder saw fit to deliver from his own lips . 
No longer pressed up against the wind , the ship , obedient to her helm , gracefully began to incline her head from the waves , and to bring the wind abeam . 
Then , instead of breasting and mounting the endless hillocks , like a being that toiled heavily along its path , she fell into the trough of the sea , from which she issued like a courser , who , having conquered an ascent , shoots along the track with redoubled velocity . 
For an instant the wind appeared to have lulled , though the wide ridge of foam , which rolled along on each side the vessel 's bows , sufficiently proclaimed that she was skimming lightly before it . 
In another moment , the tall spars began to incline again to the west , and the vessel came swooping up to the wind , until her plunges and shocks against the seas were renewed as violently as before . 
When every yard and sheet were properly trimmed to meet the new position of the vessel , Wilder turned anxiously to get a glimpse of the stranger . 
A minute was lost in ascertaining the precise spot where he ought to appear ; for , in such a chaos of water , and with no guide but the judgment , the eye was apt to deceive itself , by referring to the nearer and more familiar objects by which the spectator was surrounded . 
cried Wilder . 
`` A lively and quick-working vessel might do it , '' said Wilder ; `` especially if strong handed . '' 
`` Mr Earing , '' interrupted Wilder , `` we will pack upon the ` Caroline , ' and try our sailing with this taunting stranger . 
The slow-minded mate would have remonstrated against the order , had he dared ; but there was that , in the calm , subdued , but deep tones of his young Commander , which admonished him of the hazard . 
He was not wrong , however , in considering the duty he was now to perform as one not without some risk . 
The ship was already moving under quite as much canvas as he deemed it prudent to show at such an hour , and with so many threatening symptoms of heavier weather hanging about the horizon . 
Wilder long watched the ship , with an excited mien , but with all the intelligence of a seaman . 
Wilder made no reply . 
He had either humoured the superstitious apprehension of his mate enough , or his mind was too intent on its principal object , to dwell longer on a foreign subject . 
The impunity with which the `` Caroline '' bore such a press of canvas , under the circumstances in which she was placed , added to their kindling admiration ; and , ere Wilder had determined , in his own mind , on the powers of his ship , in comparison with those of the vessel that so strangely hung in the horizon , he was himself becoming the subject of unnatural and revolting suspicions to his own crew . 
The qualities of his mind may be appreciated by the few reflections he saw fit to make on the escape of the old mariner whom Wilder had intended to visit with a portion of his indignation . 
This individual , as he was but one degree removed from the common men in situation , so was he every way qualified to maintain that association with the crew which was , in some measure , necessary between them . 
His influence among them was commensurate to his opportunities of intercourse , and his sentiments were very generally received with a portion of that deference which is thought to be due to the opinions of an oracle . 
After the ship had been worn , and during the time that Wilder , with a view to lose sight of his unwelcome neighbour , was endeavouring to urge her through the seas in the manner already described , this stubborn and mystified tar remained in the waist of the vessel , surrounded by a few of the older and more experienced seamen , holding converse on the remarkable appearance of the phantom to leeward , and of the extraordinary manner in which their unknown officer saw fit to attest the enduring qualities of their own vessel . 
`` And yet the lad holds the ship in hand , '' said the oldest of all the seamen , who kept his gaze fastened on the proceedings of Wilder ; `` he is driving her through it in a mad manner , I will allow ; but yet , so far , he has not parted a yarn . '' 
said another , whose manner sufficiently announced the dependance he himself placed on the capacity of the second mate . 
A general murmur announced that most , if not all , of his hearers accorded in his opinion . 
Mr Bale , no doubt , thought he was doing the clever thing for the owners , when he shipped this Mr Wilder ; but then , perhaps , he did not know that the vessel was sold to -- It becomes a plain-going seaman to have a respect for all he sails under ; so I will not , unnecessarily , name the person who , I believe , has got , whether he came by it in a fair purchase or not , no small right in this vessel . '' 
cried the calm , authoritative tones of Wilder . 
`` Get the fore-top-gallant-sail on the ship , sir , '' continued Wilder , when the customary reply let him know that he had been heard . 
There was certainly enough , in the desperate manner with which Wilder pressed the canvas on the vessel , to excite distrust , either of his intentions or judgment , in the opinions of men less influenced by superstition than those it was now his lot to command . 
It had long been apparent to Earing , and his more ignorant , and consequently more obstinate , brother officer , that their young superior had the same desire to escape from the spectral-looking ship , which so strangely followed their movements , as they had themselves . 
They only differed in the mode ; but this difference was so very material , that the two mates consulted together apart , and then Earing , something stimulated by the hardy opinions of his coadjutor , approached his Commander , with the determination of delivering the results of their united judgments , with that sort of directness which he thought the occasion now demanded . 
But there was that in the steady eye and imposing mien of Wilder , that caused him to touch on the dangerous subject with a discretion and circumlocution that were a little remarkable for the individual . 
Wilder bent another of his frequent glances on the misty object in the horizon , and then turned his frowning eye towards the point whence the wind proceeded , as if he would defy its heaviest blasts ; he , however , made no answer . 
`` We have ever found the crew discontented at the pumps , sir , '' resumed the other , after a pause sufficient for the reply he in vain expected ; `` I need not tell an officer , who knows his duty so well , that seamen rarely love their pumps . '' 
Earing recoiled a step , with a submissive manner , and affected to be lost in consulting the driving masses of the clouds ; then , summoning his resolution , he attempted to renew the attack in a different quarter . 
`` Is it your deliberate opinion , Captain Wilder , '' he said , using the title to which the claim of our adventurer might well be questioned , with a view to propitiate him ; `` is it then your deliberate opinion , that the ` Royal Caroline ' can , by any human means , be made to drop yonder vessel ? '' 
`` I fear not , '' returned the young man , drawing a breath so long , that all his secret concern seemed struggling in his breast for utterance . 
`` Take you the glass , Earing , and tell me under what canvas the stranger holds his way , and what may be his distance , '' said Wilder , thoughtfully , and without appearing to advert at all to what the other had just observed . 
said Wilder ; `` you have not yet spoken of her distance . '' 
`` I have seen her sailed in all weathers , Captain Wilder , but '' -- His mouth was suddenly closed . 
Even Wilder watched the shock with breathless anxiety , conscious , for the moment , that he had exceeded the bounds of sound discretion in urging his ship so powerfully against such a mass of water . 
The sea broke a few fathoms from the bows of the `` Caroline , '' and sent its surge in a flood of foam upon her decks . 
For half a minute , the forward part of the vessel disappeared , as though , unable to mount the swell , it were striving to go through it , and then she heavily emerged , gemmed with a million of the scintillating insects of the ocean . 
The ship had stopped , trembling in every joint , throughout her massive and powerful frame , like some affrighted courser ; and , when she resumed her course , it was with a moderation that appeared to warn those who governed her movements of their indiscretion . 
Earing faced his Commander in silence , perfectly conscious that nothing he could utter contained an argument like this . 
To all this Wilder turned a deaf or an insensible ear . 
`` Mr Wilder , '' returned the governess , `` I have seen much of this terrible element on which you live . 
`` And I am willing , Mr Wilder , to abandon the ship entirely , '' calmly resumed the governess . 
Wilder pointed to the dim object to leeward ; and , handing him the glass , desired that he would take another view . 
Each looked , in his turn , long and closely . 
`` I hope there is no offence for an elderly seaman , like myself , Captain Wilder , in venturing an opinion on the weather , '' he said . 
`` A couple of points fall off , and a pull upon your weather braces , '' said Wilder , with startling quickness . 
But to all these symptoms of disaffection Wilder remained , as before , utterly indifferent . 
If he heard them at all , he either disdained to yield them any notice , or , guided by a temporizing policy , he chose to appear unconscious of their import . 
In the mean time , the vessel , like a bird whose wing had wearied with struggling against the tempest , and which inclines from the gale to dart along an easier course , glided swiftly away , quartering the crests of the waves , or sinking gracefully into their troughs , as she yielded to the force of a wind that was now made to be favourable . 
The sea rolled on , in a direction that was no longer adverse to her course ; and , as she receded from the breeze , the quantity of sail she had spread was no longer found trying to her powers of endurance . 
Still she had , in the opinion of all her crew , quite enough canvas exposed to a night of such a portentous aspect . 
But not so , in the judgment of the stranger who was charged with the guidance of her destinies . 
Urged by these new impulses , the ship went careering over the waves ; leaving a train of foam , in her track , that rivalled , in its volume and brightness , the tumbling summit of the largest swell . 
When sail after sail had been set , until even Wilder was obliged to confess to himself that the `` Royal Caroline , '' staunch as she was , would bear no more , our adventurer began to pace the deck again , and to cast his eyes about him , in order to watch the fruits of his new experiment . 
Still the unerring compass told the watchful mariner , that she continued to maintain the same relative position as when first seen . 
No effort , on the part of Wilder , could apparently alter her bearing an inch . 
Another hour soon passed away , during which , as the log told him , the `` Caroline '' had rolled through more than three leagues of water , and still there lay the stranger in the west , as though it were merely a lessened shadow of herself , cast by the `` Caroline '' upon the distant and dusky clouds . 
Perhaps the excited mind of the worthy mate was too much disposed to believe in the miraculous powers possessed by his unaccountable neighbour , to admit of the full exercise of his experienced faculties on the occasion ; but even Wilder , who vexed his sight , in often-repeated examinations , was obliged to confess to himself , that the stranger seemed to glide , across the waste of waters , more like a body floating in the air , than a ship resorting to the ordinary expedients of mariners . 
To her uninstructed eye , all appeared the same on the wilderness of the ocean ; Wilder having it in his power to alter the direction of his vessel as often as he pleased , without his fairer and more youthful passenger being any the wiser for the same . 
But they undervalued the keen-eyed vigilance of Wilder . 
He had certainly driven the Bristol trader through the water at a rate she had never been known to have gone before ; but , thus far , the facts themselves attested in his favour , since no injury was the consequence of what they deemed his temerity . 
A dozen seamen called to each other , from different parts of the vessel , each striving to lift his voice above the roaring ocean ; and there was every appearance of a general and inextricable confusion ; but the same authority which had aroused them , thus unexpectedly , into activity , produced order , from their ill-directed though vigorous efforts . 
Wilder had spoken , to awaken the drowsy , and to excite the torpid . 
The instant he found each man on the alert , he resumed his orders , with a calmness that gave a direction to the powers of all , but still with an energy that he well knew was called for by the occasion . 
The enormous sheets of duck , which had looked like so many light clouds in the murky and threatening heavens , were soon seen fluttering wildly , as they descended from their high places ; and , in a few minutes , the ship was reduced to the action of her more secure and heavier canvas . 
Then , Wilder made a swift turn or two on the quarter-deck , never ceasing to bend his quick glances from one quarter of the heavens to another ; from the black and lulling water on which his vessel was rolling , to the sails ; and from his silent and profoundly expectant crew , to the dim lines of spars that were waving above his head , like so many pencils tracing their curvilinear and wanton images over the murky volumes of the superincumbent clouds . 
he said , in a voice which was heard by every man on deck , though his words were apparently spoken but little above his breath . 
resumed Wilder , after a thoughtful , brief interval , with the same eloquent calmness of manner . 
Then , taking another glance at the threatening horizon , he added , with emphasis , `` Furl them -- furl them both : Away aloft , and hand your courses , '' he continued , in a shout ; `` roll them up , cheerily ; in with them , boys , cheerily ; in ! '' 
`` It is an awful night , Captain Wilder ! '' 
`` Gentlemen , '' said Wilder , with a peculiar and perhaps an ironical emphasis on the word , `` what is it you would have ? 
Both were secretly goaded by mysterious and superstitious apprehensions , that were powerfully aided by the more real and intelligible aspect of the night ; but neither had so far forgotten his manhood , and his professional pride , as to lay bare the full extent of his own weakness , at a moment when he was liable to be called upon for the exhibition of qualities of a far more positive and determined character . 
`` Such is your taste , Mr Nighthead , '' said Wilder , coldly ; `` mine may , by some accident , be very different . '' 
Ah , Captain Wilder , yonder is an awful sight for the morning watch ! 
`` Frenchman , Don , or Devil , yonder he comes '' cried Wilder . 
Then , turning towards the silent and attentive crew , he shouted , in a voice that was appalling by its vehemence and warning , `` Let run the after halyards ! 
As the gust approached , Wilder had seized the slight opportunity , afforded by the changeful puffs of air , to get the ship as much as possible before the wind ; but the sluggish movement of the vessel met neither the wishes of his own impatience nor the exigencies of the moment . 
shouted Wilder , amid the roar of the gust . 
said Wilder , seizing the bewildered Earing by the arm , as the latter rushed madly up the steep of the deck ; `` it is our duty to be calm : Bring hither an axe . '' 
`` Then cut , '' Wilder clearly and calmly added . 
instantly called Wilder to the observant seaman at the wheel . 
shouted Earing from the main rigging , whither he had leaped , like a tiger who had bounded on his prey . 
Wilder instantly saw the necessity of getting rid of this sail , and he also saw the utter impossibility of securing it . 
Calling Earing to his side , he pointed out the danger , and gave the necessary order . 
`` Yon spar can not stand such shocks much longer , '' he concluded ; `` and , should it go over the bows , some fatal blow might be given to the ship at the rate she is moving . 
`` You may be right , '' returned Wilder , with a sudden conviction of the truth of what the other had said : `` Stay you then here ; and , if any thing befal me , try to get the vessel into port as far north as the Capes of Virginia , at least ; -- on no account attempt Hatteras , in the present condition of '' -- `` What would you do , Captain Wilder ? '' 
Wilder made no resistance , but resumed his watchful and reflecting attitude , with the simplicity of one who had been too long trained to the discharge of certain obligations himself , to manifest surprise that another should acknowledge their imperative character . 
`` Lie down out of that fore-rigging , '' shouted Wilder , through a deck-trumpet ; `` lie down ; all , but the mate , lie down ! '' 
His words were borne past the inattentive ears of the excited and mortified followers of Earing , but they failed of their effect . 
At this critical instant , while the seamen aloft were still gazing in the direction in which the little cloud of canvas had disappeared , a lanyard of the lower rigging parted with a crack that even reached the ears of Wilder . 
Wilder sprang to the side of the vessel , and distinctly beheld the victims , who still clung to their frail support . 
He even saw Earing waving his hand , in adieu , with a seaman 's heart , and like a man who not only felt how desperate was his situation , but one who knew how to meet his fate with resignation . 
shouted Wilder , without pausing to think of the impossibility of one 's swimming , or of effecting the least good , in so violent a tornado . 
murmured Wilder to himself ; `` human skill and human efforts could not save them ! '' 
muttered Wilder , involuntarily repeating his words . 
he sternly demanded of the watchful seaman who still clung to the wheel of the `` Caroline . '' 
The same laconic answer as before was given ; and , for a few moments , the Bristol trader was seen diverging a little from the line in which the other approached ; but a second glance assured Wilder that the attempt was useless . 
exclaimed Wilder ; `` too many see us there already ! '' 
Wilder held his breath , for the moment the stranger drew nighest , in the very excess of suspense ; but , as he saw no signal of recognition , no human form , nor any intention to arrest , if possible , the furious career of the other , a smile of exultation gleamed across his countenance , and his lips moved rapidly , as though he found pleasure in being abandoned to his distress . 
The stranger drove by , like a dark vision ; and , ere another minute , her form was beginning to grow less distinct , in a thickening body of the spray to leeward . 
exclaimed Wilder , when he drew his breath , after the fearful suspense of the few last moments . 
Wilder , however , paid no attention to the movements of his subordinate , but continued pacing the deck for hours ; now casting his eyes at the heavens , or now sending frequent and anxious glances around the limited horizon , while the `` Royal Caroline '' still continued drifting before the wind , a shorn and naked wreck . 
The weight of the tempest had been felt at that hapless moment when Earing and his unfortunate companions were precipitated from their giddy elevation into the sea . 
Then followed two hours of anxious watchfulness on the part of Wilder , during which the whole of his professional knowledge was needed , in order to keep the despoiled hull of the Bristol trader from becoming a prey to the greedy waters . 
`` Sound the pumps , '' said Wilder , observing that the crew were appearing from the different places in which they had bestowed their cares and their persons together , during the later hours of the night . 
he added sternly , observing that no one moved to obey his order . 
Nighthead , to whom Wilder had now addressed himself , regarded his Commander with an oblique and sullen eye , and then exchanged singularly intelligent glances with his comrades , before he saw fit to make the smallest motion towards compliance . 
But there was that , in the authoritative mien of his superior , which finally induced him to comply . 
`` If witchcraft can clear the hold of a ship that is already half full of water , '' said Nighthead , casting another sullen glance towards the attentive Wilder , `` the sooner it is done the better ; for the whole cunning of something more than a bungler in the same will be needed , in order to make the pumps of the ` Royal Caroline ' suck ! '' 
demanded his superior , with a quickness of utterance which sufficiently proclaimed how important he deemed the intelligence . 
demanded Wilder , who , for the first time , began to note the mutinous looks assumed by his mate , no less than the threatening manner in which he was seconded by the crew . 
The quick eye of Wilder , who had now taken the alarm , was not slow in detecting this reluctance ; and he repeated the order more sternly , calling to two of the seamen , by name , to set the example of obedience . 
said Wilder , approaching Nighthead with a firm step , and an eye too proud to quail before the plainest symptoms of insubordination . 
Wilder once more bade him , in a calm and authoritative tone , lay his own hands to the brake . 
A shriek from the quarter-deck arrested their efforts , just as a dozen hands were laid violently upon the person of Wilder , and , for the moment , occasioned a truce . 
Wilder was released ; and all eyes turned , by a common impulse , in the direction of the sound . 
They had risen and mounted to the deck together , and were still in the first burst of their wonder at the desolation which met their gaze , when the long-meditated attack on Wilder was made . 
The eye of Wilder was glowing , and his brow was dark as those heavens from which they had just so happily escaped , as he answered , menacing his assailants with an arm , -- `` It means mutiny , Madam ; rascally , cowardly mutiny ! '' 
-- Can youexplain this , Mr Wilder ? '' 
`` You can not say , at least , you had no warning of danger , '' returned Wilder , smiling bitterly . 
This laboured and characteristic profession of faith in the mate , though sufficiently intelligible to Wilder , was still a perfect enigma to his female listeners . 
During the few moments of suspense that succeeded , Wilder stood silent and composed , a smile of something like scorn struggling about his lip , and maintaining the air rather of one who had power to decide on the fortunes of others , than of a man whose own fate was most probably at that very moment in discussion . 
`` From all which I am to infer that it is your intention , '' said Wilder , calmly , `` to abandon the wreck , and your duty ? '' 
The half-awed but still resentful mate returned a look in which fear and triumph struggled for the mastery , as he answered , -- `` You , who know how to sail a ship without a crew , can never want a boat ! 
Wilder appeared to be superior to any reply . 
He began to pace the deck , thoughtful , it is true , but still composed , and entirely self-possessed . 
Remonstrances , they feared , would be useless ; for the fierce and malignant looks which were cast , from time to time , at Wilder , as the labour proceeded , proclaimed the danger of awakening such obstinate and ignorant minds into renewed acts of violence . 
`` Stop , dearest Madam , '' said Wilder , respectfully arresting her movement with his hand . 
demanded Wilder . 
`` None , '' he answered , with a melancholy smile . 
Both Mrs Wyllys and Gertrude stood regarding his kindling eye , but otherwise placid countenance , with looks whose concern amounted to horror . 
The former read , in the very composure of his mien , the unalterable character of his resolution ; and the latter , shuddering as the prospect of the cruel fate which awaited him crowded on her mind , felt a glow about her own youthful heart that almost tempted her to believe his self-devotion commendable . 
But the governess saw new reasons for apprehension in the determination of Wilder . 
It was near a minute before Wilder made any answer . 
He again turned his look around the bright and broad horizon , and he appeared to study the heavens , in the direction of the distant Continent , with infinite care . 
Each of the party gazed , until sight grew dim , at the receding object ; and it was only when his organs refused to convey the tiny image to his brain , that Wilder himself shook off the impression of the sort of trance into which he had fallen . 
His look became bent on his companions , and he pressed his hand upon his forehead , as though his brain were bewildered by the deep responsibility he had assumed in advising them to remain . 
he exclaimed , breathing long and heavily , like one whose respiration had been unnaturally suspended . 
echoed the governess , turning an eye , that was contracting with the intensity of her care , on the marble-like and motionless form of her pupil . 
The look that Wilder bestowed , on the same silent but lovely statue , was scarcely less expressive than the gaze of her who had nurtured the infancy of the Southern Heiress , in innocence and love . 
His brow grew thoughtful , and his lips became compressed , while all the resources of his fertile imagination and long experience gathered in his mind , in engrossing , intense reflection . 
demanded the governess , who was watching the change of his working countenance , with an attention that never swerved . 
The gloom passed away from his swarthy features , and the smile that lighted them was like the radiance of the sun , as it breaks through the blackest vapours of the drifting gust . 
he said with firmness ; `` our case is far from desperate . '' 
cried the grateful governess , giving vent to her long-suppressed agony in a flood of tears . 
`` And now , my dearest Madam , '' said Gertrude , leaving the arms of her governess , `` let us trust to the skill of Mr Wilder ; he has foreseen and foretold this danger ; equally well may he predict our safety . '' 
`` No mortal could have foreseen this awful calamity ; and least of all , foreseeing it , would he have sought to incur its danger ! 
Mr Wilder , I will not annoy you with requests for explanations that might now be useless , but you will not refuse to communicate your grounds of hope . '' 
Wilder hastened to relieve a curiosity that he well knew must be as painful as it was natural . 
Into this little ark Wilder proposed to convey such articles of comfort and necessity as he might hastily collect from the abandoned vessel ; and then , entering it with his companions , to await the critical instant when the wreck should sink from beneath them . 
exclaimed Mrs Wyllys , when his short explanation was ended , her cheek again blanching with disappointment . 
Wilder shook his head in an unequivocal negative . 
The fact proved their case to be more alarming than even Wilder had been led to expect . 
As the young mariner gazed about him with an understanding eye , he cursed , in the bitterness of his heart , the ignorance and superstition that had caused the desertion of the remainder of the crew . 
There existed , in reality , no evil that exertion and skill could not have remedied ; but , deprived of all aid , he at once saw the folly of even attempting to procrastinate a catastrophe that was now unavoidable . 
Returning with a heavy heart to the deck , he immediately set about those dispositions which were necessary to afford them the smallest chance of escape . 
While his companions deadened the sense of apprehension by their light but equally necessary employment , Wilder stepped the two masts of the boat , and properly disposed of the sails , and those other implements that might be useful in the event of success . 
At the expiration of that period , his labour had ceased . 
He then cut the gripes that had kept the launch in its place when the ship was in motion , leaving it standing upright on its wooden beds , but in no other manner connected with the hull , which , by this time , had settled so low as to create the apprehension , that , at any moment , it might sink from beneath them . 
After this measure of precaution was taken , the females were summoned to the boat , lest the crisis might be nearer than he supposed ; for he well knew that a foundering ship was , like a tottering wall , liable at any moment to yield to the impulse of the downward pressure . 
He then commenced the scarcely less necessary operation of selection among the chaos of articles with which the ill-directed zeal of his companions had so cumbered the boat , that there was hardly room left in which they might dispose of their more precious persons . 
Notwithstanding the often repeated and vociferous remonstrances of the negress , boxes , trunks , and packages flew from either side of the launch , as though Wilder had no consideration for the comfort and care of that fair being in whose behalf Cassandra , unheeded , like her ancient namesake of Troy , lifted her voice so often in the tones of remonstrance . 
Then , and not till then , did Wilder relax in his exertions . 
He had arranged his sails , ready to be hoisted in an instant ; he had carefully examined that no straggling rope connected the boat to the wreck , to draw them under with the foundering mass ; and he had assured himself that food , water , compass , and the imperfect instruments that were then in use to ascertain the position of a ship , were all carefully disposed of in their several places , and ready to his hand . 
When all was in this state of preparation , he disposed of himself in the stern of the boat , and endeavoured , by the composure of his manner , to inspire his less resolute companions with a portion of his own firmness . 
It appeared , to the alarmed and feverish imagination of Gertrude , that the brine was giving up all its monsters ; and , notwithstanding the calm assurances of Wilder , that these accustomed sounds were rather the harbingers of peace than signs of any new danger , they filled her mind with images of the secret recesses over which they seemed suspended by a thread , and painted them replete with the disgusting inhabitants of the caverns of the great deep . 
`` See , '' said Wilder , as the luminary lifted its pale and melancholy orb out of the bed of the ocean ; `` we shall have light for our hazardous launch ! '' 
said Wilder , pausing to listen to the hollow and threatening sounds which issued from the depths of the vessel , as the water broke through her divisions , in passing from side to side , and which sounded like the groaning of some heavy monster in the last agony of nature . 
His companions saw the change ; but , not for the empire of the world , could either of them have uttered a syllable . 
cried Wilder , breathless with his eagerness to speak . 
His words were smothered by the rushing and gurgling of waters . 
The vessel made a plunge like a dying whale ; and , raising its stern high into the air , glided into the depths of the sea , like the leviathan seeking his secret places . 
said Wilder , who had stood , amid the violence of the struggle , with his person firmly braced against a mast , steadily watching the manner of their escape . 
Wilder had , however , anticipated these feelings ; and , even before Mrs Wyllys and Gertrude had recovered their recollections , he was occupied , aided by the ready hands of the terrified but loquacious Cassandra , in arranging the contents of the boat in such a manner as would enable her to move through the element with the least possible resistance . 
Wilder turned his head to regard the fair speaker , whose pale and placid countenance , as the moon silvered her fine features , expressed any thing but the courage to endure the hardships he so well knew she was liable to encounter , before they might hope to gain the Continent . 
After musing a moment , he lifted his open hand towards the south-west , and held its palm some little time to the air of the night . 
`` Any thing is better than idleness , for people in our condition , '' he said . 
He then spread his two lug-sails ; and , trimming aft the sheets , placed himself at the helm , like one who expected his services there might be shortly needed . 
The result did not disappoint his expectations . 
Ere long , the light canvas of the boat began to flutter ; and then , as he brought the bows in the proper direction , the little vessel commenced moving slowly along its blind and watery path . 
Wilder urged the latter reason as a motive for the females to seek their rest beneath a little canopy of tarpaulings , which his foresight had also provided , and on mattresses he had brought from the ship . 
The wind had freshened to a smart breeze ; and , by the calculations of Wilder , he had already moved across many leagues of ocean , directly in a line for the eastern end of that long and narrow isle that separates the waters which wash the shores of Connecticut from those of the open sea . 
If any doubt had existed in the mind of Wilder as to the accuracy of his prognostics , it would have been solved about the commencement of the morning watch . 
well do I know you , '' muttered Wilder , as the first puff of this unwelcome wind struck his sails , and forced the little boat to bend to its power in passing ; `` well do I know you , with your fresh-water flavour and your smell of the land ! 
`` Sleep , Lady , sleep , '' he answered , as though he liked not , at such a moment , to be disturbed by even her soft and silvery voice . 
He pointed to the signs so well comprehended by himself , but continued silent . 
In the mean time , Wilder , again left to himself , began to consult his compass and the direction of the wind . 
Perceiving that he might approach nearer to the continent of America by changing the position of the boat , he wore round , and brought its head as nigh up to the south-west as the wind would permit . 
At each minute , the power of the breeze was increasing , until it soon freshened to a degree that compelled him to furl his after-sail . 
Wilder noted all these changes of the hour with a closeness that proved how critical he deemed their case . 
He seemed rather to consult the signs of the heavens than to regard the tossings and rushings of the water , which dashed against the side of his little vessel in a manner that , to the eyes of his companions , often appeared to threaten their total destruction . 
To the latter he was too much accustomed , to anticipate the true moment of alarm , though to less instructed senses it might already seem so dangerous . 
It was to him as is the thunder , when compared to the lightning , in the mind of the philosopher ; or rather he knew , that , if harm might come from the one on which he floated , its ability to injure must first be called into action by the power of the sister element . 
cried Wilder , springing upon a thwart , to catch a glimpse of a dark object that was driving on the glittering crest of a wave , within a hundred fect of the spot where the launch itself was struggling through the brine . 
The deep breathing of the wind swept by them , but no human sound responded to his shout . 
`` It was a boat , or my sight is not true as usual , '' returned Wilder , still keeping his stand , to watch the moment when he might catch another view . 
His wish was quickly realized . 
He had trusted the helm , for the moment , to the hands of Cassandra , who suffered the launch to vary a little from its course . 
The words were still on his lips , when the same black object came sweeping down the wave to windward , and a pinnace , bottom upwards , washed past them in the trough . 
Wilder instinctively caught the helm , as he bent his face in the direction whence the revolting eye of Cassandra had been turned . 
Not only Wilder , but Gertrude and Mrs Wyllys , had seen this startling spectacle so nigh them as to recognize the countenance of Nighthead , rendered still more stern and forbidding than ever , in the impression left by death . 
Wilder hoped that his companions had at least escaped the shock of recognizing the victim ; and the females themselves saw , in the hapless fortune of the mutineer , too much of their own probable though more protracted fate , to be able to give vent to the horror each felt so deeply , in words . 
Wilder at length observed , when he saw , by the pallid features and meaning eyes of his companions , it was in vain to affect reserve on the subject any longer . 
`` It was not within the ken of human knowledge to foresee this evil , '' continued the governess , fastening her eye on the countenance of Wilder , as though she would ask a question which conscience told her , at the same time , betrayed a portion of that very superstition which had hastened the fate of the rude being they had so lately passed . 
interrupted Gertrude , laying a hand , in her haste , on the arm of Wilder . 
The quick glance of Wilder had caught , however , a glimpse of the tracery against the heavens , as they descended . 
When the boat rose again , his look was properly directed , and he was enabled to be certain of the reality of the vessel . 
Wilder permitted the burst of her feelings with a species of bewildered care , but he neither spoke , nor in any other manner exhibited the smallest sympathy in her joy . 
`` Surely you are not grieved , Mr Wilder , '' added the wondering Gertrude , `` that the prospect of escape from these awful waves is at length so mercifully held forth to us ! '' 
exclaimed Gertrude , regarding the anxious Wilder with a wonder that her more cautious governess had the power to restrain . 
Wilder still stood upon the thwart , straining his eyes to read each sign that a seaman understands ; nor did he appear to find much pleasure in the task . 
`` We will drift ahead , '' he said , `` and , as the ship is lying on a different tack , we may yet gain a position that will leave us masters of our future movements . '' 
To this his companions knew not well how to make any objections . 
Mrs Wyllys was so much struck with the remarkable air of coldness with which he met this prospect of refuge against the forlorn condition in which he had just before confessed they were placed , that she was much more disposed to ponder on the cause , than to trouble him with questions which she had the discernment to see would be useless . 
Gertrude wondered , while she was disposed to think he might be right , though she knew not why . 
Provoked by his contumacious disregard of her remonstrances , the negress , forgetting all her respect , in blindness in behalf of her whom she not only loved , but had been taught to reverence , seized the boat-hook , and , unperceived by Wilder , fastened to it , with dexterity , one of the linen cloths that had been brought from the wreck , and exposed it , far above the diminished sail , for a couple of minutes , ere her device had caught the eyes of either of her companions . 
Then , indeed , she lowered the signal , in haste , before the dark and frowning look of Wilder . 
Wilder did not answer , but continued to profit , by each opportunity , to watch the movements of the stranger . 
She also called to Wilder , in a cheerful voice ; and the youth , who had long been standing , with a sort of jealous watchfulness , at the foot of the ladder which led from the quarter-deck , was at her side in an instant . 
You have often been on this coast before , Mr Wilder ? '' 
`` It is a folly of which we are often accused , '' rejoined Wilder , turning his eye on the speaker , and smiling in a manner that had lost every shade of reserve . 
`` I , at least , am free from the latter charge , '' exclaimed Wilder : `` To me a ship has always been a home . '' 
Is it usual , Mr Wilder , to admit an utter stranger , like yourself , to exercise authority in a vessel of war ? '' 
Without manifesting any embarrassment , however , at an absence of mind that was far too common to surprise her pupil , the governess resumed the discourse where she had herself dropped it , bending her look again on Wilder . 
`` That is a question he may better answer himself , '' said Wilder , glad to perceive that the subject of their discourse was approaching them , with the air of one who felt that none in that vessel might presume to dispute his right to mingle in any discourse that should please his fancy . 
Wilder evidently withdrew with reluctance ; and , had suspicion been active in the breasts of either of his companions , they would not have failed to note the glance of distrust with which he watched the manner that his Commander assumed in paying the salutations of the morning . 
He then turned towards Wilder , who had posted himself within ear-shot of what was passing , and continued , -- `` These ladies doubt our gaiety , Mr Wilder . 
Let the boatswain give the magical wind of his call , and pass the word ` To mischief ' among the people . '' 
Seated on the outer end of a lower yard , with as much steadiness as though he had been placed on an ottoman , he was intently occupied in examining into the condition of a captive , who had been run up at his feet , with an order from the waggish captain of the top , `` to turn him in for a jewel-block ; '' a name that appears to have been taken from the precious stones that are so often seen pendant from the ears of the other sex . 
cried Wilder sternly , from his stand on the distant poop . 
During this brief parlance , the good-man Homespun had safely arrived at the termination of his lofty flight . 
Here he was suitably received by Fid , who raised him to his side ; and , having placed him comfortably between the yard and the boom , he proceeded to secure him by a lashing that would give the tailor the proper disposition of his hands . 
demanded Wilder , in reply , when he perceived that the summons had fallen on the dull ears of his Commander , without recalling him to the recollection of what was in action . 
Here the parlance ceased ; for Wilder turned upon his heel , as though he were already disgusted with his part of the mummery . 
Arrived on the quarter-deck , in front of the position occupied by the officers , the principal personage saluted the groupe with a wave of his sceptre , and resumed the discourse as follows ; Wilder , from the continued abstraction of his Commander , finding himself under the necessity of maintaining one portion of the dialogue . 
`` Both have been at sea before , and have a right to pass without a question , '' resumed Wilder , a little hastily . 
Then , without paying the least attention to the angry glance that shot from the eye of Wilder , the sturdy representative of the God addressed himself directly to Gertrude . 
cried Wilder , dashing into the centre of the throng , and forcing them aside , with a haste that was possibly quickened by the recollection of the increased danger that would surround the unprotected females , should the bands of subordination be once fairly broken among so lawless and desperate a crew . 
Wilder had already beaten back the boldest of the seamen , and a space was cleared between the hostile parties , into which his assistants threw themselves , with the haste of men who knew how much was required at their hands . 
But two forms instantly sprang from the crowd , and threw themselves , like angry lions , between Wilder and his foes . 
I should like to see the man , among ye all , who can handle a heavy ship , in a narrow channel , as I have seen master Harry here handle the saucy '' -- `` Stand back , '' cried Wilder , forcing himself between his defenders and his foes . 
He started like one who was awakened suddenly from a light sleep , looking her full and intently in the eye . 
The look of faded marble , which had so long been seated on his features , vanished , as his eye passed quickly over the scene . 
The organs took in the whole nature of the action at the glance ; and , with the intelligence , the blood came rushing into every vein and fibre of his indignant face . 
Seizing a rope , which hung from the yard above his head , he swung his person off the poop , and fell lightly into the very centre of the crowd . 
Making a haughty and repelling motion with his arm , he spoke , and in a voice that , if any change could be noted , was even pitched on a key less high and threatening than common . 
he said , in a tone that strangely balanced between irony and scorn ; `` open , violent , and blood-seeking mutiny ! 
He paused ; and so general and absorbing was the spell produced by his presence and his mien , that , in all that crowd of fierce and excited spirits , there was not one so bold as to presume to brave his anger . 
Perceiving that no voice answered , no limb moved , nor even an eye among them all was bold enough to meet his own steady but glowing look , he continued , in the same deep and commanding tone , -- `` It is well : Reason has come of the latest ; but , happily for ye all , it has returned . 
-- The men receded a pace or two on every side of him . 
A terrified and cringing-looking being presented himself , having found his instrument by a sort of desperate instinct . 
Without hesitating a reluctant moment , the crowd dissolved , and each of the delinquents stole silently to his station ; the crew of the gun that had been turned inward managing to thrust it through its port again , with a dexterity that might have availed them greatly in time of combat . 
Deep and settled scorn , with a high reliance on himself , had , indeed , been exhibited in the proud curl of his lip , and in the swelling of his form , but not , for an instant , did it seem that he had suffered his ire to get the mastery of his reason . 
And , now that he had recalled his crew to their duty , he appeared no more elated with his success than he had been daunted by the storm which , a minute before , had threatened the utter dissolution of his authority . 
Instead of pursuing his further purpose in haste , he awaited the observance of the minutest form which etiquette , as well as use , had rendered customary on such occasions . 
`` Let the yards be slung ; the sheets and halyards stoppered , '' he said to the first lieutenant , who now displayed as intimate an acquaintance with the military as he had hitherto discovered with the nautical part of his profession ; `` Give the boarders their pikes and boarding-axes , sir ; we will now show these fellows that we dare to trust them with arms ! '' 
When he believed their minds brought within the proper limits , by the situation of restraint in which he had placed them , where they well knew that a word , or even a look , of offence would be met by an instant as well as an awful punishment , he walked apart with Wilder , of whom he demanded an explanation of what had passed . 
-- Mr Wilder , I fear you find our service a little irregular ; but a month of experience will put you on a level with us , and remove all danger of such another scene . '' 
you have been four-and-twenty years with Mr Wilder ? 
It is not so remarkable that you should set a value on his life . '' 
The Rover signed for him to retire ; and , turning where he stood , he found himself confronted by Wilder . 
One form alone stood erect , vigilant , and evidently maintaining a watchful eye over the whole : This was Wilder , whose turn to keep the deck had again arrived , in the regular division of the service of the officers . 
For two hours , not the slightest communication occurred between the Rover and his lieutenant . 
Both rather avoided than sought the intercourse ; for each had his own secret sources of serious meditation . 
At the end of that period of silence , the former stopped short in his walk , and looked long and steadily at the still motionless , figure on the deck beneath him . 
`` Mr Wilder , '' he at length said , `` the air is fresher on this poop , and more free from the impurities of the vessel : Will you ascend ? '' 
`` We had a troublesome morning , Wilder , '' the Rover resumed , unconsciously betraying the subject of his thoughts , and speaking always in a voice so guarded , that no ears , but his to whom he addressed himself , might embrace the sound : `` Were you ever so near that pretty precipice , a mutiny , before ? '' 
demanded the Rover , so quickly , as to give , in a slight degree , an air of distrust to his manner . 
Yes , Wilder , I love suspense ; it keeps the faculties from dying , and throws a man upon the better principles of his nature . 
`` By heavens , Wilder , you do me no more than justice . 
exclaimed Wilder , in surprise . 
The Rover did not answer ; but his companion saw , by the meaning smile which played about his lip , that he had been the dupe of an audacious and completely successful masquerade . 
Startled , perhaps at discovering how intricate were the toils into which he had rushed , and possibly vexed at being so thoroughly over-reached , he made several turns across the deck before he again spoke . 
`` I confess myself deceived , '' he at length said , `` and henceforth I shall submit to you as a master from whom one may learn , but who can never be surpassed . 
The Rover then cut short the dialogue , which was growing deeply interesting to his companion , and moved , with a light step , to the stern , over which he hung , for a few moments , by himself , like a man who found a pleasure in gazing at the dark surface of the sea . 
said the Rover , in a voice but little above a whisper , first laying his hand lightly on Wilder , as though he would tell him to attend . 
`` Ay , this is ever the way with your disorganizers , '' muttered the Rover , just loud enough to be heard by Wilder . 
`` Well , well ; no more of him , '' interrupted the Rover , a little impatiently , as if he liked not that his companion should look too deeply into the policy of his government , so early in his initiation . 
The fellow promised caution and amendment ; and then he was dismissed , with his reward in gold , and with an injunction to be secret in his return . 
So soon as the interview was ended , the Rover and Wilder resumed their walk ; the former having made sure that no evesdropper had been at hand to steal into his mysterious connexion with the spy . 
`` This is a perilous service in which we are embarked , '' observed his companion , by a sort of involuntary exposure of his secret thoughts . 
The Rover remained silent , making many turns across the deck , before he again opened his lips . 
When he spoke , it was in a voice so bland and gentle , that his words sounded more like the admonitory tones of a considerate friend , than like the language of a man who had long been associated with a set of beings so rude and unprincipled as those with whom he was now seen . 
`` You are still on the threshold of your life , Mr Wilder , '' he said , `` and it is all before you to choose the path on which you will go . 
Mr Wilder , your proposal would make me a villain ! 
`` Never , '' returned Wilder , in a tone of deep disappointment . 
You have seen my flags , Mr Wilder : -- but there was one wanting among them all ; ay , and one which , had it existed , it would have been my pride , my glory , to have upheld with my heart 's best blood ! '' 
Had that flag been abroad , Mr Wilder , no man would have ever heard the name of the Red Rover . '' 
`` I could be a subject of a King ; but to be the subject of a subject , Wilder , exceeds the bounds of my poor patience . 
I was educated , I might almost have said born , in one of his vessels ; and how often have I been made to feel , in bitterness , that an ocean separated my birth-place from the footstool of his throne ! 
one of his Commanders dared to couple the name of my country with an epithet I will not wound your ear by repeating ! '' 
The Rover faced his companion , and there was a ghastly smile on his speaking features , as he answered , -- `` He never repeated the offence ! 
-- It is enough , Mr Wilder ; the King rendered a faithful subject desperate , and he has had reason to repent it . 
`` Wilder saw the figure of his companion descend the ladder to the quarter-deck ; and then was he left to pursue the current of his thoughts , alone , during the remainder of a watch which , to his impatience , seemed without an end . 
`` She made good view of me ; indeed so much , That sure , methought , her eyes had lost her tongue , For she did speak in starts , distractedly . '' 
The Rover had relinquished his cabin to Mrs Wyllys and Gertrude , from the moment they entered the ship ; and we shall shift the scene to that apartment , -LRB- already sufficiently described to render the reader familiar with the objects it contained -RRB- , resuming the action of the tale at an early part of the discourse just related in the preceding chapter . 
Is not Mr Wilder your friend ? '' 
`` I know but little of him ; I never saw him before '' -- `` When , Roderick ? '' 
Then , your acquaintance with Mr Wilder commenced at Newport ? 
I carried him the order to take command of the Bristol trader . 
`` But they dared to threaten the life of Mr Wilder . 
`` Do you find Mr Wilder as much inclined to mercy as yourself ? '' 
`` There would be merit in his forbearance , since he appeared to be the particular object of the anger of the mutineers . '' 
`` And yet you saw he was not without his friends . 
You witnessed the devotion of the men who stood forth in his behalf ? '' 
`` I did ; and find it remarkable that he should have been able , in so short a time , to conquer thus completely two so stubborn natures . '' 
Although prepared to believe that Wilder was a secret agent of the Rover , she had endeavoured to hope his connexion with the freebooters was susceptible of some explanation more favourable to his character . 
However he might be implicated in the common guilt of those who pursued the hazards of the reckless fortunes of that proscribed ship , it was evident he bore a heart too generous to wish to see her , and her young and guileless charge , the victims of the licentiousness of his associates . 
His repeated and mysterious warnings no longer needed explanation . 
Then she saw at once the difficulty that Wilder might prove in laying open a secret in which not only his life was involved , but which , to a mind that was not hardened in vice , involved a penalty not less severe -- that of the loss of their esteem . 
Wilder she avoided , with an intuitive consciousness that he was no longer the character she had wished to believe ; but to all in the ship she struggled to maintain an equal air and a serene eye . 
Little explanation was necessary to acquaint Wilder with the reasons of this change . 
Instead of seeking the means to vindicate his character , however , he rather imitated their reserve . 
Little else was wanting to assure his former friends of the nature of his pursuits ; for even Mrs Wyllys admitted to her charge , that he acted like one in whom depravity had not yet made such progress as to have destroyed that consciousness which is ever the surest test of innocence . 
`` And all this occurred after your acquaintance with Mr Wilder ? '' 
`` You were saying , it is four-and-twenty years , '' interrupted Mrs Wyllys , `` since you made the acquaintance of Mr Wilder ? '' 
Lord , my Lady , little did he know of acquaintances at that time ; though , bless him ! 
`` But in what manner was your own shipwreck connected with the safety of Mr Wilder ? '' 
`` And how long did Mr Wilder continue in a King 's ship ? '' 
When a sort of implied assurance that their recent offences were overlooked had thus been given , he summoned Wilder , the General , and one or two others of the superior officers , to the poop , where they all disposed themselves to make more particular and more certain observations , by the aid of a halfdozen excellent glasses . 
-- But you say nothing , Mr Wilder ! 
I think you see no such gilded beauty in the stranger , Mr Wilder . '' 
demanded Wilder , thoughtfully . 
A pause succeeded , during which all the glasses , in imitation of that of Wilder , were again raised in the direction of the stranger . 
But no sooner did the wandering instrument fall on the distant object , than he dropped it again , and fastened his look , in a sort of stupid admiration , on Wilder . 
The tongue of your negro , Mr Wilder , is as exact as a carpenter 's rule . 
repeated the Rover , glancing his eye uneasily , and with a rapidity peculiar to himself , from one to the other , and from both to the rising object in the horizon : `` Skilful ! 
Your companions are so intelligent and so faithful , Mr Wilder , that you are not to be surprised if I shew an undue desire for their information . '' 
Wilder compressed his lips , and the rest of the groupe manifested a good deal of amazement ; but the latter had been too long accustomed to the caprice of their Commander , and the former was too wise , to speak at a moment when his humour seemed at the highest . 
`` He 'm sartain nothing but a fly-away , '' returned the obstinate black . 
Mr Wilder , do youtoo see the darker cloths in question ? '' 
Mr Wilder , speak . '' 
Wilder was about to retire with the rest , but a significant sign drew him to the side of his chief , who continued on the poop alone with his new confederate . 
`` The monotony of our lives is now likely to be interrupted , Mr Wilder , '' commenced the former , first glancing his eye around , to make sure they were alone . 
`` I would , Wilder , that we had known each other earlier . 
Wilder obeyed , seemingly glad to be relieved from a discourse that he might have found embarrassing . 
Many moments were passed before he dropped the glass , during which time not a syllable fell from the lips of his companion . 
When he turned , however , to deliver the result of his observations , he met an eye , that seemed to pierce his soul , fastened on his countenance . 
Colouring highly , as if he resented the suspicion betrayed by the act , Wilder closed his half-open lips , and continued silent . 
You are right , '' he continued , after taking a look himself at the approaching cloud of canvas ; `` you are very right . 
`` Now will I confess , Wilder , a secret pleasure in the belief that yonder audacious fool carries the boasted commission of the German who wears the Crown of Britain . 
Wilder , who had never before seen his new Commander thus excited , began to tremble for the fate of his ancient comrade , and drew nigher , as the latter approached , to intercede in his favour , should the circumstances seem to require such an interposition . 
interrupted Wilder , with earnestness and haste . 
`` Say nothing about it , master Harry , '' returned the topman , with a peculiar glance of his eye . 
I can venture to promise , in his name , ` twill be the last offence '' -- `` Let it be forgotten , '' returned the Rover , struggling powerfully to conquer his passion . 
`` I will not disturb our harmony at such a moment , Mr Wilder , by refusing so small a boon : but you need not be told to what evil such negligence might lead . 
The topman bestowed a stolen but exulting glance on Wilder , and then the latter motioned the other hastily away , turning himself to join his Commander in the examination . 
As Wilder bent his look again on this growing object , the Rover put a glass into his hands , with an expression of feature which the other understood to say , `` You may perceive that the carelessness of your dependant has already betrayed us ! '' 
On the contrary , it would seem that his Commander was anxious to preserve their recent amicable compact inviolate ; for , when the young mariner attempted an awkward explanation of the probable causes of the blunder of Fid , he was met by a quiet gesture , which said , in a sufficiently intelligible language , that the offence was already pardoned . 
`` Mr Wilder , '' he said quickly , and with an air of decision , `` you know the ship ? '' 
`` It would be difficult to deceive a topman in the cut and trim of sails among which he has passed months , nay years . '' 
Mr Wilder , your departure from that vessel has been recent ? '' 
Wilder shook his head , answering only with an incredulous smile . 
demanded Wilder , irresistibly attracted , by the manner of the Rover , to pursue the subject . 
Forget you , Wilder , that the day has been when the countrymen of that slow-moving and heavy-moulded fellow swept the narrow seas with a broom at their mast-heads ? '' 
The Rover smiled wildly as he spoke , and what he said he uttered with bitter emphasis . 
To his companion , however , there appeared no such grounds of unnatural exultation , in recalling the success of a foreign enemy , and he was content to assent to the truth of the historical fact with a simple inclination of his head . 
As if he even found pain in this confession , and would gladly be rid of the mortifying reflection altogether , he rejoined , in some apparent haste , -- `` You have overlooked the two tall seamen , who are making out the rig of the stranger with so much gravity of observation . '' 
-- 'T is a coarse word , Mr Wilder , but I fear we earn it . 
Mr Wilder , we will now show our canvas . '' 
The manner of the Rover changed as suddenly as his language . 
Losing the air of sarcastic levity in which he had been indulging , in a mien better suited to maintain the authority he wielded , he walked aside , while his subordinate proceeded to issue the orders necessary to enforce his commands . 
Nightingale sounded the usual summons , lifting his hoarse voice in the cry of `` All hands make sail , ahoy ! '' 
Order now followed order in quick succession , from the mouth of Wilder , who , in virtue of his station , was the proper executive officer for the moment . 
Sail had fallen after sail , and yard after yard had been raised to the summit of its mast , until the vessel bowed before the breeze , rolling to and fro , but still held stationary by the position of her yards . 
When all was in readiness to proceed , on whichever course might be deemed necessary , Wilder ascended again to the poop , in order to announce the fact to his superior . 
He found the Rover attentively considering the stranger , whose hull had by this time risen out of the sea , and exhibited a long , dotted , yellow line , which the eye of every man in the ship well knew to contain the ports whence the guns that marked her particular force were made to issue . 
`` We are ready to gather way on the ship , '' said Wilder ; `` we wait merely for the course . '' 
The Rover started , and drew closer to his subordinate , before he gave an answer . 
Then , looking him full and intently in the eye , he demanded , -- `` You are certain that you know you vessel , Mr Wilder ? '' 
`` Mr Wilder , '' resumed the Rover , `` we will try her speed . 
The young mariner made an acknowledgment of obedience , and proceeded to execute the wishes of his Commander . 
There was an eagerness , and perhaps a trepidation , in the voice of Wilder , as he issued the necessary orders , that was in remarkable contrast to the deep-toned calmness which characterized the utterance of the Rover . 
The unusual intonations did not entirely escape the ears of some of the elder seamen ; and looks of peculiar meaning were exchanged among them , as they paused to catch his words . 
`` Mr Wilder , '' he at length said , speaking like one whose doubts on some perplexing point were finally removed , `` I have seen that cruiser before . '' 
`` Tell me , Wilder , did they treat you , too , as one of an inferior order ? 
Wilder made a slight bow of assent . 
I will not ask you further of that adventure , Wilder ; for favour , in my service , is not to be bought by treachery to that you have quitted . 
demanded a mild but firm voice , at his elbow . 
The gleamings of some strangely contradictory passions crossed his features , and then his whole countenance changed to that look of bland courtesy which he most affected when addressing his captives . 
he exclaimed . 
Let it be set , Mr Wilder , that we may omit none of the observances of nautical etiquette . '' 
Wilder opened the little locker which contained the flags most in use , but hesitated which to select , out of a dozen that lay in large rolls within the different compartments . 
`` I hardly know which of these ensigns it is your pleasure to show , '' he said , in a manner that appeared sufficiently like putting a question . 
`` Try him with the heavy-moulded Dutchman . 
Wilder complied in silence . 
Let him contemplate the colours he loves so little , Mr Wilder ; when we are tired of showing them , our lockers may furnish another . '' 
The Rover glanced a look of impatient suspicion at the countenance of his companion ; but its expression changed to a smile of haughty audacity , as he answered , -- `` Let him equal the eagle in his highest and swiftest flight , he shall find us no laggards on the wing ! 
`` Because I know her force , and the hopeless character of a contest with an enemy so superior , '' returned Wilder , firmly . 
Mr Wilder , none are so daring , or so modest , as those who have long been accustomed to place their dependance on their own exertions . 
First casting a glance upward at his sails , and then throwing a general and critical look on all and every thing which came within the influence of his command , he calmly answered , -- `` We will imitate his example , Mr Wilder . 
It has been seen that the bearing of Wilder was not altogether such as became one of his rank in a moment of great trial . 
The keen , jealous glances of the Rover had studied and re-studied his manner , without arriving at any satisfactory conclusion as to its real cause . 
The colour was as fresh on the cheeks of the youth , and his limbs were as firm as in the hours of entire security ; but the unsettled wandering of his eye , and an air of doubt and indecision which pervaded a mien that ought to display qualities so opposite , gave his Commander cause for deep reflection . 
As if to find an explanation of the enigma in the deportment of the associates of Wilder , his look sought the persons of Fid and the negro . 
They were both stationed at the piece nearest to the place he himself occupied , the former filling the station of captain of the gun . 
Still , an air of broad and inexplicable surprise had possession of his rugged lineaments ; and ever , as his look wandered from the countenance of Wilder to their adversary , it was not difficult to discover that he marvelled to find the two in opposition . 
These large , jet-black orbs , however , rolled incessantly , like the more dogmatic organs of the topman , from Wilder to the strange sail , seeming to drink in fresh draughts of astonishment at each new look . 
Struck by these evident manifestations of some extraordinary and yet common sentiment between the two , the Rover profited by his own position , and the distance of the lieutenant , to address them . 
Leaning over the slight rail that separated the break of the poop from the quarter-deck , he said , in that familiar manner which the Commander is most wont to use to his inferiors when their services are becoming of the greatest importance , -- `` I hope , master Fid , they have put you at a gun that knows how to speak . '' 
He then caught a look from Wilder , whom he again beckoned to approach . 
`` Mr Wilder , '' he said , in a tone of kindness , `` I comprehend your feelings . 
`` It is too late , '' said Wilder , with a melancholy shake of the head . 
Wilder eagerly disappeared in the cabin , whither Mrs Wyllys had already withdrawn ; and , after communicating the intentions of his Commander to avoid an action , he conducted them into the depths of the vessel , in order that no casualty might arrive to imbitter his recollections of the hour . 
`` It is a tempting offer ; but I pass it , Wilder , for your sake . '' 
But Wilder , who regarded all the movements of his superior in silent amazement , was not slow in observing that the head of the `` Dolphin '' was laid a different way from that of the other , and that her progress had been arrested by the counteracting position of her head-yards ; a circumstance that afforded the advantage of a quicker command of the ship , should need require a sudden recourse to the guns . 
Still the observant eye of Wilder detected no hesitation or doubt in the manner of his chief . 
In this state of the doubtful game he played , and with the invitation still ringing in the ears of Wilder , the Rover motioned his lieutenant to his side . 
`` You hear that I am desired to visit my senior in the service of his Majesty , '' he said , with a smile of irony playing about his scornful lip . 
The start with which Wilder received this hardy proposal was far too natural to proceed from any counterfeited emotion . 
he exclaimed , when words were at command . 
echoed the youth , a bright flush giving an additional glow to the flashing of his kindling eye . 
Without waiting for an answer , the Rover led the way below , signing for his companion to follow . 
The undress , fanciful frock he wore in common was exchanged for the attire of one of his assumed rank and service , which had been made to fit his person with the nicest care , and with perhaps a coxcomical attention to the proportions of his really fine person ; and in all other things was he speedily equipped for the disguise he chose to affect . 
No sooner were these alterations in his appearance completed , -LRB- and they were effected with a brevity and readiness that manifested much practice in similar artifices -RRB- , than he disposed himself to proceed on the intended experiment . 
he coolly observed , turning his glance from a mirror to the countenance of his lieutenant , as he spoke , `` than those which embellish the countenance of Captain Bignall . '' 
`` Mr Wilder , my business imposes the necessity of knowing much that other men overlook . 
-- Wilder , '' he added , turning to him with a look of frank and courteous confidence , `` I place life and honour in your keeping ; for to me it would be dishonour to desert the interests of my crew . '' 
A deeply intent attitude of thought succeeded , and then every shadow of care vanished from that brow , on which a look of high and generous confidence was seated , as he added , -- `` Wilder , adieu ! 
But when the door of the cabin was opened , and Wilder stood before him , the most suspicious and closest observer might have sought in vain any evidence of the fierce passion which in reality agitated the inward man . 
`` His Majesty 's artisans have sent worse ships than the ` Dart ' upon the ocean , Wilder , '' he commenced , with a significant look , as if he intended that the other should supply all the meaning that his words did not express ; `` but his ministers might have selected a more observant individual for the command . '' 
`` We will call him , then , by his popular name , Mr Wilder -- a rover . 
The eyes of Wilder , notwithstanding every effort to the contrary , sunk before the piercing gaze they encountered , as he answered , -- `` Perhaps he is not without that knowledge , too . '' 
Folding his arms with calmness , Wilder simply replied , -- `` I have incurred this risk , in order to drive a scourge from the ocean , which had baffled all other attempts at its extermination . 
-- When the agent of his punishments , who had entered at the well-known summons , had retired , he again turned to the firm and motionless form that stood before him , and continued : `` Mr Wilder , there is a law which binds this community , into which you have so treacherously stolen , together , that would consign you , and your miserable confederates , to the yard-arm , the instant your true character should be known to my people . 
Mr Wilder , you are free . 
The conscious Wilder stood self-condemned and humbled . 
The strugglings which stirred his inmost soul were easily to be read in the workings of a countenance that was no longer masked in artifice , but which was deeply charged with shame and sorrow . 
`` Perhaps you know not the extent of my object , Captain Heidegger , '' he said ; `` it embraced the forfeit of your life , and the destruction , or dispersion , of your crew . '' 
`` Use such terms of triumph and reproach as suit your pleasure , sir , '' returned the other , reddening to the temples as he spoke ; `` to me your language can now convey no offence ; still would I not leave you without removing part of the odium which you think I merit . '' 
Although the most cutting revilings could not have wounded the repentant Wilder so deeply as this generous conduct , he so far subdued his feelings as to continue , -- `` You are not now to learn , '' he said , `` that vulgar rumour has given a colour to your conduct and character which is not of a quality to command the esteem of men . '' 
`` You may find leisure to deepen the tints , '' hastily interrupted his listener , though the emotion which trembled in his voice plainly denoted how deeply he felt the wound which was given by a world he affected to despise . 
`` There might have been powerful reasons to the contrary , '' resumed the defendant , unconsciously glancing his eyes at the females as he spoke . 
`` Wilder ! '' 
exclaimed the Rover , grasping his hand , with a smile that partook of the wild peculiarity of the action , `` we should have been acquainted earlier ! 
`` I shall never desert my charge , '' said Wilder , firmly . 
`` Mr. Wilder -- or I should rather call you Lieutenant Ark , I believe '' -- returned the Rover , `` you may trifle with my good nature till the moment of your own security shall be past . '' 
exclaimed Gertrude , veiling her eyes , in terror , from the insidious smile with which he approached her , as she would have avoided the attractive glance of a basilisk . 
Notwithstanding the vast self-command which the being she so ungovernably and spontaneously repelled had in common over his feelings , no effort could repress the look of deep and humiliating mortification with which he heard her . 
A cold and haggard smile gleamed over his features , as he murmured , in a voice which he in vain endeavoured to smother , -- `` I have purchased this disgust from all my species , and dearly must the penalty be paid ! 
he interrupted , `` you shall accompany your friend . 
asked a low voice at his elbow , in tones so plaintive and mild , that they could not fail to catch his ear . 
`` Roderick , '' he hurriedly replied , `` you will find occupation below . 
So soon as these brief arrangements were completed , he handed the governess , with studied courtesy , through his wondering people , to the side , and saw her safely seated , with her ward and Wilder , in the pinnace . 
The oars were manned by the two seamen , and a silent adieu was given by a wave of his hand ; after which he disappeared from those to whom their present release seemed as imaginary and unreal as had appeared their late captivity . 
The threat of the interference of the crew of the `` Dolphin '' was , however , still ringing in the ears of Wilder . 
`` Captain Bignall , '' observed the former , pointing to the tottering form which was leaning on Wilder for support , `` on my life , you are mistaken in the character of this lady . 
Wilder drew a long and deep breath , like one that awakes from a pleasing dream , reluctantly suffering himself to be forced from a spot where he fondly felt that he could have continued , without weariness , for ever . 
TheCommander of the `` Dart , '' and his bewildered lieutenant , had gained the quarter-deck before either spoke again . 
But the vessel of the Rover was in view , in all the palpable and beautiful proportions of her admirable construction . 
Instead of lying in a state of rest , as when he left her , her head-yards had been swung , and , as the sails filled with the breeze , the stately fabric had begun to move gracefully , though with no great velocity , along the water . 
On the contrary , the loftier and lighter sails had all been furled , and men were at the moment actively employed in sending to the deck those smaller spars which were absolutely requisite in spreading the canvas that would be needed in facilitating her flight . 
Wilder turned from the sight with a sickening apprehension ; for he well knew that these were the preparations that skilful mariners are wont to make , when bent on desperate combat . 
`` Few men understand the profession better than does the Captain of yonder vessel himself , '' returned Wilder . 
exclaimed Wilder , with a rapidity and delight that would have excited the suspicions of one more observant than his Commander . 
`` Let him note that in his log-book , Mr Ark , '' the irritable old seaman then resumed , returning to the spot which Wilder had not left during the intervening time . 
perhaps '' -- `` Say no more , my brave fellow , say no more , '' interrupted Wilder 's considerate but choleric Commander . 
`` I went by my assumed name while in yonder ship , '' Wilder forced himself to add . 
`` I 've taken the liberty to say as much already to myself , your Honour , '' resumed the topman , who was busying himself , near his two officers , in a manner that seemed to invite their attention . 
The colour on Wilder 's cheeks went and came , like the flushings of the evening sky , and his eyes were turned in every direction but that which would have encountered the astonished gaze of his veteran friend . 
exclaimed his Commander , with eyes distended , and an open mouth . 
`` Captain Bignall , '' said Wilder , `` I may have offended past forgiveness , in remaining so long silent ; but , when you hear my tale , there may be found some passages that shall plead my apology . 
The words of Wilder , aided as they were by an earnest and manly manner , laid a restraint on the mounting indignation of the choleric old seaman . 
`` I fear not , '' returned Wilder , unconsciously betraying his wishes in the words . 
`` I pledge myself for his faith , '' eagerly exclaimed Wilder `` Let a gun be fired to leeward . 
The helm of the ship was put a-lee ; and , as her head came sweeping up into the wind , a sheet of flame flashed from her leeward bow-port , sending the customary amicable intimation across the water , that those who governed her movements would communicate with the possessors of the vessel in sight . 
At the same instant , a small flag , with a spotless field , was seen floating at the topmost elevation of all her spars , whilst the flag of England was lowered from the gaff . 
A flag , similar to their own , was seen floating , as it might be , like a dove fanning its wings , far above her tops ; but no emblem of any sort was borne at the spar , where the colours which distinguish the national character of a cruiser are usually seen . 
In conformity with this determination , the `` Dart '' was brought on the other tack , and several sails were set , in order to quicken her speed . 
When at the distance of half cannon shot , Wilder suggested to his superior the propriety of arresting their further progress , in order to avoid the appearance of hostilities . 
The boat was immediately lowered into the sea , and manned ; a flag of truce set in her bows ; and the whole was reported ready to receive the bearer of the message . 
The boat shoved off from the side of the vessel as he ended , and in a few moments the listening Wilder was borne far beyond the sound of any further words of advisement . 
Though not so deeply imbued with that species of superstitious credulity , on this subject , as the inferiors of his profession , Wilder was keenly awake to most of the sensibilities of a mariner . 
So strongly , indeed , was he alive to this feeling , on the present occasion , that for a moment he forgot the critical nature of his errand , as he drew within plainer view of a vessel that , with justice , might lay claim to be a jewel of the ocean . 
`` Lay on your oars , lads , '' he said , signing to his people to arrest the progress of the boat ; `` lay on your oars ! 
The topman , who rowed the stroke-oar of the pinnace , cast a look over his shoulder , and , stowing into one of his cheeks a lump that resembled a wad laid by the side of its gun , he was not slow to answer , on an occasion where his opinion was so directly demanded . 
`` I care not who knows it , '' he said , `` for , done by honest men or done by knaves , I told the people on the forecastle of the ` Dart , ' in the first five minutes after I got among them again , that they might be at Spithead a month , and not see hamper so light , and yet so handy , as is seen aboard that flyer . 
said Wilder , drawing a long breath . 
The stern and threatening glances that Wilder encountered , as his foot touched the planks , caused him to pause an instant , ere he advanced further amid the crew . 
But the presence of the Rover himself , who stood , with his peculiar air of high and imposing authority , on the quarter-deck , encouraged him to proceed , after permitting a delay that was too slight to attract attention . 
His lips were in the act of parting , when a sign from the other induced him to remain silent , until they were both in the privacy of the cabin . 
`` Suspicion is awake among my people , Mr Ark , '' commenced the Rover , when they were thus retired , laying a marked and significant emphasis on the name he used . 
But , '' he immediately added , with dignity , `` if you bear a message , I may presume it is intended for my ears . '' 
`` I repeat but the words of my superior , '' Wilder resumed . 
demanded Wilder , when the look of the other wandered from the paper . 
`` Captain Heidegger , '' said Wilder , colouring , `` I will not attempt to conceal , that , had this message depended solely on myself , it might have been couched in different terms ; but as one , who still deeply retains the recollection of your generosity , as a man who would not willingly induce even an enemy to an act of dishonour , do I urge their acceptance . 
`` I had not thought I entertained so close a casuist in Mr Henry Wilder . 
Mr Wilder , do not leave him . 
Since you have been among us , he is nearer to what I know he once was , than formerly . 
Take away that mistaken statement of your force ; threats do but harden him : As a friend , admonish ; but hope for nothing as a minister of vengeance . 
`` Wilder , the child is frightened by this counting of guns and numbering of people . 
He fears the anger of your anointed master . 
Go ; give him place in your boat , and recommend him to the mercy of your superior . '' 
See , here is much gold ; you will commend him to the care of that admirable woman who already watches one scarcely less helpless , though possibly less -- '' `` Guilty ! 
Look , '' he said , taking the ponderous bag , which had been extended towards Wilder , and holding it high above his head , in scorn , `` this can I cast from me ; but the tie which binds me to you shall never be broken . '' 
As he spoke , the lad approached an open window of the cabin ; a plash upon the water was heard , and then a treasure , that might have furnished a competence to moderate wishes , was lost for ever to the uses of those who had created its value . 
`` Go , Mr Wilder , go ; your boat is waiting ; a longer stay will be without an object . '' 
demanded Wilder , extending an arm towards the nearly naked spars and motionless hull of their neighbour . 
`` Captain Bignall , '' said Wilder , leading his Commander still further from the ears of their inferiors . 
Wilder , who was accustomed to the honest professional bravados that often formed a peculiar embellishment to the really firm and manly resolution of the seamen of that age , permitted him to make his plaints at will , while he busied himself in a manner that he knew was now of the last importance , and in a duty that properly came under his more immediate inspection , in consequence of the station he occupied . 
The earnest , serious manner of Wilder had not failed to produce its influence on the straight-minded seaman who commanded the `` Dart ; '' and , by this time , he was as much disposed as his lieutenant to approach the conflict leisurely , and with proper caution . 
Wilder assented ; for , by this time , high professional pride was swelling in his bosom also , and a generous rivalry was getting the mastery of feelings that were possibly foreign to his duty , however natural they might have been in one as open to kindness as himself . 
The order was obeyed ; and then the `` Dart , '' feeling the powerful impulse , quickened her speed , like an animated being , that is freshly urged by its apprehensions or its wishes . 
By this time , she had gained a position on the weather-quarter of her adversary , who had not manifested the smallest desire to prevent her attaining so material an advantage . 
On the contrary , while the `` Dolphin '' kept the same canvas spread , she continued to lighten her top-hamper , bringing as much of the weight as possible , from the towering height of her tall masts , to the greater security of the hull . 
`` He will not be moved by any of the devices of lawful and ordinary warfare , '' said Wilder , when he witnessed the indifference with which their challenge had been received . 
Wilder answered only by cheering his own people to their fierce and laborious task . 
The important circumstance was instantly conveyed from the master to Wilder , and from Wilder to his superior . 
cried Wilder , `` the sails are already hanging against the masts like rags ; the explosions of the artillery have stilled the wind . '' 
In the mean time , while Bignall , and the officers whose duties kept them near his person , assisted by the sail-trimmers , were thus occupied , the people in the batteries continued their murderous employment . 
By Heaven , Mr Wilder , those knaves well know they are struggling for their lives ! '' 
`` He has not answered with a single gun , for near a minute . '' 
interrupted Wilder , with sufficient decision to check his Commander 's premature exultation ; `` on my life , our work is not so soon ended . 
A shout from the men in the batteries interrupted his words ; and then came a general cry that the pirates were sheering off . 
Wilder , startled more at the proximity and apparent weight of the squall than at words to which he had been long accustomed , delayed not to give an order that was seemingly so urgent . 
Many sprung to the well-known ropes , while others , as they ascended into the cloud which still hung on the vessel , became lost to the eye in her rigging . 
demanded Wilder , standing with the trumpet at his lips , ready to issue the necessary order . 
` Fore George , Mr Wilder , but this wind is not playing with us ; cheer up the men to their work ; speak to them cheerily , sir ! '' 
shouted Wilder . 
Little disposed to seek the same miserable consolation as his Commander , Wilder exerted himself in counteracting , so far as circumstances would allow , an injury that he felt , however , at that moment to be irreparable . 
All recollection of the favours of the past , and every feeling of gratitude , was banished from the mind of Wilder , by the mountings of powerful professional pride , and that love of glory which becomes inherent in the warrior , as he gazed on the untouched and beautiful symmetry of the `` Dolphin 's '' spars , and all the perfect , and still underanged , order of her tackle . 
`` I would advise a moment 's delay , '' Wilder earnestly observed , when he heard his Commander issuing an order to his people to prepare to deliver their fire , the instant their enemy should come within a favourable position . 
Wilder saw that remonstrance was now too late ; for a fresh broadside was hurled from the `` Dart , '' to defeat any generous intentions that the Rover might entertain . 
The ship of the latter received the iron storm , while advancing , and immediately deviated gracefully from her course , in such a way as to prevent its repetition . 
Then she was seen sweeping towards the bows of the nearly helpless cruiser of the King , and a hoarse summons was heard ordering her ensign to be lowered . 
The graceful ship , as if sensible herself to the taunts of her enemy , sprung nigher to the wind , and shot across the fore-foot of the `` Dart , '' delivering her fire , gun after gun , with deliberate and deadly accuracy , full into that defenceless portion of her antagonist . 
Until now , Wilder had made good his quarter of the deck , though pressed by a band as fierce and daring as his own ; but , at this fearful crisis in the combat , a voice was heard in the melée , that thrilled on all his nerves , and seemed even to carry its fearful influence over the minds of his men . 
shouted Wilder in reply . 
Wilder saw , with agony , that numbers and impetuosity were sweeping his supporters from around himAgain and again he called them to the succour with his voice , or stimulated them to daring by his example . 
Friend after friend fell at his feet , until he was driven to the utmost extremity of the deck . 
Here he again rallied a little band , against which several furious charges were made , in vain . 
exclaimed a voice he well knew ; `` death to all traitors ! 
Nothing daunted by the defenceless state in which he found himself , Scipio made his way to the front of Wilder , where , with a body divested to the waist of every garment , and empty handed , he fought with his brawny arms , like one who despised the cuts , thrusts and assaults , of which his athletic frame immediately became the helpless subject . 
cried Wilder , who saw the numberless blows that were falling on the defenceless body of the still undaunted black . 
The momentary confusion which accompanied the fall of Scipio soon disappeared , and Wilder was left to gaze on the wreck of all the boasted powers of his cruiser , and on that waste of human life , which had been the attendants of the struggle . 
Within a few yards of the place he was permitted to occupy himself , stood the motionless form of the Rover . 
As the eye of Wilder roamed over the swelling , erect , and still triumphant figure , it was difficult not to fancy that even the stature had been suddenly and unaccountably increased . 
One hand rested on the hilt of a yataghan , which , by the crimson drops that flowed along its curved blade , had evidently done fatal service in the fray ; and one foot was placed , seemingly with supernatural weight , on that national emblem which it had been his pride to lower . 
His eye was wandering sternly , but understandingly , over the scene , though he spoke not , nor in any other manner betrayed the deep interest he felt in the past . 
At his side , and nearly within the circle of his arm , stood the cowering form of the boy Roderick , unprovided with weapon , his garments sprinkled with blood , his eye contracted , wild , and fearful , and his face pallid as those in whom the tide of life had just ceased to circulate . 
Wilder felt many a pang , as the marble-like features of humble friend or faithful servitor came , one after another , under his recognition ; but the shock was greatest when his eye fell upon the rigid , and still frowning , countenance of his veteran Commander . 
`` Captain Heidegger , '' he said , struggling to maintain the fortitude which became the moment ; `` the fortune of the day is yours : I ask mercy and kindness , in behalf of the survivors . '' 
Wilder might have mused long and vainly , however , on the equivocal manner in which he had been answered , had not the approach of a body of the hostile crew , among whom he instantly recognised the most prominent of the late mutineers of the `` Dolphin , '' speedily supplied a clue to the hidden meaning of their leader . 
Had any doubt remained in the mind of Wilder , as to the meaning of these terrible claimants of justice , it would have vanished at the sullen , ominous manner with which he and his two companions were immediately dragged before the lawless chief . 
Though the love of life was strong and active in his breast , it was not , even in that fearful moment , exhibited in any deprecating or unmanly form . 
Not for an instant did his mind waver , or his thoughts wander to any subterfuge , that might prove unworthy of his profession or his former character . 
One anxious , inquiring look was fastened on the eye of him whose power alone might save him . 
He witnessed the short , severe struggle of regret that softened the rigid muscles of the Rover 's countenance ; and then he saw the instant , cold , and calm composure which settled on every one of its disciplined lineaments . 
He knew , at once , that the feelings of the man were smothered in the duty of the chief , and more was unnecessary to teach him the utter hopelessness of his condition . 
Wilder cast a last glance of appeal at the Rover ; but he met no look , in return , from a face that was intentionally averted . 
Then , with a burning brain , he felt himself rudely transferred from the quarter-deck into the centre and less privileged portion of the ship . 
The violence of the passage , the hurried reeving of cords , and all the fearful preparations of a nautical execution , appeared but the business of a moment , to him who stood so near the verge of time . 
He was then moving slowly aside , in imitation of the governess , who had already veiled her features from the revolting scene , when Wilder addressed him . 
`` For the service you would have done me , from my soul I thank you , '' he said . 
Amid an awful and breathing silence , the chaplain approached the devoted companions of Wilder . 
Fid was seated on the deck , his collar unbuttoned , his neck encircled with the fatal cord , sustaining the head of the helpless black , which he had placed , with singular tenderness and care , in his lap . 
`` This man , at least , will disappoint the malice of his enemies , '' said the divine , taking the hard hand of the negro into his own ; `` the termination of his wrongs and his degradation approaches ; he will soon be far beyond the reach of human injustice . 
Place your faith on another '' -- `` If I do , may I be -- '' `` Peace , '' said Wilder . 
As Wilder placed the member within the grasp of the dying negro , the latter succeeded in laying it on his lips , and then , flourishing with a convulsive movement that herculean arm which he had so lately and so successfully brandished in defence of his master , the limb stiffened and fell , though the eyes still continued their affectionate and glaring gaze on that countenance he had so long loved , and which , in the midst of all his long-endured wrongs , had never refused to meet his look of love in kindness . 
exclaimed the lady , rushing madly in front of Wilder , and seizing the cord which , a moment before , had been tightened nearly to his destruction , stripping it from his throat , with a sort of supernatural dexterity : `` It was not , then , the name of a ship ? '' 
`` It means no great things , now , my Lady , '' returned Fid , very coolly placing himself in the same condition as Wilder , by profiting by the liberty of his arms , and loosening his own neck from the halter , notwithstanding a movement made by some of the people to prevent it , which was , however , staid by a look from their leader 's eyes . 
A loud cry burst from the lips of the governess ; her hands were clasped one single instant upward , in that thanksgiving which oppressed her soul , and then , as recollection returned , Wilder was pressed fondly , frantickly to her bosom , while her voice was heard to say , in the piercing tones of all-powerful nature , -- `` My child ! 
He next turned to Wilder ; and , making a mighty but successful effort to still his feelings , he added , -- `` Now must we , too , part . 
Wilder had soon seen his mother and Gertrude into the pinnace ; but he still lingered on the deck himself . 
he said , `` what will become of you ? '' 
When Wilder found himself restored to his proper vessel , of which the death of Bignall had left him in command , he immediately issued the order to fill her sails , and to steer for the nearest haven of his country . 
`` Wilder , '' he said , with an effort in which his utmost strength appeared exerted , `` I have come to ask the last office at your hands . '' 
But , Wilder ! '' 
he added with startling energy , `` Wilder ! 
`` Wilder ! '' 
