Dear Charles , -- You insist that I am an incorrigible skeptic , and seem inclined to deliver me over to the secular arm . 
Very near the truth this , Charles , for on the identical night I certainly was `` in a kind of place , '' being at a phrenological lecture ; and at the earnest request of the company , I did consent to sit for my phrenology ! 
At all events , Charles , I find it easier to admit the belief of trickery than to call absurdity and impossibility , truth : and so , if you willcall me incorrigible , I answer -- feel my organ . 
In my next , expect , Charles , some narrations showing the influence of imagination ; in which will be seen that the truthin here at Kaleidaville , is strange as your fictionout there at Somewhersburg . 
Dear Charles , -- Many years ago there lived in our beautiful village a very respectable family called Dorson . 
To be sure , Charles , this reward was asked long before the temperance era , yet it must seem strange , to all having little or no acquaintance with facts illustrative of our love of deception where we wish to be deceived , that the Dorsons , a family who in other circumstances would probably have instantly turned such an insolent intruder into the street , did not only allow him to try his jugglery , but agreed to pay his price ! 
Well , Charles , the physician went to his office , and in due time returned with the medicine . 
Standing by the bed , and in the presence of the anxious friends , taking a small box from his pocket , he thus addressed the patient : `` Mary ! 
And , Charles , she staidcured , and that for many years ; and this miracle , far surpassing any mesmeric or even popish miracle , was owing to the most potent energy of -- three wheat bread pills ! 
Dear Charles , -- And so you sneer at the `` bread pills , '' as mere stuff ! 
But , Charles , is it very wonderful that a clairvoyant , even if but half asleep , should think he saw `` a sausage '' affair in a lady 's dressing-room ? 
The wonder is he should see any thing else ; for the whole female world is nearly encompassed in -- bustle . 
And , moreover , I do stoutly maintain that it is , for me at least , easier to believe that `` the young man of good character '' had made an arrangement with Miss Foril to call and leave the article , than to believe his spirit went forth from his body on a bustle-hunt ! 
Dear Charles , -- Are you in earnest in defending phrenomagnetism ? 
Why , Charles , the seeming facts in favor of witchcraft , were a thousand-fold more numerous , and ten thousand times better attested , than facts establishing our modern wonders ; and yet we very sapient men of the nineteenth century , wesneer at the Puritans ! 
Charles , let men of your cloth not tamper with delusion and trickery . 
Charles , if you do persist in this sort of supereminent nonsense , I will turn Diogenes in Lucian 's dialogues , and sing at you all the best classic -- O tempora ! 
Why , Charles , you remember the tooth pulled for me by the Hoosier doctor on Big Bear Wallow Bottom -- do n't you know how I magnified the torture by anticipation , and yet , it was so little in reality that I jumped up and cried , `` Doctor , it did not hurt at all ! '' 
Dear Charles , -- And could youremain a witness of such a scene as described in your last , and not rebuke the gross folly and impiety ? 
Charles , there is a short way for us of dealing with all such matters , and that is this : `` Let God be true and every man a liar . '' 
Charles , clergyman as you are , I tremble at the possibility of your being caught in the snare , if you go into the way of the tempter . 
Do , dear Charles , never again countenance such exhibitions as tend to throw , directly or indirectly , discredit on our holy religion . 
Charles , a malicious unbeliever would say the chaps told a deliberate lie ! 
Dear Charles , -- I still insist , with all due deference , that human nature can do any thing , however base , wicked or deceptious , to excite wonder , attract admiration , or get money . 
For my part , Charles , I must say that the phrenological and mesmeric tricks are vastly inferior , in amusement and adroitness , to those of legerdemain . 
Above is a heavy kite , but we will fly it with an ample bob-tail : -- in other words , Charles , we shall illustrate with a long tale . 
Dear Charles , I had designed to make this a very long letter : but the sequel and conclusion must be reserved for my next . 
Dear Charles , -- I have acted like a Turkish story-teller ; and without doubt you are on pinstill you know the rest ! 
-- Aye , Charles , the gullable part of the world tie `` red flannel '' over their own eyes and ears , as well as over their pump noses -- an allusion , perhaps , you can not understand unless you have been favored with as extraordinary goosesout there as in here ; which is hardly possible , as with you schoolmasters are not soabroad in the land as with us , nor your folks so learned and scientific as ours . 
And that , Charles , was the case . 
Charles , it was not so wonderful that both , but especially the mother , should have thought the serpent was Satan , and that he had come to prevent the cure of his victim , and when disappointed , had hurried away in a rage ! 
Dear Charles , -- Your rebuke is not merited . 
Now , Charles , scarce any form of quackery exists , that will not , again and again a thousand times , light on patients with seeming , that is , imaginary complaints : and , beyond all doubt , when such patients have full confidence in the proposed remedy , a quack nostrum -LRB- if otherwise harmless -RRB- will cure as well as any other medicine ; and any remedy is just as efficacious as nothing . 
Charles , I have on divers occasions quacked a little myself -- but alas ! 
But , Charles , it will be found that well-educated physicians , like all well-educated persons that make a profession a science , as well as an art , are necessarily and of choice , open , and honorable , and philosophic in their course . 
Not exactly , Charles , but he had caught it from a beauteous soft mellow light reflected from the changing leaves of a delightful autumn morning -- which was giving all things in that quarter of the apartment a somewhat jaundicedhue ! 
Doubtless , Charles , the humbugaths would wrinkle up the nasal appendage at all such stories and incidents , with an `` oh -- ah ! '' 
Dear Charles , -- You are a very modest man in offering me a recipe for a multum in parvoletter , as if my consilii medicinamight have been condensed , and so saved double postage . 
Have youjoined , Charles , and are you sincere in wondering at me ? 
Think not , Charles , that quackery is confined to philosophy and medicine ; it is found in morals , and education , and religion . 
And yet , Charles , does such refinement never open a plain way to the gallows ? 
But , Charles , suppose a governor should pardon the unfortunate , or that the poor deluded criminal should murder his keeper or a fellow-prisoner ? 
yes , Charles , you deem all this just like Carlton , -- but , Sir , willno modern philanthropist full of the milk of human kindness and running over till his chin calls out for bibs , willnone such ever construct a jail-delivery system on something like the above argument ; and deeming his pet jail-birds sufficiently reformed , determine to send them with bran new wings , forth-flying again upon society ? 
I can and do with you , dear Charles , weep over those unhappy men , who , perchance , may have been condemned and executed wrongfully : for it seems possible , and is doubtless true , that here and there an innocent man has perished on the scaffold . 
I know this letter will cost double postage , Charles , but that will be a proper punishment for your inclining an ear to our modern New Lights . 
If you do , Charles , I will positively lick you ; I have a rod in soak . 
Dear Charles , -- No : `` it is notso surprising that there should be fears about your becoming a member of a Moral Suasion Society . '' 
Do not misunderstand these remarks , Charles ; for I do think men of your cloth may join somemoral societies , and ought , perhaps , to join others ; as , for instance , certain peace and temperance societies . 
Charles , you can not cryfolly out of a child 's heart -- all experience teaches that it must be done by the rod of correction . 
Charles , I rather suspect , from some hints in your letters , that my crudities are read to certain of your friends out there . 
Well , as you like ; but do not show this to poor Smoothy , unless you do think it would do him some good . 
Dear Charles , -- You ask , if I do not believe the blessed founder of our religion would have countenanced the societies that you name . 
Do we err , then , Charles , in believing that our blessed Master would have stood aloof , even from many moral organizations , in which was much that we do know he would have approved ? 
If , therefore , Charles , this be true , and it appears so to me , surely we can not think , if Jesus Christ were now on the earth , or had made his appearance for the first time , that he would in any degree depart from a line of conduct which he manifestly has been pleased to prescribe for himself . 
Indeed , Charles , all exertion of mind must be destroyed ; all trouble of thinking , all exercise of forbearance and charity must cease , if one could at a word know from his divine Master when he was right or wrong . 
Charles , even good and worthy disciples would not know their spirits ; and although kept meek and kind by existing circumstances now , would then flame out with strange zeal , and `` call down fire from heaven , '' to destroy all not apparently of their party ! 
Dear Charles , -- Theoretically , I have ever believed in a special providence . 
Charles , you seem curious to know how we contrive to become intimate with the medical folks ; well , I will tell you . 
To him , Charles , you owe the incidents in my former letters , where we talked so irreverently of mesmerism and other quackeries ; and those stories are true , strictly and literally , except that namesand placesare made to conceal persons . 
Charles , I mean not to defend , in the general , what is called light reading , but had our dear friend dealt more in that kind of writing and literature , and less in theological writing , his mind would have escaped a species of monomania -- philosophizing about religion . 
Why , Charles , our friend could , like the Scotch reviewer , have written a whole magazine himself : critiques , heavy articles , light articles , histories , tales , poetry , prose -- all himself . 
It may sometimes be unavoidable , but even then , it is to me , Charles , an alarming necessity to speak of the intellect and will of God in a manner analogous to our own . 
To me , Charles , it seems wise as well as reverent , to believethat God made the worlds . 
Charles , I pardon your sneer about my infallibility , especially as you , a `` grave and reverend seigneur , '' indulge in that pretty philippic about Fourierism . 
Dear Charles , -- Of course , you were not wrong in your guess : I had a doctor at my elbow ; and , as you insist , here is an incident in his life ; and one in which my friend sees clearly the hand of a special providence . 
In all this my friend thinks , as we have remarked , that he discerns the hand of a special providence ; and , Charles , we can not but think he discerns rightly . 
Dear Charles , -- I knew you would be interested in my friend , and that you would like to hear more about him . 
However , I do not mean any offence , Charles , but yet I think no more of a privatejournal intendedto be published , than of a privateprayer intendedto be overheard ; for a domine 's heart is about as tricky and treacherous as other men 's , and he may pray and preach and sigh for Buncum , rather than for the church . 
Charles , what a scene ! 
Imagine all this , Charles -- the coffin with its new tenant ; the naked body gashed with a frightful wound and stained with blood ; the doctor in dissecting order , knife in hand , and blood upon his arms ; before him two half naked furies , yelling and swearing , ready to tear him to pieces , and he the while self-possessed ! 
But you know , Charles , that my love for your order , and my opinion of their very great excellence , has been expressed , ex animo , in a public work . 
Dear Charles -- I am not surprised that you `` stand up '' for the clergy ; but why read my last two letters to that inveterate skeptic , Coolheady ? 
Pray , tell me , Charles , does your soi-disantphilosopher believe at all in a Supreme Intelligent Sovereign ? 
If he does not , our argument is ended ; an infidel of his age is past my powers . 
And , Charles , such special providence , more or less marked , takes place every day and hour and moment . 
Dear Charles , it is my firm conviction , founded on evidence satisfactory to myself , that if providences are carefully regarded by us , and thankfully improved , and if we do , childlike , trust implicitly in God as a Father reconciled through his Son ; it is my firm conviction that special providences will increase in number , and , if I may so speak , in intensity , so that we may look back and see them like so many distinct and bright lights in the darkness of the past , marking there the path along which we are walking to our rest . 
No , Charles , he scornsmine : it is I that pityhis . 
How can he pity , when he can not believe me a loser ? 
I see and know him to be a loser of measureless joy and hope . 
poor old gentleman , I have spoken playfully about him sometimes , but Charles , I dopity him . 
All God 's creatures are dear to him , Charles . 
Dear Charles , -- Doubtless your opinion is , in the general , correct ; autobiography is interesting and valuable . 
Dear Charles , do you wish me to become a Congregationalist , and `` give in my experience to the church , '' not in a representative but collective capacity ? 
Why , Charles , that experience contains a dream ; and would , no doubt , by some pure democratical churches be regarded as a very important part . 
You know my history , Charles , how I was left an orphan in early infancy . 
And that -- mark me carefully , Charles -- thatwas to me a most special providence : for that only saved me from an early perdition , and , if I ever reach a better world , did , as an instrument , insure my home . 
Many , Charles , have gone only half my frightful way , who have never returned . 
Hear why , Charles . 
Down deep in his inmost heart were dormant truths , implanted years before , which all of a sudden waked in their energy , and said in a still small voice , and yet powerful as God 's own thunder -- `` Thou hast gone to the verge of ruin away from God ! 
Did I , who had scoffed at all religion , and in such a way as would have chilled your very blood , Charles , did I scoff at this ? 
Dear Charles , -- You say that no comments will be made till you have other incidents , and that perhaps you will then favor me with some remarks . 
In other words , Charles , my imagination is not utterly overwhelmed with horror in contemplating violent death in some of its forms . 
Charles , and wended my way , sullen and resolved , to the wharf . 
Charles , there were things in my early days bitter indeed , and which often drove my wayward and proud spirit to the verge of madness , or worse ! 
Must you have my dream , Charles ? 
Dear Charles , -- Allow me to write a preface to my dream . 
And , pray , Charles , what harm if unusual hints and intimations preserve in our minds a solemn awe of that mysterious world -- real , although invisible ? 
Is it so very wonderful and incredible that the Supreme should care about his creatures ? 
dear Charles ! 
dear Charles , canit be possible ? 
Charles , it was the face and the voice of my dream ! 
His words , however , came like a sword of burning flame into the depths of my soul . 
And when he told the despairing death of an infidel who had done a horrid act of impiety -- like one I myself , my diabolical self , had done -- then , dearest Charles , then did the `` sharp arrows of the Almighty enter and drink up my spirit ! '' 
Dear Charles , -- `` Some persons , and perhaps the majority of religious people , '' you say , `` would be at a loss to see special providences in such things as I relate , who yet would willingly attribute the impressions and restraints of my early life to the Holy Spirit . '' 
Charles , be assured that is the meaning of the promise . 
Charles , believe me that , notwithstanding all we hear about the extreme cruelty of slave-owners to their slaves , and the invincible hatred slaves have for their masters , in many cases what is affirmed is a slanderous and malicious lie . 
* * * * Charles ! 
Charles , I became ashamed of this , then -- -LRB- my tears are often atoning for it now -RRB- -- and in my far-off wanderings from God , I partially forgot , -- no , no , not forgot -- I partially and purposely avoided her ! 
And so , Charles , I read in the Scriptures , and then , in her little dark and humble back room , we both kneeled down together -- the aged saint and the repentant prodigal -- she a converted idolater , and weighed down with near an hundred years of deep and abundant sorrow , and I a converted infidel , in the prime of early manhood ; and our souls were united in a prayer to the same reconciled Father ! 
Charles , canI ever forget what happened ? 
Dear Charles , -- The mention of yourAfrican reminds me of a providential deliverance Mrs. C. and myself experienced many years ago , in one of our journeys across the Alleghany Mountains . 
Dear Charles , -- You do deserve to have your knuckles rapped for such skepticism about the reality of my danger , and for daring to say `` I was more scared than hurt . '' 
As to my not being important enough to have any special deliverance wrought for me , I do say , Charles , if any thing like that is your real opinion , then my real opinion is , the sooner you quit preaching the better . 
But if I do not cease , I shall imitate your cloth in their temperate discussions , and become personal ; and Entirely , dear Charles , do I concur as to the extent in meaning of the promises . 
Charles , here is the very point at which a special Providence takes care of us . 
Nor dare I , Charles , conceal experience on this point , though at the hazard of inferences prejudicial to my intellect and my modesty . 
It is , Charles , becausewe are mean , and worthless , and powerless , and miserable , and blind , and naked , and have need of all things , that God 's special care is over us ! 
Dear Charles , -- I can furnish your reverence with sermons , to be sure ; but perhaps some persons would do better to write their own , and not borrow so much from the living and the dead . 
I repeat it , Charles , and that whether the thought occur in the standard authors or not , I repeat that all men have a native force , an originality . 
Dear Charles , -- * * * yes , but I must again remind you that it is in the little things the hand of a special providence is discerned . 
Charles , if `` the poor have the gospel preached unto them , '' then the poor are , in the sight of heaven , `` of more value than many sparrows ; '' and yet not one sparrow falls without special permission . 
Charles , your clerical and official gravity -- -LRB- before the world -RRB- -- makes you often rebuke me for `` these sallies ; '' -- as if silly things ought not to be laughed at ! 
Charles , what a ferociously grand little worm ! 
To me , Charles , the intrinsic silliness of what opposes true religion is apparent . 
Charles , there is at least a hint for a sermon ; and here is a text : `` The wicked shall rise to shame and everlasting contempt ! '' 
Dear Charles , -- I acknowledge a forgotten promise . 
Ought we not , Charles , distrust our vitalChristianity if we have not from the inmost soul abandonedourselves , unreservedly , entirely , to the revealed plan of gaining heaven ? 
But , Charles , looking no farther than the present life , and narrowing our view to the contemplation of mere earthly good , even yet in a thousand instances can it be plainly seen , that evilleads to good . 
And this , Charles , not in the fretful and rather suspicious spirit of your hero , but from the very depth of souls pervaded with love , gratitude , and veneration . 
Yes , Charles , sentiments written in this sheet are not mere words or theory . 
Dear Charles , -- You think I stand committed to give you `` some adverse incidents leading to good . '' 
In all this , Charles , I have long discerned the hand of a gracious Providence . 
Charles , many lessons not given at schools , are yet highly important for us in this world , whether we would reach heaven , or do good on the earth . 
All praise the `` know-thyself '' lesson ; but , Charles , a man can not know himself by looking for ever into flattering mirrors . 
What , Charles , in such cases is wanting ? 
Dear Charles , -- My false steps at Bellevue introduced me to an intimate acquaintance with poverty ; and an apartment in limbowas before my eyes . 
And yet was it fit that we should suffer more * * * yes , in the midst of a city in the Old Purchase , Charles , we endured what we had in the log cabins of the New Purchase -- sometimes with not a dollar to buy food -- threatened with prosecutions for unavoidable debt -- forced to sell articles of furniture to pay rents -- arrested by professedly good men , and in the midst * * * * . 
Charles , my heart had nearly failed * * * years of darkness and horror were the consequence of these mental shocks ; but in the midst , and when a wall to prevent all escape seemed around , at that moment came into my mind , `` Go , visit Dr. P. '' This gentleman I had not seen for more than twenty years , and we never corresponded ; nor had I any special claim or intimacy * * * but in the despair of my crushed soul something seemed to say , `` He perhaps can help you ! '' 
And similar , Charles , is also the experience of some very excellent persons of my acquaintance ; and doubtless the experience of innumerable good men every where , if we only knew their histories . 
I am not willing to go into detail , Charles , as you wish . 
Charles , our timid flesh cowers at the thoughts of a torturing martyrdom ; we do fear lest shrinking nature mustdraw back from that test ; but we have been where we did seewhat made it possible for other Christiansto lie on the bed of fire , as on a bed of down ! 
Dear Charles , -- I shall not answer your letter from the Ato the Izzard . 
I have a notion , Charles , that most books in a man 's library are never opened . 
But secundo , Charles , when a man of active mind , like your humbleservant , for instance , has no observations cut and dried on his library shelves , why , of course he begins in self-defence to make observations for himself ; and having no authorities , he becomes authority for himself -- in other words , he sets up a domestic manufactory . 
However , Charles , some books I have ever deemed a serious loss -- my tool-books . 
Charles , I am not aware of having brought `` a railing accusation '' against any body . 
Dear Charles , -- You say that in my last I not only `` began with Izzard , but ended there . '' 
I do , indeed , agree with you , Charles , that the Bible contains subjects innumerable for poetry and the fine arts : and yet moral lessons are not always taught by the finest productions of the pencil and the chisel . 
I grant also , Charles , and freely , that by some persons , and without counteracting efforts of mind , and by others , with the aid of virtuous resistance , nuditiesin statuary and painting may be contemplated and studied , with no present evil . 
It is not very improbable , Charles , that multitudes of persons who say they suffer no detriment to their morals , by the exhibitions in question , may be rather deficient in delicate moral sensibility . 
Charles , good men have learned that the heart which can not be stormed by open assault of worldliness , may be secretly and effectually sapped by insidious and winning arts . 
But , Charles , men in the gross -- as well as gross men -- are more prone to look to the literal in these sights , than to the metaphorical . 
For myself , Charles , I never read the Poet 's description of that wonderfully moving scene , without the deepest emotion , and sometimes even with tears . 
Charles , how I would entrance you ! 
Dear Charles , -- You say , `` let us turn from Dido to the Temperance Reformation ; '' and , `` that you are on the point of withdrawing your name from the society at Somewhersburg , because that society has forsaken the modesty and simplicity of its first principles , & c. '' Do not , my friend , be hasty in executing that resolve ; although clergymen have sometimes good reason for alarm and indignation : and , therefore , while we regret the withdrawal of many sober and religious persons from us , yet must it be conceded , that such were rather driven away , than that they went voluntarily . 
This censure , Charles , may seem harsh : but some fellows do rave in their speeches , as if other foul spirits had taken possession of the dispossessed as bad nearly as the alcoholic one lately ejected . 
Adieu , Dear Charles , -- Hem ! 
Seriously , Charles , some reformers would almost depose you from the ministry for such a letter -- they would Grahamize you . 
Why , Charles , in here we have , in addition to Sunday lectures in many parts of our purchase , temperance and negro operas ; temperance tableaux ; temperance theatres ; temperance eating-houses , and temperance every thing , and our whole population , in places , is soused head-over-ears in temperance ; and when a wearied chap emerges for an occasional sniffle of air , he drips like a water-spaniel that swims out of a canal with a stick or apple in his mouth . 
Charles , is it surprising that these men should play their antics before the eyes of the world , and then fall away till the last state is worse than the first ? 
Believe me , Charles , it is always perilous to elevate men suddenly above their former selves ; and great folly , when a wanderer returns simply to what he was , to make that return the sole reason for manufacturing , and from the raw material , a prince ! 
But , Charles , notwithstanding these and many other very disagreeable and objectionable matters , I have been a member of a temperance society ; and unless I see reasons stronger than you have advanced , I shall remain a member . 
Dear Charles , -- And so you have resolved to hold on to your temperance society a little longer . 
Charles , I do by no means condemn your clerical brethren for their withdrawment in some places and on some occasions . 
I believe with you , Charles , that it is not demonstrable , from either reason or Scripture , that the temperate use of intoxicating liquors , and especially wine , is wrong per se ; -- and that , not as a medicine merely , but as an occasional beverage . 
Charles , if any meats or drinks are poisonous , and therefore not intended for use at all , of course neither Scripture nor reason allow us to meddle with these . 
Dear Charles , -- You reason in your last on the manner of intercourse with the world , in the main , judiciously ; although exceptions may be taken to some of your inferences . 
Adopt a contrary principle , Charles , and it becomes reductio ad absurdum : and impracticability proves the falsity of a moral as well as of a mathematical proposition . 
Yes , Charles , some of these new lights , were it not for one solitary virtue professed and practised for a consideration , would be shunned by some truly good and pious people of both sexes , because of the many vices they practise without consideration . 
You did right enough , Charles , when you renewed your allegiance to the Temperance Society , to stand on the `` reserved rights . '' 
In many cases , Charles , where a husband , or father , or brother is an inebriate , or sells the forbidden liquors , there the wife and children , the sisters , are among the very best people on earth ; -- and in any sense of the term you choose . 
Charles , these `` rectified spirits '' may use others as opinion serves -- but myself never ! 
Charles , men very frequently deceive themselves in thinking a benevolent regard for morals induces them to these restrictive measures . 
Dear Charles , -- It is well for the dignity of your reverence , that your head was not within arm 's length , when you wrote your ergo -- `` a conservative is the most pugnacious fellow on earth ! '' 
Charles , I apprehend if Granddaddy Thompson , of Hoosier memory , had been within rifle-shot when certain miscreants were stealing towards their victims to violate and to murder , jurors would have been saved the risk of perjury ; and the rescued victims , with their agonized parents and friends , would have thought , as they clasped their deliverer to their hearts , that no harm had been done . 
But , Charles , while we say all this , and are willing and ready to go far , when , with right and justice on our side , either collectively or individually , we strike aggressive or defensive blows to protect life or liberty , yet in all other respects we belong to the peace society . 
I can not , Charles , see the truth , nor feel the force of any arguments drawn from the mere love of national glory and national honor . 
Yes , Charles , our good old relative , Uncle Sam , can afford to wear an old coat or even a shocking bad hat , and to do some things as well as others without fear of disgraceful charges , or with a conviction that such charges will be deemed a silly lie . 
In conclusion , dear Charles , I must express my belief that sentiments like these , when they leak out , render my chance for promotion in the army rather slim : but , perhaps , this will prove no great loss , as we abound in here with conscientious and unconscientious fighting folks numerous as you do out there ; and who go for all Oregon and our country -- rightor wrong!Several of these benevolent heroes , by the way , have drunk so much for the honor of their country and the justice of her claims , as to have acquired noses fiery enough to touch off a cannon ! 
Dear Charles , -- You are determined , then , that I shall `` not touch off a cannon with a loco-foco , or lucifer-nose , and retire from the contest quasivictor -- shouting Io triumphe ! '' 
Now , Charles , sorry am I to say that Uncle Sam sometimes exposes his weak side to the flatterer . 
Charles , believe me , public sentiment and public opinion are , in a vast majority of cases , the private sentiment and opinion of a few , who have most adroitly set these forth as if the one thought of the nation ; and then the nation , finding that a character has been read out for it in the high places of the earth , like any individual fool or grandee , is silly enough , forsooth , to think it must act up to that character ! 
It is really , Charles , uncommonly provoking that a few men -- and these in no sense the best men , and some of them inferior in talents and acquirements -- that a few men should so rule the many , and that the many should appoint the few a kind of thinking committee for the whole , and for that sole reason allow themselves to be led like bullocks to a slaughter-house -- or jackasses to a mill ! 
momentarily , I have thought I couldcharge at the sound of the clarion ; but , in my sober senses , -LRB- and I say it , Charles , without blushing , -RRB- I say , if all Oregon could be mine , that rather than to get or retain it at the price of my children 's blood , poured out on the battle-field , I would sell the whole for a farthing , or give it for the asking . 
But , Charles , I am safe enough in here , and , like some red-hot abolitionists , I choose to show off my valorous sentiments at a safe distance . 
Dear Charles , -- I do not wince under your rebuke , for my conscience acquits me of all intentional irreverence towards our rulers . 
Charles , if a man to whom we confidently intrust our best earthly interests -- our property -- our life -- our sacred honor -- and the lives of our sons and daughters -- yea , and the morals of the community , -- if that man shall disregard his high trust , and , obeying the clamorous voice of passion or interest , shall jeopardize all -- that man deserves to be branded Traitor ! 
Men eagerly aspire after the honor of becoming legislators ; Charles , could they only see the far-reaching consequences of their public conduct , it would seem impossible to take a seat in the public halls of legislation without a deep and solemn awe upon the spirit . 
There , to speak paradoxically , one 's own interest would make him abhor all selfishness . 
And where folly and malevolence do not appear , how very often does the sectional partisan , spouting his grandiloquence for Bunkum , mistake himself for the patriot ! 
-- `` rattling '' only , when he `` thinks he thunders ! '' 
What buffoonery , Charles , can equal that ? 
And the higher the elevation whence he exhibits , the more ridiculous , the more pitiable the sight ! 
Can he be a patriot , Charles , who , under pretext of listening to the voice of the people , advocates measures which he knows are adverse to the best interests of the country ? 
Can he be a wise man who mistakes the clamors of party for the voice of reason ? 
Charles , let them , in the pride of statesmanship and worldly wisdom , lay my honor in the dust -- and let all the lordly train of earth 's sons pass by in the mighty pomp and glorious pageantry of life , deeming me too base for their contempt -- let them all show their deep loathing and disgust as they turn from what is deemed the `` offscouring of this world , '' -- yea ! 
Charles ! 
Dear Charles , -- Granting that your argument is true in part , it surely is not so in all respects . 
What does that mean , Charles ? 
Tell me , Charles , is this liberty or licentiousness ? 
Dear Charles , -- You think I must lately have been ingratiating myself with the lawyers , as formerly with the doctors . 
If , Charles , it be true , as some say , that the literature and habits of a people make the laws , then may we regard law-makers as indices , pointing to the degree in the moral and mental barometer and thermometer of the folk . 
What moves me , Charles , to this little tirade against some of our sapient rulers , is a small pamphlet on my table , sent by a friend ; which pamphlet contains some virulent and official speeches against the regular doctors , at a time when a bill was introduced in favor of the irregulars . 
Why , Charles , he deliberately places quackery and science on a par ! 
and he tosses about the names of Hippocrates , and Boerhaave , and Rush , as if they were Lobelia , or Hydropath , or Smokimdri , or Swetumthro ' !! 
It is said by some that every man has a right to make a fool of himself , -LRB- especially , I suppose , in a free country , -RRB- but then , Charles , there is certainly a choice in the places . 
Dear Charles , -- No , I am not surprised that your mind should be disturbed by certain affirmations in the numerous papers , circulars and pamphlets , rained down so incessantly on you through the medium of the post-office , and which so ferociously advocate the abolition of the death-penalty . 
I think , then , Charles , we need not be disturbed if it is not in our power to show from documents , whether crime have decreased or increased , in some communities and states , where it is alleged capital punishment has been abolished . 
Again , Charles , it is a remarkable fact that great crimes , like diseases and plagues , are every now and then epidemical or endemical , being suddenly increased both in number and intensity , periodically . 
The tempter is always busy with us ; but there are occasions , when his agency is somarked , that by way of eminence it is said , `` the very devil seems to have got into men ! '' 
As for myself , Charles , I have learned that very little confidence is ever to be placed in ex partetestimony . 
Now , Charles , the Bible-men are thevery men that are diligently laboring to bring on that epoch ; and they will be instrumental in abolishing the gallows , by removing its cause . 
-- I quote from one of the pamphlets , Charles . 
`` No cobbler beyond his last , '' Charles ; and hence , without intending an affront to the artisan , or wishing an undue increase of second-rate leather conveniences , the learned doctor had better confine himself to making pegged boots and shoes . 
Purgatory principles , Charles , are not confined to the papists . 
One learned divine across the water , and he no dissenter , has discovered and announced that `` the murderer was put to death under the law , only as a type ! 
Charles , I believe all the points are now gone over , contained in the magazines and circulars lately sent , with a modest and polite request that you would preach at Somewhersburg a sermon in behalf of the `` Benevolent and Humane Fraternity of the No Chokes : '' but if any qualms remain I will try and quiet them in another epistle . 
Dear Charles , -- And why should I guard my words and speak more reverently of mock philanthropy and of pseudopatriots ? 
Do you clergy always weigh your words , and grease your phrases , and pucker up your sentences , in a free conversation , around a host 's table , or at his fireside , at your clerical conventions , during recesses ? 
I tell you , Charles , this is very ungenerous and not a little hypocritical . 
A near inspection will convince you , Charles , that very many who affect to deplore it , are yet secretly pleased with this rebellious state of the age ; and while they prate about expediency and policy , which require the relaxed law , these fellows are inwardly delighted that eternal law can not prevail . 
Depend on it , Charles , this world is at invincible enmity with solemn , sacred , and eternal truth -- it is high , we can not attain unto it ! 
Yes -- I well know the wincing such application of false or anti-gallows doctrines may make in some minds ; yet , Charles , believe me , some hypocritical pseudo-philanthropists secretly designthat such application shall be made , and inwardly chuckle at their successful adroitness ! 
But , Charles , when the voice of a brother 's blood cries to men in vain from the earth , that blood shall be required at their hands , who have , with soft and silken tones of sickly and sentimental philanthropy , said to the murdered , crying thus from the bloody grave ; -- `` Peace , peace , -- cry not thus for vengeance , thou unholy one ! 
Dear Charles , -- `` You wrong me every way . '' 
I repeat again and again , Charles , that I do entirely absolve some ultra folks from all evil intention ; but the cool impertinence of many , and their very modest assumption of all the benevolence , and philanthropy , and virtue , and common sense of the world , is enough to provoke a saint ; and , hence , we ordinary good men can not be wholly unmoved . 
Charles , granting that neither the fear of death , nor of perpetual imprisonment , is any bar to the commission of murder , where men 's moral feelings , sensibilities , and principles are wholly blunted and lost by long habits of wickedness , is there not remaining a great mass of society to be affected by good laws and wholesome examples of severity ? 
But -- why , Charles , we feel indignation now ! 
Charles ! 
Let us , then , Charles , with the old fashioned philanthropists , `` uphold the gallows ; '' whether the oily tongues of puling smoothfacedness say , we are fit for hangmen -- or even , as is likely meant , -- fit to be hanged . 
Dear Charles , -- Yes I am , indeed , grieved ; but I am not surprised to hear that our old acquaintance , Selden , has become an inebriate ! 
Charles , his fall belonged to his new view . 
He had reached that most terrific point in life , whence the world , in its essential nothingness , its colorless nakedness , its insipid staleness , is clearly perceived , as if one saw into its intrinsic emptiness with the eyes of his very soul : -- an hour fraught with infinite peril to a certain class of intellectual men ! 
Occasional glimpses of the world 's vanity are caught through various loopholes and slight rendings in the screen of hope and fancy ; but , in early manhood we can shut our eyes , and , retiring to a more secure part of the gauzy and brilliant and magnificent concealment , can hug ourselves into comfort , as one does in his cushioned seat , near the winter hearth , while tempestuous winds are raging without . 
Charles , I repeat , -- that to some men of certain intellectual habits and peculiar tempers , the hour of full and clear perception of the absolute and essential emptiness in life , is an hour on which hangs heaven or hell ! 
Hence , Charles , the headlong , reckless worldliness and dissipation of these -- hence the sudden and hopeless intemperance -- hence the alarming and seemingly unaccountable self-murder ! 
Charles -- dear Charles ! 
by what mountain pressure of unspeakable woe , and tossed by its frightful tumults , and raging with the fires of an inward hell -- I solemnly tell you , that this advice , well meant as it may be , is a most pitiful mockery!Listen to me , Charles : -- our poor friend Selden must either drinkor die ; or he must , in all the religious sense of the term , choose God for his portion . 
Charles , waste not hisprecious time by pointing our dear friend to the temperance pledge . 
Does he , do you think , need information about the fatal consequences of drinking ? 
I tell you , he is drinking to prevent suicide!Take from Selden , just now , his intoxicating cup -- and unless you can almost instantly give him the Christian 's hope and joy -- he will die by his own hand ! 
But , Charles , when , like the horrible fits of hydrophobia returning after the short calm produced by medicines having power to retard but not to cure ; when the unutterable reality comes again and again , as it will to the sober ; -- then Selden , as many others , if unreconciled to God , mustdrink or die ! 
Charles , I do know , that this philosophy of intemperance and madness and suicide , as to many noble and generous and honorable persons , istrue . 
Charles , had not some faint hope of winning Christ and heaven arisen ! 
Mourn for those inebriates , Charles -- throw your arms around their necks , and pour tears of piteous compassion on their cheeks -- they have seen that sight ! 
Charles , I doknow why some comparatively virtuous persons become on a sudden inebriates ; why some die by their own hands ; and why others become the inmates of a mad-house ! 
Dear Charles , -- It may be that some true Christians , in fits of insanity , have died by their own act . 
But , Charles , there is a melancholy arising from moral causes . 
That , Charles , is the rock , and the only rock , in this wide universe , on which the agitated and gloomy sould can securely stand -- there and there only can the melancholy rest . 
In this way , dear Charles , would I exhort and weep over Selden and all others in his alarming state . 
Read him my letters , and read with tears in your eyes . 
Dear Charles , -- What that unpardonable sin mentioned by our Saviour is , may be difficult , perhaps , to ascertain . 
And I do mean , Charles , to express by these remarks , my own conviction that men do often , with a peculiar wilfulness and deliberation , chooseto turn away from God , from hope , from heaven ! 
Hence , with the moral means of cure , let the best physical remedies and alleviations be promptly and perseveringly tried ; but , Charles , the moral melancholy can not be eradicated except by spiritual means . 
-- that , Charles , creates the moral melancholy , and renders the soul dark as the very shades of death ! 
To myself , Charles , the morally melancholy man is an object of intense interest ; for , having been in that furnace , I seein his spirit an awful battle between light and darkness ! 
His soul is an arena , where heaven and hell are struggling for victory ! 
And he , at times , is as keenly pierced as if he felt a burning arrow , a `` fiery dart '' in his breast ! 
Dear Charles , -- You are pleased to say that `` such thoughts ought to be preached . '' 
Were the sacred desk my station , as it is yours , Charles , then would I strive to preach as I write ; but why may not private Christians writeand talkpreaching , while the clergy preachpreaching ? 
Were it in my power , Charles , -LRB- but it is in no human power , -RRB- -- were it in my power , by any art or contrivance , to show our neighbors the full meaning , or the meaning as far as careful Christians do often perceive , and which is conveyed to their minds in such scriptural sayings as these , `` the Lord 's freemen , '' `` the glorious liberty of the sons of God ; '' oh ! 
Why , Charles , it is , strictly , an honor , a privilege , a liberty , a delight , a favor to serve God ! 
Charles , while `` our most holy religion '' is not -- as Hume to the contrary sneeringly affirms -- is notfounded on faith in opposition to reason , still a spiritual capacity is indispensable to the perception , and a spiritual taste to the enjoyment of spiritual truths . 
If such hints in any of my letters , Charles , can aid in constructing your sermons , use them ; it will not be plagiarism . 
Dear Charles , -- It is , indeed , a mistake made by many good men , and especially by young men , that God can be served only in religious ways . 
Charles , it is possible , however , to glorify God in all we do , and to walk closely with God in all the lawful duties of a secular life . 
These words are often in our mouth , Charles , when not in our hearts ; but the `` secret of the Lord , '' in this , as well as in all other spiritual matters , is `` with those that fear Him . '' 
Dear Charles ! 
Let us apply these general remarks , Charles , to a special case ; and although such an illustration may make you smile , perhaps it may notwithstanding do you good . 
Dear Charles , -- Of course I rejoice with you at the completion of your `` New Church ; '' but , alas ! 
Friend Charles ! 
A large number of folks , and very clever folks too , care no more for the sacred or charitable object , than they do for your humble servant , Charles . 
Far from me any double-refined morality , such as refusing voluntary gifts from our worldly friends , generously bestowed for religious uses : but , Charles , I do most earnestly contend that such gifts ought to be wholly voluntary -- they must not be wormedout by tortuous and torturing expedients . 
Charles , it can not be that worldly men think any the better of Christianity by these indirections in the accomplishment of religious purposes : although many may like sufficiently well the opportunity of a church fair , for buying one sort of kisses and stealing others . 
Dear Charles , -- You pretend I ridicule for the want of better argument ! 
Charles , like ambition , Christian charity `` should be made of sterner stuff ; '' in other words , it must be a principle . 
I shall , however , say no more on the subject , Charles ; yet do not too hastily conclude that I `` have exhausted all my sarcasm ; '' we could contrive to `` bring out of our treasury things new and old , '' in that way , if you are not satisfied . 
Dear Charles , -- I readily admit that `` the abuse of a goodthing is no valid argument against its use ; '' yet , if by showing the ridiculous character of the abuse we prevent that abuse at least , we render some service to the cause of religion . 
Charles , you are exempted from military duties , and from serving on juries ; -- why ? 
Can you not , Charles , preach a funeral sermon when a stranger dies in your neighborhood , without inquiring whether he be or be not a member of some assurance or insurance society ? 
I know , indeed , that you have repeatedly officiated on these mournful occasions , when the deceased was a stranger and far from home ; but I know , too , Charles , that neither you nor your friends published the fact in the village papers . 
Charles , there is a perverse propensity in man `` to seek out inventions ; '' some neglect the gospel morality , and some despise it , and others are led away by the deafening clamors of an obliqe philanthropy , which having laid its egg knows how to cackle over it . 
Dear Charles , -- I am not censorious ; and yet it is probable enough my sentiments might subject me to the charge of being over-nice and bigoted . 
From time to time , Charles , I have furnished sixteen reasons for my `` intolerable censoriousness '' in statements and opinions ; if you persist in your abusive letters I shall certainly punish you with sixteen more . 
Dear Charles , -- You are absolutely provoking ! 
Charles ! 
But , Charles , I do not wholly condemn choir singing . 
Use this opinion , Charles , if it can avail you any thing . 
Dear Charles , -- `` In haste '' -- no doubt . 
Charles ? 
Dear Charles , -- Mr. Keen is certainly a keener ! 
They were done in the past times -- before the dark hour , Charles ! 
Dear Charles , -- `` Mr. Keen says the Flag is tolerable ! '' 
Dear Charles , -- Keen is hypercritical . 
He wishes to know if `` sweet '' is the author 's favorite epithet , and if the author thinks it renders his verses `` luscious ? '' 
Dear Charles , -- I am glad your critical friend likes the `` spirit '' of the last articles . 
