Ernest Clay was dressed to walk to Marlborough street to apply for his `` guinea-a-page '' in advance , and find out the concluding word of his MS. , when there was heard a footman 's rap at the street door . 
`` You can take me , '' said Clay , spreading out his hands in an attitude of surrender , `` when and where you please ; but I was going to my publisher 's . '' 
The chariot-steps rattled down , and his foot was on the crimson carpet , when a plain family carriage suddenly turned out of Grosvenor square , and pulled up as near his own door as the obstruction permitted . 
Ernest changed color slightly , and Lady Mildred , after a glance through the window behind her , stamped her little foot and said `` Come ! '' 
was his insufficient apology as he sprang to the window of the other carriage , and with a manner almost infantile in its cordial simplicity , expressed his delight at meeting the two ladies who sat within . 
`` Have you set up a chariot , Ernest ? '' 
said the younger , laying her hand upon the dark mass of curls on his temple , and pushing his head gently back that she might see what equipage stopped the way . 
He hesitated a moment , but there was no escape from the truth . 
The question was asked by the elder lady with a look that expressed a painfully sad wish to hear him answer , `` No . '' 
While he hesitated , the more forgiving voice next him hurriedly broke the silence . 
`` We are forgetting our errand , Ernest . 
The heavy vehicle rolled away , and Ernest crushed the note in his hand unread , and with a slower step than suited the impatience of Lady Mildred , returned to the chariot . 
The coachman , with that mysterious instinct that coachmen have , let fall his silk upon the backs of his spirited horses , and drove in time with his master 's quickened pulses ; and at the corner of Chesterfield street , as the family carriage rolled slowly on its way to Howell and James 's -LRB- on an errand connected with bridal pearls -RRB- , the lofty-stepping bays of Lady Mildred dashed by as if all the anger and scorn of a whole descent of coronets were breathing from their arched nostrils . 
But of all the wise and worldly , gentle and simple , who had ever crossed the path of Ernest Clay , the same child-like girl was the only creature to whom he appeared utterly himself -- for whom he wore no disguise -- to whose plummet of simple truth he opened the seldom-sounded depths of his prodigal and passionate heart . 
Lady Mildred knew his weaknesses and his genius . 
Eve Gore knew his better and brighter nature . 
And both loved him . 
Of the scores of people who knew him and his companion as London celebrities , and who followed the showy equipage with their eyes , how many , think you , looked on Mr. Ernest Clay as a misappreciated man ? 
`` Ernest , '' said Lady Mildred , as the chariot sped from the publisher 's door , and took its way to the Park , `` you are grown ceremonious . 
Clay placed the crushed letter in her hand . 
`` Hear me before you condemn , dear Lady Mildred , '' passionately exclaimed Ernest , as she clasped her hands over the letter and her tears fell fast upon them : `` I was wrong to leave the discovery of this to chance -- I should have dealt more frankly with you -- indeed , if I had had the opportunity -- '' Lady Mildred looked up , as if to reproach him for the evasion half uttered . 
`` You are frank , '' said his pale listener , who had recovered her self-possession , and seemed bent now , as usual , only on listening and entering into his feelings . 
`` I would be so , indeed , '' he resumed ; `` but I have not yet come to my confession . 
`` Such as your love , do you mean , Ernest ? '' 
`` You are ungrateful , Ernest ! '' 
Lady Mildred , as I have said before , was an admirer of genius , and though Ernest was excusing an infidelity to herself , the novelty of his distinctions opened to her a new chapter in the book of love , and she was interested far beyond resentment . 
He was talking from his heart , too , and every one who has listened to a murmur of affection , knows what sweetness the breathings of those deeper veins of feeling infuse into the voice . 
A smile stole through her lips instead of the reproach and anger that he expected . 
`` I do not answer you , my dear Ernest , for the same reason I would not tear a leaf out of one of your books unread . 
Why , my dear Ernest , your whole income would not suffice for the half . 
Lady Mildred had been too much accustomed to the management of men , not to leave Ernest , after this homily , to his own thoughts . 
A woman of less knowledge and tact would have followed up this argument with an appeal to his feelings . 
But beside that , she wished the seed she had thus thrown into his mind to germinate with thought . 
Ernest sat silent , with his eyes cast musingly down to the corner of the chariot , where the smallest foot and prettiest chaussure conceivable was playing with the tassel of the window-pull ; and reserving her more effective game of feeling for the evening , when they were to meet at Mrs. R -- 's , she set him down at his clubhouse with a calm and cold adieu , and drove home to bathe , dine alone , sleep , and refresh body and spirit for the struggle against love and Eve Gore . 
On the heels of Ernest , and named with the next breath of the menial 's lips , came the bearer of a title laden with the emblazoned honors of descent . 
Had he en tered a hall of statuary , he could not have been less regarded . 
All eyes were on the pale forehead and calm lips that had entered before him ; and the blood of the warrior who made the name , and of the statesmen and nobles who had borne it , and the accumulated honor and renown of centuries of unsullied distinctions -- all these concentrated glories in the midst of the most polished and discriminating circle on earth , paled before the lamp of yesterday , burning in the eye of genius . 
Clay 's walk through the sumptuous rooms of Mrs. R -- was like a Roman triumph . 
He was borne on from lip to lip -- those before him anticipating his greeting , and those he left , still sending their bright and kind words after him . 
He breathed incense . 
Suddenly , behind him , he heard the voice of Eve Gore . 
She was making the tour of the rooms on the arm of a friend , and following Ernest , had insensibly tried to get nearer to him , and had become flushed and troubled in the effort . 
They had never before met in a large party , and her pride , in the universal attention he attracted , still more flushed her eyelids and injured her beauty . 
She gave him her hand as he turned ; but the greeting that sprang to her lips was checked by a sudden consciousness that many eyes were on her , and she hesitated , murmured some broken words , and was silent . 
The immediate attention that Clay had given to her , interrupted at the same moment the undertoned murmur around him , and there was a minute 's silence , in which the inevitable thought flashed across his mind that he had overrated her loveliness . 
Still the trembling and clinging clasp of her hand , and the appealing earnestness of her look , told him what was in her heart -- and when was ever genius ungrateful for love ! 
Clay had given her his arm , and resumed his barter of compliment with the crowd , and with it a manner she had never before seen . 
He had been a boy , fresh , frank , ardent , and unsuspicious , at Annesley Park . 
She saw him now in the cold and polished armor of a man who has been wounded as well as flattered by the world , and who presents his shield even to a smile . 
With a clouded brow , thoughtful and silent , Eve Gore sat with her mother in a recess near the entrance , and Clay , who had kept near them , though their conversation had long since languished , stood in the centre of a small group of fashionable men , much more brilliant and far louder in his gayety than he would have been with a heart at ease . 
Lady Mildred laid her small hand on Clay 's , and with a smile , but no greeting else , passed on . 
Purity was the effect she had produced -- purity in contrast with the flowers in the room -- purity -LRB- Ernest Clay felt and wondered at it -RRB- , even in contrast with Eve Gore ! 
Mr. Clay -- Ernest -- will see , perhaps , if our carriage is here . '' 
Day was dawning , and Ernest had need of solitude and thought . 
He crossed to the park , and strode off through the wet grass , bathing his forehead with handfuls of dew . 
the fevered eyes and pallid lips he had last seen were less in harmony with the calm stillness of the dawn than the vision his conscience whispered him was charmed for his destruction . 
As the cool air brought back his reason , he remembered Eve 's embarrassed address and his wearisome and vain efforts to amuse her . 
He remembered her mother 's reproving eye , her own colder utterance of his name , and then in powerful relief came up the pictures he had brooded on since his conversation in the chariot with Lady Mildred , visions of self-denial and loss of caste opposed to the enchantments of passion without restraint or calculation , and his head and heart became wild with conflicting emotions . 
He must decide now . 
He must speak to Eve Gore before parting , and in the tone of his voice , if it were but a word , there must be that which her love would interpret as a bright promise or a farewell . 
He turned back . 
At the gate of the park stood one of the guilty wanderers of the streets , who seized him by the sleeve and implored charity . 
exclaimed Clay , scarce knowing what he uttered . 
Ernest stood still as if his better angel had spoken through those painted lips . 
He gasped with the weight that rose slowly from his heart ; and purchasing his release from the unfortunate wretch who had arrested his steps , he crossed slowly to the door crowded with the menials of the gay throng within . 
Clay drew back to let her pass ; but while he looked into her face , it became radiant with the happiness of meeting him , and the temptation to join her seemed irresistible . 
She entered the room , followed by her gay suite , and last of all by Ernest , who saw with the first glance at the Gores that he was believed to have been with her during the half-hour that had elapsed . 
He approached Eve ; but the sense of an injustice he could not immediately remove , checked the warm impulse with which he was coming to pour out his heart , and against every wish and feeling of his soul , he was constrained and cold . 
Eve Gore suddenly laid her hand on his arm , as if a spirit had whispered that her last chance for happiness was poised on that moment 's lapse . 
`` Ernest , '' she said , in a voice so unnaturally low that it made his veins creep with the fear that her reason was unseated , `` I am lost if you go with her . 
Stay , dear Ernest ! 
I implore you remember that my life -- my life -- '' `` Beg pardon , '' said Lord George , laying his hand familiarly on Clay 's shoulder , and drawing him away , `` Lady Mildred waits for you ! '' 
`` I will return in an instant , dearest Eve , '' he said , springing again to her side , `` I will apologize and be with you . 
`` She is surely ill , '' said Lord George ; `` jump in , Clay , my fine fellow . 
Clay lifted her head and spoke to her , but receiving no answer , he busied himself chafing her hands , and the carriage-blinds being drawn , he thought momently he should be rid of his charge by their arrival in Grosvenor square . 
But the minutes elapsed , and still the carriage sped on ; and surprised at last into suspicion , he raised his hand to the checkstring , but the small fingers he had been chafing so earnestly arrested his arm . 
said Lady Mildred , rising from his shoulder , and throwing her arms passionately around his neck , `` you must go blindfold , and go with me ! 
Ernest ! 
Ernest ! '' 
she continued , as he struggled an instant to reach the string ; but he felt her tears on his breast , and his better angel ceased to contend with him . 
He sank back in the chariot with those fragile arms wound around him , and , with fever in his brain , and leaden sadness at his heart , suffered that swift chariot to speed on its guilty way . 
In a small maison de plaisance , which he well knew , in one of the most romantic dells of Devon , built with exquisite taste by Lady Mildred , and filled with all that art and wealth could minister to luxury , Ernest Clay passed the remainder of the summer , forgetful of everything beyond his prison of pleasure , except a voice full of bitter remorse , which sometimes , in the midst of his abandonment , whispered the name of Eve Gore . 
It was verging toward noon , and , startled from a dream of music , by the entrance of a servant , Ernest Clay drew back the heavy bed-curtains and looked irresolutely around his luxurious chamber . 
The letter -- began as a mystification , or , if it had an object beyond the amusement of an idle hour , intended as a whimsical revenge for Miss Beverley 's preference of a rich husband to her then undistinguished admirer -- had , in the heat of composition , and quite unconsciously to Clay , enlisted real feelings , totally disconnected with the fair Julia , but not the less easily fused into shape and probability by the facile alchymy of genius . 
The minister presented his friend , and Clay forgot their errand in admiration of the magnificent brigand face and figure of the painter , who , after a cold salutation , retreated into the darkest corner of the point of view , and stood gazing past them at his easel , silent and unconscious of observation . 
`` I have seen your wonder , '' said Clay , turning to the picture with a smile , and at the first glance only remarking its resemblance to a face that should be familiar to him . 
The painter was absorbed in his picture , and Clay turned to the ambassador . 
Clay lost himself in the picture and was silent . 
Veil after veil fell away from the expression as he gazed , and the woman seemed melting out from the canvass into life . 
It was a less woman incomparably painted ; and man to fall in love with a semblance , Clay struggled in vain against the feeling , that the drawn in that portrait controlled the next and the most eventful revolution of his many - istence . 
The next five hours have -LRB- for this tale -RRB- no `` I have perplexed myself in vain since I Clay said to the ambassador , as they rolled way to the palace of the fair Englishwoman when I yield to the secret conviction that I the adorable original of the picture , I am greater mystery -- how I ever could have The coming five minutes will undo the for me . '' 
An opening was made through the ambassador 's name was announced , and Clay him through the brilliant rooms with an which he had long been a stranger . 
Taste , as sumptuous expensiveness , was stamped thing around , and there was that indefinable sion in the assembly , which no one could appreciate better than Clay , and which is among other things , of a perfect conviction part of the guests , that their time , presence , probation , are well bestowed where they are . 
asked the as Clay stood like a man fixed to marble , listening . 
If she do not know if she has not -- '' he would have said `` but the look of scrutiny and surprise on the of the ambassador checked the avowal , and he became aware that he was on dangerous ground . 
The ambassador looked at Clay . 
`` Welcome , Ernest ! '' 
A crown for the poet of my country , Ernest Clay ! '' 
`` Clay , the poet ! '' 
were explanations that ran quickly through the room , and as the crowd pressed closer around , murmuring the enthusiasm native to that southern clime , Julia Beverley sprang upon an ottoman , and standing in her magnificent beauty conspicuous above all , she placed the crown upon Clay 's head , and bending gracefully and smilingly over him , impressed a kiss on his forehead , and said , `` This for the poet ! '' 
Surrounded with eager claimants for his acquaintance , intoxicated with flattery , giddy with indefinable emotions of love and pleasure , Ernest Clay lost sight for a moment of the face that had beamed on him , and in that moment she had made an apology of fatigue and retired , leaving her guests to their pleasures . 
Clay 's memory had now become the home of an all-absorbing passion . 
By a succession of mischances , or by management so adroit as never to alarm his pride , a week passed over , and he had found no opportunity of speaking alone to the object of his adoration . 
She favored him in public , talked to him at the opera , leaned on his arm in the crowd , caressed his genius with exquisite flattery , and seemed at moments to escape narrowly from a phrase too tender or a subject that would lead to the past -- yet without a violation of the most palpable tact , love was still an impossible topic . 
That he could have held her hand in his , unforbidden -- that he could have pressed her to his bosom while she wept -- that she could have loved him ever , though but for an hour -- seemed to him sometimes an incredible dream , sometimes a most passionate happiness only to believe . 
He left her at night to pace the sands of the bay till morning , remembering -- for ever remembering -- the scene by the fountain at Florence ; and he passed his day between her palace and the picture of poor Incontri , who loved her more hopelessly than himself , but found a sympathy in the growing melancholy of the poet . 
`` She has no heart , '' said the painter ; but Clay had felt it beat against his own , and he fed his love in silence on that remembrance . 
At a little distance lay the swallow-like yacht , in which Clay had threaded the Archipelago , and as the wish to feel the little craft bounding once more beneath him , was checked by the anchor-like heaviness of his heart , an equestrian party stopped suddenly on the chiaja . 
Without waiting for a repetition of the wish he had overheard , Clay sprang upon a rock , and made signal for the boat , and before the crimson of the departing day had faded from the sky , the fair Julia and her party of cavaliers , were standing on the deck of the swift vessel , bound on a moonlight voyage to Sorrento , and watching on their lee the reddening ribs and lurid cruption of the volcano . 
Incontri leaned against the mast , watching the moonlit features of the signora with his melancholy but idolizing gaze , and Clay lay on the deck at her feet , trying with pressed-down lids to recall the tearful eyes of the Julia Beverley he had loved at the fountain . 
It was midnight when the breath of the orange groves of Sorrento , stealing seaward , slackened the way of the little craft , and running in close under the rocky foundations of the house of Tasso , Clay dropped his anchor , and landed his silent party at their haven . 
Incontri was sent forward to the inn to prepare their apartments , and leaning on Clay 's arm and her husband 's , the superb Englishwoman ascended to the overhanging balcony of the dwelling of the Italian bard , and in a few words of eloquent sympathy in the homage paid by the world to these shrines of genius , added to the overflowing heart of her gifted lover one more intoxicating drop of flattery and fascination . 
The sea had long closed over the orbed forehead of the moon , and still Clay restlessly hovered around the garden of the inn . 
The hand moved from the cheek , and raised a pencil from the table , and wrote upon the margin of the volume , and then the pencil was laid down , and the slender fingers raised the masses of fallen hair from the shoulder , and threaded the wavy ringlets indolently as she read : From the slightest motion of that statuary hand , from the most fragmented outline of that bird-like neck , Clay would have known Julia Beverley ; and as he watched her graceful shadow , the repressed and pent-up feelings of that evening of restraint , fed as they had been by every voluptuous influence known beneath the moon , rose to a height that absorbed brain and soul in one wild tumult of emotion . 
He sprang to his feet to rush into her presence , but at that instant a footstep started from the darkness of a tree , at the extremity of the alley . 
He paused and the shadow arose , and laying aside the book , leaned back , and lifted the tapering arms , and wound up the long masses of fallen hair , and then kneeling , remained a few minutes motionless , with the face buried in the hands . 
Clay trembled and felt rebuked . 
Clay walked to and fro in an agitation bordering on delirium . 
he said , murmuring audibly , and advancing toward the window . 
But hurried footsteps started again from the shadow of the pine , and he stopped to listen . 
All was silent , and he stood a moment pressing his hands on his brow , and trying to struggle with the wild impulse in his brain . 
His closed eyes brought back instantly the unfading picture of Julia Beverley , weeping on his breast at the fountain , and with one rapid movement he divided the curtains and stood breathless in her chamber . 
he exclaimed in a hoarse whisper , `` I am here -- Ernest Clay ! '' 
`` You are frantic , Ernest ! '' 
said Clay , dropping the curtain behind him , and advancing into the room , `` wake your husband if you will -- this is the only spot on earth where I can breathe , and if you are relentless , here will I die ! 
`` Ernest ! '' 
Vesuvius was burning with an almost smokeless flame when Clay stood again in the night-air , and every object was illuminated with the clearness of a conflagration . 
At the first glance around , he fancied he saw figures gliding behind the lurid body of a pine opposite the window , but in the next moment the curtain again parted , and Julia Beverley , wrapped in a cloak , stood beside him on the verandah . 
she said , as he endeavored to put his arm around her , `` I have more than one defender within call , and I must speak to you where I am . 
Will you listen to me , Ernest ? '' 
Clay 's breast heaved ; but he folded his arms and leaned against the slender column of the verandah in silence . 
But I wish to show to you , Ernest , not only that you can have no hope in loving me , but that you have made me the mischievous woman I have become . 
said Clay , whose pride was aroused with the calm self-possession and repulse of her tone and manner . 
said Clay , who remembered at the instant only the whim under which it was written . 
`` It awoke me to a new existence , '' she continued , without heeding his confusion , `` for it first made me aware that I could ever be the theme of eloquent admiration . 
That letter , Ernest -- '' `` You believed that I loved you then ! '' 
coldly asked Clay . 
Set it down in your books , Ernest -- we are our own nomenclators -- the belle as well as the hero ! 
Oh , Ernest ! 
Clay smiled at the abrupt naiveté of the question , but his eyes were full of visible admiration of the glowing pictures before him . 
was his answer . 
Shall I be celebrated hereafter , Ernest ? 
If you loved me , Ernest -- '' `` If you loved me , Julia ! '' 
echoed Clay , with a tone rather of mockery than sincerity . 
Believe me , Ernest , there never was a coquette , who , in some one of her earlier preferences , had not made a desperate and single venture of her whole heart 's devotion . 
Did you even ask me to run away with you , Ernest ! 
`` Not of flesh-and-blood women , Ernest ! 
answered Clay , drawing on his gloves with the air of a man who has got through with an interview . 
`` To-night excepted , '' said Clay , looking around . 
Clay started and frowned , as the painter sprang from the shadow of the pine-tree which had before attracted his attention . 
Falling on his knee , the unhappy lover kissed the jewelled fingers extended to him , and giving Clay his hand in rising , the poet sprang back , for he had clapsed the handle of a stiletto ! 
said Incontri , remarking his surprise , and concealing the weapon in his sleeve . 
`` I was destined to be cured of my love , either way , '' said Clay , bowing himself off the verandah with half a shudder and half a smile . 
The curtain closed at the same moment over the retreating form of Julia Beverley , and so turned another leaf of Clay 's voluminous book of love . 
Clay threw the volume aside , in which he had been reading , and taking up `` the red book , '' looked for the county address of Sir Harry Freer , the exponent -LRB- only -RRB- of Lady Fanny Freer , who , though the `` nicest possible creature , '' is not the heroine of this story . 
As my autograph sells for eighteen pence , you will excuse the brevity of Lady Fanny was a warm-hearted , extravagant beautiful creature of impulse , a passionate friend of Clay 's -LRB- for such women there are -RRB- , without a spice of flirtation . 
She was a perennial belle in London ; and he had begun his acquaintance with her by throwing himself at her head in the approved fashion -- in love to the degree of rose-asking and sonnet-writing . 
As she did not laugh when he sighed , however , but only told him very seriously that she was not a bit in love with him , and thought he was throwing away his time , he easily forgave her insensibility , and they became very warm allies . 
Spoiled favorite as he was of London society , Clay had qualities for a very sincere friendship ; and Lady Fanny , full of irregular talent , had also a strong vein of common sense , and perfectly understood him . 
As the London coach rattled under the bridged gate of the gloomy old town of Chester , Lady Fanny 's dashing ponies were almost on their haunches with her impetuous pull-up at the hotel ; and returning with a nod the coachman 's respectful bow , she put her long whip in at the coach window to shake hands with Clay , and in a few minutes they were again off the pavements , and taking the road at her ladyship 's usual speed . 
-LRB- she ran on , talking to Clay , and her ponies in the same breath -RRB- . 
-- very good of you to come , I 'm sure , dear Ernest , and you 'll stay ; how long will you stay ? 
There 's good action , Ernest ! 
Look at that nigh pony ; not a blemish in him ; and such a goer in single harness ! 
interrupted Clay deprecatingly , `` eighteen hours in a coach . '' 
asked Clay , with a concern which made Lady Fanny turn her eyes from her ponies ' ears to look at him . 
More to quell a vague and apprehensive feeling of remorse than to wile away idle time , Clay passed the reins back to the stripling in gray livery behind , and walked round Lady Fanny 's ponies , expressing his admiration of them and the turnout altogether . 
Ah , Clay ! 
Lady Fanny 's tears rained upon her two hands as she let out her impatient horses to be sooner at home , and , in half an hour , Clay was alone in his luxurious quarters , under Sir Harry 's roof , with two hours to dinner , and more than thoughts enough , and very sad ones , to make him glad of time and solitude . 
Freer Hall was full of company -- Sir Harry 's company -- and Clay , with the quiet assurance of a London star , used to the dominant , took his station by Lady Fanny on entering the drawing-room , and when dinner was announced , gave her his arm , without troubling himself to remember that there was a baronet who had claim to the honor , and of whom he must simply make a mortal enemy . 
At table , the conversation ran mainly in Sir Harry 's vein , hunting , and Clay did not even take the listener 's part ; but , in a low tone , talked of London to Lady Fanny -- her ladyship -LRB- unaccountably to her husband and his friends , who were used to furnish her more merriment than revery -RRB- pensive and out of spirits . 
With the announcement of coffee in the drawing-room , Clay disappeared with her , and their evening was tête-a-tête , for Sir Harry and his friends were three-bottle men , and commonly bade good-night to ladies when the ladies left the table . 
Regularly , morning and afternoon , the high stepping ponies were ordered round , and Lady Fanny -LRB- with Mr. Clay for company to the gate -RRB- visited the Beaufins , now against positive orders from the irate Sir Harry , and daily , Clay 's reserve with his beautiful hostess increased , and his distress of mind with it , for both he and she were alarmed with the one piece of unexplained intelligence between them -- Miss Beaufin would see Mr. Clay when she should be dying ! 
Not before -- for worlds not before -- and of the physician constantly in attendance -LRB- Lady Fanny often present -RRB- , Clay knew that the poor girl besought with an eagerness , to the last degree touching and earnest , to know when hope could be given over . 
Sir Harry and his friends were in the billiard-room , and Lady Fanny and Clay breakfasting together , when a note was brought in by one of the footmen , who waited for an answer . 
There was no need of explanation to Clay ; he understood the note and its meaning . 
Wrap well up , Ernest ! '' 
The butler looked inquisitively at Clay and his mistress , but both were preoccupied , and in ten minutes the rapid phaeton was on its way , the ponies pressing on the bit as if the eagerness of the two hearts beating behind them was communicated through the reins , and Lady Fanny , contrary to her wont , driving in unencouraging silence . 
They followed him into the little parlor , where Clay was presented by Lady Fanny to the mother of Miss Beaufin , a singularly yet sadly sweet woman in voice , person , and address ; to the old , white-haired vicar , and to the physician , who returned his bow with a cold and very formal salute . 
Clay 's heart beat violently . 
Clay paid her his tribute with the rest -- the hundred who flattered and followed her ; but she was a proud girl , and though he seized every opportunity of being near her , nothing in her manner betrayed to him that he was not counted among the hundred . 
Her features were of that slight mould which shows sickness by little except higher transparency of the blue veins , and brighter redness in the lips , and as she smiled with suffused cheek , and held out her gloved hand to Clay , with a vain effort to articulate , he passed his hands across his eyes and looked inquiringly at his friend . 
He had expected , though he had never realized , that she would be altered . 
She looked almost as he had left her . 
He remembered her only as he had oftenest seen her -- dressed for ball or party , and but for the solemnity of the preparation he had gone through , he might have thought his feelings had been played upon only ; that Blauch Beaufin was well -- still beautiful and well ; that he should again see her in the brilliant circles of London ; still love her as he secretly did , and receive what he now felt would be under any circumstances a gift of Heaven , the assurance of a return . 
This and a world of confused emotion , tumultuously and in an instant , rushed through his heart ; for there are moments in which we live lives of feeling and thought ; moments , glances , which supply years of secret or bitter memory . 
It is the system , the necessary system of the class to which Clay belonged , to turn adroitly and gayly off every shaft to the heart ; to take advantage of no opening to affection ; to smother all preference that would lead to an interchange of hallowed vows ; to profess insensibility equally polished and hardened on the subject of pure love ; to forswear marriage , and make of it a mock and an impossibility . 
-- Ernest ! '' 
said the now pale creature , breaking the silence with a strong effort , for he had dropped on his knee at her side in ungovernable emotion , and , as yet , had but articulated her name -- `` Ernest ! 
Lady Fanny Freer rose and came to her with rapid steps , and Clay sprang to his feet , and in a passion of tears exclaimed , `` Oh God ! 
Tell me , Ernest ! 
A passionate gesture to Lady Fanny was all the answer Clay could make , and in another moment the aged vicar was in the chamber , with her parents and the physician , to all of whom a few words explained a mystery which her bridal attire had already half unravelled . 
Blanch spoke quickly -- `` Shall he proceed , Ernest ? '' 
Her prayer-book was open on her knee , and Clay gave it to the vicar , who , with a quick sense of sympathy , and with but a glance at the weeping and silent parents , read without delay the hallowed ceremonial . 
Clay 's countenance elevated and cleared as he proceeded , and Blanch , with her large suffused eyes fixed on his , listened with a smile , serene , but expressive of unspeakable rapture . 
One instant of embarrassment occurred , unobserved by the dying bride , but , with the thoughtfulness of womanly generosity , Lady Fanny had foreseen it , and , drawing off her own wedding-ring , she passed it into Ernest 's hand ere the interruption became apparent . 
Till then , Clay had felt almost in a dream . 
The vicar joined their hands with the solemn adjuration , `` Those whom God hath joined together let no man put asunder ; '' and Clay rose from his knees , and pressing his first kiss upon her lips , strained her passionately to his heart . 
she cried , giving way at last to her tears , as she closed her slight arms over his neck ; `` mine in heaven ! 
Press me to your heart , Ernest ! 
The physician sprang forward and laid his hand upon her pulse . 
Life is full of sudden transitions ; and the next event in that of Ernest Clay , was a duel with Sir Harry Freer -- if the Morning Post was to be believed -- `` occasioned by the indiscretion of Lady Fanny , who , in a giddy moment , it appears , had given to her admirer , Sir Harry 's opponent , her wedding-ring ! '' 
`` By the thrill in my veins we have met before , '' said Clay ; `` but whether this involuntary sensation was pleasurable or painful , I have not yet decided . 
He added the last few words after a moment 's pause , and sadly . 
Clay was humane , and a lover of nature -- a poet , that is to say -- and , in a world so beautiful , could never be a prey to disgust ; but he was satiated with the common emotions of life . 
His heart , for ever overflowing , had filled many a cup with love , but with strange tenacity he turned back for ever to the first . 
He was weary of the beginnings of love -- weary of its probations and changes . 
He had passed the period of life when inconstancy was tempting . 
He longed now for an affection that would continue into another world -- holy and pure enough to pass a gate guarded by angels . 
And his first love -- recklessly as he had thrown it away -- was now the thirst of his existence . 
Clay and the Freyherr Von Leisten , each in his apartment , were awake , unwilling to lose the luxury of the night . 
And there was one other under that roof waking , with her eyes fixed on the moon . 
As Clay leaned his head on his hand , and looked outward to the sky , his heart began to be troubled . 
There was a point in the path of the moon 's rays where his spirit turned back . 
There was an influence abroad in the dissolving moonlight around him which resistlessly awakened the past -- the sealed but unforgotten past . 
He could not single out the emotion . 
He knew not whether it was fear or hope -- pain or pleasure . 
He called , through the open window , to Von Leisten . 
Clay and Von Leisten had retired from the active passions of life together , and had met and mingled at that moment of void and thirst when each supplied the want of the other . 
Clay was his superior , perhaps , in genius , and necessity had driven him to develop the type of his inner soul , and leave its impress on the time . 
But he was inferior to Von Leisten in the power of will , and he lay in his control like a child in its mother 's . 
Von Leisten had lost , by death , the human altar on which his heart could alone burn the incense of love ; and Clay had flung aside in an hour of intoxicating passion the one pure affection in which his happiness was sealed -- and both were desolate . 
Ernest knelt beside her , and with his invisible brow bowed upon her hand , poured forth , in the voiceless language of the soul , his memories of the past , his hope , his repentance , his pure and passionate adoration at the present hour . 
* * * It was with implacable determination that Mrs. Gore refused , to the entreaties of Von Leisten , a renewal of Clay 's acquaintance with her daughter . 
An hour elapsed , and Clay entered the house . 
He had risen from a bed of sickness , and came , pale and in terror -- for the spirit-summons was powerful . 
But Von Leisten welcomed him at the door with a smile , and withdrew the mother from the room , and left Ernest alone with his future bride -- the first union , save in spirit , after years of separation . 
It would have taken the statesmanship and eloquence of Clay or Webster to have made the discussion at all endurable to congress , and we are quite sure that it will be ten years before the public irritation against English travellers and critics will have sufficiently abated to tolerate any measure in their favor . 
This brought about the sober second thought , and we turned it over somewhat as follows : -- Of the allowed Upper Triumvirate of this country -- Clay , Jackson , and Adams -- the peaceful good name of the first is , just now , closed for history , by his willing relinquishment of public action . 
He was not , like Clay and Jackson , great in spite of the impassioned nature for which we -LRB- so inconsistently -RRB- , love the man and disclaim his greatness . 
