I was bound ` prentice by the name o ' Ralph Jones , but the boys calls me Jonesey the B'iler , 'cause I runs with the ` Fairy , ' and am high on a bust . 
cried Ralph as he shook the Dry Goods Man as you would shake a coat that has been hanging for a long while in a dusty closet ; `` and talk of Law -- do you ? 
Every time he repeated the word , his fist descended upon some part of Bung 's handsome visage , now skirmishing about the cheeks , now mounting to the forehead , and last of all , thundering upon the Roman nose . 
When Ralph released his hold of the Dry Goods man , he darted into the shadows of the Court , as though animated by a sudden thought . 
One shines from the home of the Millerite Preacher , where Ralph stood a few moments past begging for somebody to pray with a dying woman . 
Taking up his broad-rimmed hat , and brandishing his cane , the grave gentleman sallied forth , and soon his fair top-boots terminated their journey at a carpenter shop , where a hardy young man was industriously working . 
In yonder house the Millerite dwells ; there , a little farther on , where a dim light glimmers , a man is starving to death , and right above us , on the third story , the mother of Ralph is dying . 
It is Ralph who stands near her , in his miserable attire -- stands with his finger on his lip -- gazing in dumb wonder at his sister 's face . 
The candle , flashing upward , reveals his visage , and gives it a sinister expression . 
Grasping her brother 's hand , she said in a very low voice -- `` Never mind , Ralph . 
`` Yes , but I need n't a run so much with the Injine , '' muttered Ralph , adding with a glance toward the bed -- `` How 's mother ? 
`` An ' to-morrow whether anybody 's dead or alive , we 'll all be pitched into the street , '' was the murmur of Ralph . 
`` The Millerite 's daughter , '' ejaculated Ralph -- `` You ai n't a-goin ' to pray yourself , are you ? 
She placed the candle on the table , and in a moment , Ralph , Fanny and Hannah formed a circle about the stove . 
It was an interesting contrast -- the pale mild features of the Millerite 's daughter shaded by neatly parted brown hair , the younger and blooming face of Fanny , looking altogether lovely amid p254-035 her raven tresses -- the hard visage of Ralph , with great masses of tangled hair , hiding his forehead , even to the eyes . 
`` Takes three to raise a muss , and four to make a crowd , '' muttered Ralph : `` Wonders how many poor people it takes to make a poor-house ? '' 
cried Ralph , as he beheld a huge basket , standing on the floor , behind Hannah , with its contents , whatever they were , concealed by a check apron . 
Ralph uttered an oath , coupled with a rude ejaculation of joy , while Fanny drawing near the table , contemplated the contents of this mysterious basket . 
`` I am so glad -- '' `` No it aint nayther , '' said Ralph , clenching his fists , `` I know who it is , and on a Sunday night too , when the very devil hisself goes to sleep . '' 
As for the Widow Jones , who occupies the upper part of the house , she must be gone by nine o'clock to-morrow . 
`` Isr ` el , the Widow Jones , up stairs , is goin ' to leave you to-night , '' said John . 
`` But will this rowdy -- I mean Ralph who runs with the injines , let you ? '' 
I will persuade him -- I will persuade him -- '' Grasping his cane by the middle , Israel made his way , without an instant 's delay , to the door which led into the upper stories . 
`` On a Sunday night , '' growled Ralph , as the knock was heard at the door -- `` Stand aside g-a-ls and let me settle him . 
The face of Ralph , who confronted him with clenched hands , and sullen eyes -- the mild visage of Hannah -- the beautiful countenance of Fanny -- the bed whose coverlet concealed the form of the dying woman -- the basket on the table , and the little stove which was roaring away in one corner -- not a single detail of the scene , escaped the quick glance of Israel Bonus . 
`` Ralph , my fine fellow , how does thee do ? 
Fanny , my dear child '' -- he chucked the young girl under the chin , and patted her velvet cheek -- `` So thee poor mother is sick , very , very sick . 
Had the floor opened , and one of the Genii of the Arabian Nights poked his head through the aperture , the occupants of the room could not have manifested a deeper surprise , than was at this moment impressed upon their faces , as they beheld Israel Bonus see-saw-ing about the place , glancing with his sharp eyes into every corner , and greeting every one in his gruff voice with a good-humored word . 
`` May I be knock 'd into the middle of next week , if I can take you , old codger , '' said the irreverent Ralph -- `` What do you mean by pitchin ' on upon us , in this style , an ' smilin ' an ' grinnin ' like a basket o ' chips ? '' 
cried Israel , as he planted himself before the young girl , rubbing his nose with his cane , as he tapped her cheek , and pinched her chin -- `` Thee is a good girl -- and thee and thee Mother can live with me , and keep house for me , and we will make a nice family -- wo n't we , my good child ? '' 
Had the honest Bonus solicited Fanny to accompany him in a pleasure trip to China , in an air balloon , she would undoubtedly have been taken by surprise ; but this proposition , so smilingly made by the fatherly Israel , was some leagues ahead of China and air balloons , both as regards novelty and astonishment . 
Ralph looked as though a Paixhan cannon had burst within hearing -- he was , if we may use a bold expression , appalled by the coolness of Israel Bonus . 
You kin take the horn , you kin , '' cried Ralph , borrowing a bold metaphor from the natural history of an Engine Company -- `` You burn my time , and lay me flat -- you do -- or my name is not Jonesey the B'iler ! '' 
And Ralph surveyed the broad-brim , bone-headed cane , fair-top boots and double-chin , as a stranger from the interior , visiting the city for the first time would examine the skeleton of the Mermaid , so carefully preserved among the curiosities of Peale 's Museum . 
`` That 's the reason I 'm here this evening , '' smiled Bonus , as he playfully attempted to take Fanny 's hand -- `` We old folks are rather queer in our notions . 
`` Ralph , what kind of work would thee like to do ? '' 
Ralph pulled awkwardly at his tangled hair , muttering -- `` Why of you do mean a fellow a kindness , there 's no denyin ' but I 'd like to get work , an ' get paid for it , for this runnin ' with the injine gets a fellow more bricks a-side o ' his head than it puts coppers in his pocket . 
But I aint a-goin ' to work for any man as -- '' Ralph was arrested by a groan which resounded from beneath the tattered coverlet . 
`` Mother is waking from her sleep , '' said Fanny hastening to the bed , but she was gently thrust aside by Israel , who placed his cane under his arm , and thrust one hand beneath the coverlet , at the same time fumbling with the other about the pillow , which supported the sleeper 's head . 
said Ralph , remarking the action of Israel . 
Bonus turned his face to the ceiling , shutting his eyes and pursing his mouth , until he looked like a capital copy of an old-fashioned family doctor . 
Ralph advanced , and lifted the coverlet from the face of the sick woman . 
And Bonus , disturbed in his medical reverie , dropped his eyes from the ceiling , and looked into the uncovered face of the woman . 
For no sooner did the gaze of Israel rest upon the uncovered face , than his own face , so ruddy and well-preserved , assumed an unhealthy and chalky color . 
The hand of the sick woman slid from his stiffening fingers . 
He did not start backward , for he had not the power to move . 
His cane rattled to the floor . 
His lips gave utterance to a faint ejaculation . 
And his small eye -- perhaps for the first time in his life -- dilated from their wrinkled lids , until the white of each eyeball was visible . 
said Ralph , frightened by the very fright of the Conveyancer . 
but still he had not a word . 
As for Israel , he remained in that statue-like position for at least two minutes , gazing alternately at the face of the sick woman , and at the hand which he had clasped . 
Then he looked at his own hand -- the hand which had been in contact with the hand of the sleeper -- and began to rub it , in an absent way , against the sleeve of his coat , trembling all the time , and white as chalk . 
After a moment , he turned to the door with tottering steps , and left the room , leaving his cane upon the floor . 
Never in thirty years had Israel Bonus forgotten his cane . 
He did not close the door behind him , but made the best of his way down stairs , rubbing his hand against his sleeve , and muttering to himself . 
And down stairs , with his head against the door , crouched John Cattermill , listening intently for the sound of Israel 's steps , and holding back his wife , who wished to ascend to the third story , and warn Israel of his danger . 
`` Stand back , Nance , I say ; you sha ` nt go up , you sha ` nt , '' he grumbled , as he held her back by the wrist . 
cried Ralph with a ruffianly scowl , as Hannah shrunk back from the sight of the sick woman 's face -- `` Did you never see a sick woman afore ? 
Fanny was by his side , whispering in his ear . 
`` Ralph do n't behave like a brute . 
Once perchance she was beautiful , but now , even Ralph , rude and callous as a life of hardship had made him , shrank back and turned his eyes away from the sight of his Mother 's Face . 
As for Ralph , cold , hungry and stricken with stupor , he sank down near the bed , placing his bony hands upon his knees , and fixing his eyes blankly upon the floor . 
He did not seem to have the power of speech or motion . 
And the eyes of the dying woman , wandering about the room , rested at last upon the ragged Outcast , who crouched near her bed , with the upper part of his face hidden by his matted hair . 
`` You are crying , Ralph -- '' there was something less of harshness in her voice -- `` Crying for me . 
`` I haint a cryin ' -- growled Ralph -- `` I 'm jist a thinkin ' how we 've all scraped on together , and how that it ` ud be a cussed sight better if we would all kick the bucket together , and be done up in one coffin . 
And he hung his head , and the tears from his shadowed face dropped one by one upon his knee . 
Ralph , Ralph , I say -- here -- '' The son started up , alarmed by the quick tones of his mother 's voice . 
And where in the meantime is Ralph ? 
He left his home in Bonus Court , some hours ago , a few moment 's after Fanny 's departure , and on a similar errand . 
Shall we relate the history of Ralph 's adventures while in search of a Priest , between the hours of nine and one o'clock ? 
It was Ralph , who in his search for a Priest had entered Saint John 's . 
`` I did n't go to do it , '' -- Ralph , looked around him at Priests -- boys clad in white -- white candles around the coffin -- and gloomy church tapestried with faces -- while his face became grotesque from the very intensity of his amazement -- `` I did n't go to do it . 
You will disturb the services of the Church , '' whispers the person in the Skull-cap , with an admonitory inclination of his head : `` Be quiet , my child . '' 
The gaze of Ralph was now transferred from the Church to the solitary individual . 
Ralph , already awed by this scene -- the Coffin draped in black -- the children in white , swinging silver censers to and fro -- the Organ wailing through the dead stillness -- was hushed into silence by the authoritative manner of the reverend personage . 
`` To come an ' pray with my mother , she 's a dyin ' and wants a rale Priest , '' replied Ralph , in one breath , without pausing for a single stop . 
The person in the Skull-cap surveyed Ralph from head to foot . 
`` Jones , Mrs. Jones , an ' she lives in Bonus Court , Number Two , up stairs . '' 
In a hurried whisper , Ralph described the location of his mother 's residence . 
The gentleman in dark attire bent nearer and nearer to the ragged boy , while his face assumed a saddened and painful look . 
`` I will come , '' he whispered -- `` go out of the Church . 
whispered Ralph , `` You -- you do n't mean to say -- '' `` My name is John Augustin . 
Ralph , with a wondering stare , parted from the Priest , and crumbling his cap in his bony hands , began to force his way through the crowded aisle . 
The night was bitter cold , and Ralph , in his thin attire , had a hard time of it to keep his blood in circulation . 
He stamped his feet upon the ice which covered the pavement , and beat his chest with his hands , and at last -- although the heart of the young ruffian was full , and his eyes wet with tears -- began to dance up and down , from the gutter to the railing , and back again . 
`` I wonder why he do n't come , '' said Ralph , dancing away with more power than grace : `` To keep a feller a ` waitin ' here in this cold , when his mother 's a-dyin . ' 
Ralph did not utter another word in front of Saint John 's . 
`` Safe enough , '' replied a voice very near Ralph , a voice deep and hurried , `` no mistake about it . 
As the carriage rattled along the street , Ralph with his mouth closed and his eyes darkened , attempted to move his arms , while he began to recover slowly from the stupor with which this incident had benumbed his faculties . 
He attempted to move his arms , but discovered to his cost , that they were tied behind his back . 
He next tried to speak , but his mouth was effectually closed . 
As for his eyes , they were wrapt in impenetrable darkness ; the bandage which encircled his head , pressed upon the eye-balls with a tight and painful sensation . 
The rattling of the carriage wheels , and that vision of his Mother 's face , were but portions of some frightful dream -- so Ralph thought to himself -- and he would soon awake and find himself sleeping on his ragged bed , in Bonus Court . 
However , he resolved to put his doubts to rest , by a trifling but satisfactory experiment . 
His legs were free , and he began to kick freely about him , on every side . 
Ralph quite delighted to discover that he was awake , and was not in a dream , continued to apply his feet on either side , with great rapidity . 
He was answered by an `` Ouch ! '' 
and a curse , accompanied by an energetic application of an unknown hand to the side of his head . 
the voice bellowed in his ear , in tones which were audible above the rattling of the carriage wheels . 
Ralph held -- not his tongue , for that was useless -- but his feet and kicked no more . 
Ralph could form no idea of the part of the city , or the names of the streets , which the carriage traversed . 
Ralph heard the crash of its opening , and a tremor -- was it cold or terror ? 
-- pervaded his limbs . 
There was not much time for thought , however , for a pair of hands grasped him by the feet , and another pair by the shoulders , and he was rapidly borne through the carriage door . 
He felt the cold air of the winter night upon his cheeks for a moment , and then was hurried into an atmosphere dense and stifling with many smells -- all far from pleasant -- and all imbued with tobacco smoke . 
thought Ralph as he was hurried along . 
There came a blast of cold air again , and Ralph felt that his invisible captors were descending a stairway . 
In short , after many changes in the temperature of the atmosphers p254-065 -- after traversing three level passages or rooms , and descending three stairways , Ralph was forced into a chair , the bandage taken from his eves , and the plaster torn from his mouth . 
said a voice -- the same voice which Ralph had heard in the cab . 
The captured boy looked about him with a wild and wondering glance . 
He was seated in an arm chair , before a large table , in the centre of which a candlestick was placed . 
Ralph saw the cracked ceiling above him , but the walls of the room were hidden from his view . 
And opposite Ralph -- on the other side of the table -- sat a portly man very neatly attired in black , with a flaring red neckerchief around his apopletic throat . 
His spotless shirt bosom glittered with a diamond breast-pin . 
His face , or rather that portion of his face which was visible , displayed a vast amount of lower jaw , and a wide expanse of cheeks , red as the neckerchief or the blazing stove . 
His forehead was concealed by a black silk handkerchief , bound tightly around the head , from the crown to the brows , and over one eye he wore an enormous patch , whose bright green was rather picturesquely contrasted with the scarlet of his cheeks . 
And the hands of this gentleman , resting upon the table , presented two pistols toward the breast of Ralph , their polished barrels glistening brightly in the candle-light . 
Ralph did not utter a word . 
His face , with the tangled hair hanging over the brows , was very pale , but its lineaments were hard and rigid , as with the impulse of a sudden thought , or the apathy of settled despair . 
His grey eyes roved incessantly from the green patch to the pistols , from the pistols to the cracked ceiling , and from the ceiling toward the coal stove , and the thick darkness which lay beyond it . 
Yet he did not utter a word . 
He rubbed his wrists -- which exhibited still the red marks of the cord , and wiped away the traces of the plaster from his mouth , and then resting his elbows on the table , and his cheeks between his hands , gazed steadily into the only visible eye of the mysterious personage . 
Truth to tell the gentleman was somewhat discomposed by the steady stare of Ralph . 
`` You kin look , an ' take your fill in lookin ' young gallows-bird , '' he remarked . 
Ralph started at the word , ` Penitentiary ' but did not unclose his lips `` Pennytensherry , yes I said it , '' continued the gentleman of the Green-Patch , `` You 'll go there sartin ' shure , before you 're an hour older . 
Ralph did not speak . 
His stolid silence seemed to ruffle the equanimity of the portly gentleman . 
Ralph did not answer . 
He seemed to be engaged in a sort of metaphysical reverie , in regard to the Green Patch which covered the portly gentleman 's eye . 
Ralph gazed intently upon the card , which had been flung across the table , and which now rested between his elbows , and managed with great difficulty to `` spell out '' the following inscription : STEWEL PIDGEON , ESQ. . 
Yet even this appeal , so eloquently expressed and accompanied by a fierce rattling of revolvers against the table , did not rouse the sullen Ralph into speech . 
cried Ralph -- speaking for the first time . 
`` Never , '' responded Ralph . 
and then a sign of latent laughter passed rapidly over his compressed features . 
In compliance with this request , Ralph inserted his hands into the pockets of his ragged round-a-bout -- chuckling to himself at the idea -- and in an instant drew forth from each pocket a dingy package , which he laid upon the table . 
he shouted in dismay , as he unrolled the dingy package : `` Bank Notes , by the livin ' Jingo ! 
Bending over the table , he extended his bony hands , and fluttered in the candle-light a tempting display of Bank Notes . 
His one eye winked knowingly , and at every word he clanked the pistols on the table . 
Ralph gazed on the Notes , and then at the Green Patch , with a puzzled look -- `` What might my name be ? '' 
Ralph dropped the notes , sank back on the chair , and began to scratch his head , fixing his eyes upon a particular spot in the ceiling . 
mumbled Ralph . 
`` I 'll do anythin ' to get off '' -- and covering his face with his hands , he sobbed bitterly . 
`` Some , '' replied Ralph , extending his fists toward the light . 
`` Not if there was twenty , and I had a couple o ' th ' Fairy boys with me , '' said Ralph , wiping the tears from his eyes : `` Hows ` ever , one of the Fairy boys is ekel to twenty fellers , at any time -- in a dark room , or at the corner of Third and Dock , of a Sunday afternoon . 
`` Say the word , and I 'm your man , '' answered Ralph . 
` Y-e-s , '' murmured Ralph , becoming deeply interested . 
muttered Ralph . 
Here Stewel 's one eye winked in violent derision of the idea , that he did not know Ralph and all his gang . 
`` Of course you do , '' cried Ralph , `` If you did ` nt know me you could ` nt a-found me out . 
And without another word , Ralph filled the gloomy place with a most unearthly yell , which bore a vivid resemblance to an Indian war-whoop . 
Making an extemporaneous trumpet with his hands , he commanded an imaginary engine to give way -- to man the rope -- to let her drive -- with other expressions of a similar lively character . 
`` Jist try me , '' answered Ralph , and he murmured to himself , `` a small tin box filled with valleyable papers . '' ' 
cried Ralph . 
Ralph cast his eyes toward the pistols , and his countenance was darkened by a sudden gloom . 
`` Where am I now , '' asked Ralph , rather disconcerted by the composure of the Police Officer -- `` In Southwark or in Kensington ? '' 
Ralph was impressed with an involuntary fear , as he saw the Police Officer rise from the chair , and approach him with a pistol in one hand and a black kerchief in the other . 
Ralph nodded , and Stewel proceeded to tie the black neckerchief around the head and over the eyes of the young ruffian . 
Another movement , and his wrists were secured by the cord and the stick , which served instead of a pair of manacles . 
muttered the blindfolded Ralph . 
`` Aye , aye , '' whispered Ralph , and he was lead from the Place -- room or cavern or cellar , as you choose to call it -- and after many ascents and descents , and sudden changes of the temperature , he felt himself in the cold winter atmosphere again , as the sharp closing of a door resounded at his back . 
`` Aye , aye , '' replied Stewel , and Ralph was gently urged into the cab , or carriage , and presently the wheels were rattling on their way once more . 
asked Stewel , who sat by his side . 
laughed Ralph , adding to himself , in a voice which was drowned by the uproar of the wheels -- `` Charles Augustus Williken , aint you a bad boy to go and break your poor rich father 's heart ! '' 
And Ralph chuckled merrily to himself , as the carriage whirled along , although a tear now and then stole from beneath his bandage as he thought of his dying mother . 
`` Never mind , '' he murmured , `` Father John 's a-prayin ' with her , and Fanny 's by her bed , not mentionin ' the Millerite 's daughter . '' 
asked Ralph . 
Soon however the carriage turned , and rattled once more over the paving stones , and as it seemed to Ralph was driven rapidly into the heart of the city . 
Ralph felt the hand of Stewel upon his arm . 
He was led from the carriage over ice and snow -- he heard a quick sound like the opening of a gate -- and then was urged onward , by the hand of Stewel , his chilled feet sinking ankle-deep at every step . 
`` Here 's three steps -- take keer , '' whispered Stewel , and Ralph felt his foot upon a marble step . 
He counted three steps and then heard the grating of a key in a lock . 
And at the same instant Ralph led forward , felt a delightful change from the cold winter air , to a temperature at once warm and comfortable . 
He trod upon a carpet ; there was no longer ice and snow beneath his feet . 
`` I 'm in somebody 's entry , '' he muttered . 
Stewel placing himself behind Ralph was urging him slowly and cautiously up a carpeted stairway . 
Ralph , whose heart began to beat violently against his chest , counted nineteen steps , and then was lifted off his feet and grasped in the arms of the Police Officer . 
Ralph 's teeth began to chatter ; his heart thumbed against his tattered jacket ; for the first time he felt afraid . 
He was borne onward by the steady arms of Stewel , for the space of some two or three minutes , and then placed on his feet again . 
A door opened before him ; he was urged over the threshhold ; he heard it close behind him . 
`` Y-e-s , '' faltered Ralph who trembled from head to foot . 
When they get the tin box , do you -- '' `` Holler like thunder , '' interrupted Ralph . 
Ralph heard a footstep followed by the sound of a door stealthily closed . 
With a shudder he listened to another sound -- the noise of a key turning the lock . 
`` One two three five six ten eleven twenty , '' counted Ralph -- with an admirable defiance not only of punctuation but also of the commonly received rules of arithmetic -- `` Forty forty one fifty sixty a-hund-e-r-d ! '' 
Panting for breath Ralph tore the black kerchief from his brows and examined the scene , into which he had been so curiously ushered , with an eager and hurried look . 
`` My hands are free anyhow , '' he soliloquized -- `` That 's somethin' for you . 
And Ralph indulged in a quiet fit of laughter . 
Yet his laughter soon died away . 
He stood enveloped by utter darkness . 
Ralph began to tremble . 
The darkness made him afraid . 
The sound of the key turning in the lock , added to his terror . 
Extending his hands , he began to feel his way through the darkness , and thus cautiously examined the details of the room . 
At one side stood a desk , made of some smooth wood , which Ralph examined with hands chilled by cold , or fear . 
In the opposite wall stood the closet door ; Ralph felt the glass window , inserted in its panels near the top . 
This examination over , Ralph stood trembling in the darkness , at once confused by the events of the past hour , and full of doubt and fear for the events of the future part of the Night . 
he soliloquized : house -- my gang ! 
Ralph felt his way through the dark , and laid his hand upon the knob of the door . 
he exclaimed . 
And yet surrounded as he was by darkness and mystery , the Idea which had entered his brain an hour before , and induced him to submit blindly to the commands of Stewel Pydgeon , did not desert him now . 
The Living Hoky was a mythological personage , often mentioned in the oaths of Ralph 's comrades -- `` de boys what runs wid de Fairy . '' 
Ralph was suddenly startled from his meditations by a new wonder . 
He heard the sound of a key turning in a lock -- a low , scarce perceptible , yet grating sound -- which made the blood run cold in his veins . 
`` Them fellers is come , '' he muttered , and searched hurriedly for the closet door . 
It was soon encountered by his extended hands . 
Sliding into the recess which the door concealed , Ralph felt a bright light flash through the glass window into his face . 
Ralph had not much time to examine the landscape , wonderful as it seemed to him , for as the fight flashed over the room , he noticed with a quick throb under his ragged jacket , that the keys of the desk dangled beneath its polished mahogany lids . 
`` That 's somethin' , '' he muttered to himself . 
Ralph held his breath and pressed his face against the glass door of the closet . 
In this position he could only see that portion of the room which lay between the Closet and the Desk , and this space , not more than a yard in width , was now enlivened by a vivid light . 
Let us describe it , as it appeared to the eyes of Ralph . 
The sound of the footsteps became more distinct , and a Man dressed in black came stepping slowly backward , until he stood between the gaze of Ralph and the desk . 
The light shone over his face , and cast his shadow on the floor , but it was not carried by him . 
His form dilated until he seemed at least six feet in height , and every sinew seemed to quiver with powerful emotion . 
In one hand he grasped a Golden Cup -- the other hand , outstretched , with the fingers extended , seemed to beckon to some unknown person to approach . 
Indeed , this face chilled the wondering Ralph with fear -- a crawling and indefinable dread . 
`` It 's a ghost , '' to ought Ralph , and he pressed his face against the window until his nose was flattened upon the cold glass . 
Ralph could survey him with ease , and from head to foot . 
The dark frock coat which he wore was buttoned to the throat ; his attire was fashionable in its style , and developed the outline of a lithe and graceful form , which now was swelled beyond its proportions by an indescribable emotion . 
And then Ralph beheld a slighter figure move slowly forward , with slow and difficult steps , until it stood face to face with the Man in the dark attire . 
Ralph could not determine . '' 
muttered Ralph . 
And Ralph beheld the Man slowly take off his Face , as though it were but an article of wearing apparel . 
In other words , he removed the Mask which he wore , and stood over the cloaked figure -- an infernal triumph darkening over his countenance . 
And then Ralph , with hushed breath and throbbing heart , witnessed the sequel of the scene -- And the light extended by the white hand shone vividly into the Dead Face with its glaring eyes and perpetual smile , and cast its shadow upon the Living Face , now agitated by an almost fiendish joy . 
Ralph listened eagerly for the voice of the Cloaked Figure . 
`` The candlestick do n't tremble a bit , '' said Ralph to himself , as he saw the marble-like hand extending the candle without the least perceptible tremor . 
Ralph saw his right hand describe a circle in the air , while his lips moved , and his eyes dilated in their sockets . 
`` A di ` mond on his finger , '' thought Ralph -- `` It 's a beauty of a hand he has -- for a man -- though the hand o ' the tother is whiter by half . '' 
To the utter horror of Ralph , the Man with the Mask cast his eyes towards the closet and advanced a step . 
muttered Ralph . 
He clenched his fists , and nerved to desperation by his very fears , resolved to spring upon the Man , at the very moment when he attempted to open the closet door . 
The Man advanced , fixing his eyes upon the very glass through which Ralph was gazing . 
The heart of the boy beat quicker ; with clenched hands and deep-drawn breath , he stood prepared for the issue of the scene . 
`` All is up , '' thought Ralph -- `` Now for ` t ! '' 
He turned away , and Ralph saw him pause once more in the centre of the carpet , and confront the kneeling figure . 
Once more the diamond ring glittered on his finger , as his hand described a circle over the head of the prostrate form . 
Ralph saw him step backward , and in an instant he had passed out of view . 
Holding the light above its head , it passed onward with a gliding step -- that to the excited fancy of Ralph -- did not seem to touch the floor . 
The cloak waved in graceful folds around its outlines , as it glided along , but Ralph could not discover whether that garment concealed the form of a man or a woman . 
`` I think it 's a boy ` bout my own age , though a heap more delicate '' -- murmured Ralph , as the Cloaked Figure passed from his sight . 
He saw its shadow upon the space of carpet which extended from the closet to the desk , but that was all . 
He listened while a superstitious awe gathered in his veins . 
His blood was chilled . 
He could hear the beating of his heart . 
thought Ralph , and for a moment he was agitated alternately by hesitation and resolve : `` If I open it he may see me , If I do n't , I 'll lose the chance of knowing what it all means . '' 
A world of fancies flashed through his brain in a moment . 
He heard the opening of a door , and heard the voice of the Man whispering -- `` Come ! '' 
Ralph 's hesitation was at an end . 
Cautiously unclosing the door , he gazed through the aperture and beheld -- the two Figures passing over the threshold , into another and larger p254-074 chamber ? 
As he unclosed the door all was darkness again . 
He was once more alone . 
Trembling from head to foot , Ralph crept from the closet , and stood listening , while his coarse shoes pressed on the thick carpet of the small chamber . 
All the Ghost stories he had ever heard , came suddenly upon him . 
`` I 'll be dogged if it was a livin ' man , '' he muttered , in his peculiar phraseology : `` It was a spook and that 's a fac ' . 
The Idea which had induced the boy to follow blindly the directions of Stewel Pydgeon , was completely forgotten in the whirl of his doubts and fears . 
Ralph advanced in the darkness , spreading forth his hands . 
he muttered -- `` That is if they went out at all . 
How long Ralph stood wondering and trembling in that dark room , it is beyond our power to determine . 
If time is properly measured by thoughts rather than by moments , he stood there , perfectly motionless for at least an hour . 
But if it is possible for a whole year of thinking to take place in the brain of an `` Injine Boy '' within the compass of a few moments , we must come to the conclusion that only five minutes o ' th ' clock passed away , while Ralph stood like a statue in the centre of the dark room . 
At length he seemed to recover his self-possession . 
Having settled his mind with regard to this interesting question , Ralph was suddenly seized again with the Idea , which had entered his brain while listening to the respectable Pydgeon . 
`` The keys is in the lock , '' he said , and felt and anxiously for the desk : `` If my gang do n't come soon , I 'm afeer 'd they 'll come too late . '' 
The desk met his extended hand . 
In a moment the keys were in his fingers . 
It required some time to learn the `` trick '' of the lock , but Ralph was cool and cautious once more . 
He worked away steadily in the darkness , determined to learn the mystery of that lock and of those keys , before he left the chamber . 
But while he was most deeply absorbed in this occupation , he was disturbed by a sound -- like the echo of an approaching step . 
My gang 's comin ' -- '' and Ralph succeeded in turning the key in the lock , as the sound of footsteps grew more distinct . 
`` A tin box with very valleyable papers -- '' he muttered , and the lid of the desk rose with the impulse of his arm . 
`` Now or never , '' thought Ralph , and placing one hand beneath the lid , he searched for the `` tin box , '' which had formed such an essential feature of Stewel 's discourse . 
It encountered his grasp . 
He drew it from a recess something like those which are known to lawyers under the general name of `` pigeon hole . '' 
He was somewhat astonished at its weight . 
But the steps and the whispers grew more distinct ; clasping the box to his side with one arm , he gently dropped the lid , left the keys in the lock and retreated to the closet . 
Scarcely had he gained this retreat and placed his finger against a groove of the closet door , when a warm light streamed suddenly around the narrow room -- over the desk , over the rich carpet , over the walls , adorned with African Princes , palm trees , tigers , elephants and crocodiles . 
`` Now 's the time to try a feller 's pluck , '' was the elegant thought of Ralph , as he once more flattened his nose against the door . 
It was indeed the crisis of his fate ; a crisis full as interesting to the young ruffian as that great crisis which every year dissolves the Union , is to a celebrated Senator . 
You may be certain that Ralph listened with all his ears . 
The steps which disturbed the stillness were not all like the gentle footsteps of the two figures who had some moments previous occupied the soul of Ralph . 
`` Them 's the boots of two heavy fellers , '' said Ralph -- `` Two o ' th ' biggest of the gang . '' 
Ralph held his breath . 
This personage held the dark lantern , whose rays did not illuminate his face , which was concealed by the collar of his overcoat , even to the very eyes . 
They looked hurriedly around the room , as the first suffered the ray of the lantern to fall upon the desk , and their deep whispers were loud enough for the ears of Ralph . 
Ralph thought to himself that he had never before seen such curious specimens of the feathered creation , as the Humming Bird and the Blue-jay , who now stood between his eyesight and the desk . 
Ralph watching the movements of these gentlemen through the closet window , saw at a glance that they were somewhat puzzled by the sight of the keys in the lock . 
He regretted that he had not locked the desk , and placed the keys in his pocket . 
`` This is makin ' robbin ' a leetle too easy -- '' he thought , or muttered : `` Wonder what they 'll say when they open the desk ? '' 
Ralph beheld a wide range of pigeon-holes filled with papers and letters , but there was one which was entirely vacant . 
He growled a blasphemous oath . 
His hand ran rapidly along the range of pigeon-holes . 
`` Jay , '' he muttered , in a voice which Ralph distinctly heard : `` We 're sold . '' 
He swore a fearful oath , and invoked all sorts of blindness upon his eyes , adding -- `` It 's time to tortle Hum -- it is . 
The rays of the lantern flashed over the white coat of the Humming Bird , and revealed the small portion of his face which was visible between the collar of his coat and the rim of his hat . 
He seemed involved in a maze of doubts . 
Blue-jay leaning one hand upon the unclosed desk , looked up into his comrade 's eyes , with a glance that betrayed much anxiety and more suspense . 
Ralph saw them distinctly . 
`` Now 's the time for me to holler , '' he chuckled to himself -- `` To holler and raise the neighbors . 
Ralph had an Idea of his own , which was entirely distinct from the plan laid down by Stewel Pydgeon , Esq. . 
It differed also , in many important respects from the plan adopted by Humming Bird and his friend . 
And Ralph with his face pressed against the thick glass , quietly watched the issue of the scene , while the tin box was under his left arm , and a finger of his right hand held fast the closet door . 
the thought flashed over him -- `` The glass is rather small and yet they 're whisperin ' and lookin ' this way . '' 
They were indeed whispering in tones which Ralph could not hear , and at the same time directing their attention to the closet , with glances which Ralph did not like . 
Ralph heard these words , and saw the huge Humming Bird make a deliberate though stealthy stride toward the closet . 
At the same moment he darkened the lantern . 
Ralph felt the cold sweat start from his forehead . 
To raise an outcry was to derange all his plans , and destroy his own Idea . 
To remain quiet and suffer the Humming Bird to discover him in the closet , with the tin box under his arm was to expose himself to the chances of a scuffle which might terminate in murder . 
Ralph pressed his finger against the groove of one of the upper panels of the door , and endeavoured to hold it by this frail fastening . 
He heard the step of the Humming Bird -- he felt that a hand was laid against the other side of the door . 
`` I 'll raise a hulabaloo , '' -- the thought flashed over Ralph 's mind , and the yell was on his lips , when he was arrested by the whispers of the Humming Bird . 
Ralph heard the foot-steps of the Blue-jay , as he crossed from the desk to the closet . 
And Ralph , very much like the Duke of Wellington at five o'clock in the evening of the Battle of Waterloo , wished `` that he was somewheres else . '' 
`` There they are , '' -- Ralph heard the jingling of the keys . 
Therefore the finger of Ralph , pressed against the groove of a panel of the inside , supplied sufficient force to resist the finger of the Humming Bird , applied to the exterior , which was perfectly smooth . 
`` They 're tryin ' the keys , '' said Ralph to himself -- `` That ` un wo n't do . 
Ralph heard the small iron bar rattle against the door and gave up the game for lost , when the voice of Blue-jay caught his ear . 
`` I hear steps , '' he whispered . 
Ralph caught the sound of their footsteps , as they moved stealthily toward the door which was on the left of the closet . 
The Man with the Mask and the Cloaked Figure -- such at least was the thought of Ralph -- had disappeared through the door which was on the right of the closet . 
These facts passed rapidly over the mind of Ralph , and his course was determined on the instant . 
It was the work of a moment to slip his tattered shoes from his feet . 
Then opening the closet door without a sound , he stole from the recess , and his bare feet pressed the thick carpet . 
He made his way through the darkness toward the door on the right . 
But if that door should happen to be locked -- Ralph shuddered at the idea . 
Or , if the ray of the lantern should happen to expose his form before he reached the door -- Ralph did not pause , but this thought was full as terrible as the former . 
The door once reached , and he was safe . 
Stepping on tip-toe , he passed from the closet , and directed his steps toward the door , as best he might in the darkness . 
Meanwhile he girded the tin box under his arm , determined to lose it only with his life . 
`` I tell you it 's in the room -- '' `` Gi ' us a glim o ' th ' lantern there -- '' Ralph stood spell-bound . 
A ray from the lantern , and he was lost . 
The ray of the lantern flashed over the room , over the form of the bare-footed Ralph , but it revealed the Door on the Right , which was within reach of his arm . 
He did not pause to look back , but sprang forward , and caught the knob of the door . 
At the same moment the curses of the thieves resounded at his back . 
Ralph tried it , with a hand nerved by despair . 
But Ralph accomplished it and locked the door at the very moment , when Humming Bird and Blue-jay were wrenching at the knob on the opposite side . 
`` Cuss away , '' cried Ralph `` I goes for my Idea-r ! '' 
No time was to be lost if he wished to carry the Idea into action . 
Ralph at a glance comprehended his situation . 
He had entered an entry or passage which connected a wing of the mansion with the main building . 
Ralph distinctly saw the opposite extremity of the passage . 
Advancing to the window , Ralph saw the moon shining in a cloudless sky . 
Her beams revealed the main building of this mysterious mansion , and enabled Ralph to survey three ranges of shutters , which were hermetically closed . 
At a glance he gathered something of a definite idea of the details of his situation . 
`` I am in the second story , '' soliloquized Ralph -- `` How shall I get down into the yard ? '' 
He heard the rattling of the knob on the opposite side of the door , but the sound only made him gird the tin box to his side with a firmer grasp . 
`` I 'll try my luck this way , '' he said and advanced toward the farther end of the passage . 
Here to his surprise , he was met not by a door but by a curtain which waved to and fro as though agitated by a gentle air . 
Ralph gently laid one hand upon the curtain -- pushed it as gently aside -- and shrouded by its folds , looked within or beyond . 
The ray streamed over his face and revealed its every lineament , as the eyes of the boy expanded in their sockets , while his lips parted until his teeth were visible . 
The scene which he beheld took from him , for the moment , all power of speech or motion . 
His body was concealed by the folds of the curtain . 
His face , glaring in the light which shone through the aperture , was stamped with a mortal fear . 
Presently he crept cautiously away from the curtain and reached the window again , where the Statue bathed by the pure moonlight , glared with its fixed eyeballs , like a Ghost . 
Ralph did not pause for a moment 's thought . 
Completely terror-stricken by the sight beyond the curtain , he raised the window , which happily glided upward without a sound . 
Was he about to leap from the window ? 
His grey eyes shone very large and bright beneath his tangled hair , and his cheek was as pale as that of the marble image at his back . 
`` I 'd like to get out o ' this her place any how , '' he said , gazing into the yard below : `` Git out I must arter that sight -- yes -- by hokey if I break a leg or mash my head a few . '' 
Still he did not relax his embrace of the tin box . 
A circumstance connected with the walls of the house , or rather the walls of the passage , which connected the wing with the main building , attracted his gaze . 
They did not seem sufficiently strong to bear the weight of Ralph . 
The vine itself not more than two inches in diameter , was seen winding over the lattice , from the pavement to the very window from which Ralph was gazing . 
He clutched the tin box under his left arm . 
He crept stealthily from the window . 
Grasping the topmost strip of the lattice work , he began his perilous descent . 
Once he looked upward , and the moon shone over his face , shadowed to the eyes by his matted hair . 
His cheeks were colorless , his eyes unnaturally bright ; the scene which he had beheld beyond the curtain impressed him with a creeping terror . 
And the frail strips trembled as he grasped them one by one , and creaked and quivered as he placed his bare feet upon them . 
Still nerved by his terror as much as his hope , he continued his descent , until the window was at least five feet above his head You may be sure that the tin box , under his left arm , only made his descent more difficult and perilous . 
It impeded the movements of his left hand , and once in the attempt to hold it more firmly to his side , he was almost precipitated to the pavement . 
At last he hung half way between the window and the pavement . 
Grasping the lattice with his right arm , he listened intently and looked below . 
A sound like the clanking of a bolt suddenly withdrawn , struck his ears . 
`` They 're comin ' from the basement story , '' was his thought , and at the same moment the lattice-work crashed from beneath his feet . 
He was suspended in the air -- his only support the frail strip which he clutched with his right hand . 
The strip began to shake with the unusual weight attached to it -- there was a quick sound like the breaking of a nail -- Ralph gave himself up for lost . 
`` A broken leg or a broken neck , '' he cried , `` But still the child does ` nt give up his Idea-r an ' his tin box ! '' 
We will leave Ralph to his fate , and look beyond the curtain , and see the sight which he beheld . 
The magnificence with which this room was furnished , had stricken Ralph with a speechless wonder . 
Chairs of red velvet , whose backs seemed made of solid gold ; tables of marble , white as alabaster ; sofas , cushioned like the chairs , with scarlet velvet , and like the chairs , framed in gold ; mirrors reaching from the ceiling to the floor , with rich drapery clinging to their glittering frames -- these were a part of the wonders which met the gaze of the astonished Ralph . 
Then the lofty walls were hung with paintings , which , to his eye , did not seem mere images of paint and canvass , but living forms , animated by all the passions that can move the human heart . 
Ralph could not see the face of this unknown personage , but a small hand was laid upon the cloak , and a small foot appeared beneath its folds . 
His face was in shadow , but Ralph saw clearly the expression of his features . 
This was the sight which Ralph beheld at the moment when he gazed beyond the curtain . 
But as he gazed , the Man with the Mask raised his hand in the light , and at the same moment the hand on the dark cloak was slowly uplifted . 
It was the sight of that face which had penetrated Ralph with a superstitious terror . 
As it appeared to him , one side bathed by the light , the other in deep shadow , it looked more unnatural and repulsive than the Mask which had concealed it some moments previous . 
Ralph could not determine . 
Do you wonder that the scene struck Ralph with terror ? 
He saw the vast and voluptuous chamber -- he saw that Face writhing as with a madman 's despair -- he saw the Cloaked Figure stand so dumb and immovable -- and his heart died within him . 
Turning away , he sought to escape from this scene in the manner which we have recorded . 
We will now take up the scene in the chamber , at the very moment when Ralph started away from the curtain . 
It is Ralph . '' 
It is Ralph '' -- continued to press her hands , while his face was strained and distorted in every muscle . 
After a while we will trace the fate of poor Ralph , whom we left hanging on the lattice , with the tin box under his arm . 
`` Are Ralph and Fanny Jones , otherwise called Harry and Annie Baldwin , '' was the response of the Home Missionary . 
And Ralph -- what has been the fate of this barefoot and half naked ruffian boy ? 
Once more we return to Ralph . 
We left him hanging in the air , one hand grasping the lattice , the other clutching the Tin Box against his side . 
Ten feet at least were between the young ruffian and the pavement , the lattice was breaking in his grasp , a ruddy light streamed from the basement story and illumined the shadows of the yard . 
Ralph raised his grey eyes to the moonlight , muttering between his teeth , that all was lost , and then cast a glance beneath him . 
In a moment a world of hopes and fears flashed through his brain . 
Fanny , his dying mother , the Penitentiary , a scuffle with the robbers in the gloomy yard , terminating in a murder -- thoughts which we express in these broken words , hurried through his brain like a flood through the unclosed lock of a canal . 
`` Here 's the last o ' Jonesey , '' he cried , and shut his eyes . 
He fell . 
Was he dashed against the pavement covered with ice and snow ? 
Did he lay there , a stunned and death-like mass of wretchedness , clad in rags , insensible to the cold or to the clutch of angry hands ? 
He shut his eyes and fell . 
For a moment all was dark , a sound like Fairmount Dam roared in his ears , and then -- He unclosed his eyes , and found himself hanging in the air within a foot of the pavement . 
In his fall he had madly clutched the trunk of the vine . 
And now , as it swayed and and creaked with his weight , he held it firmly with the grasp of a drowning man , looking about him with bewildered eyes . 
The light from the basement door described a belt of brightness on the snow and ice beneath his feet . 
Voices , too , grumbling in halfsuppressed tones , met his ear , but no face nor form appeared in the frame of the basement door . 
`` Aint all over yit , '' muttered Ralph , recovering his presence of mind : `` Brass is trumps always , an ' legs does when brass falls short . 
He dropped upon the ice and snow . 
His blood boiling with excitement , he did not seem to feel the cold , and stood as firmly with his bare feet on the ice-covered bricks , as though he trod upon a floor covered with a double thickness of Wilton carpet . 
Ralph did not pause to think , but made the best of his way toward the back of the yard . 
He saw the fence which separated it from the alley , glowing whitely in the moon . 
And then , turning the corner of the wing of the mansion , he saw the door which had given him entrance , and the marble steps coated with ice and snow . 
Ralph , still girding the tin box to his side , glanced cautiously around the corner of the house , and with that glance commanded a full view of the narrow strip of yard which lay between him and the basement door . 
Ralph knew him by his tattered round-a-bout , and muttered between his teeth , `` Blue-jay ! '' 
The second person stood for a moment in full moonlight , and , to the great surprise of Ralph , pulled off his overcoat spotted with great white buttons . 
`` Stewel kin take his coat agin , '' -- Ralph heard the muttered exclamation . 
And then , still peeping round the corner , he saw the personage deliberately strip his boots from his feet . 
`` You sha n't swear to me by them boots , nayther , Stewel , '' exclaimed Humming Bird -- for it was he -- `` No doubt you meant it well , when you lent 'em to me , but it wo n't do , old boy . '' 
But Ralph had not much time to spend in a longer survey of this scene . 
Scarcely had Humming Bird dashed the great coat and huge boots aside , -LRB- both worn over another coat and pair of boots -RRB- than Blue-jay pushed him forward over the snow , exclaiming -- `` Go in Bird ! 
They were rushing rapidly toward Ralph . 
As Ralph stood at the corner of the house , half-way between the basement door and the gate , it must be plain to the most obtuse comprehension , that Ralph and his tin box will encounter the gaze of the fugitives , before another instant passes over his head . 
said Ralph to himself , clenching his right hand : `` If I make a push for the gate they 'll see me : if I stay here they 'll be sure to maul me , and as for the tin box -- O hokey ! 
One glance toward the approaching thieves , one toward the gate which was at least ten yards off , and then Ralph clenching his hand , turned abruptly resolving to bury himself against the marble steps of the back door . 
At this moment his foot touched a dead body , which was extended stiffly on the snow , the blood oozing slowly from its severed throat . 
And right before the eyes of Ralph , rose a small structure , placed near the foot of the marble steps , and bearing over its gaping entrance the significant words -- `` BEWARE THE DOG . '' 
And crounching there , his knees touching his chin , and the tin box resting by his side , Ralph surveyed the yard , as a man in a light house might take observations along a line of rough and craggy coast . 
`` This is the end of all o ' Stewel 's plans , '' said a voice , well known to the ears of Ralph , and Blue-jay paused for a moment to contemplate the carcase of the dead animal . 
And the voice of Humming Bird by his side echoed with a curse , `` Oh Stewel Pydgeon ! '' 
For ten other figures came round the corner of the house -- stood between Ralph 's eyes and the moonlight -- and gazed from beneath their downdrawn hats and caps , upon the dead body of the Newfoundland dog . 
And Ralph shrinking within his rude retreat , beheld these distinguished faces and stout forms , clad in the very livery of vulgar theft , while the broken sentences of a low muttered conversation came distinctly to his ear `` Shill we go back ? '' 
There was a pause -- the gang of burglars seemed to battle with the panic which had impelled their flight -- while Ralph , afraid to breathe , set his teeth together , and began to feel cold for the first time . 
Ralph heard the gate creak on its hinges , and the noise of their foot-steps echoed from the alley . 
But Ralph still lay quiet and snug in his place of concealment . 
`` When a-body 's well off , a-body had better keep dark , '' he muttered , and extending a hand felt the tin box , which lay in the straw by his side . 
For a long time Ralph lay there , listening with all his ears for the slightest echo of a sound . 
Like a tortoise peeping from its shell , Ralph stealthily projected his head from the entrance of the dog-house . 
`` Now for brass and then for legs , '' he exclaimed , and taking up the tin box crept from the dog-house . 
Stealthily around the corner , Ralph ; with bare feet crushing the frozen snow , toward the door of the basement , Ralph . 
Your sister is there , above you , Ralph , but you do not know it . 
But stealthily over the frozen snow , Ralph , until you stand at the head of the basement steps . 
Sit you down there , Ralph , and quietly endue your chilled feet , with the comfortable boots , so carelessly thrown aside by the Humming Bird . 
Now the coat ; a warm coat , Ralph , though somewhat large ; a comfortable garment , though all too conspicuous , with its buttons of white bone , every one the size of a dollar . 
Boots on his feet , great coat on his back , and tin box under his arm , Ralph made the best of his way toward the gate , without once turning round his rude face , with shaggy hair , and large grey eyes . 
Arrived at the gate , which wide open seems to favor his retreat , Ralph stands still and hesitates -- `` Two ends to the alley , '' he murmurs -- `` Wonder at which end the poleese is waitin ' ? 
He passed through the gate into the alley , and along the alley in a western direction , toward the next wide street , running from north to south . 
As he approached this street he took a firmer hold of the tin box , and endeavoured to suppress the sound of his heavy boots , which at every step sank in the ice and snow with a distinct crash . 
The street was reached -- Ralph stood at the corner of the alley , and looked eagerly around him . 
The street as far as Ralph could see and hear , was silent and deserted Whither should he direct his footsteps ? 
Ralph shook his head . 
He hurried northward without another word . 
Clad in the great coat which flapped and draggled about the heels of his cumbrous boots , being only three sizes too large for him , Ralph followed the street , until it crossed the Ridge Road . 
Cutting sharp angles , shaving the corners of houses -- it would be entirely alone in crookedness , were it not for Old York Road , Dock Street , and one or two others of these eccentric streets , which run pretty much as they please , not having the fear of ` due north and south ' or ` due east and west ' before their eyes Ralph entered the Ridge Road , about two squares above the house of the Fairmount Engine . 
He had no time to think of `` De Fairy '' p254-118 now , but pushed rapidly onward , following the windings of the Ridge Road . 
`` Once out o ' this village , and I 'll begin to talk , '' muttered Ralph , when lo ! 
a figure turned a corner , and came toward him with its hands in its pockets . 
Ralph felt his heart beat quicker , with thump upon thump as the figure came from the shadow into the moonlight . 
cried the new-comer halting suddenly and surveying Ralph with one eye closed , in order to give the other a keener vision , `` Whar did you gid dat ar wommus , '' continued Bokey , speaking in a dialect peculiar to the more enlightened districts of Philadelphia . 
`` Never you mind Bokey ; I knows what I knows , '' answered Ralph . 
asked Ralph , anxious to divert attention from the tin box , which he hid behind his back . 
He saw the tin box . 
With these words , he passed `` Bokey '' and hurried on , at a pace between a walk and a run . 
He soon came in sight of Broad street , where a gloomy edifice , one story in height , rose like an evil thing , in the moonlit air . 
`` The House o ' Refuge , '' cried Ralph as he passed on . 
`` Do n't git this child in that ar ' place I guess '' -- and as though the building awoke unpleasant reflections , he turned his gaze another way , and increased his speed . 
The box was very heavy and weighed like lead upon his arm . 
He did not hesitate , however , but pursued his journey until he stood in front of a high board fence , which extended along the Ridge Road , on the extreme outskirts of the city . 
Ralph kicked it violently ; it gave way , and he passed through the crevice . 
Before him rose an edifice of pale blueish marble , which was surrounded by piles of stone and building timber . 
Ralph stole around , turned this building and soon came in sight of another edifice , compared to which the first was but a hut standing beside a palace . 
Ralph enters the great door of the marble edifice -- the door which faces to the south . 
A chill like death fastens on his veins . 
He crosses the passage , from whose marble floor a stairway ascends , and pauses in a moment in the centre of a vaulted chamber . 
The ceiling arches above his head . 
The floor is marble beneath his feet . 
A silence , whose very intensity appals him , encloses him as a coffin encloses the dead . 
Ralph trembles , starts to his feet , looks around , and kneels again . 
`` It 's only my fancy , '' he soliloquizes , `` the watchman 's sound asleep in his box , and Girard College is the last place where the ` spect to find a fellow with a tin box at this time o ' night . '' 
Ralph has no key , and in fact is without the means to break the lock . 
A lucky thought seizes him . 
Plunging his hand into the capacious pockets of the coat , Ralph presently drew forth a bunch of keys , a jack-knife and a file . 
With the file he forces the lock : the lid of the box opens at his touch . 
Then quietly he empties the contents of the box upon the marble floor . 
Do you see him in the moonlight , with his grey eyes growing larger every moment , and his ruffian face stamped in every line with dumb amazement ? 
Before him lie outspread the contents of the box . 
Ralph was fairly frightened by this display of Bank notes and gold . 
he soliloquized , as he caught at a handful of the glittering pile , and suffered it to glide between his fingers . 
A thousand dollars was the utmost limit of Ralph 's idea of immense wealth . 
With a thousand dollars he imagined a man might buy the State House and the United States Bank together . 
Ralph rose and paced the floor ; every step was answered by an echo , which growled through the vast building like distant thunder . 
Ralph , scratching his tangled locks and `` cracking '' his fingers , wandered up and down -- alone -- while the golden pile shone brightly on the floor . 
`` I have it , I have it , '' he cried at last , `` there is many a dark corner under the marble roof , in the cock-loft of this college . 
He gathered up the gold . 
He gathered up the parchment and bank notes . 
He placed gold and parchments and bank notes within the tin box again . 
Then crossing the vaulted hall , he entered another hall as vacant and gloomy , with a tiny thread of moonlight playing through its darkness . 
Ralph stood in the passage , or corridor , on the northern end of the building , at the foot of the stairway which , suspended -- as it seemed -- in air , led to the upper chamber , and to the roof of the College . 
Ralph clutched the tin box , and hurried upward . 
A single misplaced step , and he would have been dashed to pieces . 
At last he reached the topmost step , and stood upon the marble floor in the story of the College immediately beneath the roof . 
He found the temporary stairway after much difficulty , and ascended the creaking steps . 
He was in utter darkness . 
His mind became confused ; he was afraid , and would have retraced his steps , had he known which way to tread . 
He reached forth his hand , and it encountered one of those massive piles of brick which support -LRB- or seem to support -RRB- the immense roof of the College . 
And there , in one of those nooks which at noonday are dark as midnight , he placed the Tin Box , covering it with a mass of loose sand , dry mortar , and other rubbish which overspread the solid floor . 
But how should he retrace his steps in the thick darkness ? 
While searching for the wooden stairway by which he ascended , he was attracted by a dim light , shining only a few paces beyond him . 
`` The stairs that lead to the roof of the College , '' exclaimed Ralph ; `` b ` lieve I 'll go up and take a look at the moonlight . '' 
Up the narrow stairs , between the huge walls , or masses of brick and mortar , which touched him on either side , he ascended . 
It was not long before he stood upon that pavement of marble blocks , which forms the roof of the College . 
That roof , covered with snow , was darkened suddenly by a long belt of blackness -- the shadow of Ralph the Outcast , standing under the canopy of Heaven , on the summit of the marble pile . 
The sight which met his eyes for some moments held him dumb . 
Look at Ralph the Outcast , as he stands upon the roof of Girard College . 
Shall this young Ralph , ever ripen into the Dead Sea fruit of the Penitentiary ? 
The young ruffian in his uncouth dress , raised his large eyes to the sky , and saw the moon shining there above , with a single star not far away , and then a chaos of half formed thoughts began to break in waves , upon the beach of his barren soul . 
Thought 's like these -- of course not expressed in these words -- came half muttered from the lips of Ralph as he stood alone on the roof of Girard College . 
`` I 'll go home to Bonus Court , and take advice of Fanny , '' said Ralph . 
Clad in his white coat , he descended from the College , left the grounds , and after passing along Franklin Avenue , for a half a mile , entered a southern street , which led toward Bonus Court . 
Ralph hesitated . 
he said as he entered the Court -- `` Rayther think Fanny 'll be surprised when she hears I 'm so rich . 
Ralph laughed to himself as he looked through the window , into the room occupied by John Cattermill the Drunkard . 
While Ralph hesitates before the window , let us return for a few moments to the summit of Girard College . 
`` There 's a glim o ' light inside , but I ca n't see no one , '' soliloquized Ralph , as he looked through the window , `` Fust of all , I must get rid of this coat and these ` ere boots . '' 
Ralph opened the door , and entered the room of Cattermill on the first floor . 
exclaimed Ralph , gazing around the naked floor and walls . 
Ralph took off the great coat . 
Placing it upon the fireless hearth , -LRB- he had in his walk from the College emptied its pockets -RRB- he threw off the heavv boots , and arranged them on top of the coat . 
`` Here goes for a little ` lection fire , '' he said , as he applied the candle to the coat ; `` I did ` nt like to throw it away , a-cause I was so cold . 
John and Nancy are poor folks , '' he continued with a grimace , `` and poor folks ca n't do without fire . 
Squatting down like a beast on its haunches , Ralph placed his face between his hands , and -- listening all the while for the sound of a footstep -- began to reflect calmly upon the strange incidents of the night . 
At this moment , as Ralph half stifled by the smoke , was endeavoring to arrange the fire , the door opened behind him , and a form entered the lonely room . 
`` A great deal o ' fun can be got with a thousand dollars , '' cried Ralph , when a mild voice was heard at his shoulder -- `` Mister Charles Augustus Milliken , how are you ! '' 
Ralph looked up and beheld Stewel Pydgeon . 
Stewel in all his plenitude of flesh , with his full moon face glowing over a closely buttoned overcoat ; Stewel with a glazed cap drawn over his forehead ; Stewel with his hands in capacious pockets , and a cigar in his extensive mouth . 
Ralph , however , did not see them . 
He only beheld Stewel Pydgeon . 
Rising slowly to his feet , his bony form clad in its rags once more , he folded his arms , and confronted the Police officer . 
His matted hair encircled the upper part of his face , but his teeth were set , his lower jaw fixed and rigid as iron . 
The Priest with the skull-cap fitting closely over his brow , and small eyes glimmering from the depths of their socket -- the Priest whom Ralph called from the Church of Saint John -- is sitting by the bed of the dying woman . 
Her hand , stricken by pestilence , clasps his wrist as it has clasped it for three hours . 
He turns his gaze away from that face , made fearful by fever struggling with the damps of death , and shuddering in his dark attire , listens to the words which fall , low , muttered , but distinct , from her clotted lips . 
While Ralph confronts Stewel on the first floor , while the clutch of that death-stricken hand holds the Priest by the bed of despair , let us look at a Leaf from the Past . 
Ralph once more clad in his outcast rags , confronted him with folded arms , and teeth set together . 
said Stewel , as with mace and pistol , he seemed to embody all the plenitude of the Law , in his own corpulent person : `` Why it 's enough to break a-body 's heart , so it is . 
`` Ralph what has thee to say to this ? '' 
said Martha Lott laying her hand gently upon his shoulder . 
Ralph was silent . 
With knit brows and compressed lips , he was endeavouring to solve a singular problem , or rather a series of problems . 
Had Stewel really taken him for a rich man 's son , whose name was Charles Augustus Millikin ? 
These queries were passing through the mind of Ralph : he was bewildered by a torrent of suspicions and surmises which buzzed like a nest of bees , in his brain . 
Ralph heard this candid explanation with a singular complication of emotions . 
And clearest of all , that he , Ralph Jones , familiarly termed `` Jonesey the B'iler , '' had been made the scape-goat of Stewel 's `` speculation , '' and the dupe of Stewel 's pleasant game of `` Constitooshun and Laws . '' 
Will Ralph give up the tin box , and thus put the cap-stone to Stewel 's magnificent scheme ? 
`` Go way from me , '' growls Ralph squaring his elbows : `` You 're gass-y man ! 
`` Come along , '' he said mildly , as he puffed his cigar -- `` We 'll quit these primises together . 
`` Let him come on , '' growled Ralph : `` If he shoots he 'll be hung . 
And Ralph , as if inspired by the picture drawn by his vivid fancy , burst into a hearty fit of laughter . 
At the same time , eyeing Stewel from head to foot , he added in a more quiet tone -- `` It 'll take a thunderin ' rope , though ! 
Even the placid current of his official temper was ruffled by the taunts of the ruffian boy . 
He dashed the cigar from his mouth . 
he brandished his mace before the eyes of Ralph . 
His face changed ; he seemed to hesitate whether to make an attack upon Stewel , or to submit quietly to his guidance . 
`` Go , Ralph , '' whispered Hannah : `` in the morning father will get you bail -- '' `` What if I give up the tin box ? '' 
said Ralph suddenly -- `` That is , admittin ' for argument sake , that I 've got the tin box ? '' 
`` I gin in , '' interrupted Ralph : `` Come up stairs . 
He moved toward the stairway , but Stewel arrested his step with a levelled pistol . 
`` None of your attempts to escape , '' he exclaimed : `` The first move o ' that kind you make , I fire . 
Ralph accordingly ascended the stairs , followed close by Stewel , with mace and pistol in his hand . 
Ralph has not been up stairs , and therefore I conclude that the tin box is not there . '' 
And with evident impatience the twain awaited the re-appearance of Ralph and Stewel . 
As Ralph ascended the stairs , followed by Stewel , a crowd of opposing thoughts struggled through his busy brain . 
So Ralph determined to escape from Stewel by the trap-door , in the ceiling of the third story . 
He passed through the room on the second floor . 
cried Stewel and Ralph heard the click of his pistol : `` The fust sign o ' foul play , and I shoot -- '' `` ` Nother story higher , '' answered Ralph : `` Come on ! 
Ralph 's heart beat wildly under its ragged jacket , as he saw the light shining through the chinks of the door . 
He laid his hand upon the latch . 
he said , and opened the door . 
Stewel followed him into the room , closed the door , and calmly surveyed the various details of the scene . 
Stewel beheld the scene , and uttered , in his surprise a blasphemous oath . 
His hands sank by his side ; both mace and pistol were pointed to the floor . 
As for Ralph he did not seem to heed the kneeling figure , nor remark the tattered coverlet , which gave such a look of utter misery to that scene of death . 
The first sight , the only sight that enchained his gaze , was the face of the dead woman , the cold eyes fixed upon the ceiling and the black hair , streaked with silver , floating over her clammy forehead . 
Ralph passed his hands through his hair . 
He picked the buttons of his ragged coat . 
And standing by the bed with large , lack-lustre eyes , he continued to thread his matted hair , and pull the buttons of his coat , while Stewel remained like one spell-bound at his side . 
he whispered , turning to Stewel , with a strange grimace on his face . 
And then he laughed . 
Low , and growling through his set teeth , it even made Stewel start aside , as though something unpleasant had stricken him in the face . 
Ralph , who in good sooth , felt in every norve that Death was in the room , but who did not know how to control or to express his feelings , seated himself quietly upon the bed , and laid his hand upon the head of the corpse . 
`` So you 're gone , old woman , '' he muttered , with an idiotic grin upon his face : `` Left us for good -- hey ? 
Thus saying Ralph pulled his matted hair over his eyes , and Stewel by the uncertain light , saw a large tear glitter down the cheek of the ruffian boy . 
`` Go round ` tother side o ' th ' bed , '' answered Ralph -- `` Feel under the pillow . '' 
he exclaimed , pointing to the unconscious man -- `` Where did you say ? 
`` Y-a-a-s , '' muttered Ralph . 
Stewel laid both mace and pistol upon the bed , while his eyes began to tremble with an expression of serene complancency . 
Ralph silently tore the hand from the wrist of the Priest , and lifted the body of the dead woman in his arms . 
When Stewel looked up he was confronted by that half-covered form ; that face , stricken by pestilence in its most loathsome phase , was right before his eyes . 
The fixed eyeballs were glaring upon him ; the naked arms dangling by the side of the corpse , only half concealed by the streaming hair , touched his hands . 
shouted Ralph , and pushed the corpse against the breast of the Police officer . 
At the same intant he seized the mace and pistol , and started to the door . 
cried Ralph as he opened the door , levelling the pistol at the face of Stewel . 
Stewel shrank back horror-stricken from the cold touch of the corpse , and in his effort to release himself from that loathsome contact , he missed his footing and fell to the floor . 
The body of the dead woman , fell heavily upon him , its face close to his own , its hair streaming over his shoulders . 
he heard the voice of Ralph , and then felt the jar of the closing door . 
He was hurrying to the door , when his footsteps were arrested by the Priest , who aroused from his swoon by the action of Ralph , now stood silent and pale , in the centre of the room , his arms folded over his narrow chest . 
He lifted his eyes to the face of Stewel , without raising his downcast head . 
Wonder if he overheerd my talk with Ralph ? 
Ralph in the streets once more ! 
Barefoot , cold and hungry , he was skulking in a narrow alley , which , gloomy at all times , was now dark as midnight . 
Ralph gazed up and down the narrow court ; the shutters were closed , and not a gleam of light , from an upper window , broke the gloom of that desolate haunt . 
Running up and down the snow-covered pavement , Ralph endeavored to restore some warmth to his chilled limbs , but in vain . 
Stopping at last , in very despair , he sank upon a wooden step , muttering as he clenched his hands , this remarkable ejaculation : `` I wish the Old State House bell ` ud ring -- I do . 
In the height of his chagrin , he dashed his cap upon the pavement , at the same time uttering an oath which it is not necessary to repeat . 
Ralph started up , and listened intently , while his heart beat violently against his ragged jacket . 
shouted Ralph at the top of his lungs , as he ran along the alley toward the neighboring street . 
Before the third sound of the bell reaches our ears , Ralph is gone . 
Little does he dream , what singular events -- events connected with his own history -- are now being heralded in every tone of the State House bell ! 
`` This Ann Jones , having an old grudge against your father , stole both you and your brother -- '' `` Ralph , '' ejaculated Fanny . 
He kissed her kindly -- perchance warmly -- on the lips : `` Ralph , your brother , shall go with you -- '' again he pressed his mouth to her lips -- `` and this poor Ann Jones shall be forgiven , and cared for . '' 
And Ralph will be removed from the city , from want , from cold , from misery and temptation ! 
With you on one arm and Ralph on the other , I will lift the latch of the gate , and enter the walk which winds among the trees , up to your father 's door . '' 
cried Fanny , as far below among the busy crowd , she saw a half-naked form reddened by the torch-light : `` It is Ralph ! '' 
This was the state of affairs with him , when Ralph summoned him from the Church of St. John -- where he had wandered under the influence of some lingering trace of early belief -- to the bedside of the dying woman . 
Poor Ralph ! 
While the engines worked by sturdy arms were playing upon the roof , while the smoke and flame rolling into the sky together , alternately illumined and darkened the scene , he stood on the edge of the pavement half naked and barefoot , with his eyes raised to the window in the third story . 
He had secured a plug for the Fairy , and now leaving the Fairy Boys to work the engine , he leaned against a tree-box and made his voice heard above the clamor of the crowd : `` Durn my riggin ! 
But Ralph was before them . 
No sooner had the top of the ladder touched the window sill than his naked feet were upon its rounds , and his hardy visage lifted upward , and reddened by the glare , gazed with its large grey eyes , upon the face of the woman far above , as he ascended with the agility of a monkey in search of cocoa-nuts . 
But Ralph was coming -- he was half way up the ladder -- he would save her . 
But Ralph was rapidly ascending . 
In a moment after the Preacher left the window Ralph 's hand encountered his right foot . 
`` Go back you cuss , '' he shouted , pinching the Preacher in the calf of his leg -- `` Into the winder again , or I 'll chuck you overboard . '' 
The house is on fire -- '' `` O ' cou ` se it is '' answered Ralph , converting his head into a battering ram , and urging the Preacher upward again -- `` Keep movin ' my superfine feller ! 
But Ralph , conscious that the eyes of the Fairy Boys were upon him , propelled the Preacher gently upward , by using his head as a battering ram , and the Preacher 's delicate person as the object of attack . 
cried Ralph as he reached the top of the ladder and found himself face to face with his sister -- `` May I be turned into a Snapper if you do n't look like our Fan ! '' 
`` It is Fan , yes it is Ralph , '' answered the girl flinging her arms about her brother 's neck -- `` O , I am so glad you 're come ! '' 
cried Ralph gazing with big eyes at the changed attire of his sister -- `` Have you found any rich relations , an ' did they set their house a-fire , for joy , at seein ' you ? '' 
`` Go down , Ralph , '' she said , `` when we are safe I 'll tell you all . 
`` You look like a rale super at the theater , '' cried Ralph , beginning his descent , as with one hand placed upon his sister 's dress , he steadied her movements : `` Do n't look below , Fan , and we 're safe ! '' 
And the spectators of the conflagration , held their breath with suspense , as they beheld the form of the girl , descending the ladder , her rich attire contrasted strongly with the ragged apparel of the outcast Ralph . 
At the same moment , Fanny and Ralph had reached the pavement , amid the cheers of the spectators . 
Gazing around the crowd , he beheld the ragged Ralph standing beside his sister , near the foot of the ladder , while Lester was in the arms of a stout citizen who was endeavoring to restore him to consciousness by dashing water into his face . 
And as he looked around , Fanny rushed eagerly toward him , holding Ralph by the hand , while the giant Peter turned to the insensible Lester , and assisted the stout citizen in the effort to restore him from his death-like swoon . 
`` This is Ralph -- this is my brother , '' said Fanny . 
cried Stewel , grasping Ralph by the collar . 
And Ralph who had been listening to the whispered words of the Preacher , started as if he had been aroused in the midst of a dream , and found himself in the hands of Stewel Pydgeon . 
Ralph at first thunderstricken by the apparition of Stewel , now regarded him steadily , surveying his rubicund face with flashing eyes . 
`` Jist let go a-me , '' he said -- `` Or I 'll be apt to raise the Fairy on you . '' 
As he said this , Lester stretched in the arms of Peter , at the foot of the tree-box , unclosed his eyes . 
-- cried Ralph , and Stewel under the influence of a clenched fist , which Ralph had planted between his eyes , fell back upon Lester , and Lester unprepared for this shock , fell once more into the arms of Peter . 
He looked around for Ralph , but Ralph had disappeared . 
`` It is Jervis , '' whispered Lester as he released himself from the arms of Peter , `` Jervis and the daughter of Alice Bayne . '' 
And the tallest of the boys was Ralph Jones , otherwise called `` Jonesey the B'iler . '' 
The other boy was Fanny , the sister of Ralph . 
And the bundle , which looked like a large book , was the TIN BOX , which Ralph had concealed beneath the roof of Girard College . 
While he watched for Goodleigh , the TIN BOX slipped by him , and passed on to Baltimore without an opposing word . 
`` You have heard nothing of Fanny -- or Ralph ? '' 
May he not be the same person who , under an assumed name * * * * * * * * * * * * And thus it appeared that Fanny and Ralph had discovered their Father at last . ' 
Annie and Harry you must bear in mind , have taken the place of Fanny and Ralph ? 
What have you done with Ralph ? 
We arriv ' jist afore dark to-night at Choktipaw , and met Ralph in the woods a little west of the town . 
He spoke of a huntin ' party did he not ? '' 
`` That child looks green , but he ai n't . 
Do you know that he had overheer 'd some conversation between you and that Dr. Baldwin whom you raised from the dead , and consequently he begin to have some suspicions about you . 
When Ralph gits into her room through the balcony , and has a talk , and a very important talk it was , with his sister . 
Fanny and Ralph and your Dr. Baldwin , have gone ahead . 
the Preacher knew the voice , and turning , beheld the form of Ralph , clad in blue jacket and trowsers , with the tin box in his hand : `` To go and run off with a couple o ' orphans in this style ! 
`` It is Peter and Ralph ! '' 
`` We were also at Cattermill 's a little while , '' exclaimed Ralph . 
Ralph laughed at the idea . 
`` And Marvin , '' said Ralph -- `` He told me to-day , as we walked in the fields , that he had looked for God in the clouds long enough . 
Marvin , Cattermill and Ralph , were by no means the only monuments of the redemption , accomplished by his kindly heart and active brain . 
Peter and the young husband begin to converse in low tones , while Ralph and the young wife look significantly into each other 's faces . 
Ralph , completely transformed since we last beheld him , presses his sister 's hand , while his chest heaves and his eyes brighten with emotion . 
whispered Ralph to his sister . 
`` Well , Peter , '' began Ralph , `` Do you really want to know how the Preacher escaped ? '' 
`` I cut him down , '' quietly exclaimed Ralph . 
`` Ralph came into my room , after I had gone to bed , and told me the whole story . 
He told me that not five minutes before , he had left the miserable man , struggling with death , alone in the dark woods . 
I besought Ralph to hurry back and set him free . 
After much entreaty , he consented -- '' `` You had a hard time to persuade me , Fan . 
Ralph ! 
Tell Ralph to hold on to it . 
Hoping that all this , will meet with your cordial approbation , I am yours , & c. `` So Ralph , the tin box is yours at last ! '' 
Ralph was silent . 
He grasped the hand of Charles , and with that silent grasp , spoke the full volume of his gratitude . 
By the light of the rising moon , the party ascended to the hill , and returned to the log-house , Fanny leaning on her husband 's arm , while Ralph and Peter brought up the rear , with young Arthur in their charge . 
Once within the walls of their forest home , Ralph drew Charles aside , and whispered `` The tin box -- I 'd like to speak with you about it . '' 
Placing the light on a desk , which supported a small book case , Charles opened a drawer , and Ralph presently beheld the tin box -- for the first time in five years . 
Ralph 's visage , entirely changed from its old-time look of precocious suffering and stolid defiance , was agitated in every lineament . 
`` Take it Ralph . 
Ralph took the box and placed it under his arm . 
Fifteen thousand dollars in gold and bank notes , were now altogether his own . 
He left the room abruptly and passed from the house , followed by Charles , who did not know what to make of his movements . 
Once more in the moonlight , Ralph seized a spade , and hurried down the path which led to the river . 
And as they clasped hands over the grave of the Tin Box it was resolved by Charles and Ralph to leave it rest there , until the year 1849 , when -LRB- in case Ralph changed his mind , and desired to leave the free forest for the enslaved city , -RRB- it should be brought forth to light once more . 
