There had been , he admitted , a trivial blemish or so in its rate of progress , but this was exaggerated , and had been entirely owing to the `` parsimony of the public ; '' which guilty public , it appeared , had been until lately bent in the most determined manner on by no means enlarging the number of Chancery Judges appointed -- I believe by Richard the Second , but any other King will do as well . 
The young gentleman was her distant cousin , she told me , and his name Richard Carstone . 
Our all three coming together for the first time , in such an unusual place , was a thing to talk about ; and we talked about it ; and the fire , which had left off roaring , winked its red eyes at us -- as Richard said -- like a drowsy old Chancery lion . 
`` Young Mr. Richard Carstone is present ? '' 
Richard bowed and stepped forward . 
`` Mr. Jarndyce of Bleak House , my lord , '' Mr. Kenge observed , in a low voice , `` if I may venture to remind your lordship , provides a suitable companion for -- '' `` For Mr. Richard Carstone ? '' 
Mr. Kenge now retired , and Richard with him , to where I was , near the door , leaving my pet -LRB- it is so natural to me that again I ca n't help it ! -RRB- 
Presently he rose courteously , and released her , and then he spoke for a minute or two with Richard Carstone ; not seated , but standing , and altogether with more ease and less ceremony -- as if he still knew , though he was Lord Chancellor , how to go straight to the candor of a boy . 
said Richard Carstone , `` that 's over ! 
`` Not in the least , '' said he . 
whispered Richard , not thinking she could hear him . 
Mad , young gentleman , '' she returned so quickly that he was quite abashed . 
`` Perhaps Mr. Carstone -- or Miss Clare -- '' But no , they knew nothing whatever about Mrs. Jellyby . 
suggested Richard . 
said Richard with a droll look . 
lively hope that it will conduce to the happiness , the -LRB- glad to have had the honor of making your acquaintance , Mr. Carstone ! -RRB- 
said Richard , as we went down stairs . 
This was so favorably received by the milkman and beadle , that he would immediately have been pushed into the area , if I had not held his pinafore , while Richard and Mr. Guppy ran down through the kitchen , to catch him when he should be released . 
Mrs. Jellyby , whose face reflected none of the uneasiness which we could not help showing in our own faces , as the dear child 's head recorded its passage with a bump on every stair -- Richard afterwards said he counted seven , besides one for the landing -- received us with perfect equanimity . 
As if -- I am quoting Richard again -- they could see nothing nearer than Africa ! 
Her being so employed was , I must say , a great relief to me ; for Richard told us that he had washed his hands in a pie-dish , and that they had found the kettle on his dressing-table ; and he made Ada laugh so , that they made me laugh in the most ridiculous manner . 
She told us a great deal that was interesting about Borrioboola-Gha and the natives ; and received so many letters that Richard , who sat by her , saw four envelopes in the gravy at once . 
It was not until we left the table , and he remained alone with Richard , that the possibility of his being Mr. Jellyby ever entered my head . 
It seemed that he had several times opened his mouth when alone with Richard , after dinner , as if he had something on his mind ; but had always shut it again , to Richard 's extreme confusion , without saying anything . 
Richard had received a similar letter , and had made a similar response . 
He had seen Mr. Jarndyce once , but only once , five years ago , at Winchester school . 
But before we met the cook , we met Richard , who was dancing up and down Tavies Inn to warm his feet . 
He was agreeably surprised to see us stirring so soon , and said he would gladly share our walk . 
So he took care of Ada , and Miss Jellyby and I went first . 
I was saved the disagreeable necessity of pursuing the subject , by Richard and Ada coming up at a round pace , laughing , and asking us if we meant to run a race ? 
`` So , cousin , '' said the cheerful voice of Richard to Ada , behind me . 
Richard , anxious to atone for his thoughtlessness of yesterday , good-naturedly explained that Miss Jellyby was not connected with the suit . 
She had taken my hand , and , leading me and Miss Jellyby away , beckoned Richard and Ada to come too . 
I did not know how to excuse myself , and looked to Richard for aid . 
As he was half amused and half curious , and all in doubt how to get rid of the old lady without offence , she continued to lead us away , and he and Ada continued to follow ; our strange conductress informing us all the time , with much smiling condescension , that she lived close by . 
One had only to fancy , as Richard whispered to Ada and me while we all stood looking in , that yonder bones in a corner , piled together and picked very clean , were the bones of clients , to make the picture complete . 
We naturally drew back and glanced at our conductress , who had been trying to open the house door with a key she had taken from her pocket , and to whom Richard now said , that , as we had had the pleasure of seeing where she lived , we would leave her , being pressed for time . 
we all went in , stimulated by Richard 's laughing encouragement , and relying on his protection . 
`` My landlord , Krook , '' said the little old lady , condescending to him from her lofty station , as she presented him to us . 
She shook her head a great many times , and tapped her forehead with her finger , to express to us that we must have the goodness to excuse him , `` For he is a little -- you know ! 
said Richard , rather carelessly . 
said Richard , strongly disapproving of his having drawn one of Ada 's tresses through his yellow hand . 
The old man darted at him a sudden look , which even called my attention from Ada , who , startled and blushing , was so remarkably beautiful that she seemed to fix the wandering attention of the little old lady herself . 
He seemed so rapt all in a moment , and looked so curiously at us , that Richard said : `` Why you appear to trouble yourself a good deal about the causes before your noble and learned brother , the other Chancellor ! '' 
Your name now will be -- '' `` Richard Carstone . '' 
`` Carstone , '' he repeated , slowly checking off that name upon his forefinger ; and each of the others he went on to mention , upon a separate finger . 
`` He knows as much of the cause as the real salaried Chancellor ! '' 
said Richard , quite astonished , to Ada and me . 
Ada 's color had entirely left her , and Richard was scarcely less pale . 
Richard , answering what he saw in Ada 's compassionate eyes , took the opportunity of laying some money , softly and unobserved , on the chimney-piece . 
N2504005 Richard and Ada , and Miss Jellyby , and the little old lady , had gone by him , and I was going , when he touched me on the arm to stay me , and chalked the letter J upon the wall -- in a very curious manner , beginning with the end of the letter and shaping it backward . 
he asked me with a keen glance . 
`` J. '' With another glance at me , and a glance at the door , he rubbed it out , and turned an a in its place -LRB- not a capital letter this time -RRB- , and said , `` What 's that ? '' 
I told him . 
He then rubbed that out , and turned the letter r , and asked me the same question . 
He went on quickly , until he had formed , in the same curious manner , beginning at the ends and bottoms of the letters , the word Jarndyce , without once leaving two letters on the wall together . 
He looked so disagreeable , and his cat looked so wickedly at me , as if I were a blood-relation of the birds upstairs , that I was quite relieved by Richard 's appearing at the door and saying : `` Miss Summerson , I hope you are not bargaining for the sale of your hair . 
said Richard , with a sigh . 
said Richard . 
`` Of course you may , cousin Richard . '' 
`` Never , I hope , cousin Richard ! '' 
`` The whole road has been reminding me of my namesake Whittington , '' said Richard , `` and that waggon is the finishing touch . 
Its music changed as the horses came to a stand , and subsided to a gentle tinkling , except when a horse tossed his head , or shook himself , and sprinkled off a little shower of bell-ringing . 
`` Our postilion is looking after the waggoner , '' said Richard ; `` and the waggoner is coming back after us . 
added Richard , looking closely at the man . 
He had all our names in his hat . 
Tucked within the band , were three small notes ; one , addressed to Ada ; one , to Richard ; one , to me . 
In answer to Richard 's inquiry from whom they came , he briefly answered , `` Master , sir , if you please ; '' and , putting on his hat again -LRB- which was like a soft bowl -RRB- , cracked his whip , re-awakened his music , and went melodiously away . 
said Richard , calling to our postboy . 
`` Yes , sir , '' he replied . 
The notes revived , in Richard and Ada , a general impression that they both had , without quite knowing how they came by it , that their cousin Jarndyce could never bear acknowledgments for any kindness he performed , and that , sooner than receive any , he would resort to the most singular expedients and evasions , or would even run away . 
By that time we were so anxious and nervous , that even Richard confessed , as we rattled over the stones of the old street , to feeling an irrational desire to drive back again . 
As to Ada and me , whom he had wrapped up with great care , the night being sharp and frosty , we trembled from head to foot . 
When we turned out of the town , round a corner , and Richard told us that the post-boy , who had for a long time sympathised with our heightened expectation , was looking back and nodding , we both stood up in the carriage -LRB- Richard holding Ada , lest she should be jolted down -RRB- , and gazed round upon the open country and the star-light night , for our destination . 
Richard shook him by both hands with an intuitive mixture of respect and frankness , and only saying -LRB- though with an earnestness that rather alarmed me , I was so afraid of Mr. Jarndyce 's suddenly disappearing -RRB- , `` You are very kind , sir ! 
`` We rather thought , '' said I , glancing at Richard and Ada , who entreated me with their eyes to speak , `` that perhaps she was a little unmindful of her home . '' 
`` The little Jellybys , '' said Richard , coming to my relief , `` are really -- I ca n't help expressing myself strongly , sir -- in a devil of a state . '' 
`` It was in the north , sir , as we came down , '' observed Richard . 
said Richard . 
He gave an arm to Ada and an arm to me , and bidding Richard bring a candle , was leading the way out , when he suddenly turned us all back again . 
From these , you came on Richard 's room , which was part library , part sitting-room , part bed-room , and seemed indeed a comfortable compound of many rooms . 
inquired Richard . 
inquired Richard . 
Richard observed that the situation was exposed on a sharp night . 
When we went down stairs , we were presented to Mr. Skimpole , who was standing before the fire , telling Richard how fond he used to be , in his school-time , of football . 
He was a little bright creature , with a rather large head ; but a delicate face , and a sweet voice , and there was a perfect charm in him . 
All he said was so free from effort and spontaneous , and was said with such a captivating gaiety , that it was fascinating to hear him talk . 
I felt it a merited tribute to the engaging qualities of Ada and Richard , that Mr. Skimpole , seeing them for the first time , should be so unreserved , and should lay himself out to be so exquisitely agreeable . 
They -LRB- and especially Richard -RRB- were naturally pleased for similar reasons , and considered it no common privilege to be so freely confided in by such an attractive man . 
In the evening when I was preparing to make tea , and Ada was touching the piano in the adjoining room and softly humming a tune to her cousin Richard , which they had happened to mention , he came and sat down on the sofa near me , and so spoke of Ada that I almost loved him . 
`` She is like the morning , '' he said . 
Mr. Jarndyce , I found , was standing near us , with his hands behind him , and an attentive smile upon his face . 
`` The universe , '' he observed , `` makes rather an indifferent parent , I am afraid . '' 
Ada sat at the piano ; Richard stood beside her , bending down . 
Secondly , though Mr. Jarndyce 's glance , as he withdrew it , rested for but a moment on me , I felt as if , in that moment , he confided to me -- and knew that he confided to me , and that I received the confidence -- his hope that Ada and Richard might one day enter on a dearer relationship . 
After tea we had quite a little concert , in which Richard -- who was enthralled by Ada 's singing , and told me that she seemed to know all the songs that ever were written -- and Mr. Jarndyce , and I , were the audience . 
After a little while I missed , first Mr. Skimpole , and afterwards Richard ; and while I was thinking how could Richard stay away so long , and lose so much , the maid who had given me the keys looked in at the door , saying , `` If you please , miss , could you spare a minute ? '' 
When I was shut out with her in the hall , she said , holding up her hands , `` Oh if you please , miss , Mr. Carstone says would you come upstairs to Mr. Skimpole 's room . 
I was apprehensive that his illness might be of a dangerous kind ; but of course , I begged her to be quiet and not disturb any one ; and collected myself , as I followed her quickly upstairs , sufficiently to consider what were the best remedies to be applied if it should prove to be a fit . 
She threw open a door , and I went into a chamber ; where , to my unspeakable surprise , instead of finding Mr. Skimpole stretched upon the bed , or prostrate on the floor , I found him standing before the fire smiling at Richard , while Richard , with a face of great embarrassment , looked at a person on a sofa , in a white great coat , with smooth hair upon his head and not much of it , which he was wiping smoother , and making less of , with a pocket-handkerchief . 
`` Miss Summerson , '' said Richard , hurriedly , `` I am glad you are come . 
`` Mr. Skimpole , '' said Richard to me , `` has a delicacy in applying to my cousin Jarndyce , because he has lately -- I think , sir , I understood you that you had lately -- '' `` Oh , yes ! '' 
Jarndyce would readily do it again ; but I have the epicure-like feeling that I would prefer a novelty in help ; that I would rather , '' and he looked at Richard and me , `` develop generosity in a new soil , and in a new form of flower . '' 
said Richard , aside . 
Richard and I looked at one another again . 
`` I thought , '' he suggested , as if good-naturedly to help us out , `` that , being parties in a Chancery suit concerning -LRB- as people say -RRB- a large amount of property , Mr. Richard , or his beautiful cousin , or both , could sign something , or make over something , or give some sort of undertaking , or pledge , or bond ? 
`` Now , my dear Miss Summerson , and my dear Mr. Richard , '' said Mr. Skimpole , gaily , innocently , and confidingly , as he looked at his drawing with his head on one side ; `` here you see me utterly incapable of helping myself , and entirely in your hands ! 
`` My dear Miss Summerson , '' said Richard , in a whisper , `` I have ten pounds that I received from Mr. Kenge . 
I told Richard of my having this little store , and having no present need of it ; and I asked him delicately to inform Mr. Skimpole , while I should be gone to fetch it , that we would have the pleasure of paying his debt . 
Richard , begging me , for the greater grace of the transaction , as he said , to settle with Coavinses -LRB- as Mr. Skimpole now jocularly called him -RRB- , I counted out the money and received the necessary acknowledgment . 
Mr. Skimpole presently appeared , and Richard shortly after him . 
But I thought , occasionally when Mr. Skimpole played some fragments of his own compositions ; or when , both at the piano and the violoncello , and at our table , he preserved , with an absence of all effort , his delightful spirits and his easy flow of conversation ; that Richard and I seemed to retain the transferred impression of having been arrested since dinner , and that it was very curious altogether . 
Ada and Richard were lingering for a few moments by the fire , wondering whether Mrs. Jellyby had yet finished her dictation for the day , when Mr. Jarndyce , who had been out of the room , returned . 
`` Really , sir , '' said Richard , `` I do n't think it would be honorable in me to tell you . 
''' Richard laughed heartily , but added , `` Still , sir , I do n't want to shake his confidence , or to break his confidence ; and if I submit to your better knowledge again , that I ought to keep his secret , I hope you will consider before you press me any more . 
We all promised faithfully ; Richard , with a merry glance at me , touching his pocket , as if to remind me that there was no danger of our transgressing . 
Neither did I try ; for my thoughts were busy when I was alone , with Ada and Richard , and with the confidence I had seemed to receive concerning them . 
`` Perhaps it would be best , first of all , '' said I , `` to ask Mr. Richard what he inclines to himself . '' 
You know , just accustom yourself to talk it over , with your tact and in your quiet way , with him and Ada , and see , what you all make of it . 
I had not meant this at all ; I had meant that he should speak to Richard . 
Ada was so full of grief all the way home , and Richard , whom we found at home , was so distressed to see her in tears -LRB- though he said to me when she was not present , how beautiful it was too ! -RRB- 
Richard accompanied us at night to the scene of our morning expedition . 
Generally in the afternoons , and always in the evenings , Richard gave us his company . 
Although he was one of the most restless creatures in the world , he certainly was very fond of our society . 
He was very , very , very fond of Ada . 
`` Our dear little old woman is such a capital old woman , '' Richard would say , coming up to meet me in the garden early , with his pleasant laugh and perhaps the least tinge of a blush , `` that I ca n't get on without her . 
Perhaps Richard was going to be a sailor . 
We had talked it over very often , now , and there was some talk of gratifying the inclination of his childhood for the sea . 
Mr. Jarndyce had written to a relation of the family , a great Sir Leicester Dedlock , for his interest in Richard 's favor , generally ; and Sir Leicester had replied in a gracious manner , `` that he would be happy to advance the prospects of the young gentleman if it should ever prove to be within his power , which was not at all probable -- and that my Lady sent her compliments to the young gentleman -LRB- to whom she perfectly remembered that she was allied by remote consanguinity -RRB- , and trusted that he would ever do his duty in any honorable profession to which he might devote himself . '' 
`` So I apprehend it 's pretty clear , '' said Richard to me , `` that I shall have to work my own way . 
With a buoyancy and hopefulness and a gaiety that hardly ever flagged , Richard had a carelessness in his character that quite perplexed me -- principally because he mistook it , in such a very odd way , for prudence . 
It entered into all his calculations about money , in a singular manner , which I do n't think I can better explain than by reverting for a moment to our loan to Mr. Skimpole . 
Mr. Jarndyce had ascertained the amount , either from Mr. Skimpole himself or from Coavinses , and had placed the money in my hands with instructions to me to retain my own part of it and hand the rest to Richard . 
The number of little acts of thoughtless expenditure which Richard justified by the recovery of his ten pounds , and the number of times he talked to me as if he had saved or realised that amount , would form a sum in simple addition . 
he said to me , when he wanted , without the least consideration , to bestow five pounds on the brickmaker . 
returned Richard . 
In exactly the same way , when he was persuaded out of the sacrifice of these five pounds by being convinced that it would do no good , he carried that sum to his credit and drew upon it . 
he would say . 
I believe Richard 's was as frank and generous a nature as there possibly can be . 
He was ardent and brave , and , in the midst of all his wild restlessness , was so gentle , that I knew him like a brother in a few weeks . 
His gentleness was natural to him , and would have shown itself , abundantly , even without Ada 's influence ; but , with it , he became one of the most winning of companions , always so ready to be interested , and always so happy , sanguine , and light-hearted . 
asked Richard . 
He was not only a very handsome old gentleman -- upright and stalwart as he had been described to us -- with a massive grey head , a fine composure of face when silent , a figure that might have become corpulent but for his being so continually in earnest that he gave it no rest , and a chin that might have subsided into a double chin but for the vehement emphasis in which it was constantly required to assist ; but he was such a true gentleman in his manner , so chivalrously polite , his face was lighted by a smile of so much sweetness and tenderness , and it seemed so plain that he had nothing to hide , but showed himself exactly as he was -- incapable -LRB- as Richard said -RRB- of anything on a limited scale , and firing away with those blank great guns , because he carried no small arms whatever -- that really I could not help looking at him with equal pleasure as he sat at dinner , whether he smilingly conversed with Ada and me , or was led by Mr. Jarndyce into some great volley of superlatives , or threw up his head like a blood-hound , and gave out that tremendous Ha , ha , ha ! 
said my Guardian laughingly , to Ada and Richard . 
`` I would beg Miss Clare 's pardon and Mr. Carstone 's pardon , '' resumed our visitor , `` if I were not reassured by seeing in the fair face of the lady , and the smile of the gentleman , that it is quite unnecessary , and that they keep their distant relation at a comfortable distance . '' 
`` Or he keeps us , '' suggested Richard . 
To hear him say all this with unimaginable energy , one might have thought him the angriest of mankind . 
To see him , at the very same time , looking at the bird now perched upon his thumb , and softly smoothing its feathers with his forefinger , one might have thought him the gentlest . 
To hear him laugh , and see the broad good-nature of his face then , one might have supposed that he had not a care in the world , or a dispute , or a dislike , but that his whole existence was a summer joke . 
`` No , no , '' he said , `` no closing up of my paths , by any Dedlock ! 
Though I willingly confess , '' here he softened in a moment , `` that Lady Dedlock is the most accomplished lady in the world , to whom I would do any homage that a plain gentleman , and no baronet with a head seven hundred years thick , may . 
I saw him so often , in the course of the evening , which passed very pleasantly , contemplate Richard and Ada with an interest and a satisfaction that made his fine face remarkably agreeable as he sat at a little distance from the piano listening to the music -- and he had small occasion to tell us that he was passionately fond of music , for his face showed it -- that I asked my Guardian , as we sat at the backgammon board , whether Mr. Boythorn had ever been married . 
As it was the day of the week on which I paid the bills , and added up my books , and made all the household affairs as compact as possible , I remained at home while Mr. Jarndyce , Ada , and Richard , took advantage of a very fine day to make a little excursion . 
We held many consultations about what Richard was to be ; first , without Mr. Jarndyce , as he had requested , and afterwards with him ; but it was a long time before we seemed to make progress . 
Richard said he was ready for anything . 
When Mr. Jarndyce doubted whether he might not already be too old to enter the Navy , Richard said he had thought of that , and perhaps he was . 
When Mr. Jarndyce asked him what he thought of the Army , Richard said he had thought of that , too , and it was n't a bad idea . 
When Mr. Jarndyce advised him to try and decide within himself , whether his old preference for the sea was an ordinary boyish inclination , or a strong impulse , Richard answered . 
Well , he really had tried very often , and he could n't make out . 
I felt this to be true ; though , if I may venture to mention what I thought besides , I thought it much to be regretted that Richard 's education had not counteracted those influences , or directed his character . 
He had been eight years at a public school , and had learnt , I understood , to make Latin Verses of several sorts , in the most admirable manner . 
But I never heard that it had been anybody 's business to find out what his natural bent was , or where his failings lay , or to adapt any kind of knowledge to him . 
He had been adapted to the Verses , and had learnt the art of making them to such perfection , that if he had remained at school until he was of age , I suppose he could only have gone on making them over and over again , unless he had enlarged his education by forgetting how to do it . 
Still , although I had no doubt that they were very beautiful , and very improving , and very sufficient for a great many purposes of life , and always remembered all through life , I did doubt whether Richard would not have profited by some one studying him a little , instead of his studying them quite so much . 
`` I have n't the least idea , '' said Richard , musing , `` what I had better be . 
replied Richard . 
cried Richard . 
I doubt if he had ever once thought of it before . 
repeated Richard , with the greatest enthusiasm . 
He was not to be laughed out of it , though he laughed at it heartily . 
He said he had chosen his profession , and the more he thought of it , the more he felt that his destiny was clear ; the art of healing was the art of all others for him . 
Mistrusting that he only came to this conclusion , because , having never had much chance of finding out for himself what he was fitted for , and having never been guided to the discovery , he was taken by the newest idea , and was glad to get rid of the trouble of consideration , I wondered whether the Latin Verses often ended in this , or whether Richard 's was a solitary case . 
Richard was a little grave after these interviews ; but invariably told Ada and me `` that it was all right , '' and then began to talk about something else . 
As Richard still continued to say that he was fixed in his choice , after repeated periods for consideration had been recommended by Mr. Jarndyce , and had expired ; and as he still continued to assure Ada and me , in the same final manner , that it was `` all right ; '' it became advisable to take Mr. Kenge into council . 
`` The course of study and preparation requires to be diligently pursued , '' observed my Guardian , with a glance at Richard . 
`` And Mr. Richard Carstone , who has so meritoriously acquitted himself in the -- shall I say the classic shades ? 
-- in which his youth had been passed , will , no doubt , apply the habits , if not the principles and practice , of versification in that tongue in which a poet was said -LRB- unless I mistake -RRB- to be born , not made , to the more eminently practical field of action on which he enters . '' 
`` You may rely upon it , '' said Richard , in his off-hand manner , `` that I shall go at it , and do my best . '' 
`` Really , when we are assured by Mr. Richard that he means to go at it , and to do his best , '' nodding feelingly and smoothly over those expressions ; `` I would submit to you , that we have only to inquire into the best mode of carrying out the object of his ambition . 
Now , with reference to placing Mr. Richard with some sufficiently eminent practitioner . 
`` No one , sir , '' said Richard , `` Quite so ! '' 
`` N -- no , '' said Richard . 
`` I should like a little variety , '' said Richard ; '' -- I mean a good range of experience . '' 
We shall soon be -- shall I say , in Mr. Richard 's own light-hearted manner , ` going at it ' -- to our heart 's content . 
And as Mr. Jarndyce had before proposed to take us to London for a few weeks , it was settled next day that we should make our visit at once , and combine Richard 's business with it . 
I was sitting in front of the box one night with Ada ; and Richard was in the place he liked best , behind Ada 's chair ; when , happening to look down into the pit , I saw Mr. Guppy , with his hair flattened down upon his head , and woe depicted in his face , looking up at me . 
As to escaping Mr. Guppy by going to the back of the box , I could not bear to do that ; because I knew Richard and Ada relied on having me next them , and that they could never have talked together so happily if any body else had been in my place . 
Sometimes , I thought of confiding in Richard ; but was deterred by the possibility of his fighting Mr. Guppy , and giving him black eyes . 
He was quite willing to receive Richard into his house , and to superintend his studies ; and as it seemed that those could be pursued advantageously under Mr. Badger 's roof , and as Mr. Badger liked Richard , and as Richard said he liked Mr. Badger `` well enough , '' an agreement was made , the Lord Chancellor 's consent was obtained , and it was all settled . 
On the day when matters were concluded between Richard and Mr. Badger , we were all under engagement to dine at Mr. Badger 's house . 
That without any affectation of disparaging such professional distinction as I may have attained -LRB- which our friend Mr. Carstone will have many opportunities of estimating -RRB- , I am not so weak -- no , really , '' said Mr. Badger to us generally , `` so unreasonable -- as to put my reputation on the same footing with such first-rate men as Captain Swosser and Professor Dingo . 
Now , I observed that evening , as I had observed for some days past , that Ada and Richard were more than ever attached to each other 's society ; which was but natural , seeing that they were going to be separated so soon . 
`` It 's about -- my cousin Richard ! '' 
`` And what about him ? '' 
`` He says -- I know it 's very foolish , we are both so young -- but he says , '' with a burst of tears , `` that he loves me dearly , Esther . '' 
`` Does he indeed ? '' 
Your cousin Richard has been loving you as plainly as he could , for I do n't know how long ! '' 
`` We want to speak to him before Richard goes , '' said Ada , timidly , `` and we wanted you to advise us , and to tell him so . 
Perhaps you would n't mind Richard 's coming in , Dame Durden ? '' 
Richard is outside , is he , my dear ? '' 
said I. `` I am not quite certain , '' returned Ada , with a bashful simplicity that would have won my heart , if she had not won it long before ; `` but I think he 's waiting at the door . '' 
Richard said that he would work his fingers to the bone for Ada , and Ada said that she would work her fingers to the bone for Richard , and they called me all sorts of endearing and sensible names , and we sat there , advising and talking , half the night . 
`` Because , '' said I , `` Ada and Richard have fallen in love . 
When they came , he encircled Ada with one arm , in his fatherly way , and addressed himself to Richard with a cheerful gravity . 
`` We look afar off , sir , '' returned Richard , `` Well ! '' 
`` I am very sure , sir , '' returned Richard , `` that I speak for Ada , too , when I say that you have the strongest power over us both -- rooted in respect , gratitude , and affection -- strengthening every day , '' `` Dear cousin John , '' said Ada , on his shoulder , `` my father 's place can never be empty again . 
`` I will leave it here , sir , '' replied Richard , smiling , `` if I brought it here just now -LRB- but I hope I did not -RRB- , and will work my way on to my cousin Ada in the hopeful distance . '' 
`` I would n't make her unhappy -- no , not even for her love , '' retorted Richard , proudly . 
Ada tenderly embraced him , and Richard heartily shook hands with him , and then the cousins went out of the room -- looking back again directly , though , to say that they would wait for me . 
Richard with his head bent , and her hand drawn through his arm , was talking to her very earnestly ; and she looked up in his face , listening , and seemed to see nothing else . 
Richard left us on the very next evening , to begin his new career , and committed Ada to my charge with great love for her , and great trust in me . 
I was to write to Richard once a week , making my faithful report of Ada who was to write to him every alternate day . 
I was to be informed , under his own hand , of all his labors and successes ; I was to observe how resolute and persevering he would be ; I was to be Ada 's bridesmaid when they were married ; I was to live with them afterwards ; I was to keep all the keys of their house ; I was to be made happy for ever and a day . 
said Richard , to crown all . 
`` My dearest Ada , '' asked Richard , pausing , `` why not ? '' 
I do n't know about that , '' returned Richard ; `` but , at all events , it wo n't declare anything at once . 
`` Yes , but , '' urged Richard , answering what her look suggested rather than her words , `` the longer it goes on , dear cousin , the nearer it must be to a settlement one way or other . 
`` You know best , Richard . 
cried Richard gaily . 
cried Richard , `` then we will forget all about it ! 
`` Dame Durden 's approving face , '' said I , looking out of the box in which I was packing his books , `` was not very visible when you called it by that name ; but it does approve , and she thinks you ca n't do better . '' 
So , Richard said there was an end of it , -- and immediately began , on no other foundation , to build as many castles in the air as would man the great wall of China . 
He went away in high spirits . 
Ada and I , prepared to miss him very much , commenced our quieter career . 
I was sitting at the window with my Guardian , on the following morning , and Ada was busy writing -- of course to Richard -- when Miss Jellyby was announced , and entered , leading the identical Peepy , whom she had made some endeavours to render presentable , by wiping the dirt into corners of his face and hands , and making his hair very wet and then violently frizzling it with her fingers . 
Everything the dear child wore , was either too large for him or too small . 
Among his other contradictory decorations he had the hat of a Bishop , and the little gloves of a baby . 
Or , that when they were all gone , and I said to Ada , `` Now , my darling , let us have a little talk about Richard ! '' 
Richard very often came to see us while we remained in London -LRB- though he soon failed in his letter-writing -RRB- , and with his quick abilities , his good spirits , his good temper , his gaiety and freshness , was always delightful . 
But , though I liked him more and more , the better I knew him , I still felt more and more how much it was to be regretted that he had been educated in no habits of application and concentration . 
The system which had addressed him in exactly the same manner as it had addressed hundreds of other boys , all varying in character and capacity , had enabled him to dash through his tasks , always with fair credit , and often with distinction ; but in a fitful , dazzling way that had confirmed his reliance on those very qualities in himself , which it had been most desirable to direct and train . 
If they had been under Richard 's direction , they would have been his friends ; but , Richard being under their direction , they became his enemies . 
These were my thoughts about Richard . 
I thought I often observed besides , how right my guardian was in what he had said ; and that the uncertainties and delays of the Chancery suit had imparted to his nature something of the careless spirit of a gamester , who felt that he was part of a great gaming system . 
Mr. and Mrs. Bayham Badger coming one afternoon , when my guardian was not at home , in the course of conversation I naturally inquired after Richard . 
`` Why , Mr. Carstone , '' said Mrs. Badger , `` is very well , and is , I assure you , a great acquisition to our society . 
I may render the same tribute , I am sure , to Mr. Carstone . 
I therefore have not come to the consideration of Mr. Carstone as a Neophyte . 
`` My dear Miss Summerson , '' she replied , `` on Mr. Carstone 's character and conduct . 
He is of such a very easy disposition , that probably he would never think it worth while to mention how he really feels ; but , he feels languid about the profession . 
He has not that positive interest in it which makes it his vocation . 
If he has any decided impression in reference to it , I should say it was that it is a tiresome pursuit . 
But I am quite convinced that this would never be the case with Mr. Carstone . '' 
We agreed to say nothing to Mr. Jarndyce until we had spoken to Richard ; and , as he was coming next evening , we resolved to have a very serious talk with him . 
So , after he had been a little while with Ada , I went in and found my darling -LRB- as I knew she would be -RRB- prepared to consider him thoroughly right in whatever he said . 
`` And how do you get on , Richard ? '' 
said I. I always sat down on the other side of him . 
He made quite a sister of me . 
said Richard . 
`` He ca n't say better than that , Esther , can he ? '' 
`` Yes , '' said Richard , `` well enough . 
my dear Richard ! '' 
said Richard . 
`` I do n't think there 's any harm in that , Dame Durden , '' said Ada , looking so confidingly at me across him ! 
`` O yes , I hope so , '' returned Richard , carelessly tossing his hair from his forehead . 
`` No , but Richard , '' said I , `` and my dear Ada ! 
Consider how important it is to you both , and what a point of honour it is towards your cousin , that you , Richard , should be quite in earnest without any reservation . 
`` But I think Richard is right . '' 
What was the use of my trying to look wise , when she was so pretty , and so engaging , and so fond of him ! 
`` Mr. and Mrs. Badger were here yesterday , Richard , '' said I , `` and they seemed disposed to think that you had no great liking for the profession . '' 
said Richard , `` O ! 
`` You hear him , Ada ! '' 
said I. `` The fact is , '' Richard proceeded , half thoughtfully and half jocosely , `` it is not quite in my way . 
`` Then , '' pursued Richard , `` it 's monotonous , and to-day is too like yesterday , and to-morrow is too like to-day . '' 
returned Richard , still considering . 
Why , then , you know , '' he added , suddenly becoming gay again , `` we travel outside a circle , to what I said just now . 
So I thought it a good opportunity to hint to Richard , that if he were sometimes a little careless of himself , I was very sure he never meant to be careless of Ada ; and that it was a part of his affectionate consideration for her , not to slight the importance of a step that might influence both their lives . 
This made him almost grave . 
`` My dear Mother Hubbard , '' he said , `` that 's the very thing ! 
said Richard , with an air of vexation . 
I tried again ; but how could I do it , or how could it have any effect if I could , while Ada rested her clasped hands upon his shoulder , and while he looked at her tender blue eyes , and while they looked at him ! 
`` You see , my precious girl , '' said Richard , passing her golden curls through and through his hand , `` I was a little hasty , perhaps ; or I misunderstood my own inclinations , perhaps . 
`` My dear Richard , '' said I , `` how can you say about nothing particular ? '' 
`` I do n't mean absolutely that , '' he returned . 
I then asked Richard whether he had thought of any more congenial pursuit ? 
`` There , my dear Mrs. Shipton , '' said Richard , `` you touch me home . 
`` If I went into Kenge 's office , '' said Richard , `` and if I were placed under articles to Kenge , I should have my eye on the -- hum ! 
I was not by any means so sure of that ; and I saw how his hankering after the vague things yet to come of those long-deferred hopes , cast a shade on Ada 's face . 
But I thought it best to encourage him in any project of continuous exertion , and only advised him to be quite sure that his mind was made up now . 
`` My dear Minerva , '' said Richard , `` I am as steady as you are . 
That is , you know , '' said Richard , relapsing into doubt , `` if it really is worth while , after all , to make such a disturbance about nothing particular ! '' 
But , we so strongly advised Richard to be frank and open with Mr. Jarndyce , without a moment 's delay ; and his disposition was naturally so opposed to concealment ; that he sought him out at once -LRB- taking us with him -RRB- , and made a full avowal . 
Richard 's energy was of such an impatient and fitful kind , that he would have liked nothing better than to have gone to Mr. Kenge 's office in that hour , and to have entered into articles with him on the spot . 
My guardian was very kind and cordial with him , but rather grave ; enough so to cause Ada , when he had departed and we were going up-stairs to bed , to say : `` Cousin John , I hope you do n't think the worse of Richard ? '' 
`` Because it was very natural that Richard should be mistaken in such a difficult case . 
`` But I should be a little so , if you thought at all the worse of Richard . '' 
`` My dear , '' said Mr. Jarndyce , `` I should think the worse of him , only if you were ever in the least unhappy through his means . 
`` No , indeed , cousin John , '' said Ada , `` I am sure I could not -- I am sure I would not -- think any ill of Richard , if the whole world did . 
I could , and I would , think better of him then , than at any other time ! '' 
I well remembered the look with which he had contemplated her and Richard , when she was singing in the fire-light ; it was but a very little while since he had watched them passing down the room in which the sun was shining , and away into the shade ; but , his glance was changed , and even the silent look of confidence in me which now followed it once more , was not quite so hopeful and untroubled as it had originally been . 
Ada praised Richard more to me , that night , than ever she had praised him yet . 
She went to sleep , with a little bracelet he had given her clasped upon her arm . 
I fancied she was dreaming of him when I kissed her cheek after she had slept an hour , and saw how tranquil and happy she looked . 
It was not so easy as it had appeared at first , to arrange for Richard 's making a trial of Mr. Kenge 's office . 
Richard himself was the chief impediment . 
As soon as he had it in his power to leave Mr. Badger at any moment , he began to doubt whether he wanted to leave him at all . 
He did n't know , he said , really . 
It was n't a bad profession ; he could n't assert that he disliked it ; perhaps he liked it as well as he liked any other -- suppose he gave it one more chance ! 
Upon that , he shut himself up , for a few weeks , with some books and some bones , and seemed to acquire a considerable fund of information with great rapidity . 
His fervor , after lasting about a month , began to cool ; and when it was quite cooled , began to grow warm again . 
His vacillations between law and medicine lasted so long , that Midsummer arrived before he finally separated from Mr. Badger , and entered on an experimental course of Messrs. Kenge and Carboy . 
`` As to Mr. Jarndyce , '' who , I may mention , found the wind much given , during this period , to sticking in the east ; `` As to Mr. Jarndyce , '' Richard would say to me , `` he is the finest fellow in the world , Esther ! 
The idea of his taking himself well to task , with that laughing face and heedless manner , and with a fancy that everything could catch and nothing could hold , was ludicrously anomalous . 
However , he told us between-whiles , that he was doing it to such an extent , that he wondered his hair did n't turn grey . 
His regular wind-up of the business was -LRB- as I have said -RRB- , that he went to Mr. Kenge 's about Midsummer , to try how he liked it . 
My guardian told me that if Richard were to settle down at Mr. Kenge 's he would take some apartments or chambers , where we , too , could occasionally stay for a few days at a time ; `` but , little woman , '' he added , rubbing his head very significantly , `` he has n't settled down there yet ! '' 
At length , Richard having taken possession of his lodging , there was nothing to prevent our departure . 
He could have gone with us at that time of the year , very well ; but , he was in the full novelty of his new position , and was making most energetic attempts to unravel the mysteries of the fatal suit . 
Consequently , we went without him ; and my darling was delighted to praise him for being so busy . 
Mr. Guppy , and Mr. Richard Carstone , divide the dignity of the office . 
But Mr. Carstone is for the time being established in Kenge 's room , whereat Mr. Guppy chafes . 
At that time , and for a good many weeks after that time , Richard was constant in his visits . 
Besides coming every Saturday or Sunday , and remaining with us until Monday morning , he sometimes rode out on horseback unexpectedly , and passed the evening with us , and rode back again early next day . 
He was as vivacious as ever , and told us he was very industrious ; but I was not easy in my mind about him . 
It appeared to me that his industry was all misdirected . 
He had got at the core of that mystery now , he told us ; and nothing could be plainer than that the will under which he and Ada were to take , I do n't know how many thousands of pounds , must be finally established , if there were any sense or justice in the Court of Chancery -- but O what a great if that sounded in my ears -- and that this happy conclusion could not be much longer delayed . 
He proved this to himself by all the weary arguments on that side he had read , and every one of them sunk him deeper in the infatuation . 
He had even begun to haunt the Court . 
He told us how he saw Miss Flite there daily ; how they talked together , and he did her little kindnesses ; and how , while he laughed at her , he pitied her from his heart . 
But he never thought -- never , my poor , dear , sanguine Richard , capable of so much happiness then , and with such better things before him ! 
-- what a fatal link was riveting between his fresh youth and her faded age ; between his free hopes and her caged birds , and her hungry garret , and her wandering mind . 
Ada loved him too well , to mistrust him much in anything he said or did ; and my guardian , though he frequently complained of the east wind and read more than usual in the Growlery , preserved a strict silence on the subject . 
So , I thought , one day when I went to London to meet Caddy Jellyby , at her solicitation , I would ask Richard to be in waiting for me at the coach-office , that we might have a little talk together . 
I found him there when I arrived , and we walked away arm in arm . 
`` Well , Richard , '' said I , as soon as I could begin to be grave with him , `` are you beginning to feel more settled now ? '' 
returned Richard . 
returned Richard , with his gay laugh . 
`` Settled in the law , '' said I. `` O aye , '' replied Richard , `` I 'm all right enough . '' 
`` You said that before , my dear Richard . '' 
`` Why , no , I ca n't say I am settling down , '' said Richard , strongly emphasising ` down , ' as if that expressed the difficulty ; `` because one ca n't settle down while this business remains in such an unsettled state . 
said I. `` Not the least doubt of it , '' answered Richard . 
We walked a little way without speaking ; and presently Richard addressed me in his frankest and most feeling manner , thus : `` My dear Esther , I understand you , and I wish to Heaven I were a more constant sort of fellow . 
If I were a more constant sort of fellow , I should have held on , either to Badger , or to Kenge and Carboy , like grim Death ; and should have begun to be steady and systematic by this time , and should n't be in debt , and -- '' `` Are you in debt , Richard ? '' 
`` Yes , '' said Richard , `` I am a little so , my dear . 
`` You know I do n't , '' said I. `` You are kinder to me than I often am to myself , '' he returned . 
We were in a solitary place , and he put his hand before his eyes and sobbed as he said the words . 
`` O Richard ! '' 
`` I know , my dear , '' he replied , pressing my arm , `` I know all that . 
It had given me a pang to hear him sob , and see the tears start out between his fingers ; but that was infinitely less affecting to me , than the hopeful animation with which he said these words . 
`` I have looked well into the papers , Esther -- I have been deep in them for months '' -- he continued , recovering his cheerfulness in a moment , `` and you may rely upon it that we shall come out triumphant . 
Recalling how he had just now placed Messrs. Kenge and Carboy in the same category with Mr. Badger , I asked him when he intended to be articled in Lincoln 's Inn ? 
So what , '' continued Richard , confident again by this time , `` do I naturally turn my thoughts to ? '' 
`` I ca n't imagine , '' said I. `` Do n't look so serious , '' returned Richard , `` because it 's the best think I can do , my dear Esther , I am certain . 
I looked at him , and shook my head . 
`` What , '' said Richard , in a tone of perfect conviction , `` but the army ! '' 
said Richard . 
And then he showed me , proved by elaborate calculations in his pocket-book , that supposing he had contracted , say two hundred pounds of debt in six months , out of the army ; and that he contracted no debt at all within a corresponding period , in the army -- as to which he had quite made up his mind ; this step must involve a saving of four hundred pounds in a year , or two thousand pounds in five years -- which was a considerable sum . 
And then he spoke , so ingenuously and sincerely , of the sacrifice he made in withdrawing himself for a time from Ada , and of the earnestness with which he aspired -- as in thought he always did , I know full well -- to repay her love , and to ensure her happiness , and to conquer what was amiss in himself , and to acquire the very soul of decision , that he made my heart ache keenly , sorely . 
For , I thought how would this end , how could this end , when so soon and so surely all his manly qualities were touched by the fatal blight that ruined everything it rested on ! 
I spoke to Richard with all the earnestness I felt , and all the hope I could not quite feel then ; and implored him , for Ada 's sake , not to put any trust in Chancery . 
To all I said , Richard readily assented ; riding over the Court and everything else in his easy way , and drawing the brightest pictures of the character he was to settle into -- alas , when the grievous suit should loose its hold upon him ! 
After a few cheerful words , Richard left us together . 
As soon as Richard and I had held the conversation , of which I have given an account , Richard communicated the state of his mind to Mr. Jarndyce . 
He and Richard were often closeted together , late at night and early in the morning , and passed whole days in London , and had innumerable appointments with Mr. Kenge , and labored through a quantity of disagreeable business . 
And as our utmost endeavours could only elicit from Richard himself sweeping assurances that everything was going on capitally , and that it really was all right at last , our anxiety was not much relieved by him . 
We learnt , however , as the time went on , that a new application was made to the Lord Chancellor on Richard 's behalf , as an Infant and a Ward , and I do n't know what ; and that there was a quantity of talking ; and that the Lord Chancellor described him , in open court , as a vexatious and capricious infant ; and that the matter was adjourned and readjourned , and referred , and reported on , and petitioned about , until Richard began to doubt -LRB- as he told us -RRB- whether , if he entered the army at all , it would not be as a veteran of seventy or eighty years of age . 
At last an appointment was made for him to see the Lord Chancellor again in his private room , and there the Lord Chancellor very seriously reproved him for trifling with time , and not knowing his mind -- `` a pretty good joke , I think , '' said Richard , `` from that quarter ! '' 
-- and at last it was settled that his application should be granted . 
His name was entered at the Horse Guards , as an applicant for an Ensign 's commission ; the purchase-money was deposited at an Agent 's ; and Richard , in his usual characteristic way , plunged into a violent course of military study , and got up at five o'clock every morning to practise the broadsword exercise . 
Richard , who was now in a Professor 's house in London , was able to be with us less frequently than before ; my guardian still maintained the same reserve ; and so time passed until the commission was obtained , and Richard received directions with it to join a regiment in Ireland . 
He arrived post-haste with the intelligence one evening , and had a long conference with my guardian . 
Upwards of an hour elapsed before my guardian put his head into the room where Ada and I were sitting , and said , `` Come in , my dears ! '' 
We went in , and found Richard , whom we had last seen in high spirits , leaning on the chimney-piece , looking mortified and angry . 
`` You are very hard with me , sir , '' said Richard . 
`` I hope you will excuse my saying , sir , '' returned Richard in a fiery way , but yet respectfully , `` that I think I am the best judge about myself . '' 
`` It is not likely that either Richard or I can ever forget your kindness that day , cousin John . '' 
`` I can never forget it , '' said Richard . 
`` So much the easier what I have to say , and so much the easier for us to agree , '' returned my guardian , his face irradiated by the gentleness and honor of his heart . 
But what I have of certainty , sir , '' said Richard , `` is not all I have . '' 
cried my guardian , with a sudden terror in his manner , and in an altered voice , and putting up his hands as if he would have stopped his ears , `` for the love of God , do n't found a hope or expectation on the family curse ! 
Richard bit his lip and held his breath , and glanced at me , as if he felt , and knew that I felt too , how much he needed it . 
All Richard had , to start him in the race of life , is ventured . 
I recommend to him and you , for his sake and your own , that he should depart from us with the understanding that there is no sort of contract between you . 
`` Better to say at once , sir , '' returned Richard , `` that you renounce all confidence in me , and that you advise Ada to do the same . '' 
`` You think I have begun ill , sir , '' retorted Richard . 
`` You are very hard with me , sir , '' said Richard . 
returned Richard , hastily . 
Richard gave an anxious glance at Ada , but said nothing . 
`` Cousin Richard , '' said Ada , then , raising her blue eyes tenderly to his face , `` after what our cousin John has said , I think no choice is left us . 
I -- I do n't doubt , cousin Richard , '' said Ada , a little confused , `` that you are very fond of me , and I -- I do n't think you will fall in love with anybody else . 
You may trust in me , cousin Richard . 
Even cousins may be sorry to part ; and in truth I am very , very sorry , Richard , though I know it 's for your welfare . 
I shall always think of you affectionately , and often talk of you with Esther , and -- and perhaps you will sometimes think a little of me , cousin Richard . 
So now , '' said Ada , going up to him and giving him her trembling hand , `` we are only cousins again , Richard -- for the time perhaps -- and I pray for a blessing on my dear cousin , wherever he goes ! '' 
It was strange to me that Richard should not be able to forgive my guardian , for entertaining the very same opinion of him which he himself had expressed of himself in much stronger terms to me . 
I observed , with great regret , that from this hour he never was as free and open with Mr. Jarndyce as he had been before . 
There used , in that week , to come backward and forward to our lodging , to fence with Richard , a person who had formerly been a cavalry soldier ; he was a fine bluff-looking man , of a frank free bearing , with whom Richard had practised for some months . 
I heard so much about him , not only from Richard , but from my guardian too , that I was purposely in the room , with my work , one morning after breakfast when he came . 
`` Mr. Carstone will be here directly . 
He sat down , a little disconcerted by my presence , I thought ; and , without looking at me , drew his heavy sunburnt hand across and across his upper lip . 
`` And what kind of a shot , and what kind of a swordsman , do you make of Mr. Carstone ? '' 
`` If Mr. Carstone was to give his full mind to it , he would come out very good . '' 
`` But he do n't , I suppose ? '' 
`` He did at first , sir , but not afterwards . 
Not his full mind . 
Perhaps he has something else upon it -- some young lady , perhaps . '' 
`` He has not me upon his mind , I assure you , Mr. George , '' said I , laughing , `` though you seem to suspect me . '' 
Richard 's entrance stopped the conversation . 
This was the morning of the day appointed for Richard 's departure . 
We had no more purchases to make now ; I had completed all his packing early in the afternoon ; and our time was disengaged until night , when he was to go to Liverpool for Holyhead . 
Jarndyce and Jarndyce being again expected to come on that day , Richard proposed to me that we should go down to the Court and hear what passed . 
As it was his last day , and he was eager to go , and I had never been there , I gave my consent , and we walked down to Westminster where the Court was then sitting . 
We beguiled the way with arrangements concerning the letters that Richard was to write to me , and the letters that I was to write to him ; and with a great many hopeful projects . 
I sat where Richard put me , and tried to listen , and looked about me ; but there seemed to be no reality in the whole scene , except poor little Miss Flite , the madwoman , standing on a bench , and nodding at it . 
I glanced at Richard , on the termination of these hopeless proceedings , and was shocked to see the worn look of his handsome young face . 
was all he said . 
Richard had given me his arm and was taking me away , when Mr. Guppy came up . 
`` I beg your pardon , Mr. Carstone , '' said he , in a whisper , `` and Miss Summerson 's also ; but there 's a lady here , a friend of mine , who knows her , and wishes to have the pleasure of shaking hands . '' 
Richard and I were making our way through it , and I was yet in the first chill of the late unexpected recognition , when I saw , coming towards us , but not seeing us , no less a person than Mr. George . 
said Richard , as I called his attention to him . 
`` You are well met , sir , '' he returned . 
Turning as he spoke , and making an easy way for us , he stopped when we were out of the press , in a corner behind a great red curtain . 
`` There 's a little cracked old woman , '' he began , `` that -- '' I put up my finger , for Miss Flite was close by me ; having kept beside me all the time , and having called the attention of several of her legal acquaintance to me -LRB- as I had overheard to my confusion -RRB- , by whispering in their ears , `` Hush ! 
And he put one hand in his breast , and stood upright in a martial attitude , as I informed little Miss Flite , in her ear , of the purport of his kind errand . 
she exclaimed . 
she whispered to me . 
Poor Miss Flite deemed it necessary to be so courtly and polite , as a mark of her respect for the army , and to curtsey so very often , that it was no easy matter to get her out of the Court . 
When this was at last done , and , addressing Mr. George , as `` General , '' she gave him her arm , to the great entertainment of some idlers who were looking on , he was so discomposed , and begged me so respectfully `` not to desert him , '' that I could not make up my mind to do it ; especially as Miss Flite was always tractable with me , and as she too said , `` Fitz-Jarndyce , my dear , you will accompany us , of course . '' 
As Richard seemed quite willing , and even anxious , that we should see them safely to their destination , we agreed to do so . 
`` The muffled drums , '' said Mr. George , turning to Richard and me , and gravely shaking his head . 
Mr. Bucket took this opportunity of entering into a little light conversation : asking me if I were afraid of fire-arms , as most young ladies were ; asking Richard if he were a good shot ; asking Phil Squod which he considered the best of those rifles , and what it might be worth , first-hand ; telling him , in return , that it was a pity he ever gave way to his temper , for he was naturally so amiable that he might have been a young woman ; and making himself generally agreeable . 
After a time he followed us to the further end of the gallery , and Richard and I were going quietly away , when Mr. George came after us . 
He inclined his head to Richard and me , and spoke to my guardian . 
He drew the hand Miss Flite held , through her arm , and brought her something nearer to him . 
But , to me , the shadow of that pair , one living and one dead , fell heavier on Richard 's departure than the darkness of the darkest night . 
And through Richard 's farewell words I heard it echoed : `` Of all my old associations , of all my old pursuits and hopes , of all the living and the dead world , this one poor soul alone comes natural to me , and I am fit for . 
`` He is a fine young soldier now , Mr. George , by the name of Carstone . 
Richard had been gone away some time , when a visitor came to pass a few days with us . 
But , never have -- '' I mentioned , in my account of our first visit in Thavies ' Inn , that Richard described Mr. Jellyby as frequently opening his mouth after dinner without saying anything . 
I had read of Caddy in Ada 's letters , but not of Richard . 
I told him so . 
`` Why no , my dear , '' he replied . 
`` And you speak of his writing to you , '' said I , repeating his emphasis . 
`` Oh yes , it has , my dear , '' he said , laughingly . 
`` Is it possible , guardian , '' I asked , amazed , `` that Richard can be suspicious of you ? '' 
`` Ah , my love , my love , '' he said , `` it is in the subtle poison of such abuses to breed such diseases . 
His blood is infected , and objects lose their natural aspects in his sight . 
It is not his fault . '' 
I could not help expressing something of my wonder and regret that his benevolent disinterested intentions had prospered so little . 
`` We must not say so , Dame Durden , '' he cheerfully replied ; `` Ada is the happier , I hope ; and that is much . 
I resolved in my own mind in this little pause , by some means , to see Richard when I grew strong , and try to set him right . 
He was so good , his touch expressed such endearing compassion and affection , and the tone of his voice carried such comfort into my heart , that I stopped for a little while , quite unable to go on . 
`` Yes , yes , you are tired , '' said he . 
He understood me , I was sure ; but I was not afraid of that . 
If it were a poor thing , I knew he would pass it over . 
And my guardian put a letter in my hand ; without any ordinary beginning such as `` My dear Jarndyce , '' but rushing at once into the words , `` I swear if Miss Summerson do not come down and take possession of my house , which I vacate for her this day at one o'clock , p.m. , '' and then with the utmost seriousness , and in the most emphatic terms , going on to make the extraordinary declaration he had quoted . 
I was much impressed by her allusion to Richard , and by the sad meaning , so sadly illustrated in her poor pinched form , that made its way through all her incoherence . 
A quick light step approached the room in which I was , and who should stand before me but Richard ! 
he said , `` my best friend ! '' 
and he really was so warm-hearted and earnest , that in the first surprise and pleasure of his brotherly greeting , I could scarcely find breath to tell him that Ada was well . 
said Richard , leading me to a chair , and seating himself beside me . 
said Richard , just as heartily as before . 
I put my veil up altogether , and laying my hand on Richard 's sleeve , and looking in his face , told him how much I thanked him for his kind welcome , and how greatly I rejoiced to see him ; the more so , because of the determination I had made in my illness , which I now conveyed to him . 
`` My love , '' said Richard , `` there is no one with whom I have a greater wish to talk , than you , for I want you to understand me . '' 
`` And I want you , Richard , '' said I , shaking my head , `` to understand some one else . '' 
`` Since you refer so immediately to John Jarndyce , '' said Richard -- `` I suppose you mean him ? '' 
I was pained to find him taking this tone , and he observed it . 
`` Well , well , my dear , '' said Richard , `` we wo n't go into that , now . 
`` My dear Richard , '' I returned , `` you know you would be heartily welcome at his house -- your home , if you will but consider it so ; and you are as heartily welcome here . '' 
cried Richard , gaily . 
I asked him how he liked his profession ? 
said Richard . 
And yet , in the clouded , eager , seeking look that passed over him , so dreadfully like her ! 
`` I am in town on leave , just now , '' said Richard . 
I have run over to look after my -- my Chancery interests , before the long vacation , '' said Richard , forcing a careless laugh . 
Richard spoke with the same shade crossing his face as before . 
I asked Richard if anyone knew of their coming down together ? 
He answered , No , nobody . 
He had been to call upon the dear old infant -- so he called Mr. Skimpole -- and the dear old infant had told him where we were , and he had told the dear old infant he was bent on coming to see us , and the dear old infant had directly wanted to come too ; and so he had brought him . 
`` And he is worth -- not to say his sordid expenses -- but thrice his weight in gold , '' said Richard . 
I certainly did not see the proof of Mr. Skimpole 's unworldliness in his having his expenses paid by Richard ; but I made no remark about that . 
Indeed , he came in , and turned our conversation . 
He was charmed to see me ; said he had been shedding delicious tears of joy and sympathy , at intervals for six weeks , on my account ; had never been so happy as in hearing of my progress ; began to understand the mixture of good and evil in the world now ; felt that he appreciated health the more , when somebody else was ill ; did n't know but what it might be in the scheme of things that A should squint to make B happier in looking straight ; or that C should carry a wooden leg , to make D better satisfied with his flesh and blood in a silk stocking . 
`` My dear Miss Summerson , here is our friend Richard , '' said Mr. Skimpole , `` full of the brightest visions of the future , which he evokes out of the darkness of Chancery . 
This present shepherd , our pastoral Richard , brightens the dull Inns of Court by making Fortune and her train sport through them to the melodious notes of a judgment from the bench . 
''' I began seriously to think that Richard could scarcely have found a worse friend than this . 
It made me uneasy that at such a time , when he most required some right principle and purpose , he should have this captivating looseness and putting-off of everything , this airy dispensing with all principle and purpose , at his elbow . 
They both walked back with me ; and Mr. Skimpole leaving us at the gate , I walked softly in with Richard , and said , `` Ada , my love , I have brought a gentleman to visit you . '' 
She loved him dearly , and he knew it , and I knew it . 
I almost mistrusted myself , as growing quite wicked in my suspicions , but I was not so sure that Richard loved her dearly . 
He admired her very much -- any one must have done that -- and I dare say , would have renewed their youthful engagement with great pride and ardor , but that he knew how she would respect her promise to my guardian . 
Still , I had a tormenting idea that the influence upon him extended even here : that he was postponing his best truth and earnestness , in this as in all things , until Jarndyce and Jarndyce should be off his mind . 
what Richard would have been without that blight , I never shall know now ! 
He told Ada , in his most ingenuous way , that he had not come to make any secret inroad on the terms she had accepted -LRB- rather too implicitly and confidingly , he thought -RRB- from Mr. Jarndyce ; that he had come openly to see her , and to see me , and to justify himself for the present terms on which he stood with Mr. Jarndyce . 
Richard was a little late in the morning , but I had not to wait for him long , and we turned into the park . 
`` This is a lovely place , '' said Richard , looking round . 
`` I tell you what , my dear girl , '' said Richard , `` when I get affairs in general settled , I shall come down here , I think , and rest . '' 
`` Oh , as to resting now , '' said Richard , `` or as to doing anything very definite now , that 's not easy . 
`` My dear Richard , '' said I , `` this is a bad beginning of our conversation . '' 
`` And not I alone , dear Richard . 
said Richard , impatiently . 
`` O Richard , '' I remonstrated , `` is it possible that you can ever have seen him and heard him , that you can ever have lived under his roof and known him , and can yet breathe , even to me in this solitary place where there is no one to hear us , such unworthy suspicions ? '' 
He reddened deeply , as if his natural generosity felt a pang of reproach . 
He was silent for a little while , before he replied in a subdued voice : `` Esther , I am sure you know that I am not a mean fellow , and that I have some sense of suspicion and distrust being poor qualities in one of my years . '' 
retorted Richard , `` and like you , because it gives me comfort . 
`` I know perfectly , '' said I , `` I know as well , Richard -- what shall I say ? 
`` Come , sister , come , '' said Richard , a little more gaily , `` you will be fair with me at all events . 
If I have the misfortune to be under that influence , so has he . 
If it has a little twisted me , it may have a little twisted him , too . 
I do n't say that he is not an honorable man , out of all this complication and uncertainty ; I am sure he is . 
You have heard him say so fifty times . 
Then why should he escape ? '' 
`` Because , '' said I , `` his is an uncommon character , and he has resolutely kept himself outside the circle , Richard . '' 
replied Richard , in his vivacious way . 
I was so touched with pity for Richard , that I could not reproach him any more , even by a look . 
I remembered my guardian 's gentleness towards his errors , and with what perfect freedom from resentment he had spoken of them . 
`` Esther , '' Richard resumed , `` you are not to suppose that I have come here to make under-handed charges against John Jarndyce . 
Poor dear Richard ! 
He had indeed been thinking about it a good deal . 
His face , his voice , his manner all showed that , too plainly . 
`` I have not to learn from you , my dear Richard , '' said I , `` of your letter . 
replied Richard , softening . 
`` I am glad I said he was an honorable man , out of all this wretched affair . 
`` Perhaps so , '' said I. `` But do you think that , among those many papers , there is much truth and justice , Richard ? '' 
`` There is truth justice somewhere in the case , Esther -- '' `` Or was once , long ago , '' said I. `` Is -- is -- must be somewhere , '' pursued Richard , impetuously , '' and must be brought out . 
`` All you can , Richard ! 
`` It ca n't last for ever , '' returned Richard , with a fierceness kindling in him which again presented to me that last sad reminder . 
`` O , Richard , my dear , so much the worse , so much the worse ! '' 
`` No , no , no , do n't you be afraid for me , '' he returned , affectionately . 
`` Are division and animosity your natural terms , Richard ? '' 
`` Now , my best of confidantes , '' said Richard , `` I want my cousin , Ada , to understand that I am not captious , fickle , and wilful , about John Jarndyce ; but that I have this purpose and reason at my back . 
I wish to represent myself to her through you , because she has a great esteem and respect for her cousin John ; and I know you will soften the course I take , even though you disapprove of it ; and -- and in short , '' said Richard , who had been hesitating through these words , `` I -- I do n't like to represent myself in this litigious , contentious , doubting character , to a confiding girl like Ada . '' 
I told him that he was more like himself in those latter words , than in anything he had said yet . 
`` Why , '' acknowledged Richard , `` that may be true enough , my love . 
I asked him if this were all he wished me to tell Ada ? 
`` Not quite , '' said Richard . 
`` Richard , '' said I , `` you place great confidence in me , but I fear you will not take advice from me ? '' 
As if there were any other in his life ! 
As if his whole career and character were not being dyed one color ! 
`` But I may ask you a question , Richard ? '' 
`` I think so , '' said he , laughing . 
`` Why of course I am , '' said Richard , astonished at my simplicity . 
Bless your heart , my excellent girl , '' said Richard , quite amused with me , `` I shall be all right ! 
I felt so deeply sensible of the danger in which he stood , that I tried , in Ada 's name , in my guardian 's , in my own , by every fervent means that I could think of , to warn him of it , and to show him some of his mistakes . 
He received everything I said with patience and gentleness , but it rebounded from him without taking the least effect . 
I could not wonder at this , after the reception his pre-occupied mind had given to my guardian 's letter ; but I determined to try Ada 's influence yet . 
So , when our walk brought us round to the village again , and I went home to breakfast , I prepared Ada for the account I was going to give her , and told her exactly what reason we had to dread that Richard was losing himself , and shattering his whole life to the winds . 
It made her very unhappy , of course ; though she had a far , far greater reliance on his correcting his errors than I could have -- which was so natural and loving in my dear ! 
-- and she presently wrote him this little letter : My Dearest Cousin , Esther has told me all you said to her this morning . 
Pray , pray , dear Richard , for my sake , and for your own , and in a natural repugnance for that source of trouble which its share in making us both orphans when we were very young , pray , pray , let it go for ever . 
This note brought Richard to us very soon ; but it made little change in him , if any . 
We would fairly try , he said , who was right and who was wrong -- he would show us -- we should see ! 
He was animated and glowing , as if Ada 's tenderness had gratified him ; but I could only hope , with a sigh , that the letter might have some stronger effect upon his mind on re-perusal , than it assuredly had then . 
Our out-of-door life easily threw one in my way ; and I delicately said , that there was a responsibility in encouraging Richard . 
he repeated , catching at the word with the pleasantest smile , `` I am the last man in the world for such a thing . 
`` I am afraid everybody is obliged to be , '' said I , timidly enough : he being so much older and more clever than I. `` No , really ? '' 
It was difficult , after this , to explain what I meant ; but I persisted so far as to say , that we all hoped he would check and not confirm Richard in the sanguine views he entertained just then . 
`` Most willingly , '' he retorted , `` if I could . 
`` It was very unfortunate for Richard , '' I said . 
Let us suppose him keeping company with Common Sense -- an excellent man -- a good deal wrinkled -- dreadfully practical -- change for a ten-pound note in every pocket -- ruled account-book in his hand -- say , upon the whole , resembling a tax-gatherer . 
Our dear Richard , sanguine , ardent , overleaping obstacles , bursting with poetry like a young bud , says to this highly respectable companion , ` I see a golden prospect before me ; it 's very bright , it 's very beautiful , it 's very joyous ; here I go , bounding over the landscape to come at it ! ' 
It was idle to say more ; so I proposed that we should join Ada and Richard , who were a little in advance , and I gave up Mr. Skimpole in despair . 
I was not so easy now , during any reference to the name , but that I felt it a relief when Richard , with an exclamation of surprise , hurried away to meet a stranger , whom he first descried coming slowly towards us . 
We asked if that were a friend of Richard 's ? 
We had not known , we said , that Richard was assisted by any gentleman of that name . 
His further consideration of the point was prevented by Richard 's coming back to us in an excited state , and hastily presenting Mr. Vholes -- a sallow man with pinched lips that looked as if they were cold , a red eruption here and there upon his face , tall and thin , about fifty years of age , high -- shouldered , and stooping . 
Dressed in black , black-gloved , and buttoned to the chin , there was nothing so remarkable in him as a lifeless manner , and a slow fixed way he had of looking at Richard . 
`` I arranged with Mr. Carstone that he should always know when his cause was in the Chancellor 's paper , and being informed by one of my clerks last night after post time that it stood , rather unexpectedly , in the paper for to-morrow , I put myself into the coach early this morning and came down to confer with him . '' 
said Richard , flushed , and looking triumphantly at Ada and me , `` we do n't do these things in the old slow way , now . 
said Richard , looking at his watch . 
`` Is Mr. Carstone 's presence necessary to-morrow , sir ? '' 
`` Mr. Carstone has laid down the principle of watching his own interests , '' said Mr. Vholes , `` and when a client lays down his own principle , and it is not immoral , it devolves upon me to carry it out . 
Richard came in , restless and hurried , shortly afterwards , and leaning over Mr. Vholes 's chair , whispered something in his ear . 
As Ada and I were both in low spirits concerning Richard , and very sorry so to part with him , we made it as plain as we politely could that we should leave Mr. Skimpole to the Dedlock Arms , and retire when the night-travellers were gone . 
Richard 's high spirits carrying everything before them , we all went out together to the top of the hill above the village , where he had ordered a gig to wait ; and where we found a man with a lantern standing at the head of the gaunt pale horse that had been harnessed to it . 
I never shall forget those two seated side by side in the lantern 's light ; Richard , all flush and fire and laughter , with the reins in his hand ; Mr. Vholes , quite still , black-gloved , and buttoned up , looking at him as if he were looking at his prey and charming it . 
My dear girl told me , that night , how Richard 's being thereafter prosperous or ruined , befriended or deserted , could only make this difference to her , that the more he needed love from one unchanging heart , the more love that unchanging heart would have to give him ; how he thought of her through his present errors , and she would think of him at all times : never of herself , if she could devote herself to him : never of her own delights , if she could minister to his . 
says Richard . 
says Richard , turning gloomily upon him . 
We have put our shoulders to the wheel , Mr. Carstone , and the wheel is going round . '' 
says Richard , sitting down again with an impatient laugh , and beating the Devil 's Tattoo with his boot on the patternless carpet . 
But your interests demand that I should be cool and methodical , Mr. Carstone ; and I can not be otherwise -- no , sir , not even to please you . '' 
Not to Richard , though . 
There is encouragement in the sound to him . 
`` I am perfectly aware , Mr. Vholes , '' says Richard , more familiarly and good-humouredly , `` that you are the most reliable fellow in the world ; and that to have to do with you , is to have to do with a man of business who is not to be hoodwinked . 
returns Richard , brightening . 
`` Mr. Carstone , you are represented by -- '' `` You said just now -- a rock . '' 
Richard , his face flushing suddenly , strikes the desk with his clenched hand . 
`` You can , '' returns Richard . 
says Richard , accompanying his last three words with three raps on his rock of trust . 
`` Mr. C , '' returns Vholes , immovable in attitude and never winking his hungry eyes , `` I should be wanting in my duty as your professional adviser , I should be departing from my fidelity to your interests , if I represented those interests as identical with the interests of Mr. Jarndyce . 
cries Richard . 
Vholes finally adds , by way of rider to this declaration of his principles , that as Mr. Carstone is about to rejoin his regiment , perhaps Mr. C will favor him with an order on his agent for twenty pounds on account . 
Richard , emerging from the heavy shade of Symond 's Inn into the sunshine of Chancery Lane -- for there happens to be sunshine there to-day -- walks thoughtfully on , and turns into Lincoln 's Inn , and passes under the shadow of the Lincoln 's Inn trees . 
Yet the time is so short since his depreciation began , that as he saunters away , reluctant to leave the spot for some long months together , though he hates it , Richard himself may feel his own case as if it were a startling one . 
While his heart is heavy with corroding care , suspense , distrust , and doubt , it may have room for some sorrowful wonder when he recals how different his first visit there , how different he , how different all the colors of his mind . 
Richard has told Vholes the truth . 
Is he in a hardened or a softened mood , he still lays his injuries equally at that door ; he was thwarted , in that quarter , of a set purpose , and that purpose , could only originate in the one subject that is resolving his existence into itself ; besides , it is a justification to him in his own eyes to have an embodied antagonist and oppressor . 
Is Richard a monster in all this , -- or would Chancery be found rich in such Precedents too , if they could be got for citation from the Recording Angel ? 
When we were settled at home again , Ada and I had many conversations with my guardian , of which Richard was the theme . 
My dear girl was deeply grieved that he should do their kind cousin so much wrong ; but she was so faithful to Richard , that she could not bear to blame him , even for that . 
My guardian was assured of it , and never coupled his name with a word of reproof . 
We knew afterwards what we suspected then ; that he did not trust to time until he had often tried to open Richard 's eyes . 
That he had written to him , gone to him , talked with him , tried every gentle and persuasive art his kindness could devise . 
Our poor devoted Richard was deaf and blind to all . 
If he were wrong , he would make amends when the Chancery suit was over . 
If he were groping in the dark , he could not do better than do his utmost to clear away those clouds in which so much was confused and obscured . 
Then let him work the suit out , and come through it to his right mind . 
This was his unvarying reply . 
I took one of these opportunities of mentioning my doubts of Mr. Skimpole as a good adviser for Richard . 
`` Not Richard ? '' 
`` No , '' he replied . 
`` Such an unworldly , uncalculating , gossamer creature , is a relief to him , and an amusement . 
inquired my guardian , rubbing his head , a little at a loss . 
`` Why , '' he slowly replied , roughening his head more and more , `` he is all sentiment , and -- and susceptibility , and -- and sensibility -- and -- and imagination . 
Ada , glancing at me , said she thought it was a pity he should be an expense to Richard . 
And I said I thought it was to be regretted that he had ever introduced Richard to Mr. Vholes , for a present of five pounds . 
Besides , I give you my word , Miss Clare and my dear Miss Summerson , I thought Mr. Carstone was immensely rich . 
I thought he had only to make over something , or to sign a bond , or a draft , or a cheque , or a bill , or to put something on a file somewhere , to bring down a shower of money . '' 
`` He is poor . '' 
`` And not being the richer for trusting in a rotten reed , '' said my guardian , laying his hand emphatically on the sleeve of Mr. Skimpole 's dressing-gown , `` be you very careful not to encourage him in that reliance , Harold . '' 
I thought about her love for Richard ; though , indeed , the flowers had nothing to do with that . 
There being not the least constraint in his manner , there was none -LRB- or I think then was none -RRB- in mine . 
I was with him several times in the course of the morning , in and out , when there was no one there ; and I thought it not unlikely that he might speak to me about the letter ; but he did not say a word . 
Ada had been telling me only that morning , of her hopes that Richard might exhaust his ardor in the Chancery suit by being so very earnest in it ; and therefore , not to damp my dear girl 's spirits , I said nothing about Mr. Vholes 's shadow . 
Him as come down in the country with Mr. Richard . '' 
Mr. Vholes rose , gloved and buttoned up as usual , and seated himself again , just as he had seated himself beside Richard in the gig . 
Not having Richard to look at , he looked straight before him . 
`` Mr. Vholes , '' said my guardian , eyeing his black figure , as if he were a bird of ill omen , `` has brought an ugly report of our most unfortunate Rick . '' 
Laying a marked emphasis on most unfortunate , as if the words were rather descriptive of his connexion with Mr. Vholes . 
It appeared to us that Mr. Vholes said neither more nor less than the truth , in intimating that he sought to divide the responsibility , such as it was , of knowing Richard 's situation . 
I could only suggest that I should go down to Deal , where Richard was then stationed , and see him , and try if it were possible to avert the worst . 
`` Well , sir , '' said Mr. Jarndyce , `` Miss Summerson will communicate with Mr. Carstone , and we can only hope that his position may be yet retrievable . 
But she was too true to Richard to say anything but words of pity and words of excuse ; and in a more loving spirit still -- my dear , devoted girl ! 
-- she wrote him a long letter , of which I took charge . 
In what state I should find Richard , what I should say to him , and what he would say to me , occupied my mind by turns with these two states of feeling ; and the wheels seemed to play one tune -LRB- to which the burden of my guardian 's letter set itself -RRB- over and over again all night . 
I had thought of sending Richard a note , saying I was there , but it seemed so much better to go to him without preparation . 
As he lived in barracks I was a little doubtful whether this was feasible , but we went out to reconnoitre . 
Peeping in at the gate of the barrack yard , we found everything very quiet at that time in the morning ; and I asked a serjeant standing on the guardhouse-steps , where he lived . 
He sent a man before to show me , who went up some bare stairs , and knocked with his knuckles at a door , and left us . 
cried Richard , from within . 
So I left Charley in the little passage , and going on to the half-open door , said , `` Can I come in , Richard . 
Dear Richard ! 
he was ever the same to me . 
Lovelier than ever , Richard ! '' 
`` Richard , '' I urged , `` it is not so hopeless as that ? '' 
`` Yes , Richard . '' 
`` I know your welfare to be the dearest wish of her heart , '' said I. `` And O , my dear Richard , Ada 's is a noble heart ! '' 
`` Richard ! '' 
When I saw his worn young face looking at me , as if he were sorry , I put my hand on his shoulder , and said , `` If you please , my dear Richard , do not speak in such a tone to me . 
cried Richard , exultingly . 
I will not repeat what I said to Richard . 
He heard it patiently and feelingly ; but I saw that on the two subjects he had reserved , it was at present hopeless to make any representation to him . 
I saw too , and had experienced in this very interview , the sense of my guardian 's remark that it was even more mischievous to use persuasion with him than to leave him as he was . 
Therefore I was driven at last to asking Richard if he would mind convincing me that it really was all over there , as he had said , and that it was not his mere impression . 
He showed me without hesitation a correspondence making it quite plain that his retirement was arranged . 
I found , from what he told he , that Mr. Vholes had copies of these papers , and had been in consultation with him throughout . 
Beyond ascertaining this , and having been the bearer of Ada 's letter , and being -LRB- as I was going to be -RRB- Richard 's companion back to London , I had done no good by coming down . 
Admitting this to myself with a reluctant heart , I said I would return to the hotel and wait until he joined me there ; so he threw a cloak over his shoulders and saw me to the gate , and Charley and I went back along the beach . 
I untied my bonnet and put my veil half up -- I think I mean half down , but it matters very little -- and wrote on one of my cards that I happened to be there with Mr. Richard Carstone ; and I sent it in to Mr. Woodcourt . 
While we were talking , and when I was glad to believe that I had alleviated -LRB- if I may use such a term -RRB- the shock he had had in seeing me , Richard came in . 
He had heard down-stairs who was with me , and they met with cordial pleasure . 
I saw that after their first greetings were over , and when they spoke of Richard 's career , Mr. Woodcourt had a perception that all was not going well with him . 
Yet Richard was in one of his sanguine states , and in good spirits ; and was thoroughly pleased to sec Mr. Woodcourt again , whom he had always liked . 
Richard proposed that we all should go to London together ; but Mr. Woodcourt having to remain by his ship a little longer , could not join us . 
Yet his mind was not relieved of Richard . 
When the coach was almost ready , and Richard ran down to look after his luggage , he spoke to me about him . 
I was not sure that I had a right to lay his whole story open ; but I referred in a few words to his estrangement from Mr. Jarndyce , and to his being entangled in the ill-fated Chancery suit . 
`` There is nothing Richard wants so much , as a friend . 
He always liked you . 
Pray see him when you get there . 
Pray help him sometimes with your companionship , if you can . 
Richard came back as we finished exchanging these hurried words , and gave me his arm to take me to the coach . 
`` Woodcourt , '' he said , unconscious with what application , `` pray let us meet in London ! '' 
`` Why , I must get a lodging of some sort , '' said Richard , pondering . 
When I was seated in the coach , and Richard was yet standing in the street , Mr. Woodcourt laid his friendly hand on Richard 's shoulder , and looked at me . 
`` Richard told me , '' he falters , '' -- I mean , I have heard of this -- do n't mind me for a moment , I will speak presently . '' 
Mr. Woodcourt dined with us , to celebrate my darling 's birthday ; and we were as pleasant as we could be with the great blank among us that Richard 's absence naturally made on such an occasion . 
My guardian 's old hopes of her and Richard arose sorrowfully in my mind , and I said to myself , `` she has been anxious about him , '' and I wondered how that love would end . 
For he never once , from the moment when I entreated him to be a friend to Richard , neglected or forgot his promise . 
He had told me that he accepted the charge as a sacred trust , and he was ever true to it in that spirit . 
He found Mr. Vholes in his office , and informed Mr. Vholes of his agreement with Richard , that the should call there to learn his address . 
`` And Mr. Carstone 's address , Mr. Vholes ? '' 
Upon this , Mr. Woodcourt wished Mr. Vholes good day , and went in search of Richard , the change in whose appearance he began to understand now but too well . 
He found him in a dull room , fadedly furnished ; much as I had found him in his barrack-room but a little while before , except that he was not writing , but was sitting with a book before him , from which his eyes and thoughts were far astray . 
cried Richard , starting up with extended hands , `` you come upon my vision like a ghost . '' 
`` Badly enough , and slowly enough , '' said Richard ; `` speaking at least for my part of it . '' 
`` Nor I , '' said Richard , moodily . 
He brightened again in a moment , and said , with his natural openness : `` Woodcourt , I should be sorry to be misunderstood by you , even if I gained by it in your estimation . 
You , '' he returned Richard , `` you can pursue your art for its own sake ; and can put your hand upon the plough , and never turn ; and can strike a purpose out of anything . 
`` You come as a godsend , '' said Richard , `` for I have seen nobody here yet but Vholes . 
`` Now pray , '' returned Richard , `` do n't think me a heap of selfishness . 
He was so very solicitous on this head , that Mr. Woodcourt gave him the strongest assurances that he did him no injustice . 
`` You see , '' said Richard , with something pathetic in his manner of lingering on the point , though it was off-hand and unstudied , `` to an upright fellow like you , bringing a friendly face like yours here , I can not bear the thought of appearing selfish and mean . 
Afterwards , when Mr. Woodcourt came to reflect on what had passed , he was so very much impressed by the strength of Richard 's anxiety on this point , that in telling me generally of his first visit to Symond 's Inn , he particularly dwelt upon it . 
It revived a fear I had had before , that my dear girl 's little property would be absorbed by Mr. Vholes , and that Richard 's justification to himself would be sincerely this . 
I proposed to Ada , that morning , that we should go and see Richard . 
`` My dear , '' said I , `` you have not had any difference with Richard since I have been so much away ? '' 
`` Not heard of him , perhaps ? '' 
said I. `` Yes , I have heard of him , '' said Ada . 
Should I go to Richard 's by myself , I said ? 
So , up we went to the second story , where we came to Richard 's name in great white letters on a hearse-like panel . 
Thus we came to Richard , poring over a table covered with dusty bundles of papers which seemed to me like dusty mirrors reflecting his own mind . 
`` He is not so sanguine , Ada , '' continued Richard , casting his dejected look over the bundles of papers , `` as Vholes and I are usually ; but he is only an outsider , and is not in the mysteries . 
As his look wandered over the papers again , and he passed his two hands over his head , I noticed how sunken and how large his eyes appeared , how dry his lips were , and how his finger-nails were all bitten away . 
`` Is this a healthy place to live in , Richard , do you think ? '' 
said I. `` Why , my dear Minerva , '' answered Richard , with his old gay laugh , `` it is neither a rural nor a cheerful place ; and when the sun shines here , you may lay a pretty heavy wager that it is shining brightly in an open spot . 
said Richard , forcing a laugh as he finished the sentence . 
These latter words were addressed to Ada , who was sitting nearest to him . 
Her face being turned away from me and towards him , I could not see it . 
`` We are doing very well , '' pursued Richard . 
His hopefulness had long been more painful to me than his despondency ; it was so unlike hopefulness , had something so fierce in its determination to be it , was so hungry and eager , and yet so conscious of being forced and unsustainable , that it had long touched me to the heart . 
But the commentary upon it now indelibly written in his handsome face , made it far more distressing than it used to be . 
I say indelibly ; for I felt persuaded that if the fatal cause could have been for ever terminated , according to his brightest visions , in that same hour , the traces of the premature anxiety , self-reproach , and disappointment it had occasioned him , would have remained upon his features to the hour of his death . 
`` The sight of our dear little woman , '' said Richard : Ada still remaining silent and quiet : `` is so natural to me , and her compassionate face is so like the face of old days -- '' Ah ! 
`` -- So exactly like the face of old days , '' said Richard in his cordial voice , and taking my hand with the brotherly regard which nothing ever changed , `` that I ca n't make pretences with her . 
I get , '' said Richard , relinquishing my hand gently , and walking across the room , `` so tired ! '' 
He took a few turns up and down , and sunk upon the sofa . 
`` I get , '' he repeated gloomily , `` so tired . 
He was leaning on his arm , saying these words in a meditative voice , and looking at the ground , when my darling rose , put off her bonnet , kneeled down beside him with her golden hair falling like sunlight on his head , clasped her two arms round his neck , and turned her face to me . 
With those words my darling drew his head down on her breast , and held it there . 
`` Speak to Esther , my dearest , '' said Richard , breaking the silence presently . 
I was very fond of Richard , but the impulse that I had upon me was to pity her so much . 
I dried my sobbing darling 's eyes , and sat beside her on the sofa , and Richard sat on my other side ; and while I was reminded of that so different night when they had first taken me into their confidence and had gone on in their own wild happy way , they told me between them how it was . 
`` All I had , was Richard 's , '' Ada said ; `` and Richard would not take it , Esther , and what could I do but be his wife when I loved him dearly ! '' 
`` And you were so fully and so kindly occupied , excellent Dame Durden , '' said Richard , `` that how could we speak to you at such a time ! 
Then I remembered last night , and told Richard that ever since her marriage she had worn it at night when there was no one to see . 
Nor was Richard much better ; and as for me I should have been the worst of the three , if I had not severely said to myself , `` Now , Esther , if you do , I 'll never speak to you again ! '' 
Here , Richard , take my child , for goodness ' sake . '' 
So I shall not say good bye , Richard . 
I had given my darling to him now , and I meant to go ; but I lingered for one more look of the precious face , which it seemed to rive my heart to turn from . 
`` I have just left Richard , '' said Mr. Woodcourt . 
`` I have been sitting with him since ten o'clock last night . '' 
`` O dear me , he is ill ! '' 
He was depressed and faint -- you know he gets so worried and so worn sometimes -- and Ada sent to me of course ; and when I came home I found her note , and came straight here . 
Richard revived so much after a little while , and Ada was so happy , and so convinced of its being my doing , though God knows I had little enough to do with it , that I remained with him until he had been fast asleep some hours . 
`` Does he still say the same of Richard ? '' 
He knows of no direct bodily illness that he has ; on the contrary , he believes that he has none . 
Yet he is not easy about him ; who can be ? '' 
We knew full well that her fervent heart was as full of affection and gratitude towards her cousin John as it had ever been , and we acquitted Richard of laying any injunctions upon her to stay away ; but we knew on the other hand that she felt it a part of her duty to him , to be sparing of her visits at our house . 
My guardian 's delicacy had soon perceived this , and had tried to convey to her that he thought she was right . 
`` Dear , unfortunate , mistaken Richard , '' said I. `` When will he awake from his delusion ! '' 
`` He is not in the way to do so now , my dear , '' replied my guardian . 
`` The more he suffers , the more averse he will be to me : having made me the principal representative of the great occasion of his suffering . '' 
His gentleness and consideration for Richard , whenever we spoke of him , touched me so , that I was always silent on this subject very soon . 
He checked himself in glancing towards the window to look where the wind was , and leaned on the back of my chair instead . 
But I had already discussed it with him , I confessed ; and so , I thought , had Mr. Woodcourt . 
In answer to this question , which was oddly abrupt , I said I liked her very much , and thought she was more agreeable than she used to be . 
On these occasions I frequently found Richard absent . 
At other times he would be writing , or reading papers in the Cause , at that table of his , so covered with papers , which was never disturbed . 
Sometimes I would come upon him , lingering at the door of Mr. Vholes 's office . 
Paler than she had been at home , and a little quieter than I had thought natural when she was yet so cheerful and hopeful , her face was so unshadowed , that I half believed she was blinded by her love for Richard to his ruinous career . 
`` Then Richard is not come in yet ? '' 
`` No , he is not come in , '' returned Miss Flite . 
`` He has had a long day in court . 
I left him there , with Vholes . 
`` I am afraid you see Richard oftener than ever now ? '' 
This was not a cheering preparation for my visit , and I could have dispensed with the company of Mr. Vholes , when Richard -LRB- who arrived within a minute or two after me -RRB- brought him to share our dinner . 
Although it was a very plain one , Ada and Richard were for some minutes both out of the room together , helping to get ready what we were to eat and drink . 
So slow , so eager , so bloodless and gaunt , I felt as if Richard were wasting away beneath the eyes of this adviser , and there were something of the Vampire in him . 
When Richard had not yielded himself to the unhappy influence which now darkened his life . 
`` It would become a very different marriage , a much happier and better marriage , another marriage altogether , Mr. Vholes , '' said I , `` if Richard were persuaded to turn his back on the fatal pursuit in which you are engaged with him . '' 
He broke off thus , in answer to Richard , who addressed him as he came into the room . 
We sat down to dinner , and I had an opportunity of observing Richard , anxiously . 
I found Richard thin and languid , slovenly in his dress , abstracted in his manner , forcing his spirits now and then , and at other intervals relapsing into a dull thoughtfulness . 
About his large bright eyes that used to be so merry , there was a wanness and a restlessness that changed them altogether . 
I can not use the expression that he looked old . 
There is a ruin of youth which is not like age ; and into such a ruin , Richard 's youth and youthful beauty had all fallen away . 
He ate little , and seemed indifferent what it was ; shewed himself to be much more impatient than he used to be ; and was quick , even with Ada . 
I thought , at first , that his old light-hearted manner was all gone ; but it shone out of him sometimes , as I had occasionally known little momentary glimpses of my own old face to look out upon me from the glass . 
His laugh had not quite left him either ; but it was like the echo of a joyful sound , and that is always sorrowful . 
Yet he was as glad as ever , in his old affectionate way , to have me there ; and we talked of the old times pleasantly . 
cried Richard . 
`` Yes , Mr. C , '' he returned , `` the interests of clients are never to be neglected , sir . 
My denying myself the pleasure of the present agreeable conversation , may not be wholly irrespective of your own interests , Mr. C. '' Richard expressed himself quite sure of that , and lighted Mr. Vholes out . 
My dear girl had a cottage piano there , and quietly sat down to sing some of Richard 's favorites ; the lamp being first removed into the next room , as he complained of its hurting his eyes . 
I think Richard did too ; I think he darkened the room for that reason . 
She had been singing some time , rising between-whiles to bend over him and speak to him ; when Mr. Woodcourt came in . 
Then he sat down by Richard ; and half playfully , half earnestly , quite naturally and easily , found out how he felt , and where he had been all day . 
Presently he proposed to accompany him in a short walk on one of the bridges , as it was a moonlight airy night ; and Richard readily consenting , they went out together . 
`` Esther , my dearest , '' she said , breaking silence , `` Richard is never so well , and I am never so easy about him , as when he is with Allan Woodcourt . 
John 's house , and had known us all there ; and because he had always liked Richard , and Richard had always liked him , and -- and so forth . 
`` All true , '' said Ada ; `` but that he is such a devoted friend to us , we owe to you . '' 
`` When I married Richard , I was not insensible to what was before him . 
I had been perfectly happy for a long time with you , and I had never known any trouble or anxiety , so loved and cared for ; but I understood the danger he was in , dear Esther . '' 
`` When we were married , I had some little hope that I might be able to convince him of his mistake ; that he might come to regard it in a new way as my husband , and not pursue it all the more desperately for my sake -- as he does . 
But if I had not had that hope , I would have married him just the same , Esther . 
No one can understand him better than I do . 
The greatest wisdom that ever lived in the world could scarcely know Richard better than my love does . '' 
`` I see him at his worst , every day . 
I watch him in his sleep . 
I know every change of his face . 
But when I married Richard I was quite determined , Esther , if Heaven would help me , never to show him that I grieved for what he did , and so to make him more unhappy . 
When Richard turns his eyes upon me then , there may be something lying on my breast more eloquent than I have been , with greater power than mine to show him his true course , and win him back . '' 
I look forward a long while , through years and years , and think that then , when I am growing old , or when I am dead perhaps , a beautiful woman , his daughter , happily married , may be proud of him and a blessing to him . 
Though sometimes even they depart from me , before a dread that arises when I look at Richard . '' 
Sobbing and weeping , she replied : `` That he may not live to see his child . '' 
Now , besides my very much mistrusting the probability of his being there without making Richard poorer , I felt as if there were something in his careless gaiety , too inconsistent with what I knew of the depths of Ada 's life . 
I think you ought most seriously to know that Richard is poorer than he was . '' 
`` This at present naturally causes Ada much secret anxiety ; and as I think she is less anxious when no claims are made upon her by visitors , and as Richard has one uneasiness always heavy on his mind , it has occurred to me to take the liberty of saying that -- if you would -- not -- '' I was coming to the point with great difficulty , when he took me by both hands , and , with a radiant face and in the liveliest way , anticipated it . 
Now I have had very little pleasure at our dear Richard 's , lately , and your practical sagacity demonstrates why . 
A coolness arose between him and my guardian , based chiefly on the foregoing grounds , and on his having heartlessly disregarded my guardian 's entreaties -LRB- as we afterwards learned from Ada -RRB- in reference to Richard . 
His being heavily in my guardian 's debt , had nothing to do with their separation . 
He died some five years afterwards , and left a diary behind him , with letters and other materials towards his Life ; which was published , and which showed him to have been the victim of a combination on the part of mankind against an amiable child . 
Richard , more worn and haggard , haunted the Court day after day ; listlessly sat there the whole day long , when he knew there was no remote chance of the suit being mentioned ; and became one of the stock : sights of the place . 
I wonder whether any of the gentlemen remembered him as he was when he first went there . 
So completely was he absorbed in his fixed idea , that he used to avow in his cheerful moments , that he should never have breathed the fresh air now `` but for Woodcourt . '' 
We spoke of Richard and Ada the whole way . 
I did not thank him , in words , for what he had done -- my appreciation of it had risen above all words then -- but I hoped he might not be without some understanding of what I felt so strongly . 
`` If , in the unchanged intercourse we shall have together -- in tending Richard and Ada ; and I hope in many happier scenes of life -- you ever find anything in me which you can honestly think is better than it used to be , believe that it will have sprung up from to-night , and that I shall owe it to you . 
Richard ! '' 
I exclaimed involuntarily , `` what will he do when you are gone ! '' 
`` I am not required to go yet ; I would not desert him , dear Miss Summerson , even if I were . '' 
`` You would further have seen , that the interests of Mr. Richard Carstone , and of Miss Ada Clare , now Mrs. Richard Carstone , are very materially advanced by it . '' 
In Richard , the discovery gave occasion for a burst of business and agitation that buoyed him up for a little time ; but he had lost the elasticity even of hope now , and seemed to me to retain only its feverish anxieties . 
From something my guardian said one day , when we were talking about this , I understood that my marriage would not take place until after the Term-time we had been told to look forward to ; and I thought the more , for that , how rejoiced I should be if I could be married when Richard and Ada were a little more prosperous . 
We were to be married before the month was out ; but when we were to come and take possession of our own house , was to depend on Richard and Ada . 
As soon as we arrived in town , Allan went straight to see Richard , and to carry our joyful news to him and my darling . 
Richard was extremely agitated , and was so weak and low , though his illness was still of the mind , that my dear girl indeed had sore occasion to be supported . 
As we were going along , planning what we should do for Richard and Ada , I heard somebody calling `` Esther ! 
Could it be possible that the Will had set things right at last , and that Richard and Ada were going to be rich ? 
`` My dearest life , '' whispered Allan , '' this will break Richard 's heart ! '' 
There was such a shock of apprehension in his face , and he knew Richard so perfectly , and I too had seen so much of his gradual decay , that what my dear girl had said to me in the fulness of her foreboding love , sounded like a knell in my ears . 
I would not let him take me to a coach , but entreated him to go to Richard without a moment 's delay , and leave me to do as he wished . 
Hurrying home , I found my guardian , and told him gradually with what news I had returned . 
`` Little woman , '' said he , quite unmoved for himself , `` to have done with the suit on any terms , is a greater blessing than I had looked for . 
When my darling heard my footsteps , she came out into the small passage and threw her arms round my neck ; but she composed herself directly , and said that Richard had asked for me several times . 
`` Yes , surely , dearest Richard ! '' 
Richard asked me . 
The door was behind him , but he had observed in my face that some one was there . 
I looked to Allan for advice , and as he nodded `` Yes , '' bent over Richard and told him . 
My guardian saw what passed , came softly by me in a moment , and laid his hand on Richard 's . 
`` O sir , '' said Richard , '' you are a good man , you are a good man ! '' 
My guardian , the picture of a good man , sat down in my place , keeping his hand on Richard 's . 
`` My dear Rick , '' said he , `` the clouds have cleared away , and it is bright now . 
`` I will not begin it in the old way now , '' said Richard with a sad smile . 
`` Well , well , '' said my guardian , comforting him ; `` well , well , well , dear boy ! '' 
`` I was thinking , sir , '' resumed Richard , `` that there is nothing on earth I should so much like to see as their house -- Dame Durden 's and Woodcourt 's house . 
Richard smiled ; and lifted up his arm to touch him , as he stood behind the head of his couch . 
`` I say nothing of Ada , '' said Richard , `` But I think of her , and have thought of her very much . 
He clasped her in his arms , and none of us spoke . 
He gradually released her ; and she looked upon us , and looked up to Heaven , and moved her lips . 
`` When I get down to Bleak House , '' said Richard , `` I shall have much to tell you , sir , and you will have much to show me . 
`` Thank you ; like you , like you , '' said Richard . 
he repeated to Ada , as he gently passed his hand over her golden hair , and put a lock of it to his lips . 
-LRB- I think he vowed within himself to cherish her if she were left alone . -RRB- 
said Richard , clasping both my guardian 's hands eagerly . 
said Richard , with a light in his eyes . 
My husband drew a little nearer towards Ada , and I saw him solemnly lift up his hand to warn my guardian . 
said Richard . 
He sought to raise himself a little . 
I never look at him , but I hear our poor dear Richard calling him a good man . 
To Ada and her pretty boy , he is the fondest father ; to me , he is what he has ever been , and what name can I give to that ! 
He is my husband 's best and dearest friend , he is our children 's darling , he is the object of our deepest love and veneration . 
Yet while I feel towards him as if he were a superior being , I am so familiar with him , and so easy with him , that I almost wonder at myself . 
I have never lost my old names , nor has he lost his ; nor do I ever , when he is with us , sit in any other place than in my old chair at his side . 
Sometimes , when I raise my eyes and see her , in the black dress that she still wears , teaching my Richard , I feel -- it is difficult to express -- as if it were so good to know that she remembers her dear Esther in her prayers . 
I call him my Richard ! 
But he says that he has two mamas , and I am one . 
A night or two ago , after bustling about preparing for darling and my guardian and little Richard , who are coming to-morrow , I was sitting out in the porch of all places , that dearly memorable porch , when Allan came home . 
