`` David ! '' 
`` I rejoice at it , my dear David ! 
`` Since the prince and the youthful shepherd , David , are gone away together , you will be left alone for a time . 
My lord Arbaces , this is my friend David of Bethlehem , of the School of the Prophets ! '' 
We discussed the conduct of Jael in slaying Sisera : the prince giving it as his opinion that `` she was justifiable as he was an enemy of God ; as in permitting him to go in safety she would have been condemned as an enemy to her people : she had no alternative but to do as she did . '' 
He had better have been perjured , than for his oath 's sake commit a crime which has no parallel . 
Having taken a kind leave , at the foot of the stairs , of my intelligent friend Nathan , who promises to become a leading man among his countrymen , young David came forward to me and grasping my hand said , in a manly way and with graceful dignity : `` I am sorry , my lord prince , you have come to find our country troubled by the hordes of the Philistines , whose presence will perhaps prevent you from going , at present , farther south than Solima or Hebron . 
It was written by the youthful David my friend whom we saw at Ramah . 
Were we not discoursing of David ? '' 
But I will now resume my narrative of my young friend David , the son of Jesse . '' 
`` I will inform you , '' said Jonathan , `` how and where I first met with David . 
I am called David , the son of Jesse , and I am a shepherd ! ' 
`` For several months the youthful David and I met only to increase our mutual regard . 
David , as a shepherd , is happy ; and a life of lowly duties is the safest if not the happiest . 
`` I hear thou hast a son , called David , a shepherd , who is skilled on the harp . 
If rumor hath told the truth of him , send him hither to me , I have need of him . 
It shall fare well with him , and he shall be sent back to thee in safety . '' 
`` The message was at once placed in my hands by the chief physician , '' continued the prince , `` and I gladly hastened to the valley where David kept his flock . 
As I came to them I asked if David were not in the valley with the sheep ? 
``` The king has sent for David , ' answered Jesse , with a look of paternal-pride . 
``` The boy will next fancy his cross-headed crook a sceptre , and weave him a crown out of the hedge thorn , ' responded Eliab bitterly ; ` and he will ere long strut about us as Joseph of old , and bid us make obeisance to him , and say , `` Hail , David , King of Israel ! '' ' 
Go and find my son David , ' he continued , addressing me , ` and take him with thee to the king . ' 
`` I departed from them , and at length beheld David afar off with his flock , leading them to a well to water them . 
When he saw me he stood still , and awaited my coming . '' 
`` And Jesse answered with an air of disappointment , ` There remaineth David the youngest , a mere lad , who is with the sheep ! ' 
No sooner had this sacred rite been performed , than the Spirit of inspiration from God departed from Saul as he sat in his own house , and at the same instant descended upon David . 
Under its influence , the consecrated youth seized his harp and struck it to a sublime symphony which seemed to be caught from the harps of angels . 
All were amazed at the rapturous adoration of his countenance , the holy light in his eyes , the celestial brightness of his form ! 
This lasted only for a moment ; and he then retired modestly as if seeking to withdraw himself from notice . 
Samuel went forth after him and said to him privately : ``` David , son of Jesse , thou art now the chosen and anointed of the Lord to rule his people Israel . 
`` When the prophet had thus solemnly addressed him , he left him and returned to Ramah , and David , in a state between joy and fear , hardly realizing what had passed , returned to his flock in the desert and gave himself up to meditation and prayer , humbly and devoutly looking to God for guidance and strength to do all that should be required of him . '' 
Jesse , the father , has regarded his son from that time with reverent curiosity and expectation ; but the brothers , whom Samuel one by one passed by , to send for David from the sheep-fold , have envied him and entreated him unfilially ; so that it is alone my friendship which sustains his noble heart in its solitude . '' 
When at length I learned that the prophet of God had been to Bethlehem and consecrated my beloved David , my bosom friend , to be Prince of Israel in my stead , I can truly say I rejoiced at the tidings , O Arbaces , for I had long ceased to expect to receive the throne . 
The prince , taking no notice of my admiring language , continued his narration : -- `` My dear David , instead of returning my caresses , burst into a profusion of tears , and walked from me profoundly agitated , saying , ` If thou knewest all , my lord , thou wouldst despise thy David instead of embracing him thus ! ' 
``` Cease to afflict thyself , dear David , ' I replied , moved by his emotion even to tears . 
` The celestial fragrance of the holy oil is even yet about thy princely head , my David ! ' 
he exclaimed . 
``` I have nothing to forgive , my David ! 
I was about describing to thee , before this deviation , to make the past plain to thee , O Arbaces , not yet wholly familiar with our national history , my visit to David when , two years after this consecration , I bore to him my poor father 's message to come to him with his harp . 
As I said , I found him leading his flock to the well , at which , Abraham , Canaan the son of Ham , and even Noah , the father of our race , had drank . 
When I returned to my father with David , I entered his chamber , and found him seated at his table in his right mind , and about to refresh himself with food . 
I did not hesitate , therefore , to appear before him . 
Upon seeing me he spoke very gently , and called me ` his son , ' and desired me to sit at the board with him , saying , ` Would I had a bit of good venison and new wine to set before thee , my son ! ' 
`` At this moment , so singularly favorable , I called to David , and presented him to the king , saying , ` This is the son of Jesse , for whom my father sent ! 
`` Hereupon David , who was not free from embarrassment , bowed himself before the king with graceful dignity , and presented the presents , saying , ` My father prays for the king 's health , and humbly asks him to accept these little gifts by the hand of his son ! ' 
``` David , my lord , ' he answered . 
`` My father then commanded a harp to be brought , and David standing by it , played upon it before him with such masterly power , and accompanied it with his voice so tenderly , that when he had ended , the king expressed his pleasure in the warmest words ; and taking a bracelet from his arm , he placed it upon that of the harpist , saying in a most kindly tone , ``` Thou shalt stay with me ! 
David seized his harp and commenced playing a battle-piece , which drew quickly the warlike monarch 's attention . 
He then changed it to a plaintive air , and followed this by one full of animation and sprightliness . 
From that time David was necessary to his health and happiness ; and his playing on the harp never failed to dissipate the clouds of melancholy which enveloped his soul . 
At length the king , my father , seemed wholly restored to his right mind , and David besought him for permission to return to his father 's house , and to the care of his flocks ; for , as he said to me , he felt ill at ease in the presence of the man whom God had mysteriously ordained that he should succeed in the kingdom ! 
I could not but thank Prince Jonathan in the sincerest manner for the pleasure he had conferred upon me by his conversation ; and I assured him I should henceforth take the deepest interest in the life and fortunes of the youthful David . 
`` I regret , '' he said , `` that the cure of the king 's malady , though for a long time relieved by David 's art , was not permanent . 
It has within a few days come upon him again , since this new war has been declared by the Philistines against him . 
You had , however , an exhibition , when you were presented to him , of the painful form his melancholy takes when the evil spirit is upon him . 
You saw me make a sign to the choristers , hoping their music would soothe him ; but they being unskillful , the king , whose storm-tossed soul had been charmed into perfect peace by the superb performances of David , evinced his contempt for them as you beheld . 
If he continues in this gloom of soul , I shall send a messenger for my friend to hasten hither from Ramah and once more try the power of his skill . '' 
This was said by one of them with a tone and allusion , your majesty , which I plainly interpreted as a sneer aimed against their honored younger brother ; for these were the three elder brothers of David , still , it seemed , burning with jealousy , and envy against him . 
Yet how little did they suspect that the anointing they had witnessed was to give him authority as King in Saul 's seat ! 
Such splendid armaments as you speak of , are fitter for the true prince of Israel , my friend David , than for an humble citizen like me . 
`` Why not send for David to try again the power of his harp ? '' 
But he is in the School of the Prophets and under Samuel . 
You will remember that we left the youthful David at the School of the Prophets in Ramah . 
But when he heard that his three older brothers had gone to the wars , and that a fourth was ill , having been severely torn by a wolf , he requested of the Seer permission to go and see how it fared with the old man his father , and if his services were needed by him . 
David looked round when he heard this strange and terrific voice , and beheld the Philistine champion , Goliath of Gath , come forth upon the plain out of his army and stand as heretofore and defy the armies of the living God , and calling upon Saul to send him a man to fight him ! 
exclaimed David . 
Joab now approached and thanked David for the present he had brought him , and said : -- `` If thou goest back to Jesse , thy father , tell him not , young man , that thou sawest the army of Israel put in fear by one man , though a giant ! 
asked David . 
interrogatively repeated the graceful shepherd to the men about him , as the champion filled the air with his voice , calling to the combat . 
exclaimed the captain of the thousand regarding him ; while all around made themselves merry at David 's bold words ; seeing he was but a mere youth without armor , dressed in his blue shepherd 's tunic and carrying only his cross-hafted crook in his hand . 
`` Let no man 's heart fail him , O king , this day because of the champion of the Philistines , '' said David , who at once perceived that the king did not recollect him as the beardless youth of two years before who had soothed him with the harp . 
Then David answered firmly , but yet with modesty : `` Thy servant kept his father 's sheep , and there came a lion and a bear , and the bear took a lamb out of the flock , and I pursued and smote him and delivered the lamb out of his mouth ; and when the lion rose against me , I caught him by the beard and smote him and slew him . 
David answered , `` The Lord who delivered me out of the paw of the lion and out of the hand of her bear will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine . 
Joab , who loved him for his courage , hastened and brought the king 's helmet of brass and would have placed it , all too large , upon his head ; and clasped about him the king 's coat of scale-mail ; and girded his own sword upon his thigh : but they proved so much too large for him that they got a suit of Prince Jonathan 's armor which was hanging in the armory of the pavilion , and put it on him with the helmet also ; and David girded the sword upon his thigh ; but unaccustomed to be mailed in full armor , which he now only suffered to be put upon him by the order of the king , who stood by , and even clasped his helmet for him , he could not move at ease , and turning to King Saul , he said respectfully : `` May it please my lord the king to let me put off these as I have not been used to them . 
After a second glance he caught my arm and cried , `` It is David ! 
What madness has possessed him ? 
Let me fly to detain him ! '' 
he called to his armor-bearer and others ; `` go and by force turn him back ! '' 
he cried , hesitatingly ; `` I have not forgotten that he is consecrated and his person is sacred ! 
David was by this time at the brook . 
We saw him bend down and carefully select from the stones in its bed several pebbles , which he placed in his shepherd 's bag at his girdle . 
He then crossed the brook , and taking from the bag a shepherd 's sling , he went forward swiftly . 
answered David . 
David , fearless and cool , continued to approach him , when the giant , as if scorning any fear of him , sat down upon a rock in the plain and said : `` Come to me , and I will give thy flesh unto the fowls of the air and unto the beasts of the field ! 
Then answered David in a clear voice , `` Thou comest to me with a sword , and with a spear , and with a shield ; but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of Hosts , the Godof the armies of Israelwhom thou hast defied ! 
These words so greatly enraged the Philistine that he arose and strode forward to meet David . 
With a terrible death-cry , heard in both armies , he fell over with his face towards David flat upon the earth . 
At his fall the very skies were rent with a shout from the whole Hebrew army . 
As there was no sword in David 's possession , he ran swiftly and stood upon the prostrate Philistine , and took hold of the huge hilt and drew his sword out of the sheath thereof , and seeing he was only stunned by the stone , he drove it through a joint of his coat of mail into his body , killing him . 
He then cut off his head and held it up in the sight of both armies . 
When David was advancing into the plain to meet the Philistine , Saul was heard to inquire of his general , Abner , who the lad was , and whose son he was , so bold and that seemed to have the Spirit of the Lord upon him ? 
Eliab and Abinadab , his now proud brothers , came with us and took up the head to carry after David , and Shammah bore the giant 's sword ! 
With the head of the Philistine in his hand , David entered his pavilion . 
asked Saul , as David placed the gory head of Goliath at the feet of the king . 
Then Saul , looking closely at his face , recognized his skillful harpist , and extending his hand to him , David reverently bent his knee , and kissing it , said : `` Let the lord my king long live and prosper in his kingdom , and let the spirit of wisdom and power rest upon him forever , and let him triumph over all his enemies , as he hath over the Philistine this day . '' 
Prince Jonathan , as David rose to his feet , rushed forward and folded him to his heart , and with expressions of the warmest affection called him `` his brother , '' saying : `` I love thee , David , I love thee even as my own soul . 
`` Nay , did he desire to return to his father 's house , '' said the pleased king , `` I would forbid it . 
I had written thus far , your majesty , the evening of the day on which the wonderful Hebrew , David of Bethlehem , slew the champion of Palestina , when a portion of the conquering army began to return across the plain , sounding their victorious trumpets from afar . 
As we approached the gates of Hebron , the prince and David rode near Saul , by whose side I also had the honor of riding . 
David , with that becoming indifference to public notice which characterizes him , rode by the side of his friend , pleasantly conversing , and seemed to have forgotten that he had performed any unusual feat of valor . 
At times he would turn as his name with that of the king caught his ear , and blush and smile as the enthusiastic multitude , all of whom had heard of his prowess , closely crowded the way to catch a look at the youthful hero who had slain the champion . 
Saul 's eyes flashed with pleasure as he heard , while David looked at the lovely sight with unusual interest . 
`` Thou seest Michal , my sister , dear David ! '' 
In a displeased and angry voice , and in great wrath , he turned to Abner who rode close at hand , and cried : `` They have ascribed unto David ten thousands , and to me they have ascribed but thousands . 
What can he have more but the kingdom ? '' 
The cloud gathered over his soul ; and when he alighted at the palace , his last glance on entering rested upon the youthful David with looks of hatred and implacable jealousy . 
The arrow had entered into his soul , and his happiness at the overthrow of the Philistines was destroyed by the sight of the honored victor receiving the homage and praise due to his courage . 
The guard at his door did not hesitate to admit me , but said , `` He prophesieth , my lord prince , '' King Saul was addressing himself -LRB- when I entered -RRB- to empty space , in a tone of mingled anguish and wrath . 
`` No , David ; he who once played before me , when they said I was mad ! '' 
`` I will send him to your majesty , '' I answered . 
`` Do so -- thou wilt befriend me , O Assyrian , if thou wilt bid him come and bring his harp ! 
Hark ye , my lord of Assur , '' and the king approached and whispered in my ear , in a low , strange whisper , `` tell him not I sent for him ! 
I obeyed the king , and David soon appeared in the king 's presence . 
Neither he nor Jonathan had heard the king 's remark about the song of the virgins , and had no suspicion he felt any malice or jealousy . 
I went in with David , and so also did Jonathan ; and while the youth stood near the wall on the west side of the room playing a noble hymn , we remained not far from the entrance . 
He did not raise his eyes when David entered , who , striking a few noble preluding notes , thus began : -- At this instant , while the last glorious words were yet echoing through the hall in divinest melody , the king rose to his feet and cast with all his force a javelin , hitherto unseen in his hand , straight at the heart of the youthful player ! 
The prince and I both uttered a cry of alarm , but David , whose eyes were upon the king , saw the act and stepping aside avoided the blow . 
The flying javelin , whizzing through the air , struck the wall close behind him , and buried itself deep therein , vibrating like a leaf . 
From this time Saul took no pains to conceal his jealousy and hatred of David . 
He saw that the Spirit of the Lord , as said Abner to me , was upon him ; and probably foresaw in him the future prince of the people . 
The people , however , could talk only of David ; and of the thousands who came from all the cities of Judea to congratulate Saul , their first inquiry was not for the king ; but for David who slew the mighty Philistine of Gath ! 
David behaved himself wisely and prudently . 
David tried to turn all the adulation from himself to the king , and in his whole conduct in a situation so trying proved himself wise , discreet , and worthy of all honor . 
There is now , thanks to the valor of David , security of travel . 
Prince Jonathan and David accompanied me , or rather I went with them by the invitation of the former . 
David gazed upon this sepulchre , as he had upon the others , with reverent contemplation . 
His aspect seemed elevated and ennobled by this vicinity with the mighty dead of his race . 
He spoke but once or twice , but his words were striking , and expressed the depth of his emotions ; for this was the first time he had come to this spot so honored by his countrymen . 
he asked of his friend , pointing to the other vast tomb by its side . 
`` No , '' he answered ; `` here is buried Rachel , his best beloved wife . 
`` Where , '' asked David , looking round , seeking to penetrate the gloom of the vast subterranean chamber , `` was the brave and noble Joseph buried ? '' 
`` This way , '' said the Levite ; and , turning to the left , he conducted us through a narrow opening in the south wall , partly rock , partly artificial , which was nine feet in thickness ; and we found ourselves in a narrow apartment hewn partly out of the rock , and with a cavernous roof , lighted dimly by a single lamp of Egyptian form . 
After David reached Hebron , he was reminded by Jonathan that the trophies he had won should be conveyed to the temple of arms in Jerusalem , as the prince terms the name of the town . 
We , therefore , one morning rode thither , David bearing the head and sword , -LRB- assisted by his three brethren , -RRB- and others conveying the coat-of-mail , helmet of brass , greaves , and trousers of iron chains , flexible as woven cloth . 
`` The day will come , '' said David , as we glanced at these ancient foes of his race , yet unconquered , though living at peace with the Hebrews , `` when some brave king of Israel will drive these vultures from their rock , and plant above the fortress the standard of God ! 
He seemed to speak as by inspiration ! 
His eyes were bright and flashing , and his voice rung like a trumpet ! 
We were all surprised ; it was so unlike his usual manner , which was retiring and quiet . 
If , your majesty , the conquest be effected , I felt it would be by his arm when he shall become king ! 
He is yet young . 
David 's trophies were received by the keeper of the citadel , the sword and head being delivered with his own hand to the lord of the armory . 
He himself was treated with the greatest distinction , and Eliab , and Abinadab , and Shammah , took great pains to make known aloud to the admiring soldiers and citizens that they were brothers to the hero ! 
I shall , early in the morning , after seeing my caravan well in motion , ride into Hebron to take my leave of the king , of the noble prince to whom I am greatly attached , of the valorous and wonderful David whom I love scarcely less , of the valiant Abner , Saul 's general in chief , of the ambitious and fierce young Joab , who seems fit only for a man of war , and lastly not least , of the princess Michal , and Adora the beautiful and captivating daughter of Isrilid of Jericho . 
First went four hundred horsemen of my legion , then followed the two hundred camels laden with the bridal gifts with their drivers , and after them the three hundred led Assyrian horses , save twenty of the handsomest I had presented to the king , two to the prince , and two to David . 
`` He has again attempted the life of David ! 
This morning he sent for him to play before him . 
He fearlessly and benevolently , for he is all goodness and love , obeyed . 
While he played , the king a second time launched a javelin at his head , his face being turned from him . 
It was not steadily thrown in the passion of the act , but passed close to his cheek fanning it with its wind . 
David at once came to me , and said : -- ``` It is necessary that I should leave the king 's presence forever ! 
``` Nay , your majesty , I am but a shepherd , ' replied David , modestly ; ` who am I that I should be son-in-law to the king ? '' 
If thou givest one of my sisters to David , let it be Michal ! ' 
doth he refuse Merab ? ' 
`` Thus answered the king in the ear of his wily armor-bearer , '' continued Jonathan , in relating the conversations and events ; `` and turned to David , who had not overheard their private discourse , and said , ``` If thou preferrest Michal , I will give thee her . 
`` At these words , David , who would risk his life a hundred times for love of Michal , '' added Prince Jonathan , `` answered the king , with his eyes bright with mingled love and valiancy , ``` The words of the lord , my king , please his servant well . 
`` I at once saw , O Arbaces , -LRB- for I conceal nothing from thee , -RRB- '' said Prince Jonathan , `` that my father hoped to cause David to fall by the swords of the Philistines . 
Therefore I said to him , ` O king , my friend David hath already won Michal by the death of Goliath . 
`` Thus saying , my father strode away , leaning on Doeg , the crafty Edomite , and looking back with bitter envy upon David . 
She silently received my courteous homage to her presence ; while Michael , gentle and beautiful , though now pale and anxious at David 's departure on so dangerous an expedition , met me with friendly cordiality . 
`` You will be interested to hear of the result of my beloved and brave David 's foray into the fastnesses of the Philistine country . 
On the evening of the second day he drew near the gates of Ekron , having concealed his one hundred men-at-arms in a wood , and being challenged from the walls , he answered that he came after one hundred heads of the Philistines ! 
By the captain of the guard stood Malic , the armor-bearer of Goliath , who at once knew David , and hastened to the lord of the city , and told him , ` David , the slinger and champion who slew my master , standeth over against the gate and challengeth all the garrison ! '' 
`` The tall Philistine lord then issued from his portal , and advanced sword in hand to slay David , when he discharged a spear , and transfixed his heart , so that he fell dead . 
Thereupon David ran and smote off his head , and lifting it up as a signal , his one hundred men appeared , and followed him sword in hand into the gate which the Philistine lord had left wide open , with the portcullis up , and the drawbridge down . 
David and his hundred men pursued them from street to street , slaying and beheading all who opposed them ; until each man in his company held two Philistine heads in his hand . 
Not until then did David give the word to stop the battle , when he left the city without a wound either on his own body , or on those of his followers . 
The next evening he re-appeared with his trophies before Hebron , and entering the port of the city , the gory band presented itself before Saul with David at their head ; and as each man laid his double burden at the king 's door , the son of Jesse said , ``` Behold , O king , twice the tale of the price of thy daughter 's hand ! 
But he had too much kingly honor , with all his hatred of David , to deny his given word ! 
for with all my father 's strange conduct , he has never lost a certain native nobility of soul , which in earlier years made him worthy to be the king of a brave and free people . 
He said to David , ` Follow me ! ' 
`` Leading him into the house , and calling for Michal , who had just heard of David 's success , and was flying half-timidly , half-joyfully , to hide herself in her own chamber , he took her by the hand , and said to David as he placed it in his , ``` She is thy wife ! 
The new palace had been the day before taken possession of by the king and his whole household , and David was given apartments therein ; and the next day receiving from my father a command of two thousand men , became a resident of Hebron , and daily we were happy in each other 's society . 
`` The week following the marriage of David , the Philistines grew brave enough to invade the land with a force of four thousand men , and even menaced Bethlehem . 
The prowess of David alone had , without question , hitherto kept them back . 
The twentieth day after his nuptials , news came that a company of the Philistines had carried off the flock of Jesse his father , and slain one of his brothers . 
cried the king in a tone , I fear , of exultation , entering David 's room , where he sat singing a sweet hymn of his own composition , to his young wife and myself : ` But what is it to thee , that art tied to thy wife 's distaff for a twelvemonth ? 
cried David , letting his harp fall , and starting to his feet . 
`` That very hour David tore himself from the arms of his bride , and at the head of his two thousand men pursued the Philistines , who were leisurely retiring with their booty . 
He came up with them , and attacked them with terrible vengeance , slew nearly every man of the four thousand men , recovered his flocks , and retook all their captives and spoil , with which , on the third day , he returned to Bethlehem , the inhabitants of which received him with open arms and unbounded joy . 
Michal , my sister , desires to be remembered to Prince Arbaces , whom she greatly esteems as the friend of David and Jonathan , as well as for his own virtues . 
for I know how deep is the interest felt by my lord of Ashur in all that concerns my dear master and his friend , the valiant David , son-in-law to the king . 
It was Doeg who told him what Jonathan and all others would have had kept from him , that is , the honors that were paid David at Bethlehem . 
When my noble young master entered the king 's presence , modestly and humbly , the king , his father , said to him , while I stood by , for I was afraid to trust my lord in the presence of his father alone , knowing how he felt so sorely displeased at him because he loved David , ``` Who is this with thee ? 
I dare to say these base lords of Bethlehem sang the old song to him : `` Saul has slain his thousands , and David his tens of thousands . '' 
At length he said : ``` Let the king remember justice and clemency , and not meditate this great sin against David who hath not sinned against thee ; but whose works have ever been for the king 's good , and the glory of his kingdom . ' 
By the advice of Jonathan , David immediately went out of the city , and remained concealed in the house of a friend until he should hear from the prince , who resolved not to cease pleading for the life of David with his father . 
The zeal , courage , and eloquence of his appeals for his friend softened the king , and before Jonathan left him , Saul revoked the order which he had given to Doeg and others to find and slay David , and made an oath to the prince in these solemn words : ` As the Lord liveth he shall not be slain ! ' 
`` The prince with great joy hastened first to his sister , David 's young bride , and made known to her his unexpected success , filling her heart with joy , and then went forth to where his friend waited to hear from him , and brought him back to the city , and openly before Doeg and others conducted him into the presence of the king , who received him with words of favor and bade him , as heretofore , go in and out before him without fear . 
David , desirous of manifesting his gratitude to the king , at once marched out to war with the two thousand men over which he was captain ; and this morning , news has reached us that he has overthrown them , and is driving them back to their own land with great slaughter . 
`` Jonathan accompanied David in this expedition , my lord Arbaces , and it was at his departure he entrusted to me his letter to seal and send to your highness . '' 
David accompanied himself upon the harp , and thus sang before him : ``` Then let the mercy of the God of gods save thee , thou thorn in my side -- shadow upon my path ! ' 
It shivered in the wall , and David fled the presence , followed by the indignant Jonathan . 
In a moment , the voice of the king was roaring through the palace , calling on his guards to pursue and slay David . 
`` A dart sent after him by Doeg was caught upon my shield , and I covered the escape of the noble young man not without great difficulty . 
Jonathan was familiar with the avenues of the new palace , and by crossing the terrace and descending to the garden , he succeeded in gaining a secret place for David , where we remained hidden until the king had searched his house ; after which we secretly went thither and left him in temporary safety . 
Thence the prince went and prepared fleet horses outside of the walls , and that night Michal let David through the window upon the wall to the moat beneath . 
There Jonathan met , and silently embracing him , they rode together across the plain of Mamre , when the two friends parting , one proceeded on to his venerable teacher and friend , Samuel the Seer , for protection and counsel , while the other hastened back to the city before he should be missed by the king : who , finding that he could not accomplish David 's death by craft , hath thrown off all dissimulation and openly and publicly commands his son and his whole court to destroy him as a traitor to his throne ; substituting for the veil of private murder the cloak of a public execution . 
Whether he swore deceitfully , my lord Arbaces , when he made oath not to slay David , or whether in his madness he held no responsibility for his words and acts , is not clear . 
The more services the noble youth did his country , so much the more did King Saul 's envy and hatred increase against him . 
We had not been many minutes gone away , when Saul , who believed David to be in the city , and concealed by his wife , suddenly sent an officer with a guard to surround the wing of the palace where she abode in order to surprise him . 
Before admitting the king 's captain she placed on the couch David 's cuirass , and shirt-of-mail , and apparel arrayed like the image of a person , placed a pillow to elevate it at the head , and spread over the the whole a coverlid , so that it had the appearance of a man asleep in bed , with his head and face covered . 
What unjust action canst thou charge against David , son of Jesse , that thou thus pursuest him to the death like a hunted deer -- a man who hath delivered our nation from the derision and reproach which , for forty days , they endured from the champion of Gath , and who alone had courage enough to meet and destroy him ? 
`` Saul listened unmoved by this address , which , or similar ones , had aforetime moved him to swear David should not be slain . 
But now he gave no ear to his son . 
He answered him not by look or word , but turning to his daughter said : -- ``` Thou art my enemy , O woman ! 
I believed when I gave thee to him thou wouldst have been a snare to him ! ' 
``` I deceived thee , therefore , to give him time to fly far from danger , ' she answered . 
` I knew and told him if the sun when it rises should find him in Hebron , it will be the last time he would see it rise ; for , ' said I , ` if my father find thee here , thou art a dead man ! 
The prophet , being early walking by the walls , met him near the gate of the city , and received him with such warmth of affection and pride , that David felt he had still a powerful friend in the ` Friend of God , ' and he was thereby strengthened in heart and spirit . 
From thence David , by one of the youthful prophets , Nathan , sent secretly to Michal news of his safety . 
Let an armed company go to Ramah and seize David , though the Seer himself hold him back by his girdle ! ' 
`` When they came into Ramah and stood before the gate of the House Naioth , they were admitted into the Hall of Praise , where they beheld Samuel with David by his side , and the seventy young prophets with their seven teachers , all with harps , and nebals , and cymbals , and dulcimers , and with voices engaged in singing and playing before the Lord ; Samuel himself sublimely prophesying , and the singers answering with their voices . 
These men at length returned to the king and said : ` That the Spirit of God had come upon them , and they had no power to take David , but on the contrary they could not but join him in his hymns to God , and leave him at peace . ' 
A third time , yesterday , he sent others , led by Doeg , all fierce and cruel men , and when these came in the presence of the Seer and of David , instead of arresting him , they commenced dancing to a sweet melody which he at the time was playing upon the harp , striking their swords against their bucklers and making the Hall of Praise ring with the fall of their iron-shod feet . 
At his will the young psalmist moved them by his skill ; now they would move slowly at his slow measure ; now he would strike his harp with quick strokes , and compel them , unable to resist the power he mysteriously had over them , to fly along in dizzy circles around him , wildly and violently agitated and foaming at the mouth , and shouting as if demoniacally possessed . 
At length , when they were utterly exhausted , he released them from this spell by ceasing to play , when they reeled from the hall like men drunken with wine , and made their way to Hebron to report to Saul how the harp of David had made them mad , and compelled them to prophesy like demoniacs . 
He rode all night , and at daybreak came to the well of Sechu by the twelve oaks , and there heard that Samuel and David had gone from Ramah . 
Samuel and David are still at Naioth in Ramah ! ' 
`` Then the king rode swiftly to the city , which he entered in haste , lest David should escape him . 
Ere he drew near the house of Naioth , or ever Samuel beheld him he dismounted , and all at once began to act like a man suddenly become demoniac . 
Upon reaching the house of Samuel , he beheld the Seer standing on the balcony with the youthful David by his side . 
The venerable prophet did not speak to him , but his brow was stern with displeasure mingled with pity . 
Saul fiercely called out to David by the gods of the Philistines to come down and deliver himself into his hand . 
But David , at a sign from the prophet , struck his harp . 
As he danced , he prophesied like the prophets of Baal , not like the prophets of God . 
As David played on , the wild impulses of his limbs and the extravagant ecstacies of his manner increased , so that it seemed as if the evil demon , who possesses him since he was forsaken of God , and which the divine harp of David once drove from him , had now by the same harp been summoned to enter into him ; and not only to punish him for his intentions against his innocent son-in-law , but to expose him to the derision of all who saw him or heard of his shameless performances ; for he had not danced long ere in his phrenzy he flung down his helmet , divested himself of his cuirass and greaves , then stripped off his tunic , rent his royal robe , and cast it to the ground , and trampled upon it ; and so continued to deprive himself of all his clothing , until there alone remained his woolen under-garments . 
In this indecent undress he continued to dance and prophesy to the gods , until exhausted he sunk to the ground , and lay there wallowing and foaming like a wild beast of the desert . 
It is said that when Saul had thrown off his kingly robe to the ground , Samuel commanded David to go down and take it out of the dust ; and that he did so , throwing it across his arm as he bore it to the prophet . 
This is said by our wise men to foreshadow the reign of David on the throne of Israel ; for there is a tradition that if a king let fall his royal robe , whosoever taketh it up will , by and by , lawfully wear it . 
All eyes are therefore turned towards David with new interest . 
`` While the king lay thus in the deep trance which followed his violence , David secretly left the palace of Naioth , and escaping from Ramah , accompanied by his friend Nathan the prophet , he came to Gibeah where he met Jonathan , who was on his way with his whole body-guard of one thousand men to protect him , having not heard of his father 's secret and sudden departure by night from Hebron until he had waked the following morning . 
How wonderful David 's numerous escapes from death ! 
There was surely a divine power which interposed for David , and brought upon the king such a strange malady . 
David is evidently under his care , and heaven-defended in all his paths . 
Only a madman would continue to combat against one so plainly sheltered under the wings of his God . 
If your majesty will refer to the letter of Heleph , the armor-bearer , a copy of which I sent you from Egypt nearly three years ago , and but a few days before my imprisonment , you will find that he closed his narrative as King Saul was approaching Hebron , after his mortifying and unsuccessful attempt to seize David in Ramah while protected by the Seer . 
You will there learn how David , taking advantage of the trance into which the king was thrown by the power of Samuel and by David 's harp , fled from Ramah , and met Jonathan with a thousand men coming to his relief , and that by him he was secretly escorted to his father 's house at Bethlehem . 
After Saul returned to his palace , David privately came to his own house by night , and sent Michal for her brother . 
But Michal , his wife , went and entreated her father so earnestly , and with such a flood of tears , to forego his vengeance against her husband , that he relented ; and , in her joy , she told him David was with her . 
he said . 
But David did not feel secure ; though he remained several days in the palace , and sought to please the king in every way , and three times a day sitting at meat before him . 
Thou shalt not die , my beloved David , '' answered the prince . 
He hides nothing from me ! '' 
`` But the king knoweth that I have been so honored as to find such grace in thine eyes as to be chosen by thee thy bosom friend , and will he not say , ` What I do I will withhold from my son , lest he betray it to David ? '' ' 
`` Behold , '' said David , `` to-morrow is the new moon and the three days ' feast beginneth . 
As David spoke , tears filled his expressive and earnest eyes , and brushing them away he continued : -- `` It is not fear!I do not fear death ! 
`` Nay , dear David , '' said the prince , `` if I knew certainly that evil were determined by my father to come upon thee , would I not tell it thee ? 
Here the prince raised his right hand to heaven , and swore before the Lord that he would certainly ascertain his father 's mind and make it known to David ! 
This touching language deeply moved David ! 
David , with emotion , made the promise , and clasping the hand of his prince he raised his right arm to heaven and confirmed it by a solemn oath : `` If I fail thee or thine in this , let the Lord requite it upon me , and let the enemies of Saul become David 's adversaries ! '' 
David immediately left for Bethlehem , but previously arranged how Jonathan should give him information without visiting him , and thus exciting Saul 's suspicions ; for next to his hatred against David was aroused his indignation at the firm and unshaken friendship which existed between his son and his foe . 
He felt that Jonathan did him a great injury by not making the quarrel also his own , and he had , the very morning on which the conversation I have just given , -LRB- as it has been reported to me , -RRB- charged him with being `` Saul 's enemy , because he was David 's friend . '' 
The day of the holy feast came , and David 's place was empty . 
The king was observed to look steadily at the vacant seat , but he made no remark . 
On the morrow , also , David 's seat was empty at the king 's table . 
Abner , his general , sat on his right hand , and Jonathan on his left . 
Thus , all the royal family being present , the absence of David , to whom every one believed his father-in-law was fully reconciled , was the more marked ! 
`` David earnestly asked leave of me to go to Bethlehem , '' answered the prince ; `` for his family have a sacrifice there to-day , and his elder brother commanded him to be present there . 
I gave him the permission he sought . 
Therefore his place is empty at the king 's table ! '' 
Thus Jonathan 's bold friendship for David had brought his own life into jeopardy . 
The prince in great and just anger rose from the table , grieved more for David than for himself , for he now plainly saw that his friend 's death was determined upon ! 
Without doubt , your majesty , King Saul had received some intimation that it was David to whom his offended God was to give his forfeited throne , and hence his persistent and relentless purpose to slay him ! 
Upon leaving the king 's presence , the offended prince sought his sister , David 's young wife , for sympathy ; and together they discussed the danger of David . 
While she said that he must no more come to Hebron , she expressed herself ready to go to him , and accompany him in all his wanderings . 
David was concealed in this suburban garden behind the stone pillar of Ezel , as had been previously arranged between them . 
When he came within hearing of David , he cried to the lad , `` Run , find out now the arrows which I shoot ! '' 
As the page ran forward , he shot three arrows far beyond him . 
It had previously been agreed upon by Jonathan with David , that if he heard him call out to the page , `` The arrows are on this side of thee ! '' 
he would understand that it was peace between his father and him , and he might return into his house without fear ; but if he said , `` The arrows are beyond thee ! '' 
he must in haste make his escape ; and if he did so go away , he must not forget his vow to be a friend to his kindred for the sake of the love between them . 
he then added for the ears of David , still addressing the lad , `` Make speed -- haste -- stay not ! '' 
The page made haste to gather up the arrows , not suspecting the twofold signification of the words spoken to him . 
David heard and understood that they were for his own warning , and knew , thereby , that his life was certainly sought by the king . 
When the youth had brought again the arrows to his master , he said to him , `` Go -- take the bow and quiver within the gates , and await my coming . '' 
As soon as the page had disappeared , Jonathan , now that he had turned aside suspicion by his archery pastime , went forward , and David met him at a place where they were sheltered from the palace by a group of oleander trees . 
`` My lord , '' said David , with looks of deep sadness , `` I am then to be an exile ! 
As he spoke , feeling his own loneliness and humiliation as an outcast , he bowed himself thrice towards the earth , as was the custom of petitioners to the prince or the king , and said , `` Say farewell to my beloved bride ! 
`` Thither I will fly , '' sorrowfully answered David , `` till this calamity be overpast . 
`` I am weary of flying from this death , '' said David , with deep feeling . 
Jonathan 's heart swelled as he listened to this touching and tender language ; and he gazed tearfully on the pale and suffering visage of the persecuted yet innocent young man , whom he loved as his own soul ; and , with a sudden outburst of grief , he threw himself upon his shoulder . 
Jonathan felt the weight of David 's form suddenly become heavy as he rested upon his breast , and looking with alarm in his face , he saw that he had fainted away . 
With a cry of anguish , and bitter thoughts rising against his father , he gently let the lifeless form of his beloved David down upon the green grass . 
May thy house and my house forever be even as Jonathan and David ! '' 
A few more words of tenderest affection , and the two friends folded each other in a final embrace ; and , silently disengaging themselves , they separated ; David going away by the path which led to the hills , and the prince , -LRB- after following him with longing looks of love , as the wanderer often glanced affectionately back to him , -RRB- slowly , and with a heavy heart , re-entered the city . 
But the trials of this prince of God , David the son of Jesse , on account of Saul , were not yet over ; for when he had reached the strong place called Nob , over against Jerusalem on the north , to which place the tabernacle , or high temple of the Hebrews , had recently been removed by Saul , and which hence became the centre of the national worship , Ahimelech feared to receive him for dread of the king 's anger . 
I will , in my next letter , your majesty , return to the fortunes of the fugitive young shepherd David , who , flying from the persecution of King Saul , bent his steps towards the sacred city of the Tabernacle , to seek shelter at its altar , and protection from its High Priest , the venerable Ahimelech ; for in all lands there is a sacred right associated with the Sanctuary , that human power , however lawless , has never ceased to recognize and respect . 
David had proceeded but a few miles on his way towards Nob , which is thirty miles north of Hebron , when he came to a grove of palms , under which was a well . 
Here , seeing only maidens with their pitchers , he approached , and sat down to rest a little ways off in the shade . 
Two of the virgins , who dwelt in a village close at hand , who came to the well for water , after observing him a little while , spoke together , and then blushingly drew near him , one who was about sixteen , carrying her pitcher , and the other , a lovely child of fourteen , holding in her hand a basket of dates and figs , which she had just gathered not far off to take to her home . 
The youngest and most beautiful of the two , smiling with a kind benevolent expression in her soft eye , said , `` Young stranger , you look tired , and I dare say have traveled far ! 
`` David ! '' 
The eldest was a graceful and intelligent young man , called Ahithophel , famous for his wit and scholarship , as well as for his attachment to David ; the next , a brave soldier and captain of horse , named Uriah of Heth , a dark , handsome young man , with Canaanitish blood in his veins , but a Hebrew from choice , who had fought thrice against the Philistines under David in his late battles , and admired him with true military devotion . 
The third was a kind-hearted , devoted , and courageous Hebrew youth , Hushai , who greatly esteemed David for his bravery and virtues , though he was not a soldier himself , only a rich , young citizen of Hebron , son of the chief lord of the king 's treasury . 
All three knew of Saul 's persecution of David , and were indignant , and felt for him ; and when they heard from Prince Jonathan that he had fled from the king , they consulted together and agreed to follow him and join their fortunes to his . 
When David learned that they had come after him for this kind purpose , he would have sent them back , but they would not be prevailed upon to leave him ; and as one of them , Uriah , had , thoughtfully , brought along with him David 's own horse , one of the two presented to him by me , the young exile mounted the noble animal , and , gratefully acknowledging their kindness , thankfully accepted their company and protection , which , as they were all three well armed , was not to be despised . 
Said Uriah , as he galloped along by his friend David 's side : `` It was by the information of two little maidens at the well we knew that you were in advance of us , noble captain . 
Upon my inquiring if such a person as thyself had been seen , the younger replied that a young stranger had been there , and asked if ` the person we sought was named David ? ' 
I replied that it was his name . 
She then said , ` If you are his friends , I will tell you which way he went ; but if his enemies , I will not open my lips , for he is so good and looked so brave , and yet so sad , too , and he is so handsome ! ' 
The next morning , they found that the whole country was full of armed parties searching for David by the command of Saul . 
David , looking up , saw the man named , crossing the square of the Tabernacle with two men by his side . 
Their backs were to him ; but he at once feared that Saul had sent him to take him even there ; and , bidding his companions follow him , he galloped on quickly to the front of the Tabernacle , leaped from his horse , and entered the curtained door of the House of God , leaving his friends , who had nothing to apprehend , without to wait for him . 
David drew near , and taking firm hold of one of the horns of the altar , lifted up his voice in a divinely inspired hymn : `` Who art thou , and whence comest thou ? '' 
At this moment , David , perceiving the venerable High Priest standing by the door of the inner Tabernacle , and recognizing him by his robes and ephod , hastened to him and said , kneeling down before him : `` Holy Father , I have sought shelter in the House of God , and at His altar , from the anger of a foe who seeks my life . '' 
asked Ahimelech , regarding the prostrate youth with interest , as he raised him from the ground . 
`` David , the son of Jesse ! '' 
he exclaimed . 
David perceived by this that the High Priest feared Saul , and that it would not be prudent to let him know the truth . 
David at once hastened to give the bread to his three friends before breaking it for himself . 
Outside of the entrance of the court of the Tabernacle , as he stood therein to call to his companions , he beheld , to his dismay , the dark and ill-visaged Doeg standing talking with Uriah , whom he well knew . 
The Edomite , who was a `` proselyte of justice '' to the Hebrew faith , had come to the Tabernacle four days before , not only to dispose of bullocks and lambs for the temple ; being chief lord of Saul 's herds , but to perform a vow , and knew not of the flight of David ; nor did he suspect but that the three young men were there also to fulfill some vow ; nor did they undeceive him . 
When , therefore , he turned and saw David , laden with the sacred loaves , call to them , he looked amazed and began to suspect something wrong . 
He was too profound a dissembler , however , to betray his suspicions , and saluting David with his usual cold dislike , he entered the Tabernacle . 
There he learned that David had sought sanctuary . 
The same hour , news of his flight , brought by messengers of the king , reached him . 
David was greatly troubled at seeing Saul 's potent servant there ; and after satisfying his hunger , he returned into the Tabernacle and said to Ahimelech , `` Is there not in thy possession spear or sword ? 
answered David gladly ; for he feared Doeg 's evil eye , and resolved to arm himself against his treachery . 
He knew , also , that Saul 's men-at-arms had reached Nob in pursuit of him ; but Ahimelech was yet ignorant of it . 
As soon as he received the sword he went out , and feeling that he might compromise before Saul the timid High Priest by remaining in sanctuary with him , he rejoined his friends , and the four left the city at full speed , and just in time to escape being shut in by the closing gates ; for Doeg had been busy with the captain of the place , and persuaded him to hasten to detain David that he might be taken ; for the fierce Edomite , David well knew , would not have hesitated to have taken him from the very horns of the Altar of the Sanctuary . 
`` My own land is unsafe for me , '' said David as he regarded it ; `` this land of the Philistines can not be more so ! '' 
Let my lord David go hence into the Philistine country . 
David , after a little reflection , resolved to take shelter in the land of his hereditary foes ; and the party descending the mountain rode south-westwardly in the direction of Gath . 
When David reached the gates of Gath , where Goliath dwelt , he was received by the magnificent barbarian king with frankness and hospitality ; for the Philistine rejoiced to have so powerful a warrior taken from Saul , and added to himself . 
These people , being a nation of warriors , respect valor as the greatest of virtues ; and although David had slain their champion , the king admired so greatly his courage , that he preferred rather to pay him honor than avenge the death of Goliath and others upon him . 
He therefore offered him the command of a thousand men , and felt proud of having so brave a soldier in his service . 
A few days afterwards , as David rode by the side of the King of Gath , who displayed his armies before him , some of the captains and lords of the Philistines murmured , and said , in his hearing : -- `` Is not this the warrior chief of the Hebrews ? 
Is not this he of whom they sang one to another when he had slain our champion , and bore his head to their temple to offer it to his God , as if it were a bullock 's head , saying , ` Saul hath slain his thousands and David his ten thousands ! ' 
These words troubled David and his friends . 
To this cave the three young men conveyed David , it being very secluded , and also , from its elevated position in the rocks , easily defended , and its approaches readily commanded by the eye . 
Here they made him a bed of skins , and , while Uriah kept guard at the mouth of the cave , Ahithophel remained by his side , and Hushai sought food from the villages or by hunting . 
In the meanwhile , the king ceased not to hunt for him throughout all the realm , and his wrath was greatly increased against him when he heard that he had fled to the court and protection of his enemy , Achish ; and it is said , that the real cause of the coolness of the Philistine monarch was produced by Doeg , the Edomite , who had been sent to Gath to whisper that David was artfully there as Saul 's spy upon its strongholds . 
This vengeance of the Hebrew king against an innocent person created a strong feeling of sympathy for David , and when it became known that he was fortified at the rock of Adullam , not far from Hebron , numbers flocked to him , not only of his friends who had fought in Saul 's service with him , but men of all classes ! 
Word was now brought David secretly from Jonathan , that Saul , despairing of capturing him , had resolved to seize upon the persons of his aged parents at Bethlehem , and hold them as hostages until he should come and deliver himself up . 
The same hour David rose up , and taking three hundred men with him , leaving Uriah with one hundred to guard their fortified cave , he went to his father 's house , and taking his invalid father and aged mother thence , he fled with them from Saul across the Jordan to Mizpeh , a city of the King of Moab . 
David gladly presented his venerable parents to the king , who gave them a house near his own palace , and entreated them for David 's sake , as well as their own , with great favor . 
At the court of the King of Moab , was a friend of David , one of the seven prophet Teachers of Ramah , whom I have already spoken of to your majesty . 
His name was Gad , and he was in great favor with the king , being allied to him by kindred , for the King of Moab had married a Hebrew woman , and was friendly to the nation ; but Saul had offended him , and hence his friendly reception of David . 
The prophet Gad rejoiced to see David , but being inspired to reveal the future , he warned him that his safety and prosperity depended on his returning into the land of Judah . 
`` If thou desirest it , '' he added , `` I will go with thee and abide by thee , and aid thee with my friendship and by mine office . '' 
David joyfully accepted this powerful ally ; for a prophet is as a prince in rank in this religious land , and usually attends only kings ; and the presence of this man he felt would give great weight to his cause ; for `` cause '' his affair had now become , he having been forced by Saul to head a faction for his own preservation . 
But when Saul reached the cave of Adullam , and found it empty , he inquired of a herdsman who was friendly to David , the way David had taken , who purposely said , `` To the north , towards Jerusalem ; with a thousand men at his back . '' 
The king believing he had marched thither to capture his armory , hastened to defend the place . 
Upon reaching it , he could hear nothing of him , and so continued his march upon Gibeah ; and thence to Ramah , believing he had marched thither to hold counsel of Samuel the Seer . 
The High Priest , though naturally timid and gentle , seemed to be inspired by his God with courage , for he replied firmly and fearlessly : `` And who , O king , is so faithful among all thy servants as David , which is the king 's son-in-law , who ever did thy bidding , and was as honorable in thy house for his virtues and wisdom , as on the field by his valor and skill in defending thy crown and kingdom ? 
Had I done so for David , the king might impute blame to his servant . 
The sacred city was taken by Doeg , and not only were three hundred more persons slain in the city , but all the wives , daughters , and sons of the Levites , and all the remnant of the Gibeonites therein , and all the infants were put to the sword by the vengeance of Saul against David . 
But one person escaped , Abiathar , the eldest son of Ahimelech , who , having remained behind in the Tabernacle to burn incense in the Sanctuary , secreted himself until the massacre was over , when he secretly fled from the ruins of the city of God , and reaching the camp of David in the forests of Hareth , made known to him what Saul had done . 
Upon hearing these dreadful tidings , David was deeply moved , and , embracing Abiathar , with tears , he said in a tone of self-reproach : `` I knew it that day when Doeg , the Edomite , was there , whose tongue deviseth mischief , and who loves evil more than good . 
He then said , `` Abide thou with me , Abiathar ; for thou shalt be very dear to me henceforward . 
I come now , your majesty , to a series of incidents in David 's wonderful career , which show the excellency and dignity of his character , his patriotism , justice , and clemency . 
The Philistines , taking advantage of Saul 's pursuit of David , invaded lower Judea and robbed the granaries of the Hebrews . 
David , without delay , assembled six hundred followers , marched against them , and smote them with great slaughter ; and , relieving the Hebrew city of Keilah which the Philistines had laid siege to , he entered it , and garrisoned it with his own men . 
When Saul heard this , instead of giving David praise for driving his foe from the land , and , therefore , seeing in him a faithful subject , he cried with exultation : `` God hath delivered him into mine hand ; for he is shut in by entering into a town which hath gates and bars ! '' 
David being warned by the divine oracle through Abiathar , who was with him , and now the real High Priest of the nation , that Saul would come against him , and the citizens of Keilah , for dread of Saul 's vengeance , would deliver him into the king 's hand , marched forth from the city by night , and sought the fastnesses of the wilderness of Ziph , east of Hebron ; for in it were numerous caves and lurking places , where Saul 's army could not easily penetrate . 
Here David strengthened his retreat in a military manner , and remained on the watch against Saul , who dared not attack him in the depths of this wilderness of trees and rocks . 
One evening , as David was walking in the forest , going from outpost to outpost , attended only by Uriah , his armor-bearer , in order to see that all were vigilant , for Saul was in the neighborhood , three men suddenly appeared in the path . 
The moon shone broadly down upon them , and , with a cry of joy , David ran forward and fell on the neck of the foremost of the two , exclaiming : `` The Lord hath blessed me indeed in letting me , O Jonathan , behold thy face once more ! '' 
`` And me also , O David , in permitting me to come safely to thee , '' answered the prince , embracing his friend again and again , and holding him off to look into his face to see what change had taken place therein . 
`` Thou art older and darker , and more stern in look , dearest David ! 
David 's heart was gladdened by the presence of these friends ; and he told Joab he should be the chief commander of his men . 
`` Thou art so good to come to see me , '' said David tenderly . 
`` No , David , '' answered the prince . 
Fear me not , my David ! 
He shall not find thee to come to thee ! 
Before day David accompanied his friend to the verge of the forest , and there renewing their oath of perpetual friendship , they parted , Jonathan taking a memorial from the young husband to his bride in Hebron . 
This visit of his friend strengthened the heart of David , as did the coming to him of Joab , his hand . 
Not far from the forest was the city of the Ziphites , who , fearing Saul , sent to him to offer to betray David into his hand . 
* These men returned from the king to their forests , and would have betrayed David , but being warned by the prophet Gad , and by the oracle of Abiathar , of danger , the heaven-guarded wanderer changed his camp to the wilderness of Maon , farther south . 
Saul pursued David to this place , when a messenger came bringing intelligence that an army of the Philistines taking advantage of his war against David , had invaded his kingdom . 
The king hesitated for awhile , whether to continue his pursuit of David , or turn back and march against the enemy of his country . 
Revenge and patriotism struggled for the mastery in his stormy bosom , but the latter prevailed , and he went against the Philistines , while David leisurely fortified himself in a stronghold , near the Sea of Sodoma , called En-geddi , a land of vineyards and of plenty , of wild rocks where the goats browse , and of fertile vales . 
The warlike Saul having defeated and punished his enemies the Philistines , returned with three thousand men , and followed David among the very cliffs and caves of En-geddi . 
In these caves David and all his men were concealed . 
Saul , not supposing he was near them , driven to seek shelter from the sun , left his attendants without and entered a cave , in the dark recesses of which David and fifty of his men lay hidden . 
David saw the king enter , his tall , martial form clearly relieved against the sky of the opening . 
He recognized him immediately , and made a sign for his followers to remain quiet . 
Uriah then came near and said to David , `` Behold the Lord hath delivered thine enemy into thine hand , to do to him as it shall seem good unto thee ! '' 
`` Nay , '' said David : `` I am not his foe ! 
David then advanced to where lay the stern king whose jealous hatred had so embittered his life , and with his knife he severed the border of his robe ; and taking the piece in his hand he returned to his men who were grieved and angry that he had not slain him . 
At length , Saul awoke and rose up and left the cave , followed by David , who from the outlet thereof called after him , `` My lord the king ! '' 
Saul turned and beheld David , who bowed with his face to the earth before him , and said aloud , `` O king , live forever ! 
Believe no more what men tell thee , ` that David seeketh thy hurt ! ' 
At first he did not know David by his features , his face had so changed by exposure and hardships ; but he recognized the noble voice which had so often soothed his melancholy , and when David had ended , he cried with emotion , `` Is this thyvoice , my son David ? 
David lifted his hand to the Lord , and took the oath Saul required of him ; himself exacting of the king no oath , as he might well have done , that he would cease his persecution of him , and leave him in peace . 
Saul , without drawing any nearer to David , turned and gathered his army , and left the caves and strongholds of En-geddi , and the same day turned to go back to Hebron . 
But David too well knew the king 's inconstancy , and that his reconciliation was the result of a momentary emotion of gratitude , and admiration of noble qualities he once possessed himself , and could still appreciate even in his enemy ; and remembering the saying , `` Trust not with too credulous a heart an enemy reconciled , for though he humble himself , yet take good heed and beware of him , '' he durst not stay in such an exposed and well-known position , and immediately removed from the caves to the strongholds of the highest hills . 
In the language of David to me , who wrote a noble enlogium upon his death : `` He was a man of irreproachable integrity , undaunted fortitude , unblemished and unaffected piety , sincere as a friend , gentle as a man , virtuous as a Judge , and holy as a Prophet . '' 
His death threw the whole nation into profound grief , and by command of King Saul extraordinary honors were paid to his memory . 
The new and young king of the Philistines , Goliath of Gath , the giant , who was slain many years afterwards by David in the vale of Elah , attacked the guardians of the Ark itself , with his own hands slew Hophni and Phineas , who , dissolute and unworthy priests as they were , as men showed the greatest courage , and died valiantly defending the Ark of that God , whose holy laws they had dishonored by their impious and sacrilegious lives . 
All this is very grateful to an invalid , and I do not know how better to dispose of my invigorated health and cheerful spirits than to write to you , O Belus , and continue the narrative of the events which transpired during my detention in Egypt , and which have paved the way of David , the shepherd , the hero , the poet , and great captain , to the Throne of Israel . 
The reign of Saul is the foundation of the prophetic Throne of David ; and no future events of David 's life can hardly prove more extraordinary than those of his youth , from the time of his anointing as Kingand successor to the Throne -LRB- which from that day was virtually his own -RRB- of Saul , and to the sceptre of Israel . 
Your majesty will , perhaps , believe that the Hebrew monarch , after his reconciliation with David at the cave of Engeddi , and open acknowledgment of his right to the succession on his throne , suffered the youthful , God-appointed heir to his kingdom to remain in peace . 
But you have learned enough of the fickleness of his temper , O Belus , to lead you to suspect that the first impulse of feeling rising against David from any cause , his persecuting wrath would re-awake . 
He had returned to Hebron after paying royal honors to the sacred ashes of the consecrated Prophet , and , shutting himself in his palace , he became profoundly melancholy ; a condition of his mind , which , like dark clouds rolling up the sky , and casting their shadow over earth 's sunshine , foreboded a tempest . 
`` Father , '' she said ; `` I have come to ask thee to send me to David , my husband , since thou art reconciled to him . '' 
The marriage was performed the same hour , and Phalti bore his wife to his home , saying to his mother , `` This is my sister , and keep her with thee , that David may , one day , have her . '' 
When David heard the news , he was justly indignant , and had a good cause now for quarrel with the king . 
He felt that he had thereby wronged David so that he would certainly , in his anger , come out from his fortresses and give him battle ; when he hoped to slay him on the field . 
He , therefore , went forth again at the head of his army , and approached the place in the wilderness of Ziph , where his spies told him David was fortified . 
Here , upon a plain partly covered with wood , the king pitched his camp and slightly entrenched it , hoping David would attack him on the morrow . 
From the top of the rock , David beheld the tents of Saul , his banners flying , and his whole army in battle-array . 
`` I will seek Saul 's pavilion to-night , '' he said , turning to Abishai , the brave younger brother of his chief captain Joab , and others about him . 
Under cover of the night , though aided by a new moon , David , who by daylight carefully marked with his eye the direction and path , approached the out-posts of the king 's camp . 
His guards slept , and David advanced beyond them , and stood by the side of the king , who lay fast asleep in his unharnessed chariot , before the door of his tent , the light of the young moon distinctly revealing his worn , yet still majestic features . 
His javelin was stuck in the ground at his head . 
The young warrior stood , and contemplated his face with profound emotions and sad recollections . 
he said , unconsciously speaking with himself ; `` how deeply passion has drawn its ploughshare across his kingly brow ! 
Now therefore let me smite him with his own spear , even to the earth at once ! 
said David . 
He then turned and looked for awhile at the sleeping king 's face , who started , feverish and ill at ease , and uttered his name in his disturbed sleep , but with harsh and bitter tones . 
Abner his general also slept , his head on his buckler , and his sword in his hand , not far from the chariot . 
`` Take the spear at the king 's head , and the cruse of water by his side , and let us depart , '' said David to his companion . 
Reluctantly Abishai refrained from slaying the king , and taking the spear and the cruse of water , with which the feverish king quenched his burning thirst , he followed David . 
Opposite the camp of Saul was a high hill of rock , about five bow-shots distant , to the top of which David ascended , and turning round he called , `` Abner ! 
His loud call aroused the Hebrew general from his sleep , and springing to his feet , he cried , looking all about him , `` Who , and where art thou , that criest to the king ? '' 
continued David from the hill ; `` and who is like to thee , O general , in Israel ? 
Saul also awakened , and recognizing his well-known voice , and missing his spear , and the cruse of water , and perceiving that the man he had wronged had been by his side as he slept , and refrained from taking his life , with that impulsive emotion characteristic of him , he was touched to the heart , and called out , in tones of kindness : `` Is this thy voice , my son David ? '' 
Then Saul answered and said , `` I have sinned , my son , my son David ! 
David did not make any answer to these confessions and promises , for he knew better than to put any confidence in a prince so wayward and inconstant , and who still hated him bitterly . 
he called to Abner . 
Saul sent a lad for his spear and cruse of water , and said : `` Blessed be thou , my son David ! 
David , delivering the spear to the youth who timidly came for it , turned and left the top of the mount , accompanied by Abishai , and ere midnight regained his own camp in the hill-forest . 
That the king dissembled when he spoke to him so softly David well knew , for he was not ignorant of the wickedness and weakness of Saul 's character . 
David , therefore , called a council of his friends and captains . 
There were present the valiant and fierce Joab , his general ; Uriah , his second in command ; Abishai , the brother of Joab , who was now his armor-bearer instead of Uriah ; Hushai and Ahithophel , both of whom bore arms with David , though war was not their usual pursuit ; also , Abiathar , the priest , in his sacred robes and ephod . 
At length , the counsel of Uriah prevailed , who said : `` That Achish , King of Gath , having certainly learned that David had , in good faith , and not artfully by stratagem , before sought his protection and service , had sent word to Uriah that if his master desired again to leave Judea , to escape from King Saul , he would gladly receive him and his followers in his own dominions , and entreat them with all honor , giving him a high command in his armies , and places according to their rank and ability for his men . 
`` Therefore , '' continued Uriah , `` if my lord David refuses to meet the Lord 's anointed in battle , ere Saul surrounds us with his hosts to take us in a snare , let my lord pass over with all his force unto Achish , king of Gath . '' 
David , determining to follow this counsel , a few days afterwards marched from his fastnesses , and crossing the country of Judea , came to the court of the King of the Philistines , who received him gladly , and gave him a palace near his own to dwell in , and places for his followers . 
Before David left his camp in the forest of Ziph , to pass over to Philistia , an interesting incident occurred which led to his marriage , Michal having been taken from him by her father . 
I have already alluded , your majesty , to Nabal betrothed to the lovely village maiden , Abigail , who gave David water when , the year before , a fugitive he sat thirsty and weary by the well under the palm trees . 
While David and his followers were encamped between Maon and Carmel where Nabal dwelt with his young wife , he would have lost a portion of his flocks by the incursion of a band of desert robbers , but for the assistance of David 's men , who drove them away , and gave protection to the herdsmen . 
Some weeks afterwards , David being greatly in want of provisions for his garrison , and recalling the service his people had done the rich Nabal , he sent to Nabal ten men to bring whatsoever he could spare , bidding his messengers say to him : `` Peace be both to thee , and peace be to thine house , and peace be unto all thou hast ! 
Whatsoever cometh to thine hand give unto the servants of thy son David . '' 
When the men came to Nabal , and delivered their captain 's gracious words , he roughly answered them : `` Who is David , and who is the son of Jesse ye speak of ? 
When the young men returned to David , and reported his words to him , his indignation was justly kindled at this treatment by Nabal of one who had done him service . 
he cried , buckling on his own sword ; and at the head of four hundred of his men of war , he hastened to punish Nabal for his inhospitable conduct . 
News of his march came to the ears of his young and beautiful wife , and when she knew all , -LRB- for she had not seen David 's messengers , who had met Nabal in the field , -RRB- in great alarm she secretly made haste , and took two hundred loaves of bread , two skins of wine , five dressed sheep , five measures of parched corn , a hundred clusters of raisins , and two hundred cakes of figs , and lading several beasts with them , she went forward with her servants to meet David . 
When she came near she alighted , and bowed herself to the ground , and when he raised her up , he , with surprise and pleasure , recognized the fair face of the maiden he had seen at the well . 
Eloquently she entreated him to forego his vengeance , and accept the peace-offering she had brought . 
When Nabal , on her return , was informed by her how David in fierce wrath was coming upon him , with four hundred armed men , to destroy him , and how she had averted the danger , his heart sunk within him , and struck as with lightning , he fell back paralyzed . 
Ten days afterwards he died . 
When David heard of the death of Nabal , and the days of her mourning were passed , he sent to her and asked her to become his wife ; and not long before the departure of David to pass over to the court of Achish , he married the beautiful widow of Nabal , and took her with him into the land of the Philistines . 
At the court of Achish David remained nearly a year and a half , serving him as a captain in his wars , and increasing his own fame as a warrior . 
Saul , in the meanwhile , no longer able to pursue David , disbanded his army , and remained in his palace , ill in spirit and body , and Prince Jonathan his son never left him , but , with noble , filial devotion , anticipated all his wants , and gave him his tenderest sympathy in all the darkness and bitterness under which his soul dwelt . 
Since the death of Samuel , and the flight of David , the Hebrew king had ceased to take an interest in any thing . 
Few of his people saw him , and he gave audience to no one save through his son , who strove with beautiful charity to conceal his father 's failing , and to keep the kingdom together with some show of government . 
There was no High Priest no Prophet in the land for the miserable monarch to resort to ; for Abiathar , the lawful pontiff , was with David in Philistia . 
Jonathan 's heart failed him , because he had heard that David was in the camp of Achish in high command , and he feared to fight , opposed to him ! 
The great numbers of his adversaries , however , filled the king 's soul with dismay . 
He trembled as he leaned upon his spear , and gazed down upon the thousands of the army of Achish . 
he asked of his armor-bearer , Doeg , the Edomite , who stood behind him . 
`` He is with David , '' replied Jonathan . 
And David , too , is in yonder camp ! 
It is well he hideth from my arm , under the plume of Achish and his gods ! '' 
`` Nay , my lord , '' said Ishbosheth his son , coming up the hill , in company with his brother Melchisua , drawing near the king ; `` David I hear is not with Achish . 
Achish could not prevail that he might keep David , and sent the son of Jesse back to Ziklag , his town in the land of the Philistines . '' 
He was attended by two men , Doeg and Amasa , the armor-bearer of Abner , a young man , son of David 's sister , but who held firmly to Saul 's side in the war he made against his heroic kinsman . 
The Lord hath done to thee , O King , even as he spake by me to thee ; for he hath rent the kingdom out of thine hand and is about to give it to David ! 
`` Thou art sure David is not in the ranks of Achish ? '' 
Your majesty will remember that David , after being dismissed from the camp of Achish in order to appease the jealous rivalry of his lords and captains , retired into Philistia . 
He had not reached its borders ere news came to him that Ziklag , the fortified town in the south which the King of Gath had given him as a residence for himself and his family and the families of his six hundred warriors , had been taken by the Amalekites and burned , and the women and children carried away captives . 
That Abiathar might `` enquire of God '' in due form , David erected in a few hours with four ranges of sixty spears a temporary tabernacle , enclosing it with curtains ; and also constructed an inner sanctuary supported by javelins , and covered with Tyrian tapestry and white linen . 
No sooner had Abiathar asked of his God the words , David , who stood reverently waiting in the outer tabernacle , put into his mouth to say , than a glory filled the place from the sudden splendor emitted by the Urim and Thummim , and the voice of God answered the inquiry , `` Shall I pursue this troop ? 
In this condescension of God , David was not only confirmed in his trust in God , but was assured that the Oracle and the Priesthood , which had failed the king , was with himself . 
At this crisis David beheld a man lying on the ground famished . 
He saw by his features and costume that he was an Egyptian . 
When he had commanded food and water to be given to him , and great care to be taken of him , the man was at length able to reply to David 's inquiries , and to make known the direction taken by his foes , their number , and all the circumstances of the attack upon Ziklag . 
Pursuing them by the route pointed out , David came up with them far to the south , encamped in a plain , feasting and making merry , wholly abandoned to pleasure , thinking they were safe beyond pursuit , knowing Achish to be in the far north fighting with Saul . 
Ere they could seize their arms , and put on their armor , David and his little band were upon them ! 
Abigail , David 's beautiful wife , Nabal 's widow , was restored to him , and also a second wife he had brought with him to Ziklag ; for , though it is not the custom of the Hebrews to have more than one wife , yet it is not regarded as an infringement of the divine law . 
It was , doubtless , this policy which led David to take two wives , as the other belongs to one of the most warlike and opulent families of the land ! 
David in the meanwhile was filled with anxiety to learn the result of the battle on the plains about Mount Gilboa , between Saul and the King of the Philistines . 
When he came near David , he did obeisance before him , as to a king . 
demanded David anxiously , fearing the answer would convey some ill news to him . 
demanded David quickly . 
asked David , doubting , yet fearing the response . 
When David heard these words , and beheld the crown and the bracelet , and recognized them to be King Saul 's , he knew that Saul was dead ; and when he inquired more closely , he was assured that his noble friend , the brave and generous Prince Jonathan , was also fallen in the fight . 
at length sternly demanded David . 
Come hither , '' he called to the captain of his body-guard ; `` draw thy sword and hew this Amalekite in pieces ! 
Uriah , the captain of the guard , without hesitation , lifted his sword , and smote the sacrilegious and boasting Amalekite to the earth ; who , hoping to ingratiate himself with David , whom he doubtless heard that rumor had asserted would succeed Saul , had invented the lie for which he was justly rewarded with death . 
This Amalekite was even the son of Doeg , by an Amalekite wife ; and had been told by his wily father , if the king fell , to hasten with the crown to David in Ziklag , as he was to be king . 
Little did the unhappy Amalekite understand the true character of David . 
Instead of beholding his face brighten with joy at the news of Saul 's death ; instead of seeing him seize the golden crown , and vainly put it upon his head ; instead of being rewarded with a purse of gold , a rich robe , and given a place of honor , lo ! 
weeping took the place of rejoicing , in the generous and unselfish David ; the crown lay untouched at his feet ; and he was rewarded with an ignominious death for touching with his hand a consecrated king . 
How beautiful , your majesty , is this character so admirably developed by David , at a moment which would test all men , and show what was in them ! 
Here were no ambitious hopes awakened , no unfit joy manifested at the death of his persecutor and enemy ! 
All the wrongs he had suffered from the man , were buried in oblivion , as he thought upon the humiliating end of the consecrated king!The mighty Saul to be slain by a base Amalekite ! 
said David , sorrowfully . 
he added , as he took the silver bracelet in his hand , in which was framed a band of inscribed parchment ; `` here is the poor king 's phylactery which , of late years , he has worn bound upon his wrist . '' 
`` This language is an offence unto me , Ahithophel , '' said David . 
The next day , David called a solemn fast for the death of King Saul , and when the people were assembled together , and had paid due honors to the king 's memory , he took his harp before them and struck it to the chords of lamentation for Prince Jonathan in the following hymn : This last refrain , taken up by the warriors and the women , was heard like the waves of the sea lifting up their voices to the wailing of the winds . 
The days of lamentation for Saul and Jonathan being ended , David , although he knew that it was ordained that he should be king in Saul 's stead , would take no steps without humbly consulting the Oracle of his God ; thus evincing that modesty , prudence , and piety which are marked features in his noble nature . 
David , therefore , prepared at once to go eastward into the land of Israel , before the return of the conqueror Achish should place any barrier to his departure . 
Thirty days after the entrance of David into Hebron , the citizens of which had received him with great joy , -LRB- for he had been well known to them when he dwelt there with Saul , -RRB- he was consecrated and crowned king of Judah , with ceremonies more august and imposing than ever had been witnessed in the land . 
Before the man could reply , a warder , upon a turret above the gate , catching clearly the words which were shouted across the valley , cried aloud to Abner , `` David is crowned ! 
These all accepted and hailed the prince as their king ; and when the ambassadors of David came among them a few days afterwards to give in their allegiance to him , they imprisoned or drove them from their cities , refusing allegiance to any save to the son of Saul ; a devotion which had its origin many years previous , when these people east of Jordan being conquered by Ammonites , and Moabites , and others , were promptly delivered from the hands of their enemies by the prowess of King Saul . 
Perhaps he was ignorant of David 's divine claim to the crown , and regarded him as a daring usurper , and his natural enemy . 
When David heard that Saul 's son had been proclaimed King over Israel , he manifested no anger . 
What were David 's , which should acquit him of the charge proclaimed against him from Beersheba in the south , to Dan in the north , of usurping Saul 's kingdom ? 
David therefore did not hasten to commence hostilities , but waited to see how God would order affairs . 
He now sent for Joab , his general , who , under such a soldier and warrior as David had at length become , had acquired a fierce and sanguinary character ; or more truly , numerous wars had developed a temper naturally harsh and haughty , into a fierce , almost relentless disposition . 
`` Then by the sword of Gideon , O King David , '' cried Joab in a voice that growled like a lion 's , when he hears the elephant trumpeting afar off , `` I will shorten him by the head ere two days more are gone ! '' 
Abner heard all the words of the stern Joab , which David sent to him , and answered graciously , saying `` he would refer the matter to the King of Israel . '' 
demanded Joab , with high anger in his voice . 
answered Abner , with his usual stately courtesy . 
`` Now , as the Lord liveth , '' cried Joab , striking his iron sword-handle till it rung again , his nostrils dilating like those of a war-charger , `` I know no King of Israel , but my lord David of Hebron ! 
The twelve Benjamites attempted by their fearful left-handed strokes to take the men of Judah unawares , but these twelve men , selected by Joab , had been trained in the army of David also to fight with the left hand , and parrying the blows caught their adversaries by the beard and hair , and run them through the body , the Benjamites at the same time transfixing each man his antagonist . 
Then , returning to Hebron , he reported to the king the issue of the expedition , from which David perceived that he could only obtain the kingdom by an intestine war . 
Three months ago , when I reached here from Egypt , David had but recently been crowned , and the subsequent events rapidly followed in the order in which I have given them . 
Upon my arrival by the caravan from the land of the Nile , and , coming to Hebron , I found that Jonathan 's friend held the sceptre ; being too ill to leave the camp outside of the walls , I sent to King David a message of congratulation on his accession to the throne . 
As I was informed from this veteran captain , that he was the maternal uncle of your armor-bearer Ninus , I gave credence to his story , and reluctantly returned by the first opportunity to Damascus , when three weeks ago we arrived in Judea to hear of King Saul 's death , and the wise and brave David , the friend of God , on the throne . 
One after another the Hebrew tribes on this side Jordan are giving in their adhesion to his royal sceptre ; for , to the people at large the title of David , the son of Jesse , to reign over them is of the same value -LRB- in that it is from the same high Source of all authority and power , their God himself -RRB- of that by which Saul , the son of Kish , became their king ! 
Upon presenting myself at the palace , he said : -- `` My dear prince , I trust our long and frequent intercourse has made us friends . 
But when I pledged to the Hebrew monarch the assistance of an Assyrian army , your majesty , if Egypt invaded his borders , and sent to Pharaoh word that a war with King David involved a war with the powerful King Belus , the haughty Egyptian withdrew his insolent demand . 
Since then , King David has withholden nothing from me , but consults me in all his affairs . 
The life of David is full of care ! 
Before our door , across the valley , tower the walls of Jerusalem , the battlements of the fortress of David , late that of the Jebusites , and the warlike outline of the whole of the city where , of old , Melchisedek , the descendant of the gods , reigned cotemporary with Abraham . 
My heart still beats as loyal to thee as ever , my beloved master and king ; and I trust you will yet bear testimony that I can be faithful to the God of David , without failing in loyalty to Belus . 
He declined to take the field , so that he could indulge , unmolested by David , in inglorious ease in his palace , surrounded by sycophants and flatterers . 
All the while , the most warlike of his adherents were calling upon him to march against Hebron , and take from him the throne of his father Saul . 
Disappointed by his indifference , many of the best warriors in his camp went over to Joab , and tendered him their allegiance and swords for King David . 
With these Abner laid waste parts of the country which had submitted to David , but Joab marching against him , caused him again to retire beyond the river . 
`` Wilt thou accept his offer of alliance , and the eighty thousand men he offers us to go up against David , and stablish thee on the throne of thy father at Hebron ? '' 
-- me who have maintained thee on thy throne , and showed kindness to all thy father 's house , and made myself strong for thee and thy crown , and have not delivered thee , as I have had the power to do , into the hands of David ? 
And may God , who once swore to David to translate the kingdom from the House of Saul , and to set up the throne of David over all Israel , and over Judah , do unto me as he hath done unto Saul and his three sons , if I do not henceforth give my help to carry out this oath of God towards David , and presently bring all Israel away from thee unto him ! 
The first intelligence King David had of the matter was the sudden appearance of a courier from Abner before the gate of Hebron , for Abner , having made the breach irreparable between him and Ishbosheth , was too prudent a diplomatist to delay the execution of his threat for the prince with Abner 's envious enemies might combine for his immediate destruction . 
Instead , however , of going himself to David , he kept at home in his own palace , well armed and watchful , while he sent to him a messenger . 
When David heard that a courier , with the banner of Saul 's House on his spear , asked an audience , he sent for him to appear before him . 
`` From beyond Jordan , and from Abner the head of the armies of Israel , '' answered the man ; and with the word he delivered a sealed and tied roll into the hands of King David 's cup-bearer , who bore it to his royal master upon his silver tray . 
The king , quickly breaking the seal and cutting the silken thread , unrolled the parchment , and read as follows : To David , King of Judah at Hebron ; Abner , son of Ner , Counselor and General of the House of Saul : Greeting . 
`` That God hath sworn to thee to take the kingdom from Saul , and set up the throne of David therein , thy servant knoweth , and so doth all Israel . 
He at once replied , as follows : -- `` David , king by the grace and order of God , sendeth these to Abner , son of Ner : `` The king granteth the league . 
In addition to this reply to Abner , King David sent a courier with a letter to that prince , demanding his wife , whom Saul in the first year of her marriage had divorced from David and given to Phalti of Laish , the just and virtuous man I have before named . 
This Phalti , upon receiving her , had committed her to the charge of his mother , as if she were his sister ; for being a friend of David , he resolved at some future day to restore her to him in purity and honor . 
The letter to Ishbosheth , whom David well knew , having long dwelt in the palace of Saul with him , as well as married his sister , ran thus : -- KING DAVID TO PRINCE ISHBOSHETH . 
When Abner received David , the King of Judah 's , reply , he went to Ishbosheth with fair words , for the prince , finding he had not departed from the city to David , following the sensible advice of Rizpa , made friends with him , by acknowledging to him the injustice of his angry suspicions ; for if Abner remained his enemy , on whom could he lean ? 
Taking advantage of this truce , Abner waited upon him , after he knew David 's messenger had delivered his letter to him , without appearing to know that such a courier or letter had come to Mahanaim . 
As he expected , he found Ishbosheth in a tornado of passion , cursing David by Urim and Thummim , by Altar and Cherubim , and making oath that he would slay his sister with his own hand rather than give her back to the son of Jesse ! 
Abner waited until this storm had subsided , and then urged him to obey the king by persuasions backed by representations of David 's power , and his certain vengeance if this , his first and most beloved wife , should be refused him . 
The mother of Phalti loved her as a daughter , for the amiable and faithful princess had been as such to her ; while Phalti loved her both as a sister and as a daughter , and while he felt the justice of David 's claim , he could not but go with her a long ways , mourning with deep grief her departure from his roof . 
That David should still retain the warmth of his youthful love , after such scenes of war , and persecution of sorrow and trials , lamenting her as dead , reflects upon him the highest honor , and is singularly creditable to the tenderness and devotion of his heart ! 
But there is a sacredness in love which can convert mere curiosity into a sort of sacrilege , and I will not describe the beautiful and touching emotion , each exhibited at their reunion ; for both were still young , King David being but thirty , and his recovered wife five years younger ! 
From that moment I loved him even more than before I had esteemed him . 
But how shall I describe to your majesty the interview of David with his ancient friend , Abner , who had restored to him the wife of his youth ! 
Especially did David inquire about Saul and Jonathan 's death , and hung on each particular ; and tears came into his eyes , even seven years after he fell on the hard-foughten field of Gilboa . 
David , a brave and skillful soldier himself , respected Abner . 
He knew the honest purpose of his heart , and the singleness of his character . 
He honored him for his devotion to the House of Saul , for it became him as a faithful servant of that unhappy monarch , to stand up for his house and the glory of his name , and the royal inheritance of his son . 
David loved him not less , but rather honored him the more for his generous devotion to Ishbosheth and his fortunes ; both so unworthy of him . 
When King David had done discoursing with the valiant warrior and statesman of Israel , he sent for his score men-at-arms , and had them well cared for and feasted ; and placed Abner at his own table , in the presence of his lords , governors , captains , and chief officers , giving him the place of honor next to his right hand , and sending him a portion five times greater than to all others . 
If he had been Saul 's son instead of being his uncle , and so been heir to the throne , King David would have sat , for the last seven years , more in his war-saddle than on his throne , slept oftener in his pavilion on the field than upon his couch in the palace . 
King David dismissed Abner at his palace gate with an embrace of friendship . 
It was remarked by the officers of the court , that he had never shown such affectionate regard for Joab his own general . 
Of him once said the King of Moab , where David 's parents found shelter , and who fought against Abner and Ishbosheth for David 's sake , `` I love the son of Ner above all men , and though he be my enemy , I would give the revenue of half my kingdom to have him my friend and commander of my armies . '' 
A thorough soldier he was , an invaluable commander of the armies of King David ; but there was no soul to be found underneath his corslet and brazen cuirass . 
Abner 's smile would have won the most timid child to his knee ; the frown of Joab would have sent it in terror to its mother 's side . 
Therefore David embraced Abner his foe , but never embraced Joab his friend ! 
Whether the busy tongue of malice poisoned Joab 's ear thereupon , I know not , leading him to the step which followed ; but Abner had not been an hour departed with a safe conduct from the king , on his return to the other side Jordan , when Joab and his younger brother Abishai entered the gate from a successful onslaught against an invading band of Idumeans from the south . 
`` He came in peace , '' answered David firmly . 
The messengers overtook Abner at the well of Sirah , where ten years before David had sat down and drank water from the pitcher of the virgin Abigail , the betrothed of Nabal , and now the king 's wife , and ate figs from the little basket of Bathsheba , now since become the wife of his great captain Uriah . 
The brave warrior , without a word , so suddenly was he smitten to the death , fell over upon his face and died , a victim to the basest treachery , and a sacrifice also , perhaps , to the jealous fears of the assassin ; for Joab suspected that if David pardoned and took the noble Abner into favor , he would , ere long , from his superior age and experience in war and military rule , take the highest place in the army of David , and displace himself . 
When King David heard the tidings , he was greatly overcome , and , at length , said , in a voice trembling with indignation and mortification , `` As the Lord liveth , let all men hear and know that I , and my house , and my kingdom are guiltless of the blood of Abner . 
Two men , animated by the same selfish motives which governed the Amalekite who brought Saul 's crown to David , hastened to find the prince , in order to put him to death , and be the first bearers of the tidings , that he `` was no more , '' to King David . 
David remembered his oath to Jonathan that he would not only do good to his father 's family , when he should become king , but that he himself and his seed after him should be held dear to him . 
Your majesty will recollect this oath which Jonathan caused David to take when they parted under the walls of Hebron , at the time David fled from Saul ; for the prince , knowing that it was the custom of new dynasties to put to death all the members of the former royal family , feared that David , perhaps , in the flush of power , and influenced by evil counselors , might put to death all his father 's house . 
In remembrance of his oath , King David sent a messenger to Mahanaim , to inquire if any were left of the family of Saul that `` he might show them a kindness for Jonathan 's sake , '' for he had married the beautiful daughter of the lord of Bethel , and David had heard that a son was born to him ; and to know if this child were alive and where it dwelt , he now sent away his servants . 
It is a beautiful trait in his character , that , amid the absorbing duties which now pressed upon him at this crisis , he should have given a moment 's thought to this little child . 
But he is a man who religiously performs all duties , equally the least with the greatest . 
In the meanwhile , the men of Israel from beyond Jordan , and of all the remoter tribes , hastened to send in their submission to him at Hebron , bringing him gifts of gold , silver , jewels , fine linen , corn , wine , and oil , so that David was soon thereby made very rich . 
On a fixed day , surrounded by his guards , his lords , and captains , the national senate and civic elders being present , with the High Priest and a train of Levites , David , seated upon the throne of Saul , received the ambassadors from all the tribes , provinces , cities , towns , and citadels , and accepted their allegiance , and took their oaths of submission and loyalty in the presence of the High Priest Abiathar . 
Kneeling before the vicegerent of the Lord , David was solemnly anointed by Him with holy oil poured from the golden cup upon his head , the rich ointment flowing over his locks and down his beard , and even dripping upon his robes , and filling all the throne-room with its rich perfume . 
Hail , David , the anointed king ! 
Thus , three several times had David been consecrated : the first time , as the youthful shepherd of Bethlehem by Samuel the Seer ; the second time , by the High Priest as King of Judah , soon after Saul 's death ; and now the third time , as King of Judah and of Israel , sole monarch of all the Hebrew people . 
Absolute now in his dominions , King David prepared to consolidate his throne , and firmly establish his authority . 
When the king 's messenger brought back this insolent answer to him , he forthwith called Joab , his general , and commanded him to take Uriah , the captain of `` a thousand , '' and lay siege to the fortress of Jebus , and destroy all within ; `` especially , '' he said , `` fling over the battlements their gods that see not and walk not , for as the Lord liveth , the blind and lame of David shall destroy the blind and lame gods , in whom these idolators and enemies of the true God trust . '' 
The third day came David the king to look on , and , seeing how high the walls were , and how difficult of access , he cried to all the army and said , `` Whosoever shall first mount the walls shall be chief in command over all my armies both of Israel and of Judah ! '' 
In the meanwhile , King David kept the garrison employed , and their attention fixed upon himself and his soldiers , by making feint of an attack at another part of the wall . 
The boldness of the man , and his unexpected appearance behind them , with the terror of his voice , which they all knew , for they had often seen the terrible warrior pass and repass with his armies , inspired them with fear ; and as he was soon joined by others , they were filled with the greatest consternation . 
Before the sun went down , the whole citadel was in the hands of David , its gods cast over the battlements , and upon them Joab affixed the royal standard of the `` Lion of the Tribe of Judah . '' 
But , your majesty may ask why David , a man so just , and virtuous , and prudent , should break the oath of Abraham , so long held sacred , and which time had consecrated ? 
He answered me as follows : `` This act of David does not imply a want of reverence for Abraham and his oath . 
In David commences a new era of things . 
In David terminates all that belongs to the first great Abrahamic period of a thousand years . 
The traditions and power of Abraham die in the inauguration of the Throne of David , who is to be the founder of a new dynasty . 
David does not destroy Abraham and the promises in him ; but gives them new directions through himself and his posterities . 
He is to be to the FUTURE , what Abraham has been to the PAST . 
As the Hebrews of to-day call themselves the seed of Abraham , the true Israelites of the future shall call themselves the sons of David ; and the title of their king shall be the Prince of the House of David , ordained such in the mystery of God before Abraham was ! 
King David therefore has not broken the oath of Abraham ; for Abraham 's power and the limit of his oath were only until David should annul it . 
The royal Abraham saw David 's day , and bequeathed him , and his house , his sceptre . 
Adam , Noah , Abraham , Moses , David , each of these are founders of new things , beginnings of new creations , heads of eras , each advance elevating our race , and bringing us nearer and nearer to the splendid era of Him , of whom the patriarchs all have spoken , as the last wielder of the sceptre of David , and occupant of his throne ; the Shiloh whom Adam walked with in Eden ; Abraham saw in his tent in Mamre ; Jacob wrestled with for a blessing ; Moses spoke with in Horeb ; Joshua met at the fountain before Jericho ; who was in the Pillar , and in the Cloud , and whose visible glory dwells in the Shechinah between the Cherubim ; Himthe express image of God , the out-going of His Presence , the Son of His right hand , who in the fullness of time shall be born to David 's line ; as to his nature , human , as to his person , divine and immortal ; an incarnation in the flesh and blood of a virgin of the House of David , by the mysterious union therewith of the invisible power and Godhead ; a wonderful , glorious , divine man from heaven , invested with godlike power , whose throne shall be set in Jerusalem , and whose dominion shall fill the whole earth ! '' 
Such , your majesty , is the sublime character of David , according to the information of the High Priest , who is supposed to read the future by his near presence to the ear and voice of the Oracle of God . 
Upon pressing Abiathar closely , he expressed his opinion that , as a thousand years had elapsed from Abraham to David , a similar period will elapse from David to this celestial and powerful Prince of his royal House . 
Will the Prince of the House of David , when he cometh , find the earth so wicked that he will re-ascend ; or will he reform it by his power and wisdom , and make it worthy of his throne ? 
I will now return to King David , who seems to understand that he is chosen by Heaven for some mighty purpose , in carrying out the mysterious history of his people . 
Having subdued the citadel , he proceeded to enlarge and improve it , and when he had made the noble edifice on the Mount Zion a suitable royal residence , he publicly proclaimed it as the seat and throne of his kingdom , and gave to it the name of `` The City of David on Mount Zion . '' 
David received the presents , and entered into the league of mutual assistance in war , and sent to the Tyrian king word that he desired presently to build a royal palace , and that he would gladly have him send to him skillful builders and workmen , as the artificers of Tyre were famed in all the world . 
King David soon afterwards commenced in Jerusalem a palace unrivaled for splendor , surrounded himself with a magnificent court , increased his army , and put in defence all the cities and fortresses of his kingdom . 
The brave Joab is placed at the head of its strong garrison , and lives in a superb palace , with a military court about him like a prince . 
Of this prosperity the Philistines became jealous , and fearing the too great power of David , they secretly raised an army , and marched against Jerusalem , intercepting and destroying the trains of wagons laden with Tyrian cedar from Joppa , on the way to the city . 
David , trusting only in heaven , never alone in his own courage and numbers , would not attack them without God 's permission , which he asked for through the ephod , and by the High Priest . 
These perpetual foes of Israel were defeated , even before David 's hosts under Joab came up with them : for an army of angels in the air swept above a forest of mulberry trees , in the rear of the Philistines , with a noise like the swift advance through the wood of a great army upon them , of chariots and horses , footmen and archers ! 
This final blow against this formidable power has secured to King David peace in all his realm . 
His palace is now completed , and the court of David has become settled , and in all its appointments is finished with a magnificence , equal to that of Tyre or of Syria . 
His throne surpasses that in Egypt of the Pharaohs ; his body-guards are clad in steel armor inlaid with gold ; his palace officers are numerous and richly attired ; and all the luxury and splendor of an ancient court appertains to this of Jerusalem . 
In this devout act , how eminent is the proof of David 's piety ! 
referring all his glory and power to God , and resolving thus publicly to honor Him as the Giver of all things which were in his possession . 
I therefore placed it reverently on this car , to take it to the city of David . '' 
David , as it moved on , giving his sword to his armor-bearer , took a golden harp from his servant , and struck a noble hymn to his God , accompanied by a choir of priests , who played merrily upon harps , psalteries , cymbals , cornets , dulcimers , timbrels , and all manner of instruments of music . 
David stood in silence , gazing upon the dead man . 
David then appointed a guard of Levites to keep watch over it night and day until he should know from the Lord what he ought to do with this House of His Majesty . 
This unhappy event greatly depressed David , and humbled him before the Lord , so that for many days he fasted and withdrew himself from all public affairs . 
David and his court followed , with all his great officers , but no armed hosts were with him . 
A choir of sacred choristers , consisting only of sons of Levi , who played on all manner of instruments , accompanied David , also his own harp-bearer . 
The king himself wore an ephod , and laid aside all his armor ; for he wished it to appear altogether a religious and peaceful ceremony , at which he was about to preside in honor of God . 
When David and the company of priests , with the High Priest Abiathar , and the Chief Priest Zadok , came before the house of Obededom , the singers and players upon psalteries , cymbals of brass , harps , and trumpets , at the command of David , played a solemn hymn to God . 
When he saw them march seven steps , he commanded them to stop . 
The last and seventh rest , and sacrifice , was made at a place outside of the city , where the Levites rested the Ark , previous to the march into the city of David . 
When the Ark passed into the gate of the city of David , a resplendent light illumined the Mercy-seat , and to the songs of the priests there were heard angelic voices in the heavens , as if the sons of God on high rejoiced with the sons of men below , in the presence of the Lord , coming to dwell within the city of the king of his people . 
In this religious dance , if so majestic a movement may be termed such , and which one of the wives of David witnessed from the palace and ridiculed , the king and the priests participated until they came before the Tabernacle . 
Sacrifices were again solemnly offered , and thus the inauguration of the Ark of the Covenant in the Tabernacle of David on Mount Zion was finished . 
`` Go and tell him David desires to see him , that he may show kindness to him for his noble father 's sake , and also for Saul his grandfather ! '' 
When the man of God appeared before the king , David met him with that friendly regard he has ever had for him since he was with him in the School of the Prophets , where your majesty will recollect Nathan was one of the teachers of David , though not many years his senior . 
doubtless , led him to assent , without that reflection and consultation with his God which became a prophet . 
Last night , in the vision of the night , lo , the Lord appeared unto me , and said : `` Go and tell my servant David , Thus saith the Lord , Shalt thou build me a house for me to dwell in ? 
Now , therefore , so shalt thou say unto my servant David , Thus saith the Lord of hosts , I took thee from the sheep-cote , from following the sheep , to be ruler over my people , over Israel . 
`` The Lord is righteous in all that He commandeth , '' answered David . 
Soon after the departure of his friend , the prophet , the king left his palace and went to the Tabernacle of God , and kneeling humbly before the altar of incense in the Holy Place with his face towards the Vail which hid the glory of the Lord over the Ark of the Covenant , prayed and said after this manner : `` Who am I , O Lord God ? 
And let thy name be magnified forever , saying , The Lord of hosts is the God over Israel : and let the house of thy servant David be established before thee . 
It is the intention of King David to take the field in person , and beard the Philistine lion in his own den at Gath . 
I regret here to inform thee , O Belus , that the beautiful Michal , the daughter of Saul , has been disgraced by David , who has refused again to recognize her as his queen , and has elevated the stately Abigail to that distinction . 
The cause of the displeasure of the king her husband was as follows : On the day when the Ark was borne into the city of David , and the monarch danced with solemn and measured step before it , playing upon his harp , according to a form of religious worship , common even with us in Assyria , Michal from her palace window mocked him and laughed aloud , as if he shamed his kingly rank , by exchanging the royal apparel of a king , for the white linen ephod of a priest . 
From that day David has not entered the presence of the perverse and jealous woman , who publicly sought to bring upon him ridicule , while in the accustomed worship of his God . 
The widow of Nabal is now , therefore , the first in rank in the palace as queen , and being scarcely less beautiful than when David married her among the mountains of Carmel , and possessing amiability and grace of manners , she is a great favorite with the court and people , which Michal , Saul 's daughter , has never been . 
I saw him when he came into the Hall of Justice , where David sat , having just closed for the day the administration of the cases brought before him . 
The expression of his white and wilted face was a singular compound of scorn and deference , hatred and fear , as if he respected the power of David , and yet felt that he sat on a throne which was justly his own birthright . 
The arrogance of a dethroned prince before his successor , with the humility of a dependent , struggled also in his voice , as he answered the king , who said , kindly , and drawing near to him , `` Is this Mephibosheth , son of Jonathan ? '' 
Treachery plainly lurks in his covert glances at David , who , honest in purpose and knowing he ought to have his gratitude , doubts not but that he has it , and entreats him with an ingenuous confidence from which all mistrust is absent . 
One after another their towns fell into the hands of David , their idol temples were overthrown by his soldiers , and their fields laid waste . 
David encircled the city with his hosts , and took it with vast slaughter . 
The night of the conquest thereof David reposed -LRB- how singular the reversion of fortunes , your majesty ! -RRB- 
in the palace of the deceased Achish , whose tomb he the next day visited , commanding it to be respected by his soldiers ; for once he had received from Achish , shelter and favors in his exile ; and David is one of that heroic and generous class of men who never forget a personal kindness . 
Gaza and all the ports of Philistia soon fell into his power , and he extended , thereby , the borders of his kingdom even to the shores of the Great Sea . 
Having laid tribute upon the King of Philistia , Itta the son of Achish , whom he had taken prisoner , and received his homage as his servant , and having garrisoned the sea ports , and especially Gath , the key of the subdued kingdom , David returned with his armies to Jerusalem , having in three months brought to his feet a dominion nearly as large as his own , and which had been the terror of Israel since the days of Joshua . 
But he had no sooner reached his capital than he found a new war upon his hands . 
The powerful King of Edom , a descendant of the royal House of Esau the elder brother of Jacob , and whose dominions lay south of the province of Judah around Mount Hor , even stretching beyond the sea of Sodoma -- this king , who inherited hatred of the descendants of Jacob and his twelve sons , taking advantage of David 's absence in Philistia , invaded Judah and menaced Hebron . 
Without delay and by forced marches , King David went against him , defeated the king in battle , and also the King of Moab , who assisted him , and taking their capital city , brought both Moab and Edom into subjection to his sceptre , making them tributary to his crown . 
Moreover , your majesty , this usurper of the throne of Hadadezer , hath heard that the true princess of his stolen sceptre is in Judea , at the court of David . 
It is impossible for me to remain behind , when King David , partly on account of Adora 's claim , advances to meet him ! 
Although both Adora and myself have long ago made up our minds to be contented to dwell near the court of David , in our happy villa on the side of the Mount of Olives ; yet I will not deny that the possibility of ascending the throne of her fathers has aroused in the bosom of my wife pleasing and new-born hopes , which have kindled into warmth my own dormant ambition . 
The following year , a son of one of the kings of Ammon in the East , whose father had shown him friendship on his march to Tadmor , having ascended the throne of the Ammonites , King David kindly sent ambassadors to congratulate him . 
David was not a monarch to bear with equanimity an outrage so great as this . 
He sent Joab with an army , and , defeating their insolent young king , reduced him to the level of a tributary prince . 
The Syrians now secretly raised an army to drive out the Hebrews from their dominions , and David , hearing that a great host of foot , chariots , and horsemen were assembled to overturn his power , took the field in person , conquered them , and made many thousand prisoners , besides capturing seven thousand chariots ; while thousands of horses taken by him , he commanded to be put to death according to the law of Moses , which law was ordained to prevent the Hebrews from engaging in foreign wars , that they might become a domestic and defensive power . 
King David had , in his army of the East , a battalion of chariots and four legions of horse of six thousand men each ; but this was a temporary setting aside of the law by him in order to meet upon an equality foes similarly organized and mounted . 
Returned from his second war against the Syrians , the soldier-king now gave his attention to the cultivation of the arts of peace . 
Unexampled prosperity reigned throughout his wide dominions , and his court was distinguished for its splendor and dignity . 
All eminent men sought Jerusalem ; and here were founded schools , and seats of learning , and academies of science ; and from every land , men who were the most famous in their own country in any art , flocked to the Court of David . 
Thus his capital became the centre of all that gives glory to a monarch , or illustrates the genius of the age . 
From farther Ind , from Tarshish in Ceylona of the East , from Ophir , the land of gold , and the isles of the sea , from Grecia , and Etruria , and Cyprus , and Iberia , came philosophers , poets , historians , astrologers , magicians , and painters on wood and papyrus , and workers in gold and silver , and polishers of precious stones , and artificers of all sorts to sit under the shadow of the throne of David , and share the bountiful rewards which he bestowed on all who conferred glory upon his empire . 
His wisdom , prowess , wealth , and commanding personal influence had placed his kingdom in the foremost rank among the nations of the earth . 
First of monarchs of the earth , all other kings did him willing reverence and eagerly sought his alliance . 
Embassies from the uttermost parts of the earth , which were a year on their way , presented themselves at his court , bringing gifts and letters of respectful homage . 
His wealth was unbounded , so that it was said , `` Gold in Jerusalem is as plenty as iron in Syria . '' 
The heart of David was wholly changed ; and though he chanted magnificent hymns to God on festal days before the people , it was from his passion for psaltery and singing , and not from piety . 
The Spirit of God departed from Saul for disobedience ; but the Spirit of the Lord was drivenfrom the heart of David by pleasure.His palace became a paradise of luxury and delights . 
Singing men and singing women played and danced before him : and he introduced into his house forbidden entertainments from the dissolute courts of the pagan kings . 
Beautiful slaves ministered to the intoxication of his senses , and all the arts of refinement of pleasure were sought for and introduced before him , to enhance the luxuries of his hours . 
At length , one morning , there arrived at the court of David a foreign-looking young man with a noble air and in fine apparel , and with those large Oriental eyes which betray the inhabitant of the East . 
They were from the city of Tadmor , and the young man proved to be a prince , the youngest of three sons of Arbaces and Adora ; and who had been sent by them to pass a few years at the court of David , to learn the art of arms and of letters under so great a captain and wise a monarch . 
The reader is referred , for the further progress of the narrative of the reign of David , to the correspondence of Prince Hadad with his mother , Adora , Queen of Tadmor . 
At length we came in sight of the city of David , which , partly palace and partly fortress , towers loftily above Jerusalem , and is visible far and wide . 
Our entrance into the city attracted no little attention ; although the numerous embassies from all lands , which visit the court of David , have made the dress and aspect of foreigners familiar to the eyes of the Hebrews . 
In his crimson robe of office , his gold embroidered vesture , his coroneted cap , and gold-headed wand of office , together with the singular dignity of his person , he looks like a king himself ; and it is said that David yields much to his counsel , and commits the chief weight of government into his hand . 
Lions plated with gold stand on each side of the entrance , while all along the walls to the throne itself , stand lesser thrones for kings , princes , and ambassadors , over which are displayed the shields of gold David took from the Syrian King . 
I am , next week , to enter into the military school of the Citadel of David to learn the art of war ; since , as a younger son , I can not look to the throne of my father , I can , at least , hope to serve my country , by and by , as a leader of its armies . 
Say to my dear father , that many gray-haired officers of the court of David have inquired after his health ; and that many of them honor me with notice for his sake ; especially Joab , at whose house in Bethlehem my father stayed , I believe , two months after his return from Egypt . 
Even the king , whose soldierly tastes , amid all the luxury which environs him , are not yet dormant , often enters the military castle , that which is called the `` Citadel of David , '' where three hundred of the noblest Hebrew youths , as well as the king 's own sons , learn the tactics and strategy of war , and the use of arms . 
Is she not the same whom David saw at the Well of Palms , and of whom Uriah learned the way he took ? 
The deposed Princess Michal , Saul 's daughter , I ought , before this , to have informed you , died , ere I came to Jerusalem , in the house of the sons of Kish , at Bethel , whither she retired after David put her away . 
The king , instead of rebuking his son , reproyed the Ammonite Prince for taking offence where none could have been given ; for David can believe no evil thing of the youth ; and he who carries a report to him against him will be the only one believed to be guilty . 
The angry Ammonite hid his indignant feelings at the time , and , with fair outside , a day or two afterwards , took leave of the king . 
No sooner did David hear that the King of Syria had joined him , and that they showed front of war , than he despatched Joab with an army against him . 
Uriah , the king 's chief captain , had also joined the army under Joab ; for David had not spared even his own body-guard in order to visit the rebels with instant chastisement . 
The next morning King David having inquired and learned that his victim had not gone down to his house , but slept , instead , in his room in the guard-tower , he sent for him and said to him sternly and yet coloring with apprehension , lest the husband suspected the truth and his motive : `` Why didst thou not go down unto thine house , and gladden thy wife with thy safety and presence , and all thy house ? '' 
David was foiled in this additional wrong , by which he fain would have covered up the original injury ; for one act of guilt begets others , and deprives men of their understanding and ordinary judgment . 
A man less noble than Uriah would have suspected , under these circumstances , evil in a letter from David to Joab , and would have hesitated to deliver it without first knowing its contents ; but he honorably executed his trust . 
When Joab received the letter he opened it and read as follows : -- `` Set ye Uriah in the fore-front of the hottest bat tle , and retire ye from him , that he may be smitten and die . '' 
When , therefore , the Ammonites , seeing but few soldiers assaulting the gate , sallied forth to attack them , while others shot from the walls , killing several of David 's men , the rest fled , leaving the brave Uriah standing alone . 
Who , that recalls the hour when he overtook the fugitive David , lending to him his horse , and joining his fortunes , could have believed such would have been his end ? 
If such a man as David could return evil for good , who can be called wise and virtuous ? 
The same evening , Joab , who was deeply moved at the death of one who had , for twenty-five years , been his fellow-soldier , and long his armor-bearer , called a messenger , and said to him : `` Mount a swift horse , and ride to Jerusalem , and when thou comest before the king , give him an account of all the events of the assault ; and , I charge thee , when thou hast made an end of telling of all the things I command thee concerning the war , and of the discomfiture of the Hebrews , and the death of many of the king 's soldiers , and , lo ! 
When , at length , the courier from the Hebrew camp stood before David , the king , hearing from him of the disaster and loss of his soldiers , became displeased , but the words of the messenger , `` Uriah the Hittite is dead also ! '' 
After the seven days of mourning for her husband were passed , according to law , David hastened to bring Bathsheba to his palace and make her his wife , which he did do in the presence of his whole court with great pomp . 
The Prophet Nathan was asleep upon his bed in the closet above the gate at Ramah in the Palace of the Judges , when he had a vision from the Lord , in which the fourfold guilt of David was made known to him , and he was commanded to arise and go to Jerusalem and stand before the king , and rebuke him . 
David at that hour sat upon his Judgment Seat in the great Hall , and all his officers , and lords , and elders of his court , and of the city were before him . 
David partly rose , and bowed reverently before the Prophet of the Highest , and reseating himself said , `` Wherefore comest thou , O Nathan , whom the king delighteth to honor ! '' 
David , after a moment 's agitation , descended from his throne and stood humbly and penitently before the Prophet of the Most High God . 
Nathan , who had known David from his youth , and been with him in the School of the Prophets , was himself not unmoved , and his voice was uneven when he replied , `` The Lord hath put away thy sin in that thou dost humbly confess thy guilt . 
David , having put an end to the war , was crowned king of Ammon , with its defeated king 's golden crown , and then with his victorious armies returned to Jerusalem . 
The sins of David were repeated in his sons , who , by sensuality and blood , bore the legitimate fruit of the parent tree . 
That King David did not send for his son whom he so idolized , and had , in heart , forgiven , was because he feared the people would be dissatisfied if he recalled him . 
At length , however , being prevailed upon by the eloquence of a woman who came before him at the request of Joab , and by Joab himself , who greatly desired the prince to be brought back , he gave orders as his general desired . 
The subjects of the king thereby seeing that David did not pass lightly over the crime of his son , prince though he was , and often beholding the comely young man walking in his gardens , grew less bitter after a year or more ; and , from disliking him , began to admire him , and to pity him thus kept a prisoner by the king , his father . 
Rejoiced to have an intercessor for his erring and beloved son , in so eminent a person as his general , King David gladly consented to the permission sought , and which he had long desired to grant , and at once sent for the prince ! 
King David is at this moment a fugitive from Jerusalem , an exile from his throne , fleeing from his rebellious son , Prince Absalom . 
To this arrogant presumption he was prompted by a subtle courtier , who had been his adviser and tempter in his crime , and encouraged in by the deep and artful policy of Ahithophel , the Prime Minister of David . 
Having firmly opposed his reconciliation with the prince , when , therefore , the king took Absalom back to his heart and confidence , the pride of Ahithophel , at this rejection of his wise counsel , was deeply wounded . 
He resolved to avenge this conduct of David ; for a king 's counselor can be offended in no manner so grievously as by the rejection of his counsels . 
The Prime Counselor Ahithophel , concealing his revengeful feelings , also , as before , held his place by the throne , and when David would express any misgivings as to the state in which his son was living , he would artfully put them to rest . 
O turn not away thy face from thine anointed ; for thou , O Lord , hast said thou wilt establish the throne of thy servant David forever ! '' 
That night King David left his palace , and with all his household departed on foot from the city which he could not defend . 
The royal body-guard of Cherithite archers , and the cross-bowmen of Peleth , and the six hundred towerguards of Philistines of Gath , who served him for pay , and whom Ittai , a son of King Achish , commanded -LRB- for Philistia now belonged to David -RRB- , were all the soldiers which accompanied him . 
This noble Ittai followed the king from affection , for when David was an exile in his father 's court at Gath , he was a lad of twelve , and became greatly attached to him ; and after Philistia became tributary to him , Ittai , from his ancient regard and affection , came with six hundred men and offered himself and them for the king 's service . 
Ittai now voluntarily accompanied his royal master in his misfortunes ; and David was deeply moved that foreigners should thus show their attachment to him , when his own countrymen deserted him . 
While the king was hastening onward with his melancholy army of fugitives , consisting mainly of women and children , and the halt and invalid , and old men , besides his soldiers before mentioned , he was met by Ziba , the old servant of Saul , who , you recollect , brought Prince Jonathan 's son , Mephibosheth , many years ago to Jerusalem , and whom David made the steward of Saul 's estate , which he had generously bestowed upon the son of his friend . 
When David heard this he said , bitterly : `` Yea , mine own familiar friend , in whom I trusted , which did eat of my bread , hath lifted up his heel against me . 
A little farther on , the king passed the habitation of a man named Shimei , who was a kinsman to King Saul ; and seeing David 's low estate , he cast stones at him from the top of his house , and then came forth and cursed him , and all with him , shouting aloud and rejoicing in his fall , saying : `` Come out , come out of Jerusalem , thou bloody man , thou man of Belial ! 
Then Abishai , the friend of the king , and brother of Joab , who , you remember , my father , joined David forty years ago in his exile near Mount Carmel , cried in great wrath : `` Let me , O king , take off this dog 's head who curseth my lord the king ! '' 
Joab also drew his sword to slay him . 
The Lord hath sent him , and commanded him , ` Curse David ! ' 
Such , my dear father , is the present aspect of affairs at this moment , David being now three days gone out of the city and encamped at Bahurim . 
Why wentest thou not with thy friend David , my father ? '' 
Ahithophel also counseled the usurper to choose twelve thousand men , and give him the command of them , saying , `` I will go forth and pursue David , and will presently come upon him while he is weary and weak-handed , and his men will flee , and I will smite the king only to put him to death , and then all Israel will submit to theeas king ; for there is none else ! '' 
Hushai then sent the sons of the priests secretly to warn David not to delay crossing the Jordan , lest the counsels of Ahithophel might yet prevail with the prince , and he be destroyed . 
The next night , David crossed the river Jordan with all his followers , and sought refuge in the city of Mahanaim , where Prince Ishbosheth formerly dwelt , and lodged in the palace in which he was slain by the two brothers . 
When Ahithophel heard of the interview which the prince held with the Archite , and that messengers had been sent to David , warning him of his own counsel , he saw at once that his power at the rebel court was gone ; and that he was in peril , not only from the fickle temper of his new master , but from the diplomacy of the sagacious Archite , who held his ear . 
He saw that if Absalom ultimately ruled Israel , he would put him to death ; and that if David got the better of Absalom , he would not suffer him to live after so treacherously betraying him . 
These reflections , united to the bitter idea that his rival 's counsels should be preferred to his own , maddened with vexation and anger at his defeat , his passions and anguish of mind increased by wounded pride , -LRB- for he was a man as haughty as he was sagacious , -RRB- in a moment of fierce despair at his certain disgrace , he resolved to destroy himself . 
This determination fixed , he set his house in order , wrote letters to the king and prince , and to others , and , just as the day dawned , he hanged himself with the cords of the curtain of his sumptuous couch . 
King David now organized his forces , and numbering all who were with him , found he had many thousands , both of men of Israel and Judah ; for great companies soon flocked to him at Mahanaim from all the tribes of the kingdom , while the elders and chief people beyond Jordan supplied him with all manner of camp-equipage , clothing , and provisions . 
David 's army was divided into three divisions , under the command of Joab , Abishai , his brother , -LRB- the same who went with David to Saul 's tent , and took away the cruse of oil and spear , -RRB- and Ittai , the brave Philistine chief . 
Thousands fell on the plain , and more still amid the trees of the forest by the swords of the pursuing soldiers of David . 
When the army of David , hearing the retreat sounded , stopped the pursuit and returned , Joab commanded that no one should , that day , go to the king to carry news of the war , because on the day of so great a victory he did not wish bad news to go to him ; `` for , '' said he , `` the king 's son is dead ! '' 
The next day David , seeing that he was now absolute king again , prepared to return to his capital . 
The Israelites , who had followed Absalom , now vied with the people of Judah for the honor of escorting the king and bringing him back to Jerusalem ; and were so zealous to repair their fault and honor him , that they would have had all the glory of his restoration , if word had not been sent to Jerusalem that , unless the friends of David came forth to meet him , Israel , with its armies , would alone bring the king back to his throne . 
Abiathar , the priest , however , assured them of David 's full pardon to all in Jerusalem , and that he would ask no questions of any man whether he had gone with Absalom or not . 
Then the whole army of Judah , headed by the elders and Abiathar , sent word to David , saying : `` Return , O king , to thy throne , thou and all with thee ! '' 
Without waiting for the monarch 's arrival , they marched out , and hastened to Gilgal , near Jericho , to meet and receive him when he should come over the Jordan . 
David , in the meanwhile , was waiting in Mahanaim for the late army of Absalom to assemble , to escort him back , but hoping Judah would move for this purpose before they could come together . 
It was this Amasa , David 's nephew , who accompanied King Saul and Doeg on the visit of that monarch to the sorceress in Endor . 
As the triumphant thousands of Judah came to the top of Mount Olivet , and David thence beheld the city , he stopped and gave praise to God with all his people , for being permitted once more to behold the walls of Zion in peace . 
This eminence which a few weeks before had been ascended by him in tears , and barefooted , and with his head covered in shame , he now descended with the glory and state of a conquering monarch , the people shouting `` Hosannas '' before him , strewing flowers in his path , and laying tapestry and their most gorgeous robes along the way , for his steed to tread upon ! 
His wives and concubines , which the rebel prince , in taking his father 's crown , had taken as his own , -LRB- thus fulfilling the prophecy of Nathan , that David 's wives should be given to another , -RRB- the king refused to see , but placed them in a separate house to be secluded for life from all eyes . 
Abishai , whom David had placed over his guard instead of Joab , -LRB- whom the king had forbidden his presence since the slaying of Absalom , -RRB- not knowing him in his present wretched aspect , would have led him out of the hall . 
asked David . 
`` The tale told thee by my wicked servant Ziba , O king , deceived thee , '' answered he humbly and deprecatingly ; `` I would have followed thee ; but thou knowest I could not on foot . 
When David had regarded his abject appearance and saw the tears of humility drop down upon his neglected beard , there was evidently a struggle in his mind how to decide . 
Already he had given judgment against him by giving all he had to Ziba . 
`` Because , '' David 's counsilors and chief captains answered them , `` the king is nearer to us in blood than to you , being born in Bethlehem of Judah . 
`` We have ten parts , we ten tribes of Israel , in the king , and have more right to David than you who have but two parts in him , '' the men from beyond Jordan replied . 
Sheba , a relative of Saul , and a man of unscrupulous character , of great bravery , and an adventurer in arms , living by his sword in whatsoever king 's service he could find employment , and who had been second in command in Absalom 's army , next to Amasa , seeing this disaffection , resolved to avail himself of it to create a revolt against David . 
Gathering a few desperate followers , and joined by Adonijah , a brother of Absalom , he marched from town to town , sounding a trumpet before him , and proclaiming : `` We have no part in David , neither have we inheritance in the son of Jesse ! 
The bold warrior and assassin then , raising aloft his bloody sword , cried unto the army , `` He that is on David 's side and for Joab , let him follow Joab ! '' 
An angel was also seen by night with his hand stretched forth over Jerusalem to destroy it , but the vengeance of God was stayed by a sacrifice of burnt-offerings * and peace-offerings upon an altar which David erected upon Mount Moriah , the site he had chosen for the proposed temple , and which was thereby solemnly consecrated by blood . 
`` The remaining years of David were spent in making the most costly preparations for the building of the temple , and in securing the succession to his son Solomon , to whom this great trust was to be bequeathed . 
When this intelligence was communicated to David , without the slightest delay he commanded Nathan , the prophet , and Zadok , the priest , with Benaiah , one of his most valiant captains , to take Solomon down to Gihon , to anoint and proclaim him king . 
David , after this success , assembled first the great body of leading men in the state , and afterward called a more extensive and popular convention of the people , before whom he designated Solomon as his successor , commended to the zeal and piety of the people the building of the temple , and received their contributions towards the great national work . 
`` As his death approached , he strictly enjoined his son to adhere to the Mosaic laws and to the divine constitution . 
He recommended him to watch with a jealous eye the bold and restless Joab ; a man who , however brave and faithful , was dangerous from his restless ambition , and from the savage unscrupulousness with which he shed the blood of his enemies . 
* `` Thus , having provided for the security of the succession , the maintenance of the law , and the lasting dignity of the national religion , David breathed his last , having reigned forty years over the flourishing and powerful monarchy of which he may be considered the founder . 
He had succeeded to a kingdom distracted with civil dissension , environed on every side by powerful and victorious enemies , without a capital , almost without an army , without any bond of union between the tribes . 
He left a compact and united state , stretching from the frontier of Egypt to the foot of Lebanon , from the Euphrates to the sea . 
He had crushed the power of the Philistines , subdued or curbed all the adjacent kingdoms : he had formed a lasting and important alliance with the great city of Tyre . 
He had organized an immense disposable force : every month 24,000 men , furnished in rotation by the tribes , appeared in arms , and were trained as the standing militia of the country . 
At the head of his army were officers of consummate experience , and , what was more highly esteemed in the warfare of the time , extraordinary personal activity , strength , and valor . 
His heroes remind us of those of Arthur or Charlemagne , excepting that the armor of the feudal chieftains constituted the superiority ; here main strength of body and dauntless fortitude of mind . 
If the rapidity with which a kingdom rises to unexampled prosperity , and the permanence , as far as human wisdom can provide , of that prosperity , be a fair criterion of the abilities and character of a sovereign , few kings in history can compete with David . 
His personal character has been often discussed ; but both by his enemies , and even by some of his learned defenders , with an ignorance of , or inattention to , his age and country , as melancholy as surprising . 
`` The three most eminent men in the Hebrew annals , Moses , David , and Solomon , were three of their most distinguished poets . 
The hymns of David excel no less in sublimity and tenderness of expression than in loftiness and purity of religious sentiment . 
If the perusal of these illustrations of the days of Saul and of David sufficiently interest the reader , who has , hitherto , had but little knowledge of the Scriptures , and sends him to those sacred pages for instruction and comparison , the author 's object will have been achieved . 
For an account of the building of the Temple , for which David collected , in the closing years of his reign , the varied and costly materials , the reader is referred to the Appendix at the close of the volume . 
Of whom David sung , striking his prophetic harp : And the inspired Apostle of the Apocalypse , seeing for beyond the earthly Jerusalem to the ends of the ages , writes of the last Prince of the House of David : * This sacrifice of a lamb averted the anger of Jehovah , and saved Jerusalem . 
