`` This is Mr. Micawber , '' said Mr. Quinion to me . 
`` Mr. Micawber , '' said Mr. Quinion , `` is known to Mr. Murdstone . 
`` My address , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` is Windsor Terrace , City Road . 
I -- in short , '' said Mr. Micawber , with the same genteel air , and in another burst of confidence -- `` I live there . '' 
I made him a bow . 
`` Under the impression , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` that your peregrinations in this metropolis have not as yet been extensive , and that you might have some difficulty in penetrating the arcana of the Modern Babylon in the direction of the City Road -- in short , '' said Mr. Micawber , in another burst of confidence , `` that you might lose yourself -- I shall be happy to call this evening , and install you in the knowledge of the nearest way . '' 
I thanked him with all my heart , for it was friendly in him to offer to take that trouble . 
`` At what hour , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` shall I -- '' `` At about eight , '' said Mr. Quinion . 
`` At about eight , '' said Mr. Micawber . 
So he put on his hat , and went out with his cane under his arm : very upright , and humming a tune when he was clear of the counting-house . 
At the appointed time in the evening , Mr. Micawber reappeared . 
I washed my hands and face , to do the greater honour to his gentility , and we walked to our house , as I suppose I must now call it , together ; Mr. Micawber impressing the names of streets , and the shapes of corner houses upon me , as we went along , that I might find my way back , easily , in the morning . 
Arrived at his house in Windsor Terrace -LRB- which I noticed was shabby like himself , but also , like himself , made all the show it could -RRB- , he presented me to Mrs. Micawber , a thin and faded lady , not at all young , who was sitting in the parlor -LRB- the first floor was altogether unfurnished , and the blinds were kept down to delude the neighbours -RRB- , with a baby at her breast . 
But Mr. Micawber being in difficulties , all considerations of private feeling must give way . '' 
`` Mr. Micawber 's difficulties are almost overwhelming just at present , '' said Mrs. Micawber ; `` and whether it is possible to bring him through them , I do n't know . 
I can not satisfy myself whether she told me that Mr. Micawber had been an officer in the Marines , or whether I have imagined it . 
I only know that I believe to this hour that he wasin the Marines once upon a time , without knowing why . 
He was a sort of town traveller for a number of miscellaneous houses , now ; but made little or nothing of it , I am afraid . 
`` If Mr. Micawber 's creditors will notgive him time , '' said Mrs. Micawber , `` they must take the consequences ; and the sooner they bring it to an issue the better . 
Blood can not be obtained from a stone , neither can anything on account be obtained at present -LRB- not to mention law expenses -RRB- from Mr. Micawber . '' 
One dirty-faced man , I think he was a bootmaker , used to edge himself into the passage as early as seven o'clock in the morning , and call up the stairs to Mr. Micawber -- `` Come ! 
Receiving no answer to these taunts , he would mount in his wrath to the words `` swindlers '' and `` robbers ; '' and these being ineffectual too , would sometimes go to the extremity of crossing the street , and roaring up at the windows of the second floor , where he knew Mr. Micawber was . 
At these times , Mr. Micawber would be transported with grief and mortification , even to the length -LRB- as I was once made aware by a scream from his wife -RRB- of making motions at himself with a razor ; but within half an hour afterwards , he would polish up his shoes with extraordinary pains , and go out , humming a tune with a greater air of gentility than ever . 
Mr. Micawber 's difficulties were an addition to the distressed state of my mind . 
In my forlorn state I became quite attached to the family , and used to walk about , busy with Mrs. Micawber 's calculations of ways and means , and heavy with the weight of Mr. Micawber 's debts . 
It was nothing at all unusual for Mr. Micawber to sob violently at the beginning of one of these Saturday night conversations , and sing about Jack 's delight being his lovely Nan , towards the end of it . 
This she did one evening as follows : `` Master Copperfield , '' said Mrs. Micawber , `` I make no stranger of you , and therefore do not hesitate to say that Mr. Micawber 's difficulties are coming to a crisis . '' 
Mr. Micawber 's feelings would never allow himto dispose of them ; and Clickett '' -- this was the girl from the workhouse -- `` being of a vulgar mind , would take painful liberties if so much confidence was reposed in her . 
Mr. Micawber had a few books on a little chiffonier , which he called the library ; and those went first . 
At last Mr. Micawber 's difficulties came to a crisis , and he was arrested early one morning , and carried over to the King 's Bench Prison in the Borough . 
Mr. Micawber was waiting for me within the gate , and we went up to his room -LRB- top story but one -RRB- , and cried very much . 
He solemnly conjured me , I remember , to take warning by his fate ; and to observe that if a man had twenty pounds a-year for his income , and spent nineteen pounds nineteen shillings and sixpence , he would be happy , but that if he spent twenty pounds one he would be miserable . 
We sat before a little fire , with two bricks put within the rusted grate , one on each side , to prevent its burning too many coals ; until another debtor , who shared the room with Mr. Micawber , came in from the bake-house with the loin of mutton which was our joint-stock repast . 
Then I was sent up to `` Captain Hopkins '' in the room overhead , with Mr. Micawber 's compliments , and I was his young friend , and would Captain Hopkins lend me a knife and fork . 
Captain Hopkins lent me the knife and fork , with his compliments to Mr. Micawber . 
There was a very dirty lady in his little room , and two wan girls , his daughters , with shock heads of hair . 
At last Mrs. Micawber resolved to move into the prison , where Mr. Micawber had now secured a room to himself . 
Mine was a quiet back-garret with a sloping roof , commanding a pleasant prospect of a timber-yard ; and when I took possession of it , with the reflection that Mr. Micawber 's troubles had come to a crisis at last , I thought it quite a paradise . 
In the evening I used to go back to the prison , and walk up and down the parade with Mr. Micawber ; or play casino with Mrs. Micawber , and hear reminiscences of her papa and mama . 
Mr. Micawber 's affairs , although past their crisis , were very much involved by reason of a certain `` Deed , '' of which I used to hear a great deal , and which I suppose , now , to have been some former composition with his creditors , though I was so far from being clear about it then , that I am conscious of having confounded it with those demoniacal parchments which are held to have , once upon a time , obtained to a great extent in Germany . 
At last this document appeared to be got out of the way , somehow ; at all events it ceased to be the rock-ahead it had been ; and Mrs. Micawber informed me that `` her family '' had decided that Mr. Micawber should apply for his release under the Insolvent Debtors Act , which would set him free , she expected , in about six weeks . 
`` And then , '' said Mr. Micawber , who was present , `` I have no doubt I shall , please Heaven , begin to be beforehand with the world , and to live in a perfectly new manner , if -- in short , if anything turns up . '' 
By way of going in for anything that might be on the cards , I call to mind that Mr. Micawber , about this time , composed a petition to the House of Commons , praying for an alteration in the law of imprisonment for debt . 
There was a club in the prison , in which Mr. Micawber , as a gentleman , was a great authority . 
Mr. Micawber had stated his idea of this petition to the club , and the club had strongly approved of the same . 
Wherefore Mr. Micawber -LRB- who was a thoroughly good-natured man , and as active a creature about everything but his own affairs as ever existed , and never so happy as when he was busy about something that could never be of any profit to him -RRB- set to work at the petition , invented it , engrossed it on an immense sheet of paper , spread it out on a table , and appointed a time for all the club , and all within the walls if they chose , to come up to his room and sign it . 
As many of the principal members of the club as could be got into the small room without filling it , supported Mr. Micawber in front of the petition , while my old friend Captain Hopkins -LRB- who had washed himself , to do honor to so solemn an occasion -RRB- stationed himself close to it , to read it to all who were unacquainted with its contents . 
I remember a certain luscious roll he gave to such phrases as `` The people 's representatives in Parliament assembled , '' `` Your petitioners therefore humbly approach your honorable house , '' `` His gracious Majesty 's unfortunate subjects , '' as if the words were something real in his mouth , and delicious to taste ; Mr. Micawber , meanwhile , listening with a little of an author 's vanity , and contemplating -LRB- not severely -RRB- the spikes on the opposite wall . 
Indue time , Mr. Micawber 's petition was ripe for hearing ; and that gentleman was ordered to be discharged under the act , to my great joy . 
Mr. Micawber returned to the King 's Bench when his case was over , as some fees were to be settled , and some formalities observed , before he could be actually released . 
The club received him with transport , and held an harmonic meeting that evening in his honor ; while Mrs. Micawber and I had a lamb 's fry in private , surrounded by the sleeping family . 
`` My mama departed this life , '' said Mrs. Micawber , `` before Mr. Micawber 's difficulties commenced , or at least before they became pressing . 
My papa lived to bail Mr. Micawber several times , and then expired , regretted by a numerous circle . '' 
As I could hardly hope for a more favourable opportunity of putting a question in which I had a near interest , I said to Mrs. Micawber : `` May I ask , ma'am , what you and Mr. Micawber intend to do , now that Mr. Micawber is out of his difficulties , and at liberty ? 
`` My family , '' said Mrs. Micawber , who always said those two words with an air , though I never could discover who came under the denomination , `` my family are of opinion that Mr. Micawber should quit London , and exert his talents in the country . 
Mr. Micawber is a man of great talent , Master Copperfield . '' 
The influence of my family being local , it is their wish that Mr. Micawber should go down to Plymouth . 
They think it indispensable that he should be upon the spot . '' 
`` That he may be ready ? '' 
`` That he may be ready -- in case of anything turning up . '' 
The events of the day , in combination with the twins , if not with the flip , had made Mrs. Micawber hysterical , and she shed tears as she replied : `` I never will desert Mr. Micawber . 
Mr. Micawber may have concealed his difficulties from me in the first instance , but his sanguine temper may have led him to expect that he would overcome them . 
But I never will desert Mr. Micawber . 
`` Mr. Micawber has his faults . 
I do not deny that he is improvident . 
I do not deny that he has kept me in the dark as to his resources and his liabilities , both , '' she went on , looking at the wall ; `` but I never will desert Mr. Micawber ! '' 
Mrs. Micawber having now raised her voice into a perfect scream , I was so frightened that I ran off to the club-room , and disturbed Mr. Micawber in the act of presiding at a long table , and leading the chorus of Gee up , Dobbin , Gee ho , Dobbin , Gee up , Dobbin , Gee up , and gee ho -- o -- o ! 
cried Mr. Micawber , running into the room ; `` what is the matter ? '' 
`` I never will desert you , Micawber ! '' 
said Mr. Micawber , taking her in his arms . 
`` He is the parent of my children ! 
He is the father of my twins ! 
He is the husband of my affections , '' cried Mrs. Micawber , struggling ; `` and I ne -- ver -- will -- desert Mr. Micawber ! '' 
Mr. Micawber was so deeply affected by this proof of her devotion -LRB- as to me , I was dissolved in tears -RRB- , that he hung over her in a passionate manner , imploring her to look up , and to be calm . 
But the more he asked Mrs. Micawber to look up , the more she fixed her eyes on nothing ; and the more he asked her to compose herself , the more she would n't . 
Consequently Mr. Micawber was soon so overcome , that he mingled his tears with hers and mine ; until he begged me to do him the favor of taking a chair on the staircase , while he got her into bed . 
I would have taken my leave for the night , but he would not hear of my doing that until the strangers ' bell should ring . 
So I sat at the staircase window , until he came out with another chair and joined me . 
`` Very low , '' said Mr. Micawber , shaking his head ; `` re-action . 
Mr. Micawber pressed my hand , and groaned , and afterwards shed tears . 
All their elasticity was departed , and I never saw them half so wretched as on this night ; insomuch that when the bell rang , and Mr. Micawber walked with me to the lodge , and parted from me there with a blessing , I felt quite afraid to leave him by himself , he was so profoundly miserable . 
Mr. Micawber himself came down to the counting-house , in the afternoon to tell Mr. Quinion that he must relinquish me on the day of his departure , and to give me a high character , which I am sure I deserved . 
`` I shall never , Master Copperfield , '' said Mrs. Micawber , `` revert to the period when Mr. Micawber was in difficulties , without thinking of you . 
`` My dear , '' said Mr. Micawber ; `` Copperfield , '' for so he had been accustomed to call me , of late , `` has a heart to feel for the distresses of his fellow creatures when they are behind a cloud , and a head to plan , and a hand to -- in short , a general ability to dispose of such available property as could be made away with . '' 
`` My dear young friend , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` I am older than you ; a man of some experience in life , and -- and of some experience , in short , in difficulties , generally speaking . 
Still my advice is so far worth taking , that -- in short , that I have never taken it myself , and am the '' -- here Mr. Micawber , who had been beaming and smiling , all over his head and face , up to the present moment , checked himself and frowned -- `` the miserable wretch you behold . '' 
`` My dear Micawber ! '' 
urged his wife . 
`` I say , '' returned Mr. Micawber , quite forgetting himself , and smiling again , `` the miserable wretch you behold . 
`` My dear , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` your papa was very well in his way , and Heaven forbid that I should disparage him . 
Mr. Micawber looked aside at Mrs. Micawber , and added : `` Not that I am sorry for it . 
After which , he was grave for a minute or so . 
`` My other piece of advice , Copperfield , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` you know . 
To make his example the more impressive , Mr. Micawber drank a glass of punch with an air of great enjoyment and satisfaction , and whistled the College Hornpipe . 
I did not fail to assure him that I would store these precepts in my mind , though indeed I had no need to do so , for , at the time , they affected me visibly . 
`` Copperfield , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` farewell ! 
Was there anything about me which would reveal my proceedings in connexion with the Micawber family -- all those pawnings , and sellings , and suppers -- in spite of myself ? 
It was Mr. Micawber ! 
`` My dear Cooperfield , '' said Mr. Micawber , putting out his hand , `` this is indeed a meeting which is calculated to impress the mind with a sense of the instability and uncertainty of all human -- in short , it is a most extraordinary meeting . 
I can not say -- I really cannotsay -- that I was glad to see Mr. Micawber there ; but I was glad to see him too , and shook hands with him heartily , inquiring how Mrs. Micawber was . 
`` Thank you , '' said Mr. Micawber , waving his hand as of old , and settling his chin in his shirt-collar . 
The twins no longer derive their sustenance from Nature 's founts -- in short , '' said Mr. Micawber , in one of his burst of confidence , `` they are weaned -- and Mrs. Micawber is , at present , my travelling companion . 
`` You are very good , '' said Mr. Micawber . 
Mr. Micawber then smiled , settled his chin again , and looked about him . 
`` I have discovered my friend Copperfield , '' said Mr. Micawber genteelly , and without addressing himself particularly to any one , `` not in solitude , but partaking of a social meal in company with a widow lady , and one who is apparently her offspring -- in short , '' said Mr. Micawber , in another of his bursts of confidence , `` her son . 
I could do no less , under these circumstances , than make Mr. Micawber known to Uriah Heep and his mother ; which I according did . 
As they abased themselves before him , Mr. Micawber took a seat , and waved his hand in his most courtly manner . 
`` Any friend of my friend Copperfield 's '' said Mr. Micawber , `` has a personal claim upon myself . '' 
`` Ma'am , '' returned Mr. Micawber , with a bow , `` you are very obliging : and what are you doing , Copperfield ? 
I was excessively anxious to get Mr. Micawber away ; and replied , with my hat in my hand , and a very red face I have no doubt , that I was a pupil at Doctor Strong 's . 
said Mr. Micawber , raising his eyebrows . 
Although a mind like my friend Copperfield 's '' -- to Uriah and Mrs. Heep -- `` does not require that cultivation which , without his knowledge of men and things , it would require , still it is a rich soil teeming with latent vegetation -- in short , '' said Mr. Micawber , smiling in another burst of confidence , `` it is an intellect capable of getting up the classics to any extent . '' 
Uriah , with long hands slowly twining over one another , made a ghastly writhe from the waist upwards , to express his concurrence in this estimation of me . 
I said , to get Mr. Micawber away . 
`` If you will do her that favor , Copperfield , '' replied Mr. Micawber , rising . 
`` I have no scruple in saying , in the presence of our friends here , that I am a man who has , for some years , contended against the pressure of pecuniary difficulties , '' I knew he was certain to say something of this kind ; he always would be so boastful about his difficulties . 
But at no time of my life , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` have I enjoyed a higher degree of satisfaction than in pouring my griefs -LRB- if I may describe difficulties , chiefly arising out of warrants of attorney and promissory notes at two and four months , by that word -RRB- into the bosom of my friend Copperfield . '' 
Mr. Micawber closed this handsome tribute by saying , `` Mr. Heep ! 
Your servant , '' and then walking out with me in his most fashionable manner , making a good deal of noise on the pavement with his shoes , and humming a tune as we went . 
It was a little inn where Mr. Micawber put up , and he occupied a little room in it , partitioned off from the commercial room , and strongly flavored with tobacco smoke . 
Here , recumbent on a small sofa , underneath a picture of a race-horse , with her head close to the fire , and her feet pushing the mustard off the dumb-waiter at the other end of the room , was Mrs. Micawber , to whom Mr. Micawber entered first , saying , `` My dear , allow me to introduce to you a pupil of Doctor Strong 's . '' 
I noticed , by-the-by , that although Mr. Micawber was just as much confused as ever about my age and standing , he always remembered , as a genteel thing , that I was a pupil of Doctor Strong 's . 
`` My dear , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` if you will mention to Copperfield what our present position is , which I have no doubt he will like to know , I will go and look at the paper the while , and see whether any thing turns up among the advertisements . '' 
`` I thought you were at Plymouth , ma'am , '' I said to Mrs. Micawber , as he went out . 
The local influence of my family was quite unavailing to obtain any employment in that department , for a man of Mr. Micawber 's abilities . 
They would rather nothave a man of Mr. Micawber 's abilities . 
Apart from which , '' said Mrs. Micawber , `` I will not disguise from you , my dear Master Copperfield , that when that branch of my family which is settled in Plymouth became aware that Mr. Micawber was accompanied by myself , and by little Wilkins and his sister , and by the twins , they did not receive him with that ardor which he might have expected , being so newly released from captivity . 
In fact , that branch of my family which is settled in Plymouth became quite personal to Mr. Micawber , before we had been there a week . '' 
`` Under such circumstances , what could a man of Mr. Micawber 's spirit do ? 
`` Since then , I have consulted other branches of my family on the course which it is most expedient for Mr. Micawber to take -- for I maintain that he must take some course , Master Copperfield , '' said Mrs. Micawber , argumentatively . 
`` Certainly , ma'am , '' said I. `` The opinion of those other branches of my family , '' pursued Mrs. Micawber , `` is , that Mr. Micawber should immediately turn his attention to coals . '' 
Mr. Micawber was induced to think , on inquiry , that there might be an opening for a man of his talent in the Medway Coal Trade . 
Then , as Mr. Micawber very properly said , the first step to be taken clearly was , to come and seethe Medway . 
I say ` we , ' Master Copperfield ; for I never will , '' said Mrs. Micawber with emotion , `` I never will desert Mr. Micawber . '' 
Talent , Mr. Micawber has ; capital , Mr. Micawber has not . 
Being so near here , Mr. Micawber was of opinion that it would be rash not to come on , and see the Cathedral . 
I felt the utmost sympathy for Mr. and Mrs. Micawber in this anxious extremity , and said as much to Mr. Micawber , who now returned : adding that I only wished I had money enough , to lend them the amount they needed . 
Mr. Micawber 's answer expressed the disturbance of his mind . 
At this dreadful hint Mrs. Micawber threw her arms round Mr. Micawber 's neck and entreated him to be calm . 
But , as I knew I could not come next day , when I should have a good deal to prepare in the evening , Mr. Micawber arranged that he would call at Doctor Strong 's in the course of the morning -LRB- having a presentiment that the remittance would arrive by that post -RRB- , and propose the day after , if it would suit me better . 
Accordingly I was called out of school next forenoon , and found Mr. Micawber in the parlor ; who had called to say that the dinner would take place as proposed . 
When I asked him if the remittance had come , he pressed my hand and departed . 
As I was looking out of window that same evening , it surprised me , and made me rather uneasy , to see Mr. Micawber and Uriah Heep walk past , arm in arm : Uriah humbly sensible of the honor that was done him , and Mr. Micawber taking a bland delight in extending his patronage to Uriah . 
But I was still more surprised , when I went to the little hotel next day at the appointed dinner hour , which was four o'clock , to find , from what Mr. Micawber said , that he had gone home with Uriah , and had drunk brandy-and-water at Mrs. Heep 's . 
`` And I 'll tell you what , my dear Copperfield , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` your friend Heep is a young fellow who might be attorney-general . 
I hardly understood how this could have been , seeing that Mr. Micawber had paid them nothing at all as it was ; but I did not like to ask . 
Neither did I like to say , that I hoped he had not been too communicative to Uriah ; or to inquire if they had talked much about me . 
I was afraid of hurting Mr. Micawber 's feelings , or , at all events , Mrs. Micawber 's , she being very sensitive ; but I was uncomfortable about it , too , and often thought about it afterwards . 
Mr. Micawber was uncommonly convivial . 
I never saw him such good company . 
He made his face shine with the punch , so that it looked as if it had been varnished all over . 
He got cheerfully sentimental about the town , and proposed success to it ; observing , that Mrs. Micawber and himself had been made extremely snug and comfortable there , and that he never should forget the agreeable hours they had passed in Canterbury . 
He proposed me afterwards ; and he , and Mrs. Micawber , and I , took a review of our past acquaintance , in the course of which we sold the property all over again . 
On which Mr. Micawber delivered an eulogium on Mrs. Micawber 's character , and said she had ever been his guide , philosopher , and friend , and that he would recommend me , when I came to a marrying time of life , to marry such another woman , if such another woman could be found . 
As the punch disappeared , Mr. Micawber became still more friendly and convivial . 
In a word , I never saw any body so thoroughly jovial as Mr. Micawber was , down to the very last moment of the evening , when I took a hearty farewell of himself and his amiable wife . 
Consequently , I was not prepared , at seven o'clock next morning , to receive the following communication , dated half-past nine in the evening ; a quarter of an hour after I had left him . 
I was so shocked by the contents of this heart-rending letter , that I ran off directly towards the little hotel with the intention of taking it on my way to Doctor Strong 's , and trying to soothe Mr. Micawber with a word of comfort . 
But , half-way there , I met the London coach with Mr. and Mrs. Micawber up behind ; Mr. Micawber , the very picture of tranquil enjoyment , smiling at Mrs. Micawber 's conversation , eating walnuts out of a paper bag , with a bottle sticking out of his breast pocket . 
I looked at nothing , that I know of , but I saw everything , even to the prospect of a church upon his china inkstand , as I sat down -- and this , too , was a faculty confirmed in me in the old Micawber times . 
An opportune double knock at the door , which I knew well from old experience in Windsor Terrace , and which nobody but Mr. Micawber could ever have knocked at that door , resolved any doubt in my mind as to their being my old friends . 
I begged Traddles to ask his landlord to walk up . 
Traddles accordingly did so , over the bannister ; and Mr. Micawber , not a bit changed -- his tights , his stick , his shirt-collar , and his eye-glass , all the same as ever -- came into the room with a genteel and youthful air . 
`` I beg your pardon , Mr. Traddles , '' said Mr. Micawber , with the old roll in his voice , as he checked himself in humming a soft tune . 
Mr. Micawber slightly bowed to me , and pulled up his shirt-collar . 
`` How do you do , Mr. Micawber ? '' 
said I. `` Sir , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` you are exceedingly obliging . 
`` Sir , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` she is also , thank God , in statu quo . '' 
`` And the children , Mr. Micawber ? '' 
`` Sir , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` I rejoice to reply that they are , likewise , in the enjoyment of salubrity . '' 
All this time , Mr. Micawber had not known me in the least , though he had stood face to face with me . 
But , now , seeing me smile , he examined my features with more attention , fell back , cried , `` Is it possible ! 
said Mr. Micawber , `` to think that I should find you acquainted with the friend of my youth , the companion of earlier days ! 
Mr. Micawber immediately reappeared , and shook hands with me again . 
said Mr. Micawber , `` and all the circle at Canterbury ? '' 
`` I have none but good accounts of them , '' said I. `` I am most delighted to hear it , '' said Mr. Micawber . 
Within the shadow , I may figuratively say , of that religious edifice , immortalized by Chaucer , which was anciently the resort of Pilgrims from the remotest corners of -- in short , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` in the immediate neighbourhood of the Cathedral . '' 
Mr. Micawber continued talking as volubly as he could ; but not , I thought , without showing , by some marks of concern in his countenance , that he was sensible of sounds in the next room , as of Mrs. Micawber washing her hands , and hurriedly opening and shutting drawers that were uneasy in their action . 
`` You find us , Copperfield , '' said Mr. Micawber , with one eye on Traddles , `` at present established , on what may be designated as a small and unassuming scale ; but , you are aware that I have , in the course of my career , surmounted difficulties , and conquered obstacles . 
`` My dear , '' said Mr. Micawber , leading her towards me . 
It would have been better , as it turned out , to have led gently up to his announcement , for Mrs. Micawber , being in a delicate state of health , was overcome by it , and was taken so unwell , that Mr. Micawber was obliged , in great trepidation , to run down to the water-butt in the back yard , and draw a basinful to lave her brow with . 
Mr. Micawber was very anxious that I should stay to dinner . 
Mr. Micawber , under pretence of showing me a nearer way than that by which I had come , accompanied me to the corner of the street ; being anxious -LRB- he explained to me -RRB- to say a few words to an old friend , in confidence . 
`` My dear Copperfield , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` I need hardly tell you that to have beneath our roof , under existing circumstances , a mind like that which gleams -- if I may be allowed the expression -- which gleams -- in your friend Traddles , is an unspeakable comfort . 
Mr. Micawber then shook hands with me again , and left me . 
Having laid in the materials for a bowl of punch , to be compounded by Mr. Micawber ; having provided a bottle of lavender-water , two wax candles , a paper of mixed pins , and a pincushion , to assist Mrs. Micawber in her toilette , at my dressing-table ; having also caused the fire in my bed-room to be lighted for Mrs. Micawber 's convenience ; and having laid the cloth with my own hands , I awaited the result with composure . 
Mr. Micawber with more shirt-collar than usual , and a new ribbon to his eye-glass ; Mrs. Micawber with her cap in a whitey-brown paper parcel ; Traddles carrying the parcel , and supporting Mrs. Micawber on his arm . 
When I conducted Mrs. Micawber to my dressing-table , and she saw the scale on which it was prepared for her , she was in such raptures , that she called Mr. Micawber to come in and look . 
`` My dear Copperfield , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` this is luxurious . 
`` My dear , '' returned Mr. Micawber with sudden seriousness , `` I have no desire to answer for others . 
`` Micawber ! '' 
I , who never have deserted you ; who never willdesert you , Micawber ! '' 
`` My love , '' said Mr. Micawber , much affected , `` you will forgive , and our old and tried friend Copperfield will , I am sure , forgive , the momentary laceration of a wounded spirit , made sensitive by a recent collision with the Minion of Power -- in other words , with a ribald Turncock attached to the water-works -- and will pity , not condemn , its excesses . '' 
Mr. Micawber then embraced Mrs. Micawber , and pressed my hand ; leaving me to infer from this broken allusion that his domestic supply of water had been cut off that afternoon , in consequence of default in the payment of the company 's rates . 
To divert his thoughts from this melancholy subject , I informed Mr. Micawber that I relied upon him for a bowl of punch , and led him to the lemons . 
I never saw a man so thoroughly enjoy himself amid the fragrance of lemon-peel and sugar , the odor of burning rum , and the steam of boiling water as Mr. Micawber did that afternoon . 
It was wonderful to see his face shining at us out of a thin cloud of these delicate fumes , as he stirred , and mixed , and tasted , and looked as if he were making , instead of punch , a fortune for his family down to the latest posterity . 
In short , the banquet was such a failure that I should have been quite unhappy -- about the failure , I mean , for I was always unhappy about Dora -- if I had not been relieved by the great good-humour of my company , and by a bright suggestion from Mr. Micawber . 
`` My dear friend Copperfield , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` accidents will occur in the best regulated families ; and in families not regulated by that pervading influence which sanctifies while it enhances the -- a -- I would say , in short , by the influence of Woman , in the lofty character of Wife , they may be expected with confidence , and must be borne with philosophy . 
We had it in , in a twinkling , and immediately applied ourselves to carrying Mr. Micawber 's idea into effect . 
The division of labor to which he had referred was this : -- Traddles cut the mutton into slices ; Mr. Micawber -LRB- who could do anything of this sort to perfection -RRB- covered them with pepper , mustard , salt , and cayenne ; I put them on the gridiron , turned them with a fork , and took them off , under Mr. Micawber 's directions ; and Mrs. Micawber heated , and continually stirred , some mushroom ketchup in a little saucepan . 
Mr. Micawber , humming a tune , to show that he was quite at ease , subsided into his chair , with the handle of a hastily-concealed fork sticking out of the bosom of his coat , as if he had stabbed himself . 
Mr. Micawber roused me from this reflection , which was blended with a certain remorseful apprehension of seeing Steerforth himself , by bestowing many encomiums on the absent Littimer as a most respectable fellow , and a thoroughly admirable servant . 
Mr. Micawber , I may remark , had taken his full share of the general bow , and had received it with infinite condescension . 
`` But punch , my dear Copperfield , '' said Mr. Micawber , tasting it , `` like time and tide , waits for no man . 
`` Then I will drink , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` if my friend Copperfield will permit me to take that social liberty , to the days when my friend Copperfield and myself were younger , and fought our way in the world side by side . 
I am not exactly aware , '' said Mr. Micawber , with the old roll in his voice , and the old indescribable air of saying something genteel , `` what gowans may be , but I have no doubt that Copperfield and myself would frequently have taken a pull at them , if it had been feasible . '' 
Mr. Micawber , at the then present moment , took a pull at his punch . 
So we all did : Traddles evidently lost in wondering at what distant time Mr. Micawber and I could possibly have been comrades in the battle of the world . 
said Mr. Micawber , clearing his throat , and warming with the punch and with the fire . 
`` As we are quite confidential here , Mr. Copperfield , '' said Mrs. Micawber , sipping her punch , `` Mr. Traddles being a part of our domesticity , I should much like to have your opinion on Mr. Micawber 's prospects . 
For corn , '' said Mrs. Micawber argumentatively , `` as I have repeatedly said to Mr. Micawber , may be gentlemanly , but it is not remunerative . 
`` Then , '' said Mrs. Micawber , who prided herself on taking a clear view of things , and keeping Mr. Micawber straight by her woman 's wisdom , when he might otherwise go a little crooked , `` then I ask myself this question . 
Mr. Micawber , leaning back in his chair with his hands in his pockets , eyed us aside , and nodded his head , as much as to say that the case was very clearly put . 
`` The articles of corn and coals , '' said Mrs. Micawber , still more argumentatively , `` being equally out of the question , Mr. Copperfield , I naturally look round the world , and say , ` What is there in which a person of Mr. Micawber 's talent is likely to succeed ? ' 
What is best suited to a person of Mr. Micawber 's peculiar temperament , is , I am convinced , a certainty . '' 
Traddles and I both expressed , by a felling murmur , that this great discovery was no doubt true of Mr. Micawber , and that it did him much credit . 
`` I will not conceal from you , my dear Mr. Copperfield , '' said Mrs. Micawber , `` that Ihave long felt the Brewing business to be particularly adapted to Mr. Micawber . 
It is on that extensive footing that Mr. Micawber , I know from my own knowledge of him , is calculated to shine ; and the profits , I am told , are e - NOR -- mous ! 
But if Mr. Micawber can not get into those firms -- which decline to answer his letters , when he offers his services even in an inferior capacity -- what is the use of dwelling upon that idea ? 
I may have a conviction that Mr. Micawber 's manners '' -- `` Hem ! 
Really , my dear , '' interposed Mr. Micawber . 
`` My love , be silent , '' said Mrs. Micawber , laying her brown glove on his hand . 
`` I may have a conviction , Mr. Copperfield , that Mr. Micawber 's manners peculiarly qualify him for the Banking business . 
But if the various banking-houses refuse to avail themselves of Mr. Micawber 's abilities , or receive the offer of them with contumely , what is the use of dwelling upon thatidea ? 
As to originating a banking-business , I may know that there are members of my family who , if they chose to place their money in Mr. Micawber 's hands , might found an establishment of that description . 
But if they do notchoose to place their money in Mr. Micawber 's hands -- which they do n't -- what is the use of that ? 
Now I am convinced , myself , and this I have pointed out to Mr. Micawber several times of late , that things can not be expected to turn up of themselves . 
Here is Mr. Micawber , with a variety of qualifications -- with great talent -- '' `` Really , my love , '' said Mr. Micawber . 
Here is Mr. Micawber , with a variety of qualifications , with great talent -- Ishould say , with genius , but that may be the partiality of a wife -- '' Traddles and I both murmured `` No . '' 
`` And here is Mr. Micawber without any suitable position or employment . 
It appears to me , my dear Mr. Copperfield , '' said Mrs. Micawber , forcibly , `` that what Mr. Micawber has to do , is to throw down the gauntlet to society , and say , in effect , ` Show me who will take that up . 
It appears to me , that what Mr. Micawber has to do , in justice to himself , in justice to his family , and I will even go so far as to say in justice to society , by which he has been hitherto overlooked , is to advertise in all the papers , to describe himself plainly as so and so , with such and such qualifications , and to put it thus : ` Nowemploy me , on remunerative terms , and address , post-paid , to W. M. , Post Office , Camden Town . 
''' `` This idea of Mrs. Micawber 's , my dear Copperfield , '' said Mr. Micawber , making his shirt-collar meet in front of his chin , and glancing at me sideways , `` is , in fact , the Leap to which I alluded , when I last had the pleasure of seeing you . '' 
I have made the identical observation to Mr. Micawber . 
It is for that reason especially , that I think Mr. Micawber ought -LRB- as I have already said , in justice to himself , in justice to his family , and in justice to society -RRB- to raise a certain sum of money -- on a bill . '' 
Mr. Micawber , leaning back in his chair , trifled with his eye-glass , and cast his eyes up at the ceiling ; but I thought him observant of Traddles too , who was looking at the fire . 
`` If no member of my family , '' said Mrs. Micawber , `` is possessed of sufficient natural feeling to negotiate that bill -- I believe there is a better business-term to express what I mean -- '' Mr. Micawber , with his eyes still cast up at the ceiling , suggested `` Discount . '' 
`` To discount that bill , '' said Mrs. Micawber , `` then my opinion is , that Mr. Micawber should go into the City , should take that bill into the Money Market , and should dispose of it for what he can get . 
If the individuals in the Money Market oblige Mr. Micawber to sustain a great sacrifice , that is between themselves and their consciences . 
I recommend Mr. Micawber , my dear Mr. Copperfield , to do the same ; to regard it as an investment which is sure of return , and to make up his mind to anysacrifice . '' 
`` I will not , '' said Mrs. Micawber , finishing her punch , and gathering her scarf about her shoulders , preparatory to her withdrawal to my bed-room : `` I will not protract these remarks on the subject of Mr. Micawber 's pecuniary affairs . 
At your fireside , my dear Mr. Copperfield , and in the presence of Mr. Traddles , who , though not so old a friend , is quite one of ourselves , I could not refrain from making you acquainted with the course Iadvise Mr. Micawber to take . 
I feel that the time is arrived when Mr. Micawber should exert himself and -- I will add -- assert himself , and it appears to me that these are the means . 
In the fervor of this impression , I congratulated Mr. Micawber on the treasure he possessed . 
Mr. Micawber extended his hand to each of us in succession , and then covered his face with his pocket-handkerchief , which I think had more snuff upon it than he was aware of . 
He then returned to the punch , in the highest state of exhilaration . 
He was full of eloquence . 
He gave us to understand that in our children we lived again , and that , under the pressure of pecuniary difficulties , any accession to their number was doubly welcome . 
He said that Mrs. Micawber had latterly had her doubts on this point , but that he had dispelled them , and reassured her . 
As to her family , they were totally unworthy of her , and their sentiments were utterly indifferent to him , and they might -- I quote his own expression -- go to the Devil . 
Mr. Micawber then delivered a warm eulogy on Traddles . 
He said Traddles 's was a character , to the steady virtues of which he -LRB- Mr. Micawber -RRB- could lay no claim , but which , he thanked Heaven , he could admire . 
Mr. Micawber pledged her . 
-- '' Mr. Micawber took an early opportunity , after that , of hinting , with the utmost delicacy and ceremony , at the state of myaffections . 
Nothing but the serious assurance of his friend Copperfield to the contrary , he observed , could deprive him of the impression that his friend Copperfield loved and was beloved . 
which so excited and gratified Mr. Micawber , that he ran with a glass of punch into my bed-room , in order that Mrs. Micawber might drink D. , who drank it with enthusiasm , crying from within , in a shrill voice , `` Hear , hear ! 
Our conversation , afterwards , took a more worldly turn ; Mr. Micawber telling us that he found Camden Town inconvenient , and that the first thing he contemplated doing , when the advertisement should have been the cause of something satisfactory turning up , was to move . 
Mr. Micawber told us , that when he heard her sing the first one , on the first occasion of his seeing her beneath the parental roof , she had ` attracted ' his attention in an extraordinary degree ; but that when it came to . 
Little Tafflin , he had resolved to win that woman or perish in the attempt . 
Mr. Micawber took the opportunity of Traddles putting on his great coat , to slip a letter into my hand , with a whispered request that I would read it at my leisure . 
I also took the opportunity of my holding a candle over the bannisters to light them down , when Mr. Micawber was going first , leading Mrs. Micawber , and Traddles was following with the cap , to detain Traddles for a moment on the top of the stairs . 
`` Traddles , '' said I , `` Mr. Micawber do n't mean any harm , poor fellow ; but , if I were you , I would n't lend him anything . '' 
That was Mr. Micawber 's expression . 
''' Mr. Micawber looking up at this juncture to where we were standing , I had only time to repeat my caution . 
But I was much afraid , when I observed the good-natured manner in which he went down with the cap in his hand , and gave Mrs. Micawber his arm , that he would be carried into the Money Market neck and heels . 
I returned to my fireside , and was musing , half gravely and half laughing , on the character of Mr. Micawber and the old relations between us , when I heard a quick step ascending the stairs . 
I gave him the best idea I could , in a few words , of Mr. Micawber . 
He laughed heartily at my feeble portrait of that gentleman , and said he was a man to know , and he must know him . 
I was undressing in my own room , when Mr. Micawber 's letter tumbled on the floor . 
I am not sure whether I have mentioned that , when Mr. Micawber was at any particularly desperate crisis , he used a sort of legal phraseology : which he seemed to think equivalent to winding up his affairs . 
I knew enough of Mr. Micawber by this time , to foresee that hemight be expected to recover the blow ; but my night 's rest was sorely distressed by thoughts of Traddles , and of the curate 's daughter , who was one of ten , down in Devonshire , and who was such a dear girl , and who would wait for Traddles -LRB- ominous praise ! -RRB- 
I felt the greatest admiration for the virtues of this young lady ; and , honestly with the view of doing my best to prevent the good-nature of Traddles from being imposed upon , to the detriment of their joint prospects in life , inquired how Mr. Micawber was ? 
That condition was , that he should make a solemn resolution to grant to more loans of his name , or anything else , to Mr. Micawber . 
I have no doubt Mr. Micawber would have paid it if he could , but he could not . 
One thing I ought to mention , which I like very much in Mr. Micawber , Copperfield . 
I hardly know which was the better pleased , Traddles or I. `` It really , '' said Traddles , suddenly , taking a letter out of his pocket , and giving it to me , `` put Mr. Micawber quite out of my head ! '' 
The letter -LRB- Mr. Micawber never missed any possible opportunity of writing a letter -RRB- was addressed to me , `` By the kindness of T. Traddles , Esquire , of the Inner Temple . '' 
I was glad to find that Mr. Micawber had got rid of his dust and ashes , and that something really had turned up at last . 
Learning from Traddles that the invitation referred to the evening then wearing away , I expressed my readiness to do honor to it ; and we went off together to the lodging which Mr. Micawber occupied as Mr. Mortimer , and which was situated near the top of the Gray 's Inn Road . 
The resources of this lodging were so limited , that we found the twins , now some eight or nine years old , reposing in a turn-up bedstead in the family sitting-room , where Mr. Micawber had prepared , in a wash-hand-stand jug , what he called `` a Brew '' of the agreeable beverage for which he was famous . 
I also became once more known to his sister , Miss Micawber , in whom , as Mr. Micawber told us , `` her mother renewed her youth , like the Phoenix . '' 
`` My dear Copperfield , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` yourself and Mr. Traddles find us on the brink of migration , and will excuse any little discomforts incidental to that position . '' 
My family may consider it banishment , if they please ; but I am a wife and mother , and I never will desert Mr. Micawber . '' 
I read the service over with a flat-candle on the previous night , and the conclusion I derived from it was , that I never could desert Mr. Micawber . 
`` My dear , '' said Mr. Micawber , a little impatiently , `` I am not conscious that you are expected to do any thing of the sort . '' 
`` I am aware , my dear Mr. Copperfield , '' pursued Mrs. Micawber , `` that I am now about to cast my lot among strangers ; and I am also aware that the various members of my family , to whom Mr. Micawber has written in the most gentlemanly terms , announcing that fact , have not taken the least notice of Mr. Micawber 's communication . 
`` It may be a sacrifice , '' said Mrs. Micawber , `` to immure one 's - self in a Cathedral town ; but surely , Mr. Copperfield , if it is a sacrifice in me , it is much more a sacrifice in a man of Mr. Micawber 's abilities . '' 
Mr. Micawber , who had been helping us all , out of the wash-hand-stand jug , replied : `` To Canterbury . 
I stared at Mr. Micawber , who greatly enjoyed my surprise . 
`` I am bound to state to you , '' he said , with an official air , `` that the business habits , and the prudent suggestions , of Mrs. Micawber , have in a great measure conduced to this result . 
Of my friend Heep , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` who is a man of remarkable shrewdness , I desire to speak with all possible respect . 
Such address and intelligence as I chance to possess , '' said Mr. Micawber , boastfully friend Heep 's service . 
I sat all the while , amazed by Mr. Micawber 's disclosure , and wondering what it meant ; until Mrs. Micawber resumed the thread of the discourse , and claimed my attention . 
`` What I particularly request Mr. Micawber to be careful of , is , '' said Mrs. Micawber , `` that he does not , my dear Mr. Copperfield , in applying himself to this subordinate branch of the law , place it out of his power to rise , ultimately , to the top of the tree . 
I am convinced that Mr. Micawber , giving his mind to a profession so adapted to his fertile resources , and his flow of language , mustdistinguish himself . 
Does an individual place himself beyond the pale of those preferments by entering on such an office as Mr. Micawber has accepted ? '' 
`` My dear , '' observed Mr. Micawber -- but glancing inquisitively at Traddles , too ; `` we have time enough before us , for the consideration of those questions . '' 
`` Micawber , '' she returned , `` no ! 
Mr. Micawber coughed , and drank his punch with an air of exceeding satisfaction -- still glancing at Traddles , as if he desired to have his opinion . 
`` -- Is , '' said Traddles , `` that this branch of the law , even if Mr. Micawber were a regular solicitor -- '' `` Exactly so , '' returned Mrs. Micawber . 
Only a barrister is eligible for such preferments ; and Mr. Micawber could not be a barrister , without being entered at an inn of court as a student , for five years . '' 
`` Do I understand , my dear Mr. Traddles , that , at the expiration of that period , Mr. Micawber would be eligible as a Judge or Chancellor ? '' 
`` He would be eligible , '' returned Traddles , with a strong emphasis on that word . '' 
If such is the case , and Mr. Micawber forfeits no privilege by entering on these duties , my anxiety is set at rest . 
I speak , '' said Mrs. Micawber , `` as a female , necessarily ; but I have always been of opinion that Mr. Micawber possesses what I have heard my papa call , when I lived at home , the judicial mind ; and I hope Mr. Micawber is now entering on a field where that mind will develope itself , and take a commanding station . '' 
I quite believe that Mr. Micawber saw himself , in his judicial mind 's eye , on the woolsack . 
He passed his hand complacently over his bald head , and said with ostentatious resignation : `` My dear , we will not anticipate the decrees of fortune . 
If I am reserved to wear a wig , I am at least prepared , externally , '' in allusion to his baldness , `` for that distinction . 
I do not , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` regret my hair , and I may have been deprived of it for a specific purpose . 
`` Yes , '' said Mr. Micawber . 
When we were nearly come to the last round of the punch , I addressed myself to Traddles , and reminded him that we must not separate , without wishing our friends health , happiness , and success in their new career . 
I begged Mr. Micawber to fill us bumpers , and proposed the toast in due form : shaking hands with him across the table , and kissing Mrs. Micawber , to commemorate that eventful occasion . 
`` My dear Copperfield , '' said Mr. Micawber , rising with one of his thumbs in each of his waistcoat pockets , `` the companion of my youth : if I may be allowed the expression -- and my esteemed friend Traddles : if I may be permitted to call him so -- will allow me , on the part of Mrs. Micawber , myself , and our offspring , to thank them in the warmest and most uncompromising terms for their good wishes . 
It may be expected that on the eve of a migration which will consign us to a perfectly new existence , '' Mr. Micawber spoke as if they were going five hundred thousand miles , `` I should offer a few valedictory remarks to two such friends as I see before me . 
On Monday next , on the arrival of the four o'clock afternoon coach at Canterbury , my foot will be on my native heath -- my name , Micawber ! '' 
Mr. Micawber resumed his seat on the close of these remarks , and drank two glasses of punch in grave succession . 
The amount of the first obligation , '' here Mr. Micawber carefully referred to papers , `` was , I believe , twenty-three , four , nine and a half ; of the second , according to my entry of that transaction , eighteen , six , two . 
`` To leave this metropolis , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` and my friend Mr. Thomas Traddles , without acquitting myself of the pecuniary part of this obligation , would weigh upon my mind to an insupportable extent . 
With this introduction -LRB- which greatly affected him -RRB- , Mr. Micawber placed his I. O. U. in the hands of Traddles , and said he wished him well in every relation of life . 
I am persuaded , not only that this was quite the same to Mr. Micawber as paying the money , but that Traddles himself hardly knew the difference until he had had time to think about it . 
Mr. Micawber walked so erect before his fellow man , on the strength of this virtuous action , that his chest looked half as broad again when he lighted us down stairs . 
We parted with great heartiness on both sides ; and when I had seen Traddles to his own door , and was going home alone , I thought , among the other odd and contradictory things I mused upon , that , slippery as Mr. Micawber was , I was probably indebted to some compassionate recollection he retained of me as his boy-lodger , for never having been asked by him for money . 
I certainly should not have had the moral courage to refuse it ; and I have no doubt he knew that -LRB- to his credit be it written -RRB- , quite as well as I did . 
I signed myself , hers distractedly ; and I could n't help feeling , when I read this composition over , before sending it by a porter , that it was something in the style of Mr. Micawber . 
Arrived at Mr. Wickfield 's house , I found , in the little lower-room on the ground floor , where Uriah Heep had been of old accustomed to sit , Mr. Micawber plying his pen with great assiduity . 
Mr. Micawber was extremely glad to see me , but a little confused too . 
How do you like the law , Mr. Micawber ? '' 
Even in our professional correspondence , '' said Mr. Micawber , glancing at some letters he was writing , `` the mind is not at liberty to soar to any exalted form of expression . 
A great pursuit ! '' 
He then told me that he had become the tenant of Uriah Heep 's old house ; and that Mrs. Micawber would be delighted to receive me , once more , under her own roof . 
`` It is humble , '' said Mr. Micawber , '' -- to quote a favourite expression of my friend Heep ; but it may prove the stepping-stone to more ambitious domiciliary accommodation . '' 
said Mr. Micawber , with an air of constraint , `` I speak of my friend Heep as I have experience . '' 
`` You are very obliging , my dear Copperfield , '' said Mr. Micawber ; and hummed a tune . 
`` Not much , '' said Mr. Micawber , slightingly . 
returned Mr. Micawber , after some uneasy evolutions on his stool , `` allow me to offer a remark ! 
On one side of this line , '' said Mr. Micawber , representing it on the desk with the office ruler , `` is the whole range of the human intellect , with a trifling exception ; on the other , isthat exception ; that is to say , the affairs of Messrs. Wickfield and Heep , with all belonging and appertaining thereunto . 
Though I saw an uneasy change in Mr. Micawber , which sat tightly on him , as if his new duties were a misfit , I felt I had no right to be offended . 
My telling him so , appeared to relieve him ; and he shook hands with me . 
`` I am charmed , Copperfield , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` let me assure you , with Miss Wickfield . 
Upon my honour , '' said Mr. Micawber , indefinitely kissing his hand and bowing with his genteelest air , `` I do Homage to Miss Wickfield ! 
`` I am glad of that , at least , '' said I. `` If you had not assured us , my dear Copperfield , on the occasion of that agreeable afternoon we had the happiness of passing with you , that D was your favourite letter , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` I should unquestionably have supposed that A had been so . '' 
I never had this mysterious impression more strongly in my life , than before he uttered those words . 
I took my leave of Mr. Micawber , for the time , charging him with my best remembrances to all at home . 
As I left him , resuming his stool and his pen , and rolling his head in his stock , to get it into easier writing order , I clearly perceived that there was something interposed between him and me , since he had come into his new functions which prevented our getting at each other as we used to do , and quite altered the character of our intercourse . 
He received me in his usual fawning way , and pretended not to have heard of my arrival from Mr. Micawber ; a pretence I took the liberty of disbelieving . 
He accompanied me into Mr. Wickfield 's room , which was the shadow of its former self -- having been divested of a variety of convenicnces , for the accommodation of the new partner -- and stood before the fire , warming his back , and shaving his chin with his bony hand , while Mr. Wickfield and I exchanged greetings . 
While the visit at the Doctor 's was still in progress , I observed that the postman brought two or three letters every morning for Uriah Heep , who remained at Highgate until the rest went back , it being a leisure time ; and that these were always directed in a business-like manner by Mr. Micawber , who now assumed a round legal hand . 
I was glad to infer , from these slight premises , that Mr. Micawber was doing well ; and consequently was much surprised to receive , about this time , the following letter from his amiable wife . 
But my feelings as a wife and mother require relief ; and as I do not wish to consult my family -LRB- already obnoxious to the feelings of Mr. Micawber -RRB- , I know no one of whom I can better ask advice than my friend and former lodger . 
`` You may be aware , my dear Mr. Copperfield , that between myself and Mr. Micawber -LRB- whom I will never desert -RRB- , there has always been preserved a spirit of mutual confidence . 
Mr. Micawber may have occasionally given a bill without consulting me , or he may have misled me as to the period when that obligation would become due . 
But , in general , Mr. Micawber has had no secrets from the bosom of affection -- I allude to his wife -- and has invariably , on our retirement to rest , recalled the events of the day . 
`` You will picture to yourself , my dear Mr. Copperfield , what the poignancy of my feelings must be , when I inform you that Mr. Micawber is entirely changed . 
He is reserved . 
He is secret . 
His life is a mystery to the partner of his joys and sorrows -- I again allude to his wife -- and if I should assure you that beyond knowing that it is passed from morning to night at the office , I now know less of it than I do of the man in the south , connected with whose mouth the thoughtless children repeat an idle tale respecting cold plum porridge , I should adopt a popular fallacy to express an actual fact . 
Mr. Micawber is morose . 
He is severe . 
He is estranged from our eldest son and daughter , he has no pride in his twins , he looks with an eye of coldness even on the unoffending stranger who last became a member of our circle . 
I did not feel justified in giving a wife of Mrs. Micawber 's experience any other recommendation , than that she should try to reclaim Mr. Micawber by patience and kindness -LRB- as I knew she would in any case -RRB- ; but the letter set me thinking about him very much . 
Making due allowance for Mr. Micawber 's lofty style of composition , and for the extraordinary relish with which he sat down and wrote long letters on all possible and impossible occasions , I still believed that something important lay hidden at the bottom of this roundabout communication . 
I have received a very singular letter , Traddles , from Mr. Micawber . '' 
I watched him into the heart of Mr. Micawber 's letter , and returned the elevation of eyebrows with which he said ``` Wielding the thunderbolt , or directing the devouring and avenging flame ! ' 
`` Though harrowing to myself to mention , the alienation of Mr. Micawber -LRB- formerly so domesticated -RRB- from his wife and family , is the cause of my addressing my unhappy appeal to Mr. Traddles , and soliciting his best indulgence . 
Mr. T. can form no adequate idea of the change in Mr. Micawber 's conduct , of his wildness , of his violence . 
Mr. T. will not require me to depiet my feelings , when I inform him that I have become accustomed to hear Mr. Micawber assert that he has sold himself to the D. Mystery and secresy have long been his principal characteristic , have long replaced unlimited confidence . 
The slightest provocation , even being asked if there is anything he would prefer for dinner , causes him to express a wish for a separation . 
Last night , on being childishly solicited for twopence , to buy ` lemon-stunners -- a local sweetmeat -- he presented an oyster-knife at the twins ! 
Mr. Micawber is going to London . 
Though he studiously concealed his hand , this morning before breakfast , in writing the direction-card which he attached to the little brown valise of happier days , the eagleglance of matrimonial anxiety detected d , o , n , distinctly traced . 
Dare I ask Mr. T. to endeavour to step in between Mr. Micawber and his agonised family ? 
In any case , he will have the benevolence to consider this communication strictly private , and on no account whatever to be alluded to , however distantly , in the presence of Mr. Micawber . 
he was now alluding to Mrs. Micawber 's letter , and we were standing side by side comparing the two ; `` it will be a charity to write to her , at all events , and tell her that we will not fail to see Mr. Micawber . '' 
I had often thought of the Micawbers , but chiefly to wonder what `` pecuniary liabilities '' they were establishing in Canterbury , and to recall how shy Mr. Micawber was of me when he became clerk to Uriah Heep . 
We took my aunt into our counsels in the afternoon ; but our only decided conclusion was , that we would be very punctual in keeping Mr. Micawber 's appointment . 
Although we appeared at the stipulated place a quarter of an hour before the time , we found Mr. Micawber already there . 
He was standing with his arms folded , over against the wall , looking at the spikes on the top , with a sentimental expression , as if they were the interlacing boughs of trees that had shaded him in his youth . 
When we accosted him , his manner was something more confused , and something less genteel , than of yore . 
He had relinquished his legal suit of black for the purposes of this excursion , and wore the old surtout and tights , but not quite with the old air . 
He gradually picked up more and more of it as we conversed with him ; but , his very eye-glass seemed to hang less easily , and his shirt collar , though still of the old formidable dimensions , rather drooped . 
said Mr. Micawber , after the first salutations , `` you are friends in need , and friends indeed . 
We acknowledged his politeness , and made suitable replies . 
He then directed our attention to the wall , and was beginning `` I assure you , gentlemen , '' when I ventured to object to that ceremonious form of address , and to beg that he would speak to us in the old way . 
`` My dear Copperfield , '' he returned , pressing my hand , `` your cordiality overpowers me . 
`` Thank you , '' returned Mr. Micawber whose face clouded at this reference , `` she is but so-so . 
And this , '' said Mr. Micawber , nodding his head sorrowfully , `` is the Bench ! 
Gentlemen , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` when the shadow of that iron-work on the summit of the brick structure has been reflected on the gravel of the Parade , I have seen my children thread the mazes of the intricate pattern , avoiding the dark marks . 
`` We have all got on in life since then , Mr. Micawber , '' said I. `` Mr. Copperfield , '' returned Mr. Micawber , bitterly , `` when I was an inmate of that retreat I could look my fellow-man in the face , and punch his head if he offended me . 
Turning from the building in a downeast manner , Mr. Micawber accepted my proffere arm on one side , and the proffered arm of Traddles on the other , and walked away between us . 
`` There are some landmarks , '' observed Mr. Micawber , lookinf fondly back over his shoulder , `` on the road to the tomb , which , but for the impiety of the aspiration , a man would wish never to have passed . 
`` Oh , you are in low spirits , Mr. Micawber , '' said Traddles . 
`` I am , sir , '' interposed Mr. Micawber . 
Mr. Micawber answered not a word . 
`` How is our friend Heep , Mr. Micawber ? '' 
`` My dear Copperfield , '' returned Mr. Micawber , bursting into a state of much excitement , and turning pale , `` if you ask after my employer as yourfriend , I am sorry for it ; if you ask after him as myfriend , I sardonically smile at it . 
In whatever capacity you ask after my employer , I beg , without offence to you , to limit my reply to this -- that whatever his state of health may be , his appearance is foxy : not to say diabolical . 
I expressed my regret for having innocently touched upon a theme that roused him so much . 
`` Miss Wickfield , '' said Mr. Micawber , now turning red , `` is , as she always is , a pattern , and a bright example . 
-- Take me , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` down a turning , for , upon my soul , in my present state of mind I am not equal to this ! '' 
We wheeled him off into a narrow street , where he took out his pocket-handkerchief , and stood with his back to a wall . 
If I looked as gravely at him as Traddles did , he must have found our company by no means inspiriting . 
`` It is my fate , '' said Mr. Micawber , unfeignedly sobbing , but doing even that , with a shadow of the old expression of doing something genteel ; `` it is my fate , gentlemen , that the finer feelings of our nature have become reproaches to me . 
Without attending to this invocation , we stood by , until he put up his pocket-handkerchief , pulled up his shirt-collar , and , to delude any person in the neighbourhood who might have been observing him , hummed a tune with his hat very much on on side . 
I then mentioned -- not knowing what might be lost , if we lost sight of him yet -- that it would give me great pleasure to introduce him to my aunt , if he would ride out to Highgate , where a bed was at his service . 
`` You shall make us a glass of your own punch , Mr. Micawber , '' said I , `` and forget whatever you have on your mind , in pleasanter reminiscences . '' 
`` Or , if confiding anything to friends will be more likely to relieve you , you shall impart it to us , Mr. Micawber , '' said Traddles , prudently . 
`` Gentlemen , '' returned Mr. Micawber , `` do with me as you will ! 
Mr. Micawber was for the most part plunged into deep gloom . 
He occasionally made an attempt to smarten himself , and hum the fag-end of a tune ; but his relapses into profound melancholy were only made the more impressive by the mockery of a hat exceedingly on one side , and a shirt-collar pulled up to his eyes . 
My aunt presented herself on being sent for , and welcomed Mr. Micawber with gracious cordiality . 
Mr. Micawber kissed her hand , retired to the window , and pulling out his pocket-handkerchief , had a mental wrestle with himself . 
He was by nature so exceedingly compassionate of anyone who seemed to be ill at ease , and was so quick to find any such person out , that he shook hands with Mr. Micawber , at least half-a-dozen times in five minutes . 
To Mr. Micawber , in his trouble , this warmth , on the part of a stranger , was so extremely touching , that he could only say , on the occasion of each successive shake , `` My dear sir , you overpower me ! '' 
`` The friendliness of this gentleman , '' said Mr. Micawber to my aunt , `` if you will allow me , ma ` am , to cull a figure of speech from the vocabulary of our coarser national sports -- floors me . 
`` That I am conviced of , '' said Mr. Micawber . 
for Mr. Dick was shaking hands with him again ; `` I am deeply sensible of your cordiality ! '' 
`` Indifferent , my dear sir , '' returned Mr. Micawber , sighing . 
Mr. Micawber was quite overcome by these friendly words , and by finding Mr. Dick 's hand aggin within his own . 
At another time I should have been amused by this ; but I felt that we were all constrained and uneasy , and I watched Mr. Micawber so anxiously , in his vacillations between an evident disposition to reveal something , and a counter-disposition to reveal nothing , that I was in a perfect fever . 
Traddles , sitting on the edge of his chair , with his eyes wide open , and his hair more emphatically erect than ever , stared by turns at the ground and at Mr. Micawber , without so much as attempting to put in a word . 
`` You are a very old friend of my nephew 's , Mr. Micawber , '' said my aunt . 
`` Madam , '' returned Mr. Micawber , `` I wish I had had the honor of knowing you at an earlier period . 
Mr. Micawber inclined his head . 
`` They are as well , ma'am , '' he desperately observed after a pause , `` as Aliens and Outcasts can ever hope to be . '' 
`` The subsistence of my family , ma'am , '' returned Mr. Micawber , `` trembles in the balance . 
My empoyer -- '' Here Mr. Micawber provokingly left off ; and began to peel the lemons that had been under my directions set before him , together with all the other appliances he used in making punch . 
`` My good sir , '' returned Mr. Micawber , `` you recall me . 
Mr. Micawber , with a random but expressive flourish of his knife , signified that these performances might be expected to take place after he was no more ; then resumed his peeling with a desperate air . 
My aunt leaned her elbow on the little round table that she usually kept beside her , and eyed him attentively . 
Notwithstanding the aversion with which I regarded the idea of entrapping him into any disclosure he was not prepared to make voluntarily , I should have taken him up at this point , but for the strange proceedings in which I saw him engaged ; whereof his putting the lemon-peel into the kettle , the sugar into the snuffertray , the spirit into the empty jug , and confidently attempting to pour boiling water out of a candlestick , were among the most remarkable . 
I saw that a crisis was at hand , and it came . 
He clattered all his means and implements together , rose from his chair , pulled out his pocket-hand-kerchief , and burst into tears . 
`` My dear Copperfield , '' said Mr. Micawber , behind his handkerchief , `` this is an occupation , of all others , requiring an untrobled mind , and self-respect . 
`` Mr. Micawber , '' said I , `` what is the matter ? 
repeated Mr. Micawber ; and all he had reserved came breaking out of him . 
said Mr. Micawber , violently gesticulating with his pocket-handkerchief , and fairly striking out from time to time with both arms , as if he were swimming under superhuman difficulties . 
Give me back my wife , give me back my family , substitute Micawber for the petty wretch who walks about in the boots at present on my feet , and call upon me to swallow a sword to-morrow , and I 'll do it . 
I tried to calm him , that we might come to something rational ; but he got hotter and hotter , and would n't hear a word . 
`` I 'll put my hand in no man 's hand , '' said Mr. Micawber , gasping , puffing and sobbing , to that degree that he was like a man fighting with cold water , `` until I have -- blown to fragments -- the -- a -- detestable -- serpent -- Heep ! 
I really had some fear of Mr. Micawber 's dying onthe spot . 
The manner in which he struggled through these inarticulate sentences , and , whenever he found himself getting near the name of Heep , fought his way on to it , dashed at it in a fainting state , and brought it out with a vehemence little less than marvellous , was frightful ; but now , when he sank into a chair , steaming , and looked at us , with every possible color in his face that had no business there , and an endless procession of lumps following one another in hot haste up his throat , whence they seemed to shoot into his forehead , he had the appearance of being in the last extremity . 
With this last repetition of the magic word that had kept him going at all , and in which he surpassed all his previous efforts , Mr. Micawber rushed out of the house ; leaving us in a state of excitment , hope , and wonder , that reduce us to a condition little better than his own . 
But even then his passion for writing letters was too strong to be resisted ; for while we were yet in the height of our excitement , hope , and wonder , the following pastoral note was brought to me from a neighbouring tavern , at which he had called to write it : -- `` Most secret and confidential . 
It was the second in Mr. Micawber 's week of suspense . 
Whenthe time Mr. Micawber had appointed so mysteriously , was within four-and-twenty hours of being come , my aunt and I consulted how we should proceed ; for my aunt was very unwilling to leave Dora . 
We were disposed , notwithstanding Mr. Micawber 's stipulation for my aunt 's attendance , to arrange that she should stay at home , and be represented by Mr. Dick and me . 
At the hotel where Mr. Micawber had requested us to await him , which we got into , with some trouble , in the middle of the night , I found a letter , importing that he would appear in the morning punctually at halfpast nine . 
As it approached nearer and nearer to half-past nine o'clock , our restless expectation of Mr. Micawber increased . 
At last we made no more pretence of attending to the meal , which , except with Mr. Dick , had been a mere form from the first ; but my aunt walked up and down the room , Traddles sat upon the sofa affecting to read the paper with his eyes on the ceiling ; and I looked out of the window to give early notice of Mr. Micawber 's coming . 
Nor had I long to watch , for , at the first chime of the half hour , he appeared in the street . 
Mr. Dick , disturbed by these formidable appearances , but feeling it necessary to imitate them , pulled his hat , with both hands , as firmly over his ears as he possibly could ; and instantly took it off again , to welcome Mr. Micawber . 
`` Gentlemen , and madam , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` good morning ! 
My dear sir , '' to Mr. Dick , who shook hands with him violently , `` you are extremely good . '' 
cried Mr. Micawber , stopping him on his way to the bell ; `` appetite and myself , Mr. Dixon , have long been strangers . '' 
Mr. Dixon was so pleased with his new name , and appeared to think it so very obliging in Mr. Micawber to confer it upon him , that he shook hands with him again , and laughed rather childishly . 
`` Now , sir , '' said my aunt to Mr. Micawber , as she put on her gloves , `` we are ready for Mount Vesuvius , or anything else , as soon as youplease . '' 
`` Madam , '' returned Mr. Micawber , `` I trust you will shortly witness an eruption . 
`` Mr. Micawber has consulted me , in reference to what he has in contemplation ; and I have advised him to the best of my judgment . '' 
`` Unless I deceive myself , Mr. Traddles , '' pursued Mr. Micawber , `` what I contemplate is a disclosure of an important nature . '' 
`` Perhaps , under such circumstances , madam and gentlemen , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` you will do me the favor to submit yourselves , for the moment , to the direction of one , who , however unworthy to be regarded in any other light but as a Waif and Stray upon the shore of human nature , is still your fellow man , though crushed out of his original form by individual errors , and the accumulative force of a combination of circumstances ? '' 
`` We have perfect confidence in you , Mr. Micawber , '' said I , `` and will do what you please . '' 
`` Mr. Copperfield , '' returned Mr. Micawber , `` your confidence is not , at the existing juncture , ill-bestowed . 
My aunt and I looked at Traddles , who nodded his approval . 
`` I have no more , '' observed Mr. Micawber , `` to say at present . '' 
With which , to my infinite surprise , he included us all in a comprehensive bow , and disappeared ; his manner being extremely distant , and his face extremely pale . 
Traddles only smiled , and shook his head -LRB- with his hair standing upright on the top of it -RRB- , when I looked to him for an explanation ; so I took out my watch , and , as a last resource , counted off the five minutes . 
We found Mr. Micawber at his desk , in the turret office on the ground floor , either writing , or pretending to write , hard . 
The large office-ruler was stuck into his waistcoat , and was not so well concealed but that a foot or more of that instrument protruded from his bosom , like a new kind of shirt-frill . 
As it appeared to me that I was expected to speak , I said aloud : `` How do you do , Mr. Micawber ? '' 
`` Mr. Copperfield , '' said Mr. Micawber , gravely , `` I hope I see you well ? '' 
said I. `` Mr. Wickfield is unwell in bed , sir , of a rheumatic fever , '' he returned ; `` but Miss Wickfield , I have no doubt , will be happy to see old friends . 
Will you walk in , sir ? '' 
Micawber , tell 'em to let Miss Agnes know -- and mother . 
Not but what myself and Micawber have our hands pretty full , in general , on account of Mr. Wickfield 's being hardly fit for any occupation , sir . 
She was not quite so self-possessed as usual , I thought ; and had evidently undergone anxiety and fatigue . 
In the meanwhile , some slight sign passed between Mr. Micawber and Traddles ; and Traddles , unobserved except by me , went out . 
`` Do n't wait , Micawber , '' said Uriah . 
Mr. Micawber , with his hand upon the ruler in his breast , stood erect before the door , most unmistakeably contemplating one of his fellow-men , and that man his employer . 
`` Micawber ! 
replied the immovable Mr. Micawber . 
`` Because I -- in short choose , '' replied Mr. Micawber , with a brust . 
He looked at Mr. Micawber attentively , with his whole face breathing short and quick in every feature . 
`` You are a dissipated fellow , as all the world knows , '' he said , with an effort at a smile , `` and I am afraid you 'll oblige me to get rid of you . 
`` If there is a scoundrel on this earth , '' said Mr. Micawber , suddenly breaking out again with the utmost vehemence , `` with whom I have already talked too much , that scoundrel 's name is -- Heep ! '' 
Micawber , you be off . 
`` Mr. Micawber , '' said I , `` there is a sudden change in this fellow , in more respects than the extraordinary one of his speaking the truth in one particular , which assures me that he is brought to bay . 
Deal with him as he deserves ! '' 
Think twice , you , Micawber , if you do n't want to be crushed . 
We will refer that question , if you please , to Mr. Micawber . '' 
If it had been me , I should n't have wondered ; for I do n't make myself out a gentleman -LRB- though I never was in the streets either , as you were , according to Micawber -RRB- , but being you ! 
Mr. What 's - your-name , you were going to refer some question to Micawber . 
Mr. Micawber , whose impetuosity I had restrained thus far with the greatest difficulty , and who had repeatedly interposed with the first syllable of Scoun-drel ! 
Mr. Micawber , without hearing her , went on . 
``` In appearing before you to denounce probably the most consummate Villain that has ever existed , ''' Mr. Micawber , without looking off the letter , pointed the ruler , like a ghostly truncheon , at Uriah Heep , ``` I ask no consideration for myself . 
''' The relish with which Mr. Micawber described himself , as a prey to these dismal calamities , was only to be equalled by the emphasis with which he read his letter ; and the kind of homage he rendered to it with a roll of his head , when he thought he had hit a sentence very hard indeed . 
Mr. Micawber , with a perfect miracle of dexterity or luck , caught his advancing kuuckles with the ruler , and disabled his right hand . 
`` Approach me again , you -- you -- you Heepof infamy , '' gasped Mr. Micawber , `` and if your head is human , I 'll break it . 
I think I never saw anything more ridiculous -- I was sensible of it , even at the time -- than Mr. Micawber making broad-sword guards with the ruler , and crying `` Come on ! '' 
while Traddles and I pushed him back into a corner , from which , as often as we got him into it , he persisted in emerging again . 
His enemy , muttering to himself , after wringing his wounded hand for some time , slowly drew off his neck-kerchief and bound it up ; then , held it in his other hand , and sat upon his table with his sullen face looking down . 
Mr. Micawber , when he was sufficiently cool , proceeded with his letter . 
Mr. Micawber 's enjoyment of his epistolary powers , in describing this unfortunate state of things , really seemed to outweigh any pain or anxiety that the reality could have caused him . 
''' Mr. Micawber was so very much struck by this happy rounding off with a quotation , that he indulged himself , and us , with a second reading of the sentence , under pretence of having lost his place . 
``` It is not my intention , ''' he continued , reading on , ``` to enter on a detailed list , within the compass of the present epistle -LRB- though it is ready elsewhere -RRB- , of the various malpractices of a minor nature , affecting the individual whom I have denominated Mr. W. , to which I have been a tacitly consenting party . 
``` First , ''' said Mr. Micawber . 
`` Ask -- Heep -- Mr. Traddles , who lived in his house after him , '' said Mr. Micawber , breaking off from the letter ; `` will you ? '' 
`` Ask -- Heep -- if he ever kept a pocket-book in that house , '' said Mr. Micawber ; `` will you ? '' 
I saw Uriah 's lank hand stop , involuntarily , in the scraping of his chin . 
`` Or ask him , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` if he ever burnt one there . 
The triumphant flourish with which Mr. Micawber delivered himself of these words , had a powerful effect in alarming the mother ; who cried out , in much agitation : `` Ury , Ury ! 
`` Mother ! '' 
Umble ! '' 
Mr. Micawber , genteelly adjusting his chin in his cravat , presently proceeded with his composition . 
`` We will endeavour to provide something that WILLdo , and do for you finally , sir , very shortly , '' replied Mr. Micawber . 
To wit , in manner following , that is to say : ''' Again , Mr. Micawber had a relish in this formal piling up of words , which , however ludicrously displayed in his case , was , I must say , not at all peculiar to him . 
Mr. Micawber read on , almost smacking his lips : ``` To wit , in manner following , that is to say . 
``` And I have the document , ''' Mr. Micawber read again , looking about as if it were the text of a sermon , ``` in my possession , ' -- that is to say , I had , early this morning , when this was written , but have since relinquished it to Mr. Traddles . '' 
Mr. Micawber promptly resumed his letter , only too glad to revert to a performance with which he was so highly satisfied . 
Bankrupt , as he believed , alike in circumstances , in all other hope , and in honor , his sole reliance was upon the monster in the grab of man , ''' -- Mr. Micawber made a good deal of this , as a new turn of expression , -- ``` who , by making himself necessary to him , had achieved his destruction . 
''' I whispered a few words to Agnes , who was weeping , half joyfully , half-sorrowfully , at my side ; and there was a movement among us , as if Mr. Micawber had finished . 
He said , with exceeding gravity , `` Pardon me , '' and proceeded , with a mixture of the lowest spirits and the most intense enjoyment , to the peroration of his letter . 
''' Much affected , but still intensely enjoying himself , Mr. Micawber folded up his letter , and handed it with a bow to my aunt , as something she might like to keep . 
A hasty suspicion seemed to strike Uriah ; and , with a glance at Mr. Micawber , he went to it , and threw the doors clanking open . 
`` Where are the books ! '' 
Mr. Micawber tapped himself with the ruler . 
-- Micawber , you old bully , I 'll pay you ! '' 
Mr. Micawber , supremely defiant of him and his extended finger , and making a great deal of his chest until he had slunk out at the door , then addressed himself to me , and proffered me the satisfaction of `` witnessing the re-establishment of mutual confidence between himself and Mrs. Micawber . '' 
After which , he invited the company generally to the contemplation of that affecting spectacle . 
`` The veil that has long been interposed between Mrs. Micawber and myself , is now withdrawn , '' said Mr. Micawber ; `` and my children and the Author of their Being can once more come in contact on equal terms . '' 
As we were all very grateful to him , and all desirous to show that we were , as well as the hurry and disorder of our spirits would permit , I dare say we should all have gone , but that it was necessary for Agnes to return to her father , as yet unable to bear more than the dawn of hope ; and for some one else to hold Uriah in safe keeping . 
So , Traddles remained for the latter purpose , to be presently relieved by Mr. Dick ; and Mr. Dick , my aunt , and I , went home with Mr. Micawber . 
As I parted hurriedly from the dear girl to whom I owed so much , and thought from what she had been saved , perhaps , that morning -- her better resolution notwithstanding -- I felt devoutly thankful for the miseries of my younger days which had brought me to the knowledge of Mr. Micawber . 
His house was not far off ; and as the street-door opened into the sitting room , and he bolted in with a precipitation quite his own , we found ourselves at once in the bosom of the family . 
Mr. Micawber exclaiming , `` Emma ! 
Mrs. Micawber shrieked , and folded Mr. Micawber in her embrace . 
said Mr. Micawber . 
cried Mr. Micawber , shedding tears . 
With these expressions , Mr. Micawber placed Mrs. Micawber in a chair , and embraced the family all round ; welcoming a variety of bleak prospects , which appeared , to the best of my judgment , to be anything but welcome to them ; and calling upon them to come out into Canterbury and sing a chorus , as nothing else was left for their support . 
This , my aunt and Mr. Micawber did ; and then my aunt was introduced , and Mrs. Micawber recognised me . 
`` Excuse me , dear Mr. Copperfield , '' said the poor lady , giving me her hand , `` but I am not strong ; and the removal of the late misunderstanding between Mr. Micawber and myself was at first too much for me . '' 
`` Madam , '' replied Mr. Micawber , `` it is a true bill . '' 
`` It was my hope when I came here , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` to have got Wilkins into the Church : or perhaps I shall express my meaning more strictly , if I say the Choir . 
`` I dare say , my love , '' rejoined Mr. Micawber , `` that he means particularly well ; but I have not yet found that he carries out his meaning , in any given direction whatsoever . '' 
Master Micawber 's moroseness of aspect returned upon him again , and he demanded , with some temper , what he was to do ? 
Whether he had been born a carpenter , or a coach painter , any more than he had been born a bird ? 
Whether he could go into the next street , and open a chemist 's shop ? 
Whether he could rush to the next assizes , and proclaim himself a lawyer ? 
Whether he could come out by force at the opera , and succeed by violence ? 
Whether he could do anything , without being brought up to something ? 
My aunt mused a little while , and then said : `` Mr. Micawber , I wonder you have never turned your thoughts to emigration . '' 
`` Madam , '' returned Mr. Micawber , `` it was the dream of my youth , and the fallacious aspiration of my riper years . '' 
I am thoroughly persuaded , by the bye , that he had never thought of it in his life . 
`` Capital , madam , capital , '' urged Mr. Micawber , gloomily . 
`` That is the principal , I may say the only difficulty , my dear Mr. Copperfield , '' assented his wife . 
`` I could not receive it as a gift , '' said Mr. Micawber , full of fire and animation , `` but if a sufficient sum could be advanced , say at five per cent . 
Now , arethe circumstances of the country such , that a man of Mr. Micawber 's abilities would have a fair chance of rising in the social scale ? 
I will not say , at present , might he aspire to be Governor , or anything of that sort ; but would there be a reasonable opening for his talents to develop themselves -- that , would be amply sufficient -- and find their own expansion ? '' 
It is evident to me that Australia is the legitimate sphere of action for Mr. Micawber ! '' 
`` I entertain the conviction , my dear madam , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` that it is , under existing circumstances , the land , the only land , for myself and family ; and that something of an extraordinary nature will turn up on that shore . 
Shall I ever forget how , in a moment , he was the most sanguine of men , looking on to fortune ; or how Mrs. Micawber presently discoursed about the habits of the kangaroo ! 
Shall I ever recall that street of Canterbury on a market day , without recalling him , as he walked back with us ; expressing , in the hardy roving manner he assumed , the unsettled habits of a temporary sojourner in the land ; and looking at the bullocks , as they came by , with the eye of an Australian farmer ! 
The ground now covering all that could perish of my departed wife , I waited only for what Mr. Micawber called the `` final pulverisation of Heep , '' and for the departure of the emigrants . 
We proceeded by appointment straight to Mr. Micawber 's house ; where , and at Mr. Wickfield 's , my friend had been labouring ever since our explosive meeting . 
`` My dear madam , '' returned Mr. Micawber , `` perhaps I can not better express the conclusion at which Mrs. Micawber , your humble servant , and I may add our children , have jointly and severally arrived , than by borrowing the language of an illustrious poet , to reply that our Boat is on the shore , and our Bark is on the sea . '' 
`` Madam , you do us a great deal of honor , '' he rejoined . 
We might not , '' said Mr. Micawber , looking round the room as if it represented several hundred acres of highly-cultivated land , `` on the first responsibility becoming due , have been successful in our harvest , or we might not have got our harvest in . 
`` Madam , '' he replied , `` Mrs. Micawber and myself are deeply sensible of the very considerate kindness of our friends and patrons . 
I do n't know that Mr. Micawber attached any meaning to this last phrase ; I do n't know that anybody ever does , or did ; but he appeared to relish it uncommonly , and repeated , with an impressive cough , `` as between man and man . '' 
`` I propose , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` Bills -- a convenience to the mercantile world , for which , I believe , we are originally indebted to the Jews , who appear to me to have had a devilish deal too much to do with them ever since -- because they are negotiable . 
Mr. Micawber was of her opinion . 
`` In reference to our domestic preparations , madam , '' said Mr. Micawber , with some pride , `` for meeting the destiny to which we are now understood to be self-devoted , I beg to report them . 
For I own it seems to me , my dear Mr. Copperfield , '' said Mrs. Micawber , who always fell back on me , I suppose from old habit , to whomsoever else she might address her discourse at starting , `` that the time is come when the past should be buried in oblivion ; when my family should take Mr. Micawber by the hand , and Mr. Micawber should take my family by the hand ; when the lion should lie down with the lamb , and my family be on terms with Mr. Micawber . '' 
That my papa was too partial , I know ; still , on such a point as the frigid coldness which has ever subsisted between Mr. Micawber and my family , I necessarily have formed an opinion , delusive though it may be . '' 
`` Now , I may be wrong in my conclusions ; it is very likely that I am ; but my individual impression is , that the gulf between my family and Mr. Micawber may be traced to an apprehension , on the part of my family , that Mr. Micawber would require pecuniary accommodation . 
I can not help thinking , '' said Mrs. Micawber , with an air of deep sagacity , `` that there are members of my family who have been apprehensive that Mr. Micawber would solicit them for their names . 
`` Mr. Micawber being now on the eve of casting off the pecuniary shackles that have so long enthralled him , '' said Mrs. Micawber , `` and of commencing a new career in a country where there is sufficient range for his abilities , -- which , in my opinion , is exceedingly important ; Mr. Micawber 's abilities peculiarly requiring space , -- it seems to me that my family should signalise the occasion by coming forward . 
What I could wish to see , would be a meeting between Mr. Micawber and my family at a festive entertainment , to be given at my family 's expence ; where Mr. Micawber 's health and prosperity being proposed , by some leading member of my family , Mr. Micawber might have an opportunity of developing his views . '' 
`` My dear , '' said Mr. Micawber , with some heat , `` it may be better for me to state distinctly , at once , that if I were to develop my views to that assembled group , they would possibly be found of an offensive nature : my impression being that your family are , in the aggregate , impertinent Snobs ; and , in detail , unmitigated Ruffians . '' 
`` Micawber , '' said Mrs. Micawber , shaking her head , `` no ! 
Mr. Micawber coughed . 
`` They have never understood you , Micawber , '' said his wife . 
`` I am extremely sorry , my dear Emma , '' said Mr. Micawber , relenting , `` to have been betrayed into any expressions that might , even remotely , have the appearance of being strong expressions . 
The matter being thus amicably settled , Mr. Micawber gave Mrs. Micawber his arm , and , glancing at the heap of books and papers lying before Traddles on the table , said they would leave us to ourselves ; which they ceremoniously did . 
`` I must do Mr. Micawber the justice to say , '' Traddles began , `` that although he would appear not to have worked to any good account for himself , he is a most untiring man when he works for other people . 
If he always goes on in the same way , he must be , virtually , about two hundred years old , at present . 
The heat into which he has been continually putting himself ; and the distracted and impetuous manner in which he has been diving , day and night , among papers and books ; to say nothing of the immense number of letters he has written me between this house and Mr. Wickfield 's , and often across the table when he has been sitting opposite , and might much more easily have spoken ; is quite extraordinary . '' 
`` Why , the fact is , '' returned Traddles , `` Mr. Micawber had so completely hemmed him in , and was always ready with so many new points if an old one failed , that he could not escape from us . 
A most remarkable circumstance is , that I really do n't think he grasped this sum even so much for the gratification of his avarice , which was inordinate , as in the hatred he felt for Copperfield . 
He said so to me , plainly . 
He said he would even have spent as much , to baulk or injure Copperfield . '' 
He seemed to consider himself hardly less indebted to me , than to Mr. Micawber ; which I consider -LRB- as I told him -RRB- quite a compliment . '' 
`` Do you suppose he has any money , Traddles ? '' 
`` I should say he must have pocketed a good deal , in one way or other . 
`` And now , touching Mr. Micawber , '' said my aunt . 
`` Well , really , '' said Traddles , cheerfully , `` I must , once more , give Mr. Micawber high praise . 
But for his having been so patient and persevering for so long a time , we never could have hoped to do anything worth speaking of . 
And I think we ought to consider that Mr. Micawber did right , for right 's sake , when we reflect what terms he might have made with Uriah Heep himself , for his silence . '' 
`` I think so too , '' said I. `` Now , what would you give him ? '' 
Those I. O. U. 's , and so forth , which Mr. Micawber gave him for the advances he had -- '' `` Well ! 
`` Yes , but I do n't know when they may be proceeded on , or where they are , '' rejoined Traddles , opening his eyes ; `` and I anticipate , that , between this time and his departure , Mr. Micawber will be constantly arrested , or taken in execution . '' 
`` Then he must be constantly set free again , and taken out of execution , '' said my aunt . 
`` Why , Mr. Micawber has entered the transactions -- he calls them transactions -- with great form , in a book , '' rejoined Traddles , smiling ; `` and he makes the amount a hundred and three pounds , five . '' 
`` Now , what shall we give him , that sum included ? '' 
We both recommended a small sum in money , and the payment , without stipulation to Mr. Micawber , of the Uriah claims as they came in . 
We proposed that the family should have their passage and their outfit , and a hundred pounds ; and that Mr. Micawber 's arrangement for the repayment of the advances should be gravely entered into , as it might be wholesome for him to suppose himself under that responsibility . 
To this , I added the suggestion , that I should give some explanation of his character and history to Mr. Peggotty , who I knew could be relied on ; and that to Mr. Peggotty should be quietly entrusted the discretion of advancing another hundred . 
I further proposed to interest Mr. Micawber in Mr. Peggotty , by confiding so much of Mr. Peggotty 's story to him as I might feel justified in relating , or might think expedient ; and to endeavour to bring each of them to bear upon the other , for the common advantage . 
On the day of Mr. Micawber 's memorable denunciation , a threatening allusion was made by Uriah Heep to your aunt 's -- husband . '' 
Traddles , with a perceptible lengthening of his face , explained that he had not been able to approach this subject ; that it had shared the fate of Mr. Micawber 's liabilities , in not being comprehended in the terms he had made ; that we were no longer of any authority with Uriah Heep ; and that if he could do us , or any of us , any injury or annoyance , no doubt he would . 
These she explained , to the unbounded satisfaction of the family , -- children and all being then present , -- and so much to the awakening of Mr. Micawber 's punctual habits in the opening stage of all bill transactions , that he could not be dissuaded from immediately rushing out , in the highest spirits , to buy the stamps for his notes of hand . 
But , his joy received a sudden check ; for within five minutes , he returned in the custody of a sheriff 's officer , informing us , in a flood of tears , that all was lost , We , being quite prepared for this event , which was of course a proceeding of Uriah Heep 's , soon paid the money ; and in five minutes more Mr. Micawber was seated at the table , filling up the stamps with an expression of perfect joy , which only that congenial employment , or the making of punch , could impart in full completeness to his shining face . 
To see him at work on the stamps , with the relish of an artist , touching them like pictures , looking at them sideways , taking weighty notes of dates and amounts in his pocket-book , and contemplating them when finished , with a high sense of their precious value , was a sight indeed . 
`` Madam , '' replied Mr. Micawber , `` it is my intention to register such a vow on the virgin page of the future . 
I trust , '' said Mr. Micawber , solemnly , `` that my son Wilkins will ever bear in mind , that he had infinitely better put his fist in the fire , than use it to handle the serpents that have poisoned the life-blood of his unhappy parent ! '' 
Deeply affected , and changed in a moment to the image of despair , Mr. Micawber regarded the serpents with a look of gloomy abhorrence -LRB- in which his late admiration of them was not quite subdued -RRB- , folded them up , and put them in his pocket . 
So we rode back to her little cottage at Highgate , where we found the following short note , which had arrived by that morning 's post from Mr. Micawber : `` Canterbury , `` Friday . 
Micawber , and the defendant in that cause is the prey of the sheriff having legal jurisdiction in this bailiwick . 
I took Mr. Micawber aside that same night , and confided to him the task of standing between Mr. Peggotty and intelligence of the late catastrophe . 
`` If it penetrates to him , sir , '' said Mr. Micawber , striking himself on the breast , `` it shall first pass through this body ! '' 
Mr. Micawber , I must observe , in his adaptation of himself to a new state of society , had acquired a bold buccaneering air , not absolutely lawless , but defensive and prompt . 
One might have supposed him a child of the wilderness , long accustomed to live out of the confines of civilisation , and about to return to his native wilds . 
In this rough clothing , with a common mariner 's telescope under his arm , and a shrewd trick of casting up his eye at the sky as looking out for dirty weather , he was far more nautical , after his manner , than Mr. Peggotty . 
Both Mr. Micawber and his eldest son wore their sleeves loosely turned back at the wrists , as being ready to lend a hand in any direction , and to `` tumble up , '' or sing out , `` Yeo -- Heave -- Yeo ! '' 
I had told Traddles of the terrible event , and it had greatly shocked him ; but there could be no doubt of the kindness of keeping it a secret , and he had come to help me in this last service . 
It was here that I took Mr. Micawber aside , and received his promise . 
The Micawber family were lodged in a little , dirty , tumble-down public-house , which in those days was close to the stairs , and whose protruding wooden rooms overhung the river . 
It was not easy to answer her inquiries ; still less to whisper Mr. Peggotty , when Mr. Micawber brought him in , that I had given the letter , and all was well . 
`` And when does the ship sail , Mr. Micawber ? '' 
Mr. Micawber considered it necessary to prepare either my aunt or his wife , by degrees , and said , sooner than he had expected yesterday . 
`` It did , ma'am , '' he returned . 
`` And she sails -- '' `` Madam , '' he replied , `` I am informed that we must positively be on board before seven to-morrow morning . '' 
`` Until then , and until we are at sea , '' observed Mr. Micawber , with a glance of intelligence at me , `` Mr. Peggotty and myself will constantly keep a double look-out together , on our goods and chattels . 
Emma , my love , '' said Mr. Micawber , clearing his throat in his magnificent , way , `` my friend Mr. Thomas Traddles is so obliging as to solicit , in my ear , that he should have the privilege of ordering the ingredients necessary to the composition of a moderate portion of that Beverage which is peculiarly associated , in our minds , with the Roast Beef of old England . 
Under ordinary circumstances , I should scruple to entreat the indulgence of Miss Trotwood and Miss Wickfield , but -- '' `` I can only say for myself , '' said my aunt , `` that I will drink all happiness and success to you , Mr. Micawber , with the utmost pleasure . '' 
Mr. Micawber immediately descended to the bar , where he appeared to be quite at home ; and in due time returned with a steaming jug . 
I could not but observe that he had been peeling the lemons with his own clasp-knife , which , as became the knife of a practical settler , was about a foot long ; and which he wiped , not wholly without ostentation , on the sleeve of his coat . 
In a similar anticipation of life afloat , and in the Bush , Mr. Micawber , instead of helping Mrs. Micawber and his eldest son and daughter to punch , in wine-glasses , which he might easily have done , for there was a shelf-full in the room served it out to them in a series of villainous little tin pots ; and I never saw him enjoy anything so such as drinking out of his own particular pint pot , and putting it in his pocket at the close of the evening . 
`` The luxuries of the old country , '' said Mr. Micawber , with an intense satisfaction in their renouncement , `` we abandon . 
Here , a boy came in to say that Mr. Micawber was wanted down-stairs . 
`` If so , my dear , '' observed Mr. Micawber , with his usual suddenness of warmth on that subject , `` as the member of your family -- whoever he , she , or it , may be -- has kept uswaiting for a considerable period , perhaps the Member may now wait myconvenience . '' 
`` Micawber , '' said his wife , in a low tone , `` at such a time as this -- '' ``` It is not meet , ''' said Mr. Micawber , rising , ``` that every nice offence should bear its comment ! ' 
`` The loss , Micawber , '' observed his wife , `` has been my family 's , not yours . 
`` My dear , '' he returned , `` so be it ! '' 
`` If not for their sakes ; for mine , Micawber , '' said his wife . 
`` Emma , '' he returned , `` that view of the question is , at such a moment , irresistible . 
Mr. Micawber withdrew , and was absent some little time ; in the course of which Mrs. Micawber was not wholly free from an apprehension that words might have arisen between him and the Member . 
At length the same boy re-appeared , and presented me with a note written in pencil , and headed , in a legal manner , `` Heep v. Micawber . '' 
From this document , I learned that Mr. Micawber , being again arrested , was in a final paroxysm of despair ; and that he begged me to send him his knife and pint pot , by bearer , as they might prove serviceable during the brief remainder of his existence , in jail . 
He also requested , as a last act of friendship , that I would see his family to the Parish Workhouse , and forget that such a Being ever lived . 
Of course I answered this note by going down with the boy to pay the money , where I found Mr. Micawber sitting in a corner , looking darkly at the Sheriff 's Officer who had effected the capture . 
On his release , he embraced me with the utmost fervor ; and made an entry of the transaction in his pocket-book -- being very particular , I recollect , about a halfpenny I inadvertently omitted from my statement of the total . 
This momentous pocket-book was a timely reminder to him of another transaction . 
On our return to the room upstairs -LRB- where he accounted for his absence by saying that it had been occasioned by circumstances over which he had no control -RRB- , he took out of it a large sheet of paper , folded small , and quite covered with long sums , carefully worked . 
These , it seemed , were calculations of compound interest on what he called `` the principal amount of forty-one , ten , eleven and a half , '' for various periods . 
After a careful consideration of these , and an elaborate estimate of his resources , he had come to the conclusion to select that sum which represented the amount with compound interest to two years , fifteen calendar months , and fourteen days , from that date . 
For this he had drawn a note of-hand with great neatness , which he handed over to Traddles on the spot , a discharge of his debt in full -LRB- as between man and man -RRB- , with many acknowledgments . 
Mr. Micawber evidently had his presentiment on the subject too , but he put it in his tin pot and swallowed it . 
`` Please Heaven , there will be many such opportunities , '' said Mr. Micawber . 
It is merely crossing , '' said Mr. Micawber , trifling with his eye-glass , `` merely crossing . 
I think , now , how odd it was , but how wonderfully like Mr. Micawber , that , when he went from London to Canterbury , he should have talked as if he were going to the farthest limits of the earth ; and , when he went from England to Australia , as if he were going for a little trip across the channel . 
`` On the voyage , I shall endeavour , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` occasionally to spin them a yarn ; and the melody of my son Wilkins will , I trust , be acceptable at the galley-fire . 
In short , '' said Mr. Micawber , with the old genteel air , `` the probability is , all will be found so exciting , alow and aloft , that when the look-out , stationed in the main-top , cries Land-ho ! 
With that he flourished off the contents of his little tin pot , as if he had made the voyage , and had passed a first-class examination before the highest naval authorities . 
Do not frown , Micawber ! 
`` My dear , '' said Mr. Micawber , `` Britannia must take her chance . 
`` Micawber , '' returned Mrs. Micawber , `` there , you are wrong . 
You are going out , Micawber , to this distant clime , to strengthen , not to weaken , the connexion between yourself and Albion . '' 
`` The connexion in question , my love , '' rejoined Mr. Micawber , `` has not laid me , I repeat , under that load of personal obligation , that I am at all sensitive as to the formation of another connexion . '' 
`` Micawber , '' returned Mrs. Micawber . 
You do not know your power , Micawber . 
Mr. Micawber sat in his elbow-chair , with his eyebrows raised ; half receiving and half repudiating Mrs. Micawber 's views as they were stated , but very sensible of their foresight . 
`` My dear Mr. Copperfield , '' said Mrs. Micawber , `` I wish Mr. Micawber to feel his position . 
It appears to me highly important that Mr. Micawber should , from the hour of his embarkation , feel his position . 
Your old knowledge of me , my dear Mr. Copperfield , will have told you that I have not the sanguine disposition of Mr. Micawber . 
But , I also know what Mr. Micawber is . 
I know the latent power of Mr. Micawber . 
And therefore I consider it vitally important that Mr. Micawber should feel his position . '' 
`` My love , '' he observed , `` perhaps you will allow me to remark that it is barely possible that I dofeel my position at the present moment . '' 
`` I think not , Micawber , '' she rejoined . 
My dear Mr. Copperfield , Mr. Micawber 's is not a common case . 
Mr. Micawber is going to a distant country , expressly in order that he may be fully understood and appreciated for the first time . 
I wish Mr. Micawber to take his stand upon that vessel 's prow , and firmly say ` This country I am come to conquer ! 
Mr. Micawber , glancing at us all , seemed to think there was a good deal in this idea . 
`` I wish Mr. Micawber , if I make myself understood , '' said Mrs. Micawber , in her argumentative tone , `` to be the Csar of his own fortunes . 
From the first moment of this voyage , I wish Mr. Micawber to stand upon that vessel 's prow and say , ` Enough of delay : enough of disappointment : enough of limited means . 
''' Mr. Micawber folded his arms , in a resolute manner , as if he were then stationed on the figure-head . 
`` And doing that , '' said Mrs. Micawber , '' -- feeling his position -- am I not right in saying that Mr. Micawber will strengthen , and not weaken , his connexion with Britain ? 
Can I be so weak as to imagine that Mr. Micawber , wielding the rod of talent and of power in Australia , will be nothing in England ? 
Mr. Micawber may be -- I can not disguise from myself that the probability is , Mr. Micawber will be -- a page of History ; and he ought then to be represented in the country which gave him birth , and did notgive him employment ! '' 
`` My love , '' observed Mr. Micawber , `` it is impossible for me not to be touched by your affection . 
Mr. Peggotty put down the two children he had been nursing , one on each knee , to join Mr. and Mrs. Micawber in drinking to all of us in return ; and when he and the Micawbers cordially shook hands as comrades , and his brown face brightened with a smile , I felt that he would make his way , establish a good name , and be beloved , go where he would . 
Even the children were instructed , each to dip a wooden spoon into Mr. Micawber 's pot , and pledge us in its contents . 
He told me that Mr. Micawber had just now been arrested again -LRB- and for the last time -RRB- at the suit of Heep , and that , in compliance with a request I had made to him , he had paid the money : which I repaid him . 
He then took us down between decks ; and there , any lingering fears I had of his having heard any rumours of what had happened , were dispelled by Mr. Micawber 's coming out of the gloom , taking his arm with an air of friendship and protection , and telling me that they had scarcely been asunder for a moment , since the night before last . 
As my eye glanced round this place , I thought I saw sitting , by an open port , with one of the Micawber children near her , a figure like Emily 's ; it first attracted my attention , by another figure parting from it with a kiss ; and as it glided calmly away through the disorder , reminding me of -- Agnes ! 
She was looking distractedly about for her family , even then ; and her last words to me were , that she never would desert Mr. Micawber . 
How the emigrants never wrote home , otherwise than cheerfully and hopefully ; how Mr. Micawber had actually remitted divers small sums of money , on account of those `` pecuniary liabilities , '' in reference to which he had been so business-like as between man and man ; how Janet , returning into my aunt 's service when she came back to Dover , had finally carried out her renunciation of mankind by entering into wedlock with a thriving tavern-keeper ; and how my aunt had finally set herseal on the same great principle , by aiding and abetting the bride , and crowning the marriage-ceremony with her presence ; were among our topics -- already more or less familiar to me through the letters I had had . 
I returned ; and looking , as I passed , through the low window of the turret-room where first Uriah Heep , and afterwards Mr. Micawber , had been wont to sit , saw that it was a little parlor now , and that there was no office . 
`` Now , last , not least , Mr. Micawber , '' said I. `` He has paid off every obligation he incurred here -- even to Traddles 's bill , you remember , my dear Agnes -- and therefore we may take it for granted that he is doing well . 
But what is the latest news of him ? '' 
`` Mr. Micawber was in the Bush near you ? '' 
I 've seen that theer bald head of his , a perspiring in the sun , Mas ' r Davy , 'till I a ` most thowt it would have melted away . 
I found , on glancing at the remaining contents of the newspaper , that Mr. Micawber was a diligent and esteemed correspondent of that Journal . 
There was another letter from him in the same paper , touching a bridge ; there was an advertisement of a collection of similar letters by him , to be shortly republished , in a neat volume , `` with considerable additions ; '' and , unless I am very much mistaken , the Leading Article was his also . 
We talked much of Mr. Micawber , on many other evenings while Mr. Peggotty remained with us . 
