Charles Stanley , for such was his name , had full confidence in his ability and power to win from dame fortune her smiles by his seeking , and if she frowned upon him at his first entrance into the great and busy world , he was prepared not to be cast down or driven from his purpose . 
He had received an excellent education at home , for the period and part of the country where he had lived , and was accounted a remarkable scholar by the village pedagogue , that gave the boys and gals their larning ; and at home under the careful teaching of a pious father and mother he had learned lessons of morality and religion which he cherished , that if practiced would carry him safely through all the vicissitudes of life , and he had resolved to remember them and make them a rule of conduct . 
Fortunately for him , on the first day 's entrance into the city he was engaged by one of the best firms in the city ; two of their clerks had suddenly left them , and one of the partners by accident met Charles as he was entering the house where he took up his quarters in the place . 
He was so much pleased with the first impression Charles made upon him , and so interested in the intelligence and good sense of his conversation , that he at once gave him the card of the firm , `` Leslie & Burke , importers of French and English goods , No. 50 Wall street , '' and when he left him told him he should expect to see him the next morning . 
Charles was punctual to the appointment , and was regularly installed in his new vocation . 
That morning he attended diligently to the duties that were laid upon him , and devoted all his time and talents to the acquisition of his new calling . 
In a short time he had acquired a tolerably good knowledge of business , and was promoted by his employers , who took much interest in him . 
It was in such a house , with such men , that Charles received his business education ; and being a young man of much promise , rigidly strict in his habits , exceedingly attentive to business , and feeling deeply interested in whatever vatching over their interests as if they vere his own , he gained at once not only heir warm approbation , but also their earty esteem ; and as time wore on they ecame more and more attached to him , nd took increasing pains and care to aford him every advantage in their reach or self-education and improvement . 
-- Books were furnished him with the adice and counsel of his employers , with egard to his course and manner of readng ; then again he was welcomed as a visitor in both their families , where he vas treated more like a son than a guest , and a son he was indeed destined to become to Mr. Leslie , the eldest partner . 
On their first acquaintance they were deeply interested in each other , and Charles had not been long a clerk for her father , and had not made many visits to his house , before this interest ripened into love , and it was to this deep and fervent attachment on the part of Charles to a gifted and beautiful girl , a passion that was met and warmly returned by her , that he owed that strong and constant influence that held him to a course of life marked by uprightness and unblemished honor , more than to any other cause . 
The son had the christian name of his father , Charles ; he displayed at an early age in life talents of no common order , and had developed and improved his mind by careful attention to his reading , and close application to his rank in his class ; to him belonged the first prize awarded to the best scholar at the close of his course of studies in the seminary . 
To see Charles Stanley in the hours of amusement , laughing and chatting gaily with his young friends , and giving himself up to pleasure , you would have supposed him of a light and superficial character , and one not at all fitted for the stern realities and trying seasons that few escape in the course of their life time , when firmness and decision are the only qualities that can save them . 
Such in person was Charles Stanley , the hero of my book . 
His sisters , as I have already said , were younger than himself ; and in a city where the beauty of its females is unsurpassed by any city on the globe , were considered beautiful girls . 
But it is of Charles I wish to speak , and although the fair deserve better treatment than to be thus suddenly disposed of , necessity must rule . 
He had been destined by his father for a mercantile life , and had been engaged in business for two or three years , but it was a hard and trying thing for him to tie himself down to a city life , although he was in a good business , with an abundance of funds to carry it on , and although in society he was equally as successful , for he had been welcomed with open arms by the fashionable world . 
His beauty , his wit and learning , had delighted and amused a class where the two latter commodities at least were not often discovered , and many a fair daughter of fashion had fluttered around him clothed in witching smiles and radiant beauty , like a gaily painted butterfly , longing to capture his hand and heart too if necessary to secure him . 
Many were the costly dinner parties , the well planned and delightful pic nic parties , the charming sailing excursions that were provided by fond and anxious mothers for his especial benefit , that he might both see , admire , and fall in love with their dear sweet girls . 
But if the truth must be told , for some reason or other , Charles had never discovered what all these amusing pleasures were designed especially for , or if he had , had not entered into the expected of him . 
His heart was yet free . 
This occasion soon presented itself , and Charles pleaded his wishes and gave his reasons for his course to his father , and requested his consent to follow them . 
Mr. Stanley , as might have been expected , seemed very much surprised at what his son said , but this did not prevent him from listening attentively , or cause him to interrupt him in what he had to say to him . 
He waited until he had finished , and paused for an answer . 
He did not reply to him immediately , but for a few moments remained silent , during which time he regarded his son closely , as if to be sure that he rightly understood him , and that he was really in earnest in what he said ; then in a friendly , kind tone , said he : -- `` Do you know , my dear son , what a laborious , what an uncertain life you are choosing for yourself ? '' 
Charles replied that he had thought the matter over thoroughly , and he was prepared to experience difficulties and labor he had never yet encountered . 
-- But said his father , `` Have you thought of the sacrifices you will be compelled to make -- all the luxuries of life to which you have been accustomed , and many of its comforts , even , you will be deprived of . '' 
Charles answered him by saying he was ready to do so , and even anxious to undergo them . 
But said his father , `` I fear should you take this course , you will be sadly disappointed , for I can tell you it is very different from what you have been used to . 
After an hour pleasantly spent in conversation with his father , Charles left the library and betook himself to his own room , to reflect upon his interview with his father , and carefully consider the advice he had received from him , and again to review his own plans . 
As he turned his thoughts backwards and reviewed the past , all the kindness of his parents -- their ever constant and active love towards him , rose up before , and seemed to rebuke his selfish inclinations , and reproach him that he had thought so little of their feelings and happiness in the formation of his plans for the future . 
He knew , he felt , how fondly -- how ardently -- his parents and sisters were attached to him , and in the past he saw how readily they had met and answered all his wishes , when it could be done consistently with his welfare ; he felt the force of his father 's reasoning when he had said that it would pain him to part from him his only son , and in fancy he realized the grief and sorrow such a separation would bring to the heart of his dear mother , and much beloved sisters ; and while these thoughts came , filling his mind with tender images and melting reflections , his heart grew softer , his feelings prevailed , and he was almost inclined to abandon the projects he had cherished . 
But as he glanced back again to the life he was leading at home , and thought of the wearisome hours that dragged their slow length so tardily along at the store , and as he contemplated the idle , frivolous , and heartless manners in which society delighted , and of which he had become so heartily tired , he turned once more to his cherished scheme with a heart kindling with fresher feelings , and beating with stronger wishes . 
Although the gratification of his love for the wild sports of the huntsman , and the novelty of the life he proposed for himself had a prominent place in the train of arguments , and was one of the chief motives that influenced him , yet there was another and a different reason for his pursuing such a course ; and this , to his ardent and somewhat imaginative mind , impulsive in whatever he undertook , had great weight : it was the condition and welfare of the Indians . 
She could not for a moment believe that Charles was serious and determined in this course ; but they both thought best to have a consultation with their son , and endeavor now while this project was in its infancy , to root it out of his mind . 
Mr. Stanley would not render his wife more anxious and uneasy by stating his convictions that Charles was fixed and strong in his resolution , but left it to his son to inform her in his own way , as being best . 
Accordingly , the day after the conversation referred to , his mother requested him to remain at home with them , as they wished to converse with him on a subject important to him . 
Charles at once surmised what that subject was , and readily consented ; and although he had laid his head upon his pillow the night past with his mind more strongly as he looked upon his mother and saw her dear face clouded with anxiety and thought , he felt if she opposed his wishes and objected to his leaving home , he must relinquish them , and remain . 
She was his mother -- how dear the word to his ear , what feelings awoke in his heart at the sound -- the thought of it . 
He was devotedly attached to his mother , and she loved him with all a mother 's love , a love stronger than death , that outlives time , and that nothing can conquer . 
He thought of her as the angel who had watched over his helpless and feeble infancy , and guided with never sleeping vigilance his boyish life ; into her sympathizing and ever listening ear he had poured forth his little troubles and disappointments that vexed his boyish heart , and she had comforted and soothed him . 
Charles , I said , thought should his mother oppose his wishes , his heart would fail him , and he should at once resign the plan he had so warmly cherished in his mind . 
But he had yet to learn himself . 
He knew not the strength of his own character ; he would even be surprised at the resolute , aye , obstinate tenacity with which he clung to his own opinions and resolves . 
His mother was serious and thoughtful . 
Charles thought she looked sad , and he felt self reproached before she had spoken a word , as if he had caused her sadness ; but when she spoke a thrill of feelings ran through his frame . 
In a voice tender and full of feeling she said to him : `` Your father has told me you wished to leave us , my son , to go away from your home and friends ; he has also detailed to me your plans as you stated them to him in your conversation yester day ; and now , Charles , I wish to ask you if you are really serious in this ? 
No , no , Charles , you are mistaken in your views ; and this time , you have suffered your love of novelty and curiosity to blind your reason ; your imagination has outstripped your reflection . 
Come Charles , now tell me that you do not wish any longer to leave me , and that you will give up these plans . 
As his mother ceased speaking , she looked affectionately upon him , awaiting his answer to her last appeal to him , which should be an answer to all the other questions she had put to him , Charles , who was sitting by her side , took her hand in his own , and turning upon her a glance of affection , replied : `` I should be a most undutiful , most ungrateful son , nay , more , I must be a most heartless and unfeeling being , did mother and father -- did I not feel the strongest attachment to my affectionate sisters , and fondly prize my happy home . 
Perhaps the reader may think it strange that Charles should have spoken in such a strain at this time to his parents -- his words so like a set speech -- but this wonder will be dispelled at once when his impulsive , impassioned character is remembered . 
It was his wont to speak warmly upon every topic that interested him . 
Charles had at this time spoken with more than usual feeling and energy , for his feelings were fully enlisted in his plans ; and while he was speaking to them , his parents felt their objections vanishing away , and could not but assent to what he said . 
His views were clear and distinct : they were moreover philanthropic and christian . 
They showed that he possessed a large and active heart , while his opinions did credit to his intellect . 
That he might grow up something more , something better , than a mere intellectual reasoner , was ever their fondest desire . 
But there is another character , and one which we think better describes that of our young friend Charles . 
To such an one we freely bestow our love , esteem , and respect ; while we are attracted and attached to him through his generosity , benevolence and kindness of disposition , which shine in all his ways , and adorn with pleasing beauty all his acts , we at the same time admire and reverence him for the wisdom he displays in all his counsels , the prudence and foresight which distinguish his every design . 
While his measures are chosen with consummate wisdom for the purposes he has in view , they are framed with a tender and kind regard for the comfort and welfare of those with whom he acts . 
As yet the character of Charles was not fully developed and fixed ; but such were the elements that showed themselves in his composition . 
They were , it is true , at present tinged , and in a certain measure modified by the freshness and buoyancy of youthful feelings , which served to throw a shade of romance over his mind , rendering it perhaps , more imaginative than practical and commonplace in its tendencies ; faults , if I may may so call them -- though I think they scarcely deserve that term -- which time and contact with the world are pretty sure to mend . 
He had on this occasion , while speaking to his parents , said but very little about the gratification he anticipated , and expected to derive from the fruition and enjoyment of longing desires for a forest life . 
This was not , however , an intentional omission on his part . 
But he spoke out the feelings of his heart , and these were the emotions that then occupied his bosom . 
And in vindication of the character of Charles , we must not neglect to say what we believe we have not yet any where written , that this purpose of serving the welfare , and bettering the condition of the Indian race , was always , from the first , connected with the plan he had formed for gratifying his wish for a wild roving life ; and although it was not the first idea connected with his scheme , but grew out of and flowed from the other ; yet since it had found a lodging in his mind , it had ever been uppermost . 
His parents were pleased to find him so generous and charitable in his feelings , so ready to enlist in the cause of human happiness , and benevolent labors . 
But , notwithstanding all this , his plan seemed to them hardly to offer any very strong hopes of its success . 
-- Besides , Charles was very young , and there were many and peculiar obstacles in the way of a young man , who puts himself at the head of any new or great enterprise , or undertaking ; or who attempts to lead society into an unusual and fresh career of action , or arouse them to the performance of some neglected duties ; and especially is this the case if such enterprise call upon them for exertion or make a demand upon their pockets . 
Charles and his parents now consulted at length upon the plans he had formed as regards the course he was to pursue . 
The states and cities he proposed to visit on his route , were enumerated , the length of time he should spend in each settled , and last the period , the period fixed when he should return from his wanderings . 
It was a fine bright morning in the early part of the month of August , when our young friend Charles took his way through the busy , thronged streets of the city of his home , to the wharf where lay the noble steamer Knickerbocker , just ready to start for Albany ; as soon as the clock struck the hour , which was her appointed time for leaving , and it lacked but a few minutes of that time , away she would bound on swift wings , borne on the bosom of that grand and noble river , the Hudson -- the pride of the country ; already her broad decks were covered with the motley restless crowd , who are ever on the stir , going to and returning from the big city . 
Charles , whose heart was always alive to the grand and sublime exhibitions of nature , and whose eye was wont to seek and dwell upon the beautiful and picturesque , could but admire the charming scene that was spread out before him as he gazed from the vessel 's deck on either side of him . 
Charles looked after them as their little boat danced over the water , impelled by the youthful hands of its gay company ; its shining sides scarce seems to touch the water 's edge , so light and buoyant does it ride the waves , just burying its slender keel in the blue waters . 
As they left the shore behind , and moved farther and farther from the spot where Charles stood , it diminished to but a tiny speck , whose even onward motion seemed like the motion of the sea bird that swims the ocean waves , and there finds itself free and joyous , when the waters sleep in repose , or when the tempest stirring winds are let loose , and wake the boiling deep to fury , steady , beautifully and calmly they ride on the tops of the crested billows , and the mighty ocean whose fury laughs at the strength of man , and tosses the strong ships that dare its power as if they were but feathers or floating bubbles on its surface , and makes the bold mariner 's cheek to blanch with fear , and his lip to quiver with fright , is alike the pastime and the sport of the ocean bird ; but here Charles left gazing after them , and turning his looks down the stream , he saw , not more than a stone 's throw from the shore , off in the deep tide , the large and beautiful ship which is the pride and boast of the American navy , the Ohio ; she is a model ship , whose tall tapering masts seem lost in the clouds , while her strong staunch hulk , held by iron cables , lay calm and motionless like a huge whale asleep on the surface , in the bright sunshine . 
But the scene which thus lay spread out before him in all its loveliness and great beauty , awakened in the heart of Charles mingled feelings of pleasure and sorrow . 
The parting blessings of his parents still sounded in his ears . 
The tears of blended love and grief that wet his mother 's cheek , as she pressed him to her bosom in a farewell embrace , and imprinted a parting kiss upon his lips -- the tearful eyes and sad faces of his dearly loved sisters , as they bid him an affectionate adieu -- were all present to his mind 's eye , and his thoughts flew back to them , the loved ones , and the true-hearted friends . 
The scenes of his childhood and youth , passed so happily in their company , came rapidly in review before him , spreading themselves out before his mind 's eye with a vividness and distinctness that made all else about and around him , dim and pale . 
It was the first time in his life that he had quitted his home to go out alone into the wide world , master of himself , and dependant upon himself in all the emergencies that might happen to him . 
And all who have ever been in a similar position with him , know , and can well appreciate , the sad , chilling feelings of sadness , that crowd upon the heart , and wrap in a mantle of gloom all around us , when we take the first flight from the home of our childhood , and looking around us for the kind faces of our cherished friends that were wont to greet us with smiles of affection , we miss them , and as we listen for the well remembered voices that were ever wont to meet us in sweet tones of love , in tender solicitude for our welfare , and kind counsels for our happiness . 
-- Charles started up as if amazed , and walking to the stern , he gave a long , a parting look to his native city , where dwelt all who were most dear to him on earth . 
Swiftly the steamer glides along , fainter and fainter grows the city he is leaving behind him , till at last it sinks , dies away from his view -- it is gone : he is now alone in the world . 
-- He was alone , but at the same time in the midst of a crowd , who thronged the vessel 's deck . 
He had no wish , no thought of mingling with the company and becoming of them . 
He desired to indulge the reflections that were awakened in his mind , by himself . 
Charles was vexed and annoyed a good deal by the prying curiosity of his fellow passengers , as one after another they attacked with their questions , and stated their individual views and feelings for his especial benefit . 
But as he generally answered them in monosyllables , they soon exhausted themselves and left him for want of encouragement , to try their powers on some more supple and interesting subject . 
In this manner the long day wore away , and at night Charles landed safely at the city of Albany . 
This city Charles had often visited before , and was well acquainted with it , and for this reason he chose not to remain here a longer time than was necessary ; and , accordingly , early the next morning he left the place for Buffalo . 
-- This place was new to him , and in accordance with the plan he had formed before leaving home , to acquire all the information within his reach , with regard to the country , cities and towns , that he visited , he spent several days here , and in his active search for information , and his interested examination of the wonders of the city , he forgot his sadness , and again recovered his cheerfulness and buoyancy of spirits . 
From this city he went directly to Pittsburgh . 
There are many branches of labor pursued here , which Charles found of interest to him . 
A small opening is made in the side of the mountain where the coal shows itself , protruding through the rocky ore ; and the miner in his operations follows the course of the vein which he has opened ; often times this leads deep into the bowels of the mountain . 
As he advances , and the distance to the opening increases , in order to facilitate and render more easy the labor of transporting the coal which he detaches from the mass , small railways are constructed leading from the opening to the place where he labors ; and burden cars being placed upon the rails , he is enabled both rapidly and with great ease , to bring his burden to the mouth of the cave he has excavated It is a singular and interesting spectacle to see the miners , with their faces all begrimed and blackened with the dust of the jetty shining coal , mounted upon these cars , come riding from their hiding place beneath the ground with their freight of coal , shooting into daylight they quickly discharge their burden , and again suddenly disappear , returning to the dark regions from whence they issued , like beings of another world . 
Our friend Charles spent several days in this city , much to his gratification and enjoyment , visiting both the factories and mines located here . 
From this place his course was direct to Cincinnati , the Queen City of the West . 
And here again his love of novelty and the wonderful found an open source and a wide scope for gratification . 
Charles , who had landed here fresh and lively in spirits , strong and robust in health , the influence of the varying scenes through which he had passed , and the effect of traveling , having produced a beneficial effect upon him , he took lodging at the Broadway Hotel , which is the house of the city , and is situated near the lower end of Broadway . 
Charles remained in this place several days , and formed here many pleasant and agreeable acquaintances , who were courteous and attentive to him , and afforded their assistance and the benefit of their acquaintance with the city in his attempts to see the wonders of the place . 
`` I know , '' said the old gentleman to Charles , `` that it will seem almost incredible to you , as you look along the levee at the foot of the street , and see the hundreds of steamers that crowd edge , and when you survey this elegant and extensive hotel in front of which we now sit , and see all around the proofs and evidences of the wealth and large resources of the city ; but for all this , it is none the less true , that at the time of my story , all was a wild , dense woods . 
`` Agreed , '' replied his companion , `` for I really can see no other way of settling the question . '' 
Nat immediately pulled out of his pocket , a black looking copper coin , one of the old genuine cents , American coin , and holding it for a moment in his hand , while he looked closely at it , said : `` John , I will flip this up in the air ; if it turns up heads , we stay ; if tails , we go . '' 
Nat poised it for an instant on the end of his finger , while his companion sat watching him , as if his fate was the stake they played for . 
He threw it up ; and with breathless interest , both looked after it as it came to the ground , whirling and turning over and over in its descent . 
The moment it struck , Nat jumped to his feet , exclaiming : `` Heads , by thunder , John . 
Charles listened attentively to the story which the old gentleman told of the early settlement of the place ; and although he affirmed that his account was the only true one , still he thought it smacked somewhat of the fictitious , and had the color of the fabulous on its outside . 
Charles had now spent the time he had allotted to a visit , in this place ; and the next day proposed to leave by steamboat for St. Louis . 
It was just three o'clock on this afternoon , and the sun had declined from the zenith , till his rays fell more obliquely , with less power upon the earth , and the heat was beginning to lessen , when Charles was called by the hackman , whose carriage was waiting at the door , to take him to the steamer Daniel Boone , which was all ready to leave for St. Louis . 
He had bespoken a passage on board of her , and was therefore ready to leave . 
-- On reaching the boat he found -LRB- as that her freight was all taken in , the passengers all , with the exception of himself , for whom they were waiting , already on the decks ; and soon as he was fairly aboard of her , she blew off a puff of steam and started . 
At the same time , and simultaneously with her , a rival boat , and one which had but just been placed upon the route , for the purpose of surpassing and running off the route the elegantly finished , and indeed , swift but unfortunate Daniel Boone , started by her side . 
The Daniel Boone was the acknowledged leader on these waters , and had never yet met her equal for speed . 
The Ben Franklin was a new boat , built expressly for this route , and also with a view to render her faster than any other boat afloat on this river . 
Her machinery was superior in size and power to that of her rival . 
Her hull was shaped after the most approved style for sailing , was sharp and quite long at the bow , with a smooth , clear run , sitting lightly in the water , with a draught not over four feet . 
-- The Daniel Boone was a great favorite with the public , and had attained a fame not less for her swiftness and speed than for her comfortable and inviting accommodations . 
-- Large quantities of the most combustible fuel were laid in store , all was made trim and close , everything placed in perfect order , two new firemen added to each crew , and whatever they had thought of as calculated to assist them in driving their boat to the utmost of her speed was done . 
Charles , who had come to the spot where this conversation took place , with the other passengers , would have interfered in behalf of the captain , but he saw from the looks and gestures of the others that it would be in vain . 
Amongst this number was Charles : stunned and losing himself for an instant , he clung to the railings for support ; his two faithful hounds came close to his side , as if knowing the danger that threatened him , and resolved to save him . 
Quickly recovering his presence of mind , he saw at a glance the full extent of the overwhelming ruin that had come upon them , and without waiting a moment , he sprung from the sinking wreck into the water , and swimming directly to one of his suffering and wounded companions , he saved him from a watery grave , which yawned to receive him , his two dogs following closely after him . 
They reached the shore with him ; all that could be done to recover and save the lives of the unfortunate passengers , was done . 
The boat sunk immediately , filling with water instantly upon the bursting of the boiler , which had shattered and shivered her hull almost to splinters ; but as the river was quite shallow at the spot where she sunk , this circumstance enabled them easily to fish up much of the freight that was in her at the time . 
Charles recovered his trunk and the most of his baggage , though it was drenched through and through with water . 
Placing his stock on board the Ben Franklin , he left in her the next morning for St. Louis . 
Charles arrived at St. Louis without meeting with any other accidents or incidents worthy of notice . 
In these pathless , solemn woods , was Charles to spend his time . 
Here lay the theatre of his labors and pleasures ; here he was anxious to penetrate and were masters of this fair land , which they held like princely lords for their hunting grounds . 
But obstacles which Charles had not foreseen , which in his preparation were entirely forgotten , now unexpectedly presented themselves to him on the very threshhold of the forest . 
He must of necessity have a guide , to point out and show him his way ; for it would hardly be possible for him to strike out alone , by himself , into the woods even for a single day , without being entangled in its labyrinths , and losing his path , or direction rather , for these woods are pathless save only the ways that are marked by the wild bison , as he traverses its long extent in search of food , in herds of thousands and tens of thousands ; or else , perhaps , the narrow path that the light footed deer might have traced on the grassy turf , as they bounded in exulting leaps upon the prairies . 
In this city Charles was to provide himself with everything necessary for his equipment during the campaign . 
-- As he revolved these thoughts in his mind , he could not but perceive how pleasant and welcome a companion for his wanderings through the forest would be , and he resolved to make every effort in his power to provide himself with such an one . 
Charles was pretty well versed in physiognomy , and was quite proficient in reading characters , and he had risked his reputation for this skill often on his journey ; and whenever the subject upon which it was exercised happened to be a genuine Yankee , he had not failed in his suspicions . 
Charles finished his business and left the store , but scarcely had he left the door-step , ere he was accosted by the stranger we have spoken of , who followed close after him : `` Good day , sir , '' said he , `` a fine day , sir -- excellent weather this . '' 
Charles , though not altogether unprepared for such a salutation from him , was yet a little surprised by the ease and familiarity of tone and manner in which it was uttered . 
He however returned his greeting in the usual manner , with rather a cool tone , and was in the act of proceeding on , when the stranger again interrupted him , saying : `` I guess you are right from New York , sir -- you sorter look that way , sir ? '' 
Charles good naturedly heard him , and slackened his pace . 
He was a good deal amused at the pertinacity of the fellow , and his curiosity was awakened to know who he was , and what business he had with him ; for it was evident that he was anxious to communicate something to Charles , and was driving to the point as he best knew how . 
Therefore , Charles said to him in a more familiar free tone than he had used before : `` You have guessed right , my friend , I came from New York , and arrived here `` Well , I really thought I could ` nt be much out of the way , anyhow . 
Charles replied that he should indeed be glad to know what there was so peculiar about his appearance , as to have caused his attention , and led him to suppose that he came from New York . 
Charles could hardly restrain the laugh which rose to his lips , as the Yankee concluded . 
He was amused and pleased with the shrewdness he possessed and displayed , and his method for discovering who he was , and where he was going . 
All he said was so cool , so perfectly easy and friendly that it seemed ludicrous and comic in the extreme . 
-- Charles thanked him for the explanation he had given him , and replied to him that he doubted not but what his remarks upon St. Louis were perfectly correct ; as to his last inquiry , he said that it would require more time than he could spare , to answer it fully , but said he would be pleased to have an interview with him at a suitable place , and when he had more time on his hands . 
He concluded by inviting him to dine with him that day , at the Planter 's Hotel ; but said in a laughing tone , `` as to whether we may , or may not be going the same route depends very much on the direction you shall take , and that is a profound mystery , unless I shall or may possess your skill in guessing , which I entirely disclaim ; but come to my hotel , and we , together , may perhaps find out where we are travelling to . 
Such were the thoughts of the Yankee , as he went on his way , after parting with Charles . 
Charles , rashly perhaps , certainly suddenly , resolved to persuade this new acquaintance to accompany him , on his wandering and roving expedition ; he thought his meeting with him , just at the nick of time , when he was wishing for a companion , exceedingly fortunate , if not providential . 
Such , in brief , was the character of the man Charles had fixed upon as a companion , in his wanderings . 
And a very good choice he made , too . 
Where he would have done better once , he would have done worse a hundred times . 
The more Charles saw of him , the better he liked him . 
He discovered that he was not only a man of good sound sense , but he also mingled in his conversation much original wit and humor , and proved himself a very amusing companion for his leisure hours . 
After they had finished their dinner , they withdrew to a part of the room , where they could converse without interruption ; and Charles gave his new friend at once a detailed account of his plan , and declared what his intentions were in making the expedition ; and then warmly urged his companion to join him . 
It would , at least , be a pleasant trip , and he thought his Yankee friend , with his ready wit , and quick invention , might make it turn to his account . 
He concluded by offering him whatever assistance he needed , in preparing or procuring an outfit . 
Our Yankee friend heard him through ; not , however , without interrupting him occasionally , and wedging in sundry suggestions of his own , as Charles went on speaking of his intentions . 
As soon as he finished , the Yankee , with but few remarks , agreed to accompany him , already as we have said before , having made up his mind to this end . 
It is , in fact , altogether a matter of guessing that he is even a Yankee ; and I can not positively say that this important item of information was as yet in the possession of Charles himself . 
How far his plans had been facilitated by Charles , without his knowledge , however , we have already seen . 
Charles knew very little what would be necessary for them to take with them ; and therefore yielded very readily to the advice and suggestions of Jonatah , who seemed to be perfectly at home and familiar with the business . 
Their supply of clothing was a separate and individual matter ; though upon this point Jonathan took the liberty to give his opinion and counsel , which Charles willingly followed , and had great reason thereafter to be thankful for . 
Charles was surprised at the skill and celerity with which all these arrangements were made and carreid into effect ; without bustle or delay , Jonathan went forward , and in less than half the time he had allotted to this duty , and which he really and fully expected it would occupy him , they were all accomplished , everything packed , and ready to be sent on . 
Jonathan was no more amazed at the noble and elevated sentiments which fell from our friend Charles ' lips in their conversation , and by the learning he displayed , and the strong arguments with which he supported his opinions and principles of action , as well as his belief upon all subjects which were presented to him , than he was attached and attracted towards him for his generosity and kindness , which he every day had occasion to notice . 
And Chrales , on his part , could but admire the ready address and skill which his companion displayed on all occaisons ; the sound , pracical , common sense which he used on all subjects , and the bold , manly course he pursued . 
His views , too , were expressed , when in conversation with Charles , in a clear and distinct form , and oftentimes with an elegance of style and eloquence of manner , that surprised as much as it delighted him , and caused him to look upon him as altogether a different person from what he had supposed him to be at first . 
The fact escaped the notice of Charles when it was first mentioned , but afterwards , when he became better acquainted , he called the attention of his companion to it . 
Jonathan at once said to him , `` I guess you are my cousin , Charles ; for my father has a cousin in New York that answers to your account of your mother 's father , whose name is Leslie , and who is a man of great wealth , and has been a merchant . '' 
When our two young friends arrived here , their first object was , I say , to find such a guide ; and here Charles depended much on the skill , and address , and acuteness of his Yankee cousin , for success in their choice and efforts . 
Charles and Jonathan observed him very closely the first day after their arrival there , and had some conversation with him . 
He appeared to be struck with their appearance , and showed an interest in them ; and , on their part , they were both much surprised and pleased with the intelligence he manifested , the knowledge which he showed himself possessed of upon all the subjects they spoke of , and the noble , generous sentiments he uttered , in simple but attractive language . 
He was a man in years , past the prime of life ; being , as he told them ; upwards of forty years of age ; yet did he display in his motions , in his ways , and there appeared , also , in his form , all the vigor and sprightliness of active youth and strong manhood . 
At night , when they retired alone to their sleeping apartment , he formed the subject of their consulation . 
They both acknowledged themselves favorably impressed in regard to him ; and it was their spontaneous , quick resolution , the next morning , to endeavor to find out what was possible to be known concerning him from the owner of the hut where they were , and , in every way within their reach , to become informed concerning him ; and , if what they could gather respecting him should be favorable , to make their proposals to him at once . 
Accordingly , the next morning , they took the first opportunity , when he was absent , to question their host about him . 
In reply to their interrogatories , he told them that he was the boldest and most expert hunter in that region . 
`` His aim with that long rifle you see by his side is deadly -- sure as a thunderbolt , '' said he . 
But , '' said he , `` that is not the most remarkable thing about him : he was wonderful knowing , he said , and could tell the wide forest as well as the white man could the streets of his city ; and he could read the sky and the signs of the weather , as the white man reads his book ; and besides , '' said he , `` old Le Beaux is a christian after his fashion , and a very good fashion it is too , '' said he , `` and many of your talkative , clamorous christians , that live in your christian land , would be all the better for learning of him how to do like a christain . 
said he , `` I could tell you some stories about his deeds that would make your eyes stare , and your mouth gape to hear , and which you would believe impossible for one man alone to accomplish . 
`` But , '' said he , on hearing the object for which they sought him , `` I doubt if you can induce him to go with you . 
Here the host was interrupted in his narrative , and being called out , left our friends to form their plans , and determine them as best they might with the information which he had given them . 
A few minutes after the host had left the room , Charles , thinking of his dogs which he had brought with him , and which were left in front of the door , went out to look after them . 
He valued them very highly for their real worth , as well as from the fact that they were a gift to him from one of his most esteemed and beloved friends . 
But Charles was very much surprised when he came out of the hut to find his two hounds standing at Le Beaux 's side , receiving his attentions very gladly , and apparently on the most amicable terms with him . 
His own dog , too , was with them , and they appeared to have agreed to keep the peace , although it was evidently hard work for the half-breed favorite to brook the presence of these strangers , and witness his master stroking their smooth coats with his hands , and occasionally a low half-suppressed growl would issue from him , and his opening mouth would display a pair of huge jaws , armed with white strong teeth ; but the hounds on seeing their master , instantly quitted Le Beaux and came up to Charles , wagging their tails and testifying their joy at again seeing him . 
`` They are very fine dogs , indeed , '' replied Charles , `` and I value them very much , but , sir , '' said he `` you are the first person that has ever attemtped to caress them succeeded . 
`` Certainly , sir , '' said Charles , `` I brought them from New York ; they were a gift to me from an old friend . 
`` Yes , '' said Charles , `` I can , without fear of contradiction , assure you that there are not a pair of better trained hounds to be found in the country . 
Charles thought this a good opportunity for opening his negotiations with him , and Jonathan having joined him , they sat down beside Le Beaux , and replied to his remarks : `` I should indeed be glad to have you hunt with my hounds ; and perhaps we may enjoy that pleasure together ; I am bound for the hunting groudns West , and wait only to find a friend and companion who is acquainted with these long forests , to set off . 
The old hunter watched Charles very closely while he was speaking , but not a clear birght eye was fixed straight upon him , and he lost not a word that was uttered . 
When Charles stopped speaking , Le Beaux asked him what his plan for his hunt was , and how far he meant to go , and how large a company he proposed to take with him . 
Charles , in reply , detailed to him his plan as we have already described it . 
When he came to speak of his motives and wished in regard to it , and the interest he felt for the red man , his feelings kindled , his eye beamed with warmth , and truth declard herself present with him in the earnest , deep tones of his voice . 
Le Beaux at this seemed much moved -- his countenance assumed a look of deep interest ; his eye sparkled with responsive sentiments , and his whole deeply moved listener ; and when Charles ceased , his features were animated , and glowing with excitement , for he was aware that he experienced a strange , thrilling feeling of enthusiasm , in the presence of this man . 
He had from the first moment he saw him , felt an unusual and strange interest in him , though he had not manifested it ; it had deepened , too , and in spite of himself , Charles would occupy his thoughts ; he felt in fact , a secret , spiritual influence upon him -- a reciprocal feeling , and knew from a conviction that sprang up spontaneously in his mind that he was to be deeply , intimately connected with his future welfare . 
`` Yes , '' said Le Beaux , when Charles finished speaking , `` I will willingly , gladly go with you . 
He spoke this in a firm , decided tone , like one whose mind is made up . 
Charles and his cousin started , and exchanged glances of surprise with each other ; there was something so singular in his abrupt address -- so unexpected was his sudden acceptance of their offer ; so gladly and even delightedly did he appear to grant their request , which they had been led to believe , would be so difficult for them to obtain from him . 
Besides , his manner and the tone which he used , was that of one who has deliberated , and reflected , and decided carefully and advisedly what he says . 
-- Something very like fear not unmixed with awe , took possession of the mind of Charles , but he almost instantly recovered from it . 
His cousin , who , as we have seen , formed a high opinion of Le Beaux at first sight , and had his opinion strengthened by what he had both heard and seen of him since then , and who never feared anything , was only glad that their proposition was so well received ; a little surprised perhaps , at the manner in which it was done , but he felt that they had secured an excellent guide , and one entitled to their confidence and esteem . 
Charles very warmly thanked him for the readiness with which he obliged them . 
His cousin joined his thanks with them , and then promising to see him again soon , they separated . 
said Charles . 
But you are not afraid of him , Charles , because he guessed right about us , are you ? 
`` No , '' said Charles , `` far from having any fear of him , I am inclined to put the greatest confidence in him ; and I see by the way in which he is treated here , that he is considered no common personage . 
`` Well done , Charles , '' said Jonathan , `` that 's what I call a plumper . 
But I have a rifle , Charles , I am not ashamed of , at any time , or in any place ; all I hope is , that my rifle is as well pleased with me as I am with it . 
`` Well , '' said Charles , we shall soon have an opportunity to display our skill ; for we shall leave immediately , if our good friend Le Beaux is prepared and willing to do so . 
`` Very well , '' said Charles , `` I am as anxious to leave as yourself , and there is no reason I know of , why we should remain here longer , now that we have obtained a guide , and unless Le Beaux has something to keep him , we will start at once . 
Charles and his companion did not disturb him ; but , as the evening was quite spent , they soon bade him good evening , and left him . 
The next morning when they came to the breakfast table they missed the two guests of the previous evening ; and inquiring of their host after them , he told them they had been gone many hours , and ere this time were many miles distant on their journey . 
After breakfast Charles said to Le Beaux that he was anxious , as soon as possible , to be on his way , and asked him when he should be ready to leave . 
Charles thanked him for his kindness , and after a little further consideration about the baggage they were to take , and the route they were to pursue , they concluded to be all ready , if possible , to leave the following day . 
Charles soon followed him ; and , as on the preceding evening , they took their seats in front of the cabin , having first lighted their cigars , and again entered into conversation with Le Beaux . 
`` As it was late in the evening , '' said Charles , -LRB- whose words we shall hereafter use , -RRB- we soon left him , sitting there motionless , absorbed in his own secret , profound reflections . 
When he had completed this task : `` Well , '' said he , in a satisfied , positive tone , `` better built , more hardy , tough , trim , sleek looking ponies I never have seen ; I am sure by the cut of the critters and the flash of the eye , they are regular grit , high mettled devils : just look at their windows , Charles ; did you ever see a keener , sharper , more fiery eye-ball in the head of man or beast , in your life ? 
I 'll be bound we shall have some fine scampers on the backs of those fellows , this winter , Charles . 
I should just like to see the buffalo that would pretend to take a turn with them ; I 'd take him off his legs Just let 's see you mount that little critter , Charles ; take care , you 'll have to mind your p 's and q 's , or he 'll give you a wist . 
At the same time , dismounting and holding him by the bridle , he said to Charles , `` It 's your turn , now , cousin ; come , let 's see what sort of a beast you 've got there . '' 
Charles at once mounted his horse , and in better style , too , than his cousin , resolving not to be outdone by him . 
Catching the bridle , as he jumped upon him , quick as thought away bounded the horse , rearing , jumping , and plunging , first to one side then to the other , like a mad bull . 
Charles sat him as firmly as though he were a part and parcel of him , and quickly bringing him in , he turned about , and , at an easy pace , rode him to the starting place . 
Rabbits , too , frequently crossed their track , and often was their speed augmented , and their timid natures startled into terror , by the watchful blood-hounds that followed Charles , which would sometimes spring after them , and pursuing them , make the old woods echo with the deep baying of their open throats , until recalled by the hunter 's whistle . 
Just as he did this , the hounds came up ; Charles kept them back as they stood impatiently licking their jaws . 
Charles immediately called in his hounds , that stood at their post , as the advanced guard , and bade them lay down , at the same time bestowing praise on them and patting them kindly for their watchfulness . 
Charles fired at them , and hit them so handsomely as to draw forth the loud praises of the whole party , and fully establish his reputation as a bold , sharp shot . 
Le Beaux directed the half-breeds to move one side a short distance , that they might be out of reach of the buffalo , in case he should become furious by being wounded , and be disposed to attack his pursuers , and then motioned to Charles and his cousin to follow him . 
As they approached him , Le Beaux , who had the lead , suddenly wheeling on one side , darted across his track , and passing in front of him , a few yards distant , sent a ball from his rifle , which , striking him on the shoulder , brought him down upon his knees . 
Charles and Jonathan , both hot for the chase , followed hard after him , and riding up abreast of the tired animal , from whom the blood was fast flowing through several open wounds , at the same instant leveled their rifles at him , and so true and fatal was their aim , that the balls entered his vitals . 
This was too much for the brave animal : he made a stout fight for his life , and had already led his foes a long flight ; and though bullet after bullet , shot from the cruel rifle , had entered his body , he had not fallen or yielded , but bravely held on his flight ; but these last , unexpected shots , from a new and fresh enemy , had given him a death-wound . 
They had struck within an inch of each other , passing , as I have already said , through his vitals . 
Springing , with a last mighty struggle , into the air , he fell headlong to the ground , the blood spouting in streams from his mouth and nose . 
Quick the hounds came up , and springing upon him , fixed their sharp teeth into his strong sides . 
He gave instinctively a few feeble , faint struggles , and then lay stretched out dead before them . 
Charles quickly called the dogs off , while Le Beaux , riding up , jumped from his horse , and taking his hunting knife , passed it across the buffalo 's throat ; then , re-loading his rifle , and telling his companions to do the same , he called all of his party up to him , and then made a sign for the Indians to come forward . 
Charles watched them with eager curiosity and strong interest . 
It was the first time he had enjoyed the opportunity of seeing the Indian in his native home , and in his own wild costume . 
He saluted the leader , who , from some little extra ornaments that were appended to his dress , was distinguished as their chief , with an expression of sudden satisfaction ; he returned the salutation , recognizing at once , the guide as an old acquaintance ; and then turning round to his followers , addressed a few words to them in their own tongue , the purport of which Charles did not understand ; but he saw that they had the effect at once to put them more at ease ; though they still cast suspicious glances upon the animals that had broken up their sport so singularly , and which were now quietly standing by their master 's side . 
He cautioned Charles to keep his hounds by him , as they would serve to keep the Indians at a respectful distance and prevent their attempting to plunder , `` For , '' said he , `` notwithstanding their smooth tongues , they are a thievish , lying pack , and will carry off whatever they can lay hold of . '' 
He further told them that the leader of this party , Otter , was well known to him , that he was a great chief among them , and exercised a powerful control over them ; and after they had smoked the pipe of friendship , which it was customary to present to their friends , they would then be safe -- not from thievish attacks , he added , but from bodily harm . 
Charles and Jonathan , with Le Beaux , dismounted immediately , and giving their horses in charge of the half-breeds , they cautioned them not to leave them for an instant , and to call them in case of any accident . 
Charles replied to him , thanking him and his people for their hospitality , and declaring his desire to feast with them . 
When he finished , the pipe was lighted , and first being placed in the hands of the chief who had addressed them , and he having puffed a few clouds of smoke , then passed it to Charles , and so it went round the circle , from one to another , till all had received it . 
Charles and his cousin performed feats , in the way of demolishing the substantials before them , which would have amazed the gourmands of the east , when in their prime ; but they found themselves no match for their new companions : long after they ceased eating , having completely gorged themselves , the red men kept on , with unabated spirit and energy : they ate as though they had not tasted food for days , and did not expect to have another opportunity for days to come ; and so , like the camel on the desert and parched plains , who drinks water sufficient for days at one draught , they seemed bent to ward off hunger for a long time , by taking , at this meal , enough for a week at least . 
Charles and his cousin looked on in perfect amazement : they did not deem it possible for any thing human , or in the shape of man , to devour so much . 
Charles having asked Otter whether he would be allowed to visit the lodges in the village , and receiving from him assurance that he would be welcome whenever he might wish to go , with his cousin set off on a stroll through the village . 
As he passed along , he frequently stopped to observe the sports with which the young sanaps , or male Indians , diverted themselves , and passed their time . 
In these little circles of females , Charles observed there was not that restraint , that studied reserve , which prevailed among the men . 
Charles had learned the words of greeting that were used in her tribe , and immediately gave this salutation . 
-- She raised her eyes again to his , and replied to him , at the same time motioning him with her hand to be seated . 
Oh how he longed for the knowledge to speak to this fair creature in her own tongue ! 
What a pleasure it deprived him of ; but it was vain to regret it . 
Charles gallantly advanced to receive them , and retaining her hand in his own , while he bade her farewell , as a last token -LRB- for you know he could only address in this way -RRB- drew her to him and implanted a warm kiss upon her lips , and then departed , bearing his gift with him . 
On arriving at the lodge , he found the little party awaiting him , ready to leave : bidding his host , and the other chiefs good-bye , and waving his hand to the fair girl who stood at the door of her lodge , looking after him , they departed . 
Charles , taking better aim , discharged a second pistol , which brought her to the earth in a dying struggle . 
For a long time they kept up the sport , the guide coolly looking on most of the time , watching the young men , and occasionally selecting carefully a fat cow , he sent the ball with unerring aim through the heart . 
To such a mind as Charles possessed -- so highly imaginative , so highly cultivated , and always eager to discover the grand and beautiful manifestations of nature , this spot afforded the greatest delight . 
He could never tire of roaming among the flowery dells that lay in the bosom of the sweet valleys , filling the air with their delicious perfume , and lading the breeze with the sweetest odors ; or , winding his way along the banks of the gently murmuring streams , that were carpeted with soft green grass , and variegated with wild flowers . 
These were scenes to bless his repose and sweeten his reflections . 
For other moments of excitement and restlessness , the grand but terrible display of nature 's power and might -- the awfully sublime -- the lofty mountains , with all their wild scenery and undisturbed solitude , offered him a refuge -- a place that would suit the wildest tumult of the soul , and awaken a feeling sense of the power and wisdom and might of their and his Creator . 
Charles had now acquired sufficient of the Delaware tongue to be able to hold conversations , upon all ordinary topics , in that language with Le Beaux , and he was constant and persevering in his efforts to master it . 
Charles loved to listen to the anecdotes he recounted of their bravery , their honesty , and the sacred regard they invariably paid to their pledged word . 
All these traits were illustrated by a thousand incidents that had passed under our guide 's observation , and showed that he was well acquainted with the tribe . 
He told his young friends that he should not be at all surprised if they met the Delawares in this vicinity during the winter ; they were bold hunters , he said , and brave horsemen , and wandered farther from their villages than the other tribes . 
Charles , who was most anxious to become acquainted with a tribe whom he knew already from the many descriptions Le Beaux had drawn of them , eagerly said he did sincerely hope that they might meet them ; it would afford him the greatest satisfaction , and he was now able to speak to them in their own tongue , too , he said , laughing . 
Possessing a mind naturally reflective , and strong common sense , he had indulged in the one to his profit , and been judiciously guided by the other in his efforts ; he therefore was better able to judge , and more ready to appreciate the elevated character of Charles , than many whose advantages had been tenfold greater than all the aids and helps of civilization . 
As he listened his heart expanded and his feelings warmed towards Charles . 
Now he loved him with a strong and everenduring love ; he loved him as if he were his son , and secretly in his own heart resolved to watch over him , and serve him with all his strength . 
-- Charles noticed this , and mentioned it to the others . 
They soon came up , and Charles and his cousin were surprised to see a tall , noble-looking Indian leap from his horse and salute Le Beaux , who hastily stepped forward to meet him , and seized his hand with every appearance of pleasure and strong friendship . 
They talked together for a few moments , when Le Beaux , guiding him to where Charles stood , presented to him his adopted son , Ottahontas . 
Ottahontas was tall , very tall , and straight as an arrow ; his head was large , but well formed ; his hair and eye-brows black as jet ; his eye , that sparkled beneath his heavy eye-brows , was keen and proud as the eagle 's , and seemed as if it would look into your secret soul as it scrutinized you . 
His form was stouter than our hero 's , but closely knit and muscular ; his limbs were fashioned most beautifully -- round and tapering at the extremities , they exhibited proofs of that great agility and strength for which the chief was remarkable ; the whole bearing and carriage of the man lofty and noble , he looked as if nature had fitted him to rule his fellows . 
Charles we have already described . 
He presented them both to Charles in due form . 
Charles entered into conversation with him in the evening , while Le Beaux was deeply engaged in the account Ottahontas and Wahallah gave him of their journey . 
Charles addressed him in his own language . 
Shooshoone 's eyes glistened as he listened to his white brother speaking his own language , and he did not attempt to hide the pleasure it afforded him . 
He replied in the same language , although he spoke the English quite fluently . 
Charles asked him if there were many lodges in the party . 
Among them , he said , was Wahallah 's lodge , and , also , his father 's ; and the Flower of the Valley came , too , with them . 
Charles asked him what he meant by the Flower of the Valley . 
Shooshoone hesitated for a moment , and looked as though he felt surprised that he should ask such a question , or be ignorant of the loveliest maiden the tribe could boast . 
He , however , soon launched forth again , and spoke her praises in such terms as not only left no doubt on his mind as to whom the Flower of the Valley might be , but even raised his curiosity , and excited an interest in his heart with regard to her . 
In answer to his questions , Shooshoone said her step was light as the fawn 's , the grass scarce bent beneath it , the dew-drops were scarce shaken from the leaf that she dove 's , her voice sweeter than the robin 's song , her lips like ripe cherries , and dark roses flowered on her fair cheeks ; her silky hair was more shining than the humming bird 's plumage , and blacker than the night-clouds ; her voice , again he said , was like all sweet birds that ever sung -- now the robin 's notes were repeated from her lips , and now the lark 's sweet song was warbled on her tongue : like all she sings , said he , but better than them all . 
Charles asked him if there were among them no chiefs who wished to marry her . 
`` The sun shines not in the night , '' said he ; `` the dove mates not with the eagle . 
No , brother , '' said he , `` she will never marry an Indian , '' and he sighed as he uttered this declaration . 
`` It shall , '' said Charles . 
Thus did Charles and the youthful chief pass the evening , in speaking of the Delawares , Charles often asking questions , and listening with pleasure to the ready answers and beautiful language of his friend . 
Charles resolved that he would soon visit the Delawares ' camp , and spend some time with them , while Jonathan should continue the trapping and trading business of the camp . 
After supper our hero had a long conversation with Le Beaux , upon the contemplated visit to the Delawares ; and it was agreed that they -- that is , Charles , Le Beaux , and the two Delaware chiefs -- should set out as soon as they could get ready , leaving Jonathan and Ottahontas in charge of the camp , with the two half-breeds . 
-- Charles selected from his stock many articles for presents , which he intended to give the chiefs . 
Charles could not help laughing to himself , as he was thus engaged , at the idea of his deliberately picking out these articles for the Indian belle , whom he had never seen . 
None of that hesitation and tumultuous palpitation and wild throbbing of the heart , which so often afflicts and torments the white dandy , as he selects and purchases some bauble love-token to please the eyes of his heart 's chosen ; no calculating whether she will be so kind , so particularly condescending , as to accept it ; or whether she will laugh at him for his presumption , and ridicule him for his daring folly . 
And , then , the framing of his speech , in which he humbly begs her acceptance of the trifling present , and hopes she will wear it on his own , sole , particular account . 
None of these ; but , like a woman selecting potatoes for the pot , he overhauls carelessly his store , and readily chooses his presents , and puts them into his packet . 
-- But we will see by and by how he feels and how he acts with regard to this same maiden , and whether an Indian belle is so very different from a city belle -- whether her gallants are not as courteous , as ardent , and as watchful to please her , as any buck that sports his laced collar and well-trimmed mustache , for his lady to admire , in the refined and polished city circle . 
The Delawares were much pleased that the white chief , as they styled Charles , was to return with them . 
They were already much pleased with him . 
Charles loved to talk of the red men , and to ask questions of Shooshoone concerning their lands , their language , their tribe , and all their customs ; and often would he break forth in their praise , as Shooshoone related some anecdote , illustrating their devotion to their chiefs , or their love for the land that held the boues of their fathers ; or their exploits in war , showing the personal prowess of their great warrior-chiefs . 
It would call forth his admiration , and remind him of the tales he had read of the chivalry of the old feudal times . 
There was much , to his mind , that resembled it in those untaught natives of his own land . 
It was still some miles distant , and Wahallah proposed going forward to inform his people that guests were approaching , with the desire to hunt with them , and remain at their village during the winter . 
Charles thought this singular deportment in his friend , but the guide told him that he was one of the leading chiefs , and it was the custom of the tribe for the chiefs to receive their visitors in a body , and Wahallah had gone back to join them , but he would soon see him again . 
After having proceeded awhile in silence , they were interrupted by Le Beaux , who said to Charles -- `` Look yonder : they are coming to meet us . '' 
Charles suffered his eyes to take the direction pointed out to him ; and there , them , were a large body of Indians , all mounted on horseback . 
It gave him great satisfaction to entertain the white chief , so great an impression had Charles already made upon him , not only from the presents he had received from him , but because of his wise talk , as he called it , and his noble bearing . 
He was pleased at the quickness with which Charles made the discovery , and the truth which had been so suddenly developed by him . 
He , therefore , in a pleasant tone , said to him -- `` Well , really , you are a very shrewd man , to see through so complete a disguise at a single glance . 
So thought Charles . 
There was one exception to this wholesale eating in the ranks : that was observed in M. Boileau , who had now come in for an increased share of Charles ' attention , that he had gleaned a few facts from Le Beaux , in conversation with him , of his history . 
He ceased eating about the same time that Charles did , who thought himself wonderful for his powers of stuffing . 
Charles felt an inclination to take a nap after he had retired to his lodge , but his attentive host was already at his side , with the tempting pipe -- that emblem of all that is good and true and noble in Indian life and character -- that dear friend , to whom they fly for comfort and consolation in peace and war , in hope and despair . 
Is it strange , then , that Charles shook off his drowsiness , and put his mouth eagerly to one of these blessed instruments ? 
For a long time he sat smoking , and ruminating all the while , upon the strange scenes he had just witnessed . 
When he had finished he carefully knocked the ashes from the bowl , and looking lovingly upon it , handed it back to Wahalla ; then rising he took his cap and gun in his hand , and turning to his companious told them he was going to take a stroll in the woods near the village , and would be back soon . 
His faithful hounds , that we last saw on the track of the flying deer , now watching the movements of their master , slowly roused themselves from sleep , and getting up , prepared to follow him . 
Charles stood for some minutes , gazing with pleasure on the scene , and watching the movements of the fish . 
As he at last cast his eyes along the banks , up and down the stream , he saw not far below where he stood , a small , slight canoe that lay by the bank , fastened by a cord . 
Curious to examine it , he took his way to the spot , and coming up , his curiosity was a good deal heightened as he discovered on examining it , that it was singularly modeled , and constructed most skillfully , with evident attention to beauty . 
Charles examined it long and attentively , and as he did so , wondered to whom it might belong . 
He thought it too fragile and little for a man 's use , and everything about it denoted it a pleasure bark , rather than one for common use . 
But he puzzled his brains in vain ; he could arrive at no satisfactory conclusion with regard to it . 
As he turned round and looked up the bank , he discovered near where he stood , a little sylvan arbor . 
Charles now felt persuaded that there was something more than the untutored and rude taste of the Indian in these woods , that had formed these really beautiful structures . 
It looked to him more like the garden bower of an Eastern princess , than the tent of a North American Indian girl . 
But he resolved to enter and see if there was not something within this enchanting little arbor , that would give him a clue to its owner . 
But in vain he searched every nook and corner ; nothing rewarded his efforts . 
And after having gone over it some half dozen times at least , he sat down as wise as when he commenced . 
After sitting a few minutes , he concluded that he would wait here for the approach of its tenant , and in this way discover the mystery . 
He accordingly stretched himself at full length on the soft boughs , and taking off his cap , he placed it under his head , laid his gun by his side , while his dogs stretched themselves at his feet . 
-- This was a dangerous position for a man to take after a hearty dinner , if he wishes to keep awake . 
But Charles did not intend to remain to the lodge . 
Such was his resolution . 
for his resolution . 
A few minutes only had passed in this quiet spot , upon his really soft couch , ere he had fallen into a quiet slumber . 
He had been asleep for more than an hour . 
-- He dreamt of fairies dwelling in rustic bowers , in wild solitudes , and clothed in more than mortal beauty and purity . 
-- And he would see them skimming the smooth water in painted barges , and little fairy boats , that floated gracefully over the waves , propelled by their slender hands . 
A smile was breaking over his face , his long , silken , dark eye-lashes , that fell upon his cheek , trembled ; his long clustering curls fell down his neck and over the side of his face , partly hiding his white forehead ; his red lips slightly parted . 
His neck was mostly exposed , his collar having fallen back from his throat , exposing the clear white skin . 
As beautiful , voluptuous a spectacle he presented , while there he lay in graceful ease , as a real , living , breathing Apollo . 
Just at this moment , had he been awake , he might possibly have heard a light , merry footstep , that came tripping over the grass in a different direction from that which he had taken , and approaching the bower , with a smiling face , the stranger turned at the opening of her accustomed haunt , when suddenly a sight met her eyes that checked her course and arrested her step , and caused her to draw back . 
But she did not scream or faint ; but listening a moment to the breathing that came from the intruder upon her privacy , she carefully advanced again , and as she looked upon the young pale face that was thus sweetly slumbering , the blood mounted to her face and neck , and a modest blush suffused them both with a deep glow ; her heart beat quicker in her bosom . 
His exceeding beauty , now that she saw him , -LRB- for at first she had only discovered that there was some one in her arbor -RRB- , fascinated her , and held her gaze riveted upon him . 
Her fond and tender heart overflowed towards him , and feelings such as her heart had never known before , stirred within her . 
The trusty hounds that lay at his feet , raised their heads and glanced quietly at her , then , as if knowing their master was safe in such hands , offered no opposition to her advance . 
As if impelled by an irresistible fate , she slowly , step by step , advanced towards the sleeper , stopping at each step , and listening carefully , lest she might awaken him . 
She reached his side , and stooping over him , she gazed upon him with looks of love and melting tenderness . 
And there by his side she sat ; still , scarcely breathing , lest she should disturb his slumber , gazing eagerly upon his face . 
Every feature , every line was impressed upon her heart with a power that would never suffer it to be effaced . 
She compared him with all she had ever seen before ; but how mean did they all seem when contrasted with him . 
She almost fancied that he was a sleeping angle , and feared he would spread his golden wings and seek the sky , should he awake . 
As she hung over him brushing away the flies that sought to light upon his face , and watching his every movement , his lips parted , and a low sound came from between them . 
She bent low her ear , as if to catch the sound , but it died away in an indistinct murmur , and came not again . 
Then of a sudden , he turned round on his side , with his face towards her ; as he did so , his hair fell over his face , and disturbed him . 
She gently put back with her soft , little , plump hand , the truant curls . 
As she did so , her hand touched his cheek ; at the touch , a thrill ran through her whole frame , filling it with the most delightful , most exquisite sensation , and sent the blood swiftly through her veins . 
Her love grew as she gazed upon him , and ere she herself knew it , or ere he had opened his eyes , she had yielded up her heart to the sleeping stranger . 
She had found in this youth , the ideal image she had pictured in her dreams . 
Alone in the woods , in her private bower , as if dropped there from the skies , she had found him . 
`` Would that it were so , '' he murmurs to himself . 
But he almost fears to open his eyes once more , lest the sweet vision shall have fled . 
Slowly he opens them again . 
'T is true ; there by his side sits the fairy . 
With blushing modesty her eyes are veiled beneath her silken lashes ; her swelling bosom heaves full plainly to his sight , beneath her light mantle . 
Her breath is almost on his cheek . 
`` Yes , '' he exclaims , `` it is , it is a blessed reality , and you are not a spirit , a phantom of a dreamy brain . '' 
In eager , but beseeching tones , he utters these words . 
She starts at the sound of his voice , and lifts her eyes to his flushed and excited countenance . 
-- If she admired him while sleeping , how is she now fascinated as his bright , sparkling eyes , lighting up his whole countenance , and giving life and expression with double force , are turned in admiring gaze upon her . 
She understood very well the language he used , and a slight smile at his eager words , and ardent , wondering look , broke over her face . 
Charles saw it , and this at once recalled him to his senses , which had wandered a little at first . 
Rising at once , and blushing deeply , he attempted an apology for his intrusion . 
He had not meditated for a moment the purpose of sleeping there , he said . 
He had for a minute or two rested , but sleep over-took him before he was aware of it . 
He hoped she would pardon him for the intrusion . 
While he spoke , the rich tones of his manly voice came upon her ear like sweet music . 
She hardly dared to look at him , and yet she desired to do so . 
When he ceased speaking , he humbly and anxiously awaited her answer . 
In a soft , silvery voice she answered him , that no apology was needed for his intrusion . 
She was glad indeed , very glad , her little arbor had afforded him a shelter . 
It was a great pleasure to her to find him there ; she would love to have him come there and rest himself often ; and would he not come to her father 's lodge ? 
As she spoke , Charles , who now had regained his presence of mind , jumped at once to the conclusion which his quickened senses pointed out . 
Yes , thought he , it is she ; it is Coquese , the Valley Flower , that Shooshoone spoke of . 
And with this conclusion , he raised his eyes to see more fully her queenly beauty . 
-- As he did so , he thought he had never beheld so fair , so rich a beauty before in his life . 
From these Charles suffered his eyes to wander again to her face , and wondered at the dark , and beautifully penciled eye-brows , which o'erarched her lustrous eyes . 
Charles was spell-bound by her beauty and her loveliness . 
A strange reluctance , or rather diffidence , seized his tongue , and made him speak broken sentences and stammering words , when he attempted to address her . 
The simplicity , the ready confidence , and affectionate reception which she offered him , all made a strong impression upon him , and called forth such feelings from his heart as all the wealth and all the polish and glittering attractions that had assailed him in civilized society , had failed to awaken . 
It was love which , although he knew it not , nor would acknowledge it , perhaps , even to himself , was yet destined to fill his heart , and sway his future life . 
At others -- as in the case of Charles and Coquese -- it leaps , at a single bound , over all barriers , and a glance as fully and as completely enthrals the heart with its strong , enduring bands , as if it had been the idol they had cherished in their hearts from childhood . 
Charles soon regained his self-possession , and recovered his lost power of speech . 
He lingered by the side of his new found treasure , delighted to listen to her voice , to watch her lovely countenance , to study her every motion . 
His whole soul was at once centred in her ; he forgot everything else in her presence ; and , now , he tells her of his ramble , and how , by chance , his footsteps wandered to this spot ; how the little canoe , which he now learns from her own pretty lips , is her own , caught his eye ; how he admired it , and how he praised its beauty , and wonders how she can guide it in the be her companion , and to ply the delicate little paddles in the deep stream , with her seated at his side . 
Tenderly did Charles support the fair girl , and joyfully and smilingly did she look up into his face , as she pointed out the path she now trod so happily . 
He said that he should take every opportunity to cultivate his acquaintance and friendship , while he remained amongst them ; for it was not often , as Le Beaux said , that such as Charles were to be found traveling in these wilds . 
A thousand plans were formed , and in them all , Charles had a conspicuous part to play , and this dear girl was to be his only partner ; she would take him all to herself , she would have him alone where none could steal away a moment of his loved presence from her , or warm beneath his sweet , enchanting smile , or catch the soft , delightful tones of his dear voice . 
But where is Charles , all this time ? 
and how fares it with him ? 
We left him just entering his lodge , full of tender feelings towards the Indian maid , that was almost a stranger to him , and whom , a few short hours before , he had never seen . 
Le Beaux was waiting his return , and Charles thought he could detect a knowing look in his honest face , as he entered ; but if so , there was no other sign that he had a knowledge of the use Charles had made of his time , since he went out : for he , in a careless , good-humored tone , asked him if he had enjoyed his walk , and what he thought of the country about the village . 
He said there was a very pretty stream a short distance south of the village , where an abundance of excellent fish were to be found , and it was , moreover , a favorite retreat for M. Boileau 's family , and some others of the tribe . 
Charles , perhaps , might have had a slight suspicion that Le Beaux knew a good deal about that stream , and farther , that he knew what was done there sometimes , and especially this afternoon ; he in turn , therefore , sought to discover what the sharp-witted guide did know , and with an indifferent air , asked him if he had been walking since dinner . 
This was satisfactory to Charles , who was anxious to question Le Beaux about Coquese and her family , and he thought this afforded an excellent opportunity to do so , without exciting the curiosity of Le Beaux . 
Charles asked him how long he had known the family of M. Boileau , and whether their eldest daughter , Coquese , had ever been to the white settlements . 
Truth was stamped upon his face , and in his tone , while he spoke , which convinced Charles that he was in earnest ; and while he was somewhat surprised at what he heard , he was not the less pleased to hear her praises from the mouth of one who had his entire confidence , for his honesty and integrity , and whom he highly respected for his sense and intelligence . 
Charles was pleased to hear their new acquaintance so highly spoken of , and continued to ask such questions as would give him a farther knowledge of her character , and life , and education . 
To all these questions , he found Le Beaux an interested listener , and a ready respondent . 
With these feelings in his mind , then , the reader will not wonder that he spoke so fluently , and often made long digressions in his answers to Charles , that he might give him a better idea of the treasure that any man who should obtain her , would possess in Coquese . 
And did Charles fret and grumble at this round about way of answering his questions ? 
No , on the contrary he listened with the most pleasurable interest , and encouraged him by his manner and words to proceed . 
In this conversation the evening passed rapidly away , and it was rather late at night before they retired to rest , both well pleased with the evening 's entertainment , and Charles more in love than ever with the subject of their conversation . 
He had learned from Charles , since they had been together , what his views were in relation to the society he had left behind him , and also in what light he held the character of the better portion of the wild Indian tribes ; and from this he was almost certain that when he did meet , as he meant that he should , with Coquese , he would at once become attached to her . 
Such was the character and such the accomplishments of our dusky maid , with whom Charles had scarcely contracted an acquaintance ere he had given her his first -- his ardent love ; and from whom , at the close of their first interview , he had parted with such reluctance ; whose image had floated before his vision in dreams of bliss and happiness that night . 
He was early up the next morning , and impatient of the delay which held him waiting for breakfast ; for he could not , without offence , neglect his host , who was all attention and kindness towards him . 
Charles replied that he would remain at home that day ; that he did not yet wish to commence hunting there , but should like to become better acquainted with the tribe . 
`` But , '' said he , `` before doing what you propose , I shall take a short walk . '' 
Now , the fact was , he more than half suspected , when he left Mr. Boileau , and Coquese had not returned , and Charles also was absent , that they had met , but it was only a suspicion . 
He knew nothing further . 
The evening 's conversation confirmed , his suspicion , and , now that Charles so , readily gave up the plan of visiting the lodges , so quickly , too , or rather delayed it , when he had left the camp almost for the express purpose of learning by actual observation , more than otherwise he could do , of the Indian character and habits . 
He felt he was right in his conjecture , and the conviction that he was so showed itself in the way we have mentioned . 
He , of course , made no opposition to such an arrangement , but said he would wait for him , and he supposed he would not be gone long , unless he should accidentally meet Mr. Boileau 's pretty daughter , who had interested him so much when he should certainly forgive him if he took the liberty to stay all day ; `` for , '' said he , not appearing to notice Charles ' confusion , `` she is a most beautiful girl as you ever saw , as I believe I have already told you several times before . '' 
Charles to take the path which yesterday had led him to such a strange , but pleasant mention made of revisiting it to-day , he did so with the hope -- nay , the feeling that he should meet Coquese there again . 
Quick though they be , and will soon leave us behind if we are not in haste , love gives wings to its children , says some one , and I should think this might be the case by the way Charles went down the winding path to the bower by the little silver stream . 
It was early in the forenoon when he came to the spot where he stood the day before , when he first discovered the little canoe . 
The scene seemed to smile upon him in its solitary loveliness . 
He stood still a moment , while he looked around him , and then with a beating heart and slower pace he turned his steps to seek the bower where he had first seen her by accident , who was now so eagerly sought after by him . 
As he approached in view of the spot , he looked quickly to see her there , but the view was obstructed by intervening trees , and showed but a part of the little retreat . 
And , now , his path winding around in another direction , brought him opposite the side of the little tent , so that the front , which alone was open , and could give him a view of the inside , was hid from his gaze , and it was not until he had fairly reached it , and stood at the entrance , that he could know whether Coquese was there or not ; but the first look that he cast within put his doubts to flight at once . 
She had heard his step , and her first impulse had been to fly and meet him , but she , at the instant , checked herself ; a feeling of modesty stopped her , and kept her to her seat . 
As he appeared at the entrance , however , she quietly rose to meet him , and gave him her hand as he greeted her with the morning salutation . 
She blushed deeply in spite of herself , and stood with her hand resting in his for a few minutes , while he inquired after her health , and spoke of the happiness it gave him to meet her again . 
In a few minutes she withdrew her hand from its willing prison and , smiling , she invited him to take a seat by her , which , as a matter of course , he very readily did . 
-- She had a book in her hand when he entered , and still continued to hold it , but of course it was shut ; and she , turning to him , did not attempt , as our city young ladies would have done under such circumstances , to have been astonished and surprised to see him there , although they might have gone there for the express purpose of meeting the very individual whom they spoke to ; and would in reality have been surprised and disappointed too , had he not come . 
No , she was perfectly artless ; free from all foolish affectation ; and in her looks and in her voice there was written the pleasure she felt in seeing him ; had she not told him , as she quickly did , with sweet grace , in a low voice , that she knew he would come again , this morning , and she ran down to meet him ; it was so delightful to be with him . 
She had left her mother and little sisters at home , she said , but she was afraid he would be disappointed if he did not find her there . 
Charles was filled with joy as she spoke to him in this artless manner . 
He took her hand again ; he could not help it ; it lay so close to him ; it looked so enticing too ; and gazing fondly into her face , `` my dear Coquese , '' said he , `` I owe you a thousand thanks for thinking so kindly of me , and greeting me so smilingly , and for coming down to the stream , that I might not be disappointed . 
How charming she is , thought Charles , and what a fond , loving heart she has , too . 
Then , speaking aloud , he said , `` You make me happy , indeed , Coquese , by what you say . 
Coquese smiled at his words , which he spoke with ardor . 
No , no , I am thankful you are not a nymph , '' said he , `` so long as I can see you and be with you . 
Charles smiled at her simplicity , but could not help wondering more at the mixed character she possessed . 
Charles could hardly keep from laughing as Coquese , in the same breath almost , and with all the ardor of a curious child , asked these several questions . 
My name is Charles Stanley ; my sister 's Isabella , and we both have the same names that our respective parents bear . 
I knew it must be a very pretty name , I was sure of it , '' and she repeated it again and again , `` and now I shall call you Charles , shall I not , I like it so much ? 
Do you love to live in the Indian wigwam , Charles ? '' 
Her bright eyes sparkled and her face beamed with pleasure as he said this , and he felt the little hand he held gently press his own . 
Then she added , `` I love to hear you say so , Charles . 
how dearly , and all these you can not have in your city home , Charles . '' 
`` You are right , Coquese , '' replied he , `` we can not have these beautiful gifts of our bountiful Creator , but men seek to supply their place by introducing dead , and lifeless imitations of them . 
`` It is a cruel world , Charles ; I do not love it , now that you have told me this . 
I wish to know all about your own home , Charles . '' 
And Charles did tell the curious Coquese much that was strange and new to her of his own home , and of the customs and habits of the white man . 
When Charles told her that there were many ladies in the cities that had no other occupation but that of preparing and procuring their dresses , nay , even many whose whole lives were spent in barely arraying themselves in fashionable dresses which were prepared for them , that they might be elegant and beautiful , she could not restrain her surprise and wonder . 
How it could be possible to sacrifice all those high and elevating pleasures which are placed before our race , for such a purpose , was beyond her comprehension ; but when he spoke of those whose lives were spent in bestowing blessings on all about them , in acts of benevolence and charity , in relieving the poor and destitute , and administering comfort to the sick and suffering , in contrast to the vain , giddy , empty crowd that flutter through life on idle wing to show their gaudy trappings , like butterflies that sport in the summer air ; how did her true and generous heart sympathize with them , and yield to them the ready tribute and respect which a noble and generous heart always feels in contemplation of what is truly elevating and worthy in human conduct . 
Coquese invited Charles to visit her father 's lodge and become acquainted with the family ; and though it would have delighted him to have done so , and satisfied a strong curiosity he felt concerning them , still he felt that it would not be in accordance with the customs of the tribe , who always left to the men both the introduction and reception of guests . 
They parted at her door , to which Charles had accompanied her ; when he immediately joined Le Beaux , whom he found sitting at the door of Wahalla 's lodge , looking out upon them . 
`` Well , '' said he , as Charles approached , `` I see you have discovered the lodge of the Flower of the Valley , what do you think of her ? '' 
`` She is an angel , '' said Charles , `` your description fell far short of her sweet perfection . 
Le Beaux smiled at the warmth and feeling with which he spoke of his favorite , but said nothing further . 
Charles , however , had too much in his teeming brain to keep silent long , and in a few minutes he said , `` I wonder , Le Beaux , that so fair a maid has not many lovers from the young men of the tribe . 
asked Charles , although he was well persuaded , from the intercourse he had had with her , that her heart was not another 's , but even believed that she felt towards him as he was now aware he did with regard to her . 
Charles was taken by surprise at this information , so suddenly and unexpectedly given . 
His blood boiled at the thought of the fair and lovely girl becoming the slave of any chief , and more especially the slave of the coarse , brutal being mentioned , whose only claim to respect or regard was founded upon his brute , physical strength . 
asked Charles , eagerly , the blood running quickly back to his heart . 
Le Beaux laughed at the angry heat Charles displayed , but , at the same time , cautioned him about Cilagu , called by his tribe the Red Hand ; and told him he was the first chief of the Black Feet . 
Charles said no more , but suddenly became thoughtful ; the information Le respecting Red Hand 's intentions upon Coquese , in spite of his firm belief that she already loved him , and in spite of the impossibility arising out of the difference that existed between them in feeling , in education , in habits ; in fine , in every point of character , rendered it utterly impossible there should ever be any sympathy , in thought or feeling , between them . 
Charles knew all this -- knew the weighty reasons that existed to force the Delawares to keep peace with this chief , and he trembled , lest these should rule the mind of M. Boileau . 
His conduct had led Charles to inquire his character of Le Beaux , and in answer to his inquiries he had gained the information we have just given , with this exception , that the guide had not before said anything of his love for Coquese . 
Now , that he knew this , he hated him with a good will , and determined to punish the first insolence he offered to him in a way that he should remember . 
Charles sat until he was aroused from his reflection by a summons to dinner . 
-- He had revolved all the circumstances which surrounded him again and again . 
He had questioned himself as to his feelings towards Coquese . 
How was it ; how did it happen that he had so suddenly and so warmly conceived such an interest in this girl ? 
and what were his intentions towards her ? 
These questions he put to himself , and the conclusion to which he arrived was worthy of his noble , high-minded character . 
He could but acknowledge to himself that he was more deeply interested and attracted to this obscure maiden , than he had ever been before in his life to any of the many females he had met . 
The difference in their education , and rank in life he did think of ; but , thought he to himself , if I can win her heart she shall be mine . 
Such was the result of Charles ' long deliberations . 
He did not know that he had , even when he first saw her , given himself to her ; but such , nevertheless , was the case , and had the same circumstances surrounded him then as now , his heart would as promptly have vindicated its power and control over him . 
With this resolution he determined to seek her society as much as possible , and use his efforts to gain her affections , which he more than half believed were already given to him . 
This resolution quieted his disturbed and excited mind , and when he joined Le Beaux , and his host at table , he entered freely , and with interest into the schemes and proposals they were discussing for a bear hunt . 
After dinner , Charles accompanied Le Beaux to several lodges ; all their doors were open to their guest , and by all whom he visited he was kindly treated . 
Charles saw much that he was pleased with , as he passed from lodge to lodge . 
The afternoon was spent in this way , almost , when Charles managed to extricate himself from any further visits , at that time , though he was pleased with them , and away he turned to seek the little bower , more eager than ever to meet Coquese . 
He had something to tell her , something to ask her , and some cautious hints to give her ; all which had arisen since he parted from her . 
Quietly seated in the little bower , with her book in her hand , this beautiful girl awaited him . 
Charles led the willing girl to her little seat , and sitting down beside her , ere she could have time to open her pretty lips to chide him for his lateness , he commenced a recital of his visits to her people , and all that had struck him as remarkable , or new and strange in their habits or conduct ; and what he did not understand , he brought to her for an explanation , it was so charming to hear her sweet voice and listen to her truthful and natural , artless words . 
And then he told her how he managed old Le Beaux , to extricate himself from his company , and this explained his absence for so long . 
He questioned her as to how long she had waited for him , and if she was anxious to see him . 
She was perfectly satisfied with his excuse ; she did not for a moment doubt that he was as well pleased and as happy to meet her , as was she to see him . 
Charles for a time forgot the information that Le Beaux had communicated to him in the morning , but now it came back to his mind , and he resolved to mention these facts to her ; and with this view , he asked her if she admired , as other females about her did , the hunter 's bold and stirring life ? 
Coquese , as Charles uttered these words , looked full into his face . 
Charles was surprised at the effect his words had produced , and bent an anxious , inquiring look upon her , as he ceased speaking . 
In a few moments she recovered herself , and turning again to him , -LRB- for she had bent down her face when he had spoken , and hid it in her hands -RRB- , in a calm voice , with a still pale face , though full of expression , she said to him , -- `` I believe you are right , Charles ; though it never occurred to me before , that such , in earnest , was his object . 
I never saw him but a few times before , and that only for a moment , as we passed through his district on our way to this spot . 
Charles , you know not what a terrible enemy he is , when he hates . 
`` Do not alarm yourself , dear girl , '' said Charles , `` he can not harm you . 
Charles was full of feeling , as he spoke his eye glared and his brow was knit as with firm resolve , his small lips were compressed ; he looked like one who would dare to undertake what he promised . 
Coquese gazed at him with eyes of love , she pressed his hand slightly for a minute , then withdrawing it , she hastily exclaimed , `` No ! 
Charles , you must not seek to quarrel with him . 
I pray you do not , '' and she looked beseechingly to him . 
`` I will seek no quarrel with him , Coquese , but he has already showed his bold insolence towards me , which has rendered him an object of dislike and disgust to me . 
I will not , mean not to notice his conduct towards myself , but should he dare to treat you in any other way but that of respect becoming your station and sex , I swear to you that I will punish the black-hearted villain , should it cost me my life . '' 
With such assertions did Charles endeavor to re-assure the mind of Coquese ; but now a greater fear than any that could arise for herself , took possession of her , and this in an instant revealed to her how much she loved Charles . 
She was more alarmed for him than for herself ; she feared that he would be slain by the savage , giant chief ; she knew how powerful he was , how unequal in strength Charles was to him . 
She begged him to avoid Red Hand , and if he met him to treat him kindly . 
Whatever might have been his supicions before , he had no fears now , that she would ever love this chief after this ; he felt certain that her affections were his ; he had watched her closely during the conversation , and every word , every look told him he was dearer to her than all else . 
It was late in the afternoon , and the dusky shades of evening had spread wide over the heavens , and rendered misty and indistinct the objects that break and diversify the surface of mother earth , by their darkening folds , ere Charles and Coquese bethought themselves of the necessity of returning to the village . 
As before , they took the path leading to the village , which Coquese had chosen , she leaning fondly on the arm of Charles , not for support , for her footsteps were light and elastic as the fawn 's , that bounds so lightly over the forest path , but she loved to feel his arm gently and fondly supporting her ; it was a token , a proof of all the love and fondness she wished and believed he felt for her ; and it was enough for her happiness that it was his own dear self , whom she so deeply loved , so fondly clung to . 
This feeling that he was by her side , that his loved hand was supporting her steps and protecting her way , should it not render her happy ? 
He cordially returned the salutation of Charles , and , arrived at the door of his lodge , invited him to enter . 
Charles readily accepted his invitation ; on entering , he saw M. Boileau 's wife , to whom he was introduced by his host . 
She asked Charles if he had been long from the white settlements , and if he was pleased with a forest life ? 
She inquired kindly after his family that he had left behind , and remarked that he must find it difficult to correspond with them in this part of the country . 
Charles answered readily that he was much pleased with the hunter 's pursuits , and his free , roving life ; there was a freedom and careless pleasure in it that suited his taste . 
His friends , he said he had not heard from for several months ; he left them in the fall , at which time they were well and happy ; but since he left St. Louis he had received no news of them ; and as for corresponding with them , he said he did not expect to be able to do so when he entered the forests , unless by accident he should have an opportunity . 
She said that it must have been a hard thing for him to have undertaken such a journey ; to have left all his friends and his pleasant home , and alone to journey so far to these forests , where he could find neither cities nor towns . 
She also remarked that he must , and doubtless had already missed many of the comforts which surrounded him in his native home . 
But Charles soon assured her that he suffered not for the lack of any comfort , that his health had been , and was excellent , and he regretted nothing but the presence of his friends , to whom he expressed his warm attachment , to render him completely happy . 
`` It is with a better appetite , '' said he , `` that I sit down to eat the food I have taken with my own labor , and prepared with my own hands ; and I relish it far better than the spiced dishes I have eaten in the city . '' 
Charles then spoke to the younger sisters of Coquese , who stood by their mother listening to the conversation , and casting wonderous looks towards him . 
-- He would have known their relationship to Coquese at once , from their resemblance to her , had she not before told him of them . 
These three daughters were all his children ; and we have already said sufficient of Coquese to convey to the reader the fact , that they must be beautiful children , as they resembled her . 
The youngest was about six years old , and Charles thought one of the prettiest and most interesting children he had ever seen . 
She was longing to come to him to see the beautiful sparkling pin he wore in his cravat , which had attracted her attention . 
-- When he called her to come and see him , she was afraid a little , but Coquese encouraged her , and took her seat by Charles ' side . 
This emboldened her , and she came up to him looking timidly in his face . 
He raised her on his knee and told her she was a good little girl , he knew . 
He played with her dark , curling hair , and soon she lost all timidity , and began to play , with all the full confidence and gaiety of her age , with him as if he had been an old friend . 
His open , handsome face had , at first , won her liking , and now he took so much pains to amuse her . 
She loved him ; she looked up in his face after a few minutes , and , pointing to his pin , asked him to give it to her , it was so pretty . 
Charles handed it to her , and after handling it a few minutes , and turning it over and over , she put it in her dress , and , laughing , she jumped down and went to her other sister to show it to her . 
She said nothing in reply , but taking it in her hand , with wistful looks , she brought it back to him . 
Charles then took a pretty string of beads from his pocket , and told her he would give her them . 
-- This made Charles her favorite at once . 
He was treated by all the members of the family as an old friend , though they were entirely ignorant -LRB- the rest , I mean -RRB- of the intimacy and affection which existed between him and Coquese . 
There was , in their manner towards him , just sufficient ceremony used to make him feel they were anxious and desirous to please him , without producing the restraint and reserve which make the introduction of a gentleman in fashionable life such an awkward performance as to render it a bore . 
Charles was seated at table next Coquese . 
She frequently would blush as she caught Charles ' eye fixed upon her ; and as she helped him to some dish , or received something from his hand , -- for he was as attentive and polite in serving her as if he were sitting by the side of some fine , gay , city belle , -- she answered his questions with much modesty and simplicity , but did not attempt to lead the conversation . 
She chose rather to listen to the conversation of her parents with Charles , and was highly gratified with observing the great interest and satisfaction they took in what he said . 
Charles was surprised to find so much and so full an acquaintance with the laws and politics of different governments in him . 
Many of the manners and customs of society he condemned in the severest terms . 
Their direct , their only influence upon men , he thought , was to render them selfish , heartless and deceitful . 
Ceremony and form , he said , were but a cloak with which men covered up and hid their real feelings and character . 
said Charles , `` are they not in their manner of life as selfish as the white ? '' 
`` I can but agree with you in what you have said of the habits and ways of our enlightened nations , '' said Charles , `` and I am ready to believe you have spoken rightly of the character of the Indian , from what I have already observed from my intercourse with them . 
`` But , '' said Charles , `` I look upon it as proving something in favor of society , that they deem it necessary to attribute these principles and their character , to those persons whom they would honor . 
Charles could not deny the truth of the reflection which M. Boileau then made upon society . 
-- This gave Charles an opportunity to pay more particular and direct attention to Coquese and her mother . 
Coquese was perfectly happy as she sat by the side of Charles and listened to his voice , and saw also around them all those dear friends whom she loved best on earth . 
Her spirits were buoyant and lively , and her native wit and sense displayed itself in a brilliant and captivating strain of conversation , that completely fascinated Charles . 
It was a delightful evening he spent in their rustic lodge , and it was with reluctance , at a late hour , that he rose to take his leave of them . 
-- Before doing so , however , he had seized the opportunity of a few minutes ' absence , on the part of the mother , of pressing the little hand of Coquese , which he had stolen unperceived by any in the room , and expressing to her how happy he was , and how delighted he was with her family . 
These were sweet words to her ear , and she loved him better than ever for it . 
As he was leaving , M. Boileau pressed him to visit them often ; and with familiarity Charles expressed to them the very great pleasure his visit had afforded him , and assured him that he should have no reason to complain of his negligence in calling upon them . 
And then , bidding them good night , he and Le Beaux returned to Wahalla 's lodge . 
On the way there he was eloquent in his praises of M. Boileau and his family , and kept Le Beaux , long after their return , a listener to his out-pourings of heart towards them . 
Charles spoke in the highest terms of the wife 's grace and dignity of manner . 
He wondered at the facility with which she had acquired such refined and lady-like manners . 
-- But , most of all , he was delighted with witty , so intelligent . 
Charles was entertained by his host and young Shoonshoone with many daring exploits of the tribe , in the hunting of this animal , that would have made a less courageous man hesitate about venturing upon their hiding places . 
This story was told Charles by Shoonshoone , who related it with the greatest interest , and seemed to envy Wahalla the exploit . 
Le Beaux attended to all the preparations necessary both for himself and Charles . 
During the course of the day , Charles had walked through the village and visited many of the lodges ; amongst others , he paid a visit to the lodges of the Black Feet , and entered the lodge of Red Hand , whom he found with his braves around him ; they did not appear busy like the others , but were lounging idly about the lodge , smoking , and talking to each other in their own tongue . 
They received him coldly , and treated him very much as an enemy would have been treated . 
Charles affected not to notice his manner , but very kindly , and readily replied that the bear hunt would be very pleasant for him ; that he loved to encounter dangerous animals , whether bear or any other that roamed in the forests ; that the greater the danger , the more exciting the hunt . 
The chief muttered a few words to his followers , in their own tongue , which Charles did not understand , but he judged from their looks that they were amazed at his rashness . 
Red Hand then turning to Charles , cast on him a scowling look , that expressed the hatred he felt towards him ; and said , `` the pale faces have white hearts , they are cowards ; they are afraid of the Black Feet , -- is it not so ? '' 
`` The pale faces , '' said Charles , `` are a great people ; their warriors are many and strong ; but they are friends to the red men , and would be at peace with them ; but they can punish their enemies if they do them an injury ; they know no fear , their hearts are strong and brave . '' 
This terminated the visit , and Charles left them to give free utterance to their restrained feelings of hatred , and form their plans of vengeance ; although there was no cause , except what they had formed in their own minds ; yet , still they hated him with all their wills . 
Charles thought he perceived in their manner , something that indicated both contempt for their entertainers , and satisfied assurance in themselves . 
He believed , though he could not tell why , they had plotted some scheme which they relied upon with great certainty ; and he resolved not only to keep a close watch upon them himself , but also to mention his suspicion to Le thoughts , he turned his steps to the little arbor , which he approached by the well-known path , which had now become perfectly familiar to him . 
So absorbed in his feelings was he , that he did not observe a stealthy figure that dogged his steps , and kept close upon his path . 
-- When he arrived at the bower , he found Coquese there already . 
She greeted him with a fond welcome , and invited him to take a seat by her . 
He accepted , of course , her invitation , and inquired after her father 's family . 
He expressed to her great pleasure from his last evening 's visit to her father 's family . 
Coquese was delighted to think that he was so favorably impressed from his visit to her parents . 
She knew the prejudices of the whites towards the Indian ; and although she felt persuaded that her dear Charles must love her kind mother , when he should become acquainted with her ; yet she could not help feeling some anxiety upon a subject so intimately connected with her happiness . 
After conversing a short time upon this subject , she spoke to Charles of Red Hand , and what he had told her the day before concerning him , and it appeared to give her much uneasiness ; she dreaded his power of working harm , and felt now more than ever terrified at the disposition which she knew he possessed , of avenging anything which appeared an obstacle to his wishes . 
Charles took her hand tenderly , and was endeavoring to quiet her fears , with his promises of protection and watchfulness of her happiness ; when suddenly and noiselessly , Red Hand approached the bower , and stood at the entrance . 
For a moment , so engaged with each other were they , that they did not perceive him . 
He looked upon them with a scowling , fiendish expression , as he contemplated their loving looks , and familiar conduct towards each other ; and his shrewd mind at once discovered the truth of their feelings , and their relations to each other . 
His worst fears , and suspicions were proved true . 
Coquese , whom he sought from a brutal , low passion , and whom he was determined to make his squaw , loved the accursed pale face . 
He felt that it was so , and all the black , devilish passions of his soul kindled at the thought . 
He shut his teeth hard together , and regarded them for a moment with equal hate , and had half the purpose within him , to kill them both on the spot ; but it was only for a second only , -- Charles must die by his hand , and Coquese should yet be his squaw . 
This was the second thought , and he fixed upon it greedily . 
All this passed through his mind , in much less time than we can write it . 
-- Just as he had arrived at this determination , Coquese caught a glimpse of his shadow on the ground , and instantly looking up at the entrance , beheld him standing there , with that fiendish expression still on his face , intently regarding them . 
Charles at once turned his eyes in the direction she had looked . 
Doing so , he saw the cause of her alarm was the huge Indian , who remained fixed where he stood . 
Charles met his savage scowl with a calm , determined look , and , in a stern tone , asked him what his business was , that made him , in such an insolent manner , intrude upon their company . 
Red Hand 's brow was flushed with anger and hate at these words , and with a voice full of passion and bitterness , he said , `` Does the pale face think that Red Hand will allow himself to be questioned by such as him ? 
Charles was now in turn angry at the tone in which Red Hand spoke of Coquese , as his , and the insolent bearing he manifested . 
But quickly replying , that this was no place or time to dispute with such a coarse brute as he was , told him `` begone ! '' 
Coquese , who had listened to what was passing between them , with an anxious heart , here begged Charles , in English , not to say anything to anger him ; but to recall what he had just said , and suffer him to enter , when they might endeavor to pacify him and make him friendly to them . 
This , however , it was too late to do , could it have been possible to have achieved such a purpose at the nothing but vengeance on the object that had angered him would satisfy his passionate temper . 
Without any farther words , he advanced a step into the bower . 
Charles started with a hasty impulse to throw him out quicker than he came in ; but Coquese laid her hand upon his arm and entreated him to be quiet . 
This checked him , and , in obedience to her wish , he controlled his anger . 
Red Hand felt abashed and confused before the innocent and beautiful girl , who thus , in a kind manner , addressed him . 
After his rude conduct , he would have liked it far better if she had spoken harshly and angerly to him . 
He would then have had a chance to display his insolence and impertinence ; but this unlooked-for kindness and words of respect completely confused him . 
He replied , however , rallying his self confidence , that he came to seek the Valley Flower for his squaw ; that he loved her and would make her the mistress of his lodge . 
He recounted his gallant deeds and feats in war and the chase , which had given him so high a rank in his tribe . 
Charles , who had been sitting by her side during the dialogue between them , and who , in spite of himself , was a good deal amused by the course which the chief pursued in his proposals to Coquese , and was also filled with admiration at the manner in which Coquese had received them , and replied to him , now , that he was gone , congratulated her at the ready means she used to get rid of him , and silence him forever . 
Charles asked with an inquiring tone , if she regretted that he had gone . 
She spoke in a melting tone of tenderness , and her large black eyes were turned lovingly upon him . 
He could restrain his feelings no longer . 
Her looks , her love for him , fired his heart , and , seizing her little hand , he breathed forth into her ear , in gushing , burning words , and earnest tones , his love . 
Her downcast eyes hid her looks from him ; but the suppressed breathing and pressure of the little hand he held in his own , confirmed his hopes . 
In a few moments she raised her face , beaming with happy blushes , and , in reply to his ardent and repeated wishes , would ever love him , with her own lips , she said , `` Forever . '' 
He clasped her in a warm , close embrace , to his heart , and their lips clung together in a warm , sweet , long , thrilling kiss ; a kiss of love , that carried with it their heart 's best love . 
that we might always be thus ; I could bid adieu to all the world , without a sigh , were my loving Charles to be always by my side . 
`` Dearest love , '' said Charles , `` your words are rapture to me , and you do love me so very much ; I am jealous of your love , I would take it all ; 't is so sweet to feel you love me . 
Does my sweet one doubt , can she doubt , that her own Charles will ever , can ever cease to love her ? 
Not until my heart forgets to beat , can I , will I cease to love you , sweetest , with all the fond , burning affection of my true heart , '' and he raised the soft , beautiful hand he held , to his lips , and impressed a warm , ardent kiss upon it . 
She raised her blushing , happy face to his , -- so full of love , so full of he gazed with fondest admiration upon her . 
`` Say not so , sweetest , '' said Charles , `` we were made for each other ; believe me , I feel that it is so . 
`` But only to think , '' said Coquese , `` how short a time , how few days have passed since I found my Charles slumbering in my little arbor , like a bird in his nest ; and yet it seems a life to me . 
I found you so unexpectedly , so strangely , and then you looked so beautiful , so noble , -- I loved you before you opened those lustrous , brilliant eyes , '' and again blushing , she leaned her face on his breast . 
`` Dearest , darling girl , '' said Charles , `` I shall never forget the moment , when first , on awaking , I beheld your dear self standing by my side . 
Charles had wound his arm around her waist , her hand was folded in his , while she leaned her head upon his shoulder , and fondly looked up into his face . 
`` We must go home , my Charles , '' said Coquese , `` it is late , and my parents will miss me . '' 
Suddenly Charles felt the arm that rested in his , tremble , -- a shudder passed over the form of Coquese . 
Charles , at once , in a tender voice , exclaimed , `` what troubles my Coquese ? 
-- Charles pressed the fair girl to his heart , and their lips met again ; it was the parting kiss , -- without a word they separated . 
'T is true , they were interrupted at times , by the danger which threatened their love , from the passion and disappointment of Red Hand ; but she would not , could not believe that any wrong , or adversity could overtake her own , dear Charles ; and she banished these fears as unfounded , to dwell upon the sweet prospects open to them , and recall the blissful feelings she had experienced in his company . 
And Charles -- did no visions of joy and happiness visit his pillow with dreamy delight and pleasure ? 
or did the images of danger and trouble , which Red Hand had evoked upon his head , fly in sad and terrifying array before him ? 
-- He remained late awake after retiring to his couch . 
His mind was too busy , too full ; his heart too joyous , and crowded with blissful emotions , to suffer him for a long time to sleep . 
He reviewed his day of love and delight with contented , nay , with sweetest feelings . 
The image of Coquese was before him , in all her simple grace and surpassing loveliness . 
He lived those charming hours over again , and when his thoughts would send their gaze far into the future , it was to meet a captivating , enticing future of deep and mutual love , and increasing happiness , that should exist and crown his lovely wife and his fortunate self . 
With such thoughts , he at last fell asleep , and the shadowy spirits and sprightly fairies that hover o'er the dreamer 's pillow , came flocking round him , bearing with them their rarest gifts . 
As soon as Charles recollected himself , and was aware of the engagement he had entered into for to-day , he at once sprung from his bed , told Le Beaux to get everything in readiness , and he dressing himself , he sallied out of the lodge . 
Charles took a hasty meal , and then went to bid Coquese good morning , and say a few words to her before leaving . 
He found M. Boileau ready to leave , and , therefore , had time only to interchange a word or two with his love . 
Charles took his rifle from Le Beaux 's hands , and , calling his hounds , he set off with the party for the hills , where they expected to find the game . 
Our hero and Le Beaux , Wahalla and Shoonshoone , formed one party ; and Charles noticed that Red Hand so arranged it , that his braves were by themselves , in two parties , and both took paths very near each other , and leading them rather round the foot of the hill , than deeper into the forest , or further from the village . 
But this did not excite his suspicions . 
He thought it natural they should prefer hunting together , and , perhaps , they knew that the bears had left the hills and come down to the level lands , at their base . 
At any rate , he soon forgot this circumstance , and with eagerness and impatience began to search the thickets for the expected victims . 
Wa halla and Shoonshoone each proposed by themselves to strike off a little distance from each other , and from Charles and Le Beaux , who were to keep together , and so search through a wider space until they reached the summit , where they were to meet again . 
-- Charles was relieved from his torturing suspense the instant Le Beaux fired , and without waiting to see the result , had rushed to Shoonshoone . 
Charles was very unwilling to accede to this proposition . 
He thought it exceedingly rash , on the part of Shoonshoone , and improper in them , to allow him to go back to the village alone , after such a severe struggle , and after he had been so much weakened by his wounds , and loss of blood , and so much exhausted by his violent efforts . 
It was several miles to the village , and they had come on foot ; to go back , Charles thought was altogether too much for Shoonshoone , in his present state , if not impossible . 
But he refused any assistance , and would remained and pursued the chase . 
He affected to treat lightly his wounds , and said he should not be backward in engaging again in a struggle of a like kind , if there was an occasion . 
Charles saw that it was useless to urge him farther , and so gave it up , though reluctantly , at last . 
Shoonshoone slowly wended his way back to the village . 
Often was he obliged to stop and rest , from exhaustion , and debility ; and it was not until a late hour in the afternoon , that he reached his lodge . 
When his story was told , all those who remained at home , came to him , and praised his daring , and congratulated him on his success . 
It was the most important deed he had ever accomplished , and won for him a name , among his people . 
His wants were all carefully , and kindly attended to ; and his wounds were now dressed with more care and skill , by an old warrior , who was famous for his knowledge of diseases , and the manner of treating wounds . 
Charles and his two companions continued their hunt for bear . 
Wahalla dressed the bear that Shoonshoone had killed , and hung the meat up by a tree which he marked , to be taken home on the morrow ; then striking off into the woods a short distance , commenced his search anew . 
He had not been long engaged in this manner , before he came upon a young bear , that had concealed itself in a little thicket that grew by a stream , which came leaping down the hill-side . 
The bear was on the watch , and started off before he had advanced near enough to be sure of him . 
He took the direction which would lead him directly across the path pursued by Charles and Le Beaux . 
Wahalla followed him , and fired at him ; the ball entered the lower part of the body , but did not inflict a bad wound . 
It made him utter a wild , shrill scream , that warned Charles and Le Beaux of his approach , and at the same time they heard the voice of Wahalla shouting to them . 
Both immediately cocked their rifles , prepared to give him battle , as soon as he should be discovered . 
They had not long to wait ; in a few moments they saw him coming , as fast as his sluggish gate could carry him , directly towards them . 
When he was about a hundred yards from them , Charles was anxious to fire upon him , but Le Beaux coolly said to him : `` Wait till he gets within thirty yards , then take good aim , and let him have it . 
Charles acted as Le Beaux suggested , and fired at the distance mentioned ; the ball struck him higher than he intended to hit him , but it gave him a bad wound , however , and brought him to his knees . 
While they sat down to rest themselves , Charles gratified his curiosity in observing the manner Wahalla used the hunting-knife , -- the skill and rapidity with which he executed this part of the sportsman 's duty , -- they heard far off on the neighboring hills the shouts and cries of the other parties , as they drove before them the routed game ; and occassionally the sharp crack of a rifle would awaken the echoes that lay hidden in the depths of those solitary forests . 
But for a long time , they met with nothing but small game , after they had killed the bear which Wahalla had started , and were almost on the point of giving up the hope when Charles proposed that they should separate for a short time , a little distance from each other saying that in this way they could extend their search over a wider range , without additional labor . 
-- His hounds , at an early part of the day , had bounced a buck , and followed after him , and had not yet come in ; so Charles started off alone , agreeing to meet his companions , in a short time , at a spot ahead agreed upon , and which they were to approach in different directions . 
They had not pursued this separate search long , when Charles arrived in his path at a narrow pass on the hill , through which he must advance , if he would continue on in this direction . 
Suddenly he perceived in a little thicket , on one side of his path , two small , glistening orbs , that glowed like balls of living fire . 
He was too much of a sportsman not to know at once , that this appearance proceeded from nothing but the watchful and savage eyes of a wild beast . 
-- Charles exercised , at this terrible moment of awful peril , the most perfect presence of mind . 
He took as good aim as the sudden attack would permit , and fired . 
The ball passed through the bear 's cheek , breaking a part of his jaw , on the right side ; but apparently , the wound had no other effect than to render him still more furious , and raving . 
what would he have given now for his brave and trusty hounds ; but they were not with him . 
He had permitted them to leave him , and with their deep notes , so cheerful to the hunter 's ear , he had listened to them , and hallooed them on , as they followed the flying feet of the startled buck . 
-- The next instant , Charles felt the strong legs of the shaggy beast folded about him , and pressing him in a closer and closer hug . 
He dropped his rifle from his hand , and struggled to draw his knife upon him . 
In the struggle the bear threw him down , and was standing over him , or rather pressing down upon him . 
One of his strong , brawny paws clenched his left arm ; each hard , protruding talon pierced through his thick , stout , buckskin shirt , and tore his flesh . 
The other paw rested heavily upon his chest . 
He felt as if every moment its sharp claws would tear his very heart from his side . 
His senses became confused , -- his sight grew dizzy ; still like a brave hunter , he fainted not , nor ceased to struggle with all his might for the victory . 
His right arm , which he had contrived to extricate from the monster 's grasp , was busy for his relief . 
He held his knife in that hand , and continually dealt vigorous and severe blows at the throat of the bear ; in this way , he prevented him from bringing into play his bloody jaws , which he was endeavoring to fix upon his face and neck . 
The hot breath of the bear was poured upon his face , and the hot blood flowed in streams from the wounds he had dealt him , down his face and upon his chest , almost suffocating him . 
The burning eye-balls of the furious bear were glaring nearer and nearer his cheek ; hotter and hotter glowed his breath upon his face ; but still , so long as Charles wielded the bloody knife he held in his hand , the cowardly beast held back , as if conscious of the superior bravery , though inferior strength of the man whom he pressed beneath him . 
Charles ' power at last relaxed ; nature had done her utmost in his behalf , she was at last exhausted . 
He had exerted every limb , every muscle to the utmost ; every nerve was stretched , but it was all in vain . 
The gloom of despair was on the point of overwhelming him , his very soul , and death was about to claim and seize his victim , when the clear deep bay of his faithful blood-hounds broke upon his ear , and revived his sinking heart , and brought back consciousness . 
Never was there to him so joyous a sound before . 
The next moment the branches crashed and yielded beneath a heavy , hasty bound ; and his two blood-hounds , with an overpowering leap , bounded together upon the merciless and well nigh victorious foe . 
The shock hurled the weakened , but still obstinate bear , from off our hero 's prostrate form ; and Charles leaping to his feet , felt that he was saved from a most cruel death , saved at the last moment . 
Had his brave dogs delayed their coming a moment longer , they might have , would avenged their kind and loved master 's death ; but they , too , would have howled their wailing grief , and bemoaned in sorrow more true , and deep , than many a human , rational being , above his lifeless and mangled form . 
The reader will easily conjecture the explanation of this sudden appearance , and truly providential , nay , almost maraculous rescue of Charles , from the very jaws of death , by the blood-hounds . 
They had run down the buck they started in the morning , and killed him ; they returned to seek their master . 
He had become more and more attached to Charles , from the first , and felt for him as strong , as deep love , as if he had been his own son . 
-- He thought it was all over with him ; he was not prepared for such calm coolness , and determinate resolution , on the part of Charles . 
He , however , set himself to work at once , with great earnestness , and presence of mind , to render him all possible assistance . 
He hastened to him chance , but so manfully did Charles struggle , and so constantly was he in motion , that he did not dare to fire , for fear of hitting him at the same time he might wound the bear . 
Great , as may be conceived , was his joy when the bay of the hounds told him that a safer , surer succor was at hand ; and fervently did he pray in his heart , that Charles ' strength might hold out a little longer , until it reached him . 
His joy was unbounded as he came up a little after the arrival of the hounds , and found Charles safe . 
He washed the blood from his face , examined his arm , and bound it carefully up . 
Charles had suffered but little , otherwise than from being considerably bruised . 
The only wounds he received were on his left arm , and these were not deep or dangerous . 
The reason he had not suffered more from the claws of the bear was this : Le Beaux had advised him in the morning to put on a thick , stout deer-skin hunting shirt . 
To Charles , however , they were full of praises of his courage and skill ; and the story of the hounds , which Wahalla told in a manner highly favorable to those four-footed sportsmen , seemed to excite little less wonder than the sight had done on him . 
It was late in the evening when the last band of the Delawares came in , and yet nothing was seen or heard of Red Hand or his people . 
Charles revolved in his mind all the facts and circumstances which had come under his observation , while among them , relating to Red Hand . 
And , now , the observations which he had made in the morning , and the scene of their camp , on the day before , so different from the appearance of the Indian camp on the eve of a hunt , where two rival tribes are to try their skill and daring , all came with startling distinctness and vividness before his mind , and connected themselves at once with the scene at the little prominent a part , and where Red Hand had so suddenly declared his passion for her , and , mortified and enraged at her refusal and frank avowal , that she was already another 's , had displayed his as sudden hate , and muttered the threats against him , which he had disregarded and quite forgotten , but which had caused Coquese so much uneasiness and alarm for his safety . 
And he at once concluded that Red Hand 's absence at this time was another step in his hostile plans towards Coquese and himself . 
He feared the worst from him . 
He believed he had seized this occasion of the absence of the warriors of the tribe , who could protect the village , to accomplish his purposes towards her by force . 
He knew that his hated enemy would have no scruples as to the measures he would use , and , as he reflected upon this , a shudder jarred over his frame . 
He trembled at what his fears brought up before him . 
His cheek grew pale , and a feeling of blight and sickened hopes of despair came over him . 
He quickly rallied himself , and bent his thoughts at once upon the framing of measures , which should defeat his enemy , if his suspicions should prove true . 
His first thought was to communicate his views to Le Beaux and M. Boileau , privately , and consult with them on the course best to pursue . 
At the relation of this a cloud of anxiety and trouble darkened the countenances of both his companions , and they instantaneously adopted the view which Charles had taken of the case . 
-- Charles could not forbear , at this time , from confiding to M. Boileau and his friend , the guide , the story of his love for Coquese , and the return she gave him , and soliciting , in any plans they might adopt , or in any emergency that might arise , that his aid and personal exertion might be given a first place . 
Le Beaux 's face was illumined with a gleam of satisfaction at Charles ' avowal of his love and his determination to sacrifice everything for her . 
He grasped his hand and pressed it warmly , declaring he would stand by him in every trouble . 
He kindly said to Charles that on some future occasion they would speak fully on what he said , but now they must turn their immediate attention to the danger they feared . 
-- Then , going to his band , he briefly related what Charles had said , suppressing what concerned our hero and Coquese personally , but giving them a full account of Red Hand 's demand upon his daughter for her hand . 
They listened in silence , but the kindling of their dark eyes , the compressed expression of their faces , and knitting of their stern brows , as he spoke his fears that their guests had taken advantage of their absence to accomplish their purposes , showed their readiness and determination to avenge any wrongs that had been inflicted . 
Charles forgot his wounds , in the deep anxiety he felt for Coquese 's safety , and her uncertain fate , and kept in the front rank . 
Charles , with him hastened to the lodge of M. Boileau , and with trembling , eager haste , greeted Leila , his wife , who stood at the door , and smiled upon him as he approached , not noticing the anxiety and impatience which his face wore . 
She scanned him with the watchful eye of affection , and saw at a glance , that he was safe and unhurt ; but as she turned to Charles to observe him , with the same purpose , she noticed what had at first escaped her attention , -- that his arm rested in a sling , and his clothes were torn and bloody . 
She started , and turned pale , and in a breath asked him if he was hurt badly ; for she had already formed a strong attachment for him , and had observed the feelings Coquese could not hide from her mother 's eye , which she had for him . 
Charles answered her quickly , that he was not hurt , -- he had received a few scratches , which did his clothes more damage than his flesh ; it was a trifle , not worth a thought ; `` but , '' said he , almost in the same breath , `` I do not see Coquese here , -- is she at home ? '' 
He spoke in a trembling , tender tone , as he asked this question , and his face , always so ready to mirror the feelings that stirred his heart , showed the deep interest he felt in the expected answer ; for so strong was the feeling , the presentiment of some evil about to fall upon him , and that through his loved and betrothed Coquese , that all he saw in the village , the contented and happy face of his darling 's mother , -- all that would , under ordinary circumstances , have dispelled his fears , and quieted his anxious heart , could not now banish the fearful , dreaded forebodings that harrowed his whole soul , and filled him with agitation , and painful suspicion . 
He would not , could not be satisfied of her safety , till he again saw her dear face , and folded her to his loving heart . 
Leila could but be struck by his earnest , anxious manner , and the deep sadness of his expression , but not knowing , or being able to conjecture the reason for them , she was perplexed and puzzled how to answer him ; and a minute or two of torturing suspense to our hero , was suffered to pass , before she recovered from the surprise and confusion his manner had thrown her into . 
Charles waited to hear no more , but without a word , or even a look of parting , darted away in the direction of the little bower . 
He ran at the top of his speed , till he was hidden by the forest trees from their sight . 
We must now leave him for awhile , to pursue his search at the bower for Coquese , and turn to the Delawares , who remained standing in a body , awaiting the result of M. Boileau 's interview with his wife . 
They had observed with the closest attention , what had transpired at the door of M. Boileau 's lodge , and their fears were awakened anew as they saw Charles set off alone at such headlong speed , and bend his way to the forest . 
Wahalla , who had become very strongly bound to Charles , could not , or did not resist the feeling which moved him to follow his footsteps . 
He had seen the daring , and almost reckless bravery which he displayed in his encounter with the bear , in the morning , and he believed that should any danger offer him now in his search for Coquese , as he hastily concluded his errand to be , he would rush on heedless of all odds . 
He therefore resolved to follow him , and if danger was in his path , to stand by him to the death . 
Such was his noble , generous nature ; and had he known that he followed to certain destruction , he would not have faltered or hesitated for a moment . 
He had guessed at the relation which Charles bore to Coquese , and with a refined and touching delicacy , he avoided coming up with him , or annoying him with his presence , should he meet with Coquese . 
He kept sufficiently near him to be ready to assist him at the first sign of danger ; but at the same time , far enough behind to conceal himself from his view . 
In this way he followed him to the bower . 
Leila had looked with silent surprise and wonder after Charles , as he so abruptly and strangely left her , and ran as if he were mad , -- like a hound to the woods . 
She gazed after him as long as he was in sight , and then turning to her husband with a bewildered , inquiring look , she sought to read an explanation of his conduct in his face . 
He appeared little less surprised than herself at the moment , but his wife 's appealing look recalled him to the circumstances around him , and interpreting at once her look , he hastily , but distinctly , narrated to her the fears and suspicions which Charles had first suggested on noticing that Red Hand and his party had not returned ; and then detailed the facts Charles had recounted to him and Le Beaux concerning Red Hand 's passion and declaration to Coquese , and finished by telling her of Charles attachment and secret engagement to their daughter . 
But so tender and loving was her heart , so watchful of the welfare of her family , that although she had thought , and had reason to believe , that Coquese had simply gone out to take her accustomed walk , and would soon return again , yet on the first mention of the fears which her husband and Charles entertained for her , her mind was filled with images of suffering and misery , which her dear Coquese might at that moment be enduring . 
The fear of his wife had in a moment changed all , and he saw at once that Charles was right ; that there was no reason yet to dismiss fear . 
Red Hand would in his cunning have done this secretly , if he did it at all , that he might get a sufficient start to baffle his pursuers . 
He saw it all in an instant . 
-- Both kept silent , awaiting with breathless interest the return of Charles . 
They strained their eyes in the direction where they supposed he would appear , as if they by so doing could pierce through the thick overshadowing foliage , that formed an impenetrable hiding place the eye could not reach . 
Leila uttered a wild , heart-rending scream as she saw him emerge from the woods alone . 
In fright he approached . 
They saw he held in his hand a piece of the silk scarf she had worn when she left the lodge , which had been a gift from himself but a few days before . 
It was torn , as if by violent hands , near the centre , and he had found it on the ground , at the entrance of her little arbor . 
There were other marks he said , around the spot , which too clearly , too surely , showed that his dear Coquese had been torn from her home by the cruel , bloody Red Hand . 
He spoke in a voice choked with feeling and wretchedness , and his agony of feeling , which was so startlingly portrayed in his face , and which would burst forth in his heart-rending words and deep sighs , so deeply moved the pity of Leila that , for a moment , she forgot herself in the endeavor to comfort him . 
So utterly crushed and blighted were his cherished fairest hopes , that no tongue can speak dear girl . 
Such were the thoughts that burnt in Charles ' soul , and in broken and agonized sentences found vent in his words , that seemed to tear and rend his heart with their utterance . 
But his violent grief was not long permitted to hold sway over him in this terrible manner . 
-- And now , she and those about her could not look upon Charles , and see the grief that crushed and weighed him down , or that tortured him to agony , without feeling that his great sorrow was more than all their own , however much they suffered , and deserved their sympathy . 
Charles did not at first appear to understand him , but Le Beaux repeated it again . 
As he did so , Charles looked him full in the face , and catching his meaning , his eye kindled into a blaze , his face changed to one complete , absorbing expression of determined resolution and earnestness , and springing to his fect , he exclaimed in a resolute tone , `` You are right , Le Beaux . 
And his face glowing , his arm raised on high , he bound himself by an oath to follow him so long as they lived , or until he should rescue his betrothed , or if dead slay her destroyer . 
Charles , with a flashing brow and a bold voice narrated to them all the facts he had gathered in his search , relating to the carrying off of Coquese , and in earnest and moving entreaties begged them the track of Red Hand . 
They all readily signified their assent to his proposition . 
-- Two chosen scouts , whose eyes were quick to follow and to find any sign or token of a trail , however slight , which might be made , were dispatched under Wahalla , to search for the trail of Red Hand and his party ; while the remainder of them hastily entered their lodges and prepared their arms , and all that was necessary for them in setting out upon the war path of an enemy whom they were resolutely determined to overtake and destroy , and whom they might be obliged to follow for many successive days and nights . 
He now thought of the hounds of Charles , and the wonderful instinct with which they scent the track of their foe . 
As this thought flashed upon his mind , he uttered a cry of joy , which surprised both M. Boileau and Charles , who were listening attentively to his plans . 
`` I have it , '' said he , striking his head , `` we can not now by any possibility fail of reaching them , or lose their trail . 
How fortunate , Charles , you are . '' 
Charles in utter astonishment asked him to explain what he meant , for he could not readily understand how he was to contribute towards finding and following the trail , in any special manner . 
`` But you are , though , '' said Le Beaux , `` and in such a manner , too , that Red Hand , were he fifty times as cunning as I believe him to be , -LRB- and a more cunning red skin , I believe breathes not , or a more villainous rascal , too -RRB- , but I reckon it will take more keenness than even he can boast to cheat those keen blood-hounds that follow you , Charles . '' 
In the grief and anxiety he felt for Coquese , and in the eager haste with which he had rushed upon and formed plans for setting off at once , Charles had forgotten his hounds ; but now , when Le Beaux mentioned them as the means of tracing the footsteps of Red Hand , Charles fairly clapped his hands for joy . 
In a low , earnest voice , Charles added , `` Rest assured I will never return again without her . '' 
Leila looked with a mother 's fondness upon his noble form and handsome face . 
She felt a pang of sorrow for him , and , drawing him to her , she impressed a kiss upon his brow , and bade him adieu . 
-- Charles and Le Beaux followed close upon him , accompanied by the hounds . 
As we stated before , the course pursued by Red Hand and his followers , when they left the village with Coquese , was concealed as much as possible by him . 
He had taken great pains to cover all traces of his direction , and , if possible , to confuse and mislead the Delawares in the pursuit which he knew would be made , on discovering that he had fled and had taken Coquese with him . 
In order , therefore , to accomplish his purpose , he had selected from his little band a few upon whose skill and courage he could implicitly rely , and ordered them to follow a different and nearly opposite direction from that which he took with his prisoner and the rest of his party , and while he with his men used the utmost caution to hide all signs from the keen eyes of the Delaware warriors , who would soon be upon him . 
`` But , '' said he , `` use no further violence to her . 
He determined to wait for some of the children of the village , whom he hoped to meet in the woods , and tell them a feigned story about our hero , and that he was awaiting her at the bower , and send them with his instruction , which he pretended Charles gave them , to Coquese . 
He had taken the precaution to disguise himself so well , that it would be impossible for a simple child to have known him , even if a wise warrior could have penetrated his disguise , which was no easy matter , for he was a master in this art . 
She thanked the boy warmly for his kindness , and told him she should remember him , and would give him a pretty pair of moccasins as she came back ; and without stopping longer , or going back to her father 's lodge , she took her way to meet Charles , full of sweet thoughts of love and visions of happiness dancing before her mind 's eye . 
Gaily and swiftly she tripped as on light foot over the soft grassy turf , and in a few minutes entered her little rustic arbor , where she expected to find Charles awaiting her . 
But she had no time to feel surprise or disappointment at seeing it untenanted , for the watchful , cunning eyes of Red Hand had followed her , and as she entered he gave the signal to his fellows that he had agreed upon . 
They were waiting with eager attention for it , and no sooner was it sounded than they leaped from their covert like a tiger on his prey . 
The future that had seemed so enchanting , that she had painted to herself in such lively , bright colors , the delight and pleasure she had looked forward to in passing her life with Charles , and watching over his happiness , and receiving his love , which she knew was so true , so deep , so complete for her , all , all , gone in a moment , and a fate , than which she could conceive of none more bitter or terrible , was open before her . 
He persuaded Charles to stretch his limbs out upon the green grass , under a spreading tree , and laying down by his side , they both soon fell asleep . 
Charles , to whom he gave the paper , was overjoyed at this proof , that no violence had been done her , and hope had gained new life in his anxious breast from this little , and apparently trifling incident . 
He kissed it when by himself and away from the eyes of his companions , again and again , and folding it up , he placed it upon his devoted heart , exclaiming as he did so , in a resolute , but tender voice , `` Ah ! 
A friendly , deep voice near him at the same instant , responded , `` and so will I , too . '' 
It was late in the afternoon , and still our friends were proceeding onward , the marks of their enemy growing more and more fresh , and apprising them that they were not far distant , when they saw Wahalla and his little party approaching them . 
-- In a minute they had halted , and the chiefs gathering about him in silence , their wrongs , too . 
As soon as they reached the opposite bank , Wahalla directed his followers to remain where they were , while he , unperceived by his foes , should proceed alone up the bank until he came opposite to the place where Red Hand was making his preparations to camp . 
Seeing these preparations , and being convinced that such was , indeed , his purpose , he hastily rode back to his watchful band , and told them what he had seen . 
He then ordered them to dismount and tie their horses in the thicket , and take their arms and follow him . 
This they at once proceeded to do , and came up to the spot opposite to where Red Hand pitched his camp . 
Charles and Le Beaux , who with some eight warriors , had stolen to the thicket close upon them to execute the plan of removing Coquese , could distinctly hear his words of entreaty , and see his gestures of impatience and anger , as she persisted in her refusal . 
Charles shook from head to foot with anger , as he saw Red Hand 's cruel conduct towards her . 
His blood boiled with his swelling passion . 
He clenched his teeth close together , and in a hoarse whisper said , `` the base , cowardly dog is going to strike her . 
This operated like a gag upon Charles ; he remained perfectly silent . 
The only movement he made , was to turn round and make a sign to his hounds , that were crouching in silence behind him , to lie close down . 
The sagacious animals understood him , and immediately dropped close to the ground , at his heels . 
But Red Hand did not strike his captive , as he raised his hand , and cast his scowling looks upon her . 
She raised her face to him , and her eyes flashed a fire as bright as that which gleamed in his own , and with a clear , steady voice , and unflinching look , that quailed not before that terrible frown , -- that made his bravest warriors tremble , -- but , on the contrary , sought his eye , she exclaimed , `` it is fit and worthy of Red Hand , to strike a defenceless woman . 
This taunt , and slur upon his courage , was so she mentioned , that he did not know what to say , or know how to answer her . 
Red Hand , instead of answering her , seized her by the arm , and led her to one of the little bowers which the running vines had formed , where they mingled with the branches of the stately trees , and to which they clung for support . 
`` Let Coquese remain here , '' said he , and stooping down to her , he muttered in a whisper , `` let her beware how she gives Red Hand bitter words . 
Coquese turned away her head from him ; her courage almost forsook her , at that look . 
He then joined his companions , and left her to herself . 
As soon as Red Hand had joined his companions , Charles and Le Beaux , with the faithful warriors that were with them , stole noiselessly and quickly to the spot where Coquese sat . 
So deep , so intense was her grief , so profound and complete the absorption of all her faculties in their great woe , that Charles had reached her side and threw his arms about her before she recovered herself . 
Red Hand turned his head at the sound . 
Amazement was in his face , and he was too much surprised to move . 
Red Hand sprung over his dead body and strode onward to the spot where Charles stood supporting Coquese . 
Vengeance was in his heart , and he would die contented could he but slay the pale face chief before the eyes of his mistress . 
And this opposed his progress towards our hero , and Charles did not at first see him . 
He was endeavoring to soothe and calm Coquese , and his face was turned in the direction from which Red Hand approached them . 
So fiendish was the look he wore , she dared not look upon him , but turned her head away . 
Her scream caused Charles to look up . 
It was just in time for him to draw his heavy cutlass and stand in attitude of defence . 
Red Hand , with a scorn and a bound like a tiger , sprung upon him . 
Charles , whose hate equalled his own , and whose courage could not be surpassed , was prepared to receive him . 
With a strong cut he beat aside the blow aimed at him , and ere Red Hand could recover , he dealt him a back blow , which inflicted a severe wound upon his right arm , and rendered it useless . 
His tomahawk dropped from his hand , and uttering a cry of blended pain , and rage , and disappointment , he sought to grapple with Charles in a close hug . 
But just at that moment a new ally , that he had forgotten , came to our hero 's assistance . 
His hounds , seeing their master 's danger , and hearing the cry of Red Hand , bounded upon him with a leap more sudden than his own . 
Their strong teeth were buried in his throat , and he fell beneath their united weight . 
Quick as lightning they tore away his throat , severing the windpipe and the large arteries that lay on either side of the neck , and ere Charles could call them off , he was dead . 
He was killed by Charles ' hounds . 
Coquese , who had recovered and looked around , fearing the worst for her lover , when she saw him safe , and his bloody cutlass in his hand , uttered a cry of joy and threw herself into his arms . 
Charles pressed her fervently to his heart . 
His feelings were too strong for minutes . 
When at last he did speak , it was in a low , fervent exclamation of gratitude for her safety . 
She looked up into his face . 
Tears were streaming from her eyes . 
No , her heart was full ; but they were happy thoughts , and she could not help weeping for very joy , so sudden and unexpected had been her rescue from death , and what she deemed even more dreadful than death itself ; and this at the moment when her heart had yielded to despair and the darkest gloom . 
No wonder then that such great , such sudden joy , overcame her equally as her extreme of grief . 
Charles had placed himself between her and Red Hand 's dead body . 
He wished she might not see it , so horrible was the spectacle his mangled corse presented . 
But as he endeavored to lead her away from the spot , her eye accidentally fell upon the body . 
She shuddered at the sight , and turned deadly pale . 
Charles thought she was about to faint , but she as quickly recovered , and in a calm voice , said , `` It is terrible to witness the punishment of his crimes . 
`` He was a cunning and deceitful foe , '' said Charles . 
So saying , Charles led her some distance from the spot , and seated her by the side of a large tree , that grew close by the open plot , which we have described as lying on the river 's bank , which was free from trees , and covered only with a soft carpet of waving grass and wild flowers . 
Coquese , who had , as soon as she recovered from the surprise and fear which the startling and dreadful events of the few moments just past had caused her , and when she had in such a fond , affectionate way , -LRB- that delighted the heart of our hero , and called forth all the rich store of love that was treasured in his heart towards her -RRB- , loaded him with her thanks , and words that spoke her whole-souled love for him ; with a cloud of anxiety , which had for a moment been banished from her brow , as she clung to Charles , and thought only of his happy safety , but which now again shadowed her fair face , inquired in a tremulous tone , if her father had not come with him to rescue her , and if he was not now in the midst of the terrible , desperate fight which was maintained before their eyes , and but a short distance from them ? 
Charles replied that he had indeed come with them , and was there to punish his enemies , who had so much wronged him , and violated every right of hospitality , while they continued his guests . 
And he related to her how her father 's heart had been racked with grief , and anguish , when the fearful truth could no longer be hid from him , that his dear child had been carried off by the wily chief . 
`` Go , dearest Charles , '' said she , `` and seek him , I beseech you . 
I fear he may be wounded or killed in this battle ? '' 
Charles wound his arm around her waist , and moving closer to her side , in an imploring voice , said , `` Urge me not , dearest love , to leave your side again . 
No , no , '' said he , `` I can not leave you till you are once more safe at home . '' 
His feelings were growing more and more tender , and he was about to ask her why he should ever leave her more ; why she would not consent to be at once , his own sweet bride , when she stopped him by saying , `` But there is no longer any danger to me here , and my of my father 's fate . '' 
They both saw him at the same instant , and uttered each an exclamation of joyful surprise . 
Coquese sprang to her feet , and the next moment was folded in her father 's arms , to his glad heart . 
While Charles was protecting Coquese , and in doing this , had met and defeated their bold chief , in the way we have related , although the Black Feet were taken completely by surprise by their enemies , yet did they , by no means , fall an easy or unresisting prey to their fierce attack . 
The hiding-place of M. Boileau and his followers was some distance farther from the scene of conflict than that which sheltered Charles and Le Beaux , with their few braves , and two or three minutes elapsed after the latter uttered their war-cry , -- the signal for a general attack , -- ere they reached the spot where the struggle was maintained . 
Le Beaux had rushed among the foremost in the attack , believing that Charles was safe from danger , and that none of the Black Feet could pass them to reach him . 
But in this he was mistaken . 
He feared that Charles would prove unequal in a personal struggle with Red Hand , and he had , while engaged with his enemy , given a glance after him , and saw that he was engaged with him , and shouted to him to cheer him . 
It was on this account he had been so ready to use his knife , so anxious was he to assist Charles . 
But when he sprung to his feet he saw that our hero needed no help . 
Charles had gone with them , and Coquese also , -- all were present at these sad rites , that consigned some of her brave deliverers to their final home . 
-- When they returned , Coquese entered her rude and hastily constructed tent . 
Charles laid himself upon the grass at the door , with his trusty hounds by his side to guard his sleep . 
Charles had ridden by the side of Coquese , and her father had been prevailed upon to sanction their love . 
And now , again , Charles and Coquese lingered hour after hour , by themselves . 
Now although occasional sadness would sometimes cloud the fair , clear brow of the beautiful daughter of the forest , as she thought of the days of her captivity , and the cruel scenes connected with them ; and as in her daily walks around the peaceful village , her eyes would rest in pity , and her words of consolation , and promise , and hope , in soft , kind tones , would fall upon the ears of the widowed squaws , whose brave husbands had sealed with their life-blood their devotion to her , yet could the presence , the voice , the very thought of her adored , her idolized Charles , in all the pride of blooming manhood , with his thoughtful and intelligent face , so beautiful , dispel all gloom and sorrow from her heart , and all grief from her anxious , troubled brow ; and thoughts , sweet thoughts would fly to take possession of her soul , and the bright , sweet smile of happiness would light up the fires of her deep , dark eyes , imparting such beauty , and angelic loveliness to her charming person , that all paid homage at the shrine of such surpassing loveliness ; while the enraptured lover would sit and drink in with fond admiration each grace and sweet perfection of this dear being , whose love was enshrined in the chosen chambers of his faithful , loving heart . 
Charles had become the guest of M. Boileau , and was the acknowledged and beloved suitor of their precious child . 
The fair hands of his love smoothed and spread the clothes of his soft couch , and prepared for him the dainties of the humble board . 
It was the sweet notes of her rich , bird-like voice that awoke him each morning 's dawn , to the blessed pleasures of another day of life and love . 
It was from her rosy lips that he quaffed the delicious nectar that inspired his happy and delightful dreams . 
But a simple feast , abundant , but humble and modest , and the lovely charms and graces nature gave to the warmhearted , beautiful Coquese , as a bridal garment , that all the milliners and artists in the wide world could not equal , were ornaments enough for this fair girl , and at the appointed day she was ready to stand by the side of her dear , and truly loved Charles , and in the presence of the village , publicly unite herself to him . 
-- Charles , with a joyful face and beating heart , as he stood there and gazed upon the fair girl , about to become his , thought he never before beheld a female half so lovely and beautiful . 
When she ceased , Charles , in his turn , placed his hand in hers , and in the same manner , and with the same solemn invocation of the Great Spirit , to witness the act , promised before all the assembled tribe , to watch over , protect and love this dear maid that stood by his side , and whose hand he now held , so long as he should live . 
