It was Saturday morning , and I spent two miserable days , for she never spoke a word to me till the two ministers had made their appearance , and drank their tea on Sunday evening ; then at last she opened -- `` And now , Mr. Wigginton , what account have you of this Mr. Mackaye , who has seduced my unhappy boy from the paths of obedience ? '' 
`` I am sorry to say , madam , '' answered the dark man , with a solemn snuffle , `` that he proves to be a most objectionable and altogether unregenerate character . 
He is , as I am informed , neither more nor less than a Chartist and an open blasphemer . '' 
`` He is not ! '' 
`` He has told me more about God , and given me better advice , than any human being , except my mother . '' 
My dear boy , what books have you now got by you of Mr. Mackaye 's ? '' 
`` I think , madam , you might let the youth keep these books , if he will promise , as I am sure he will , to see no more of Mr. Mackaye . '' 
`` I must see him once again , or he will think me so ungrateful . 
He is the best friend that I ever had , except you , mother . 
Besides , I do not know if he will lend me any , after this . '' 
`` Promise me only to see him once -- but I can not trust you . 
`` But may I keep the books a little while , Mr. Mackaye ? '' 
`` Was it wrong in him to give himself such trouble about the education of a poor young fellow , who has no tie on him , who can never repay him ? '' 
he broke out at last . 
the cerebration of each in the prophetic sacrament of the yet undeveloped possibilities of his mentation ? 
`` But , '' I said , `` Mr. Mackaye , do you think it right to sell books of the very opinions of which you disapprove so much ? '' 
`` And when shall I be ready , Mr. Mackaye ? '' 
But the thought of my mother haunted me ; and Mackaye seemed in no hurry to let me escape from it , for he insisted on my writing to her in a penitent strain , informing her of my whereabouts , and offering to return home if she should wish it . 
He looked at me again and again , winking and chuckling to himself in a way which showed me that his good spirits had something to do with my concerns ; but he did not open on the subject till I had settled to my evening 's reading . 
Then , having brewed himself an unusually strong mug of whisky-toddy , and brought out with great ceremony a clean pipe , he commenced . 
He heard I was a precious clever fellow . 
No wonder , I came of a clever stock ; his poor dear brother had plenty of brains for everything but business . 
But it was some weeks before he gently enough told me his suspicions , and they were answered by a burst of tears , and a passionate denial , which set them at rest for ever . 
But I had not courage to tell him what was the matter with me . 
I had a half-dread , too , to confess the whole truth , of his ridiculing a fancy , to say the least , so utterly impracticable ; and my only confidant was a picture in the National Gallery , in one of the faces of which I had discovered some likeness to my Venus ; and there I used to go and stand at spare half hours , and feel the happier for staring and staring , and whispering to the dead canvas the extravagances of my idolatry . 
`` What do you mean , Mr. Mackaye ! '' 
`` To hell , Mr. Mackaye ? '' 
`` What jaws , Mr. Mackaye ! '' 
`` Well -- but -- Mr. Mackaye , I know nothing about these poor creatures . '' 
Is that Mr. Mackaye ? '' 
`` Oh , Mr. Mackaye -- dear , kind Mr. Mackaye -- do speak to her ; and do speak to poor Lizzy here ! 
Do tell them , Mr. Mackaye . '' 
-- it 's no merit o ' mine , Mr. Mackaye , that the Lord 's kept me pure through it all . 
I saw Him last night , Mr. Mackaye , as plain as I see you now , all in a flame of beautiful white fire , smiling at me so sweetly ; and He showed me the wounds in His hands and His feet , and He said , `` Ellen , my own child , those that suffer with me here , they shall be glorified with me hereafter , for I 'm coming very soon to take you home . '' 
Sandy shook his head at all this with a strange expression of face , as if he sympathised and yet disagreed , respected and yet smiled at the shape which her religious ideas had assumed ; and I remarked in the mean time that the poor girl 's neck and arm were all scarred and distroted , apparently from the effects of a burn . 
the doctor had come and given her such blessed ease with a great thick leather he had put under it , and then she did not feel the boards through so much . 
`` But oh , Mr. Mackaye , I 'm so afraid it will make me live longer to keep me away from my dear Saviour . 
And there 's one thing , too , that 's breaking my heart , and makes me long to die this very minute , even if I did n't go to Heaven at all , Mr. Mackaye . '' 
-LRB- And she burst out crying , and between her sobs it came out , as well as I could gather , that her notion was , that her illness was the cause of keeping the girls in `` the bad way , '' as she called it . -RRB- 
`` We have been telling Mr. Mackaye everything , '' said poor Lizzy . 
`` God bless you , '' said Ellen ; `` come again soon , dear Mr. Mackaye . '' 
That ither , prostituting hersel to buy food for her freen -- is there na poetry there ? 
I had taken Mackaye at his word . 
His wisdom was one of apophthegms and maxims , utterly impractical , too often merely negative , as was his creed , which , though he refused to be classed with any sect , was really a somewhat undefined Unitarianism -- or rather Islamism . 
He could say , with the old Moslem , `` God is great -- who hath resisted his will ? '' 
Mackaye sat in his usual place , smoking a clean pipe , and assisting his meditations by certain mysterious chironomic signs ; while opposite to him was Farmer Porter -- a stone or two thinnner than when I had seen him last , but one stone is not much missed out of seventeen . 
At last , as Downes 's life seemed in danger , he wavered ; the Jew-boy seized the moment , jumped up , upsetting the constable , dashed like an eel between Crossthwaite and Mackaye , gave me a back-handed blow in passing , which I felt for a week after , and vanished through the street-door , which he locked after him . 
Even his most potent excuse that `` a boy must live somehow , '' Crossthwaite treated as contemptuously as if he had been a very Leonidas , while Mackaye chimed in with -- `` An ' ye a papist ! 
And as for Mackaye , though brought up , as he told me , a rigid Scotch Presbyterian , he had gradually ceased to attend the church of his fathers . 
And , besides , he absolutely refused to enter any place of worship where there were pews . 
I was , therefore , altogether surprised at the promptitude with which he agreed to go and hear Crossthwaite 's new-found prophet . 
His reasons for so doing may be , I think , gathered from the conversation towards the end of this chapter . 
I had dreaded , that whole autumn , having to tell him the truth , because I knew that his first impulse would be to pay the money instantly out of his own pocket ; and my pride , as well as my sense of justice , revolted at that , and sealed my lips . 
But when he found that I was really utterly at a loss to whom to attribute the mercy , he assured me , by way of comfort , that he was just as ignorant as myself ; and at last , piecemeal , in his circumlocutory and cautious Scotch method , informed me , that some six weeks back he had received an anonymous letter , `` a ` thegither o ' a Belgravian cast o ' phizog , '' containing a bank-note for twenty pounds , and setting forth the writer 's suspicions that I owed my cousin money , and their desire that Mr. Mackaye `` o ' whose uprightness an ' generosity they were pleased to confess themselves no that ignorant . '' 
should write to George , ascertain the sum , and pay it without my knowledge , handing over the balance , if any , to me , when he thought fit -- `` Sae there 's the remnant -- aucht pounds , sax shillings , an ' saxpence ; tippence being deduckit for expense o ' twa letters , anent the same transaction . '' 
`` Ou , then , '' he went on , with the same provoking coolness , `` white paper 's o ' geyan use , in various operations o ' the domestic economy . 
There was nothing more to be extracted from him ; so I was fain to set to work again -LRB- a pleasant compulsion truly -RRB- with a free heart , eight pounds in my pocket , and a brainful of conjectures . 
He had never grumbled at what I considered , and still do consider , my cardinal offence , the omission of the strong political passages ; he seemed , on the contrary , in his inexplicable waywardness , to be rather pleased at it than otherwise . 
It was my publishing at all at which he growled . 
`` Ech , '' he said , `` owre young to marry , is owre young to write ; but it 's the way o ' these puir distractit times . 
And what was more , the book `` took , '' and sold , and was reviewed in People 's journals , and in newspapers ; and Mackaye himself relaxed into a grin , when his oracle , the Spectator , the only honest paper , according to him , on the face of the earth , condescended , after asserting its impartiality by two or three searching sarcasms , to dismiss me , grimly-benignant , with a paternal pat on the shoulder . 
At last it struck me , and Mackaye too , who , however he hated flunkeydom , never overlooked an act of discourtesy , that it would be right for me to call upon the dean , and thank him formally for all the real kindness he had shown me . 
are you a novel reader , Mr. Mackaye ? '' 
But these anonymies -- priests o ' the order o ' Melchisedec by the deevil 's side , without father or mither beginning o ' years nor end o ' days -- without a local habitation or a name -- as kittle to haud as a brock in a cairn -- '' `` What do you mean , Mr. Mackaye ? '' 
So I showed the letter to Mackaye , who then told me that he had taken for granted that I should come to my right mind , and had therefore already engaged an old compatriot as attorney , and the best counsel which money could procure . 
I next recollect some room or other in the gaol , Mackaye with both my hands in his ; and the rough kindly voice of the gaoler congratulating me on having `` only got three years . '' 
Gave a barrister as good as he brought , eh , Mr. Mackaye ? 
Eh , Mr. Mackaye ? 
`` I am not -- and he is not . 
I heard loud voices in the inner room , and ran forward calling his name , when , to my astonishment , out past me rushed a tall man , followed by a steaming kettle , which , missing him , took full effect on Kelly 's chest as he stood in the entry , filling his shoes with boiling water , and producing a roar that might have been heard at Temple-bar . 
And his face worked fearfully a minute . 
`` What do you mean by grumbling at the whole thing in this way , Mr. Mackaye ? 
`` Mr. Mackaye , '' said Crossthwaite , in a passion , `` I shall certainly inform the Convention of your extraordinary language ! '' 
But I tauld her no ' to fash hersel . 
An ' then she was unco fleyed when she found I didna haud wi ' the Athanasian creed . 
An ' I tauld her , na ' ; if He that died on cross was sic a ane as she and I teuk him to be , there was na that pride nor spite in him , be sure , to send a puir auld sinful , guideless body to eternal fire , because he didna a ' thegither understand the honour due to His name . '' 
`` Why , when poor dear old Mackaye 's will was read , and you raving mad in the next room , he had left all his stock-in-trade , that was , the books , to some of our friends , to form a workmen 's library with , and # 400 he 'd saved , to be parted between you and me , on condition that we 'd G.T.T. , and cool down across the Atlantic , for seven years come the tenth of April . '' 
-- you visited Mackaye in his last illness ! '' 
she said , musingly , `` if poor Mackaye had but had somewhat more faith in the future , that fatal condition would perhaps never have been attached to his bequest . 
Besides , your health is too weak , your life , I know , too valuable to your class , for us to trust you on such a voyage alone . 
