The memorial-stone which he placed over his father 's grave , and which possibly is standing now within the old church-yard of Canterbury , bore only this : -- HERE LIES THE BODY OF REUBEN JOHNS . 
IN December of the year 1820 came about a certain event of which hint has been already given by the party chiefly concerned ; and Mrs. Johns presented her husband with a fine boy , who was in due time christened -- Reuben . 
As the boy Reuben grows , and gains a firmer footing , he sometimes totters beside the clergyman in these orchard walks , clinging blindly to his hand , and lifting his uncertain feet with great effort over the interrupting tufts of grass , unheeded by the minister , who is pondering some late editorial of the `` Boston Recorder . '' 
Most noticeable of all , just now , one Philip Elderkin , -LRB- of whom more will have to be said as this story progresses , -RRB- only a year the senior of Reuben , but of far stouter frame , who looks admiringly on the minister 's child , and as he grows warm in play frights him with some show of threat , which makes the little Reuben run for cover to the arms of Rachel . 
Whereat the mother kisses him into boldness , and tells him that Phil is a good boy and means no harm to him . 
`` Benjamin , '' says Rachel , as they were nearing home upon one of these drives , `` Reuben is quite a large boy now , you know ; have you ever written to your friend , Mr. Maverick ? 
`` I wouldwrite , Benjamin ; it might be something that would be of service to Reuben . 
Reuben , clinging to the coverlet , was feeling his way along the bed , if by chance his mother 's hand might catch hold upon his ; and the minister standing with a chair before him , his eyes turned to heaven -LRB- the same calm attitude which he took at his evening prayer-meeting -RRB- , was entreating God to `` be over his house , to strengthen him , to pour down his Spirit on him , to bind up the bruised hearts , -- to spare , -- spare '' -- Even the stout Squire Elderkin withdraws outside the door , that he may the better conceal his emotion . 
`` Reuben , -- my boy ! '' 
`` Nay , Reuben , little one , blaspheme not : His ways are not as our ways . 
For the dinner , owing to the scruples of the parson , was but a cold lunch always ; and in the excited state in which the preacher found himself between services , there was little of speech ; even Reuben 's prattle , if he ventured upon it , caught a quick `` Hist ! '' 
Besides which , the parson guarded that old New England custom of beginning his Sabbath at sundown on Saturday , -- so that , by the time the supper of Sunday was fairly over , Reuben could be counting it no sin , if he should steal a run into the orchard . 
It is certain that the poor woman had enjoyed immensely those Sabbath-evening strolls through the garden and orchard , hand in hand with Reuben and the minister , -- with such keen and exhilarating sense of God 's goodness , of trust in Him , of hope , as was not invariably wakened by the sermons of her Benjamin . 
His fingers gave such a convulsive grip upon the hand of his little boy that Reuben cried out with pain , `` Papa , papa , you hurt me ! '' 
There was good Mrs. Elderkin -- who made up by her devotion to the special tenets of the clergyman many of the shortcomings of the Squire -- insisted upon sending for the poor boy Reuben , that he might forget his grief in her kindness , and in frolic with the Elderkins through that famous garden , with its huge hedges of box , -- such a garden as was certainly not to be matched elsewhere in Ashfield . 
THE boy Reuben , in those first weeks after his loss , wandered about as if in a maze , wondering at the great blank that death had made ; or , warming himself at some out-door sport , he rushed in with a pleasant forgetfulness , -- shouting , -- up the stairs , -- to the accustomed door , and bursts in upon the cold chamber , so long closed , where the bitter knowledge comes upon him fresh once more . 
Esther , good soul that she is has heard his clatter upon the floor , his bound at the old latch , and , fancying what it may mean , has come up in time to soothe him and bear him off with her . 
Has Reuben caught a fall ? '' 
`` No , sir , no fall ; he 's not harmed , sir . 
It 's only the old room , you know , sir , and he quite forgot himself . '' 
Will he come with me , Esther ? '' 
There were some invidious persons in the town who had remarked that Miss Almira Tourtelet had brought quite a new fervor to her devotional exercises in the parish within the last year , as well as a new set of ribbons to her hat ; and two maiden ladies opposite , of distinguished pretensions and long experience of life , had observed that the young Reuben , on his passage back and forth from the Elderkins , had sometimes been decoyed within the Tourtelot yard , and presented by the admiring Dame Tourtelot with fresh doughnuts . 
That boy Reuben is growin ' up wild ; he wants a woman in the house to look arter him . 
Who 's to mind Reuben in meetin ' ? 
He broke the cover off the best hymn-book in the parson 's pew last Sunday . 
So when he called at the parsonage , a few days after , -- ostensibly to learn how the minister would like his pork cut , -- it happened that little Reuben came bounding in , and that the Deacon gave him a fatherly pat upon the shoulder . 
It was over-true that the boy Reuben was running wild . 
No lad in Ashfield , of his years , could match him in mischief . 
It was eminently proper , too , that the parsonage , so long closed , should be opened freely to all his flock ; and the truth was so plain , he wondered it could have escaped him so long . 
Duty required that his home should have an established mistress ; and a mistress he forthwith determined it should have . 
Nor did she leave out of view her influence in the training of the boy Reuben . 
She cherished her own hopes of moulding him to her will , and of making him a pride to the family . 
Reuben gazed wonderingly at her , and was thinking dreamily if he should ever love her , while he felt the dreary rustle of her black silk dress swooping round as she stooped to embrace him . 
He had nothing to say ; but only looked back into that cold gray eye , as she lifted his chin with her gloved hand . 
He 's a little man , I hope , '' and she patted him on the head . 
Still Reuben looked -- wonderingly -- at her shining silk dress , at her hat , at the little curls on either temple , at the guard-chain which hung from her neck with a glittering watch-key upon it , at the bright buckle in her belt , and most of all at the gray eye which seemed to look on him from far away . 
And with the same stare of wonderment , he followed her up and down throughout the house . 
At night , Esther , who has a chamber near him , creeps in to say good-night to the lad , and asks , -- `` Do you like her , Ruby , boy ? 
`` I d' n know , '' says Reuben . 
Only in the parsonage itself did her influence find its most serious limitations , -- and these in connection with the boy Reuben . 
`` Who was it they called ` bald - head , ' Reuben ? 
`` My son , Reuben , this is very wrong . '' 
`` It is your duty to love her , Reuben ; and we can all do our duty . '' 
Reuben sh ` a n't be forced into loving his Aunt Eliza . '' 
Loitering , and playing with the balusters as he descends , the swift , keen voice comes after him , -- `` Do n't soil the paint , Reuben ! '' 
Yet , with a lingering desire for sympathy , Reuben makes his way into his father 's study ; and the minister lays down his great folio , -- it is Poole 's `` Annotations , '' -- and says , -- `` Well , Reuben ! '' 
`` Mamma never called me Master , '' said Reuben . 
The grave minister bites his lip , beckons his boy to him , -- `` Here , my son ! '' 
-- passes his arm around him , had almost drawn him to his heart , -- `` There , there , Reuben ; leave me now ; I have my sermon to finish . 
Reuben only rebelled , with the mischief of a boy : -- `` What for do you call papa Doctor ? 
The cross-ocean mails were slow in those days ; and it was not until nearly four months after the transmission of the Doctor 's letter -- he having almost forgotten it -- that Reuben came one day bounding in from the snow in mid-winter , his cheeks aflame with the keen , frosty air , his eyes dancing with boyish excitement : -- `` A letter , papa ! 
`` Reuben , call your Aunt Eliza . '' 
There is matter in the letter that concerns her , -- that in its issues will concern the boy , -- that may possibly give a new color to the life of the parsonage , and a new direction to our story . 
`` Perfectly , '' said Miss Eliza , whose memory was both keen and retentive ; `` and I remember that you have said he once passed a night with you , during the lifetime of poor Rachel , here at Ashfield . 
You have a letter from him ? '' 
`` He expresses deep sympathy at my loss , and alludes very pleasantly to the visit you speak of , all which I will not read ; after this he says , ` I little thought , when bantering you in your little study upon your family prospects , that I too was destined to become the father of a child , within a couple of years . 
`` Surely it will be a worthy and an honorable task for Benjamin '' -LRB- so thought Miss Eliza -RRB- `` to redeem this little creature from its graceless fortune ; possibly , too , the companionship may soften that wild boy , Reuben . 
She would at first , I suppose , attend school with Reuben and the young Elderkins ? '' 
It will be our purpose to place your daughter at the day-school of a worthy person , Miss Betsey Onthank , who has had large experience , and under whose tuition my boy Reuben has been for some time established . 
MEANTIME Reuben grew into a knowledge of all the town mischief , and into the practice of such as came within the scope of his years . 
The proposed introduction of the young stranger from abroad to the advantages of the parsonage home did not weigh upon his thought greatly . 
The prospect of such a change did not soften him , whatever might come of the event . 
In his private talk with Esther , he had said , `` I hope that French girl 'll be a cleverun ; if she a 'n' t , I 'll '' -- and he doubled up a little fist , and shook it , so that Esther laughed outright . 
`` I do n't play with girls , I do n't , '' said Reuben . 
`` She would n't cure me , if I wanted to , '' said Reuben , who thought it needful to speak in terms of bravado about the spinster , with whom he kept up a series of skirmishing fights from week to week . 
The truth is , the keen eye of the good lady ferreted out a great many of his pet plans of mischief , and nipped them before they had time to ripen . 
Over and over , too , she warned him against the evil associates whom he would find about the village tavern , where he strayed from time to time to be witness to some dog-fight , or to receive a commendatory glance of recognition from one Nat Boody , the tavern-keeper 's son , who had run away two years before and made a voyage down the river in a sloop laden with apples and onions to `` York . '' 
He was a head taller than Reuben , and the latter admired him intensely : we never cease admiring those `` a head taller '' than ourselves . 
Reuben absolutely pined in longing wonderment at the way in which Nat Boody could crack a coach-whip , and with a couple of hickory sticks could `` call the roll '' upon a pine table equal to a drum-major . 
It is not strange that Reuben , feeling a little of ugly constraint under the keen eye of the spinster Eliza , should admire greatly the free-and-easy manner of the tavern-boy , who had such familiarity with the world and such large range of action . 
By this politic lad , Nat Boody , the innocent Reuben was decoyed into many a little bargain which told more for the shrewdness of the tavern than for that of the parsonage . 
Thus , he bartered one day a new pocket-knife , the gift of his Aunt Mabel , of Greenwich Street , for a knit Scotch cap , half-worn , which the tavern traveler assured him could not be matched for any money . 
`` What now , Reuben ? 
`` Bought it of Nat Boody , '' says Reuben ; `` and he says there is n't another can be had . '' 
After which comes off a new skirmish , followed by the partial defeat of Reuben , who receives such a combing down -LRB- with sundry killed and wounded -RRB- as he remembers for a month thereafter . 
The truth is , that it was not altogether from admiration of the accomplished Nat Boody that Reuben was prone to linger about the tavern neighborhood . 
The spinster had so strongly and constantly impressed it upon him that it was a low and vulgar and wicked place , that the boy , growing vastly inquisitive in these years , was curious to find out what shape the wickedness took ; and as he walked by , sometimes at dusk , when thoroughly infused with the last teachings of Miss Eliza , it seemed to him that he might possibly catch a glimpse of the hoofs of some devil -LRB- as he had seen devils pictured in an illustrated Milton -RRB- capering about the doorway , -- and if he had seen them , truth compels us to say that he would have felt a strong inclination to follow them up , at a safe distance , in order to see what kind of creatures might be wearing them . 
So it happened that the inquisitive Reuben , not finding any cloven feet in his furtive observations , but encountering always either the rosy Suke , or `` Scamp , '' -LRB- which was Nat 's pet fighting-dog , -RRB- or the shoemaker , or the round-faced Mr. Boody himself , could justify and explain his aunt 's charge of the tavern wickedness only by distributing it over them all . 
And when , one Sunday , Miss Suke appeared at meeting -LRB- where she rarely went -RRB- in hat all aflame with ribbons , Reuben , sorely puzzled at the sight , says to his Aunt Eliza , -- `` Why did n't the sexton put her out ? '' 
says the spinster , horrified , -- `` what do you mean , Reuben ? '' 
says he ; `` she came from the tavern , and she lives at the tavern . '' 
said Reuben , thoughtfully , pondering if there did not lie somewhere in this averment the basis for some new moral adjustment of his own conduct . 
Pondering , as Reuben did , upon the repeated warnings of the spinster against any familiarity with the tavern or tavern people , he came in time to reckon the old creaking sign-board of Mr. Boody , and the pump in the inn-yard , as the pivotal points of all the town wickedness , just as the meeting-house was the center of all the town goodness ; and since the great world was very wicked , as he knew from overmuch iteration at home , and since communication with that wicked world was kept up mostly by the stage-coach that stopped every noon at the tavern-door , it seemed to him that relays of wickedness must flow into the tavern and town daily upon that old swaying stage-coach , just as relays of goodness might come to the meeting-house on some old lumbering chaise of a neighboring parson , who once a month , perhaps , would `` exchange '' with the Doctor . 
And it confirmed in Reuben 's mind a good deal that was taught him about natural depravity , when he found himself looking out with very much more eagerness for the rumbling coach , that kept up a daily wicked activity about the tavern , than he did for Parson Hobson , who snuffled in his reading , and who drove an old , thin-tailed sorrel mare , with lopped ears and lank jaws , that made passes at himself and Phil , if they teased her , -- as they always did . 
And Reuben , glancing around the Common , says , -- `` Yes , I 'll go . '' 
says Reuben , with a smack of the lips . 
Reuben is on the growth . 
Reuben , boy-like , passes in and out with an air of affected indifference , as if the arrangements for the new arrival had no interest for him ; and he whistles more defiantly than ever . 
She looks at the houses , the hills , the trees , the face of every passer-by , -- wondering how she shall like them all ; fashioning to herself some image of the boy Reuben and of the Aunt Eliza who are to meet her ; yet , through all the torrent of her vexed fancies , carrying a great glow of hope , and entering , with all her fresh , girlish enthusiasms unchecked , upon that new phase of life , so widely different from any thing she has yet experienced , under the grave atmosphere of a New England parsonage . 
Meantime Reuben , with a resolute show of boyish indifference , has been straying off with Phil Elderkin , although he has caught a glimpse of the carriage at the door . 
`` This is Adèle , our little French guest , Reuben . '' 
`` I should think , Reuben , you would welcome Adèle to the parsonage , '' said the spinster . 
And Reuben , glancing again from under his brow , sidles along the table , with far less of ease than he had worn when he came whistling through the hall , -- sidles nearer and nearer , till she , with a coy approach that seems to be full of doubt , meets him with a little furtive hand-shade . 
Then he , retiring a step , leans with one elbow on the friendly table , eying her curiously , and more boldly when he discovers that her look is downcast and that she seems to be warming her feet at the blaze . 
Reuben feels freer at this , knowing that the gray eye is not upon the watch ; Adèle too , perhaps ; at any rate , she lifts her face with a look that invites Reuben to speech . 
`` I should like to sail in a ship , '' said Reuben ; `` did you like it ? '' 
-- and the little maid makes an explanatory gesture with her two hands , the like of which for grace and expressiveness Reuben had certainly never seen in any girl of Ashfield . 
His eyes twinkled at it . 
said he . 
`` Because you know , '' said Reuben , consolingly , `` if the ship had sunk , you could have come on shore in the small boats . '' 
He saw a merry laugh of wonderment threatening in her face , and continued authoritatively , `` Nat Boody has been in a sloop , and he says they always carry small boats to pick up people when the big ships go down . '' 
Reuben felt a humiliating sense of being no match for the little stranger on sea topics , so he changed the theme . 
`` Yes , '' says Reuben , `` but I do n't think I 'll go very long . '' 
`` I 'm getting too big to go to a girls ' school , '' said Reuben . 
`` Pretty well , '' said Reuben ; `` but she hung up a little girl about as big as you , once , upon a nail in a corner of the school-room . '' 
In this way they prattled on , and grew into a certain familiarity ; the boy entertaining an immense respect for her French , and for her knowledge of the sea and ships ; but stubbornly determined to maintain the superiority which he thought justly to belong to his superior age and sex . 
She conceived that she would find in her a means of recovering some influence over Reuben , -- never doubting that the boy would be attracted by her frolicsome humor , and would be eager for her companionship . 
The next day Doctor Johns wrote to his friend Maverick , announcing the safe arrival of his child at Ashfield , and spoke in terms which were warm for him , of the interest which both his sister and himself felt in her welfare . 
`` He was pained , '' he said , `` to perceive that she spoke almost with gayety of serious things , and feared greatly that her keen relish for the beauties and delights of this sinful world , and her exuberant enjoyment of mere temporal blessings , would make it hard to wean her from them and to center her desires upon the eternal world . 
Phil was some three years her senior , a ruddy-faced , open-hearted fellow , who had been well-nurtured , like his two elder brothers , but in whom a certain waywardness just now appearing was attributed very much , by the closely observing mother , to the influence of that interesting , but mischievous boy , Reuben . 
Adèle thinks her very charming ; Reuben is disposed to rank her -- whatever Phil may think or say -- far above Suke Boody . 
These four , Adèle , Phil , Rose , and Reuben , are fellow-attendants at the school of the excellent Miss Betsy Onthank . 
In the heats of summer , and when the brook is low , adventurous ones , of whom Reuben is chiefest , undertake to dam its current ; and it being traditional in the school that one day a strange fisherman once took out two trout , half as long as Miss Onthank 's ruler , from under the bridge by which the high road crosses the brook , Reuben plies every artifice , whether of bent pins , or hooks purchased from the Tew partners , -LRB- unknown to Aunt Eliza , who is prejudiced against fish-hooks as dangerous , -RRB- to catch a third ; and finding other resources vain , he punches two or three holes through the bottom of his little dinner-pail , to make a scoop-net of it , and manfully wades under the bridge to explore all the hollows of that unknown region . 
While in this precarious position , he is reported by some timid child to the mistress , who straightway sallies out , ferule in hand and cap-strings flying , and orders him to land ; which Reuben , taking warning by the threatening tone of the old lady , refuses , unless she promises not to flog him ; and the kind-hearted mistress , fearing too long exposure of the lad to the chilly water , gives the promise . 
Phil and Reuben , being the oldest boys of the school , resent the indignity of being still subject to woman rule by a concerted series of rebellious out-breaks . 
One , aimed more justly by Reuben , strikes the grave mistress full upon the forehead , and leaves a red cut from which one or two beads of blood trickle down . 
Adèle gives a quick , inquiring glance at Reuben , whose face is imperturbable , rallies her courage for a struggle against the will of the mistress , and then bursts into tears . 
Reuben can not stand this . 
`` Ithrew it , marm , '' says he , with a great tremor in his voice . 
The mistress beckons him to her , and , as he walks thither , motions to a bench near her , and says gravely , -- `` Sit by me , Reuben . '' 
There he keeps till school-hours are over , wondering what shape the punishment will take . 
At last , when all are gone , the mistress leads him into her private closet , and says solemnly , -- `` Reuben , this is a crime against God . 
I forgive you ; I hope He may ; '' and she bids him kneel beside her , while she prays in a way that makes the tears start to the eyes of the boy . 
And the meekness and kindliness of the good woman make a Christian picture for the mind of Reuben , in sad contrast with the prim austerity of Aunt Eliza , -- a picture that he never loses , -- that keeps him meekly obedient for the rest of the quarter ; after which , by the advice of Miss Onthank , both Phil and Reuben are transferred to the boys ' academy upon the Common . 
She has , indeed , shared the Saturday-night instruction in the Catechism , in company with Reuben , and being quick at words , no matter how long they may be , she has learned it all ; and Reuben and she dash through `` what is required '' and `` what is forbidden '' and `` the reasons annexed '' like a pair of prancing horses , kept diligently in hand by that excellent whip , Miss Johns . 
She had taken exceptions , indeed , when , on one or two rare occasions , he had reached down the birch rod which lay upon the same hooks with the sword of Major Johns , in the study , and had called in Reuben for extraordinary discipline ; but the boy 's manifest acquiescence in the affair when his cool moments came next morning , and the melancholy air of kindness with which the Doctor went in to kiss him a good-night , after such regimen , kept alive her faith in the unvarying justice of the parson . 
The boy Reuben , too , has had his seasons of this closet struggle ; but they are rarer now ; the lad has shrewdly learned to adjust himself to all the requirements of such occasions . 
Does any question of the Doctor 's , by any catch - word , suggest an answer from the `` Shorter Catechism '' as applicable , Reuben is ready with it on the instant . 
says Reuben , briskly . 
Miss Johns has not succeeded in exciting the jealousy of Reuben , -- at least , not in the manner she had hoped . 
Her influence over him is clearly on the wane . 
He sees , indeed , her exaggerated devotion to the little stranger , -- which serves in her presence , at least , to call out all his indifference . 
Nay , when he has received some special administration of the parson 's discipline , she allows her sympathy to find play in a tender word or two that touch Reuben more than he dares to show . 
And when they meet down the orchard , away from the lynx eye of Aunt Eliza , there are rare apples far out upon overhanging limbs that he can pluck , by dint of venturous climbing , for her ; and as he sees through the boughs her delicate figure tripping through the grass , and lingers to watch it , there comes a thought that shemust be the Amanda of the story , and not Rose , -- and he , perched in the apple-tree , a glowing Mortimer . 
She , gaining in height now month by month , wins more and more upon the grave Doctor , -- wins upon Rose , who loves her as she loves her sisters , -- wins upon Phil , whose liking for her is becoming demonstrative to a degree that prompts a little jealousy in the warm-blooded Reuben , and that drives out all thought of the pink cheeks and fat arms of Suke Boody . 
At the academy , Phil and Reuben plot mischief , and they cement their friendship with not a few boyish quarrels . 
Thus , Reuben , in the way of the boyish pomologists of those days , has buried at midsummer in the orchard a dozen or more of the finest windfalls from the early apple-trees , that they may mellow , away from the air , into good eating condition , and he has marked the spot in his boyish way with a little pyramid of stones . 
Strolling down the orchard a few days later , he sees Phil coming away from that locality , with his pockets bulging out ominously , and munching a great apple with extraordinary relish . 
Perhaps there is a thought that he may design a gift out of the stolen stores for Adèle ; at any rate , Reuben flies at him . 
`` You have , '' says Reuben ; and having now come near enough to find his pyramid of stones all laid low , he says more angrily , -- `` You 're a thief ! 
`` Well , blast you , '' says Reuben , boiling with rage , `` say it ! 
At this , Reuben , though he is the shorter by two or three inches , and no match for his foe at fisticuffs , plants a blow straight in Philip 's face . 
Reuben , in a frenzy , and with a torrent of much worse language than he was in the habit of using , was struggling to turn him , when a sharp , loud voice , which they both knew only too well , came down the wind , -- `` Boys ! 
Reuben , rising , too , the instant after , and with his fury unchecked , dashes at Phil again ; when the Doctor seizes him by the collar and drags him aside . 
`` And he stole my apples and called me a liar , '' says Reuben , with the tears starting , though he tries desperately to keep them back , seeing that Phil shows no such evidence of emotion . 
There he opens a closet-door , with the sharp order , `` Step in here , Reuben , until I hear Philip 's story . '' 
This Phil tells straightforwardly , -- how he was passing through the orchard with a pocketful of apples , which a neighbor 's boy had given , and how Reuben came upon him with swift accusation , and then the fight . 
`` But he hurt me more than I hurt him , '' says Phil , wiping his nose , which showed a little ooze of blood . '' 
Next Reuben is called out . 
`` Do n't know , '' says Reuben , -- `` but he was by the place , and the stones thrown down . '' 
`` And is that sufficient cause , Reuben , for accusing your friend ? '' 
At which , Reuben , shifting his position uneasily from one foot to the other , says , -- `` I believe he did , though . '' 
says the Doctor in a voice that makes Reuben sidle away . 
`` Here , '' says Phil , commiserating him in a grand way , and beginning to discharge his pockets on the Doctor 's table , `` he may have them , if he wants them . '' 
Reuben stares at them a moment in astonishment , then breaks out with a great tremor in his voice , but roundly enough , -- `` By George ! 
`` It 's but a sneaking oath , sir ; yet '' -LRB- more gently -RRB- `` I 'm glad of your honesty , Reuben . '' 
Next morning , when Reuben goes to reconnoiter the place of his buried treasure , he finds all safe , and taking the better half of the fruit , he marches away with a proud step to the Elderkin house . 
Reuben walks away prouder yet ; is not this sweet-faced girl , after all , Amanda ? 
Reuben , it is to be feared , has bad associates . 
But within a fortnight after the change is made , Grandfather Handby drives across the country in his wagon , with Reuben seated beside him with a comic gravity on his face ; and the old gentleman , pleading the infirmities of age , and giving the boy a farewell tap on the cheek , -LRB- for he loves him , though he has whipped him almost daily , -RRB- restores him to the paternal roof . 
Parson Brummem received Brother Johns , when he drove with Reuben to the parsonage-door , on that wild waste of Bolton Hill , with all the unction of manner that belonged to him ; but it was so grave an unction as to chill poor Reuben to the marrow of his bones . 
Yet Reuben chafed not so much at the whippings -- to which he was well used -- as at the dreariness of the new home , the melancholy waste of common over which March winds blew all the year , the pinched faces that met him without other recognition than , `` One o ' Parson Brummem 's b ` ys . '' 
Nor in-doors was the aspect more inviting : a big red table around which sat six fellow-martyrs with their slates and geographies , a tall desk at which Brummem indited his sermons , and from time to time a little side-door opening timidly , through which came a weary woman 's voice , `` Ezekiel , dear , one minute ! '' 
Ah , the long , weary mornings , when the sun , pouring through the curtainless south windows a great blaze upon the oaken floor , lights up for Reuben only the cobwebbed corners , the faded roundabouts of fellow-martyrs , the dismal figures of Daboll , the shining tail-coat of Master Brummem , as he stalks up and down from hour to hour , collecting in this way his scattered thoughts for some new argumentative thrust of the quill into the sixthly or the seventhly of his next week 's sermon ! 
The rod of the master does not cure the chronic state of moody rebellion into which Reuben lapses , with these fancies on him . 
It drives him at last to an act of desperation . 
The lesson in Daboll that day was a hard one ; but it was not the lesson , or his short-comings in it , -- it was not the hand of the master , which had been heavy on him , -- but it was a vague , dismal sense of the dreariness of his surroundings , of the starched looks that met him , of the weary monotony , of the lack of sympathy , which goaded him to the final overt act of rebellion , -- which made him dash his leathern-bound arithmetic full into the face of the master , and then sit down , burying his face in his hands . 
But recovering from his amazement , he says , `` Very well , very well , Master Reuben , we will sleep upon this ; '' and then , tapping at the inner door , `` Keziah , make ready the little chamber over the hall for Master Johns : he must be by himself to-night : give him a glass of water and a slice of dry bread : nothing else , sir , -LRB- turning to Reuben now , -RRB- until you come to me to-morrow at nine , in this place , and ask my pardon ; '' and he motions him to the door . 
Reuben staggers out , -- staggers up-stairs into the dismal chamber . 
Shortly after , a slatternly maid brings his prison fare , and , with a little kindly discretion , has added secretly a roll of gingerbread . 
Reuben thanks her , and says , `` You 're a good woman , Keziah ; and I say , wo n't you fetch me my cap , there 's a good un ; it 's cold here . '' 
AT nine next morning , prayers and breakfast being dispatched , -- during which Parson Brummem had determined to leave Reuben to the sting of his conscience , -- the master appears in the school-room with his wristbands turned up , and his ferule in hand , to enforce judgment upon the culprit . 
The maid returned presently , clattering down the stairs in a great fright , -- `` Reuben 's gone , sir ! '' 
From time to time , a tall house jutted upon the road , with unctuous pig-sty under the lee of the garden-fence and wood-pile sprawling into the highway , where the parson would rein up his nag , and make inquiry after the truant Reuben . 
He was by no means a vindictive man , and could very likely have forgiven Reuben the blow he had struck . 
He had no conception of the hidden causes which had wrought in the lad such burst of anger . 
He conceived only that Satan had taken hold of him , and he had strong faith in the efficacy of the rod for driving Satan out . 
The parson still had hope that Reuben might appear at evening ; and he forecast a good turn which he would make , in such event , upon the parable of the Prodigal Son -LRB- with the omission , however , of the fatted calf -RRB- . 
Still , the prodigal Reuben did not return . 
Whereupon the parson thought it his duty to write to Brother Johns , advising him of the escape of Reuben , -- `` he having stolen away in the night , tying together and much draggling Mrs. Brummem 's pair of company sheets , -LRB- no other being out of wash , -RRB- and myself following after vainly , the best portion of a day , much perturbed in spirit , in my chaise . 
REUBEN , meantime , pushed boldly down the open road , until broad sunlight warned him to a safer path across the fields . 
`` My poor Reuben , do you know where such badness will lead you ? '' 
`` Reuben ! 
Reuben ! 
`` That , Reuben , is because you are wicked . '' 
`` There 's not much comfort in that , '' Reuben had said . 
Reuben laughed a bitter laugh , -- a laugh that made his father shudder . 
`` Sit down with me now , Reuben , and read a chapter in God 's Word ; and after it we will pray for His help . '' 
`` And do you refuse , Reuben ? '' 
And at this the Doctor , in an agony of spirit , -LRB- the boy recalled it perfectly , -RRB- had risen and paced back and forth in his study ; then , after a little , threw himself upon his knees near to Reuben , and prayed silently , with his hands clasped . 
`` I always am when I see you going on that way , '' said Reuben . 
-- and he had drawn the boy to him , gazing into the face from which the blue eyes of the lost Rachel looked calmly out , moved beyond himself . 
Is Reuben whimpering as the memory of this last tender episode comes to his memory ? 
And he munches at his roll of gingerbread with a new zest , -- confirming his vagabond purpose , that just now wavered , with a thought of those tedious Saturday nights and the `` reasons annexed , '' and Aunt Eliza 's sharp elbow nudging him upon the hard pew-benches , as she gives a muffled , warning whisper , -- `` Attend to the sermon , Reuben ! '' 
And so , with glorious visions of Sindbad the Sailor in his mind , and a cheery remembrance of Crusoe when he cut himself adrift from home and family for his wonderful adventures , Reuben pushes gallantly on through the woods in the direction of the river . 
He knows that somewhere , up or down , a sloop will be found bound for New York . 
From the heights around Ashfield , he has seen , time and again , their white sails specking some distant field of blue . 
The skipper has a shrewd suspicion how the matter stands , and , with a kindly sympathy for the lad , consents to give him passage on condition he drops a line into the mail to tell his friends which way he has gone ; and taking a dingy sheet of paper from the locker under his berth , he seats Reuben with pen in hand at the cabin-table , whereupon the boy writes , -- `` Dear Father , -- I have come away from school . 
Reuben lounged upon the sunny side of the mainsail , thinking , with respectful pity , of the poor fagged fellows in roundabouts who were seated at that hour before the red desks in Parson Brummem 's school-room . 
`` I 'm glad , '' said Reuben , who would have been doubly glad , if he had known of his narrow escape at the last landing . 
The truth is , that a pocket-comb was the extent of Reuben 's equipment for the voyage . 
`` Well , well , '' says the Captain , `` we must keep this toggery for the city , you know ; '' and he finds a blue woolen shirt , -- for the boy is of good height for his years , -- and a foremast hand shortens in a pair of old duck trousers for him , in which Reuben paces up and down the deck , with a mortal dread at first lest the boom may make a dash against the wind and knock him overboard , in quite sailorly fashion . 
The shores , too , are changing from hour to hour ; a brig drifts within hail of them , which Reuben watches , half envying the fortunate fellows in red shirts and tasseled caps aboard , who are bound to Cuba , and in a fortnight 's time can pluck oranges off the trees there , to say nothing of pine-apple and sugarcane . 
Over the Saybrook Bar there is a plunging of the vessel which horrifies him somewhat ; but smooth weather follows , with long lines of hills half-faded on the rim of the water , and the country sounds at last all dead . 
Captain Saul is fast at his helm , while the big boom creaks and crashes from side to side as he beats up the narrowing channel , rounding Throg 's Point , where the light-house and old white-washed fort stand shining in the sun , -- skirting low rocky islands , doubling other points , dashing at half-tide through the roar and whirl of Hell Gate , -- Reuben glowing with excitement , and mindful of Kidd and of his buried treasure along these shores . 
`` Now mind the rogues , Reuben , '' said Captain Saul , when they were fairly alongside the dock ; `` and keep by your bunk for a day or two , boy . 
THE Doctor is not a little shocked by the note which he receives from Reuben , and which comes too late for the interception of the boy upon the river . 
REUBEN , taking the advice of Captain Saul , with whom he would cheerfully have gone to China , had the sloop been bound thither , came back to his bunk on the first night after a wandering stroll through the lower part of the city . 
There was an air of irony in this speech which Reuben was quick to perceive ; and the knowing look of Captain Saul at once informed him that all the romance of his runaway voyage was at an end . 
Brindlock , a good-natured , self-indulgent woman , was greatly taken with the unaffected country naturalness of the lad , and was agreeably surprised at his very presentable appearance : for Reuben at this date -- he may have been thirteen or fourteen -- was of good height for his years , with a profusion of light , wavy hair , a thoughtful , blue eye , and a lurking humor about the lip which told of a great faculty for mischief . 
eh , Reuben ? '' 
From all which it came about , that Mrs. Brindlock , in writing to the Doctor to inform him of Reuben 's safe arrival , added an urgent request that the boy might be allowed to pass the winter with them in New York ; in which event he could either attend school , -LRB- there being an excellent one in her neighborhood , -RRB- or , if the Doctor preferred , Mr. Brindlock could give him some light employment in the counting-room , and try his capacity for business . 
`` You see , Doctor , '' -- and he slipped a finger into a button-hole of the good parson 's , -LRB- the only man in the parish who would have ventured upon such familiarity , -RRB- -- `` I think we 've been a little strict with Reuben , -- a little strict . 
He 's a fine , frank , straightfor ` ard lad , but impulsive , -- impulsive , Doctor . 
The result was , that permission was given for the stay of Reuben , on condition that Mr. Brindlock could give him constant occupation , and that he should be regular in his attendance on the Sabbath at the Fulton-Street Church . 
Reuben writes the apology insisted upon to Mr. Brummem in this style : -- `` My dear Sir , -- I am sorry that I threw ` Daboll ' in your face as I did , and hope you will forgive the same . 
Yet the spinster aunt was not used to flatter Reuben with any such mention as this . 
`` What can she mean , '' said he , musingly , `` by talking such stuff to me ? '' 
Phil Elderkin , too , after a little , writes long letters that are full of the daily boy-life at Ashfield : -- how `` the chestnutting has been first-rate this year , '' and he has a bushel of prime ones seasoning in the garret ; -- how Sam Troop , the stout son of the old postmaster , has had a regular tussle with the master in school , `` hot and heavy , over the benches , and all about , and Sam was expelled , and old Crocker got a black eye , and , darn him , he 's got it yet '' ; -- and how `` somebody -LRB- name unknown -RRB- tied a smallish tin kettle to old Hobson 's sorrel mare 's tail last Saturday night , and the way she went down the street was a caution ! '' 
Even the Tourtelots `` quite missed the boy ; '' though over and over the brindled cow of the Deacon was found to have slipped the bars , -LRB- a thing the orderly creature was never known to do of her own head , -RRB- and was reported at twilight by the sober-faced Reuben as strolling far down upon the Common . 
And what of Reuben , whose mischief , you told me , threatened such fearful results ? 
I do n't believe he ever told Reuben so . 
`` It was funny what you said of Reuben ; for you must know that he is living in the city now , and happens upon us here sometimes with a very grand air , -- as fine , I dare say , as the people about Marseilles . 
But I do n't think I like him any better ; I do n't know if I like him as well . 
Miss Eliza is , of course , very proud of him , as she always was . '' 
You do not know it , Adaly , but there was once a dear one , whom I loved perhaps too well ; -- she was the mother of my poor Reuben ; God only knows how I loved her ! 
After a little the stout mistress opens the door , and wipes her fingers on her apron , and shakes hands , and bounces into the keeping-room to throw up the window and open the blinds , and dusts off the great rocking-chair for the Doctor , and keeps saying all the while that they are ` very back ` ard with the spring work , and she really had no time to slick up , ' and asks after Miss Eliza and Reuben , and the Tourtelots , and all the people on the street , so fast that I wonder she can keep her breath ; and the Doctor looks so calm , and has no time to say anything yet . 
The spinster , though she has become unconsciously attached to Adèle to a degree of which she hardly believes herself capable , is yet not so much disconcerted by the thought of any violence to her affections , -- for all violence of this kind she has schooled herself to regard with cool stoicism , -- but the possible interruption of her ambitious schemes with respect to Reuben and Adèle discomposes her sadly . 
Her assurance in regard to the improved habits and character of Reuben , and her iteration of the wonderful attachment which the Brindlocks bear to the lad , have a somewhat strained air to the ear of Adèle . 
Perhaps it was in view of its severity , that , on or about New Year 's Day , there came to the parsonage a gift from Reuben for Adèle , in the shape of a fur tippet , very much to the gratification of Miss Eliza and to the pleasant surprise of the Doctor . 
`` Reuben , '' says Rose , -- in a tone as if a blush ran over her face at the utterance . 
`` I suppose you will see Reuben in the city , '' Rose had said , in a chance way . 
And of Reuben neither of them said any thing more . 
The Brindlocks , of course , with whom the Doctor was quartered during his stay , took an early occasion to show civilities to Mr. Maverick and his daughter ; and Mrs. Brindlock kindly offered her services to Adèle in negotiating such additions to her wardrobe as the proud father insisted upon her making ; and in the necessary excursions up and down the city , Reuben , by the pleasant devices of Mrs. Brindlock , was an almost constant out-of-door attendant . 
Adèle did not openly resent the proffered patronage , but , on the contrary , accepted it with an excess of grateful expressions , whose piquant irony , for two whole days , Reuben , with his blunter perceptions , never suspected . 
But suspicion came at last , and full knowledge broke upon him under a musical little laugh of Adèle 's , -LRB- half smothered in her kerchief , -RRB- when the gallant young man had blundered into some idle compliment . 
But if the laugh of Adèle cured Reuben of his patronage , it did not cure him of thought about her . 
It kindled a new train , indeed , of whose drift he was himself unconscious . 
said Reuben . 
And he could . 
But this did not forbid his accepting his Aunt Mabel 's invitation for the next day 's shopping . 
He is not altogether the same lad we saw upon the deck of the Princess , under Captain Saul . 
REUBEN has in many respects vastly improved under his city education . 
says the Doctor to himself , quickening his laggard step to keep pace with Reuben . 
`` I hope , Reuben , that he makes a worthy use of his wealth . '' 
`` Oh , he gives thunderingly to the missionary societies , '' said Reuben , with a glibness that grated on the father 's ear . 
`` You do n't mean to say that you smoke , Reuben ? '' 
said Reuben , as they passed on . 
`` I hope , Reuben , you never enter those doors ? '' 
said the Doctor , stopping in his walk and confronting Reuben with a stern brow , -- `` is it possible , my son , that I hear you talking in this familiar way of play-actors ? 
said Reuben , a little startled by the Doctor 's earnestness , the truth is , Aunt Mabel goes occasionally , like ` most all the ladies ; but we go , you know , to see the moral pieces , generally . '' 
`` Reuben ! 
`` That 's the Tract Society building yonder , '' said Reuben , wishing to divert the Doctor , if possible , from the special objects of his reflections . 
`` No , my son , we have no time ; and yet '' -- meditating , and thrusting his hand in his pocket -- `` there is a tract or two I would like to buy for you , Reuben . '' 
`` Go in , then , '' says Reuben . 
`` No , my son , no , '' said the Doctor , disheartened by the blithe air of Reuben . 
`` Oh , no , '' says Reuben , gayly . 
Reuben had improved , as we said , by his New York schooling . 
He was quick of apprehension , well informed ; and his familiarity with the counting-room of Mr. Brindlock had given him a business promptitude that was specially agreeable to the Doctor , whose habits in that regard were of woful slackness . 
It was only too apparent that Reuben had not derived the desired improvement from attendance at the Fulton-Street Church . 
That attendance had been punctual , indeed , for nearly all the first year of his city life , in virtue of the inexorable habit of his education ; but Dr. Mowry had not won upon him by any personal magnetism . 
When Reuben had presented to him the credentials from his father , -LRB- which he could hardly have done , save for the urgency of the Brindlocks , -RRB- the ponderous Doctor had patted him upon the shoulder , and said , -- `` My young friend , your father is a most worthy man , -- most worthy . 
The Doctor appeared to Reuben a man solemnly preoccupied with the immensity of his charge ; and it seemed to him -LRB- though it was doubtless a wicked thought of the boy -RRB- that the ponderous minister would have counted it a matter of far smaller merit to instruct , and guide , and save a wanderer from the country , than to perform the same offices for a good fat sinner of the city . 
As we have said , the memory of old teachings , for a year or more , made any divergence from the severe path of boyhood seem to Reuben a sin ; and these divergencies so multiplied by easy accessions as to have made him , after a time , look upon himself very confidently , and almost cheerily , as a reprobate . 
Thus the Devil twists his vague yearning for a condition of spiritual repose into a pleasantly smacking lash with which to scourge his grosser appetites ; so that , upon the whole , Reuben drives a fine , showy team along the high-road of indulgence . 
The character of Reuben at this stage would surely have offered a good subject for the study and the handling of Dr. Mowry , if that worthy gentleman could have won his way to the lad 's confidence ; but the ponderous methods of the city parson showed no fineness of touch . 
Even the father , as we have seen , could not reach down to any religious convictions of the son ; and Reuben keeps him at bay with a banter , and an exaggerated attention to the personal comforts of the old gentleman , that utterly baffle him . 
Reuben holds too much in dread the old catechismal dogmas and the ultimate `` anathema maran-atha . '' 
MAVERICK hurried his departure from the city ; and Adèle , writing to Rose to announce the programme of her journey , says only this much of Reuben : -- `` We have of course seen R -- , who was very attentive and kind . 
Reuben has been here on a flying visit to the parsonage ; and how proud Miss Eliza was of her nephew!He came over to see Phil , I suppose ; but Phil had gone two weeks before . 
`` I never liked her countenance , Adèle , '' said the spinster , in her solemn manner ; `` and I am rejoiced that you will not be under her influence the present summer . '' 
`` Papa has never seen her . '' 
`` Not personally , my child , since he had never seen her . 
For , unconsciously , he has grown to love her as he loves no one save his boy Reuben ; unconsciously his heart has mellowed under her influence . 
MEANTIME Reuben was gaining , month by month , in a knowledge of the world , -- at least of such portion of it as came within the range of his vision in New York . 
He imagined it , indeed , a very large portion , and took airs upon himself in consequence . 
He thought with due commiseration of the humble people of Ashfield . 
He wonders how he could have tolerated so long their simple ways . 
The Eagle Tavern , with its creaking sign-board , does not loom so largely as it once did upon the horizon of his thought . 
That he should ever have trembled as a lad at walking up to the little corner bar , in company with Phil ! 
He has put Phil through some of the `` sights : '' for that great lout of a country lad -LRB- as Reuben could not help counting him , though he liked his big , honest heart for all that -RRB- had found him out , when he came to New York to take ship for the West Indies . 
`` I say , Phil , '' Reuben had said , as he marched his old schoolmate up Broadway , `` it 's rather a touch beyond Ashfield , this , is n't it ? 
`` I should like to see old Deacon Tourtelot , '' continued Reuben , `` with Huldy on his arm , sloping down Broadway . 
`` I wonder if they 'd knock off at sundown Saturday night , '' continued Reuben , mockingly . 
It seemed to him , in his honesty , that Reuben was wantonly cutting asunder all the ties that once bound him to the old home . 
It pained him , moreover , to think -- as he did , with a good deal of restiveness -- that his blessed mother , and Rose perhaps , and the old Squire , his father , were among the Ashfield people at whom Reuben sneered so glibly . 
And when he parted with him upon the dock , -- for Reuben had gone down to see him off , -- it was with a secret conviction that their old friendship had come to an end , and that thenceforth they two could have no sympathies in common . 
The talk of Reuben was , after all , but the ebullition of a city conceit , -- a conceit which is apt to belong to all young men at some period of their novitiate in city life . 
He was mainly anxious to impress upon Phil the great gain which he had made in knowledge of the world in the last few years , and to astound him with the great difference between his present stand-point and the old one , when they were boys together on the benches of the Ashfield meeting-house . 
And on the very night after Reuben had parted from Phil , when he came late to his chamber , dazed with some new scene at the theater , and his brain flighty with a cup too much , it may well have happened , that , in his fevered restlessness , as the clock near by chimed midnight , his thoughts ran back to that other chamber where once sweet sleep always greeted him , -- to the overhanging boughs that rustled in the evening air at the window , -- to the shaded street that stretched away between the silent houses , -- to the song of the katydids , chattering their noisy chorus , -- to the golden noons when light feet tripped along the village walks , -- to the sunny smiles of Rose , -- to the kindly entreaty of good Mrs. Elderkin , -- and more faintly , yet more tenderly , than elsewhere , to a figure and face far remote , and so glorified by distance that they seem almost divine , a figure and a face that are somehow associated with the utterance of his first prayer , -- and with the tender vision before him , he mumbles the same prayer and falls asleep with it upon his lip . 
Yet , to tell truth , he is not wholly untouched by certain little rallying , coquettish speeches of Miss Sophia in respect to Adèle , who , in her open , girl-like way , has very likely told the full story of Reuben 's city attentions . 
Reuben had , indeed , been piqued by the French girl 's reception of his patronage , and he had been fairly carried off his feet in view of her easy adaptation to the ways of the city , and of her graceful carriage under all the toilet equipments which had been lavished upon her , under the advice of Mrs. Brindlock . 
Miss Eliza Johns was of course delighted with this attention of Reuben 's , and made it the occasion of writing him a long letter , -LRB- and her letters were very rare , by reason of the elaboration she counted necessary , -RRB- in which she set forth the excellence of Adèle 's character , her `` propriety of speech , '' her `` lady-like deportment , '' her `` cheerful observance of duty , '' and her `` eminent moral worth , '' in such terms as stripped all romance from Reuben 's recollection of her , and made him more than half regret his gallant generosity . 
The Doctor writes to him regularly once a fortnight ; of which missives Reuben reads as regularly the last third , containing , as it does usually , a little home news or casual mention of Miss Rose Elderkin or of the family circle . 
Ah , how much of such good advice had been twisted into tapers for the lighting of Reuben 's cigars ! 
If the old gentleman had been in any imminent bodily peril , it is certain that Reuben would have rushed far and wide to aid him . 
It is certain that he loved him ; it is certain that he venerated him ; and yet , and yet , -LRB- he said to himself , -RRB- `` I do wish he would keep this solemn stuff for his sermons . 
It would have pained the old gentleman grievously to know the full extent of the wickedness of his boy , -- to have looked for a moment into the haunts to which he was beguiled by his companions of the city , -- to have seen his flushed and swollen face after some of those revels to which Reuben was a party . 
And when Mr. Brindlock wrote , as he took occasion to do about this period , regretting the extravagance of Reuben and the bad associations into which he had fallen , and urging the Doctor to impress upon him the advantages of regularity and of promptitude , and to warn him that a very advantageous business career which was opening upon him would be blighted by his present habits , the poor gentleman was fairly taken aback . 
The Doctor wrote to Reuben with even more than his usual unction . 
But he could not bring himself to warn his boy of the mere blight to his worldly career , -- that was so small a matter ! 
Yet he laid before him in graver terms than he had ever done before the weight of the judgment of an offended God , and the fearful retribution that would certainly overtake the ungodly . 
Reuben lighted his cigar with the letter , not unfeelingly , but indifferently , and ventured even upon a blasphemous joke with his companions . 
`` It ought to burn , '' he says . 
In his agony of mind he went to consult Squire Elderkin , and laid before him the dire accounts he had heard . 
MR. BRINDLOCK had , may be , exaggerated somewhat the story of Reuben 's extravagances , but he was anxious that a word of caution should be dropped in his ear from some other lips than his own . 
The allowance from the Doctor , notwithstanding all the economies of Miss Eliza 's frugal administration , would have been , indeed , somewhat narrow , and could by no means have kept Reuben upon his feet in the ambitious city-career upon which he had entered . 
The prospects of Reuben , however , he being the favorite nephew of a well-established merchant , were regarded by the most indifferent observers as extremely flattering ; and Mr. Bowrigg was not disposed to look unfavorably upon the young man 's occasional attentions to the dashing Sophia . 
It was some time in the month of September , of the same autumn in which poor Adèle lay sick at the parsonage , that Reuben came in one night , at twelve or thereabout , to his home at the Brindlocks ' , -LRB- living at this time in the neighborhood of Washington Square , -RRB- with his head cruelly battered , and altogether in a very piteous plight . 
Mrs. Brindlock , terribly frightened , -- in her woman 's way , -- was for summoning the Doctor at once ; but Reuben pleaded against it ; he had been in a row , that was all , and had caught a big knock or two . 
The truth was , he had been upon one of his frolics with his old boon companions ; and it so happened that one had spoken sneeringly of the parson 's son , in a way which to the fiery young fellow seemed to cast ridicule upon the old gentleman . 
And thereupon Reuben , though somewhat maudlin with wine , yet with the generous spirit not wholly quenched in him , had entered upon a glowing little speech in praise of the old gentleman and of his profession , -- a speech which , if it were garnished with here and there an objectionable expletive , was very earnest and did him credit . 
`` Good for Reuben ! '' 
`` Get him a pulpit ! '' 
`` Hang me , if he would n't preach better now than the old man ! '' 
burst out Reuben . 
And from this the matter came very shortly to blows , in the course of which poor Reuben was severely punished , though he must have hit some hard blows , for he was wondrously active , and not a few boxing-lessons had gone to make up the tale of his city accomplishments . 
Howbeit , he was housed now , in view of his black eye , for many days , and had ample time for reflection . 
The Doctor 's missive , very likely , did not impress him more than the scores that had gone before it ; but there was a practical tact , and good-natured , common-sense homeliness , in the urgence of the Squire , which engaged all Reuben 's attention ; and the words of the good woman , his wife , were worth more than a sermon to him . 
`` We all want , '' she writes , `` to think well of you , Reuben ; we dothink well of you . 
We all pray for your well-being and happiness , Reuben ; and I dohope you have not forgotten to pray for it yourself . '' 
`` I feel it my duty to write you , Reuben , '' she says , `` and to inform you how very much we have all been shocked and astonished by the accounts which reach us of your continued indifference to religious duties , and your reckless extravagance . 
Adèle , then , is sick ; and upon that point alone in the Aunt 's letter the thought of Reuben fastens . 
He knows where she must be lying , -- in that little room at the parsonage looking out upon the orchard ; there are white hangings to the bed ; careful steps go up and down the stair-way . 
There had never been much illness in the parson 's home , indeed , but certain early awful days Reuben just remembers ; there were white bed-curtains , -LRB- he recalls those , -RRB- and a face as white lying beneath ; the nurse , too , lifting a warning finger at him with a low `` hist ! '' 
All which drifting over the mind of Reuben , and stirring his sensibilities with a quick rush of vague , boyish griefs , induces a train of melancholy religious musings , which , if they do no good , can hardly , it would seem , work harm . 
Under their influence , indeed , -LRB- which lasted for several days , -RRB- he astonished his Aunt Mabel , on the next Sunday , by declaring his intention to attend church . 
And Reuben listens to his reading of the hymn , -- `` Return , O wanderer ! 
Heaven forgive us , if we do ; but nothing can more definitely describe the seemingly electrical influences which were working upon the mind of Reuben , as he caught , ever and again , breaking through the torrent of the speaker 's language , the tender , appealing refrain , `` My son , give me thine heart ! '' 
And Reuben says to himself , yet almost audibly , `` I will . '' 
The sermon was altogether such a one as to act with prodigious force upon so emotional a nature as that of Reuben . 
Reuben asked himself , as he went out of the church , with his pride all subdued . 
And the very atmosphere seemed to wear a new glory , and a new lien of brotherhood to tie him to every creature he met upon the thronged streets . 
All the time , too , was sounding in his ears -LRB- as if he had yielded full assent -RRB- the mellow and grateful cadence of the hymn , -- `` Return , O wanderer ! 
REUBEN wrote to the Doctor , under the influence of this new glow of feeling , in a way that at once amazed and delighted the good old gentleman . 
`` Be steadfast , my dear Reuben , '' he writes . 
And Reuben , still living in that roseate atmosphere of religious meditation , is schoked by this story of the danger of Adèle . 
Is he not himself in some measure accountable ? 
In those days when they raced through the Catechism together , did he never provoke her mocking smiles by his sneers at the ponderous language ? 
Did he not tempt her to some mischievous sally of mirth , on many a day when they were kneeling in couple about the family altar . 
And in the flush of his exalted feeling he writes her how bitterly he deplores all this , and , borrowing his language from the sermons he now listens to with greed , he urges Adèle `` to plant her feet upon the Rock of Ages , to eschew all vanities , and to trust to those blessed promises which were given from the foundation of the world . '' 
Indeed , there is a fervor in his feeling which pushes him into such extravagances of expression as the Doctor would have found it necessary to qualify , if Adèle , poor child , had not been by far too weak for their comprehension . 
Reuben will come out all right ; we shall see him settling down soon to good merchant habits again . '' 
But the animusof the new tendency was far stronger than Brindlock had supposed ; and within a month Reuben had come to a quiet rupture with his city patron . 
The smack of worldliness was too strong for him . 
He felt that he must go back to his old home , and place himself again under the instructions of the father whose counsels he had once so spurned . 
`` It is very likely , '' said Reuben ; `` or possibly a missionary . '' 
`` Well , Reuben , if you must , you must . 
And so they parted ; and Reuben went home to Ashfield , taking an affectionate leave of his Aunt Mabel , who had been over-kind to him , and praying in his heart that that good , but exceedingly worldly woman , might some day look on serious things as he looked on them . 
He had thought in his wild days , that , when he should go back to Ashfield for any lengthened stay , -LRB- for thus far his visits had been few and flying ones , -RRB- he should considerably astonish the old people there by his air and city cultivation . 
It is quite possible that he had laid by certain flaming cravats which he thought would have a killing effect in the country church , and anticipated a very handsome triumph by the easy swagger with which he would greet old Deacon Tourtelot and ask after the health of Miss Almira . 
He even left behind him some of the most flashy articles of his attire , with the request to Aunt Mabel that she would bestow them upon some needy person , or , in default of this , make them over to the Missionary Society for distribution among the heathen , -- a purpose for which some of them , by reason of their brilliant colors , were certainly most admirably adapted . 
Under his changed view of life , it appeared to Reuben that every unnecessary indulgence , whether of dress or food , was a sin . 
With the glowing enthusiasm of youth , he put such beautiful construction upon the rules of Christian faith as would hardly survive the rough every-day wear of the world . 
So Reuben goes back to Ashfield with a very modest and quiet bearing . 
He is to look with other eyes now upon the life there , and to judge how far it will sustain his new-found religious sympathies . 
All meet him kindly . 
`` Welcome home again , Reuben ! 
Well , well , they thought you were given over to bad courses ; but it 's all right now , I hear ; quite upon the other tack , eh , Reuben ? 
And Reuben thanked him , thinking perhaps how odd it was that this worldly old gentleman , of whom he had thought , since his late revulsion of feeling , with a good deal of quiet pity , should commend what was so foreign to his own habit . 
The serene , kindly look of Mrs. Elderkin was in itself the tenderest welcome ; and it was an ennobling thought to Reuben , that he had at last placed himself -LRB- or fancied he had -RRB- upon the same moral plane with that good woman . 
`` It is delightful to think that Reuben is safe at last , '' said Mrs. Elderkin , after he had gone . 
`` I wish he were , my child ; it might have a good influence upon him : and poor Adèle , too ; she must surely listen to Reuben , he is so earnest and impassioned . 
Miss Eliza had shown a well-considered approval of Reuben 's change of opinions ; but this had not forbidden a certain reserve of worldly regret that he should give up so promising a business career . 
The spinster received Reuben with much warmth , in which her stately proprieties of manner , however , were never for one moment forgotten . 
Adèle , who was now fortunately in a fair way of recovery , but who was still very weak , and who looked charmingly in her white chamber-dress with its simple black belt , received him with a tender-heartedness of manner which he had never met in her before . 
The letter of Reuben had been given her , and , with all its rawness of appeal , had somehow touched her religious sentiment in a way it had never been touched before . 
He had put so much of his youthful enthusiasm into his language , it showed such an elasticity of hope and joy , as impressed her very strangely . 
In this attitude of mind , wearied by struggle and by fantasies , came to her the letter of Reuben , -- the joyous outburst of a pioneer who had found the way . 
But Reuben had leaped to the conquest , and carried a blithe heart with him . 
`` I thank you very much for your letter , Reuben , '' said Adèle , and she looked eagerly into his face for traces of that triumph which so glittered throughout his letter . 
And she did not look in vain ; for , whether it were from the warm , electric touch of those white , thin fingers of hers , or the eager welcome in her eyes , or from more sacred cause , a great joy shone in his face , -- a joy that from thenceforward they began to share in common . 
Not a doubt , not a penalty , not a mystic , blind utterance of the Catechism , but the glowing enthusiasm of Reuben invested it with cheery promise , or covered it with the wonderful glamour of his hope . 
Between these two young hearts -- the one , till then , all doubt and weariness , and the other , just now , all impassioned exuberance -- there came a grafting , by virtue of which the religious sentiment in Adèle shot away from all the severities around her into an atmosphere of peace and joy . 
The village people all saw it , and said among themselves , `` If he has won her from the iniquities of the world , he can win her for a wife , if he will . '' 
When , therefore , Adèle , on one of her early walks with Reuben , after her recovery was fully established , encountered , in a remote part of the village , Madame Arles , trailing after her the little child of shame , -- and yet darting toward the French girl , at first sight , with her old effusion , -- Adèle met her coolly , so coolly , indeed , that the poor woman was overcome , and , hurrying the little child after her , disappeared with a look of wretchedness upon her face that haunted Adèle for weeks and months . 
Nor did Adèle seek to comprehend in their entireness all those wearisome dogmatic utterances which were familiar to her tongue , and which she could understand might form the steps to fullness of belief for the rigorous mind of the Doctor : for herself there was other ladder of approach , in finding which the emotional experiences of Reuben had been of such signal service . 
To Reuben himself those experiences brought a temporary exhilaration , but as yet no peace . 
He has a vague notion creeping over him , with fearfully chilling effect , that his sensibilities have been wrought upon rather than his reason ; a confused sense of having yielded to enthusiasms , which , if they once grow cool , will leave him to slump back into a mire worse than the old . 
Therefore he must , by all possible means , keep them at fever-heat . 
A dim consciousness , however , possessed him , that , for the feeding of the necessary fires , there would be needed an immense consumption of fuel , -- such stock as an ordinary experience could hardly hope to supply . 
By degrees , this consciousness took the force of conviction , and he became painfully sensible of his own limitations . 
There was a weary , matter-of-fact world to struggle with , in whose homely cares and interests he must needs be a partner . 
He could not wear the gyves of a Gabriel on the muddy streets of life , or carry the ecstatic language of praise into the world 's talk : if he could , he would be reckoned insane , and not unjustly , since sanity is , after all , but a term to express the average normal condition of mind . 
Adèle , with a quick eye , sees the growing unrest , and , with a great weight of gratitude upon her heart , says , timidly , -- `` Can I help you , Reuben ? '' 
`` Reuben , '' he says , `` these struggles of yours are struggles with the Great Adversary of Souls . 
Yet , for all this , Reuben makes a brave struggle to wear with an outward calm the burden of the professions he has made , -- a terrible burden , when he finds what awful chasms in his faith have been overleaped by his vaulting Quixotic fervor . 
Wearily he labors to bridge them across , with over-much reading , there in the quiet study of the parsonage , of Newton and Tillotson and Butler ; and he takes a grim pleasure -LRB- that does not help him -RRB- in following the amiable argumentation of Paley . 
Reuben had been poring for hours -- how wearily ! 
-- over the turgid dogmas of one of the elder divines , when he suddenly dashed the book upon the floor . 
Reuben ! 
Reuben ! '' 
If it be , I 'll cheat him , by making a clean breast of it . 
`` Very likely , '' says Reuben . 
`` It was not thus with you three months ago , Reuben , '' continues the Doctor , in a softened tone . 
The old man shuddered , and lifted his hands , as he was wont to do in his most earnest pleas at the Throne of Grace . 
`` The muddle of the world and the theologies has come in since , '' continued Reuben , `` and the base professions I see around me , and the hypocrisies and the cant , have taken away the glow . 
The Doctor said , measuredly , -LRB- as if the Book were before him , -RRB- -- ``` Some seeds fell upon stony places , where they had not much earth ; and forthwith they sprung up , because they had no deepness of earth . 
Reuben ! 
Reuben ! 
`` It 's a long agony , '' said Reuben ; and he rose and paced back and forth for a time ; then suddenly stopping before the Doctor , he laid his hand upon his shoulder , -LRB- the boy was of manly height now , and overtopped the old gentleman by an inch , -RRB- -- `` Father , it grieves me to pain you , -- indeed it does ; but truth is truth . 
And at this Reuben went out , -- out far upon the hills , from which he saw the village roofs , and the spire , and the naked tree-tops , the fields all bare and brown , the smoke of a near house curling lazily into the sky ; and the only sound that broke the solemn stillness was the drumming of a partridge in the woods or the harsh scream of a belated jay . 
Never had Reuben been more kind or attentive to the personal wants of the old gentleman than on the days which followed upon this interview . 
There was something almost like a daughter 's solicitude in his watchfulness . 
On the next Sunday the Doctor preached with an emotion that was but poorly controlled , and which greatly mystified his people . 
Twice in the afternoon his voice came near to failing . 
Reuben knew where the grief lay , but wore a composed face ; and as he supported the old gentleman home after service , he said , -LRB- but not so loudly that Adèle could hear , who was tripping closely behind , -RRB- -- `` Father , I grieve for you , -- upon my soul I do ; but it 's fate . '' 
`` Fate , Reuben ? '' 
The Doctor was too much mortified by this revelation of Reuben 's present state of feeling to make it the subject of conversation , even with Miss Eliza , and much less with the elders of his flock . 
To Squire Elderkin , indeed , whose shrewd common sense he had learned to value even in its bearings upon the `` weightier matters of the law , '' he had dropped some desponding reflections in regard to the willful impetuosity of his poor son Reuben , from which the shrewd Squire at once suspected the difficulty . 
`` It 's the blood of the old Major , '' he said . 
Miss Eliza , though she is not made a confidante in these latter secrets of the study , can not , however , fail to see that Reuben 's constancy to the Doctor 's big folios is on the wane , and that symptoms of his old boyish recklessness occasionally show themselves under the reserve which has grown out of his later experiences . 
Nor is this the limit of her blindness : perceiving , as she imagines she does , the ripening of all her plans with respect to himself and Adèle , she thinks to further the matter by dropping hints of the rare graces of Adèle and of her brilliant prospects , -- assuring him how much that young lady 's regard for him has been increased since his conversion , -LRB- which word has to Reuben just now a dreary and most detestable sound , -RRB- and in a way which she counts playful , but which to him is agaçantto the last degree , she forecasts the time when Reuben will have his pretty French wife , and a rich one . 
Left to himself , the youth would very likely have found enough to admire in the face and figure and pleasantly subdued enthusiasm of Adèle ; but the counter-irritant of the spinster 's speech drove him away on many an evening to the charming fireside of the Elderkins , where he spent not a few beguiling hours in listening to the talk of the motherly mistress of the household , and in watching the soft hazel eyes of Rose , as they lifted in eager wonderment at some of his stories of the town , or fell -LRB- the long lashes hiding them with other beauty -RRB- upon the work where her delicate fingers plied with a white swiftness that teased him into trains of thought which were not wholly French . 
For her , Miss Eliza 's staple praises of Reuben , and her adroit stories of the admiration and attachment of Mrs. Brindlock for her nephew , were distasteful to the last degree . 
Adèle felt a tender gratitude toward Reuben , which it seemed to her the boisterous affection of the spinster could never approach . 
She apprehended his spiritual perplexities more keenly than the austere aunt , and saw with what strange ferment his whole nature was vexed . 
Had he been a brother by blood , she could not have felt for him more warmly . 
Whether Reuben were present or away , her songs rose , with a sweeter , a serener , and a loftier cheer than of old under the roof of the parsonage ; and , as of old , the Doctor laid down his book and listened , as if an angel sang . 
`` I hear still further , -- from what sources it will be unnecessary for me now to explain , -- that a close intimacy has grown up latterly between your son Reuben and my dear Adèle , and that this intimacy has provoked village rumors of the possibility of some nearer tie . 
Whatever your Christian forgiveness or your love for Adèle -LRB- and I know she is capable of winning your love -RRB- may suggest , I can never consent that any stain should be carried upon your family record by any instrumentality of mine . 
If necessary to this end , and Reuben be still resident at the parsonage , I pray you to place Adèle with Mrs. Brindlock , or other proper person , until such time as I am able to come and take her once more under my own protection . 
When Reuben came presently to summon Adèle to their evening engagement at the Elderkins ' , the Doctor followed their retreating figures , as they strolled out of the parsonage-gate , with a new and strange interest . 
Now that such a result was wholly impracticable and impossible , it did occur to him that perhaps no helpmeet for Reuben could so surely guide him in the way of truth . 
But of any perplexity of judgment on this score he was now wholly relieved . 
If his own worldly pride had not stood in the way , -LRB- and he was dimly conscious of a weakness of this kind , -RRB- the wish of Maverick was authoritative and final . 
In view , however , of possible eventualities , it was necessary that he should come to a full understanding with the spinster in regard to the state of affairs between Adèle and Reuben , and that he should make disclosure to her of the confessions of Maverick . 
For the second time in his life the Doctor dreaded the necessity of taking his sister into full confidence . 
`` Eliza , '' said he , `` you have sometimes spoken of the possibility of an attachment between Adaly and our poor Reuben . '' 
`` I do n't think , Benjamin , '' said she , `` that Reuben has committed himself in any way . '' 
I think Reuben Johns is a good match for Miss Adèle Maverick , any day . '' 
If Maverick disapproves , and Reuben shows no inclination , our course is both plain and easy . '' 
Reuben , indeed ! '' 
`` And that he should dare to ask us to cloak for him this great scandal ! '' 
`` And is your affection strong enough , Benjamin , to make you forget all social proprieties , and the honorable name of our family , and to wish her stay here as the wife of Reuben ? '' 
Of course Phil had met early with Reuben , and with the fresh spirit of their old school-days . 
Phil had very likely been advised of the experiences which had brought Reuben again to Ashfield , and of the questionable result , -- for even this had become subject of village gossip ; but of such matters there was very coy mention on the part of young Elderkin . 
And as for Reuben , the encounter with such frank , outspoken heartiness and manliness as belonged to his old school-friend was , after his weary mental struggle of the last few months , immensely refreshing . 
`` But you have n't made it blind for Adèle , Reuben , -- so they tell me . '' 
`` There 's the beauty of it , '' said Reuben . 
`` I suppose Reuben is as tender upon her as ever , '' Phil had said at last , in his off-hand way . 
`` He has been very devoted ; but I 'm not sure that it means any thing , Phil , dear . '' 
`` I mean , '' continued Rose , reflectingly , and with some embarrassment of speech , `` I do n't think Adèle speaks of Reuben as if -- as I should -- think '' -- `` As you would , Rose , -- is that it ? '' 
`` Do you think , Phil , '' said Rose , concealing a little fluttering of the heart under very smoothly spoken words , `` do you think that Reuben really loves Adèle ? '' 
It 's enough for me to see her as I do , odd whiles in our parlor , or walking up and down the garden with you , Rose ; if I were to meet her every night and morning , as Reuben must , I should go mad . '' 
But there was Reuben , -- I told him I thought Suke Boody the prettiest girl in Ashfield , but it was n't true , -- and he beat me in reading and writing , and every thing , I think , but fisticuffs . '' 
`` Did he ? '' 
`` I knew he must beat me out and out with Adèle . 
By Jove , I feel as if I could pitch into Reuben , as I used to do at school . 
But then he 's a good fellow , and a good friend of mine , I 'm sure . '' 
`` I 'm sure he is , '' said Rose . 
Reuben and Adèle were to pass the evening at the Elderkins ' . 
Indeed , as she tripped along beside Reuben , it seemed to him that she had never been in a more jocular and vivacious humor . 
A reason for this -LRB- and it is what , possibly , many of our readers may count a very unnatural one -RRB- lay in the letter which she had that day received from her father , in which Maverick , in alluding to a possible affaire du cœurin connection with Reuben , had counseled her , with great earnestness , to hold her affections in reserve , and , above all , to control most rigidly any fancy which she might entertain for the son of their friend the Doctor . 
It amused Adèle ; for Reuben had been so totally undemonstrative in matters of sentiment , -LRB- possibly keeping his deeper feelings in reserve , -RRB- that Adèle had felt over and over a girl 's mischievous propensity to provoke it . 
Not that she was in any sense heartless ; not that she did not esteem him , and feel a keen sense of gratitude ; but his kindest and largest favors were always attended with such demureness and reticence of manner as piqued her womanly vanity . 
Possibly it would have been an easy virtue to cultivate , even though Reuben 's attentions had shown the warmth which the blood of nineteen feminine years craves in a lover ; but as the matter stood , there was something amusing to her in Maverick 's injunction . 
All her art must be employed to disabuse Reuben of any lingering tenderness . 
must be instructed that it would be agreeable to the Johns family -- nay , that their sense of dignity demanded -- that he should reclaim his child at an early day . 
On this last score , it might be necessary , indeed , to practice very adroit management with the Doctor ; but for the rest , she had the amplest confidence in her own activity and discretion . 
She was not the woman to sleep upon her plans , when once they were decided on ; and she had no sooner forecast her programme than she took advantage of the lingering twilight to arrange her toilet for a call upon the Elderkins . 
Of course she led off the Doctor in her trail . 
In a few swift words she unfolded her design . 
Think of the proprieties in the case , Benjamin , -- the proprieties , '' -- which she enforced by a little shake of her forefinger . 
Reuben , who had been loitering about Rose , and who , to do him justice , had seen Phil 's gallant attention to Adèle without one spark of jealousy , was specially interested in this interruption of the festivities . 
The Doctor 's face softened , even while he talked with the charming errant , -- Reuben observed that ; but with Aunt Eliza the case was different . 
Never had he seen such a threatening darkness in her face . 
Reuben , hearing this , felt his heart leap toward Adèle in a way which the spinster 's praises had never provoked . 
But the spinster did not lose sight of her chief aim , to wit , the refusal of all responsibility as attaching to the conduct of Adèle , and a most decided intimation that the rumors which associated her name with Reuben were unfounded , and were likely to prove altogether false . 
Was it Reuben ? 
Reuben and the spinster , as they followed , talked of Rose ; never had Aunt Eliza spoken so warmly of her charms ; but before him was tripping along , in the moonlight , the graceful figure of Adèle , clinging to the old gentleman 's arm , and it is doubtful if his eye did not feast more upon that vision than his ear upon the new praises of the spinster . 
Reuben , seeing it all , and forgetful of the good parson 's plea , gnawed his lip to keep back certain very harsh utterances . 
`` Do you think I did wrong , Reuben ? '' 
`` You have , Reuben ! 
And , Reuben , '' -LRB- more tenderly , -RRB- `` I have promised solemnly to live as you thought a little while ago that you would live . 
And if I were to break my promise , Reuben , I know that you would never renew yours . '' 
He had further advised him that his apprehensions with regard to Reuben were , so far as was known , groundless . 
He further wrote , -- `` Upon consultation with Miss Johns , who is still at the head of our little household , I am constrained to ask that you take as early a time as may be convenient to relieve her of the further care of your daughter . 
As for Reuben , a wanton levity had come over him in those latter days of summer that galled the poor Doctor to the quick , and that strangely perplexed the observant spinster . 
Long ago the Doctor had given over open expostulation ; every such talk seemed to evoke a new and more airy and more adventurous demon in the backslidden Reuben . 
The good man half feared to cast his eye over the books he might be reading . 
Well , Reuben pitied Adèle , -- pitied her subjection to the iron frowns of Miss Eliza ; and almost the only earnest words he spoke in those days were little quiet words of good cheer for the French girl . 
And when Miss Eliza whispered him , as she did , that the poor child 's fortune was gone , and her future insecure , Reuben , with a brave sort of antagonism , made his words of cheer and good-feeling even more frequent than ever . 
But about his passing and kindly attentions to Adèle there was that air of gay mockery which overlaid his whole life , and which neither invited nor admitted of any profound acknowledgment . 
His kindest words -- and some of them , so far as mere language went , were exuberantly tender -- were met always by a half-saddened air of thankfulness and a little restrained pressure of the hand , as if Adèle had said , -- `` Not in earnest yet , Reuben ! 
IT would have been strange , if Adèle had not some day formed her ideal of a lover . 
Three years back , the open , frank , brave front which Phil Elderkin wore had almost reached it ; and when Rose had said , -- as she was wont to say , in her sisterly pride , -- `` He 's a noble fellow , '' there had been a little tingling of the heart in Adèle , which seemed to echo the words . 
Reuben , indeed , had comeliness , and had caught at that time some of the graces of the city ; but Reuben was a tease , and failed in a certain quality of respect for her , -LRB- at least , she fancied it , -RRB- in default of which she met all his favors with a sisterly tenderness , in which there was none of the reserve that tempts passion to declare itself . 
Later , when Reuben so opened the way to her belief , and associated himself so intimately with the culmination of her religious faith , he seemed to her for a time the very impersonation of her girlish fancy , -- so tender , so true , so trustful . 
But Reuben 's desertion from the faith broke this phantasm . 
Had Reuben , in those days of his exaltation , made declaration of his attachment , it would have met with a response that could have admitted of no withdrawal , and her heart would have been leashed to his , whatever outlawry might threaten him . 
Her ideal was still unstained and unbroken ; but it no longer found its type in the backsliding Reuben . 
As for Reuben , after his enthusiasm of the summer had vanished , he felt a prodigious mortification in reflecting that Adèle had been so closely the witness of his short-lived hallucination . 
Seeing this , the Doctor and Miss Eliza had given over any fear of a possibly dangerous interest on the part of Reuben ; and yet keen observers might well have scented a danger in this very studied indifference , if they reflected that its motive lay exclusively in a mortified pride . 
At any rate , it happened , that , with the coming of the autumn months , Reuben , still floating drearily on a sea of religious speculation , and veering more and more into open mockery of the beliefs of all about him , grew weary of his affectations with respect to Adèle . 
He fretted under the kindly manner with which she met his august civilities . 
They did not wound her sensibilities , as he hoped they might have done . 
At the instance of the spinster , the Doctor undertook to lay before Reuben the information conveyed in the letter of Maverick , and that gentleman 's disapproval of any association between the young people looking to marriage . 
`` Your Aunt Eliza has observed , Reuben , that you have lately become more pointed in your attentions to Adaly . '' 
`` We do not know how far these attentions may be serious , Reuben . '' 
`` How long is it , father , '' continued Reuben , `` since Aunt Eliza has commenced her plottings against Adèle ? '' 
`` Not plottings against her , I trust , Reuben . '' 
And thereupon the Doctor had proceeded to lay before Reuben -LRB- who now showed a most lively interest -RRB- a full revelation of the facts announced in Maverick 's letter . 
And Reuben , by the very speech , as well as by the thoughts that had gone before , had worked himself into a passion of devotion . 
Reuben smiled bitterly . 
And with this he strode out , leaving the Doctor in an agony of apprehension . 
`` Well , Benjamin , what does Reuben say ? '' 
`` Given over to his idols , Eliza , -- given over to his idols . 
It would be impossible to fathom all the emotions of Reuben during that interview with his father . 
It would be wrong to say that the view of future marriage had not often held up its brilliant illusions before him ; it would be wrong to say that they had never been associated with the charming vivacity of Adèle , as well as , at other times , with the sweet graces of Rose Elderkin . 
When a man 's religious sensibilities suffer recoil as Reuben 's had done , there grows up a new pride in the natural emotions of generosity ; the humane instincts show exceptional force ; the skeptics become the teachers of an exaggerated philanthropy . 
Did he love her beyond all others ? 
Yesterday he could not have told ; to-day , under the fervor of his audacity and of his pride , his love blazes up in a fiery flame . 
Those ripe red lips shall taste the burning heat of his love and tenderness . 
He will guard , cherish , protect , and the iron aunt may protest , or the world talk as it will . 
His heart is full of the utterance , and his step wild with tumultuous feeling , as he rushes away to find her , -- to win her , -- to bind together their destinies forever ! 
She saw Reuben coming swiftly through the garden ; but his eager step faltered as he came near her . 
He meets her at last with an assumption of his every-day manner , which she can not but see presently is underlaid with a tempest of struggling feeling to which he is a stranger . 
He has taken her hand and placed it in his arm , -- a little coquettish device to which he was wont ; but he keeps the little hand in his with a nervous clasp that is new , and that makes her tremble all the more when his speech grows impassioned , and the easy compliments of his past days of frolicsome humor take a depth of tone which make her heart thrill strangely . 
`` It 's late , Reuben , and I must go in-doors , '' said she , with a quiet that she did not feel . 
And her hand trembled in the eager clasp he fastened upon it . 
Not once did it come into her mind that Reuben was to make a declaration of passion for her . 
`` This is so sudden , so strange , Reuben ! 
If in this connection she had ever thought of Reuben , it was in those days when he seemed so earnest in the faith , and when their feelings were blent by some superhuman agency . 
But at his divergence into the paths of skepticism , it seemed to her simple and intense faith that thenceforth their pilgrimages must be wholly distinct : his -- and she trembled at the thought of it -- through some terrible maze of error , where she could not follow ; and hers -- by God 's grace -- straight to the city whose gates are of pearl . 
When , therefore , she had replied to the passionate address of Reuben , `` You must not talk thus , '' it was with a tear in her eye . 
`` Yes , it grieves me , Reuben . 
Our paths are different now ; '' and she bethought herself of her father 's injunction , which seemed to make her duty still plainer , and forbade her to encourage that parley with her heart which -- with her hand still fast in Reuben 's , and his eyes beaming with a fierce heat upon her -- she was beginning to entertain . 
`` Indeed , indeed , you must not , Reuben ! '' 
said Reuben . 
And she looked yearningly , but vainly , in his face for that illumination which had belonged to his enthusiasm of the summer . 
They walked for a moment in silence , -- he , with a scowl upon his face . 
Seeing this , Adèle said , plaintively , -- `` It seems to me , Reuben , as if this might be only a solemn mockery of yours . '' 
returned he like a flash . 
`` Do you not doubt yourself , Reuben ? 
This with a glance that pierced him through . 
said he , bitterly . 
`` For shame , Reuben ! '' 
At last Adèle spoke again , -- `` There is a sense of coming trouble that oppresses me strangely , -- that tells me I must not listen to you , Reuben . '' 
What do you know , Reuben ? '' 
Reuben blushed scarlet . 
His speech had outrun his discretion ; but seizing her hand , and pressing it more tenderly than ever , he said , -- `` Only this , Adèle : I see that a coolness has grown up toward you in the parsonage ; the old prejudice against French blood may revive again ; besides which , there is , you know , Adèle , that little family cloud '' -- `` Is this the old , kind Reuben , -- my brother , -- who reminds me of a trouble so shadowy I can not fairly measure it ? '' 
`` There isa cloud , Reuben ; thank you for the word , '' said Adèle , recovering herself ; `` and there is , I fear , an even darker cloud upon your faith . 
And there was a spirit in her words now that awed Reuben . 
`` I would not , -- you know I would not , Reuben . '' 
`` Teacher , -- yes , with all my heart , Reuben . '' 
`` Then be mine , '' said he , seizing her hand again , `` from this very hour ! '' 
`` I can not , -- I can not , Reuben ! '' 
said he , calmly . 
Reuben lingered in the orchard until he saw the light flashing through the muslin hangings of her window . 
Could Reuben have seen or conceived all this , he might have acted differently . 
As it was , he entered the Doctor 's study an hour later , with the utmost apparent coolness . 
`` Well , father , '' said he , `` I have offered marriage to your motherless and pious French protégée , and she declines . '' 
But his sympathy was not so much with any possible feeling of disappointment as with the chilling heartlessness and unbelief that seemed to boast themselves in his speech . 
`` It will be rather dull in Ashfield now , I fancy , '' continued Reuben , `` and I shall slip off to New York to-morrow and take a new taste of the world . '' 
And the Doctor -LRB- as if to himself -RRB- said despairingly , ``` Whom He will He hardeneth . ' '' 
`` But , father , '' said Reuben , -LRB- without notice of the old gentleman 's ejaculation , -RRB- `` do n't let Aunt Eliza know of this , -- not a word , or she will be fearfully cruel to the poor child . '' 
Reuben rebelled in heart , in face , and in action against the tediously long prayer of the parson , though the old gentleman 's spirit was writhing painfully in his pleadings . 
Later in the day Reuben went to make his adieus to the Elderkins . 
Reuben made his way up to Phil 's chamber after the unceremonious manner to which he has been used in that hospitable home , while a snatch of a little songlet from Rose came floating after him along the stairs . 
Other times , too , from this eyrie of his , he had seen Adèle tripping past , with Reuben beside her , and had wondered what their chat might be , while he had feasted his eyes upon her fair figure . 
Reuben was always a welcome visitor , and was presently in full flow of talk , and puffing nervously at one of Phil 's choice Havanas -LRB- which in that day were true to their titles -RRB- . 
`` I 'm off , Phil , '' said Reuben at last , breaking in upon his host 's ecstasy over a ballad he had been reciting , with what he counted the true Castilian magniloquence . 
Yes , '' said Reuben , `` but they are all so good ! 
-- and he puffed at his cigar with a nervous violence . 
It was not often that such an approach to profanity sullied the lips of Reuben , and Phil noted it with surprise . 
says Reuben , -- somewhat calm again . 
And at the moment Adèle tripped by , with the old Doctor walking gravely at her side . 
said Reuben , with a composure that was feigned , `` she 's too much of a Puritan for me , Phil : or rather , I 'm too little of a Puritan for her . '' 
And Reuben , looking back at him as keenly , said , after a silence of a few moments , -- `` I do n't think you 'll ever marry her either , Phil . '' 
Reuben replied only by a faint sardonic smile . 
`` Certainly , '' said Reuben . 
`` It means , Phil , '' -LRB- and here Reuben reflected a moment or two , puffing with savage energy , -RRB- `` it means what I ca n't wholly explain to you . 
`` The authority of one who has loved her , '' said Reuben , with a fierce , quick tone , and dashing his half-burnt cigar from the window ; `` the authority of one who , if he had chosen to perjure himself and profess a faith which he could not entertain , and wear sanctimonious airs , might have won her heart . '' 
Reuben paced up and down the chamber , then came and took the hand of his old friend : -- `` Phil , you 're a noble - hearted fellow . 
Again there was a little burst of song from below , and it lingered upon the ear of Reuben long after he had left the Elderkin homestead . 
The next day he was gone , -- to try his new taste of the world . 
IT was in no way possible for the simple-hearted Doctor to conceal from the astute spinster the particular circumstances which had hurried Reuben 's departure , and the knowledge of them made her humiliation complete . 
During all the latter months of Reuben 's stay she had not scrupled to drop occasional praises of him in the ear of Adèle , as in the old times . 
Think , then , of the situation of poor Adèle under the attentions of such a woman , after she has ferreted out from the Doctor the truth with respect to Reuben ! 
It was clear to the towns-people that all was at an end between Adèle and Reuben , -- clear that she had fallen away from the old favor in which she once stood at the parsonage ; and Miss Eliza , by her adroit hints , and without any palpable violation of truth , found means of associating these results with certain suspicious circumstances which had come to light respecting the poor girl 's character , -- circumstances for which she herself -LRB- Miss Eliza was kind enough to say -RRB- was not altogether accountable , perhaps , but yet sufficient to warrant a little reserve of confidence , and of courseputting an end to any thought of intimate alliance with `` the Johns family . '' 
She even whispered in her most insidious manner into the ear of old Mistress Tew , -- who , being somewhat deaf , is the most inveterate village gossip , -- that `` it was hard for the poor thing , when Reuben left so suddenly . '' 
`` I have had an éclaircissement '' -LRB- she says -RRB- `` with friend Reuben . 
His declaration of attachment -LRB- I think I may tell youthis , dear papa -RRB- was so wholly unexpected that I could not count it real . 
He seemed actuated by some sudden controlling sympathy -LRB- as he often is -RRB- that I could not explain ; and had it been otherwise , your injunction , dear papa , and the fact that he has become a bitter skeptic in regard to our most holy religion , would have made me pause . 
`` And did you see much of Reuben ? '' 
`` Not much ; '' and Phil -LRB- glancing that way -RRB- sees that Adèle is studying her crimsons ; `` but he tells me he is doing splendidly in some business venture to the Mediterranean with Brindlock ; he could hardly talk of any thing else . 
It 's odd to find him so wrapped up in money-making . '' 
`` I hope he 'll not be wrapped up in any thing worse , '' said Mrs. Elderkin , with a sigh . 
burst in the old Squire ; `` Reuben 'll come out all right yet . '' 
And the two girls , -- yonder , the other side of the hearth , -- Adèle and Rose , have given over their little earnest comparison of views about the colors , and sit stitching , and stitching , and thinking -- and thinking -- PHIL had at no time given over his thought of Adèle , and of the possibility of some day winning her for himself , though he had been somewhat staggered by the interview already described with Reuben . 
It is doubtful , even , if the quiet permissionwhich this latter had granted -LRB- or , with an affectation of arrogance , had seemed to grant -RRB- had not itself made him pause . 
So when Phil recalled Reuben 's expression on that memorable afternoon in his chamber , -- `` You maymarry her , Phil , '' -- it operated powerfully to dispossess him of all intention and all earnestness of pursuit . 
The little doubt and mystery which Reuben had thrown , in the same interview , upon the family relations of Adèle , did not weigh a straw in the comparison . 
He had plunged into his business pursuits with a new zeal , and easily put away all present thought of matrimony , by virtue of that simple `` may '' of Reuben 's . 
But now when , on coming back , he found her in his own home , -- so tenderly cared for by mother and by sister , -- so coy and reticent in his presence , the old fever burned again . 
It was not now a simple watching of her figure upon the street that told upon him ; but her constant presence ; -- the rustle of her dress up and down the stairs ; her fresh , fair face every day at table ; the tapping of her light feet along the hall ; the little musical bursts of laughter -LRB- not Rose 's , -- oh , no ! -RRB- 
That strong , religious element in her , -- abating no jot in its fervor , -- which had found a shock in the case of Reuben , met none with Philip . 
He had no great wastes of doubt to perplex him , like Reuben , simply because his intelligence was of a more submissive order , and never tested its faiths or beliefs by that delicately sensitive mental apparel with which Reuben was clothed all over , and which suggested a doubt or a hindrance where Phil would have recognized none ; -- the best stuff in him , after all , of which a hale , hearty , contented man can be made , -- the stuff that takes on age with dignity , that wastes no power , that conserves every element of manliness to fourscore . 
Nor will it seem strange , if , by contrast , it made the excitable Reuben seem more dismally afloat and vagrant . 
Yet how could she forget the passionate pressure of his hand , the appealing depth of that gray eye of the parson 's son , and the burning words of his that stuck in her memory like thorns ? 
The new arrangement all comes to the ear of Reuben , who writes back in a very brusk way to the Doctor : `` Why on earth , father , do n't you cut all connection with the parish ? 
And the Doctor , in his reply , says : `` My rest , Reuben , is God 's work . 
I am deeply grateful to you , and only wish that your generosity were hallowed by a deeper trust in His providence and mercy . 
O Reuben ! 
Reuben ! 
Correspondence between the father and son is not infrequent in these days ; for , since Reuben has slipped away from home control utterly , -- being now well past one and twenty , -- the Doctor has forborne that magisterial tone which , in his old-fashioned way , it was his wont to employ , while yet the son was subject to his legal authority . 
Under these conditions , Reuben is won into more communicativeness , -- even upon those religious topics which are always prominent in the Doctor 's letters ; indeed , it would seem that the son rather enjoyed a little logical fence with the old gentleman , and a passing lunge , now and then , at his severities ; still weltering in his unbelief , but wearing it more lightly -LRB- as the father saw with pain -RRB- by reason of the great crowd of sympathizers at his back . 
REUBEN , meantime , is leading a dashing life in the city . 
certain pertinent inquiries in regard to the pretty Miss Maverick , under which Reuben had shown considerable disposition to flinch ; although he vainly fancied that he stood the interrogation with a high hand . 
Reuben , with his present most promising establishment in business , and with a face and air that insured him a cordial welcome in that circle of wealthy acquaintances which Mrs. Brindlock especially cultivated , was counted a bon parti , independent of his position as presumptive heir to a large share of the Brindlock estate . 
Once or twice since his leave of Ashfield he has astonished the good people there by a dashing visit . 
Perhaps he has enjoyed -LRB- such things are sometimes enjoyed -RRB- setting forth before the quiet parishioners of his father his new consequence as a man of the world and of large moneyed prospects . 
It is even possible that he may have entertained agreeably the fancy of dazing the eyes of both Rose and Adèle with the glitter of his city distinctions . 
Adèle , indeed , was always graciously kind , and , seeing his confirmed godlessness , tortured herself secretly with the thought that , but for her rebuff , he might have made a better fight against the bedevilments of the world , and lived a truer and purer life . 
As for Rose , if there crept into her little prayers a touch of sentiment as she pleaded for the backslidden son of the minister , her prayers were none the worse for it . 
Such trace of sentimental color -- like the blush upon her fair cheek -- gave a completed beauty to her appeals . 
Reuben saw that Phil was terribly in earnest in his love , and he fancied , with some twinges , that he saw indications on the part of Adèle of its being not wholly unacceptable . 
Rose , too , seemed not disinclined to receive the assiduous attentions of the young minister , who had become a frequent visitor in the Elderkin household , and who preached with an unction and an earnestness that touched her heart , and that made her sigh despondingly over the outcast son of the old pastor . 
Watching these things with a look studiedly careless and indifferent , Reuben felt himself cut off more than ever from such charms or virtues as might possibly have belonged to continued association with the companions of his boyhood , and nerved himself for a new and firmer grip upon those pleasures of the outer world which had not yet proved an illusion . 
There were moments -- mostly drifting over him in silent night-hours , within his old chamber at the parsonage -- when it seemed to him that he had made a losing game of it . 
The sparkling eyes of Adèle , suffused with tears , -- as in that memorable interview of the garden , -- beam upon him , promising , as then , other guidance ; they gain new brilliance , and wear stronger entreaty , as they shine lovingly upon him from the distance -- growing greater and greater -- which now lies between them . 
Her beauty , her grace , her tenderness , now that they are utterly beyond reach , are tenfold enticing ; and in that other sphere to which , in his night reverie , they seem translated , the joyous face of Rose , like that of an attendant angel , looks down regretfully , full of a capacity for love to which he must be a stranger . 
The father 's studied silence ; her alienation from any home of her own ; the mysterious hints of the Doctor ; and the strange communication of Reuben , -- all come up in stately array and confound her with the bitter truth . 
But in the whirl of his feeling he remembered that interview with Reuben , and his boast that Phil could not affront the conventionalities of the world . 
Reuben then had known the whole , and had been disinterestedly generous . 
Should he be any less so ? 
`` Well , sir , I think she always had a tenderness for Reuben ; I think she loves him now in her heart . '' 
Adèle sees clearly now the full burden of Reuben 's proposal to cherish and guard her against whatever indignities might threaten ; she sees more clearly than ever the rich , impulsive generosity of his nature reflected , and it disturbs her grievously to think that she had met it only with reproach . 
The thought of the mad , wild , godless career upon which he may have entered , and of which the village gossips are full , is hardly more afflictive to her than her recollection of that frank , self-sacrificing generosity , so ignobly requited . 
She longs in her heart to clear the debt , -- to tell him what grateful sense she has of his intended kindness . 
She writes : -- `` Reuben , I know now the full weight of the favor of what you promised to bestow upon me when I so blindly reproached you with intrusion upon my private griefs . 
Forgive me , Reuben ! 
This knowledge , dear Reuben , which separates us so surely and so widely , relieves me of the embarrassment which I might otherwise have felt in telling you of my lasting gratitude , and -LRB- if as a sister I may say it -RRB- my love . 
If your kind heart could so overflow with pity then , you will surely pity me the more now ; yet not too much , Reuben , for my pride as a woman is as strong as ever . 
`` And this reminds me , Reuben , that I have told you frankly how the cloud which overhung me has opened with a terrible surety . 
Ah , Reuben , when I recall those days in which long ago your faith in something better beyond this world than lies in it seemed to be so much stronger and firmer than mine , and when your trust was so confident as to make mine stronger , it seems like a strange dream to me , -- all the more when now you , who should reason more justly than I , believe in ` nothing , ' -LRB- was not that your last word ? -RRB- 
-- and yet , dear Reuben , I cling , -- I cling , Do you remember the old hymn I sung in those days : -- ` Ingemisco tanquam reus , Culpa rubet vultus meus ; Supplicanti parce , Deus . ' 
Much more she writes in this vein , but returns ever and again to that noble generosity of his , -- her delicacy struggling throughout with her tender gratitude , -- yet she fails not to show a deep , earnest undercurrent of affection , which surely might develop under sympathy into a very fever of love . 
Will it not touch the heart of Reuben ? 
Will it not divert him from the trail where he wanders blindly ? 
If we have read his character rightly , surely this letter , in which a delicate sensibility hardly veils a great passionate wealth of feeling , will stir him to a new and more hopeful venture . 
For a long time Adèle has not written to Reuben , and it occurs to her , as she strolls away toward the village post , that to mail it herself may possibly provoke new town gossip . 
In this perplexity she presently encounters her boy friend , Arthur , who for a handful of pennies , and under injunction of secrecy , cheerfully undertakes the duty . 
`` I know now the secret of your caution in respect to Reuben ; you have been unwilling that your childshould bring any possible shame to the household of a friend ! 
Yet I have never told you -- what I have since learned -- of the unselfish devotion of Reuben , which declared itself when he knew all , -- all . 
Would I not be almost tempted to thank him with -- myself ? 
Yet , trust me , if I have written him with an almost unmaidenly warmth , I have called to his mind the great gulf that mustlie between us . 
Nor can it be counted strange if there , in the study so familiar to her childhood , she should recall the days when she had frolicked down the orchard , when Reuben had gathered flowers for her , when life seemed enchanting . 
Ten days , a fortnight , and a month pass , and there is no acknowledgment from Reuben of her grateful letter . 
He does not count it worth his while , apparently , to break his long silence ; or , possibly , he is too much engrossed with livelier interests to give a thought to this episode of his old life in Ashfield . 
At this moment there is a sharp tap at the door , and Miss Eliza steps in , the bearer of a letter from Reuben . 
A LETTER from Reuben indeed has come ; but not for Miss Adèle . 
`` What does Reuben say , Benjamin ? '' 
`` His ` idols , ' again , Eliza ; ' t is always the ` flesh-pots of Egypt . ' '' 
`` It will be of service to Reuben , I think , Benjamin , '' said Aunt Eliza ; `` I quite approve , '' -- and slipped away noiselessly . 
As regarded Reuben , there could be no doubt . 
REUBEN went with a light heart upon his voyage . 
-LRB- Had the letter of Adèle ever reached him , it might have been far different . -RRB- 
At Naples Reuben hears from the captain of the Meteor -- in which good ship he has made his voyage , and counts upon making his return -- that the vessel can take up half her cargo at a better freight by touching at Marseilles . 
Whereupon Reuben orders him to go thither , promising to join him at that port in a fortnight . 
Terracina brought back to him the story of Mr. Alderman Popkins and the Principessa , and the bandits ; after this came the heights of Albano and Soracte , and there , at last , the Tiber , the pyramid tomb , the great church dome , the stone pines of the Janiculan hill , -- Rome itself . 
Reuben was not strong or curious in his classics ; the galleries and the churches took a deeper hold upon him than the Forum and the ruins . 
He wandered for hours together under the arches of St. Peter 's . 
Such queer humors and droll comparisons flash into the mind of Reuben , even under all his sense of awe , -- a swift , disorderly mingling of the themes and offices which kindled his first sense of religious awe under a home atmosphere with the wondrous forms and splendor which kindle a new awe now . 
A couple of friars shuffle past him , and go to their prayers at some near altar ; he does not even smile at their shaven pates and their dowdy , coarse gowns of serge . 
Low music from some far-away chapel comes floating under the paneled vaultings , and loses itself under the great dome , with a sound so gentle , so full of entreaty , that it seems to him the dove on the high altar might have made it with a cooing and a flutter of her white wings . 
A mother and two daughters , in black , glide past him , and drop upon their knees before some saintly shrine , and murmur their thanksgivings , or their entreaty . 
And he , with no aim of worship , yet somehow shocked out of his unbelief by the very material influences around him . 
Reuben 's old wranglings and struggles with doubt had ended -- where so many are apt to end , when the world is sunny and success weaves its silken meshes for the disport of self -- in a quiet disbelief that angered him no longer , because he had given over all fight with it . 
And strange as it may seem , and perplexing as it was to the Doctor -LRB- when he received Reuben 's story of it -RRB- , he came out from his first visit to the great Romish temple with his religious nature more deeply stirred than it had been for years . 
Reuben assents cheerfully to this accession of companionship ; and , running off for a sight of the ruins at Nismes and Arles , returns only in time to catch the ship upon the day of its departure . 
As they pass out of harbor , the lady passenger , in deep black , -LRB- the face seems half familiar to him , -RRB- watches wistfully the receding shores , and , as they run abreast the chapel of Nôtre Dame de la Garde , she devoutly crosses herself and tells her beads . 
Reuben is to make the voyage with the mother of Adèle . 
Both bound to the same quiet township of New England ; he , to reach Ashfield once more , there to undergo swiftly a new experience , -- an experience that can come to no man but once ; she , to be clasped in the arms of Adèle , -- a cold embrace and the last ! 
REUBEN had heard latterly very little of domestic affairs at Ashfield . 
He knew scarce more of the family relations of Adèle than was covered by that confidential announcement of the parson 's which had so set on fire his generous zeal . 
But Reuben was not in a mood to be caught by any chaff administered by his most respectable aunt . 
If , indeed , he had known all , -- if that hearty burst of Adèle 's gratitude had come to him , -- if he could once have met her with the old freedom of manner , -- ah ! 
then -- then -- But no ; he thinks of her now as one under social blight , which he would have lifted or borne with her had not her religious squeamishness forbidden . 
He tries to forget what was most charming in her , and has succeeded passably well . 
`` I suppose she is still modeling her heroes on the Catechism , '' he thought , `` and Phil will very likely pass muster . '' 
The name of Madame Maverick as attaching to their fellow-passenger -- which came to his ear for the first time on the second day out from port -- considerably startled him . 
Madame Maverick is , he learns , on her way to join her husband and child in America . 
But he is by no means disposed to entertain a very exalted respect for any claimant of such name and title . 
He finds , indeed , the prejudices of his education -LRB- so he calls them -RRB- asserting themselves with a fiery heat ; and most of all he is astounded by the artfully arranged religious drapery with which this poor woman -- as it appears to him -- seeks to cover her shortcomings . 
He had brought away from the atmosphere of the old cathedrals a certain quickened religious sentiment , by the aid of which he had grown into a respect , not only for the Romish faith , but for Christian faith of whatever degree . 
And now he encountered what seemed to him its gross prostitution . 
Meantime , the good ship Meteorwas skirting the shores of Spain , and had made a good hundred leagues of her voyage before Reuben had ventured to make himself known as the old schoolmate and friend of the child whom Madame Maverick was on her way to greet after so many years of separation . 
The truth was , that Reuben , his first disgust being overcome , could not shake off the influence of something attractive and winning in the manner of Madame Maverick . 
In her step and in her lithe figure he saw the step and figure of Adèle . 
All her orisons and aves , which she failed not to murmur each morning and evening , were reminders of the earnest faith of her poor child . 
It is impossible to treat her with disrespect . 
Nay , it is impossible , -- as Reuben begins to associate more intimately the figure and the voice of this quiet lady with his memories of another and a younger one , -- quite impossible , that he should not feel his whole chivalrous nature stirred in him , and become prodigal of attentions . 
If there were hypocrisy , it somehow cheated him into reverence . 
The lady is , of course , astounded at Reuben 's disclosure to her . 
They love the vanities of the world then , '' -- and her eye flashed over the well-appointed dress of Reuben , who felt half an inclination to hide , if it had been possible , the cluster of gairish charms which hung at his watch-chain . 
`` She is very charming , Madame , '' said Reuben , in an easy , dégagémanner , which , to tell truth , he put on to cover a little embarrassing revival of his old sentiment . 
Madame Maverick looked at him keenly . 
Whereupon Reuben ran on , -- jauntily , at first , as if it had been a ballet-girl of San Carlo whose picture he was making out ; but his old hearty warmth declared itself by degrees ; and his admiration and his tenderness gave such warm color to his language as it might have shown if her little gloved hand had been shivering even then in his own passionate clasp . 
Reuben looked upon her in wonder , amazed at the depth of her emotion . 
said she , recovering herself , and reading , as it were , his doubts . 
`` I think , '' said Reuben , `` that your daughter would have charity for any religious faith which was earnest . '' 
`` This is real , '' thought Reuben . 
`` Tell me , Monsieur , '' continued she , with a heat of language that excited his admiration , `` what is it you believe there ? 
Whereupon , Reuben undertook to lay down the grounds of distrust in which he had been educated ; not , surely , with the fervor or the logical sequence which the old Doctor would have given to the same , but yet inveighing in good set terms against the vain ceremonials , the idolatries , the mummeries , the confessional , the empty absolution ; and summing up all with the formula -LRB- may be he had heard the Doctor use the same language -RRB- that the piety of the Romanist was not so much a deep religious conviction of the truth , as a sentiment . 
But not so much by her talk as by the everyday sight of her serene , unfaltering devotion is Reuben won into a deep respect for her faith . 
Those are rare days and rare nights for him , as the good ship Meteorslips down past the shores of Spain to the Straits , -- days all sunny , nights moonlit . 
To the right , -- not discernible , but he knows they are there , -- the swelling hills of Catalonia and of Andalusia , the marvelous Moorish ruins , the murmurs of the Guadalquivir ; to the left , a broad sweep of burnished sea , on which , late into the night , the moon pours a stream of molten silver , that comes rocking and widening toward him , and vanishes in the shadow of the ship . 
The cruise has been a splendid venture for him , -- twenty-five thousand at the least . 
And as he paces the decks , -- in the view only of the silent man at the wheel and of the silent stars , -- he forecasts the palaces he will build . 
-- it is an ejaculatory prayer of Reuben 's , rather than an oath . 
The palaces he had built vanish . 
The stars blink upon him kindly , and from their wondrous depths challenge his thought . 
He too afloat , -- afloat . 
Yearning still for a belief on which he may repose . 
And he bethinks himself , -- does it lie somewhere under the harsh and dogmatic utterances of the Ashfield pulpit ? 
At the thought , he recalls the weary iteration of cumbersome formulas , that passed through his brain like leaden plummets , and the swift lashings of rebuke , if he but reached over for a single worldly floweret , blooming beside the narrow path ; and yet , -- and yet , from the leaden atmosphere of that past , saintly faces beam upon him , -- a mother 's , Adèle 's , -- nay , the kindly fixed gray eyes of the old Doctor glow upon him with a fire that must have been kindled with truth . 
Meantime a singular and almost tender intimacy grew up between Reuben and the lady voyager . 
Madame Maverick has been taught , in these latter years , a large amount of self-control ; so she can listen with a grave , nay , even a kindly face , to Reuben 's sweeping declarations . 
And if , at a hint from her , -- which he shrewdly counts Jesuitical , -- his thought is turned in the direction of his religious experiences , he has his axioms , his common-sense formulas , his irreproachable coolness , and , at times , a noisy show of distrust , under which it is easy to see an eager groping after the ends of that great tangled skein of thought within , which is a weariness . 
`` I should like that of all things , '' says Reuben , with a touch of merriment . 
-LRB- He says this latter to himself , however , as he sees the nervous fingers of the poor lady plying her rosary , and her lips murmuring some catch of a prayer . -RRB- 
Yet he can not but respect her devotion profoundly , wondering how it can have grown up under the heathenisms of her life ; wondering perhaps , too , how his own heathenism could have grown up under the roof of a parsonage . 
It will be an odd encounter , he thinks , for this woman , with the people of Ashfield , with the Doctor , with Adèle . 
`` I hope we shall be in the bay by morning , Captain , '' said Reuben , who stood smoking leisurely near the wheel . 
Reuben , not a little startled by the new aspect of affairs , still kept his place upon the quarter-deck . 
He saw objects flitting across the waist of the ship , and heard distinctly the coils flung down with a clang upon the wet decks . 
Through all this , Reuben has continued smoking upon the quarter-deck ; a landsman under a light wind , and with a light sea , hardly estimates at their true worth such intimations as had been given of the near breaking of the surf , and of the shoaling water . 
Even the touch upon bottom , of which the grating evidence had come home to his own perceptions , brought up more the fate of his business venture than any sense of personal peril . 
We can surely warp her off in the morning , he thought ; or , if the worst came , insurance was full , and it would be easy boating to the shore . 
`` It 's lucky there 's no wind , '' said he to Yardley . 
Take a good strong puff of your cigar , -- here , upon the larboard rail , sir , '' and he took the lantern from the companion-way that he might see the drift of the smoke . 
`` Mr. Johns , '' said he , approaching Reuben , `` we are on a lee shore ; it should be Long Island beach by the soundings ; with calm weather , and a kedge , we might work her off with the lift of the tide . 
`` Oh , well , we can anchor , '' says Reuben . 
asked Reuben , a little nervously . 
The word startled Reuben . 
His philosophy had always contemplated death at a distance , toward which easy and gradual approaches might be made : but here it was , now , at a cable 's length ! 
From time to time , as the crashing spars or the leaden thump upon the sands have startled those below , Madame Maverick and her maid have made their appearance , in a wild flutter of anxiety , asking eager questions ; -LRB- Reuben alone can understand them or answer them ;-RRB- but as the southeaster grows , as it does , into a fury of wind , and the poor hulk reels vainly , and is overlaid with a torrent of biting salt spray , Madame Maverick becomes calm . 
Reuben regarded her calm faith with a hungry eagerness . 
But underneath his calmness there was an unrest , hungering for repose , -- the repose of a fixed belief . 
If even then the breaking waves had whelmed him in their mad career , he would have made no wailing outcry , but would have clutched -- how eagerly ! 
-- at the merest shred of that faith which , in other days and times , he had seen illuminate the calm face of the father . 
One boat only remains , and it is launched with more careful handling ; three cling by the wreck ; the rest -- save only Madame Maverick and Reuben -- are within her , as she tosses still in the lee of the vessel . 
And Reuben , with some strange , generous impulse , seizes upon Madame Maverick , and , before she can rebel or resist , has dropped her over the rail . 
As the sharp crack breaks on the air , -- a miniature sound in that howl of the storm , -- the red flash of the gun gives Reuben , as the boat lurches toward the wreck again , a last glance of Madame Maverick , -- her hands clasped , her eyes lifted , and calm as ever . 
And from that momentary glance of the serene countenance , and that flashing associated memory of Adèle , a subtile , mystic influence is born in him , by which he seems suddenly transfused with the same trustful serenity which just now he gazed upon with wonder . 
If indeed the poor lady is already lost , -- he thinks it for a moment , -- her spirit has fanned and cheered him as it passed . 
Once more , as if some mysterious hand had brought them to his reach , he grapples with those lost lines of hope and trust which in that youthful year of his exuberant emotional experience he had held and lost , -- once more , now , in hand , -- once more he is elated with that wonderful sense of a religious poise , that , it would seem , no doubts or terrors could overbalance . 
Unconsciously kneeling on the wet deck , he is rapt into a kind of ecstatic indifference to winds , to waves , to danger , to death . 
Reuben chances to espy an old-fashioned round life-buoy lashed to the taffrail , and , cutting it loose , makes himself fast to it . 
He overhears the boatswain say , yonder by the forecastle , `` These thumpings will break her in two in an hour . 
A new and fearful lift of the sea shatters the wreck , the fore part of the ship still holding fast to the sands ; but all abaft the mainmast lifts , surges , reels , topples over ; with the wreck , and in the angry swirl and torment of waters , Reuben goes down . 
By half-past three he was upon the spot ; a little remaining fragment only of the Meteorhanging to the sands , and a great débrisof bales , spars , shattered timbers , bodies , drifted along the shore , -- Reuben 's among them . 
But he is not dead ; at least so say the wreckers , who throng upon the beach ; the life-buoy is still fast to him , though he is fearfully shattered and bruised . 
He is borne away under the orders of Brindlock to some near house , and presently revives enough to ask that he may be carried -- `` home . '' 
As , in the opening of this story , his old grandfather , the Major , was borne away from the scene of his first battle by easy stages homeward , so now the grandson , far feebler and after more terrible encounter with death , is carried by `` easy stages '' to his home in Ashfield . 
Reuben hovering between life and death ; and the old Doctor , catching chance rest upon the little cot they have placed for him in the study , looks yearningly by the dim light of the sick-lamp upon that dove which his lost Rachel had hung upon his wall above the sword of his father . 
He fancies that the face of Reuben , pinched with suffering , resembles more than ever the mother . 
And it is pitiful to see his blundering , eager efforts to do something , as he totters round the sick-chamber , where Reuben , with very much of youthful vigor left in him , makes fight against the arch-enemy who one day conquers us all . 
For many days after his arrival there is no consciousness , -- only wild words -LRB- at times words that sound to the ears of the good Doctor strangely wicked , and that make him groan in spirit -RRB- , -- tender words , too , of dalliance , and eager , loving glances , -- murmurs of boyish things , of sunny , school-day noonings , -- hearing which , the Doctor thinks that , if this light must go out , it had better have gone out in those days of comparative innocence . 
Phil is the first to meet this exceptional funeral company , and is the first to tell Adèle how Reuben lies stricken almost to death at the parsonage . 
She thanks him : she thanks him again for the tender care which he shows in all relating to the approaching burial . 
When an enemy even comes forward to help us bury the child we loved or the parent we mourn , our hearts warm toward him as they never warmed before ; but when a friend assumes these offices of tenderness , and takes away the harshest edge of grief by assuming the harshest duties of grief , our hearts shower upon him their tenderest sympathies . 
REUBEN is still floating between death and life . 
A faint smile -- as of one who sees things others do not see -- broke over the face of Reuben . 
There was a trustfulness in his manner that delighted the Doctor . 
Of course the letter of Adèle , which had been so long upon its way , Miss Eliza had handed to Reuben after such time as her caution suggested , and she had explained to him its long delay . 
Reading is no easy matter for him ; but he races through those delicately penned lines with quite a new strength . 
The spinster sees the color come and go upon his wan cheek , and with what a trembling eagerness he folds the letter at the end , and , making a painful effort , tries to thrust it under his pillow . 
The good woman has to aid him in this . 
He thanks her , but says nothing more . 
His fingers are toying nervously at a bit of torn fringe upon the coverlet . 
It seems a relief to him to make the rent wider and wider . 
A little glimpse of the world has come back to him , which disturbs the repose with which but now he would have quitted it forever . 
Reuben utters no open dissent ; but through and back of all he sees the tender eyes of Adèle , which , for the moment , outshine the promises , or at the least illuminate them with a new meaning . 
`` I must see Adèle , '' he says to the Doctor ; and the message is carried , -- she herself presently bringing answer , with a rich glow upon her cheek . 
`` Reuben has sent for me , '' -- she murmurs it to herself with pride and joy . 
She is in full black now ; but never had she looked more radiantly beautiful than when she stepped to the side of the sick-bed , and took the hand of Reuben with an eager clasp -- that was met , and met again . 
Reuben fumbles under his pillow nervously for that cherished bit of paper , -LRB- Adèle knows already its history , -RRB- and when he has found it and shown it -LRB- his thin fingers crumpling it nervously -RRB- he says , `` Thank you for this , Adèle ! '' 
She answers only by clasping his hand with a sudden mad pressure of content , while the blood mounted into either cheek with a rosy exuberance that magnified her beauty tenfold . 
He saw it , -- he felt it all ; and through her beaming eyes , so full of tenderness and love , saw the world to which he had bidden adieu shining before him more beguilingly than ever . 
Yesterday it was a dim and weary world that he could leave without a pang ; to-day it is a brilliant world , where hopes , promises , joys pile in splendid proportions . 
He tells her this . 
`` You will , you will , Reuben ! '' 
said she , dropping upon her knees beside him , and with a smile of ecstasy he gathered that fair head to his bosom . 
Of these things , however , Reuben goes on presently to speak : of his first sight of the mother of Adèle , and of her devotional attitude as they floated down past the little chapel of Nôtre Dame to enter upon the fateful voyage ; he recounts their talks upon the tranquil moon-lit nights of ocean ; he tells of the mother 's eager listening to his description of her child . 
`` I did not tell her the half , Adèle ; yet she loved me for what I told her . '' 
At last he comes to those dismal scenes of the wreck , relating all with a strange vividness ; living over again , as it were , that fearful episode , till his brain whirled , his self-possession was lost , and he broke out into a torrent of delirious raving . 
He sleeps brokenly that night , and the next day is feebler than ever . 
The next day Reuben is himself once more , but feeble , to a degree that startles the household . 
It is a charming morning of later September ; the window is wide open , and the sick one looks out over a stretch of orchard -LRB- he knew its every tree -RRB- , and upon wooded hills beyond -LRB- he knew every coppice and thicket -RRB- , and upon a background of sky over which a few dappled white clouds floated at rest . 
said Reuben . 
`` All things that He has made are beautiful , '' said the Doctor ; and thereupon he seeks to explore his way into the secrets of Reuben 's religious experience , -- employing , as he was wont to do , all the Westminster formulas by which his own belief stood fast . 
`` I would to God , Reuben , that I could make my language always clear . '' 
`` But some are clear , -- some are clear , Reuben ! '' 
`` Before , all seems clear ; but behind '' -- `` And yet , Reuben , '' -LRB- the Doctor can not forbear the discussion , -RRB- `` there is the cross , -- Election , Adoption , Sanctification '' -- `` Stop , father ; the cross , indeed , with a blaze of glory , I see ; but the teachers of this or that special form of doctrine I see only catching radiations of the light . 
`` And what do you see , Reuben , my boy ? '' 
Reuben turns to Adèle . 
A rosy tint ran over her face as she stooped and kissed him with a freedom a mother might have shown , -- leaving one hand toying caressingly with his hair . 
`` Reuben , darling , '' says Adèle , `` come back to us ! '' 
he repeated with a strange , eager , satisfied smile , -- so sweet a sound it was . 
Yes , he is living still , -- making his way wearily each morning along the street with his cane . 
Going oftenest , perhaps , to the home of Adèle , who is now a matron , -- a tender , and most womanly and joyful matron , -- and with her little boy -- Reuben Elderkin by name -- he wanders often to the graves where sleep his best beloved , -- Rachel , so early lost , -- the son , in respect to whom he feels at last a `` reasonable assurance '' that the youth has entered upon a glorious inheritance in those courts where one day he will join him , and the sainted Rachel too , and clasp again in his arms -LRB- if it be God 's will -RRB- the babe that was his but for an hour on earth . 
