Fielding has described one class as feras consumere nati ; but the love of field-sports indicates a certain activity of mind , which had forsaken Mr Bertram , if ever he possessed it . 
A good-humoured listlessness of countenance formed the only remarkable expression of his features , although they were rather handsome than otherwise . 
In fact , his physiognomy indicated the inanity of character which pervaded his life . 
I will give the reader some insight into his state and conversation , before he has finished a long lecture to Mannering , upon the propriety and comfort of wrapping his stirrup-irons round with a wisp of straw when he had occasion to ride in a chill evening . 
His list of forefathers ascended so high , that they were lost in the barbarous ages of Galwegian independence ; so that his genealogical tree , besides the Christian and crusading names of Godfreys , and Gilberts , and Dennises , and Rolands , without end , bore heathen fruit of yet darker ages , -- Arths , and Knarths , and Donagilds , and Hanlons . 
In the midst of his schemes death claimed his tribute , and the scanty remains of a large property descended upon Godfrey Bertram , the present possessor , his only son . 
Without a single spark of energy to meet or repel these misfortunes , Godfrey put his faith in the activity of another . 
He kept neither hunters , nor hounds , nor any other southern preliminaries to ruin ; but , as has been observed of his countrymen , he kept a man of business , who answered the purpose equally well . 
-- They live , Mr Mannering , by the shore-side , at Annan , and a mair decent , orderly couple , with six as fine bairns as ye would wish to see plash in a salt-water dub ; and little curlie Godfrey -- that 's the eldest , the come o ' will , as I may say -- he 's on board an excise yacht -- I hae a cousin at the board of excise -- that 's Commissioner Bertram ; he got his commissionership in the great contest for the county , that ye must have heard of , for it was appealed to the House of Commons -- now I should have voted there for the Laird of Balruddery ; but ye see my father was a jacobite , and out with Kenmore , so he never took the oaths ; and I ken not weel how it was , but all that I could do and say , they keepit me off the roll , though my agent , that had a vote upon my estate , ranked as a good vote for auld Sir Thomas Kittlecourt . 
The Dominie groaned deeply , uncrossed his legs , drew in the huge splay foot which his former posture had extended , placed it perpendicularly , and stretched the other limb over it instead , puffing out between whiles huge volumes of tobacco smoke . 
One of Sampson 's great recommendations to the favour of Mr Bertram was , that he never detected the most gross attempt at imposition , so that the Laird , whose humble efforts at jocularity were chiefly confined to what were then called bites and bams , since denominated hoaxes and quizzes , had the fairest possible subject of wit in the unsuspecting Dominie . 
That fellow , Mr Mannering , is the terror of all the excise and custom-house cruisers ; they can make nothing of him ; he drubs them , or he distances them ; -- and , speaking of excise , I come to bring you to breakfast ; and you shall have some tea , that '' -- Mannering , by this time , was aware that one thought linked strangely on to another in the concatenation of worthy Mr Bertram 's ideas , `` Like orient pearls at random strung ; '' and , therefore , before the current of his associations had drifted farther from the point he had left , he brought him back by some inquiry about Dirk Hatteraick . 
Still Mannering hinted , though with due delicacy , at the risk of encouraging such desperate characters : `` Were it but in justice to the revenue , I should have supposed '' -- `` Ah , the revenue lads '' -- for Mr Bertram never embraced a general or abstract idea , and his notion of the revenue was personified in the commissioners , surveyors , comptrollers , and riding officers , whom he happened to know -- `` the revenue-lads can look sharp eneugh out for themselves -- no ane needs to help them -- and they have a ' the soldiers to assist them besides -- and as to justice -- you 'll be surprised to hear it , Mr Mannering , -- but I am not a justice of peace ? '' 
Mr Bertram had now hit upon one of the few subjects on which he felt sore , and went on with some energy . 
`` No , sir , -- the name of Godfrey Bertram of Ellangowan is not in the last commission , though there 's scarce a carle in the country that has a plough-gate of land , but what he must ride to quarter sessions , and write J. P. after his name . 
He therefore delivered the paper into Mr Bertram 's hand , and requested him to keep it for five years with the seal unbroken , until the month of November was expired . 
After that date had intervened , he left him at liberty to examine the writing , trusting that the first fatal period being then safely overpassed , no credit would be paid to its farther contents . 
He easily persuaded Ellangowan , that it would be creditable to him to take the field at the head of as strong a party as possible ; and immediately went to work , making votes , as every Scotch lawyer knows how , by splitting and subdividing the superiorities upon this ancient and once powerful barony . 
Mr Gilbert Glossin was made clerk of the peace , and Godfrey Bertram had his name inserted in a new commission of justices , issued immediately upon the sitting of the parliament . 
This had been the summit of Mr Bertram 's ambition ; not that he liked either the trouble or the responsibility of the office , but he thought it was a dignity to which he was well entitled , and that it had been withheld from him by malice prepense . 
Mr Bertram was no sooner possessed of the judicial authority which he had so much longed for , than he began to exercise it with more severity than mercy , and totally belied all the opinions which had hitherto been formed of his insert good nature . 
We have read somewhere of a justice of peace , who , on being nominated in the commission , wrote a letter to a bookseller for the statutes respecting his official duty , in the following orthography , -- `` Please send the ax relating to a gustus pease . '' 
Mr Bertram was not quite so ignorant of English grammar as his worshipful predecessor : but Augustus Pease himself could not have used more indiscriminately the weapon unwarily put into his hand . 
Nor was Mr Bertram in a hurry to exert his newly-acquired authority at the expense of these old settlers . 
But he was driven on by circumstances . 
But it so happened , notwithstanding his precautions , that he could not avoid meeting his late tenants during their retreat from his property . 
The road was narrow , running between two broken banks of sand , and Mr Bertram 's servant rode forward , smacking his whip with an air of authority , and motioning to the drivers to allow free passage to their betters . 
His signal was unattended to . 
He then called to the men who lounged idly on before , `` Stand to your beasts ' heads , and make room for the Laird to pass . '' 
`` He shall have his share of the road , '' answered a male gipsy from under his slouched and large - brimmed hat , and without raising his face , `` and he shall have nae mair ; the highway is as free to our cuddies as to his gelding . '' 
The tone of the man being sulky , and even menacing , Mr Bertram thought it best to put his dignity in his pocket , and pass by the procession quietly , on such space as they chose to leave for his accommodation , which was narrow enough . 
To cover with an appearance of indifference his feeling of the want of respect with which he was treated , he addressed one of the men , as he passed him without any show of greeting , salute , or recognition , -- `` Giles Baillie , '' he said , `` have you heard that your son Gabriel is well ? '' 
There was also a natural yearning of heart on parting with so many known and familiar faces ; and to this feeling Godfrey Bertram was peculiarly accessible , from the limited qualities of his mind , which sought its principal amusements among the petty objects around him . 
As he was about to turn his horse 's head to pursue his journey , Meg Merrilies , who had lagged behind the troop , unexpectedly presented herself . 
She was standing upon one of those high precipitous banks , which , as we before noticed , overhung the road ; so that she was placed considerably higher than Ellangowan , even though he was on horseback ; and her tall figure , relieved against the clear blue sky , seemed almost of supernatural stature . 
During the period of Mr Bertram 's active magistracy , he did not forget the affairs of the revenue . 
A few days after the departure of the gipsy tribe , Mr Bertram asked his lady one morning at breakfast , whether this was not little Harry 's birthday ? 
Mr Bertram liked to show his authority in trifles . 
as if he could not comprehend their meaning , suffered the old man to drag him towards his horse . 
During the ride home , he only said , `` Wife and bairn , baith -- mother and son , baith -- Sair , sair to abide ! '' 
It is needless to dwell upon the new scene of agony which awaited him . 
Most of Mr Bertram 's servants recollected that he generally had a couteau de chasse , or short hanger , but none such was found upon the dead body ; nor could those who had seen him on the morning of the fatal day , take it upon them to assert whether he then carried that weapon or not . 
`` I think , '' he said , `` madam , if I understood the good people right , Mr Bertram lost his son in his fifth year ? '' 
But lost the bairn was in his fifth year , as your honour says , Colonel ; and the news being rashly tell 'd to the leddy , then great with child , cost her her life that samyn night -- and the Laird never throve after that day , but was just careless of every thing -- though , when his daughter Miss Lucy grew up , she tried to keep order within doors -- but what could she do , poor thing ? 
Miss Lucy expected the chaise every moment , and , as the day was fine for the time o ' year , they had carried him in his easy chair up to the green before the auld castle , to be out of the way of this unco spectacle . '' 
Mr Bertram , paralytick , and almost incapable of moving , occupied his easy chair , attired in his nightcap , and a loose camlet coat , his feet wrapped in blankets . 
Behind him , with his hands crossed on the cane upon which he rested , stood Dominie Sampson , whom Mannering recognised at once . 
`` He was , '' he said , `` a stranger , to whom Mr Bertram had formerly shown kindness and hospitality ; he would not have intruded himself upon him at a period of distress , did it not seem to be in some degree a moment also of desertion ; he wished merely to offer such services as might be in his power to Mr Bertram and the young lady . '' 
`` He 's very heartily welcome , '' said the old man , raising himself in his chair , and attempting a gesture of courtesy , while a gleam of hospitable satisfaction seemed to pass over his faded features ; `` but , Lucy , my dear , let us go down to the house , you should not keep the gentleman here in the cold . 
`` No , no , no , '' said Lucy Bertram , earnestly ; `` if you would not add to the misery of this miserable moment , go to the company directly . 
`` Farewell , then , '' said young Hazlewood , and whispered a word in her ear -- then ran down the steep hastily , as if not trusting his resolution at a slower pace . 
`` He 'll return in a little while , '' said Lucy , gently . 
Mr Bertram started up without assistance , and turned round towards him ; the ghastliness of his features forming a strange contrast with the violence of his exclamations . 
Had Glossin been alone , he would probably have slunk off ; but the consciousness that a stranger was present , besides the person who came with him , -LRB- a sort of land-surveyor , -RRB- determined him to resort to impudence . 
The debilitated frame of Mr Bertram was exhausted by this last effort of indignant anger , and when he sunk again upon his chair , he expired almost without a struggle or groan . 
So little alteration did the extinction of the vital spark make upon his external appearance , that the screams of his daughter , when she saw his eye fix and felt his pulse stop , first announced his death to the spectators . 
But when the general murmur announced that the unfortunate Mr Bertram had broken his heart in the effort to leave the mansion of his forefathers , there poured forth a torrent of sympathy , like the waters from the rock when stricken by the wand of the prophet . 
`` Nathless , it was I who did educate Miss Lucy in all useful learning , -- albeit it was the housekeeper who did teach her those unprofitable exercises of hemming and shaping . '' 
`` Well , sir , '' replied Mannering , `` it is of Miss Lucy I meant to speak -- you have , I presume , no recollection of me ? '' 
`` Well , that does not signify , '' pursued the Colonel ; `` I am an old acquaintance of the late Mr Bertram , able and willing to assist his daughter in her present circumstances . 
The idea of parting from Miss Lucy , go where she might , had never once occurred to the simplicity of his understanding . 
-- `` It is not the lucre -- it is not the lucre -- but that I , that have ate of her father 's loaf , and drank of his cup , for twenty years and more -- to think that I am going to leave her -- and to leave her in distress and dolour -- No , Miss Lucy , you need never think it ! 
No , Miss Lucy Bertram , while I live I will not separate from you . 
''' During this speech , the longest ever Dominie Sampson was known to utter , the affectionate creature 's eyes streamed with tears , and neither Lucy nor Mac-Morlan could refrain from sympathizing with this unexpected burst of feeling and attachment . 
`` First to indemnify you of your charges in my behalf , worthy sir -- and the balance for the use of Miss Lucy Bertram . '' 
`` Then be it all , '' said the Dominie , waving his hand , `` for Miss Lucy Bertram 's behoof . '' 
`` Upon our past meetings at Ellangowan -- and , truly , I think very often we discourse concerning Miss Lucy -- for Mr Charles Hazlewood , in that prticular , resembleth me , Mr Mac-Morlan . 
When I begin to speak of her I never know when to stop -- and , as I say , -LRB- jocularly -RRB- she cheats us out of half our lessons . '' 
Lucy blushed deeply . 
wilfully seeming to misunderstand her ; -- `` most young gentlemen have so at one period or another , sure enough ; but his present studies are voluntary . '' 
He had considered the advantage which Julia might receive from the company of Lucy Bertram , whose genuine prudence and good sense could so surely be relied upon . 
This idea had become much stronger since Mac-Morlan had confided to him , under the solemn seal of secrecy , the whole of her conduct towards young Hazlewood . 
To propose to her to become an inmate in his family , if distant from the scenes of her youth and the few whom she called friends , would have been less delicate ; but at Woodbourne she might without difficulty be induced to become the visitor of a season , without being depressed into the situation of an humble companion . 
Lucy Bertram , with some hesitation , accepted the invitation to reside a few weeks with Miss Mannering . 
She felt too well , that however the Colonel 's delicacy might disguise the truth , his principal motive was a generous desire to afford her his countenance and protection , which his high connexions , and higher character , were likely to render influential in the neighbourhood . 
Lucy was strongly inclined to return the paltry donation , which , after some struggles with avarice , pride had extorted from the old lady . 
Lucy , therefore , had no alternative , unless she preferred continuing a burden upon the worthy Mac-Morlans , who were too liberal to be rich . 
Those kinsfolk who formerly requested the favour of her company , had of late either silently , or with expressions of resentment that she should have preferred Mac-Morlan 's invitation to theirs , gradually withdrawn their notice . 
The fate of Dominie Sampson would have been deplorable had it depended upon any one except Mannering , who was an admirer of originality , for a separation from Lucy Bertram would have certainly broken his heart . 
Lucy , the most quiet of the expectants , had her own melancholy thoughts . 
She was now about to be consigned to the charge , almost to the benevolence , of strangers , with whose character , though hitherto very amiably displayed , she was but imperfectly acquainted . 
The servants , who had already arrived , drew up in the hall to receive their master and mistress , with an importance and empressement , which , to Lucy , who had never been accustomed to society , or witnessed what is called the manners of the great , had something alarming . 
`` I shall not like her , '' was the result of Lucy Bertram 's first glance ; `` and yet I rather think I shall , '' was the thought excited by the second . 
Of music she knew little or nothing , but her new friend undertook to give her lessons ; in exchange for which , she was to learn from Lucy the habit of walking , and the art of riding , and the courage necessary to defy the season . 
Dazzled with such a prospect , they never considered the risk which had once been some object of their apprehension , that his boyish and inconsiderate fancy might form an attachment to the penniless Lucy Bertram , who had nothing on earth to recommend her , but a pretty face , good birth , and a most amiable disposition . 
-- and wha could tell whether the bonny knave-bairn may not come back to claim his ain ? 
-- She followed him to his horse , and , while he drew the girths of his saddle , adjusted the walise , and put on the bridle , still plied him with questions concerning Mr Bertram 's death , and the fate of his daughter ; on which , however , she could obtain little information from the honest farmer . 
And you do me equal injustice in upbraiding me with exchanging your friendship for that of Lucy Bertram . 
I assure you she has not the materials I must seek for in a bosom confidante . 
She is a charming girl , to be sure , and I like her very much , and I confess our forenoon and evening engagements have left me less time for the exercise of my pen than our proposed regularity of correspondence demands . 
But she is totally devoid of elegant accomplishments , excepting the knowledge of French and Italian , which she acquired from the most grotesque monster you ever beheld , whom my father has engaged as a kind of librarian , and whom he patronises , I believe , to show his defiance of the world 's opinion . 
I could endure the creature well enough , had I any body to laugh at him along with me ; but Lucy Bertram , if I but verge on the border of a jest affecting this same Mr Sampson , -LRB- such is the horrid man 's horrid name , -RRB- looks so piteous , that it deprives me of all spirit to proceed , and my father knits his brow , flashes fire from his eye , bites his lip , and says something that is extremely rude , and uncomfortable to my feelings . 
`` It was not of this creature , however , that I meant to speak to you -- only that , being a good scholar in the modern , as well as the ancient languages , he has contrived to make Lucy Bertram mistress of the former , and she has only . 
I believe , to thank her own good sense or obstinacy , that the Greek , Latin , -LRB- and Hebrew , for aught I know , -RRB- were not added to her acquisitions . 
And thus she really has a great fund of information , and I assure you I am daily surprised at the power which she seems to possess of amusing herself by recalling and arranging the subjects of her former reading . 
Lucy Bertram rides remarkably well , and I can now accompany her on horseback , having become emboldened by example . 
`` To return to Lucy Bertram -- No , my dearest Matilda , she can never , never rival you in my regard , so that all your affectionate jealousy on that account is without foundation . 
Now Lucy Bertram has nothing of this kindly sympathy -- nothing at all , my dearest Matilda . 
`` But with all this moderation , and self-denial , and modesty , and so forth , Lucy is a sly girl -- I am sure she loves young Hazlewood , and I am sure he has some guess of that , and would probably bring her to acknowledge it too , if my father or she would allow him an opportunity . 
He insensibly became warm in his defence -- I assure you , Matilda , he is a very clever , as well as a very handsome young man , and I do n't think I ever remember having seen him to the same advantage -- when , behold , in the midst of our lively conversation , a very soft sigh from Miss Lucy reached my not ungratified ears . 
`` Well , Matilda , Hazlewood heard this same half-audible sigh , and instantly repented his temporary attentions to such an unworthy object as your Julia , and , with a very comical expression of consciousness , drew near to Lucy 's work-table . 
He made some trifling observation , and her reply was one in which nothing but an ear as acute as that of a lover , or a curious observer like myself , could have distinguished any thing more cold and dry than usual . 
` I should think so , from the attention Mr Hazlewood and Lucy are bestowing on it . ' 
And so here am I neutralized again , for I can not , in honour , or common goodnature , tease poor Lucy by interfering with Hazlewood , although she has so little confidence in me ; and neither can I , after this grave appeal , venture again upon such delicate ground with papa . 
So that , upon the whole , Matilda , I think you should have had my father , with his pride of arms and of ancestry , his chivalrous point of honour , his high talents , and his abstruse and mystic studies -- You should have had Lucy Bertram too for your friend , whose fathers , with names which alike defy memory and orthography , ruled over this romantic country , and whose birth took place , as I have been indistinctly informed , under circumstances of deep and peculiar interest -- You should have had , too , our Scottish residence , surrounded by mountains , and our lonely walks to haunted ruins -- And I should have had , in exchange , the lawns and shrubs , and green-houses , and conservatories , of Pine-park , with your good , quiet , indulgent aunt , her chapel in the morning , her nap after dinner , her hand at whist in the evening , not forgetting her fat coach-horses and fatter coachman . 
`` About eleven o'clock on last Tuesday morning , while Hazlewood and my father were proposing to walk to a little lake about three miles ' distance , for the purpose of shooting wild ducks , and while Lucy and I were busied with arranging our plan of work and study for the day , we were alarmed by the sound of horses ' feet , advancing very fast up the avenue . 
Lucy , looking as pale as a marble statue , and keeping her eyes fixed on Hazlewood , seemed not even to hear the prayers with which he conjured her to leave the front of the house . 
Lucy and I came in for a share of his applause , because we had stood fire with firmness , and had not disturbed him with screams or expostulations . 
There is snow on the ground , but frozen so hard that I thought Lucy and I might venture to that distance , as the footpath leading there was well beaten by the repair of those who frequented it for pastime . 
I do n't think Lucy liked her walk the less for these occasional embarrassments . 
Lucy had quitted Hazlewood 's arm -- it is only the plea of absolute necessity which reconciles her to accept his assistance . 
Lucy followed us close , and the servant was two or three paces behind us . 
I saw no more , for the whole scene reeled before my eyes , and I fainted away ; but , by Lucy 's report , the unhappy perpetrator of this action gazed a moment on the scene before him , until her screams began to alarm the people upon the lake , several of whom now came in sight . 
Then poor Lucy 's illconcealed grief , occasioned by her lover 's wound , is another source of distress to me , and every thing round me appears to bear witness against that indiscretion which has occasioned this calamity . 
The groom , on the other hand , maintains that the piece was wrenched out of Hazlewood 's hands , and deliberately pointed at his body , and Lucy inclines to the same opinion -- I do not suspect them of wilful exaggeration , yet such is the fallacy of human testimony , for the unhappy shot was most unquestionably discharged unintentionally . 
I once thought of disclosing the mystery to Lucy , and began by asking what she recollected of the person and features of the man whom we had so unfortunately met -- but she ran out into such a horrid description of a hedgeruffian , that I was deprived of all courage and disposition to own my attachment to one of such appearance as she attributed to him . 
I must say Miss Bertram is strangely biassed by her prepossessions , for there are few handsomer men than poor Brown . 
ou , it was Miss Jowlia Mannering and Miss Lucy Bertram , that ye ken fu ' weel yoursell , Mr. Glossin -- they were walking wi ' the young Laird of Hazlewood upon the ice . '' 
`` Tut , we just said that was Miss Lucy Bertram of Ellangowan , that should ance have had a great estate in the country -- and that was Miss Jowlia Mannering , that was to be married to young Hazlewood -- See as she was hinging on his arm -- we just spoke about our country clashes like -- he was a very frank man . '' 
It was signed by Mr. Protocol , an attorney in Edinburgh , and , addressing him as the agent for Godfrey Bertram , Esq. late of Ellangowan , and his representatives , acquainted him with the sudden death of Mrs Margaret Bertram of Single-side , requesting him to inform his clients thereof , in case they should judge it proper to have any person present for their interest at opening the repositories of the deceased . 
The estate of the deceased lady should by rights , as he well knew , descend to Lucy Bertram ; but it was a thousand to one that the caprice of the old lady might have altered its destination . 
-- Besides , to do Glossin justice , bad as he was , he might feel some desire to compensate to Miss Bertram in a small degree , and in a case in which his own interest did not interfere with hers , the infinite mischief which he had occasioned to her family . 
Lucy , remembering the last scene of her father 's existence , turned as pale as death , and had wellnigh fallen from her chair . 
`` If it can be communicated to Mr. Mac-Morlan , her agent , sir , I believe it will be more agreeable to Miss Bertram . '' 
`` I will learn Miss Bertram 's pleasure on the subject , and acquaint Mr Glossin , if he can spare time to wait for her answer . '' 
`` I have detained you some time , I fear , sir , '' said he , addressing Glossin ; `` I wished to prevail upon Miss Bertram to see you , as , in my opinion , her objections ought to give way to the necessity of hearing in her own person what is stated to be of importance that she should know . 
But I find that circumstances of recent occurrence , and not easily to be forgotten , have rendered her so utterly repugnant to a personal interview with Mr. Glossin , that it would be cruelty to insist upon it : and she has deputed me to receive his commands , or proposal , or , in short , whatever he may wish to say to her . '' 
Have you any objection to communicate to me , as Miss Bertram 's temporary guardian , the circumstances which you conceive to interest her ? '' 
`` None , Colonel Mannering ; she could not choose a more respectable friend , or one with whom I , in particular , would more anxiously wish to communicate frankly . '' 
This lady -- this Mrs Margaret Bertram , to my certain knowledge , made a general settlement of her affairs in Miss Lucy Bertram 's favour while she lived with my old friend , Mr Bertram , at Ellangowan . 
And she had full power at that time to make such a settlement , for she was in fee of the estate of Single-side even then , although it was life-rented by an elder sister . 
You say that this lady had power to settle her estate on Miss Bertram , and that she did so ? '' 
But I , for my own part , only wish Miss Bertram and her friends to be satisfied that I am acting towards her with honour . 
It would have been a satisfaction to me to have delivered it into Miss Bertram 's own hands , and to have wished her joy of the prospects which it opens . 
But since her prejudices on the subject are invincible , it only remains for me to transmit her my best wishes through you , Colonel Mannering , and to express that I shall willingly give my testimony in support of that deed when I shall be called upon . 
Glossin was no sooner mounted and gone , than the Colonel dispatched a groom for Mr. Mac-Morlan , and , putting the deed into his hand , requested to know if it was likely to be available to his friend Lucy Bertram . 
Let me have it instantly -- shall we tell Miss Lucy her chance of becoming an heiress ? '' 
`` Surely , because you must have some powers from her , which I will instantly draw out . 
Besides , I will be caution for her prudence , and that she will consider it only in the light of a chance . '' 
It could not be discerned from Miss Bertram 's manner , that she founded exulting hopes upon the prospect thus unexpectedly opening before her . 
She did indeed , in the course of the evening , ask Mr. Mac-Morlan , as if by accident , what might be the annual income of the Hazlewood property ; but shall we therefore aver for certain that she was considering whether an heiress of four hundred a-year might be a suitable match for the young Laird ? 
The monarch opened Mac-Morlan 's letter , and , running it hastily over , exclaimed , with his natural voice and manner , `` Lucy Bertram of Ellangowan , poor dear lassie ! '' 
He knows I have a regard for that unfortunate family of Ellangowan , and for poor Lucy . 
I have not seen her since she was twelve years old , and she was then a sweet pretty girl under the management of a very silly father . 
But my interest in her is of an early date . 
I was called upon , Mr Mannering , being then sheriff of that county , to investigate the particulars of a murder which had been committed near Ellangowan the day on which this poor child was born ; and which , by a strange combination that I was unhappily not able to trace , involved the death or abstraction of her only brother , a boy of about five years old . 
-- The old lady is to be buried on Monday ; it is the orphan 's cause , and we 'll borrow an hour from the Sunday to talk over this business -- although I fear nothing can be done if she has altered her settlement -- unless perhaps it occurs within the sixty days , and then if Miss Bertram can show that she possesses the character of heir-at-law , why -- `` But , hark ! 
`` I 'll bet a rump and dozen , '' said Pleydell , whispering to the Colonel , `` he has got it in his own pocket ; '' -- then addressing the man of law , `` Come , sir , we 'll cut this short if you please -- here is a settlement of the estate of Single-side , executed several years ago , in favour of Miss Lucy Bertram of Ellangowan '' -- The company stared fearfully wild . 
answered the barrister , -- `` why does a cat not kill a mouse when she takes him ? 
It proceeded to state , that Henry Bertram , son and heir of Godfrey Bertram , now of Ellangowan , had been stolen from his parents in infancy , but that she , the testatrix , was well assured that he was yet alive in foreign parts , and by the providence of heaven would be restored to the possessions of his ancestors -- in which case the said Peter Protocol was bound and obliged , like as he bound and obliged himself , by acceptance of these presents , to denude himself of the said lands of Single-side and others , and of all the other effects thereby conveyed -LRB- excepting always a proper gratification for his own trouble -RRB- to and in favour of the said Henry Bertram upon his return to his native country . 
`` Now what could drive it into the noddle of that old harridan , '' said Pleydell , `` to disinherit poor Lucy Bertram , under pretence of settling her property on a boy who has been so long dead and gone ? 
And then some of the company at Gilsland tells her that the estate was to be sell 'd ; and ye wad hae thought she had taen an ill will at Miss Lucy Bertram frae that moment , for mony a time she cried to me , ` O Becky , O Becky , if that useless peenging thing o ' a lassie there , at Ellangowan , that canna keep her ne'er - do-weel father within bounds -- if she had been but a lad-bairn , they couldna hae sell 'd the auld inheritance for that fool-body 's debts ; ' -- and she would rin on that way till I was just wearied and sick to hear her ban the puir lassie , as if she wadna hae been a lad-bairn , and keepit the land , if it had been in her will to change her sect . 
Naebody that 's seen her will ever forget her ; and I am morally sure that it was on the ground o ' what that gipsy-woman said that my mistress made her will , having taen a dislike at the young leddy o ' Ellangowan ; and she liked her far waur after she was obliged to send her 20 l. -- for she said , Miss Bertram , no content wi ' letting the Ellangowan property pass into strange hands , owing to her being a lass and no a lad , was coming , by her poverty , to be a burden and a disgrace to Single-side too . 
and that d -- d jade too , to set up her pipe ! 
`` I beg leave , '' said Bertram , his recollection turning to the gipsy female , and to the promise he had given her , `` I beg leave to decline answering that question . '' 
Bertram next desired the maid to procure him a book , and enforced his request with a shilling ; in consequence of which , after long absence , she re-appeared with two odd volumes of the Newgate Calendar , which she had borrowed from Sam Silverquill , an idle apprentice , who was imprisoned under a charge of forgery . 
Having laid the books on the table she retired , and left Bertram to studies which were not ill adapted to his present melancholy situation . 
A letter had already made Miss Bertram acquainted with the downfall of the expectations which had been formed upon the bequest of her kinswoman . 
Whatever hopes that news might have dispelled , the disappointment did not prevent her from joining her friend in affording a cheerful reception to the Colonel , to whom she thus endeavoured to express the deep sense she entertained of his paternal kindness . 
She touched on her regret , that at such a season of the year he should have made , upon her account , a journey so fruitless . 
said Mannering , who observed Miss Bertram looking much alarmed for her simple but attached friend . 
`` No , '' said he to himself , `` I will not endanger the comfort of my Lucy 's present retreat , until I can offer her a home of her own . '' 
-- Bertram was confirmed in this last opinion , by observing that the boat made for a little quay which ran into the sea behind the Custom-house , and , jumping ashore one after another , the crew , to the number of twenty hands , glided secretly up a small lane which divided the Custom-house from the Bridewell , and disappeared from his sight , leaving only two persons to take care of the boat . 
The dash of these men 's oars at first , and latterly the suppressed sounds of their voices , had excited the wrath of the wakeful sentinel in the courtyard , who now exalted his deep voice into such a horrid and continuous din , that it awakened his brute master , as savage a ban-dog as himself . 
His cry from a window , of `` How now , Tearum , what 's the matter , sir ? 
produced no abatement of Tearum 's vociferation , which in part prevented his master from hearing the sounds of alarm which his ferocious vigilance was in the act of challenging . 
But the mate of the two-legged Cerberus was gifted with sharper ears than her husband . 
She also was now at the window ; `` B -- t ye , gae down and let loose the dog , '' she said , `` they 're sporting the door of the Custom-house , and the auld sap at Hazlewood-house has ordered off the guard . 
And down the Amazon sallied to perform the task herself , while her help-mate , more jealous of insurrection within doors , than of storm from without , went from cell to cell to see that the inhabitants of each were carefully secured . 
There was no stir in the house ; it seemed as if the jailor had deserted his charge , and left the prison with its wretched inhabitants to the mercy of the conflagration which was spreading towards them . 
Miss Lucy Bertram , my love , I am most happy to see you . '' 
-- And he folded her in his arms , and gave her a hearty kiss on each side of the face , to which Lucy submitted in blushing resignation . 
Lucy Bertram , who sung her native melodies very sweetly , was accompanied by her friend upon the instrument , and Julia afterwards performed some of Scarlatti 's sonatas with great brilliancy . 
`` Imagine , my dear Mr. Pleydell , '' continued Lucy , `` how much Miss Mannering and I were alarmed , when a ruffian , equally dreadful for his great strength , and the sternness of his features , rushed out upon us ! '' 
Mannering saw before him the man whom he supposed he had killed in India ; Julia beheld her lover in a most peculiar and hazardous situation ; and Lucy Bertram at once knew the person who had fired upon young Hazlewood . 
The former beheld , to his astonishment , the Colonel but just recovering from his first surprise , Lucy Bertram ready to faint with terror , and Miss Mannering in an agony of doubt and apprehension , which she in vain endeavoured to disguise or suppress . 
Then instantly passing to Lucy , `` Look at that man , Miss Bertram , my dear ; have you never seen any one like him ? '' 
Lucy had only ventured one glance at this object of terror , by which , however , from his remarkable height and appearance , she at once recognised the supposed assassin of young Hazlewood ; a conviction which excluded , of course , the more favourable association of ideas which might have occurred on a closer view . 
-- `` Do n't ask me about him , sir , '' said she , turning away her eyes ; `` send him away , for heaven 's sake ! 
Miss Mannering rose and retired accordingly ; yet , as she passed Bertram , could not suppress the words , `` Infatuated ! 
Miss Bertram accompanied her friend , much surprised , but without venturing a second glance at the object of her terror . 
Some mistake she saw there was , and was unwilling to increase it by denouncing the stranger as an assassin . 
He was known , she saw , to the Colonel , and received as a gentleman ; certainly he either was not the person she suspected , or Hazlewood was right in supposing the shot accidental . 
Miss Bertram was in the breakfast parlour when Sampson shuffled in , his face all radiant with smiles ; a circumstance so uncommon , that Lucy 's first idea was , that somebody had been bantering him with an imposition , which had thrown him into this ecstasy . 
Having sate for some time , rolling his eyes and gaping with his mouth like the great wooden head at Merlin 's exhibition , he at length began -- `` And what do you think of him , Miss Lucy ? '' 
replied Lucy , totally at a loss to comprehend his meaning . 
`` Really , Mr. Sampson , '' said Lucy , somewhat piqued , `` you are unusually gay this morning . '' 
`` You shall know it , Miss Lucy , '' replied poor Abel -- `` Do you remember your brother ? '' 
`` It is indeed my father 's face and form , '' said Lucy , turning very pale ; Bertram ran to support her -- the Dominie to fetch water to throw upon her face -- -LRB- which in his haste he took from the boiling tea-urn -RRB- when fortunately her colour returning rapidly , saved her from the application of this ill-judged remedy . 
`` I conjure you to tell me , Mr. Sampson , '' she said , in an interrupted , yet solemn voice , `` is this my brother ? '' 
-- Miss Lucy , it is little Harry Bertram , as sure as God 's sun is in that Heaven ! '' 
-- it is Miss Lucy Bertram , '' ejaculated Sampson , `` whom by my poor aid you will find perfect in the tongues of France , and Italy , and even of Spain -- in reading and writing her vernacular tongue , and in arithmetic and book-keeping by double and single entry -- I say nothing of her talents of shaping , and hemming , and governing a household , which , to give every one their due , she acquired not from me , but from the housekeeper -- nor do I take merit for her performance upon stringed instruments , whereunto the instructions of an honourable young lady of virtue and modesty , and very facetious withal -- Miss Julia Mannering -- hath not meanly contributed -- Suum cuique tribuito . '' 
`` That , '' said Lucy , `` he left to this gentleman to tell you , one of the kindest and most faithful of friends , who soothed my father 's long sickness , witnessed his dying moments , and amid the heaviest clouds of fortune would not desert his orphan . '' 
This was the more ridiculous , as towards Lucy he assumed no such powers of tuition . 
But she had grown up under his eye , and had been gradually emancipated from his government by increase in years and knowledge , and a latent sense of his own inferior tact in manners , whereas his first ideas went to take up Harry pretty nearly where he had left him . 
I am wrong in the story , I believe -- Canzade was his wife -- but Lucy may represent the one , and the Dominie the other . 
And then this lively crack-brained Scotch lawyer appears like a pantomime at the end of a tragedy -- And then how delightful it will be if Lucy gets back her fortune ! '' 
`` Now I think , '' said the Colonel , `` that the most mysterious part of the business is , that Miss Julia Mannering , who must have known her father 's anxiety about the fate of this young man Brown , or Bertram , as we must now call him , should have met him when Hazlewood 's accident took place , and never once mentioned to her father a word of the matter , but suffered the search to proceed against this young gentleman as a suspicious character and assassin . '' 
Lucy , while she indulged to the uttermost her affection for her recovered brother , began to think of the quarrel betwixt him and Hazlewood . 
-- He looked at Bertram -- he looked at Lucy -- he whimpered -- he sniggled -- he grinned -- he committed all manner of solecisms in point of form -- poured the whole cream -LRB- no unlucky mistake -RRB- upon the plate of porridge , which was his own usual breakfast -- threw the slops of what he called his `` crowning dish of tea '' into the sugar-dish instead of the slop-basin , and concluded with spilling the scalded liquor upon old Plato , the Colonel 's favourite spaniel , who received the libation with a howl that did little honour to his philosophy . 
`` You increase my anxiety , '' replied her brother , `` to confront this miscreant , even in the den he has constructed for himself -- I think I have seen him . '' 
`` But you must consider , '' said Julia , `` that you are now left under Lucy 's guard and mine , and are responsible to us for all your motions -- consider I have not been a lawyer 's mistress twelve hours for nothing , and I assure you it would be madness to attempt to go to Ellangowan just now . 
Lucy felt proud of her brother , as well from the bold and manly turn of his sentiments , as from the dangers he had encountered , and the spirit with which he had surmounted them . 
`` There , '' said Lucy Bertram , pointing them out in the distance , `` there is the seat of our ancestors . 
But , O that I might see you in possession of such relics of their fortune as should give you an honourable independence , and enable you to stretch your hand for the protection of the old and destitute dependents of our family , whom our poor father 's death '' -- `` True , my dearest Lucy , '' answered the young heir of Ellangowan ; `` and I trust , with the assistance of Heaven , which has so far guided us , and with that of these good friends , whom their own generous hearts have interested in my behalf , such a consummation of my hard adventures is now not unlikely . 
Accordingly , the Knights of the Round Table did not recoil with more terror from the apparition of the loathly lady placed between `` an oak and a green holly , '' than Lucy Bertram and Julia Mannering did from the appearance of this Galwegian sibyl upon the common of Ellangowan . 
said Meg , exalting the harsh and rough tones of her hollow voice ; `` Why do you not follow ? 
-- were it at kirk or market , wedding or burial , '' -- and she held high her skinny forefinger in a menacing attitude . 
Bertram turned round to his terrified companions . 
said Lucy . 
Her tall figure moved across the wintry heath with steps so swift , so long , and so steady , that she appeared rather to glide than to walk . 
Bertram and Dinmont , both tall men , apparently scarce equalled her in height , owing to her longer dress and high head-gear . 
She proceeded straight across the common , without turning aside to the winding path , by which passengers avoided the inequalities and little rills that traversed it in different directions . 
There was something frightful and unearthly , as it were , in the rapid and undeviating course which she pursued , undeterred by any of the impediments which usually incline a traveller from the direct path . 
Her way was as straight , and nearly as swift , as that of a bird through the air . 
`` This is very extraordinary , '' said Lucy after a pause , and turning round to her companion ; `` What can he have to do with that old hag ? '' 
`` At least , '' said Lucy , `` we may hold him safe from harm ; for she would never have summoned that faithful creature Dinmont , of whose strength , courage , and steadiness , Henry said so much , to attend upon an expedition where she projected evil to the person of his friend . 
`` The Colonel will be here immediately , '' he said ; `` I galloped on before to pay my respects to Miss Bertram , with the sincerest congratulations upon the joyful event which has taken place in her family . 
`` He has left us just now , '' said Lucy , `` and in a manner that has frightened us very much . '' 
said the Colonel ; `` she certainly is a most mysterious and unaccountable personage ; but I think she must have something to impart to Bertram , to which she does not mean we should be privy . '' 
As she led the way , she never looked back upon her followers , unless to chide them for loitering , though the sweat , in spite of the season , poured from their brows . 
At other times she spoke to herself in such broken expressions as these : -- `` It is to rebuild the auld house -- it is to lay the corner stone -- and did I not warn him ? 
She paused an instant beneath the tall rock where he had witnessed the burial of a dead body , and stamped upon the ground , which , notwithstanding all the care that had been taken , showed vestiges of having been recently moved . 
`` Here rests ane , '' she said ; `` he 'll maybe hae neibors sune . '' 
She then moved up the brook until she came to the ruined hamlet , where , pausing with a look of peculiar and softened interest before one of the gables which was still standing , she said in a tone less abrupt , though as solemn as before , `` Do you see that blackit and broken end of a sheeling ? 
-- I 've sat there , and , '' elevating her voice , `` I 've held you on my knee , Henry Bertram , and sung ye sangs of the auld barons and their bloody wars -- It will ne'er be green again , and Meg Merrilies will never sing sangs mair , be they blithe or sad . 
The mixture of insanity and wild pathos with which she spoke these last words , with her right arm bare and extended , her left bent and shrouded beneath the dark red drapery of her mantle , might have been a study worthy of our Siddons herself . 
`` And now , '' she said , resuming at once the short , stern , and hasty tone which was most ordinary to her -- `` let us to the wark -- let us to the wark . '' 
She then led the way to the promontory on which the Kaim of Derncleugh was situated , produced a large key from her pocket , and unlocked the door . 
`` I have made things decent , '' she said ; `` I may be streekit here or night . 
She then pointed to a table , upon which was some cold meat , arranged with more attention to neatness than could have been expected from Meg 's habits . 
Bertram , in complaisance , eat a morsel or two ; and Dinmont , whose appetite was unabated either by wonder , apprehension , or the meal of the morning , made his usual figure as a trencher-man . 
She then offered each a single glass of spirits , which Bertram drank diluted , and his companion plain . 
`` And now , '' she said , `` ye maun hae arms -- ye maunna gang on dry-handed -- but use them not rashly -- take captive , but save life -- let the law hae its ain -- he maun speak ere he die . '' 
said Bertram in astonishment , receiving a pair of pistols which she offered him , and which , upon examining , he found loaded and locked . 
`` The flints are gude , '' she said , `` and the powder dry -- I ken this wark weel . '' 
Then , without answering his questions , she armed Dinmont also with a large pistol , and desired them to choose sticks for themselves out of a parcel of very suspicious-looking bludgeons , which she brought from a corner . 
She guided them to the wood of Warroch by the same track which the late Ellangowan had used when riding to Derncleugh in quest of his child , on the miserable evening of Kennedy 's murder . 
She led them accordingly by a long and winding passage almost overgrown with brushwood , until , without any very perceptible descent , they suddenly found themselves by the sea-side . 
They bore her accordingly to the vault . 
On the way her mind seemed to run more upon the scene which had just passed , than on her own approaching death . 
It was evident that the unexpected appearance of Hazlewood , whose person the outrage of Hatteraick left her no time to recognise , had produced a strong effect on her imagination . 
She often recurred to it . 
When the gipsy arrived at the hut , she produced the key ; and when they entered , and were about to deposit her upon the bed , she said , in an anxious tone , `` Na , na ! 
not that way , the feet to the east ; '' and appeared gratified when they reversed her posture accordingly , and placed her in that appropriate to a dead body . 
`` That you have seen me alive , '' said Bertram to Lucy , who first ran up to him , though Julia 's eyes even anticipated hers , `` you must thank these kind friends . '' 
With a blush expressing at once pleasure , gratitude , and bashfulness , Lucy curtsied to Hazlewood , but to Dinmont she frankly extended her hand . 
With the same purpose , he understood , his aunt had given to Bertram the treasure of the tribe , of which she had the custody . 
`` But she must convey and make over her interest in me to Lucy . '' 
And is poor Lucy to keep house with that old fool and his wife , who is just the knight himself in petticoats ? '' 
