-- I must not I ought not to practise disguise with any one , much less with my Louisa ; and I can not but own that his questions suggested a plan of future happiness to my mind , which if realized would be delightful . 
The brother of my dear Louisa , the chosen friend of my heart , is to be at Paris . 
Louisa knows what I mean by falling in love . 
Do not call me romantic : if romance it be , it originates in the supreme satisfaction I have taken in contemplating the powers and beauties of my Louisa 's mind . 
But no wonder : it was my Louisa 's gift ; and , kissing her lips , imbibed a part of her spirit . 
Why , my Louisa , my friend , my sister , ah , why are not you with me ? 
LOUISA CLIFTON . 
Oh , Louisa ! 
I must own I was vexed and offended with myself , when I found that the something overlooked on this occasion was the gift of my Louisa . 
Ingratitude with all its reproaches rose up to sting me ; and I immediately resolved to punish myself , by informing my Louisa how unworthy I am of the gifts of such a friend . 
I believe I am a sad wicked girl , Louisa ! 
Upon my honour , Louisa , he is a gallant youth ! 
My dear mother had not the bodily strength of Sir Arthur ; but , with respect to cool courage and active presence of mind , I must say , Louisa , there was no comparison . 
Beside , I would not have my Louisa think too meanly of me . 
I know I never need apologize to my Louisa for the length of my letters . 
By the luckiest accident in the world , I have been allowed to accompany her thus far , have ridden all day with my eye fixed upon her , and at night have had the ecstatic pleasure to defend , to fight for her ! 
Perhaps have saved her life ! 
Have been wounded for her ! 
To die for her seems to be a bliss which mortal man can not merit ! 
So it is , of love such as I bear to my Louisa ; and of such perhaps as angels might be supposed to bear to angels . 
I am called for : Adieu , my ever dear Louisa . 
Must I not tell my Louisa how infinitely her candor and justice delight me ? 
Yet I will confess my opinion , strong as it is , receives violent attacks ; as , Louisa , you will be convinced , when you have read the whole of this letter . 
If the mind of Clifton should be such , shall I cowardly decline what I believe it to be incumbent on me to perform ? 
Let him be only such as I expect , and let me be fortunate enough to gain his affections and you shall see , Louisa , whether trifles shall make me desist . 
-- Let me not hide a thought from my Louisa . 
Would you believe it , Louisa ? 
His benevolent aunt has been with him , for he is still under the surgeon 's hands ; and he has confessed to her -LSB- I am angry with myself , Louisa , to find I wonder at it -RSB- he has confessed that the brave , the humane , the noble-minded Frank has visited him several times , and has set the folly of his wicked pursuits in so true and so strong a light , that the man protests , with the utmost vehemence , if he can but escape punishment for the faults he has committed , he will sooner perish than again be guilty of his former crimes . 
You can not imagine , Louisa , the heart-felt praises which the worthy Mrs. Clarke bestowed on the youth . 
I knew Frank had a noble heart ; and I own , Louisa , I was not much amazed when Peggy , with abundance of kind expressions and a flow of simple eloquence , related the manner in which Frank had saved her husband from the bailiffs , by paying a debt which with costs amounted to upward of eighteen pounds . 
And now , my dear Louisa , for the present farewel . 
There is an intimacy between our families at present ; which was first occasioned by an affection which your sister Louisa and Anna St. Ives conceived for each other , and which has continually increased , very much indeed to my satisfaction . 
For , before I saw this young lady , I never met with one whom I thought deserving of the friendship of your sister , Louisa ; whose strength of mind , if I do not mistake , is very extraordinary for her years . 
I scarcely need tell you , Clifton , that though you have resided but little with me , I feel all the fond affection of a parent ; that I am earnestly desirous to hear of your happiness , and to promote it ; and that no pleasure which the world could afford to me , personally , would equal that of seeing you become a good and great man . 
One thing however I can not forget ; which is , that I am your mother , Clifton ; and that I have the most ardent and unremitting desire to see you a virtuous and a happy man . 
Do not think , my dear Clifton , I am unjust enough to mean any thing personal ; to satirize what I can scarcely be said to have seen , or to condemn unheard . 
So farewell ; and believe me to be very sincerely yours , COKE CLIFTON . 
My mother 's last was partly a letter of business , but chiefly of recommendation , particularly of the young lady : and in it was enclosed one from my sister , Louisa , which gives a very high character of her friend , Anna St. Ives . 
After abundance of jolting in carriages , sea-sickness , and such like trifling accidents , incidental to us travellers , here we are at last , dear Louisa . 
-- Have you never heard this nonsense , Louisa ? 
And now , Louisa , traveller like , could I regale you with a melancholy narrative , relating how the fields in this country have no hedges ; how the cows are as meagre as their keepers ; how wretched the huts and their owners appear ; how French postillions jump in and out of jack-boots , with their shoes on , because they are too heavy to drag after them ; how they harness their horses with ropes ; how dexterously they crack the merciless whips with which they belabour the poor hacks they drive ; how we were obliged to pay for five of these hacks , having only four in our carriage , and two of them frequently blind , lame , or useless ; with many other items , that might be grievous to hear , could I but persuade myself thoroughly to pity or be angry at the whole French nation , for not exactly resembling the English . 
And now , dear Louisa , I am soon to meet your brother . 
Does not Louisa honour me with the title of friend , and shall I prove unworthy of her friendship ? 
I shall wait , with some impatience , for a letter from my dear Louisa . 
I have been seized with I know not what apprehensions , by some hints which she has two or three times lately repeated , concerning the brother of her dear and worthy friend , Louisa ; who , it seems , is to give us the meeting at Paris . 
The oddest and most unlucky accident imaginable , Louisa , has happened . 
I return eagerly to my Louisa . 
-- Forgive me , Louisa -- It was unjust in me to say I was not quite sure he is your inferior -- However I can very seriously assure you , he is not one of your every day folks . 
Whatever you may think of me , Louisa , I do persuade myself I know something of women . 
Now have you sincerely so much vanity , Louisa ? 
You seem to have `` put powder in her drink ; '' and I freely tell you I wish she loved me half as well as she professes to love her immaculate Louisa . 
This brother of Louisa ! 
This identical Clifton , for Clifton it was , has again appeared ; has been here , is here , is never hence . 
She has mentioned him several times ; has expected , with a kind of eagerness , he would resemble her Louisa ; has hoped he and I should be friends . 
P. S. He -- -LSB- I mean Louisa 's brother ; for I think only of one he and one she , at present . -RSB- 
Never was woman so devoted to woman as Anna St. Ives is to Louisa . 
I have two or three times been inclined to write and ask Louisa 's pardon . 
I know not whether reflecting on it will appease , or increase , the sensations which the behaviour of this brother of Louisa hourly exacerbates . 
said Clifton . 
Strong , I own , nay uncommon in its powers ; for such the mind of Clifton is : but its strength is its disease . 
The assiduity of Clifton , my dear Louisa , is so great that we already seem to be acquaintance of seven years standing . 
A little incident happened , when we removed , which was characteristic of the manners of the people , and drew forth a pleasing trait of the acuteness of Clifton , and of his turn of thinking . 
Clifton , well acquainted with the manners of the people , and knowing the man imagined Sir Arthur meant to insult him , by giving him the same glass out of which he had drunken , with great alacrity took it up the moment the man had set it down , and said -- Non , mon ami , c'est à moi -- and drank off the wine . 
The French are a people of active and lively feelings ; and the poor fellow , after receiving the glass from Clifton , took up the other empty tumbler , poured the wine back into it , said in his own language forgive me , sir ; I see I am in the wrong ; and immediately drank out of the tumbler which he had before refused . 
Each country you perceive , Louisa , has its own ideas of delicacy . 
The good humour as well as the good sense of Clifton 's reproof pleased me highly ; and we must all acknowledge him our superior , in the art of easily conforming to the customs of foreigners , and in readily pardoning even their absurdities . 
For foreigners , Louisa , have their absurdities , as well as ourselves . 
I have another anecdote to relate of Clifton , from which I augur still more . 
Poor Thomas finding himself among a kind of heathens , as he calls the French , pitied his case very sincerely , and had supplied him with food for some days , promising that he would soon take an opportunity of speaking to me , whom he is pleased to call the best young lady in the world ; and I assure you , Louisa , I am proud of his good word . 
So far said I to myself , Clifton , all is right . 
The poor fellow was quite confounded , and I was half out of breath from an apprehension that Clifton had taken the wrong side of the question . 
-- You can not conceive , Louisa , the infinite pleasure which these few words gave me -- I still continued silent , and watching , not the lad , but your brother . 
The lad went away , with more in his countenance than he knew how to put into speech ; and I asked Clifton what he meant by desiring him to come again . 
Think , Louisa , whether I were not pleased with this proof of discernment . 
By this accident , I learned more of Clifton 's character in ten minutes than perhaps I might have done in ten months . 
And now , Louisa , with anxiety I own , my mind is far from satisfied . 
The supposition of a duty , too serious to be trifled with , has induced me to favour rather than repulse the too eager advances of Clifton ; though this supposed duty has been but half examined . 
I need not tell my Louisa which way affection , were it encouraged , would incline : but I will not be its slave . 
Clifton was present . 
She was surprised ; and , I doubt not , had the same suspicions as myself ; for , after telling me I must not think of going , she obliged Clifton himself to be the intercessor , with Sir Arthur , that I should stay . 
Clifton is openly countenanced by Sir Arthur , treated kindly by her , and is incessant in every kind of assiduity . 
But a heaven that ominously vanished , at the entrance of Clifton . 
I know not for my part what aspect I wore ; but I could observe that the haughty Clifton felt the gaiety of his heart in some sort disturbed , and was not pleased to catch me listening , with such mute attention , to the ravishing music she had made . 
Clifton will suffer no impediment from the cowardice of which I complain ; for I much mistake if he has been accustomed to refusal ; or if he can scarcely think , when he deigns to sue , denial possible . 
I fear , my dear Louisa , I am at present hurried forward a little too fast to act with all the caution which I could wish . 
Yes , my Louisa , let me discharge my conscience . 
Adieu , my dear Louisa : and , when you come to this place , imagine me for a moment in your arms . 
Clifton is as active as the best , and is very expert in all feats of agility . 
You know , Louisa , how much I despise the affectation of reserve ; but he is so enterprising a youth that I am sometimes obliged , though very unwillingly , to exert a little mild authority . 
Clifton is well acquainted with foreign manners , or I can perceive their gallantry to me would make him half mad . 
Clifton has equal or perhaps greater merits of the same kind . 
And I assure you , Louisa , the women here can pay their court more artfully and almost as openly as the men . 
-- A Clifton ! 
-- A brother of Louisa ! 
Clifton is so much alarmed by the particular respect which the Count de Beaunoir -LSB- A pleasant kind of madman , who is a visitant here . -RSB- 
I told him I was far from insensible of his merits ; that a union with the brother of my Louisa , if propriety , duty , and affection should happen to combine , would be the first wish of my heart ; that I should consider any affectation and coyness as criminal ; but that I was not entirely free from doubt ; and , before I could agree to the proposal being made to Sir Arthur , I thought it necessary we should mutually compare our thoughts , and scrutinize as it were each other to the very soul ; that we might not act rashly , in the most serious of all the private events of life . 
-- You know my heart , Louisa ; at least as well as I myself know it ; and I am fearful of being precipitate . 
The noblest natures , Louisa , are the most subject to pride , can the least endure neglect , and are aptest to construe whatever is not directly affirmative in their favour into injustice . 
He may be more in earnest than I desire ; but I hope he is not ; because , if I am to be your sister as well as your friend , I should be sorry that any thing should excite a shadow of doubt in the mind of Clifton . 
My alarms , Louisa , increase ; and with them my anxious wishes for an eclaircissement with Frank . 
Clifton has too strongly imbibed high but false notions of honour and revenge . 
Clifton has bought an English hunter , from one of his countrymen at Paris , which he was exhibiting to his French friends , whose horsemanship is very different from ours , and who were surprised to see him ride so fearlessly over gates and other impediments . 
One of the gentlemen asked whether the horse could leap over the haha : to which Clifton made no answer , but immediately clapped spurs to his hunter , and over he flew . 
The whole company , gentlemen and ladies , broke out into exclamations of surprise ; and Clifton turned his horse 's head round , and regained his former place . 
While they were wondering , Frank Henley happened to make it a matter of doubt whether a man or a horse could leap the farthest ; and Clifton , continually in the habit of contending with Frank , said it was ridiculous to start such an argument , unless he would first shew that he himself could make the same leap . 
Clifton , indulging his wrong habits , though I have no doubt admiring Frank as much as the rest , told him in a kind of sarcastic banter that , though he could not prove the equality of mankind , he had at least proved himself equal to a horse . 
This answer I fear dwells upon the mind of Clifton ; and I scarcely myself can tell whether it were or were not worthy of Frank . 
How can Clifton be wilfully blind to such courage , rectitude of heart , understanding and genius ? 
The stern unrelenting fortitude of Frank , in the cause of justice , and some symptoms of violence in the impetuous Clifton , have inspired me with apprehensions ; and have induced me to behave with more reserve and coldness to Frank than I ever before assumed . 
Yet , Louisa , my heart is wrung to see the effect it produces . 
-- Yes , Louisa , must -- And is there not danger he should think me severe ; nay unjust ? 
-- Indeed , Louisa , I could be a very woman -- But I will not ! 
-- It is passed -- I have put my handkerchief to my eyes and it is gone -- I have repressed an obstinate heaving of the heart -- Let her blame me , if I deserve it , but my Louisa must see me as I am -- Yet I will conquer -- Be sure I will -- But I must not sing his song any more ! 
The smiles too which she bestows on the brother of Louisa , and the haughty airs of triumph which he assumes , what can these be ? 
This Clifton -- ! 
I have mentioned this adventure , my dear Louisa , not so much for it 's own sake as for what relates to myself . 
Once again , Louisa , it must immediately have an end . 
Heaven bless my Louisa , and give her superior prudence to guard and preserve her from these too strong susceptibilities ! 
At last , my dear Louisa , the charm is broken : the spell of silence is dissolved . 
In the morning at breakfast , Frank took the cakes I usually eat to hand to me ; and Clifton , whose watchful spirit is ever alert , caught up a plate of bread and butter , to offer me at the same instant . 
At last the principle of not encouraging Frank prevailed , and I took some bread and butter from Clifton . 
Clifton heard me , and Frank was unexpectedly at my elbow . 
Clifton called -- `` Here am I , ready , fair lady , to execute your behests . '' 
Frank retired ; but Clifton advanced , with his usual gaiety , answering , -- `` Nay , nay ! 
I would still have refused , but I perceived Clifton began to look serious , and I said to him -- `` Well , well , good man , here then , take this snuff-box to the marchioness , she may want it : but do not blunder , and break it ; for if you do I shall dismiss you my service . 
-- But surely , madam , justice is as much my due as if my name were Clifton . 
Clifton came up , and I have no doubt read in our countenances that something more than common had passed . 
Indeed I perceived it , or thought so ; but his imagination took another turn , in consequence of my informing him , that I had been just telling Frank I had promised myself to be his -LRB- Clifton 's -RRB- partner . 
-LSB- You , Louisa , know how very far from exceptionable the person of Frank is , if that were any part of the question . -RSB- 
-LSB- The tears , Louisa , were streaming down my cheeks . -RSB- 
Louisa ! 
-- I can not possibly be deceived in supposing it a duty , an indispensable duty to restore the mind of Clifton to its true station . 
I am but young , yet many men have addressed me with the common-place language of admiration , love , and I know not what ; or rather they knew not what ; and , except yourself , Frank , I have not met with one from whom half so much might be hoped as from Clifton . 
Clifton is haughty and intemperate . 
Here , Louisa , our conversation abruptly ended . 
Louisa , with what sensations did he leave my mind glowing ! 
Then the kiss , Louisa ? 
To the destruction of hope has been added the assault of insolence , accompanied with a portion of obloquy which heart scarcely can sustain -- Oh , this Clifton ! 
But once again this Clifton ! 
Indeed , Louisa , his fortitude is admirable ! 
In the mean time , I have been indulging a hope , which at moments has appeared almost a certainty , that Clifton , by our mutual efforts , shall acquire all this true ardour , which is so lovely in Frank . 
How sorry am I to observe that the haughtiness of Clifton and the coldness of Frank seem to be increasing ! 
Clifton is not pleased , and the Count and he have fallen into a habit of rallying each other , and vaunting of what lovers dare do , to prove their affection . 
Their irony took so serious a turn , yesterday , that Clifton proposed they should load their pistols , and both holding by the corner of a handkerchief , fire at each other . 
The Count laughed , and Clifton I should hope was not displeased that it was impossible the conversation should again assume the same desperate and absurd tone . 
Louisa , what a world is this ! 
But so I am , and Louisa will forgive me . 
Aided and encouraged by your dear and worthy mother , we have often discoursed on these things , Louisa : and the common accidents of life , as well as those peculiar to myself , render such conversations sweet to recollection . 
I know not , Louisa , how to begin ! 
Clifton is strangely rash ! 
In my last , I mentioned the strange defiance of the pistols and the handkerchief : and would you think , Louisa , a conversation so frantic could be renewed ? 
The Count and Clifton were before : I , Frank Henley , and a party of ladies and gentlemen were following at a little distance , but not near enough to hear the conversation that was passing between your brother and the Count . 
The headlong Clifton , utterly despising the pretended admiration of what he was persuaded the Count durst in no manner imitate , after some sarcastic expressions of his contempt , madly but seriously asked the Count if he durst jump off the rock into the lake , to prove his own courage . 
Imagine , Louisa , if you can , the shock I received when , not knowing what had passed , but in an apparent fit of frenzy , I saw him desperately rush to the side of the rock , and dash himself headlong down into the water ! 
-- They saw Clifton , after rising to the surface , sink ! 
Indeed , Louisa , it excites horror to look at the place ! 
He plunged down what might well be called an abyss ; and , after rising for a few seconds to breathe , dived again in search of poor Clifton . 
To all appearance Clifton was lifeless ! 
If you think , Louisa , that after this I can add nothing in praise of Frank you are greatly mistaken ; for what is to come raises his character almost to an enviable dignity . 
-- If , Louisa , there be one being upon earth capable of attaining virtues more than human , it is surely Frank Henley ! 
Much praise however , as well as blame , is justly due to Clifton . 
Frank , uniform in generosity , disclaims any superiority , and affirms Clifton would have done the same , had he been in the same danger . 
I think I would , answered Clifton , in a tone that shewed he felt what he spoke : but I know myself too well to suppose I should have so unremittingly persevered , like you , in the performance of an office of humanity which seemed hopeless . 
Clifton says that , though he can not think like Frank -LSB- We hope to make him , Louisa . -RSB- 
So fine a youth , so accomplished , so brave , the brother of my Louisa , brought to Paris to meet an untimely death ! 
His anxiety , as might well be expected from such a temper , was excessive , while Clifton was in danger : but he seems to repent now , that he did not follow the mad example . 
The recollection of a temper so rash as Clifton 's preys upon me . 
No , Louisa . 
Clifton shall be ours -- Shall be ! 
-- Shall be the brother of Louisa , the friend of Frank , and the better part of Anna . 
Nay if she do not feel a certainty of success , let me intreat , let me admonish her to desist , before it be too late ; and before further encouragement shall seem to authorize the presuming Clifton , for presuming I am convinced he will be , to found claims upon her kindness . 
There is one sentence in my letter which makes me likewise wish that Clifton should know I have requested Frank would permit him to see what I have written ; otherwise that sentence might very probably by him be misinterpreted . 
The strange incident of Clifton excited much conversation , in which my name and his were frequently joined . 
Clifton has entirely altered his behaviour to Frank ; he now treats him with unaffected freedom and respect . 
Would you think , Louisa , that I sometimes suffer myself to be surprised into fears ; and that I then find myself ready to retract , or at least questioning whether I ought to proceed . 
If I have any doubts of myself , if I am not certain of producing those effects on the mind of Clifton which I know I ought to be able to produce , it becomes me to recede . 
At others I have even doubted whether I were not more actuated by an affection for my Louisa , than by a sense of incumbent duty . 
Clifton has from the beginning been a great favourite with Sir Arthur . 
My uncle , Lord Fitz-Allen , is at present in Paris , on his return from Switzerland , and Clifton has been introduced to him by his kinsman , Lord Evelyn , who is making a short excursion to the south of France . 
I approve the reasoning in your postscript , will shew it to Frank , and will ask him to let me and Clifton see the letters , who shall likewise know it is by your desire . 
I was going to reply , but my enterprising gentleman -- -LSB- Indeed , Louisa , your brother is a bold youth -RSB- -- snatched an unexpected embrace , with more eagerness than fear , and then fell on one knee , making such a piteous face for forgiveness , so whimsical , and indeed I may say witty , that it was impossible to be serious . 
And now , after reviewing what has passed , tell me , Louisa , ought I to recede ? 
Must not the reiteration of truth make its due impression , upon a mind like Clifton 's ? 
I must not forget to tell you that Frank readily complied with your request , and Clifton has seen the letters . 
Frank 's opinions appear to Clifton to be equally novel with mine ; and must be well understood , to escape being treated with mockery . 
That identical Clifton ; that bold , gay , spirited fellow , who has so often vaunted of and been admired for his daring ! 
The time will come , or say my name is not Clifton . 
My sister , Louisa , does not scruple to tell him so , in her letter ! 
I have proved to Clifton that it was not fear which made me submit to obloquy , which in his opinion could only be washed away in blood . 
The too haughty Clifton , angry that he should dare to address her to whom he openly paid his court , fell into habitual contests with him , daring him to shew who could be most desperate , and at last gave a tolerably strong proof that , though he has an infinitely more consistent mind , he can be at moments more mad than the count himself . 
Luckily Clifton was out for the day . 
I am hourly put to the trial , Oliver , of seeing him preferred -- But -- Pshaw -- After a torrent of crazy compliments from the count , who professes to admire me , I learned at last it was Clifton and not me he wanted ; and I also learned in part what was the purport of his errand . 
Clifton . 
To mention this dialogue to Clifton might be dangerous . 
The count has been here ; his errand was to Clifton . 
What strange perversity of accidents is it , Louisa , that has made me most deeply indebted to that man , above all others on the face of the earth , who thinks I have treated him unjustly ? 
Sir Arthur would willingly have retreated ; but Clifton was too impatient , and prevailed on him to venture . 
Frank and Sir Arthur were desirous that we should not be imposed upon ; but Clifton pleaded my sea sickness , and would not listen to any proposal of delay . 
We were not above a mile from shore : Clifton however agreed to their extravagant demand , and we went into the boat . 
Clifton and Frank endeavoured to make them attentive , by reproving them ; and probably did some good ; though the answers they received , in the rugged vulgar idiom of the sea , were not very conciliatory . 
One of those poor drunken creatures , Louisa , was in an instant washed overboard and lost ; almost without a cry ; not heard , not aided , scarcely remarked ; no attempt made to save him , for all attempt was absolutely impossible : we were within a few yards of land , yet were ourselves almost certain of perishing . 
-- Indeed , Louisa , it was dreadful ! 
Clifton was there in an instant . 
After which Clifton , leaving the helm , jumped into the water , the servants having gone before , and we all found ourselves safe , after some of us had concluded we were lost beyond redemption . 
Clifton , though he did not so immediately perceive what was best to be done , saw the propriety of it when doing , and immediately assented , and aided , by keeping the boat in the position Frank directed , almost as essentially as his coadjutor . 
Clifton now avoids argument , and appears systematically determined to be of my opinion ; or rather to say as I say . 
Clifton will not long suffer me to rest , now we are returned ; and consequently my dear Louisa may soon expect another letter from her most affectionate A. W. ST. IVES . 
Consequently , not to tell what has passed to Clifton is acting according to the dictates of truth : for , to tell would be to run an imminent danger of false conclusions . 
Thou never knewest so enterprising , so encroaching a youth as this Clifton ! 
It is not passion , not love , such as it is usually felt and expressed ; it is a sense of duty , friendship for Louisa , admiration of great talents , an ardent desire to give those talents their full value , and the dignified pride she takes in restoring such a mind to its proper rank . 
For , in reality , to have withheld it would have had more the appearance of a coquette than of the friend of my Louisa . 
After sufficiently strong hints in the course of the two first days , on the third after our arrival , Clifton came . 
Our conversation however was long ; and when at last obliged to enter into the subject , the acuteness and depth of his remarks were strong proof of his powers , had any proof been wanting -- Yes , Louisa , the attempt must be made . 
-- Oh , Louisa ! 
I must now be more than ever determined to accomplish the task I have undertaken ; and to give to the arms of my best , my dearest Louisa , a brother worthy of a heart so pure , and a sister such as she herself could wish to be that brother 's other half -- Very true , Louisa ! 
Clifton was pleased to find himself treated with undisguised sincerity . 
Yes , Louisa , fear not : you will find him your brother , in virtue as well as in blood . 
As I remember , dear madam , this was the sum which you said was necessary , to redeem certain mortgages , pay off encumbrances , and enable Mr. Clifton to appear in England , in a manner becoming the heir of the Clifton family . 
Why what the devil is the English of all this , say you , Clifton ? 
But , as my son means never to marry , and as the families of Clifton and St. Ives are to be united in one , I have no doubt , some time or another before I die , of seeing every thing retrieved ; though I grant there are heavy mortgages , and other impediments to overcome . 
I must write , dear Louisa . 
Not but I have a little incident to relate , which interests us both ; the Dramatis Personæ being , as usual , Clifton , Frank Henley , and the friend of my Louisa . 
But I ought to premise , that I am sorry to see Clifton again looking on Frank Henley with uneasiness , and a kind of suspicion that might almost be called jealousy . 
Having consulted Sir Arthur , I mentioned it , as a pleasant excursion , to Clifton ; and added , as soon as Frank Henley should come , I would desire him to hold himself in readiness . 
Sir Arthur was present ; and Clifton , in a pouting kind of manner , whispered me -- `` Can we never go any where , without that young fellow dogging us at the heels ? '' 
Clifton began to sing Britons strike home ; which he soon changed to Rule Britannia : sure tokens that he was not pleased ; for these are the tunes with which he always sings away his volatile choler . 
Clifton endeavoured to pout ; but , as I did not in the least change my good humour , knowing how necessary it was rather to increase than diminish it , he could not long hold out , and soon became as cheerful and as good company as usual ; and his flow of spirits , and whimsical combinations , are very exhilarating . 
But she called in Clifton , to be her auxiliary ; and he fell into the same pettish , half-haughty , half-contemning kind of manner , in which he had so improperly indulged , previous to the accident of the lake , in France . 
I was particularly cautious to say as little to Frank as I could , purposely that Clifton might have no retort upon me ; though a part of my plan is to accustom him to see me just to the merits of Frank , without indulging any unworthy suspicions . 
We returned to town , and I purposed , when Clifton should come to pay me his morning visit next day , to read him a gentle lecture . 
Equal , nay I have sometimes even thought superior , to Louisa herself ! 
Thus , dear Louisa , you perceive , we do not perhaps make quite so swift a progress as we could wish : but we must be satisfied . 
I can only say , dear Louisa , it is not her who is most affectionately your A. W. ST. IVES . 
P.S. Clifton is quite successful with my relations : he has won the heart of my aunt . 
Once more , Louisa , we are the creatures that education has made us ; and consequently I hope we shall hereafter be wiser and better . 
They are even increased by the recollection that , in all probability , Clifton could now much less bear disappointment than the strong-minded and generous Frank . 
How Clifton will submit to it is to be seen . 
Mayhap Henley may be as good a name as Clifton . 
Madam Clifton wonnot a budge a finger , to the signin and sealin of her gratification of applause , whereby as if so be as that the kole a be not a forth cummin , down on the nail head . 
Of course thou wilt tell me if thou seest any reason , which I have not discovered , why I ought to communicate the contents of his letter to Sir Arthur ; whom he vaunts of having in his power , and whom he is determined not to supply with money , for the projected marriage with Clifton . 
I write , at present , to my dear Louisa , that by writing I may divert the perturbation of my mind . 
The impassioned heart , Louisa , will sometimes rebel against the cold apathy of reason ; but such revolt is but of short duration . -RSB- 
Our conversation was here interrupted , Louisa , by a letter brought me from my brother . 
Clifton has just been with me . 
But why , Louisa , should you suppose it necessary to justify the conduct of Mrs. Clifton to me ? 
-- -LSB- Remember , Louisa , I am imitating this man 's language , as delivered by Frank ; though I believe my memory is tolerably correct . -RSB- 
Here , therefore , my dear Louisa , I must pause ; and once again subscribe myself , most affectionately , A. W. ST. IVES . 
P. S. I have reason to believe that Clifton is more seriously offended than I ever knew him before . 
Is it not a pity , Louisa , that so much courage and ability should be perverted to such vile ends ? 
Clifton kept away all the evening ; however , after hearing the whole story , he was obliged to acknowledge that , let his other qualities be what they would , he could not have been so successful as Frank in this affair ; because he could have known nothing of Mr. Mac Fane . 
If I not note her freaks , if I forget her imperious caprice , if my embittered mind slumber in its intents , say not I am the proudspirited Clifton you once knew ; that prompt , bold , and inflexible fellow , whom arrogance could rouse , and injury inflame , but a suffering , patient ass ; a meek pitiful thing , such as they would make me ! 
The anger of Clifton is softened into approbation . 
The passions , Louisa , however disturbed , are always cunning . 
What latent inconsistency is there , Louisa , in my conduct , which can incite the alarms to which I feel myself subject ? 
Clifton left me ; and , being gone , I went into the parlour . 
-- -LSB- Had you heard the sigh he gave , Louisa -- ! -RSB- 
The recollection of what had just passed with Clifton forced itself upon me , Louisa ; it made me desirous of putting a question to Frank on the subject , and I asked -- What is your opinion of promises ? 
Some glimpse of this truth , for I perceive it to be one , had shot across my mind ; but not with the perspicuity of your proposition -- I am inclined to be a rude interrogator : I have another question to ask -LSB- He bowed -RSB- -- I own you are seldom wrong , and yet I hope -- -LSB- I remember , Louisa , that I gave a deep sigh here ; and it must not be concealed -RSB- -- I hope that you have been wrong , once in your life . 
-LSB- He instantly understood me -- Had you seen his look , Louisa -- ! -RSB- 
I could not bear it , Louisa . 
Either I mistake myself , or even now , situated as I am , I could rejoice were there a certainty , nay were there but strong probabilities , that her favourite purpose on Clifton should be effected . 
Whereby this marriage match with the Clifton family , had my oar bin asked , would never a bin of my advizin . 
I have had a scene with Frank , which affected me much , and which has occasioned another quarrel , or kind of a quarrel , with Clifton . 
I have nothing , madam , said he , to hope from Sir Arthur : but to you I have a request to make , which you would greatly oblige me should you grant -- I trembled , Louisa . 
-- Again , Louisa , he almost struck me to the heart ! 
Could you think it , Louisa ? 
Clifton came and looked over my shoulder . 
I could perceive the eyes of Clifton sparkle with emotion ; I might almost say rage . 
Clifton ! 
Less impetuosity , Clifton ; less raptures , and more reason . 
Here , Louisa , once again I left him , with struggles apparently more acute than the former . 
And who is so capable of being my judge , or who so anxious I should not err , as my dear Louisa , my friend , my sister ? 
-- Surely , Louisa , we are not all so -- Heaven forbid ! 
Indeed , Louisa , I begin to fear I have vaunted of powers I do not possess ; and prescribed to myself duties too dignified , too mighty for me -- And must I abandon an enterprise I deemed so noble ? 
-- I have meditated on it , Louisa , till I could weep -- I will not yet despair . 
Clifton will soon be here . 
-- I saw a noble quality exerted , and thought it was but to wish and to have , to imitate and to succeed -- The brother of my Louisa ! 
There must be some cause for my failure , if I fail -- With true simplicity of heart I can say , most earnestly do I wish to do right : most ardently would I endeavour to prove myself a friend worthy of Louisa Clifton , and of Frank Henley ! 
The servant has told me Clifton is below . 
When last my Louisa heard from me , my mind was depressed . 
I found Clifton in the parlour . 
-LSB- I never before , Louisa , saw your brother look or speak with such firmness . -RSB- 
Here , Louisa , our conversation ended . 
Before you proceed with my letter , Fairfax , read the inclosed paperA copy given by Anna to Clifton , as she had promised him , of all that she had said in her last conversation . 
-- Sins against love , against Clifton ! 
Tell me , Clifton , of her amorous debates with such a fellow ? 
Is it not worthy of the sapient Doctor Clifton ? 
A fortnight has almost elapsed since I last wrote to my Louisa , till my heart begins to cry shame at the delay . 
Oh , Louisa , how exquisite is the pleasure I feel , to see him thus determined , thus incessant in his pursuit ! 
This is his own language , Louisa ! 
Louisa , I still `` am his by right . '' 
Surely , Louisa , I may do him justice ? 
Pardon , Louisa , these wanderings of the mind ! 
Observe , Louisa , that Clifton and Frank were the chief speakers . 
-LSB- We paused -- I own , Louisa , I found myself at a loss ; but Frank soon gave a very satisfactory reply . -RSB- 
Clifton addressed himself to me -- What say you to this doctrine , madam ? 
Tell me , my dear Louisa , are you not delighted with this dialogue ; and with the candour , the force of thinking , and what is still better the virtuous fears of your brother ? 
-- Let Clifton but proceed and Frank will no longer say -- `` To the end of time '' -- ! 
You know the rest , Louisa -- All good be with you ! 
Thus justly , Louisa , did he continue to reason . 
I am sorry , my dear Louisa , to hear that the infirmities of Mrs. Clifton increase . 
If my fears have any foundation , this Clifton is the deepest , the most hardened fiend-like hypocrite imagination can paint ! 
Though I had before conceived the design , this conduct has even been suggested to me by Clifton ; and in a mode that proves he can be artful if he please . 
Clifton '' -- She speaks ! 
Clifton , daily and hourly do I bless this happy accident , this delay ! 
Are not even the most tragical consequences to be feared from an opposition to Clifton ? 
Did I but better understand this Clifton , I should better know how to decide . 
As far as I understand the human mind , there is and even should he persevere there always must be something to me enigmatical in this instance of its efforts in Clifton . 
Clifton has just been with me . 
Louisa , what are we ? 
My father was in part the occasion : for a moment he made me forget myself -- Louisa ! 
-- I -- Louisa ! 
Clifton after an apology asked -- Does it relate to me ? 
Clifton like myself could not conquer the first assault of passion : he pronounced the word madam ! 
Your brother , Louisa , made an effort worthy of himself , repressed the error of his first feelings , assumed the gentle aspect of entreaty , and kindly joined me . 
This , Louisa , brought on a long discussion . 
Indeed , Louisa , this affair lies very heavily upon my mind . 
It would be more flagrant injustice than even the wrong to Frank , if a wrong it be , and indeed , Louisa , I dread it is ! 
He is gone , Louisa ; has left us ; his purpose unchanged , his heart oppressed , and his mind intent on promoting the happiness of those by whom he is exiled . 
Louisa , my mind is greatly disturbed . 
Even my Louisa , the warm friend of my heart , can not determine in my favour . 
You may well imagine , Louisa , he did not read it with total apathy . 
He would not say -- -LSB- His candour delighted me , Louisa . -RSB- 
Plead our cause , Louisa : urge him to remain among us . 
The open encouragement that he himself has given to Clifton is one , and it is strengthened by all the interest of the other branches of our family . 
My aunt Wenbourne equally approves the match , and Clifton and my brother Edward are become intimate . 
Louisa , I scarcely know what I write ! 
Like wizards of yore , they must render me invisible ; and the fair form of the foolish Clifton they have imagined must only be seen . 
Oh , Clifton ! 
Nay , Clifton -- Hear me , madam ! 
Clifton , you said you had a nobler motive . 
Clifton ! 
Louisa ! 
-- My dear , my kind , my affectionate Louisa ! 
Louisa , my heart bleeds to say it , but his purposes were vile , his hypocrisy odious , and -- I must forbear , and speak of foul deeds in fair terms . 
He came to me , Louisa , and began with painting the torments of delay and the pangs of jealousy , which he endeavoured to excuse ; and concluded with a bold appeal to my justice ; a daring , over-awing , confounding appeal . 
-- Demanded , Louisa ! 
Think , Louisa , what must be the effect of such a letter , coming at such a moment ! 
-- I believe I was in no danger ; though , if there be a man on the face of the earth more dangerous than any other , it is surely Clifton . 
Louisa , how shall I describe my anguish of heart at seeing all those hopes of a mind so extraordinary , for extraordinary it is even in guilt , at once overthrown ? 
How be certain that the next seeming virtuous man we meet is not a -- Well , well , Louisa -- I will remember -- Brother . 
My Louisa knows it is not from the person , but from the vice that I turn away with disgust . 
Would I willingly give her heart a pang ? 
Let her tell me if she can suspect it . 
She has fortitude , she has affection ; but it is an affection for virtue , truth , and justice . 
She will endeavour to reform error the most obdurate . 
But she will not wish me either to marry with or to countenance this error . 
His reasoning was just ; seduction would have been a petty injury , or rather a blessing , compared to this master evil ! 
You may think , Louisa , how hard he had ridden ; but he refused to imagine himself fatigued . 
A letter , not of Clifton 's writing , but of his invention and sending ! 
Finding that Frank was likely to prevail on his father to raise the money for Sir Arthur , and obviate all further impediments to our marriage , Clifton , fearful that it should take place , wrote anonymously to Abimelech , to inform him I was in love with Frank , and to encourage him to persist . 
If such a letter be his , I am sure , Louisa , you will not say I have thought or spoken too unkindly of him ; and that it is his we have indubitable proof , though it was anonymous and not in his hand-writing . 
You no doubt remember , Louisa , the short story of the English lad , whom your brother hired at Paris . 
He brought the letter up with him , for he would not trust it out of his own custody , and immediately went himself to Clifton 's stables in search of the lad , brought him to me , and then first shewed him the letter , which that no possible collusion might be alleged he had left in my keeping , and then asked if it were not his handwriting . 
The lad very frankly and unhesitatingly answered it was ; except the direction , which this plotting Clifton had procured to be written by some other person . 
And now what shall I say to my Louisa ? 
But I know my Louisa ; she will never be impatient under trial , however severe ; nor foolishly repine for the past , though she will strenuously labour for the future . 
No ; I will not attempt to console my Louisa , for I will not suppose even at the present moment that she yields to grief , or is in need of consolation . 
These are truths too deeply engraven on the heart of Louisa to be forgotten , and it is scarcely necessary to revive them even at this serious moment . 
Such , Louisa , has been our intercourse ; and we have mutual reason to congratulate each other on its effects . 
Louisa , I must tell you the truth and the whole truth . 
His tenderness and ecstasy , and indeed , Louisa , they were both very strong were mingled with regret equally vivid : and Mr. Clifton ! 
Oh that I could write to my Louisa as formerly , with flattering and generous hopes in favour of a brother ! 
He went the very day on which your brother left London , to be present with you at Mrs. Clifton 's funeral ; and Clifton now denies , with pretended indignation , having had any knowledge whatever of this letter ! 
After apologies for dropping in and disturbing so much good company , and a repetition of -- I am very glad to see you , sir ; you do my table honour , and other like marked compliments from Lord Fitz-Allen , Clifton seated himself and endeavoured to assume his former gaiety and humour . 
Clifton indeed evidently laid himself out to please the whole table ; but me least , because with me he had least hope ; and because he found his efforts produced no alteration in that uniform seriousness on which I had determined . 
You know , Miss St. Ives , that an alliance with the family of Clifton has always met my approbation ; and I suppose you will not deny me the favour of listening with patience -- Why do n't you speak , niece ? 
Clifton after some stammering hesitation began -- I know , madam , you have been prejudiced against me , and have been told very strange things ; very unaccountable things . 
Louisa -- ! 
-- He stabbed me to the heart , Louisa ! 
The tone of this lordly uncle was so high , Louisa , and his passions so arrogant , loud , and obstinate , that it was with difficulty I could recover the fortitude requisite to assert truth and put falsehood to the blush . 
Clifton perceived the feelings of the company turn upon him with suspicion ; but his art , must I add ? 
Had you beheld this uncle of mine , Louisa ! 
I do not find myself , Louisa , disposed to stand in that dread of baseness and violence which they generally inspire . 
Adieu , dear Louisa . 
In the presence of witnesses I feel I can not succeed ; but singly , face to face , passion to passion , and being to being , distinct and eminent as she stands above all woman-kind , I will yet prove to her she is not the equal of the man Clifton . 
Will glut my revenge , and do the deed that shall prevent their ever meeting more , except perhaps to reproach each other with the madness of having injured , aggravated , and defied a Clifton ! 
The old miser -LSB- Well , Louisa , let it be the old gentleman -RSB- is so eager in pursuit of his project that he can take no rest , and is unwilling Sir Arthur should take any . 
Your own heart , Louisa , will tell you what Frank 's feelings were at such a mean menace ; and , though to stop his garrulity entirely was not in the power of man , he determined to silence him on that subject . 
Thus , Louisa , things are at present in a train which some months ago I should indeed very little have expected . 
We have the most charming walks and the most delightful conversations , Louisa ; and on subjects so expansive , so sublime -- ! 
Yes , Louisa , we shall meet , and I hope quickly ! 
But ah , Louisa , how different are the views of this worthy , this heavenly-gifted son ! 
May the fates grant my Louisa just such another ! 
You do not think , Louisa , no I am sure you can not think that all the ardour I felt for the recovery of a mind like Mr. Clifton 's is lost . 
Neither , Oliver , are all our hopes of Clifton lost . 
It relates to Clifton . 
I saw no more of Clifton . 
'T is true that conjectures disadvantageous to Clifton have , when Anna and I were considering this incident , intruded themselves forcibly upon us : but they were only conjectures , and I hope ill founded . 
Indeed they are improbable ; for Clifton could not knowingly league himself with a man like Mac Fane , except for purposes too black or too desperate for even passions so violent as his to entertain . 
But I think Clifton could not make himself the associate of Mac Fane ! 
The embrace of a Clifton she might perhaps pardon ; but this violation she never can ! 
Where I am , what is to become of me , or whether I am ever to see my Louisa more , are things of which I am utterly ignorant . 
This vile Clifton -- -LSB- Surely I ought never again to call him my Louisa 's brother -RSB- -- This perverse man has grown desperate in error ! 
She had seen me writing , and , without being spoken to , took upon her to suppose it was a letter to my Louisa , and told me she did believe she could get it conveyed to the post . 
If contrary to all expectation this should come to hand , Louisa , write to my father ; inform him of all you know : and especially write to Mr. Clifton . 
But I know too well Mr Clifton dare not permit him to be at liberty , while he keeps me confined . 
I know not , Louisa , whether I am addressing myself to you or him ; but Frank Henley at the time that I was seized , and he likewise as I suppose , had bank-bills in his possession to the amount of eight thousand pounds ! 
Frank Henley , the preserver of Clifton , the preceptor of truth , and the friend of man ; the benevolent , magnanimous , noble-minded Frank , whose actions were uniform in goodness , whose heart was all affection , and whose soul all light -- and murdered ! 
Pardon , Louisa ! 
Too well I know my friend to doubt her ! 
No cold delay , no unfeeling negligence , no rash phrensy is to be feared from her ! 
What I am writing she will never read ! 
Ignorant perhaps of the cause , my Louisa is at this moment accusing me of a neglect which my heart disavows . 
If my handkerchief do but drop I start ; and the stirring of a mouse places Clifton full before me . 
Louisa , I will steel my soul to meet him ! 
Nor thou , Louisa ! 
I then heard her begin to pant and heave for breath -- After a few seconds she exclaimed -- Clifton ! 
-- Mark me , Clifton : I fear you not ! 
Indeed , madam , you do not know the danger -- Mimic benevolence and virtue no more , Clifton ! 
You mistake , Clifton ! 
Clifton beware ! 
-- Bethink you , Clifton ! 
-- But you can not be so guilty , Clifton ! 
-- Oh , Clifton ! 
Shall they mount the dunghill of their vanity , clap their wings , and exult , as if they too had conquered a Clifton ? 
-- Can you , Clifton , dare you be thus wicked ? 
-- Clifton ! 
-- Clifton , once again I say , remember the untainted benevolence of her soul ! 
I have been reading Louisa 's letter again : it is full of pathos . 
Mac Fane answered he would silence Clifton ; of whom his favourite phrase was that `` He should soon do him ! '' 
Clifton would in reality be an accessary before the fact , and therefore obliged to silence . 
Clifton at last may see how very foul is folly , and turn to wisdom ! 
You and I , Louisa , have often discoursed on the excellence of active courage , and the much greater efforts of which both sexes are capable than either of them imagine . 
I think there can be little doubt but that my Louisa is long before this in Grosvenor-Street . 
-- Oh , Louisa , I am seized with terror ! 
For this purpose , I inclose the narrative written by Mr. Henley during his confinement ; and three letters addressed to my friend , Louisa , but never sent ; with a copy of a letter dictated by Mr. Clifton to his friend , Mr. Fairfax . 
You know , madam , with what activity my dear Louisa exerted herself , and employed every expedient in her power . 
The intelligence was immediately brought to Louisa and Sir Arthur , and application as immediately made to the magistracy . 
-- Let them equal me if they can -- I am Clifton ! 
Louisa had described the state of his mind , and I resolved to catch its tone , that I might the more certainly command his attention . 
-- -LRB- Louisa at this moment entered . -RRB- 
replied Louisa , eagerly . 
