Passing through the thick walls which divide the rooms of Brother Caleb 's house , let us enter yonder large chamber , on the first floor , where the light of wax candles falls upon the faces of Brother Caleb and his midnight guests . 
Lift the curtain then , and let us take a hasty glance at Brother Caleb and his guests . 
Brother Caleb sat at the head of the table , stark and grim in his blue coat and snow-white vest . 
And Brother Caleb 's protruding eyes , lighted with faint lustre , as he surveyed the faces of his midnight guests . 
said Brother Caleb , and his eyes ran along the line of wax lights , which shone dimly upon the faces of his guests . 
`` Capital , '' said Dicky Bung , making a desperate effort to fill his glass . 
`` Good , very good , '' said the lean Quaker , trying to look steadily at the candle before him . 
asked Brother Caleb , from the head of the table . 
`` I will not argue with you , my dear Madam , as to a First Cause , '' said Brother Caleb , while his thin lips were agitated by a smile -- `` But you must not deny the existence of a Devil . 
said Brother Caleb , turning to a portly gentleman by his side -- `` You are connected with the police department of this great city . 
`` Here is the plan , '' murmured Brother Caleb fixing his large blue eyes on the sheet of parchment : `` And here are thirty names each signed opposite from fifty to a hundred shares . 
`` I am now in treaty for it , '' replied Brother Caleb . 
`` Really you are a philosopher , '' smiled Brother Caleb -- smiled all over his pyramidal face , from his square chin to his flat crown -- `` But there is no danger of failure . 
and Brother Caleb rose from his seat . 
His tall lean form , attired in the blue coat and white vest , was strongly relieved by the dark mahogany of the folding doors at his back . 
His singular face , with its hollow cheeks and great blue eyes , protruding from their sockets , attracted even the drunken gaze of the midnight guests . 
For a moment he surveyed the company , who were gathered in that spacious and luxurious chamber . 
His thin lips were agitated by a peculiar smile . 
The dull surface of his blue eyes flashed with momentary light . 
Brother Caleb smiled pleasantly , uttered some colloquial compliment , and then exclaimed in a voice that reached every ear : `` That specimen of the Squashahogany Copper ore is up-stairs . 
Twenty voices and more excused him , and Brother Caleb opened the folding doors and disappeared into the next room . 
No sooner had the door closed behind the tall form of Brother Caleb , than the thirty original stockholders of the Squashanogany Copper Mining Company commenced an irregular and whispering conversation , concerning their mysterious President . 
Stepping across the threshold , Brother Caleb closed the folding doors behind him , and approached a table on which a small lamp was burning . 
As Brother Caleb extended his hand to grasp the lamp , his singular face was displayed in strong light and deep shadow . 
What was the nature of the thought which gave such a marked expression to his lips and eyes ? 
`` I will get the copper ore , '' he soliloquized , `` and they will bring me the gold dust . '' 
`` Mister Goodleigh , I 'm a Poleese Officer , '' said a voice , and a hand was laid on Brother Caleb 's arm . 
You may well imagine that this voice , breaking abruptly from the dead stillness , startled even the firm nerves of Brother Caleb into a tremor . 
he said , as he turned and saw the full-moon face of Stewel Pydgeon at his shoulder . 
Brother Caleb fairly started with surprise . 
he echoed -- and then recovering his composure , as his lean form was elevated with an air of dignity ; `` I am at a loss to understand your allusions , Mr. Pydgeon . '' 
ejaculated Brother Caleb . 
Stewel inserted his thumbs in the arm-holes of his waistcoat : `` Why , I 'm a poleese offisser . 
`` I do not , '' said Brother Caleb , opening his his eyes to the utmost tension of their lids . 
ejaculated Stewel , and the light slipped from his hand and fell upon the table . 
said Brother Caleb eagerly . 
-- Caleb grasped the lamp , while his face betrayed violent agitation . 
At once , Brother Caleb , light in hand , led the way from the room . 
In a second , he was passing along the wide entry , with Stewel following at his heels . 
Brother Caleb 's face displayed considerable anxiety , while Stewel 's was agitated by a succession of singular contortions . 
Brother Caleb ascended the wide stairway without a word . 
Brother Caleb led the way along the passage , whose floor was covered with a thick carpet . 
In a moment , he stood at the door of the small chamber . 
Stewel remarked that his hand trembled , as it enconntered the silver knob . 
`` I hear no sound , '' whispered Caleb -- `` all is still . 
Brother Caleb opened the door , and his light flashed over the walls of the small chamber . 
Stewel caught a glimpse of Brother Caleb 's face . 
he ejaculated , `` ruined , by -- ! '' 
cried Brother Caleb , wildly waving his right hand : `` Do not lose a minute ! 
He pointed toward the door . 
Leaving him alone , Stewel left the small apartment , and hurried toward the room at the head of the stairs . 
The short time which elapsed during his absence seemed an age to Brother Caleb . 
he ejaculated , his blue eyes flashing with a manic 's glance ; `` Ah ! 
Stewel crossed the threshold as the last word fell from his lips . 
He approached Brother Caleb without speaking , his hands in his pockets and and his nether lip between his teeth . 
There was a singular vacancy in his glance ; he looked very much like a man who is just one minute too late for the steamboat . 
gasped Caleb . 
shouted Brother Caleb , making a dash at Stewel 's red cravat : `` What have you done ? 
`` If I understand you right , '' slowly remarked Brother Caleb , `` your police came here in company with the two robbers , as robbers ? 
This threat , made with due emphasis , did not seem to frighten Stewel quite out of his senses . 
These words seemed to have made an impression on Brother Caleb . 
Shaking in every gaunt limb with agitation , he passed his hand over his brow , and for a moment , seemed buried in thought . 
`` Bring me that box before to-morrow night , '' he said , raising his head , `` and I will give all the money which it contains . 
Stewel started back as though he had been shot . 
he echoed , and then relapsing into thought , muttered to himself -- `` Mister Charles Augustus Milliken , I do wonder where you air about this time ! '' 
asked Brother Caleb with great eagerness . 
exclaimed Caleb , elevating his hand with a gesture of caution -- `` Voices in the entry yonder -- footsteps too ! 
This noise did not enter into his calculations . 
he muttered -- `` It ca n't be young Milliken a-tryin ' to get out o ' th ' house ? 
whispered Brother Caleb : `` Do you hear that ? '' 
Shading the light with one hand , Brother Caleb motioned with the other to Stewel , and Stewel accordingly crept quietly behind Brother Caleb . 
You may imagine the surprise which dilated Brother Caleb 's eyes , as he saw his friend , the Preacher , led blindfolded across the floor , by the hand of the very girl whom he had led from Church . 
Stewel , peeping over the shoulder of Brother Caleb , beheld the face of the girl , and cried with an oath -- `` A ghost , or my name 's not Stewel Pydgeon ! '' 
Advancing with a hurried step , Caleb laid his hand on the Preacher 's arm ; the girl did not seem to behold him . 
cried Brother Caleb . 
As he spoke , a form advanced from the background , a young man clad in a bearskin over-coat , with a fur cap drawn over his eyes . 
This matter does not concern you , '' said the young man , confronting Brother Caleb . 
And at the same moment , the young man 's arms were pinioned from behind , and the voice of Stewel was heard , as his round face appeared over the young man 's shoulder : `` Got him , Goodleigh ! 
`` Now , sir , '' said Caleb , `` will you have the goodness to name your accomplices , and to restore the tin box which you took from this desk ? '' 
Brother Caleb held the light , while Stewel urged the captive from the room , along the passage , and down the stairway . 
Brother Caleb held the light near his face , and whispered -- `` Restore the tin box , and you are free ! 
Brother Caleb answered him with an oath . 
`` Do not breathe a word about them before my guests , '' he whispered : `` they do not concern us , neither Jervis or the girl . 
The answer of Brother Caleb was soon given . 
`` Look at him , gentlemen , '' cried Brother Caleb , who seemed beside himself with rage : `` This fellow in the bearskin overcoat and fur cap , has entered my house at the head of a gang of burglars . 
He tore the fur cap away , and the face of Charles was disclosed . 
Caleb 's lean form , arrayed in the spotless white vest and faultless azure coat , with yellow buttons , towered over the heads of all his guests , as he advanced once more and confronted his prisoner . 
The light which Bung held disclosed Caleb 's face in strong relief . 
His blue eyes , bulging until they were on a line with the brow , and flashing with cold light over the hollows of individuality to his countenance . 
`` Stewel , '' said Caleb , turning his head over his shoulder , and seeking with his glance the face of the Police officer ; `` Take him to the Station House . '' 
Stewel waddled through the crowd `` Come , my lark , you 'll have to mosey , '' he began -- When the door was thrown open , and a stranger who puffed and blowed as with violent exercise , pushed through the crowd of guests , and stood face to face with the culprit . 
Saw your eye fixed upon our friend -LRB- he named the Popular Preacher , -RRB- and therefore I concluded that I might find you at Brother Caleb 's house , notwithstanding the lateness of the hour . 
-- -- puts up here , does n't he , Brother Goodleigh ? '' 
Brother Caleb alone was calm and smiling . 
`` Stewel , '' he whispered -- whispered in a tone audible to every ear : `` Remove these persons , the robber and his accomplice , to the nearest Station House . 
Turning to his guests , he continned : `` Come , my friends ; let us withdraw into the front room . 
The guests were turning away ; Stewel laid his hand upon the arm of the Home Missionary , whispering , `` Ai n't you ashamed o ' yourself , to go about robbin ' in the name o ' th ' Clergy ? 
Charles again besought Brother Caleb to hear him -- only for a moment -- but Brother Caleb treated him with silent contempt . 
Why was it that Brother Caleb turned suddenly on his heel ? 
Why was it that with a changed voice , and altered countenance , he besought the guests to excuse him for a moment ? 
`` Perhaps the fellow will confess , '' he said smiling : `` I do n't want the trouble of a public trial . 
Five minutes elapsed , while Brother Caleb and Charles Lester were closeted in close conversation in the front room . 
Brother Caleb appeared on the threshold , very pale , but with a smile upon his face . 
And Brother Caleb , by his right hand , held the hand of Charles Lester . 
`` Wait a few moments , '' whispered Charles to the Home Missionary , and then turning to Brother Caleb , he uttered two very simple but emphatic words : `` Now , sir . '' 
Brother Caleb without a word took a silver candlestick from the hands of Bung , and passed through the door-way leading into the hall , followed by Charles Lester . 
Along the entry , and up the stairs , passed Brother Caleb , light in hand , followed by Charles Lester . 
And as they stood at the door of the small chamber , in which , as you doubtless remember , stands the desk , Brother Caleb turned his face over his shoulder , and replied : `` I only cultivated the acquaintance of this Preacher in order to throw a gloss of sanctity over my life , '' he said with a laugh , in which there was also a tremor : `` But we will find him and the girl in the Painted Room . 
Brother Caleb uttered an oath as he beheld the desk by the light of his candle . 
Brother Caleb led the way into the passage which , lighted by a single window and adorned by a statue , connected the wing of the mansion with the main edifice . 
And , obedient as a school-boy at the command of his master , Brother Caleb parted the curtain and led the way into the Painted Chamber . 
There was a scowl upon his face , which he endeavored to cloak with a smile , as he held the candle above his head . 
`` There are four rooms on the third floor -- two on the second , beside this ; and then there is the garret , '' answered Brother Caleb , casting his eyes to the floor . 
Brother Caleb calmly arranged a button on his white vest . 
Brother Caleb smiled again and reached forth his hand , but Charles did not seem to remark the action . 
Caleb leading and Charles following -- of course -- they traversed all the chambers on the second floor . 
The light which Caleb held disclosed a range of apartments , furnished with every thing that wealth could buy , or a taste for luxury in its gaudiest extreme desire . 
`` When one is rich and a bachelor , one does not care for money , '' was the answer of Brother Caleb . 
said Charles , closely surveying Caleb 's visage as he awaited his reply . 
`` To a closet sunken in the walls , '' said Caleb quickly . 
Let us go below -- my guests will become uneasy at my absence -- '' He moved toward the door of the chamber , but Charles gently laid a hand upon his arm : `` Not so fast , '' he whispered . 
`` Caleb , I do not doubt your word , but I should like to examine the contents of that closet . 
This way if you please -- '' Brother Caleb 's face was contracted with an expression of doubt and hesitation . 
He seemed to be very much engaged in brushing away an imaginary speck from the surface of his spot less vest . 
As he held the candle above his head , the light fell strong upon his forehead , revealing its marked outline , and giving a sinister glare to his protruding eyeballs . 
`` There is nothing there , '' he said -- `` At least nothing worthy of your attention . 
Caleb with an air of deep mortification yielded the candlestick , and followed Charles toward the narrow door . 
Press your thumb against the panel , in the right corner , near the top '' -- as Brother Caleb whispered these words , he stood behind Lester , who of course did not remark the expression of Brother Caleb 's countenance . 
The light for a moment streamed over Brother Caleb 's face , through the narrow door , as he stood near the threshold , and then all was dark as midnight . 
Brother Caleb was alone in the darkness of the chamber . 
`` This trifling door is six inches thick , '' he exclaimed with a laugh which resounded harshly through the stillness : `` Four inches of iron , woven and welded together , and two inches wood . 
With this philosophical remark Caleb left the Chamber , and familiar with the windings of his mansion , descended toward the first floor . 
`` Ah , curses upon the stupidity of the Police Officer , '' he muttered , as he reached the head of the first stairway , from which branched the passage leading to the wing of the main building -- `` Lester indeed is cared for . 
Descending the stairs he hurried along the entry , and in a moment , stood in the midst of his guests again . 
There was an universal start as the voice of Caleb resounded suddenly , drowning the low tones of the good lady , `` La , Mr. Goodleigh , you quite take one 's breath , with your melo-dramatic surprises , '' said she with a mock-heroic gesture of terms -- `` But where did you leave the young man . '' 
This was all said in an off-hand conversational way , and at the last words he drew forth a massive gold watch from his vest pocket . 
This is rather strange -- '' The good man looked up inquiringly into Caleb 's face , as he stood holding his broad-rimmed hat in both hands `` Ah , you here yet ? '' 
cried Brother Caleb with a good humored chuckle -- `` Mr. Tomkins I believe ? '' 
He laid his hand on Mr. Mervyn 's shoulder in a friendly way , regarding him , at the same time , with a face that smiled in every feature . 
Brother Caleb kindly saw him to the door , observing as he was about to cross the threshold -- `` Keep an eye on Charles . 
This midnight supper party had not impressed him with the very highest notions of Brother Caleb 's decorum or morality . 
exclaimed Brother Caleb , noticing the absence of that distinguished personage for the first time . 
A sudden cloud came over Caleb 's visage . 
he cried in a tone of impatience . 
But Mrs. North was already making her adieux , and Brother Caleb presently followed all his guests to the door , where he wished them `` good night , good night ! '' 
Bung and Scissleby , last of all , toiled down the marble steps , Scissleby leaning all his weight upon his friend , and asking incessantly for the Steamer while the Dry Goods Man with a crushed hat and an aching shoulder , heartly wished Scissleby , the steamer and the Daily Copper to the -- dogs . 
`` That farce is over any how , '' was the remark of Brother Caleb , as he gazed from his doorway , down the wide street after the retreating forms of his guests . 
He closed the door , and was alone in that great mansion . 
His steps awoke no echo as he traversed the hall , and yet the very sound of his shoes upon the carpet impressed him with a sensation of loneliness akin to awe . 
He entered the room of the midnight supper . 
The candles were burning low ; the plate on the sideboard glimmered with a faint dull lustre ; the mirrors reflected the ungainly form of Brother Caleb , as he stood in the centre of the scene , his bright blue coat and white vest , only throwing his repulsive features into bolder relief . 
`` I am alone , '' he said , while his thick lips imparted in a smile : `` There is no spy in the shape of a servant to listen at the keyholes of my house . 
Talking aloud -- a habit acquired by persons who are much alone -- he strode up and down the splendid rooms , while the candles were burning fast toward their sockets . 
He surveyed his face in a mirror by the light of an expiring candle . 
He paused in his meditative walk . 
Brother Caleb smiled . 
His wide mouth made a gash in his sunken cheeks -- his eyes retreated within the protruding lids . 
Turning suddenly in his walk , he continued : `` Where 's the Preacher ? 
For Brother Caleb , pacing the length of both rooms , hands behind his back , and head sunken on his breast , was silent for a long time . 
A newspaper spread open on a chair , at last attracted him from his reverie . 
He took it up , and at a glance , saw that it was the Daily Copper of the previous day . 
The first paragraph that caught his eye was headed `` ANOTHER MYSTERIOUS DISAPPEARANCE . '' 
Brother Caleb sank languidly in a chair , and perused the paragraph with great satisfaction , remarking to himself : `` It is singular how many of these ` mysterious disappearances ' occur in this quiet City . 
Accordingly Brother Caleb laid down the paper and went leisurely up stairs to his bed chamber , in the second story of the splendid , but still desolate mansion . 
In the meantime , while he is sleeping soundly , let us ask , what has became of the Preacher and the Orphan Girl ? 
No , ragged savage , or else you would hurl the tin box to the ground , and mount to the window by the vine , and fight for the deliverance of your sister from Brother Caleb 's house , against all the Stewels and all the Masked Preachers in the world . 
Or , had Stewel , knowing his residence in Bonus Court , deliberately planned the robbery , and aided him in his escape from Brother Caleb 's House ? 
It is near daybreak , and the moon is shining brightly upon the broad front of Brother Caleb 's House . 
What has become of Lester 's hardy friend , who at midnight was watching there , anxious to do the bidding of Ellen 's Brother ? 
Brother Caleb 's House , with its shutters fast closed , from the first story to the roof , glows in the moonlight , but is silent as the grave . 
We will enter the door , step quietly along the broad entry , ascend the stairs , and pass into Brother Caleb 's room on the second floor . 
A lamp , which stands upon a small mahogany table , sheds its dim light over the curtains of Brother Caleb 's bed . 
The curtains are parted , and the light shines on Brother Caleb 's face . 
His lean form wrapped in a blue satin dressing gown , he rests upon the coverlet , and turns him in his sleep , as though he was the victim of some troubled dream . 
His face -- whose bronzed hues and bold features are strongly defined against the soft satin of the pillow which supports his head -- is turned to the light , and you discover that Brother Caleb is sleeping with his eyes wide open and teeth set firmly together . 
Brother Caleb 's face , with sunken cheeks , wide mouth and thin lips , forehead widening over the brows , and eyes bulging from their lids , does not present a pleasant picture at any time , but now , agitated by the terrors of a dream , and mocked by the very contrast of the silken pillow and velvet curtain , it is as hideous as the phantom of a nightmare . 
And yet he is sleeping there , the owner of the splendid mansion , like an unsightly kernel , within a rich , luxurious shell . 
He is so very , very rich . 
A bachelor , too , with no care of wife or child upon his soul . 
For him , a thousand , and ten thousand slaves , are waiting ever -- not slaves with black faces , and owned by the life-time merely -- but slaves of all hues and races , whose services he may purchase with his pieces of gold , and his slips of bank note paper . 
Here sleeps a Rich Man who has no care , save that involved in the legal enjoyment of his appetites . 
His money -- how gained , where acquired , is not your business -- his money , is but the embodied toil of some ten thousand slaves ; the work of ten thousand common people , petrified into bank notes and brick walls . 
Who talks of depriving Brother Caleb of his -- PROPERTY ? 
And Brother Caleb was a Rich Man . 
What a pity it is , for Brother Caleb , that his path covered with gold , must end at last at the same point which terminates the poor man 's way , which is only paved with flints and thorns -- end at last , at a narrow pit , seven feet long , by eight feet deep ! 
Why is not Brother Caleb immortal ? 
But while we are preaching upon the sacred rights of Property ; our friend , Brother Caleb , tosses uneasily upon his silken pillow , and turns his writhing features , from side to side . 
First , Brother Caleb beholds a brave ship resting upon the waters of a waveless sea , under a burning sky . 
muttered Brother Caleb in his dream . 
It is many a mile away , but Brother Caleb sees it with his telescope and knows it well . 
Thus he murmurs in his dream . 
The boat comes nearer -- what shall Brother Caleb do ? 
The idea is vain , for two-thirds of his men are sick with a plague , engendered by the foul atmosphere of the Slave Ship . 
Shall Brother Caleb be taken , on board of his good ship Falcon , and arrested as a Slaver , a sort of mercantile Pirate , whose Capital is flesh and blood ? 
Look with your own eyes , and see how Brother Caleb relieves himself from his peril . 
To the plank with him , to the plank with her , to the plank with every one ! 
Thus Brother Caleb rids himself of his cargo -- men , women , children , all , are quietly put out of sight , under that fervid sky , and beneath the gloomy surface of that waveless sea . 
`` Ho , ho , now let them come , '' laughed Brother Caleb in his dream . 
This was the first part of Brother Caleb 's dream . 
The light beside the bed shone full upon his cold blue eyes , as his soul became absorbed in the details of a new scene . 
And in his dream , he saw his friend Lemuel Gardiner stake his money on the red , until twenty thousand dollars -- the heritage of Annie and Harry Bayne -- had passed from Lemuel 's hands . 
mutters Brother Caleb -- `` So unsuspecting ! 
In his sleep his chest heaved violently , and he made an effort to raise his hands to his face , but they remained cramped and stiffened by his side . 
Then came the third part of his dream . 
mutters brother Caleb , and then pursues this scene to its sequel . 
It must have been a fearful sequel , for as he dream it over , Brother Caleb 's forehead was wet with beaded moisture . 
Brother Caleb stood at the foot of a stairway , which led upward -- far , far upward , into the clouds . 
It seemed to him , that he was forced to ascend this stairway , whose every step of cold white alabaster , quivered to and fro , like the folds of a curtain . 
He shrank shuddering from the first step , but an invisible influence urged him onward . 
In his dream he began to ascend . 
And as in his dream , he touched the first step of the stairway , he arose from the bed , and clad in the loose dressing gown , took the light from the table . 
He moves to the door of his chamber , while his eyes are cold and death-like , imagining that at every step across the velvet carpet , he is gaining another step upon the stairway of his dream . 
He passes into the entry , still asleep , although his limbs possess the power of motion . 
He begins slowly to ascend that wide stairway of his own mansion , up which he passed with Charles Lester , an hour ago . 
And while his body ascends the real stairway , his soul is absorbed with the endless stairway , which leads upward , into infinite space . 
Light in hand , the dressing gown flowing loosely around his gaunt frame , he passes upward , with a noiseless step , at the same time , gazing straight forward with his fixed eyeballs . 
Following the windings of the stairway , he reaches the third floor , and his light streams in uncertain gleams , upon the entry below . 
He beholds the form of Brother Caleb , as he stands before the door of an apartment , on the third floor . 
`` He goes to the Iron Room , '' the thought half escapes Lemuel 's lips , and at the very moment Brother Caleb disappears . 
It is the same into which Brother Caleb conducted Charles Lester , an hour ago . 
Brother Caleb is there . 
His back toward Lemuel , he holds the light extended in his right hand , and pauses before a narrow door-way , which is sunken in the thickness of the wall . 
He glides on tip-toe across the floor , he stands directly behind Brother Caleb , as Brother Caleb is gazing upon the panel of the narrow door . 
Clenching his hands , Lemuel surveys the tall form of Goodleigh , awaiting with set teeth and hushed breath , the moment when he shall turn and look into his face . 
`` It rocks , this cursed stairway , but I shall soon gain its summit , '' thus Brother Caleb , still asleep , murmurs as he ascends the stairway of his dream . 
The sound of his voice , breaking so abruptly upon the stillness , penetrates Lemuel at once with the extremity of cowardice and hardihood . 
Brother Caleb turns , and looks into the face of Lemuel , with his glassy eyes . 
In the third story of his mansion , Brother Caleb has set this chamber apart , as the especial haunt of Edmund Jervis . 
He attended Ellen in her last hours -- and to Ellen 's Brother confided the secret of his life -- of your life , and of your brother 's -- for it seems you have a brother . 
And to-night , my child , I left you insensible in the care of my good friend Caleb . 
At the same moment , separated from him by thick walls , and panels of rivetted metal , Charles was dying in the Iron Room , while Caleb and Lemuel stood by its narrow door . 
Our history now returns to Brother Caleb and the Converted Monk . 
Brother Caleb , holding the light above his head , turned slowly round , and gazed upon Lemuel with his cold fixed eyeballs . 
The luxurious folds of the dressing gown , which clothed Brother Caleb 's gaunt form , only increased by contrast , the hideousness of his unearthly countenance . 
murmurs Brother Caleb , still absorbed by the adventure of his dream . 
His rigid face , motionless eyeballs , and slowly muttered words , suddenly strike the `` Converted Monk '' with an impression of the truth . 
the thought only half escapes his lips . 
Brother Caleb , still asleep , was of course unconscious of his presence . 
Turning , he touched the spring of the narrow door . 
It opened , and light in hand , he crossed the threshold , imagining that he had won another step on the stairway of his dream . 
And Lemuel , with all his soul absorbed in the contemplation of the movements of Brother Caleb , did not observe a prostrate form which was stretched upon the iron floor . 
His own shadow added to the shadow of Brother Caleb , completely veiled the prostrate form from observation . 
Nor did Lemuel , watching with an unchanging glance , the movements of Brother Caleb , behold the haggard face , which slowly uprose from the shadows , gazing around with a dull vacant gaze . 
It was the face of Charles Lester , who aroused from his deathlike stupor , by the current of fresh air , slowly raised his head , and beheld the motionless form of Brother Caleb , standing gaunt and erect , in the centre of the Iron Room . 
And near Brother Caleb , Charles beheld the slight figure of the `` Converted Monk , '' crouching behind the gaunt form , like some noxious reptile , about to dart upon its unconscious prey . 
Lemuel still believing that it was Stewel 's footstep that had disturbed his silent watch , turned again , and watched with flaming eyes the motions of his friend Gatherwood , otherwise known as Brother Caleb . 
groaned Brother Caleb , in a tone of acute agony : `` Do not hurl me from this dreadful height ! 
Brother Caleb had attained the last step of that stairway , leading into the clouds , when there -- upon the summit , amid white folds of waving mist -- appeared the figure of Alice Bayne . 
But even as Brother Caleb 's foot touched the last step , the stairway began to rock with a frightful motion . 
He reached forth his arm , and attempted to clutch her hand , but that hand evaded his grasp , while the face of the beautiful woman was agitated by a look of calm mockery . 
Brother Caleb cast his eyes below -- the awful height made him dizzy . 
Thousands and ten of thousands of fathoms of space , lay between him and the solid earth . 
And Alice could save him -- save him by the single extension of her hand -- but Alice smiled in calm mockery , while she murmured in a calm musical voice , these words : `` Dr. Gatherwood , my home was happy before you passed its threshold ! 
And while the stairway rocked like a reed in the blast , Alice shook her golden hair , from the summit , and taunted the poor wretch with the history of his crimes . 
-- Such was the course of Brother Caleb 's dream , as he stood in the centre of the Iron Room , with the keen eyes of Lemuel Gardiner fixed upon his rigid face . 
cried Brother Caleb , relapsing into the dialect of his youth : `` Thee will not refuse to aid me ! 
Mercy , Alice , mercy upon me , or I will fall -- '' Brother Caleb strode madly forward , thinking that he was gaining the last step of the dream-stairway , and Brother Caleb pitched violently against the iron wall of the Iron Room . 
With cold sweat upon his forehead , he awoke . 
You may imagine his surprise , when the reality succeeded to his dream . 
He found himself in the Iron Room , with the eyes of Lemuel Gardiner gazing into his own . 
said Brother Caleb after a long pause . 
His projecting eyeballs began to lose their vague and glassy aspect . 
`` I have not seen you these three months , '' resumed Brother Caleb , holding the light above his head , while he took a more attentive survey of Lemuel 's face : `` Yes , it 's three -- possibly four months . 
Brother Caleb smiled with his imperceptible lips ; a sort of cadaverous smile , which only deepened the hollows of his cheeks , while it gave a sudden lustre to his eyes . 
Brother Caleb was wrapped in thought . 
Placing the finger of his unoccupied hand , between his brows , he seemed earnestly engaged in an effort , to recollect distinctly , the events of the past four hours . 
`` I have been walking in my sleep , '' he exclaimed , `` and have wandered from my bed to this room . 
cried Brother Caleb folding his blue gown about his spare limbs : `` How came you into my house at this hour ? 
Now Brother Caleb had not heard that name for many years . 
Pronounced by his associate in the crimes of seventeen years ago , it struck harshly upon his ear , and with the memory of his late dream still pressing heavily upon his brain , it sounded like an accent uttered by some mocking Demon , from the shadows of a dark and guilty Past . 
While Brother Caleb thus poured forth this torrent of incoherent reproach , `` the Converted Monk '' maintained his fixed position in the corner , as silent as the iron walls against which he leaned his crouching form . 
He did not hate Caleb because he was bad ; only because he was the Rich Scoundrel . 
Caleb 's voice was hoarse with suppressed rage . 
Brother Caleb recoiled , as though a blow from a strong man had stricken him in the chest . 
he whispered , `` Cur ! 
Caleb turned on his heel , and at a glance , saw that the door of the Iron Room was indeed closed . 
And then Brother Caleb gave utterance to a frightful oath , for -- he knew not the secret of the spring which opened the door from the inside . 
`` When you bought the house , you were informed of the existence of the Iron Room , '' said Lemuel , remarking the changed countenance of Caleb with calm satisfaction : `` The original owner built it with a particular object . 
Brother Caleb raised his hand to his forehead -- it was wet with beaded moisture . 
The lamp quivered as he held it above his colorless face . 
Again he paused , but it was now Caleb 's turn to be silent . 
said Brother Caleb , wiping the sweat from his forehead . 
`` This is a jest , Lemuel , '' said Caleb , gnashing his teeth -- `` a jest for which you will pay dearly -- '' `` For which both of us will pay dearly , '' interrupted the `` Converted Monk '' -- `` But as I reached the head of the stairs , I saw you emerge from your room . 
Brother Caleb at the same instant became conscious of two facts , which promised to have a decided influence upon the course of his life . 
He was alone with a madman . 
It needed not his medical lore to tell him that . 
The eyes blazing in their sockets , the lips distorted by a grimace , and whitened by an almost imperceptible foam , the outstretched arms swaying vaguely in the air -- conveyed a language which Brother Caleb could not misunderstand . 
And this was only the first fact of which he became suddenly conscious . 
Looking over his shoulder , Brother Caleb saw a slight cloud of smoke , issuing from the aperture near the ceiling . 
This was the thought which Brother Caleb deduced from the two important truths just mentioned . 
Could he tame the madman by threats , by promises , or by the magnetic power of the eye ? 
Brother Caleb was so Rich -- so very , very Rich -- and Lemuel Gardiner so Poor -- so miserably Poor ! 
And Brother Caleb must die in an Iron Coffin , heated red hot by the flames of his burning mansion , die with a madman 's yell in his ears , die a death such as had never befallen the leprous negro , in the infernal history of the Slave Trade ! 
`` Lem , my good fellow , the joke has been carried far enough , '' as he spoke , in a tone of good-fellowship , he raised the lamp , with a firmer hand , and surveyed the face of the `` Converted Monk '' : `` You know the secret of the inside spring . 
Caleb cast an uneasy glance toward the aperture . 
shrieked Caleb , now fairly wild with terror , as the big drops of moisture coursed down his hollow cheeks : `` I swear to you that I will forget the past . 
cried Brother Caleb , fixing his gaze , with sudden intensity upon the visage of Lemuel : `` Why need I beseech , when with a look I can disarm your madness ! 
He shrank , and turned his body away , but his eyes he could not remove from Brother Caleb 's face . 
Turning his body from side to side , at pleasure , he could not remove his eyes from the burning fascination of Caleb 's gaze . 
exclaimed Brother Caleb , while his projecting eyeballs , emitted flames of magnetic light : `` You are in my power . 
Not for an instant did he remove his gaze from Caleb 's face . 
He was chained to Caleb 's eyes , as by the power of an irresistible magnetism . 
Brother Caleb dared not turn away his eyes from Lemuel 's face . 
But he felt the air was growing warmer every moment , and the smoke issuing from the aperture , now began to flow like a misty veil before his face . 
And as he struggled with that gaze , as a man would wrestle with an enemy , arm to arm and breast to breast , Brother Caleb drew nearer , until the lamp which he held came within the reach of Lemuel 's uplifted arm . 
The face of Caleb was bathed in moisture . 
His eyes flashed with a sinister , malignant lustre . 
he said , and -- Lemuel 's struggling arm , dashed the lamp from his hand . 
The power of Caleb 's gaze was gone ; and a burst of mocking laughter which seemed to resound from the very heart of Lemuel , told Caleb that the hour of the madman 's vengeance was at hand . 
gasped Caleb through his grating teeth . 
But they can not save you Caleb . 
Caleb uttered a howl of despair and plunged in the direction of his enemy 's voice , but Lemuel slid like a snake from his outstretched arms . 
`` This place stifles me , '' groaned Caleb -- `` I can scarcely breathe . 
I am rich -- rich '' -- `` And you must die the death of a leprous negro in a burning ship , '' whispered Lemuel in his ear . 
Caleb groaned in anguish : he heard the sound of bells and trampling feet , and shouting voices , all subdued and deadened by thick walls , and every sound penetrated his heart like his funeral knell . 
he shrieked -- `` Must I die in this cursed place ? '' 
shrieked Caleb , `` Where is it ? 
While the atmosphere grew more dense , Caleb and Lemuel placed their hands upon the iron panels , already warming under the influence of the fire , and with the eagerness of despair sought for the inside spring . ' 
hissed Caleb through his set teeth : `` You will share my fate . 
groaned Caleb in a changed voice . 
Panting for breath , his lungs oppressed by the stifling air , the sinews of his throat writhing under a sense of suffocation , his brain fevered and his temples throbbing with acute agony , Brother Caleb felt that his consciousness was rapidly passing away , that he was sinking fast into that stupor which terminates only in Eternity . 
He began to utter incoherent oaths and imprecations of despair , as he staggered over the heated floor . 
Staggering to and fro , Brother Caleb at last , encountered the form of Lemuel . 
They grappled together , and fought in the darkness , Caleb endeavoring to dash the head of Lemuel against the heated wall , while Lemuel clinging to him , with maniac strength , sunk his teeth into Caleb 's shoulder . 
He sprang from the arms of Caleb and rushed toward the Preacher . 
The battle in the street , and the flames of Brother Caleb 's house , raged together . 
And they went forth together , the hardy back woodsman and the Brother of Ellen . 
shrieked the Popular Preacher , as he felt the rope about his neck : `` Brother Markham , Brother Edmunds , Brother Finchley , you know me -- you have heard me preach -- you will not permit this outrage ! '' 
