I hope Mr Snodgrass will give as much satisfaction to the parish as can reasonably be expected in my absence ; and I remain , dear sir , your friend and pastor , Zachariah Pringle . 
But even Mr Snodgrass was seen to smile at the incident of taking the number off the coach , the meaning of which , none but himself seemed to understand . 
This was no doubt a preconcerted scheme between her and Miss Isabella Tod , to hear what Mr Andrew Pringle had said to his friend Mr Snodgrass , and likewise what the doctor himself had indited to Mr Micklewham , some rumour having spread of the wonderful escapes and adventures of the family in their journey and voyage to London . 
Miss Becky Glibbans , from the purest motives of charity , devoutly wished that poor Rachel might be able to carry her full cup with a steady hand ; and the Rev. Mr Snodgrass , that so commendable an expression might not lose its edifying effect , by any lighter talk , requested Mr Micklewham to read his letter from the doctor . 
When we had gotten ourselves made up in order , we went , with Andrew Pringle , my son , to the counting-house , and had a satisfactory vista of the residue , but it will be some time before things can be settled -- indeed , I fear , not for months to come -- so that I have been thinking , if the parish was pleased with Mr Snodgrass , it might be my duty to my people to give up to him my stipend , and let him be appointed not only helper , but successor likewise . 
It would not be right of me to give the manse , both because he 's a young and inexperienced man , and can not , in the course of nature , have got into the way of visiting the sick-beds of the frail , which is the main part of a pastor 's duty , and likewise , because I wish to die , as I have lived , among my people . 
The only person who seemed to be affected by other than the most sedate feelings on the occasion , was the Rev. Mr Snodgrass , who was observed to smile in a very unbecoming manner at some parts of the doctor 's account of his reception at St Paul 's . 
-- `` True , my dear madam , '' replied Mr Snodgrass , `` but the Lord , to whom our friends in this case gave their money , is the Lord Bishop of London ; all the collection made at the doors of St Paul 's Cathedral is , I understand , a perquisite of the Bishop 's . '' 
But not to make a controversy on the subject , Mr Snodgrass will now let us hear what Andrew Pringle , ` my son , ' has said to him : '' -- And the reverend gentleman read the following letter with due circumspection , and in his best manner . 
Just as Mr Snodgrass concluded the last sentence , Captain Jemmy -- T -- n , one of the Clyde skippers , who had fallen asleep , gave such an extravagant snore , followed by a groan , that it set the whole company a laughing , and interrupted the critical strictures which would otherwise have been made on Mr Andrew Pringle 's epistle . 
It was past eleven o'clock when the party broke up ; Mr Snodgrass , and Mr Micklewham , walked home together , and as they were crossing the Red burn bridge , at the entrance of Eglintoun wood , -- a place well noted from ancient times for preternatural appearances , Mr Micklewham declared , that he thought he heard something purring among the bushes ; upon which Mr Snodgrass made a jocose observation , stating , that it could be nothing but the effect of Lord North 's strong ale in his head ; and we should add , by way of explanation , that the Lord North here spoken of , was Willy Grieve , celebrated in Irvine for the strength and flavour of his brewing , and that , in addition to a plentiful supply of his best , Miss Mally had entertained them with tamarind punch , constituting a natural cause adequate to produce all the preternatural purring that terrified the dominie . 
But before the day of baptism , Mr Daff , who thought Tam had given but sullen symptoms of penitence , said , to put him in better humour with his fate , -- `` Noo , Tam , since ye hae beguiled us of the infare , we maun mak up for ' t at the christening ; so I 'll speak to Mr Snodgrass to bid the Doctor 's friens and acquaintance to the ploy , that we may get as meikle amang us as will pay for the bairn 's baptismal frock . '' 
Mr Craig , who was present , and who never lost an opportunity of testifying , as he said , his `` discountenance of the crying iniquity , '' remonstrated with Mr Daff on the unchristian nature of the proposal , stigmatizing it with good emphasis , `` as a sinful nourishing of carnality in his day and generation . '' 
Mr Micklewham , however , interfered , and said , `` It was a matter of weight and concernment , and therefore it behoves you to consult Mr Snodgrass on the fitness of the thing . 
For if the thing itself is not fit and proper , it can not expect his countenance ; and , on that account , before we reckon on his compliance with what Mr Daff has propounded , we should first learn whether he approves of it at all . '' 
Whereupon the two elders and the session-clerk adjourned to the manse , in which Mr Snodgrass , during the absence of the incumbent , had taken up his abode . 
The heads of the previous conversation were recapitulated by Mr Micklewham , with as much brevity as was consistent with perspicuity ; and the matter being duly digested by Mr Snodgrass , that orthodox young man -- as Mrs Glibbans denominated him , on hearing him for the first time -- declared that the notion of a paychristening was a benevolent and kind thought ; `` For , is not the order to increase and multiply , one of the first commands in the Scriptures of truth ? '' 
said Mr Snodgrass , addressing himself to Mr Craig . 
Mr Craig replied , `` It 's a very true and sound what Mr Snodgrass has observed ; but Tam Glen 's wean is neither a stranger , nor hungry , nor naked , but a sturdy brat , that has been rinning its lane for mare than sax weeks . '' 
said Mr Snodgrass familiarly , `` I fear , Mr Craig , ye 're a Malthusian in your heart . '' 
Of many a various shade and modification of sectarianism he had heard , but the Malthusian heresy was new to his ears , and awful to his conscience , and he begged Mr Snodgrass to tell him in what it chiefly consisted , protesting his innocence of that , and of every erroneous doctrine . 
Mr Snodgrass happened to regard the opinions of Malthus on population , as equally contrary to religion and nature , and not at all founded in truth . 
It may be therefore affirmed , that the multiplication of the means of subsistence is an effect of the multiplication of population , for the one is augmented in quantity , by the skill and care of the other , '' said Mr Snodgrass , seizing with avidity this opportunity of stating what he thought on the subject , although his auditors were but the sessionclerk , and two elders of a country parish . 
We can not pursue the train of his argument , but we should do injustice to the philosophy of Malthus , if we suppressed the observation which Mr Daff made at the conclusion . 
But Mr Snodgrass put an end to the controversy , by fixing a day for the christening , and telling , he would do his best to procure a good collection , according to the benevolent suggestion of Mr Daff . 
Mr Snodgrass looked at Becky , as if he had been afflicted at the moment with unpleasant ideas ; and perhaps he would have rebuked the spitefulness of her insinuations , had not her mother sharply snubbed the uncongenial maiden , in terms at least as pungent as any which the reverend gentleman would have employed . 
`` What think you , Mr Snodgrass , '' said that spirit-stricken lady , -- `` what think you of this dining on the Lord 's Day , -- this playing on the harp ; the carnal Mozarting of that ungodly family , with whom the corrupt human nature of our friends has been chambering ? '' 
Mr Snodgrass was at some loss for an answer , and hesitated , but Miss Mally Glencairn relieved him from his embarrassment , by remarking , that `` the harp was a holy instrument , '' which somewhat troubled the settled orthodoxy of Mrs Glibbans 's visage . 
`` Had it been an organ , '' said Mr Snodgrass , dryly , '' there might have been , perhaps , more reason to doubt ; but , as Miss Mally justly remarks , the harp has been used from the days of King David in the performances of sacred music , together with the psalter , the timbrel , the sackbut , and the cymbal . '' 
On Sunday morning , before going to church , Mr Micklewham called at the Manse , and said that he wished particularly to speak to Mr Snodgrass . 
Upon being admitted , he found the young helper engaged at breakfast , with a book lying on his table , very like a volume of a new novel called Ivanhoe , in its appearance , but of course it must have been sermons done up in that manner to attract fashionable readers . 
As soon , however , as Mr Snodgrass saw his visitor , he hastily removed the book , and put it into the table-drawer . 
The precentor having taken a seat at the opposite side of the fire , began somewhat diffidently to mention , that he had received a letter from the doctor , that made him at a loss whether or not he ought to read it to the elders , as usual , after worship , and therefore was desirous of consulting Mr Snodgrass on the subject , for it recorded , among other things , that the doctor had been at the playhouse , and Mr Micklewham was quite sure that Mr Craig would be neither to bind nor to hold when he heard that , although the transgression was certainly mollified by the nature of the performance . 
As the clergyman , however , could offer no opinion until he saw the letter , the precentor took it out of his pocket , and Mr Snodgrass found the contents , as follows : -- London . 
When Mr Snodgrass had perused this epistle , he paused sometime , seemingly in doubt , and then he said to Mr Micklewham , that , considering the view which the doctor had taken of the matter , and that he had not gone to the play-house for the motives which usually take bad people to such places , he thought there could be no possible harm in reading the letter to the elders , and that Mr Craig , so far from being displeased , would doubtless be exceedingly rejoiced to learn , that the play-houses of London were occasionally so well employed as on the night when the doctor was there . 
Mr Micklewham then inquired if Mr Snodgrass had heard from Mr Andrew , and was answered in the affirmative ; but the letter was not read . 
On the same Sunday on which Mrs Micklewham consulted Mr Snodgrass as to the propriety of reading the doctor 's letter to the elders , the following epistle reached the post office of Irvine , and was delivered by Saunders Dickie himself , at the door of Mrs Glibbans , to her servan lassie , who , as her mistress had gone to the relief church , told him , that he would have to come for the postage the morn 's morning . 
One evening as Mr Snodgrass was taking a solitary walk towards Irvine , for the purpose of calling on Miss Mally Glencairn , to inquire what had been her latest accounts from their mutual friends in London , and to read to her a letter , which he had received two days before , from Mr Andrew Pringle , he met , near Eglintoun Gates , that pious woman Mrs Glibbans , coming to Garnock , brimful of some most extraordinary intelligence . 
Mr Snodgrass proposed to turn back with her , but she would not permit him . 
Ay , ay , Mr Snodgrass , take heed lest ye fall ; we maun all lay it to heart , but I hope the trooper is still within the jurisdiction of church censures . 
Mr Snodgrass expressed his inability to understand to what Mrs Glibbans alluded , and a very long and interesting disclosure took place , the substance of which may be gathered from the following letter ; the immediate and instigating cause of the lady 's journey to Garnock being the alarming intelligence which she had that day received of Mr Craig 's servant-damsel Betty , having , by the style and title of Mrs Craig , sent for Nanse Swaddle , the midwife , to come to her in her own case , which seemed to Mrs Glibbans nothing short of a miracle , Betty having , the very Sunday before , helped the kettle when she drank tea with Mr Craig , and sat at the room door , on a buffet-stool brought from the kitchen , while he performed family worship , to the great solace and edification of his visitor . 
As Mrs Glibbans would not permit Mr Snodgrass to return with her to the manse , he pursued his journey alone to the Kirkgate of Irvine , where he found Miss Mally Glencairn on the eve of sitting down to her solitary tea . 
Mr Snodgrass expressed his surprise at this account of the faults of that exemplary lady 's youth ; but he thought of her holy anxiety to sift into the circumstances of Betty , the elder 's servant , becoming in one day Mrs Craig , and the same afternoon sending for the midwife , and he prudently made no other comment ; for the characters of all preachers were in her hands , and he had the good fortune to stand high in her favour , as a young man of great promise . 
`` It appears to us , '' said Mr Snodgrass , as he folded up the letter to return it to his pocket , `` that the Londoners , with all their advantages of information , are neither purer nor better than their fellow-subjects in the country . '' 
The conversation with Mr Snodgrass was not , however , lengthened into acrimony ; for immediately after the remark which we have noticed , she proposed that they should call on Miss Isabella Todd to see Rachel 's letter ; indeed this was rendered necessary by the state of the fire , for after boiling the kettle she had allowed it to fall low . 
When Mr Snodgrass had read this letter , he paused for a moment , and then said dryly , in handing it to Miss Isabella , `` Miss Pringle is improving in the ways of the world . '' 
`` Mr Snodgrass ! 
`` Mr Snodgrass ! '' 
Mrs Craig is to be sure far gane , but they were married in December ; and it was only because she was his servan ' lass that the worthy man didna like to own her at first for his wife . 
She gaed to Glasgow to see an auntie that she has there , and he gaed in to fetch her out , and it was then the marriage was made up , which I was glad to hear ; for , O , Mr Snodgrass , it would have been an awfu ' judgment had a man like Mr Craig tur n't out no better than a Tam Pain or a Major Weir . 
These , however , were less numerous than when the family were at home ; but still , Mr Snodgrass , when the weather was fine , had no reason to deplore the loneliness of his bachelor 's court . 
`` It is so , '' replied Mr Snodgrass , `` and I do often wonder , when I see the blithe and hearty children of the cottars , frolicking in the abundance of health and hilarity , where the means come from to enable their poor industrious parents to supply their wants . '' 
`` How can you wonder at ony sic things , Mr Snodgrass ? 
Mr Snodgrass then read as follows : My dear Friend , -- You are not aware of the task you impose , when you request me to send you some account of the general way of living in London . 
When Mr Snodgrass paused , and was folding up the letter , Mrs Craig , bending with her hands on her knees , said , emphatically , `` Noo , sir , what think you of that ? '' 
He was not , however , quite prepared to give an answer to a question so abruptly propounded , nor indeed did he exactly understand to what particular the lady referred . 
`` He 's a good man , '' said Mrs Glibbans , in a tone calculated to repress the forwardness of Mrs Craig -- but Miss Mally Glencairn having , in the meanwhile , taken from her pocket an epistle which she had received the preceding day from Mrs Pringle , Mr Snodgrass silenced all controversy on that score by requesting her to proceed with the reading . 
But , Mr Snodgrass , dinna ye think that this painting of the queen 's face is a Jezebitical testification against her ? '' 
Mr Snodgrass replied , with an unwonted sobriety of manner , and with an emphasis that shewed he intended to make some impression on his auditors -- `` It is impossible to judge correctly of strangers by measuring them according to our own notions of propriety . 
The accent of authority in which this was said , prevented Mr Snodgrass from offering any reply ; and a brief pause ensuing , Miss Molly Glencairn observed , that it was a surprising thing how the doctor and Mrs Pringle managed their matters so well . 
-- And , in saying this , the amiable hostess burst into a loud sob of sorrow , which induced Mr Snodgrass to beg Mr Micklewham to read the doctor 's letter , by which a happy stop was put to the further manifestation of the grudge which Mrs Craig harboured against Mrs Glibbans for the lecture which she had received , on what the latter called `` the incarnated effect of a more than Potipharian claught o ' the godly Mr Craig . '' 
Dear Sir , -- I had a great satisfaction in hearing that Mr Snodgrass , in my place , prays for the queen on the Lord 's Day , which liberty , to do in our national church , is a thing to be upholden with a fearless spirit , even with the spirit of martyrdom , that we may not bow down in Scotland to the prelatic Baal of an order in Council , whereof the Archbishop of Canterbury , that is cousin-german to the Pope of Rome , is art and part . 
But , Mr Snodgrass , I did not ken before that the bishops had a hand in the making of the Acts of the Parliament ; I think , Mr Snodgrass , if that be the case , there should be some doubt in Scotland about obeying them . 
-- `` O ye 're a spiteful deevil , '' whispered Miss Mally , with a smile to her ; and turning in the same moment to Miss Isabella Todd , begged her to read Miss Pringle 's letter -- a motion which Mr Snodgrass seconded chiefly to abridge the conversation , during which , though he wore a serene countenance , he often suffered much . 
My father and mother will then return to Scotland ; but whether the doctor will continue to keep his parish , or give it up to Mr Snodgrass , will depend greatly on the circumstances in which he finds his parishioners . 
In the same moment , Mr Snodgrass took his leave , saying to Mr Micklewham , that he had something particular to mention to him . 
Mr Snodgrass was obliged to walk into Irvine one evening , to get rid of a raging tooth , which had tormented him for more than a week . 
During this visit , Saunders Dickie , the postman , brought a London letter to the door , for Miss Isabella ; and Mr Snodgrass having desired the servant to inquire if there were any for him , had the good fortune to get the following from Mr Andrew Pringle : My dear Friend , -- I never receive a letter from you without experiencing a strong emotion of regret , that talents like yours should be wilfully consigned to the sequestered vegetation of a country pastor 's life . 
`` This is a dry letter , '' said Mr Snodgrass , and he handed it to Miss Isabella , who , in exchange , presented the one which she had herself at the same time received ; but just as Mr Snodgrass was on the point of reading it , Miss Becky P. Glibbans was announced . 
The authority of her parent 's tongue silenced Miss Becky , and Mrs Glibbans having seated herself , continued , -- `` Is it your opinion , Mr Snodgrass , that this marriage can hold good , contracted , as I am told it is mentioned in the papers to hae been , at the horns of the altar of Episcopalian apostacy ? '' 
Here Mr Snodgrass interposed , and said , he would read to them the letter which Miss Isabella had received from the bride ; and without waiting for their concurrence , opened and read as follows . 
`` Mr Snodgrass , '' said Mrs Glibbans , instantly and emphatically , `` ye maun let me go with you , and we can spiritualize on the road ; for I hae promis ' t Mrs Craig to be wi ' her at the crying , to see the upshot , so I hope you will come awa . '' 
It would be impossible in us to suppose , that Mr Snodgrass had any objections to spiritualize with Mrs Glibbans on the road between Irvine and Garnock ; but notwithstanding her urgency , he excused himself from going with her ; however , he recommended her to the special care and protection of Mr Micklewham , who was at that time on his legs to return home . 
Mr Snodgrass , '' said the lady , looking slyly , as she adjusted her cloak , at him and Miss Isabella , `` there will be marrying and giving in marriage till the day of judgment . '' 
As soon as Miss Mally received this intelligence , she went to Miss Isabella Todd , and requested her company for the next day to Garnock , where they arrived be-times to dine with Mr Snodgrass . 
Mr Snodgrass , after enjoying his dinner society with Miss Mally and Miss Isabella , thought it necessary to dispatch a courier , in the shape of a bare-footed servant lass , to Mr Micklewham , to inform the elders that the doctor was expected home in time for tea , leaving it to their discretion either to greet his safe return at the manse , or in any other form or manner that would be most agreeable to themselves . 
When the carriage reached the manse door , Mr Snodgrass , the two ladies , with Mr Micklewham , and all the elders except Mr Craig , were there ready to receive the travellers . 
Mr Snodgrass , before delivering the household keys , ordered two bottles of wine , with glasses and biscuit , to be set upon the table , while Mrs Pringle produced from a paper package , that had helped to stuff one of the pockets of the carriage , a piece of rich plumb-cake , brought all the way from a confectioner 's in Cockspur Street , London , not only for the purpose of being eaten , but , as she said , to let Miss Nanny Eydent pree , in order to direct the Irvine bakers how to bake others like it . 
Miss Isabella reddened at this question ; but Mrs Pringle , who was as prudent as she was observant , affecting not to notice this , turned round to Miss Mally Glencairn , and said softly in her ear , -- `` Rachel was Bell 's confidante , and has told us all about what 's going on between her and Mr Snodgrass . 
At supper , the party , besides the minister and Mrs Pringle , consisted of the two Irvine ladies , and Mr Snodgrass . 
Many `` pickant jokes , '' as Miss Becky described them , were cracked by the doctor ; but , soon after the table was cleared , he touched Mr Snodgrass on the arm , and , taking up one of the candles , went with him to his study , where he then told him , that Rachel Pringle , now Mrs Sabre , had informed him of a way in which he could do him a service . 
Mr Snodgrass was a good deal agitated ; he was taken by surprise , and without words the doctor might have guessed his sentiments ; he , however , frankly confessed that he did entertain a very high opinion of Miss Bell , but that he was not sure if a country parish would exactly suit him . 
But at this time , either because it had been settled that Mr Snodgrass was to officiate , or for some other reason , there was a breach in the observance of this time-honoured custom . 
The doctor himself did not preach , but sat in the minister 's pew till Mr Snodgrass had concluded an eloquent and truly an affecting sermon ; at the end of which , he rose and went up into the pulpit , where he publicly returned thanks for the favours and blessings he had obtained during his absence , and for the safety in which he had been restored , after many dangers and tribulations , to the affections of his parishioners . 
The previous owner of Moneypennies had built an elegant house on the estate , to which Mrs Pringle is at present actively preparing to remove from the Manse ; and it is understood , that as Mr Snodgrass was last week declared helper , and successor to the doctor , his marriage with Miss Isabella Todd will take place with all convenient expedition . 
