Thoughts previous to attempting an Escape -- Toby , a fellow sailor , agrees to share the Adventure -- Last Night aboard the Ship . 
He was a young fellow about my own age , for whom I had all along entertained a great regard ; and Toby , such was the name by which he went among us , for his real name he would never tell us , was every way worthy of it . 
He was active , ready , and obliging , of dauntless courage , and singularly open and fearless in the expression of his feelings . 
I had on more than one occasion got him out of scrapes into which this had led him ; and I know not whether it was from this cause , or a certain congeniality of sentiment between us , that he had always shown a partiality for my society . 
Toby , like myself , had evidently moved in a different sphere of life , and his conversation at times betrayed this , although he was anxious to conceal it . 
He was one of that class of rovers you sometimes meet at sea , who never reveal their origin , never allude to home , and go rambling over the world as if pursued by some mysterious fate they can not possibly elude . 
There was much even in the appearance of Toby calculated to draw me towards him , for while the greater part of the crew were as coarse in person as in mind , Toby was endowed with a remarkably prepossessing exterior . 
Arrayed in his blue frock and duck trowsers , he was as smart a looking sailor as ever stepped upon a deck ; he was singularly small and slightly made , with great flexibility of limb . 
His naturally dark complexion had been deepened by exposure to the tropical sun , and a mass of jetty locks clustered about his temples , and threw a darker shade into his large black eyes . 
He was a strange wayward being , moody , fitful , and melancholy -- at times almost morose . 
He had a quick and fiery temper too , which , when thoroughly roused , transported him into a state bordering on delirium . 
No one ever saw Toby laugh . 
He did smile sometimes , it is true ; and there was a good deal of dry , sarcastic humor about him , which told the more from the imperturbable gravity of his tone and manner . 
Latterly I had observed that Toby 's melancholy had greatly increased , and I had frequently seen him since our arrival at the island gazing wistfully upon the shore , when the remainder of the crew would be rioting below . 
I was aware that he entertained a cordial detestation of the ship , and believed that should a fair chance of escape present itself , he would embrace it willingly . 
When I perceived Toby leaning , as I have mentioned , against the bulwarks and buried in thought , it struck me at once that the subject of his meditations might be the same as my own . 
And if it be so , thought I , is he not the very one of all my shipmates whom I would choose for the partner of my adventure ? 
A tap upon the shoulder served to rouse Toby from his reverie ; I found him ripe for the enterprise , and a very few words sufficed for a mutual understanding between us . 
We then ratified our engagement with an affectionate wedding of palms , and to elude suspicion repaired each to his hammock , to spend the last night on board the Dolly . 
But Toby and I had our own game to play , and we availed ourselves of the confusion which always reigns among a ship 's company preparatory to going ashore , to confer together and complete our arrangements . 
When our shipmates wondered at this , Toby exclaimed in his odd grave way that the rest might do as they liked , but that he for one preserved his go-ashore traps for the Spanish main , where the tie of a sailor 's neckerchief might make some difference ; but as for a parcel of unbreeched heathen , he would n't go to the bottom of his chest for any of them , and was half disposed to appear among them in buff himself . 
The men laughed at what they thought was one of his strange conceits , and so we escaped suspicion . 
This was the opportunity we desired , and Toby and I availed ourselves of it at once by stealing out of the canoe-house and plunging into the depths of an extensive grove that was in its rear . 
Since leaving the canoe-house we had scarcely exchanged a single syllable with one another ; but when we entered a second narrow opening in the wood , and again caught sight of the ridge before us , I took Toby by the arm , and pointing along its sloping outline to the lofty heights at its extremity , said in a low tone , `` Now , Toby , not a word , nor a glance backward , till we stand on the summit of yonder mountain -- so no more lingering , but let us shove ahead while we can , and in a few hour 's time we may laugh aloud . 
`` All right , brother , '' said Toby , `` quick 's our play ; only let 's keep close together , that 's all ; '' and so saying , with a bound like a young roe , he cleared a brook which ran across our path , and rushed forward with a quick step . 
We now reversed our order of march , I , being the heaviest , taking the lead , with a view of breaking a path through the obstruction , while Toby fell into the rear . 
Twenty minutes of this violent exercise almost exhausted me , but it carried us some way into the thicket ; when Toby , who had been reaping the benefit of my labors by following close at my heels , proposed to become pioneer in turn , and accordingly passed ahead with a view of affording me a respite from my exertions . 
As however with his slight frame he made but bad work of it , I was soon obliged to resume my old place again . 
But the few drops I managed to obtain gave me little relief , and I sank down for a moment with a sort of dogged apathy , from which I was aroused by Toby , who had devised a plan to free us from the net in which we had become entangled . 
He was laying about him lustily with his sheath-knife , lopping the canes right and left , like a reaper , and soon made quite a clearing around us . 
I began to think we were fairly snared , and had almost made up my mind that without a pair of wings we should never be able to escape from the toils ; when all at once I discerned a peep of daylight through the canes on my right , and , communicating the joyful tidings to Toby , we both fell to with fresh spirit , and speedily opening a passage towards it we found ourselves clear of perplexities , and in the near vicinity of the ridge . 
Elated with the success which had so far attended our enter prise , and invigorated by the refreshing atmosphere we now in haled , Toby and I in high spirits were making our way rapidly along the ridge , when suddenly from the valleys below which lay on either side of us we heard the distant shouts of the natives , who had just descried us , and to whom our figures , brought in bold relief against the sky , were plainly revealed . 
Mycuriosity had been not a little raised with regard to the description of country we should meet on the other side of the mountains ; and I had supposed , with Toby , that immediately on gaining the heights we should be enabled to view the large bays of Happer and Typee reposing at our feet on one side , in the same way that Nukuheva lay spread out below on the other . 
I accordingly proposed to Toby that we should enter into a joint examination of the various articles we had brought from the ship . 
But I paid slight attention to a substance of so little value to us in our present situation , as soon as I perceived the indications it gave of Toby 's foresight in laying in a supply of food for the expedition . 
I eagerly inquired what quantity he had brought with him , when , rummaging once more beneath his garment , he produced a small handful of something so soft , pulpy , and discolored , that for a few moments he was as much puzzled as myself to tell by what possible instrumentality such a villainous compound had become engendered in his bosom . 
Toby informed me that in the morning he had placed two whole biscuits in his bosom , with a view of munching them , should he feel so inclined , during our flight . 
In drawing this calico slowly from his bosom inch by inch , Toby reminded me of a juggler performing the feat of the endless ribbon . 
At first , Toby , with a degree of fastidiousness that seemed to me ill-timed , was for picking out the minute particles of tobacco with which the spongy mass was mixed ; but against this proceeding I protested , as by such an operation we must have greatly diminished its quantity . 
Each separate portion we immediately rolled up in the bit of silk prepared for it , and joining them all together into a small package , I committed them , with solemn injunctions of fidelity , to the custody of Toby . 
`` And so , '' said Toby , peering down into the chasm , `` every one that travels this path takes a jump here , eh ? '' 
`` Oh , no , Toby , '' I exclaimed , laughing ; `` but there 's something to be seen here , that 's plain , or there would have been no path , and I am resolved to find out what it is . '' 
`` Iwill tell you what , my pleasant fellow , '' rejoined Toby quickly , `` if you are going to pry into everything you meet with here that excites your curiosity , you will marvellously soon get knocked on the head ; to a dead certainly you will come bang upon a party of these savages in the midst of your discoverymakings , and I doubt whether such an event would particularly delight you . 
`` Aye , and from sleep too , and by the same token will give us sore throats , and rheumatisms into the bargain , '' cried Toby , with evident dislike at the idea . 
As I had anticipated , Toby , in spite of his previous remonstrances , followed my example , and dropping himself with the activity of a squirrel from point to point , he quickly outstripped me , and effected a landing at the bottom before I had accomplished two-thirds of the descent . 
Toby agreed with me in this view of the matter , and we immediately began gathering together the limbs of trees which lay scattered about , with the view of constructing a temporary hut for the night . 
As for poor Toby , I could scarcely get a word out of him . 
It would have been some consolation to have heard his voice , but he lay shivering the livelong night like a man afflicted with the palsy , with his knees drawn up to his head , while his back was supported against the dripping side of the rock . 
Poor Toby lifted up his head , and after a moment 's pause said , in a husky voice , `` Then , shipmate , my toplights have gone out , for it appears darker now with my eyes open than it did when they were shut . '' 
roared Toby in a rage , `` awake ! 
I now proposed to Toby that instead of rambling about the island , exposing ourselves to discovery at every turn , we should select some place as our fixed abode for as long a period as our food should hold out , build ourselves a comfortable hut , and be as prudent and circumspect as possible . 
-- A Wild Goose Chase -- My Sufferings -- Disheartening Situation -- A Night in a Ravine -- Morning Meal -- Happy Idea of Toby -- Journey towards the Valley . 
Recoveringfrom my astonishment at the beautiful scene before me , I quickly awakened Toby , and informed him of the discovery I had made . 
Toby insisted that it was the abode of the Happars , and I that it was tenanted by their enemies , the ferocious Typees . 
To be sure I was not entirely convinced by my own arguments , but Toby 's proposition to descend at once into the valley , and partake of the hospitality of its inmates , seemed to me to be risking so much upon the strength of a mere supposition , that I resolved to oppose it until we had more evidence to proceed upon . 
Added to this was the faintness consequent on our meagre diet -- a calamity in which Toby participated to the same extent as myself . 
But , ungrateful as the task was , we set about it with exemplary patience , and after a snail-like progress of an hour or more , had scaled perhaps one half of the distance , when the fever which had left me for awhile returned with such violence , and accompanied by so raging a thirst , that it required all the entreaties of Toby to prevent me from losing all the fruits of my late exertion , by precipitating myself madly down the cliffs we had just climbed , in quest of the water which flowed so temptingly at their base . 
Toby earnestly conjured me to continue the ascent , assuring me that a little more exertion would bring us to the summit , and that then in less than five minutes we should find ourselves at the brink of the stream , which must necessarily flow on the other side of the ridge . 
`` Do not , '' he exclaimed , `` turn back , now that we have proceeded thus far ; for I tell you that neither of us will have the courage to repeat the attempt , if once more we find ourselves looking up to where we now are from the bottom of these rocks ! '' 
Even Toby , although not suffering as I did , was not proof against the disheartening influences of the sight . 
Without exchanging a syllable upon the subject , Toby and myself simultaneously renounced the design which had lured us thus far -- perceiving in each other 's countenances that desponding expression which speaks more eloquently than words . 
We seated ourselves upon the least uncomfortable spot we could select , and Toby produced from the bosom of his frock the sacred package . 
As it was , I caught two or three naps , while Toby slept away at my side as soundly as though he had been sandwiched between two Holland sheets . 
`` Descend into that same valley we descried yesterday , '' rejoined Toby , with a rapidity and loudness of utterance that almost led me to suspect he had been slyly devouring the broadside of an ox in some of the adjoining thickets . 
`` What else , '' he continued , `` remains for us to do but that , to be sure ? 
`` ` Faith , I did n't think of that , '' said Toby ; `` sure enough , both sides of the valley appeared to be hemmed in by precipices , did n't they ? '' 
`` You are right , Toby , '' I exclaimed , `` you are right ; it must conduct us thither , and quickly too ; for , see with what a steep inclination the water descends . '' 
`` Amen to all that , and much more , '' shouted Toby , rushing forward ; `` but Happar it is , for nothing else than Happar can it be . 
Come on ; '' and so saying , he dashed along the ravine like a madman , forgetting my inability to keep up with him . 
In a few minutes , however , the exuberance of his spirits abated , and , pausing for a while , he permitted me to overtake him . 
Thefearless confidence of Toby was contagious , and I began to adopt the Happar side of the question . 
Toby prescribed as a remedy for my illness the contents of one of our little silk packages , to be taken at once in a single dose . 
To this species of medical treatment , however , I would by no means accede , much as he insisted upon it ; and so we partook of our usual morsel , and silently resumed our journey . 
`` What 's to be done now , Toby ? '' 
`` Very true , my dear Toby ; but how do you purpose accomplishing that desirable object ? '' 
began Toby , deliberately , with one of his odd looks : `` well , my lad , the result of my observations is very quickly imparted . 
With this he conducted me to the verge of the cataract , and pointed along the side of the ravine to a number of curious looking roots , some three or four inches in thickness , and several feet long , which , after twisting among the fissures of the rock , shot perpendicularly from it and ran tapering to a point in the air , hanging over the gulf like so many dark icicles . 
Toby 's scheme , and it was a desperate one , was to entrust ourselves to these treacherous-looking roots , and by slipping down from one to another to gain the bottom . 
asked Toby , looking at me earnestly , but without saying a word as to the practicability of the plan . 
After I had signified my assent , Toby , without uttering a single word , crawled along the dripping ledge until he gained a point from whence he could just reach one of the largest of the pendant roots ; he shook it -- it quivered in his grasp , and when he let it go it twanged in the air like a strong wire sharply struck . 
Satisfied by his scrutiny , my light-limbed companion swung himself nimbly upon it , and twisting his legs round it in sailor fashion , slipped down eight or ten feet , where his weight gave it a motion not unlike that of a pendulum . 
He could not venture to descend any further ; so holding on with one hand , he with the other shook one by one all the slender roots around him , and at last , finding one which he thought trustworthy , shifted himself to it and continued his downward progress . 
So far so well ; but I could not avoid comparing my heavier frame and disabled condition with his light figure and remarkable activity ; but there was no help for it , and in less than a minute 's time I was swinging directly over his head . 
As soon as his upturned eyes caught a glimpse of me , he exclaimed in his usual dry tone , for the danger did not seem to daunt him in the least , `` Mate , do me the kindness not to fall until I get out of your way ; '' and then swinging himself more on one side , he continued his descent . 
`` Pretty well done , '' shouted Toby underneath me ; `` you are nimbler than I thought you to be -- hopping about up there from root to root like any young squirrel . 
`` Aye , aye , Toby , all in good time : two or three more such famous roots as this , and I shall be with you . '' 
`` Another precipice for us , Toby . '' 
Toby , who invariably acted as pioneer , now proceeded to reconnoitre . 
On his return , he reported that the shelves of rock on our right would enable us to gain with little risk the bottom of the cataract . 
Toby as usual led the van , and in silence I waited to learn from him how he proposed to extricate us from this new difficulty . 
`` Yes , my dear Toby , but tell me howwe are to get out of it . '' 
Toby 's animating `` come on ! '' 
To the justice of these observations Toby somewhat reluctantly assented . 
We were surprised that , after moving as far as we had along the valley , we should still meet with the same impervious thickets ; and thinking that although the borders of the stream might be lined for some distance with them , yet beyond there might be more open ground , I requested Toby to keep a bright look-out upon one side , while I did the same on the other , in order to discover some opening in the bushes , and especially to watch for the slightest appearance of a path or anything else that might indicate the vicinity of the islanders . 
I hobbling over the ground like some decrepid wretch , and Toby leaping forward like a greyhound . 
He quickly cleared one of the trees on which there were two or three of the fruit , but to our chagrin they proved to be much decayed ; the rinds partly opened by the birds , and their hearts half devoured . 
I said nothing , but merely held it up to Toby , who started at this undeniable evidence of the vicinity of the savages . 
Could it have been thrown down by some solitary native , who , alarmed at seeing us , had hurried forward to carry the tidings of our approach to his countrymen ? 
Dropping my staff , and tearing open the package of things we had brought from the ship , I unrolled the cotton cloth , and holding it in one hand plucked with the other a twig from the bushes beside me , and telling Toby to follow my example , I broke through the covert and advanced , waving the branch in token of peace towards the shrinking forms before me . 
In doing this Toby went through with a complete series of pantomimic illustrations -- opening his mouth from ear to ear , and thrusting his fingers down his throat , gnashing his teeth and rolling his eyes about , till I verily believe the poor creatures took us for a couple of white cannibals who were about to make a meal of them . 
`` Typee or Happar , Toby ? '' 
The two natives interchanged glances of peculiar meaning with one another at this , and manifested no little surprise ; but on the repetition of the question , after some consultation together , to the great joy of Toby , they answered in the affirmative . 
Toby was now in ecstasies , especially as the young savages continued to reiterate their answer with great energy , as though desirous of impressing us with the idea that being among the Happars , we ought to consider ourselves perfectly secure . 
Although I had some lingering doubts , I feigned great delight with Toby at this announcement , while my companion broke out into a pantomimic abhorrence of Typee , and immeasurable love for the particular valley in which we were ; our guides all the while gazing uneasily at one another as if at a loss to account for our conduct . 
I turned to Toby ; the flickering light of a native taper showed me his countenance pale with trepidation at this fatal question . 
The same proceeding was gone through with Toby , whose mellifluous appellation was more easily caught . 
This display of awkwardness -- in which , by the bye , Toby kept me company -- convulsed the bystanders with uncontrollable laughter . 
As soon as their merriment had somewhat subsided , Mehevi , motioning us to be attentive , dipped the fore-finger of his right hand in the dish , and giving it a rapid and scientific twirl , drew it out coated smoothly with the preparation . 
With a second peculiar flourish he prevented the poee-poee from dropping to the ground as he raised it to his mouth , into which the finger was inserted , and drawn forth perfectly free from any adhesive matter . 
A starving man , however , little heeds conventional proprieties , especially on a South-Sea Island , and accordingly Toby and I partook of the dish after our own clumsy fashion , beplastering our faces all over with the glutinous compound , and daubing our hands nearly to the wrist . 
Toby , wearied with the fatigues of the day , slumbered heavily by my side ; but the pain under which I was suffering effectually prevented my sleeping , and I remained distressingly alive to all the fearful circumstances of our present situation . 
After waking Toby , they seated themselves round us on the mats , and gave full play to that prying inquisitiveness which time out of mind has been attributed to the adorable sex . 
Long and minute was the investigation with which they honored us , and so uproarious their mirth , that I felt infinitely sheepish ; and Toby was immeasurably outraged at their familiarity . 
This warlike personage , upon entering the house , seated himself at some distance from the spot where Toby and myself reposed , while the rest of the savages looked alternately from us to him , as if in expectation of something they were disappointed in not perceiving . 
The leech gazed intently from me to Toby , and then proceeded to business . 
Almost frantic with rage and pain , I yelled like a bedlamite ; while Toby , throwing himself into all the attitudes of a posturemaster , vainly endeavored to expostulate with the natives by signs and gestures . 
Whether my tormentor yielded to Toby 's entreaties , or paused from sheer exhaustion , I do not know ; but all at once he ceased his operations , and at the same time the chief relinquishing his hold upon me , I fell back , faint and breathless with the agony I had endured . 
Mehevi having now departed , and the family physician having likewise made his exit , we were left about sunset with the ten or twelve natives , who by this time I had ascertained composed the household of which Toby and I were members . 
As for Toby , he was allowed to help himself after his own fashion . 
After remaining about an hour , he rose from the mats , and motioning to leave the house , invited Toby and myself to accompany him . 
I pointed to my leg ; but Mehevi in his turn pointed to Kory-Kory , and removed that objection ; so , mounting upon the faithful fellow 's shoulders again -- like the old man of the sea astride of Sindbad -- I followed after the chief . 
This then , said I to Toby , must be the armory of the tribe . 
Toby lay still asleep , but our late companions had disappeared . 
Regarding this new phenomenon with no small degree of trepidation , I said to my companion , `` What can all this mean , Toby ? '' 
`` Oh , Toby ! 
exclaimed Toby indignantly . 
-- has he not been stuffing you with his confounded mushes , just in the way they treat swine before they kill them ? 
This view of the matter was not at all calculated to allay my apprehensions , and I shuddered when I reflected that we were indeed at the mercy of a tribe of cannibals , and that the dreadful contingency to which Toby had alluded was by no means removed beyond the bounds of possibility . 
`` Tommo , Toby , ki ki ! '' 
said Toby in his gruff tones ; `` well , cook us first , will you -- but what 's this ? '' 
he added , as another savage appeared , bearing before him a large trencher of wood , containing some kind of steaming meat , as appeared from the odors it diffused , and which he deposited at the feet of Mehevi . 
burst forth Toby , with amazing vehemence ; `` Veal : why there never was a calf on the island till you landed . 
The next morning , after being again abundantly feasted by the hospitable Mehevi , Toby and myself arose to depart . 
Attempt to procure relief from Nukuheva -- Perilous Adventure of Toby in the Happar Mountains -- Eloquence of Kory-Kory . 
said Toby on one occasion when I eulogised the tribe . 
At last , in the exigency to which I was reduced , I proposed to Toby that he should endeavor to go round to Nukuheva , and if he could not succeed in returning to the valley by water , in one of the boats of the squadron , and taking me off , he might at least procure me some proper medicines , and effect his return overland . 
The truth was , he felt impatient to escape from the place , and wished to avail himself of our present high favor with the natives to make good our retreat , before we should experience some sudden alteration in their behavior . 
As he could not think of leaving me in my helpless condition , he implored me to be of good cheer ; assured me that I should soon be better , and enabled in a few days to return with him to Nukuheva . 
Added to this , he could not bear the idea of again returning to this dangerous place ; and as for the expectation of persuading the Frenchmen to detach a boat 's crew for the purpose of rescuing me from the Typees , he looked upon it as idle ; and with arguments that I could not answer , urged the improbability of their provoking the hostilities of the clan by any such measure ; especially , as for the purpose of quieting its apprehensions , they had as yet refrained from making any visit to the bay . 
`` And even should they consent , '' said Toby , `` they would only produce a commotion in the valley , in which we might both be sacrificed by these ferocious islanders . '' 
This was unanswerable ; but still I clung to the belief that he might succeed in accomplishing the other part of my plan ; and at last I overcame his scruples , and he agreed to make the attempt . 
The grief and consternation of Kory-Kory , in particular , was unbounded ; he threw himself into a perfect paroxysm of gestures , which were intended to convey to us not only his abhorrence of Nukuheva and its uncivilized inhabitants , but also his astonishment that after becoming acquainted with the enlightened Typees , we should evince the least desire to withdraw , even for a time , from their agreeable society . 
However , I overbore his objections by appealing to my lameness ; from which I assured the natives I should speedily recover , if Toby were permitted to obtain the supplies I needed . 
These were intended to refresh Toby on his route . 
All that I could understand from him was that some accident had happened to Toby . 
Toby muckee moee ! '' 
alas Toby is killed ! 
Waving the natives off to give room and air , I bent eagerly over Toby , and , laying my hand upon the breast , ascertained that the heart still beat . 
In a few moments Toby revived , and opening his eyes for a second , closed them again without speaking . 
Kory-Kory , who had been kneeling beside me , now chafed his limbs gently with the palms of his hands , while a young girl at his head kept fanning him , and I still continued to moisten his lips and brow . 
Having done so , I thought it best to leave Toby undisturbed until he should have had time to rally his faculties . 
Several times he opened his lips , but fearful for his safety I enjoined silence . 
In the course of two or three hours , however , he sat up , and was sufficiently recovered to tell me what had occurred . 
`` After leaving the house with Marheyo , '' said Toby , `` we struck across the valley , and ascended the opposite heights . 
After mounting a little way up the elevation my guide paused , and gave me to understand that he could not accompany me any farther , and by various signs intimated that he was afraid to approach any nearer the territories of the enemies of his tribe . 
He however pointed out my path , which now lay clearly before me , and bidding me farewell , hastily descended the mountain . 
Such was Toby 's account of this sad affair . 
I afterwards learned that fortunately he had fallen close to a spot where the natives go for fuel . 
A party of them caught sight of him as he fell , and sounding the alarm , had lifted him up ; and after ineffectually endeavoring to restore him at the brook , had hurried forward with him to the house . 
Our Typee friends availed themselves of the recent disaster of Toby to exhort us to a due appreciation of the blessings we enjoyed among them ; contrasting their own generous reception of us with the animosity of their neighbors . 
A great Event happens in the Valley -- The Island Telegraph -- Something befalls Toby -- Fayaway displays a tender heart -- Melancholy reflections -- Mysterious conduct of the Islanders -- Devotion of Kory-Kory -- A rural couch -- A luxury -- Kory-Kory strikes a light à laTypee . 
Inthe course of a few days Toby had recovered from the effects of his adventure with the Happar warriors ; the wound on his head rapidly healing under the vegetable treatment of the good Tinor . 
One morning as I lay on the mats in the house , plunged in melancholy reverie , and regardless of everything around me , Toby , who had left me about an hour , returned in haste , and with great glee told me to cheer up and be of good heart ; for he believed , from what was going on among the natives , that there were boats approaching the bay . 
Sick and lame as I was , I would have started with Toby at once , had not Kory-Kory not only refused to carry me , but manifested the most invincible repugnance to our leaving the neighborhood of the house . 
I clearly perceived that while my attendant avoided all appearance of constraining my movements , he was nevertheless determined to thwart my wishes . 
He seemed to me on this particular occasion , as well as often afterwards , to be executing the orders of some other person with regard to me , though at the same time feeling towards me the most lively affection . 
Toby , who had made up his mind to accompany the islanders if possible , as soon as they were in readiness to depart , and who for that reason had refrained from showing the same anxiety that I had done , now represented to me that it was idle for me to entertain the hope of reaching the beach in time to profit by any opportunity that might then be presented . 
`` Do you not see , '' said he , `` the savages themselves are fearful of being too late , and I should hurry forward myself at once did I not think that if I showed too much eagerness I should destroy all our hopes of reaping any benefit from this fortunate event . 
In the expediency of this I could not but acquiesce ; and as the natives had now completed their preparations , I watched with the liveliest interest the reception that Toby 's application might meet with . 
I shook Toby warmly by the hand , and gave him my Payta hat to shield his wounded head from the sun , as he had lost his own . 
He cordially returned the pressure of my hand , and solemnly promising to return as soon as the boats should leave the shore , sprang from my side , and the next minute disappeared in a turn of the grove . 
All their accounts were contradictory : one giving me to understand that Toby would be with me in a very short time ; another that he did not know where he was ; while a third , violently inveighing against him , assured me that he had stolen away , and would never come back . 
Fearful lest some fatal calamity had overtaken him , I sought out young Fayaway , and endeavored to learn from her , if possible , the truth . 
At last , yielding to my importunities , she overcame her scruples , and gave me to understand that Toby had gone away with the boats which had visited the bay , but had promised to return at the expiration of three days . 
At first I accused him of perfidiously deserting me ; but as I grew more composed , I upbraided myself for imputing so cowardly an action to him , and tranquillized myself with the belief that he had availed himself of the opportunity to go round to Nukuheva , in order to make some arrangement by which I could be removed from the valley . 
At any rate , thought I , he will return with the medicines I require , and then , as soon as I recover , there will be no difficulty in the way of our departure . 
The next day passed without any allusion to Toby on the part of the natives , who seemed desirous of avoiding all reference to the subject . 
This raised some apprehensions in my breast ; but when night came , I congratulated myself that the second day had now gone by , and that on the morrow Toby would again be with me . 
Thus would I sometimes seek to derive a desperate consolation from dwelling upon the perfidy of Toby : whilst at other times I sunk under the bitter remorse which I felt as having by my own imprudence brought upon myself the fate which I was sure awaited me . 
But all these speculations were vain ; no tidings of Toby ever reached me ; he had gone never to return . 
It is true that the suspicious circumstances which had attended the disappearance of Toby were enough of themselves to excite distrust with regard to the savages , in whose power I felt myself to be entirely placed , especially when it was combined with the knowledge that these very men , kind and respectful as they were to me , were , after all , nothing better than a set of cannibals . 
An incident which occurred as nearly as I can estimate about three weeks after the disappearance of Toby , convinced me that the natives , from some reason or other , would interpose every possible obstacle to my leaving them . 
It sent a thrill of joy through my whole frame ; -- perhaps Toby was about to return . 
As soon as Mehevi noticed the effect the intelligence had produced upon me , and the impatience I betrayed to reach the sea , his countenance assumed that inflexible rigidity of expression which had so awed me on the afternoon of our arrival at the house of Marheyo . 
As I was proceeding to leave the Ti , he laid his hand upon my shoulder , and said gravely , `` abo , abo '' -LRB- wait , wait -RRB- . 
Solely intent upon the one thought that occupied my mind , and heedless of his request , I was brushing past him , when suddenly he assumed a tone of authority , and told me to `` moee '' -LRB- sit down -RRB- . 
Though struck by the alteration in his demeanor , the excitement under which I labored was too strong to permit me to obey the unexpected command , and I was still limping towards the edge of the pi-pi with Kory-Kory clinging to one arm in his efforts to restrain me , when the natives around started to their feet , ranged themselves along the open front of the building , while Mehevi looked at me scowlingly , and reiterated his commands still more sternly . 
No language can describe the wretchedness which I felt ; and in the bitterness of my soul I imprecated a thousand curses on the perfidious Toby , who had thus abandoned me to destruction . 
I should have mentioned that shortly after Toby 's disappearance , perceiving the uncertainty of the time I might be obliged to remain in the valley -- if , indeed , I ever should escape from it -- and considering that my whole wardrobe consisted of a shirt and a pair of trousers , I resolved to doff these garments at once , in order to preserve them in a suitable condition for wear should I again appear among civilized beings . 
For a moment I was overwhelmed with astonishment , and then answered something I know not what ; but as soon as I regained my self-possession , the thought darted through my mind that from this individual I might obtain that information regarding Toby which I suspected the natives had purposely withheld from me . 
When I related to him the circumstances under which Toby and I had entered it , he listened with evident interest ; but as soon as I alluded to the absence , yet unaccounted for , of my comrade , he endeavored to change the subject , as if it were something he desired not to agitate . 
It seemed , indeed , as if everything connected with Toby was destined to beget distrust and anxiety in my bosom . 
Notwithstanding Marnoo 's denial of any knowledge of his fate , I could not avoid suspecting that he was deceiving me ; and this suspicion revived those frightful apprehensions with regard to my own fate , which , for a short time past , had subsided in my breast . 
I could not conceal from my mind that Toby had been treated in the same friendly manner as I had been , and yet all their kindness terminated with his mysterious disappearance . 
Stimulated by these considerations , I urged anew my request to Marnoo ; but he only set forth in stronger colors the impossibility of my escape , and repeated his previous declaration that the Typees would never be brought to consent to my departure . 
When I endeavored to learn from him the motives which prompted them to hold me a prisoner , Marnoo again assumed that mysterious tone which had tormented me with apprehensions when I had questioned him with regard to the fate of my companion . 
Among these I perceived the two pieces of cotton-cloth which poor Toby and myself had bestowed upon our youthful guides the afternoon we entered the valley . 
The day after our arrival I happened to hand some tobacco to Toby over the head of a native who sat between us . 
He started up , as if stung by an adder ; while the whole company , manifesting an equal degree of horror , simultaneously screamed out `` taboo ! '' 
This occurred shortly after Toby 's disappearance ; and were it not that from the first moment I had entered the valley the natives had treated me with uniform kindness , I should have supposed that their conduct afterwards was to be ascribed to the fact that I had received this sacred investiture . 
A thousand times I thought how much more endurable would have been my lot had Toby still been with me . 
This glaring falsehood added to my alarm , and it was not until I reflected that I had observed the packages swinging from their elevation before Toby 's disappearance , that I could at all recover my composure . 
Nearlythree weeks had elapsed since the second visit of Marnoo , and it must have been more than four months since I entered the valley , when one day about noon , and whilst everything was in profound silence , Mow-Mow , the one-eyed chief , suddenly appeared at the door , and leaning forward towards me as I lay directly facing him , said in a low tone , `` Toby pemi ena '' -LRB- Toby has arrived here -RRB- . 
As soon as we had approached , I endeavored to make them understand that I was going down to the sea to meet Toby . 
Toby 's name was frequently repeated , coupled with violent exclamations of astonishment . 
It seemed as if they yet remained in doubt with regard to the fact of his arrival , and at every fresh report that was brought from the shore they betrayed the liveliest emotions . 
Toby too -- if indeed he had ever voluntarily deserted me -- must have effected his flight by the sea ; and now that I was drawing near to it myself , I indulged in hopes which I had never felt before . 
Impatient of the delay occasioned by this interruption , I was beseeching the man who carried me to proceed without his loitering companions , when Kory-Kory , running to my side , informed me , in three fatal words , that the news had all proved false -- that Toby had not arrived -- `` Toby owlee permi . '' 
Guided by this consideration , I turned to Mow-Mow , the only chief present whom I had been much in the habit of seeing , and carefully concealing my real design , tried to make him comprehend that I still believed Toby to have arrived on the shore , and besought him to allow me to go forward to welcome him . 
To all his repeated assertions , that my companion had not been seen , I pretended to turn a deaf ear : while I urged my solicitations with an eloquence of gesture which the one-eyed chief appeared unable to resist . 
The mystery which hung over the fate of my friend and companion Toby has never been cleared up . 
I still remain ignorant whether he succeeded in leaving the valley , or perished at the hands of the islanders . 
