`` My cousin Lincoln ! '' 
I must have forgotten my poor brother , and one also who is still so dear to us , not to have known you a true Lincoln ! '' 
The lady was sensibly pleased at this remark , and she suffered a smile to unbend her rigid brow , as she answered -- `` A home , certainly , though it be not such a one as the heir of the wealthy house of Lincoln may have been accustomed to dwell in . 
`` I am pleased to find you remember us then , cousin Lionel , '' said Mrs. Lechmere ; `` we have so little in this remote province that will compare with the mother country , I had feared no vestiges of the place of your birth could remain on your mind . '' 
There is a tradition in our family , that your seat in Devonshire is as large as any dozen edifices in Boston , public or private ; nay , we are proud of saying , that the king himself is lodged as well as the head of the Lincoln family , only when at his castle of Windsor ! '' 
`` Ravenscliffe is certainly a place of some magnitude , '' returned the young man , carelessly , `` though you will remember his majesty affects but little state at Kew . 
she is not apt to be so remiss in paying attention to our guests ! '' 
`` She does me the more honour , that she considers me a relative , and one who requires no formality in his reception . '' 
You see , cousin Lionel , how much we value the consanguinity , when it is a subject of pride to the most remote branches of the family ! '' 
`` Pardon me , major Lincoln ; her father , colonel Dynevor , was certainly an Englishman of an ancient and honourable name , but no family in the realm need scorn an alliance with our own . 
I say our own , cousin Lionel , for I would never have you forget that I am a Lincoln , and was the sister of your grandfather . '' 
Lionel mumbled a few words of thanks , and leaning back in his chair , threw his eyes upward , but whether in pious gratitude or not , we conceive it is not our province to determine . 
`` I may have appeared remiss , cousin Lionel , '' she said , `` but there are subjects that can be discussed with propriety , only between the nearest relatives . 
Sir Lionel -- you left him in as good a state of bodily health , I hope , as his mental illness will allow ? '' 
`` You have seen him lately ? '' 
`` Not in fifteen years ; my presence was said to increase his disorder , and the physicians forbade any more interviews . 
He continues at the private establishment near town , and , as the lucid intervals are thought to increase , both in frequency and duration , I often indulge in the pleasing hope of being restored again to my father . 
Pardon me , cousin Lionel , but this melancholy subject always overcomes me . 
Her absence just at that moment was too agreeable to the feelings of Lionel , for him to gainsay her intention ; though , instead of following Agnes Danforth , who had preceded her on the same duty , the tottering steps of Mrs. Lechmere conducted her to a door which communicated with her own apartment . 
`` My grandmother has long been expecting this pleasure , major Lincoln , '' she said , `` and your arrival has been at a most auspicious moment . 
The piercing eye of major Lincoln fell full upon her own , as she delivered this intention , and as it dropped on the floor , the slight smile that played round his lip , was produced by the passing thought , that the provincial beauty had inherited so much of her grandmother 's pride of genealogy , as to be willing to impress on his mind that the niece of a viscount was superior to the heir of a baronetcy . 
`` I perceive , my cousin Lionel , '' said the lady , as she moved with a feeble step toward the settee , `` that you and Cecil have found each other out , without the necessity of any other introduction than the affinity between you . 
`` Could I flatter myself with possessing the slightest resemblance to Miss Dynevor , in either of those particulars , I should be doubly proud of the connexion , '' returned Lionel , while he assisted the good lady to a seat , with a coolness that sufficiently denoted how little he cared about the matter . 
`` But I am not disposed to have my right to claim near kindred with cousin Lionel , at all disputed , '' cried the young lady , with sudden animation . 
But major Lincoln knows , that we in the colonies are apt to make the most of the language , and count our cousins almost as far as if we were members of the Scottish clans . 
`` There are various opinions on that subject , '' said Lionel . 
Lionel turned his looks , in a little surprise , on the speaker , to whose countenance an almost imperceptible cast in one eye , imparted a look of arch good nature that her manner would seem to contradict , and smiled as he repeated her words -- `` Why should they not , indeed ! 
Mrs. Lechmere had evidently permitted her niece to proceed thus far , without interruption , to serve some purpose of her own ; but perceiving that her guest by no means exhibited that air of pique which the British officers were so often weak enough to betray , when the women took into their hands the defence of their country 's honour , she rang the bell , as she observed -- `` Bold language , major Lincoln ! 
But we keep major Lincoln from his refreshments with our idle disputes . 
Notwithstanding the demand thus made on his attention , Lionel was able to discover a certain appearance of mystery and caution in each movement of the black as he proceeded leisurely in his duty . 
`` Pardon me , Miss Danforth , '' said Lionel , recollecting himself after he had accepted the offering ; `` I have suffered my sea-breeding to obtain the advantage . '' 
`` I know not how the subtle poison may operate on your English ladies , major Lincoln , but it is no difficult matter for an American girl to decline the use of a detestable herb , which is one , among many other , of the causes that is likely to involve her country and kindred in danger and strife . '' 
`` You at least , Miss Dynevor , '' said Lionel , `` appear to have no dislike to the herb , you breathe its vapour so freely . '' 
said Lionel , anxious to pursue the trifling , in order to remove the evident distance which had existed between them ; `` had Eve shut her ears as rigidly as you close your mouth against the offering , we might yet have enjoyed the first gift to our parents . '' 
said Lionel , not a little amused by her spirit . 
cried Lionel ; `` you may possibly resist the steams of tea , but what woman can withstand the impulse of her curiosity ! 
`` Hasten , Cato - major Lincoln , you are more active -- for heaven 's sake a glass of water -- Agnes , your salts . '' 
The amiable anxiety of her grand-child was not , however , so necessary as first appearances would have indicated , and Mrs. Lechmere gently put aside the salts , though she did not decline the glass , which Lionel offered for the second time in so short a period . 
`` I fear you will mistake me for a sad invalid , cousin Lionel , '' said the old lady , when she had become a little composed ; `` but I believe it is this very tea , of which so much has been said , and which I drink to excess , from pure loyalty , that unsettles my nerves -- I must refrain , like the girls , though from a very different motive . 
We are a people of early hours , major Lincoln , but you are at home here , and will pursue your pleasure ; I must , however , claim an indulgence for threescore-and-ten , and be permitted to wish you a good rest after your voyage . 
Leaning on her two assistants , the old lady withdrew , leaving Lionel to the full possession of the apartment . 
As the hour was getting late , and from the compliments they had exchanged , he did not expect the return of the younger ladies , he called for a candle , and was shown to his own room . 
Thesun was just stirring the heavy bank of fog , which had rested on the waters during the night , as Lionel toiled his way up the side of Beacon-Hill , anxious to catch a glimpse of his native scenery while it was yet glowing with the first touch of day . 
As Lionel stood on the brow of the platform that crowned the eminence , the glimpses of houses and hills , of towers and ships , of places known and places forgotten , passed before his vision , through the openings in the mist , like phantoms of the imagination . 
The whole scene , animated and in motion as it seemed by its changes , appeared to his excited feelings like a fanciful panorama , exhibited for his eye alone , when his enjoyment was interrupted by a voice apparently at no great distance . 
Lionel , after listening to this expressive ditty for a moment , followed the direction of the sounds until he encountered Job Pray , who was seated on one of the flights of steps which aided the ascent to the platform , cracking a few walnuts on the boards , while he employed those intervals , when his mouth could find no better employment , in uttering the above-mentioned strains . 
`` How now , master Pray , do you come here to sing your orisons to the goddess of liberty , on a Sunday morning , '' cried Lionel ; `` or are you the town lark , and for want of wings take to this height to obtain an altitude for your melody ? '' 
exclaimed Lionel , laughing . 
Job shook his head , threateningly , as he looked up and said , `` Do n't you let Ralph hear you say any thing ag ` in liberty ! '' 
Lionel gazed at the smoky column for a moment , when the mists began to dissolve , and , amid their evolutions , he beheld the dim figure of his aged fellow passenger . 
As the medium through which he was seen became less cloudy , his features grew visible , and Lionel could distinguish the uneasy , rapid glances of his eyes , which seemed to roam over the distant objects with an earnestness that appeared to mock the misty veil that was floating before so much of the view . 
While Lionel stood fixed to the spot , gazing at this irregular being with that secret awe which the other had succeeded in inspiring , the old man waved his hand impatiently , as if he would cast aside his shroud . 
The anxious , haggard , and severe expression of his countenance changed at the touch of the ray , and he smiled with a softness and attraction that thrilled the nerves of the other , as he called aloud to the sensitive young soldier -- `` Come hither , Lionel Lincoln , to the foot of this beacon , where you may gather warnings , which , if properly heeded , will guide you through many and great dangers , unharmed . '' 
`` I am glad you have spoken , '' said Lionel , advancing to his side ; `` you appeared like a being of another world , wrapped in that mantle of fog , and I felt tempted to kneel , and ask a benediction . '' 
`` The boy is a good boy , '' said the old man , stroking the head of the natural complacently ; `` we understand each other , major Lincoln , and that shortens introductions , and renders communion easy . '' 
`` The propensities of the mind in its infancy and in its maturity are but a span apart , '' said the stranger ; `` the amount of human knowledge is but to know how much we are under the dominion of our passions ; and he who has learned by experience how to smother the volcano , and he who never felt its fires , are surely fit associates . '' 
Lionel bowed in silence to an opinion so humbling to the other , and after a pause of a moment , adverted to their situation . 
`` The sun begins to make himself felt , and when he has driven away these ragged remnants of the fog , we shall see those places each of us have frequented , in his day . '' 
-- `` Sir , '' interrupted Lionel , `` if such allusions are made to the person of my sovereign , we must separate ; for it ill becomes a British officer to hear his master mentioned with levity . '' 
`` I must leave you , sir , '' said Lionel ; `` the opinions you so freely expressed during our passage , were on principles which I can hardly call opposed to our own constitution , and might be heard , not only without offence , but frequently with admiration ; but this language approaches to treason ! '' 
`` I could have thought , sir , that you might spare such a reproach to me , '' said Lionel . 
Lionel , sensibly touched , was about to reply in a suitable manner , when he heard a voice calling his own name aloud , as if the speaker were ascending the opposite acclivity of the hill . 
The instant the sounds reached his ears , the old man rose from his seat , on the foundation of the beacon , and gliding over the brow of the platform , followed by Job , they descended into a volume of mist that was still clinging to the side of the hill , with amazing swiftness . 
But , Leo , my dear fellow , I rejoice to see you -- we knew you were expected in the first ship , and as I was coming from morning parade , I met a couple of grooms in the ` Lincoln green , ' you know , leading each a blooded charger -- faith , one of them would have been quite convenient to climb this accursed hill on -- whew and whew-w , again -- well , I knew the liveries at a glance ; as to the horses , I hope to be better acquainted with them hereafter . 
During this voluble speech , which was interrupted by sundry efforts to regain the breath lost in the ascent , Lionel shook his friend cordially by the hand , and attempted to express his own pleasure at the meeting . 
The failure of wind , however , which was a sort of besetting sin with captain Polwarth , had now compelled him to pause , and gave time to Lionel for a reply . 
`` This hill is the last place where I should have expected to meet you , '' he said . 
`` Surely that is no great hardship to a soldier , '' returned Lionel ; `` and moreover , it seems to agree with you marvellously ! 
`` She is a woman of great qualifications , major Lincoln , '' said the lover , with a sudden gravity that indicated his gaiety of manner was not entirely natural . 
`` It would be idle for me to gainsay the charms of such a woman , '' returned Lionel , a good deal amused with the droll mixture of seriousness and humour in the other 's manner ; `` now for her connexion with the light-infantry -- she is not of the light corps of her own sex , Polwarth ? '' 
Pardon me , major Lincoln , I can not joke on this subject . 
`` There is a way , certainly , to check ungentleman-like liberties , '' said Lionel , gravely . 
`` But I marvel how Nesbit was induced to consent to the appointment , '' said Lionel ; `` he loves a little display . '' 
`` I have heard something of the affair already , '' returned Lionel , `` and was grieved to find the men justifying some of their own brutal conduct last night , by the example of their commander . '' 
asked major Lincoln , with a sensible interest in the subject . 
`` If it should come to blows , which heaven forbid , '' said major Lincoln , `` we shall be besieged where we now are . '' 
If the regiments I hear named are actually on the way , there will be eight thousand of us -- as good men as ever wore -- '' `` Light-infantry jackets , '' interrupted Lionel . 
major Lincoln , you are a happy man , '' said the captain ; `` a seat in Parliament at five-and-twenty ! 
`` Say nothing on that subject , I entreat you , '' whispered Lionel , pressing the arm of the other , as he rose ; `` 't is not filled by him who should occupy it , as you know -- shall we descend to the common ? 
They descended the hill , as Lionel replied , and their forms were soon blended with those of twenty others who wore scarlet coats , on the common . 
Young Lionel so far followed in the steps of his worthy parent , as to continue gathering honours and riches into his lap ; though , owing to an early disappointment , and the inheritance of the ` heir-loom ' already mentioned , it was late in life before he found a partner to share his happiness . 
The family of Lincoln , considering the shortness of their marriages , had been extremely prolific , while in the colonies , according to that wise allotment of providence , which ever seems to regulate the functions of our nature by our wants ; but the instant it was reconveyed to the populous island of Britain , it entirely lost its reputation for fruitfulness . 
Sir Lionel lived to a good age , married , but died childless , notwithstanding when his body lay in state , it was under a splendid roof , and in halls so capacious that they would have afforded comfortable shelter to the whole family of Priam . 
Leaving his wife and child behind him , Sir Lionel immediately proceeded to England , to assert his rights and secure his possessions . 
As he was the nephew , and acknowledged heir of the late incumbent , he met with no opposition to the more important parts of his claims . 
Across the character and fortunes of this gentleman , however , a dark cloud had early passed , which prevented the common eye from reading the events of his life , like those of other men , in its open and intelligible movements . 
After his accession to fortune and rank , but little was known of him , even by his earliest and most intimate associates . 
It was rumoured , it is true , that he had been detained in England , for two years , by a vexatious contention for a petty appendage to his large estates , a controversy which was , however , known to have been decided in his favour , before he was recalled to Boston by the sudden death of his wife . 
This calamity befell him during the period when the war of '56 was raging in its greatest violence : a time when the energies of the colonies were directed to the assistance of the mother-country , who , according to the language of the day , was zealously endeavouring to defeat the ambitious views of the French , in this hemisphere ; or , what amounted to the same thing in effect , in struggling to advance her own . 
To the amazement of all who knew his fortunes , Sir Lionel Lincoln was seen to embark in many of the most desperate adventures that distinguished the war , with a hardihood that rather sought death than courted honour . 
He had been , like his father , trained to arms , but the regiment in which he held the commission of Lieutenant Colonel , was serving his master in the most eastern of his dominions , while the uneasy soldier was thus rushing from point to point , hazarding his life , and more than once shedding his blood , in the enterprises that signalized the war in his most western . 
Finally , the assertion was made with much more of the confidence of truth , that the unhappy Sir Lionel was the tenant of a private mad-house . 
The instant this rumour was circulated , a film fell from every eye , and none were so blind as not to have seen indications of insanity in the Baronet long before ; and not a few were enabled to trace his legitimate right to lunacy through the hereditary bias of his race . 
Consequently , when Lionel arrived in Boston , he found a few batteries thrown up on the eminences , some of which were intended as much to control the town , as to repel an enemy from without , while lines were drawn across the neck which communicated with the main . 
Inthe course of the succeeding week Lionel acquired a knowledge of many minor circumstances relating to the condition of the colonies , which may be easily imagined as incidental to the times , but which would greatly exceed our limits to relate . 
He was received by his brethren in arms with that sort of cordiality that a rich , high-spirited , and free , if not a jovial comrade , was certain of meeting among men who lived chiefly for pleasure and appearance . 
It was soon generally understood , that major Lincoln , though intending to serve with the army in America , should the sad alternative of an appeal to arms become necessary , had permission to amuse himself in such a manner as he saw fit , for two months from the date of his arrival . 
There was nothing , however , in the deportment , or manner of life adopted by Lionel , to justify any of these conjectures . 
He continued to dwell in the house of Mrs. Lechmere , in person , though , unwilling to burthen the hospitality of his aunt too heavily , he had taken lodgings in a dwelling at no great distance , where his servants resided , and where , it was generally understood , that his visits of ceremony and friendship were to be received . 
But as the establishment of Lionel was supported with much of that liberality which was becoming in a youth of his large fortune , the exuberant light-infantry officer found many sources of consolation in the change , which could not have existed , had the staid Mrs. Lechmere presided over the domestic department . 
Lionel and Polwarth had been boys together at the same school , members of the same college at Oxford , and subsequently for many years , comrades in the same corps . 
On the present occasion , the captain took charge of the internal economy of Lionel 's lodgings , with a zeal which he did not even pretend was disinterested . 
By the rules of the regiment he was compelled to live nominally with the mess , where he found his talents and his wishes fettered by divers indispensable regulations , and economical practices , that could not be easily over-leaped ; but with Lionel , just such an opportunity offered for establishing rules of his own , and disregarding expenditure , as he had been long pining for in secret . 
With this disposition of things , therefore , he became well content , and within the first fortnight after the arrival of Lionel , it became known to the mess , that captain Polwarth took his dinners regularly with his old friend , major Lincoln ; though in truth the latter was enjoying , more than half the time , the hospitality of the respective tables of the officers of the staff . 
In the mean time Lionel cultivated his acquaintance in Tremont-street , where he still slept , with an interest and assiduity that the awkwardness of his first interview would not have taught us to expect . 
With Mrs. Lechmere , it is true , he made but little progress in intimacy ; for , equally formal , though polite , she was at all times enshrouded in a cloud of artificial , but cold management , that gave him little opportunity , had he possessed the desire , to break through the reserve of her calculating temperament . 
With his more youthful kinswomen , the case was , however , in a very few days , entirely reversed . 
Agnes Danforth , who had nothing to conceal , began insensibly to yield to the manliness and grace of his manner , and before the end of the first week , she maintained the rights of the colonists , laughed at the follies of the officers , and then acknowledged her own prejudices , with a familiarity and good-humour that soon made her , in her turn , a favourite with her English cousin , as she termed Lionel . 
But he found the demeanor of Cecil Dynevor much more embarrassing , if not inexplicable . 
Full many an hour did Lionel ponder on this unaccountable difference in the manner of this young lady , at different moments . 
There was a secret excitement in the very caprices of her humours , that had a piquant interest in his eyes , and which , aided by her exquisite form and intelligent face , gradually induced him to become a more close observer of their waywardness , and consequently a more assiduous attendant on her movements . 
In consequence of this assiduity , the manner of Cecil grew , almost imperceptibly , less variable , and more uniformly fascinating , while Lionel , by some unaccountable oversight , soon forgot to note its changes , or even to miss the excitement . 
Many of those stormy days occurred in the middle of April , and during their continuance Lionel was necessarily compelled to keep himself housed . 
He had retired from the parlour of Mrs. Lechmere , one evening , when the rain was beating against the windows of the house , in nearly horizontal lines , to complete some letters which , before dining , he had commenced to the agent of his family , in England . 
On entering his own apartment , he was startled to find the room which he had left vacant , and which he expected to find in the same state , occupied in a manner that he could not anticipate . 
As he stepped within the door his eye fell upon one of these shadows , which extended along the wall , and bending against the cieling , exhibited the gigantic but certain outlines of the human form . 
Recollecting that he had left his letters open , and a little distrusting the discretion of Meriton , Lionel advanced lightly , for a few feet , so far as to be able to look round the drapery of his bed , and to his amazement , perceived that the intruder was not his valet , but the aged stranger . 
The old man sat holding in his hand the open letter which Lionel had been writing , and continued so deeply absorbed in its contents , that the footsteps of the other were still disregarded . 
A large , coarse over-coat , dripping with water , concealed most of his person , though the white hairs that strayed about his face , and the deep lines of his remarkable countenance could not be mistaken . 
`` I was ignorant of this unexpected visit , '' said Lionel , advancing quickly into the centre of the room , `` or I should not have been so tardy in returning to my apartment , where , sir , I fear you must have found your time irksome , with nothing but that scrawl to amuse you . '' 
The haughty and displeased look disappeared from the countenance of Lionel at this sight , and he was on the point of speaking in a more conciliating manner , when the stranger , whose eye had not quailed before the angry frown it encountered , anticipated his intention . 
`` I comprehend you , major Lincoln , '' he said , calmly ; `` but there can exist justifiable reasons for a greater breach of faith than this , of which you accuse me . 
`` It does , '' said Lionel , deeply affected by the melancholy tones of his voice , `` it does , it does , and I will listen to no further explanation on the unpleasant subject . 
`` I see much here , Lionel Lincoln , of which a father would have reason to be proud , '' returned the old man . 
said Lionel , drawing a chair nigh to his aged companion , and seating himself with an air of powerful interest that he could not control . 
After an impressive pause , he continued , though his tones were husky and low -- `` I have been both husband and parent , in my day , but 't is so long since , that no selfish tie remains to bind me to earth . 
`` Say not so , '' interrupted Lionel , `` for you do injustice to your own warm nature -- you forget your zeal in behalf of what you deem these oppressed colonies . '' 
Lionel dropped his eyes , in embarrassment , to the floor , as he answered -- `` You can not have very many years , surely , to hope for ; but with the activity and temperance you possess , days and months confine you , I trust , in limits much too small . '' 
`` Well , then , Lionel Lincoln , old , feeble , and on the threshold of eternity as I stand , yet am I not nearer to my grave than that country to which you have pledged your blood is to a mighty convulsion , which will shake her institutions to their foundations . '' 
`` I can not admit the signs of the times to be quite so portentous as your fears would make them , '' said Lionel , smiling a little proudly . 
The face of the stranger lighted with a sudden and startling gleam of intelligence , and a sarcastic smile passed across his wan features , as he answered slowly -- `` They only have cause to fear who will be the losers by the change ! 
The pride of Lionel was touched ; and remembering an engagement he had previously made with his aged friend to accompany him to a scene like this , he made such changes in his dress as would serve to conceal his profession , threw on a large cloak to protect his person , and was about to lead the way himself , when he was aroused by the voice of the other . 
`` You mistake the route , '' he said ; `` this is to be a secret , and I hope a profitable visit -- none must know of your presence ; and if you are a worthy son of your honourable father , I need hardly add that my faith is pledged for your discretion . '' 
`` The pledge will be respected , Sir , '' said Lionel , haughtily ; `` but in order to see what you wish , we are not to remain here ? '' 
The passage was dark and narrow , but , observing the warnings of his companion , Lionel succeeded in descending , in safety , a flight of steps which formed a private communication between the offices of the dwelling and its upper apartments . 
They paused an instant at the bottom of the stairs , where the youth expressed his amazement that a stranger should be so much more familiar with the building than he who had for so many days made it his home . 
`` Have I not often told you , '' returned the old man , with a severity in his voice which was even apparent in its suppressed tones , `` that I have known Boston for near an hundred years ! 
He now opened a door which conducted them through one end of the building , into the courtyard in which it was situated . 
As they emerged into the open air , Lionel perceived the figure of a man , crouching under the walls , as if seeking a shelter from the driving rain . 
said Lionel , stopping to face the unknown ; `` whom have we skulking in our footsteps ? '' 
Lionel mused on the singular and indefinable interest that he took in the movements of his companion , which could draw him at a time like this from the shelter of Mrs. Lechmere 's roof , to wander he knew not whither , and on an errand which might even be dangerous to his person . 
Still he followed , unhesitatingly , for with these passing thoughts were blended the recollection of the many recent and interesting communications he had held with the old man during their long and close association in the ship ; nor was he wanting in a natural interest for all that involved the safety and happiness of the place of his birth . 
He kept the form of his aged guide in his eye , as the other moved before him , careless of the tempest which beat on his withered frame , and he heard the heavy footsteps of Job in his rear who had closed so near his own person as to share , in some measure , in the shelter of his ample cloak . 
At such times Lionel was compelled to pause , and even frequently to recede a little from his path , while his guide , supported by his high purpose , and but little obstructed by his garments , seemed , to the bewildered imagination of his follower , to glide through the night with a facility that was supernatural . 
At length the old man , who had got some distance ahead of his followers , suddenly paused , and allowed Lionel to approach to his side . 
The latter observed with surprise , that he had stopped before the root and stump of a tree which had once grown on the borders of the street , and which appeared to have been recently felled . 
returned Lionel ; `` I see here nothing but the stump of some tree ; surely the ministers of the king are not answerable that it stands no longer ? '' 
Lionel turned to wards Job , and perceived , by the obscure light of the moon , to his surprise , that the changeling stood with his head bared to the storm , regarding the root with an extraordinary degree of reverence . 
he said ; `` what do you know about this stump to stand in awe of , boy ? '' 
said Job , with great contempt in his manner . 
said Lionel , unconsciously drawing back from the spot ; `` was it ever a gallows ! '' 
`` Lionel , who was familiar with the peculiar sound that his townsmen gave to the letter u , now comprehended the allusion to the Earl of Bute , and beginning to understand more clearly the nature of the transactions , and the uses to which that memorable tree had been applied , he expressed his desire to proceed . 
The old man had suffered Job to make his own explanations , though not without a curious interest in the effect they would produce on Lionel ; but the instant the request was made to advance , he turned , and once more led the way . 
As it was Sunday , the first impression of Lionel , on entering the room , was that his old friend , who often betrayed a keen sensibility on subjects of religion , had brought him there with a design to listen to some favourite exhorter of his own peculiar tenets , and as a tacit reproach for a neglect of the usual ordinances of that holy day , of which the conscience of the young man suddenly accused him , on finding himself unexpectedly mingled in such a throng . 
A very few minutes sufficed to teach Lionel that he was in the midst of a meeting collected to discuss questions connected with the political movements of the times , though he felt himself a little at a loss to discover the precise results it was intended to produce . 
Lionel was peculiarly struck with the language of these written opinions , which were expressed with a purity , and sometimes with an elegance of style , which plainly showed that the acquaintance of the sober artisan with the instrument through whose periods he was blundering , was quite recent , and far from being very intimate . 
A deep but manly respect was evidently paid to this gentleman , by those who stood nearest to his person ; and once or twice there were close and earnest communications passing between him and the more ostensible leaders of the meeting , which roused the suspicions of Lionel in the manner related . 
Lionel was so situated as to be able to keep his person , which was partly concealed by the taller forms that surrounded him , in constant view ; nor was it long before his earnest and curious gaze caught the attention of the other . 
Lionel raised himself from his reclining attitude against the wall , and submitted to be carried by the current of human bodies into the dark passage through which he had entered the room . 
Here he lingered a moment , with a view to recover his lost companion , and with a secret wish to scan more narrowly the proceedings of the man whose air and manner had so long chained his attention . 
`` Does Major Lincoln meet his countrymen tonight as one who sympathizes in their wrongs , or as the favoured and prosperous officer of the crown ? '' 
demanded Lionel . 
`` Perhaps , sir , it would be indiscreet just now to disavow that title , let my dispositions be as they may , '' returned Lionel , smiling a little haughtily ; `` this may not be as secure a spot in which to avow one 's sentiments , as the town-common , or the palace of St. James . '' 
Lionel now finding himself alone , groped his way into the street , where he perceived Ralph and the changeling in waiting for his appearance . 
`` Surely every thing I have heard and seen tonight , confirms such an opinion , '' returned Lionel . 
So much Lionel was able to comprehend , but notwithstanding the old man muttered vehemently to himself for some time longer , it was in a tone too indistinct for his ear to understand his meaning . 
When they arrived in a part of the town with which Lionel was familiar , his aged guide pointed out his way , and took his leave , saying -- `` I see that nothing but the last , and dreadful argument of force , will convince you of the purpose of the Americans to resist their oppressors . 
Lionel would have spoken in reply , but the rapid steps of Ralph rendered his wishes vain , for before he had time to utter , his emaciated form was seen gliding , like an immaterial being , through the sheets of driving rain , and was soon lost to the eye , as it vanished in the dim shades of night , followed by the more substantial frame of the ideot . 
Two or three days of fine , balmy , spring weather succeeded to the storm , during which Lionel saw no more of his aged fellow-voyager . 
Job , however , attached himself to the British soldier with a confiding helplessness that touched the heart of his young protector , who gathered from the circumstance a just opinion of the nature of the abuses that the unfortunate changeling was frequently compelled to endure from the brutal soldiery . 
Meriton performed the functions of master of the wardrobe to the lad , by Lionel 's express commands , with evident disgust , but with manifest advantage to the external appearance , if with no very sensible evidence of additional comfort to his charge . 
During this short period , the slight impression made on Lionel by the scene related in the preceding chapter , faded before the cheerful changes of the season , and the increasing interest which he felt in the society of his youthful kinswomen . 
Polwarth and Lionel had found an officer , who had formerly served in the same regiment with them in the British Islands , in command of a company of grenadiers , which formed part of the garrison of Boston . 
He was , in consequence of this double claim on the notice of Lionel , a frequent guest at the nightly banquets prepared by Polwarth . 
`` He reasons like an army contractor , who wishes to make one ration do the work of two , when transportation is high , '' said M`Fuse , winking to Lionel . 
interrupted M`Fuse , with an affectation of great contempt in his manner -- `` now , sir , we have them with butter , and without butter , that counts two ; then we have the fruit p ` aled ; and -- '' `` Impaled , '' said Lionel , laughing . 
`` The king is r ` yal and fla ` nty , but neighbour Sage lets Job come in and eat , like a christian . '' 
`` The poor fellow finds but little at home to tempt him to remain there , I fear , '' said Lionel ; `` and as he was one of the first acquaintances I made on returning to my native land , I have desired Mr. Sage to admit him at all proper hours ; and especially , Polwarth , at those times when he can have an opportunity of doing homage to your skill . '' 
`` I have known the fact , any time these ten days , by your moanings , '' returned Lionel ; `` but what do you argue from this particular exercise , captain M`Fuse ? 
He was the owner of the house in which Lionel had taken his quarters . 
His family had been some time before removed into the country , under the pretence of his inability to maintain them in a place destitute of business and resources like Boston ; but he remained himself , for the double purpose of protecting his property and serving his guests . 
This man partook , in no small degree , of the qualities , both of person and mind , which distinguish a large class among his countrymen . 
In the former he was rather over than under the middle stature ; was thin , angular , and awkward , but possessing an unusual proportion of sinew and bone . 
His eyes were small , black , scintillating , and it was not easy to fancy that the intelligence they manifested was unmingled with a large proportion of shrewd cunning . 
Thus called upon , on a sudden , by Polwarth for an opinion , Seth answered , with the cautious reserve with which he invariably delivered himself -- `` The adjutant is an uneasy man , but that , I suppose , is so much the better for a light-infantry officer . 
Lionel and Polwarth laughed aloud , and the former observed -- `` You appear not to come to conclusions with our host , captain M`Fuse , notwithstanding so much is determined . 
`` Do you know , '' said Lionel , gravely , `` that such an attempt would lead directly to a civil war ? '' 
`` And you speak of it , sir , as a thing not to be deprecated , or averted by every possible means in the power of the nation ! '' 
`` There is some deeper meaning to so extraordinary an order , '' interrupted Lionel ; `` there goes the tap of the tattoo , this instant ! 
`` This bears some meaning , gentlemen , '' said Lionel , `` and it is necessary to be looked to -- if either corps leaves the town to-night , I will march with it as a volunteer , for it is my business , just now , to examine into the state of the country . '' 
`` One of the men who has been on leave , has just got in , and reports that a squad of gentlemen from the army dined near them , your honour , and that as night set in they mounted and began to patrole the roads in that direction . 
`` All this confirms my conjectures , '' cried Lionel -- `` there is a man who might now prove of important service -- Job -- where is the simpleton , Meriton ? '' 
`` Curiosity has led him to the barracks , '' said Lionel , `` where duty calls you , gentlemen . 
The bustle of a general departure succeeded ; Lionel threw his cloak into the arms of Meriton , to whom he delivered his orders , took his arms , and making his apologies to his guests , he left the house with the manner of one who saw a pressing necessity to be prompt . 
M`Fuse proceeded to equip himself with the deliberation of a soldier who was too much practised to be easily disconcerted . 
When Lionel issued into the street , he found a deep darkness already enveloping the peninsula of Boston , as if nature had lent herself to the secret designs of the British commandant . 
The fine strain of a shrill fife was playing among the naked hills of the place , accompanied by the occasional and measured taps of the sullen drum ; and , at moments , the full , rich notes of the horns would rise from the common , and borne on the night-air , sweep along the narrow streets , causing the nerves of the excited young soldier to thrill with a stern pleasure , as he stepped proudly along . 
The rattling of Lionel 's side-arms as he pointed with his hand in the direction of the illuminated apartment , taught the soldier that he was addressed by his superior , and he answered respectfully -- `` It does not become one such as I , to pretend to know much of what his betters do , your honour , but I stood before the quarters of General Wolfe the very night we went up to the Plains of Abram ; and I think an old soldier can tell when a movement is at hand , without asking his superiors any impertinent questions . '' 
said Lionel . 
`` A good-night to you , my old comrade , '' said Lionel , walking away ; `` 't is probably some consultation concerning the new exercises that you practise . '' 
A very few minutes now brought Lionel before the low door of Abigail Pray , where he again stopped , struck with the contrast between the gloomy , dark , and unguarded threshold over which he was about to pass , and the gay portal he had just left . 
Urged , however , by his feelings , the young man paused but a moment before he tapped lightly for admission . 
After repeating his summons , and hearing no reply , he lifted the latch , and entered the building without further ceremony . 
The large and vacant apartment in which he found himself , was silent and dreary as the still streets he had quitted . 
Groping his way towards the little room in the tower , where he had met the mother of Job , as before related , Lionel found that apartment also tenantless , and dark . 
He was turning in disappointment , to quit the place , when a feeble ray fell from the loft of the building , and settled on the foot of a rude ladder which formed the means of communication with its upper apartments . 
Like the basement , the building was subdivided here , into a large , open ware-room , and a small , rudely-finished apartment in each of its towers . 
The old man was seated on the only broken chair which the loft contained , and before him , on the simple bundle of straw which would seem , by the garments thrown loosely over the pile , to be intended as his place of rest , lay a large map , spread for inspection , which his glazed and sunken eyes appeared to be intently engaged in making . 
Lionel hesitated again , while he regarded the white hairs which fell across the temples of the stranger , as he bowed his head in his employment , imparting a wild and melancholy expression to his remarkable countenance , and seeming to hallow their possessor by the air of great age and attendant care that they imparted . 
`` I have come to seek you , '' the young man at length said , `` since you no longer deem me worthy of your care . '' 
`` I intend to accompany the detachment into the country , '' said Lionel -- `` it will probably take post at some little distance in the interior , and it will afford me a fitting opportunity to make those inquiries which you know are so near my heart , and in which you have promised to assist -- it is to consult on the means that I have now sought you . '' 
The countenance of the stranger seemed to lose its character of melancholy reflection , as Lionel spoke , and his eyes moved , vacant and unmeaning , over the naked rafters above him , passing in their wanderings across the surface of the unheeded map again , until they fell full upon the face of the astonished youth , where they remained settled for more than a minute , fixed in the glazed , rivetted look of death . 
The lips of Lionel had already opened in anxious inquiry , when the expression of life shot again into the features of Ralph , with the suddenness , and with an appearance of the physical reality with which light flashes from the sun when emerging from a cloud . 
Lionel exclaimed . 
`` Pardon me , '' said Lionel , dropping his eyes in embarrassment , and speaking with hesitation , `` but your present abode , and the appearance of your attire , is an evidence that old age has come upon you when you are not altogether prepared to meet its sufferings . '' 
The firm , if not haughty , manner in which the other repeated his desire , taught Lionel that he had nothing more to expect at present , and he obeyed reluctantly , by slowly leaving the apartment , and as soon as he had descended the ladder he began to retrace his steps towards his own quarters . 
In crossing the light draw-bridge thrown over the narrow dock , already mentioned , his contemplations were first disturbed by the sounds of voices , at no great distance , apparently conversing in tones that were not intended to be heard by every ear . 
It was a moment when each unusual incident was likely to induce inquiry , and Lionel stopped to examine two men , who , at a little distance , held their secret and suppressed communications . 
He had , however , paused but an instant , when the whisperers separated , one walking leisurely up the centre of the square , entering under one of the arches of the market-place , and the other coming directly across the bridge on which he himself was standing . 
exclaimed Lionel ; `` what secrets can you have , that require the cover of night ? '' 
exclaimed Lionel , `` return to your home and your bed ; here is money to buy food for your mother if she suffers -- you will draw a shot from some of the sentinels by going about the harbour thus at night . '' 
Lionel resumed his walk , and was passing the head of the square when he encountered , face to face , under the light of a lamp , the man whose figure he had seen but a minute before to issue from beneath the town-hall . 
A mutual desire to ascertain the identity of each other drew them together . 
`` We meet again , Major Lincoln , '' said the interesting stranger Lionel remembered to have seen at the political meeting . 
`` Certainly , sir , it is not for me to prohibit the intercourse , '' returned Lionel . 
Without waiting for any reply , the stranger took a different direction from that which Lionel was pursuing , and walked away with the swiftness of one who was pressed with urgent business . 
Lionel soon ascended into the upper part of the town , with the intention of going into Tremontstreet , to communicate his design to accompany the expedition . 
It was now apparent to the young man , that a rumour of the contemplated movement of the troops was spreading secretly , but swiftly , among the people . 
In Tremont-street Lionel found no appearance of that excitement which was spreading so rapidly in the old and lower parts of the town . 
He passed into his own room without meeting any of the family , and having completed his brief arrangements , he was descending to inquire for his kinswomen , when the voice of Mrs. Lechmere , proceeding from a small apartment , appropriated to her own use , arrested his steps . 
Anxious to take leave in person , he approached the half-open door , and would have asked permission to enter , had not his eye rested on the person of Abigail Pray , who was in earnest conference with the mistress of the mansion . 
`` A man aged , and poor , say you ? '' 
echoed Mrs. Lechmere , her lip trembling more with apprehension than age ; `` and he arrived with Major Lincoln , say you ? '' 
`` You have the rights of a woman , and of first possession , '' said Mrs. Lechmere , with that unyielding severity of manner that Lionel had often observed before ; `` I would turn him into the street , like a dog . '' 
It was by no trifling exertion of his breeding that Lionel was enabled to profit by the inability of Mrs. Lechmere to reply , and to turn away from the spot , and cease to listen to a conversation that was not intended for his ear . 
Major Lincoln returned from his revels thus early , and armed like a bandit , to his teeth ! '' 
exclaimed the playful voice of Cecil Dynevor , who , unheeded , was in possession of the opposite seat , when he entered the room . 
Lionel started , and rubbed his forehead , like a man awaking from a dream , as he answered -- `` Yes , a bandit , or any other opprobrious name you please ; I deserve them all . '' 
`` Surely , '' said Cecil , turning pale , `` none other dare use such language of Major Lincoln , and he does it unjustly ! '' 
cried Lionel , recovering his recollection ; `` I was lost in thought , and heard your language without comprehending its meaning . '' 
`` Still you are armed ; a sword is not a usual instrument at your side , and now you bear even pistols ! '' 
`` Yes , '' returned the young soldier , laying aside his dangerous implements ; `` yes , I am about to march as a volunteer , with a party that go into the country to-night , and I take these because I would affect something very warlike , though you well know how peaceably I am disposed . '' 
said Cecil , catching her breath , and turning pale -- `` And does Lionel Lincoln volunteer on such a duty ? '' 
`` I volunteer to perform no other duty than to be a witness of whatever may occur -- you are not more ignorant yourself of the nature of the expedition than I am at this moment . '' 
The blood rushed across the fine features of Lionel , but he laughed as he arose to depart , saying -- `` You compel me to beat the retreat , my spirited coz . 
If I have my usual fortune in this forage , your larder , however , shall be the better for it . 
`` I would , Lincoln , that you were not to go , '' she said , when they stopped on the threshold -- `` it is not required of you as a soldier ; and as a man your own feelings should teach you to be tender of your countrymen . '' 
`` No -- no -- I distrust no one , Major Lincoln -- go -- go -- and -- and -- we shall see you , Lionel , the instant you return . '' 
Lionel turned his head toward the common , and listened long and anxiously , but in vain , to detect a single sound that could betray any unusual stir among the soldiery . 
Towards the interior , the darkness of night had fallen heavily , dimming the amphitheatre of hills that encircled the place , and enshrouding the vales and lowlands between them and the water with an impenetrable veil of gloom . 
There were moments , indeed , when he imagined he overheard some indications among the people of the opposite shore that they were apprised of the impending descent , but on listening more attentively , the utmost of which his ear could assure him , was the faint lowing of cattle from the meadows , or the plash of oars from a line of boats , which , by stretching far along the shores , told both the nature and the extent of the watchfulness that was deemed necessary for the occasion . 
While Lionel stood thus , on the margin of the little platform of earth that had been formed by levelling the apex of the natural cone , musing on the probable results of the measure his superiors had been resolving to undertake , a dim light shed itself along the grass , and glancing upward , danced upon the beacon with strong and playful rays . 
`` Scoundrel ! '' 
`` I would answer by asking how you dare to apply so rude an epithet to me , did I not see the cause of your error , '' said Lionel . 
`` You must then believe in the traditional witchcraft of this country , for nothing short of necromancy could have enabled me to light those combustibles at this distance . '' 
`` You are nearer the truth , this time , than in your first conjecture as to my character , '' said Lionel ; `` but have I met one of the gentlemen of our mess ? '' 
He added that he had been ordered to watch on the hill to prevent any of the inhabitants lighting the beacon , or making any other signal which might convey into the country a knowledge of the contemplated inroad . 
`` This matter wears a more serious aspect than I had supposed , '' returned Lionel , when the young man had ended his apologies and explanation ; `` the commander-in-chief must intend more than we are aware of , by employing officers in this manner , to do the duties of privates . '' 
Lionel did listen attentively , and plainly distinguished the measured step of a body of disciplined men , moving rapidly across the common , as if marching towards the water-side . 
Hastily bidding his companion good-night , he threw himself over the brow of the hill , and taking the direction of the sounds , he arrived at the shore at the same instant with the troops . 
Two dark masses of human bodies were halted in order , and as Lionel skirted the columns , his experienced eye judged that the force collected before him , could be but little short of a thousand men . 
A group of officers was clustered on the beach , and he approached it , rightly supposing that it was gathered about the leader of the party . 
This officer proved to be the Lieutenant-Colonel of the 10th , who was in close conversation with the old Major of Marines , alluded to by the sentinel who stood before the gates of Province-house . 
Lionel now found his groom , who had followed the troops with his master 's horses , and after giving his orders to the man , he proceeded in quest of his friend Polwarth , who he soon discovered , posted in all the stiffness of military exactness , at the head of the leading platoon of the column of light-infantry . 
As it was apparent , both from the position they occupied , as well as by the boats that had been collected at the point , that the detachment was not to leave the peninsula by its ordinary channel of communication with the country , there remained no alternative but to await patiently the order to embark . 
Polwarth had established himself by the side of Lionel , much to the ease of his limbs , and as they moved slowly into the light , all those misgivings which had so naturally accompanied his musings on the difficulties of a partisan irruption , vanished before the loveliness of the time , and possibly before the quietude of the action . 
`` There are moments when I could fancy the life of a sailor , '' he said , leaning indolently back , and playing with one hand in the water -- `` this pulling about in boats is easy work , and must be capital assistance for a heavy digestion , inasmuch as it furnishes air with as little violent exercise as may-be -- your marine should lead a merry life of it ! '' 
`` They are said to murmur at the clashing of their duties with those of the sea-officers , '' said Lionel ; `` and I have often heard them complain of a want of room to make use of their legs . '' 
`` You forget the officer of light-infantry , '' said Lionel , laughing . 
`` Your name was certainly mentioned , '' returned Lionel , a little dryly -- `` she intimated that the hen-roosts were in danger . '' 
`` The precautions of a whole day should hardly be defeated by the tell-tale notes of our music , '' said Lionel ; `` your spirits get the better of your discretion . 
Lionel ordered his groom to take the route of the troops with the horses , and placing himself once more by the side of the captain , they proceeded at the appointed signal . 
`` Now for the shades of old Harvard ! '' 
Lionel seized him by the arm , and before the disconcerted captain had time to recollect himself , he was borne through a wide pool of stagnant water , mid-leg deep . 
Lionel had turned his head from studying the surprise depicted in the faces of the members of one of these disturbed families , when the deep tones of a distant church-bell came sweeping down the valley in which they marched , ringing peel on peel , in the quick , spirit-stirring sounds of an alarm . 
In this manner the detachment continued to proceed for some hours , without halting , and Lionel imagined that they had advanced several leagues into the country . 
Lionel had hardly spoken before an order was passed to the light-infantry to look to their arms , and for the grenadiers to prime and load . 
Lionel pressed forward with a beating heart for a crowd of horrors rushed across his imagination at the moment , when the stern voice of the major of marines was again heard , shouting -- `` Disperse , ye rebels , disperse ! 
-- throw down your arms , and disperse ! '' 
exclaimed Lionel , `` what is it you do ? 
But the excitement which had been gathering to a head for so many hours , and the animosity which had so long been growing between the troops and the people , were not to be repressed at a word . 
Before this was effected , however , a few scattering shot were thrown back from their flying adversaries , though without material injury to the British . 
Every eye was bent inquiringly on the fatal green , and Lionel beheld , with a feeling allied to anguish , a few men at a distance , writhing and struggling in their wounds , while some five or six bodies lay stretched upon the grass , in the appalling quiet of death . 
Sickening at the sight , he turned , and walked away by himself , while the remainder of the troops , alarmed by the reports of the arms , were eagerly pressing up from the rear to join their comrades . 
Unwittingly he approached the church , nor did he awake from the deep abstraction into which he had fallen , until he was aroused by the extraordinary spectacle of Job Pray , issuing from the edifice with an air in which menace was singularly blended with resentment and fear . 
The changeling pointed earnestly to the body of a man , who , having been wounded , had crept for refuge near to the door of the temple in which he had so often worshipped that being to whom he had been thus hurriedly sent to render his last and great account , and said solemnly -- `` You have killed one of God 's creatures ; and he 'll remember it ! '' 
`` I would it were one only , '' said Lionel ; `` but they are many , and none can tell where the carnage is to cease . '' 
They 'll take this up in old Funnel , and ` twill ring again , from the north-end to the Neck . '' 
`` What can they do , boy , after all , '' said Lionel , forgetting at the moment that he whom he addressed had been denied the reason of his kind -- `` the power of Britain is too mighty for these scattered and unprepared colonies to cope with and prudence would tell the people to desist from resistance while yet they may . '' 
demanded Lionel , suddenly recollecting himself ; `` did you not tell me that you were going out to fish for your mother . '' 
said Lionel , eagerly -- `` can Ralph be with you , then ! 
Lionel was far too generous to practise on the simplicity of his companion , with a view to extract any secret which might endanger his liberty , but he felt a deep concern in the welfare of a young man who had been thrown in his way in the manner already related . 
He therefore pursued the subject , with the double design to advise Job against any dangerous connexions , and to relieve his own anxiety on the subject of the aged stranger . 
But to all his interrogatories the lad answered guardedly , and with a discretion which denoted that he possessed no small share of cunning , though a higher order of intellect had been denied him . 
`` I repeat to you , '' said Lionel , losing his patience , `` that it is important for me to meet the man you call Ralph in the country , and I wish to know if he is to be seen near here . '' 
Boy , I ask you for the last time whether the old man -- '' Perceiving Job to shrink back timidly , and lower in his looks , Lionel paused , and casting a glance behind him , beheld the captain of grenadiers standing with folded arms , silently contemplating the body of the American . 
`` Will you have the goodness to explain to me , Major Lincoln , '' said the captain , when he perceived himself observed , `` why this man lies here dead ? '' 
`` I must leave that question to be answered by our superiors , captain M`Fuse , '' returned Lionel . 
`` Tell me , Major Lincoln -- you are certainly but a young soldier , though , being of the staff , you should know -- does Gage think we can have a war with the arms and ammunition all on one side ? 
`` I do not know that I rightly understand you , sir , '' said Lionel ; `` there can be but little glory gained by such troops as we possess , in a contest with the unarmed and undisciplined inhabitants of any country . '' 
`` There is much reason to fear that others may use the same term in speaking of the affair , '' returned Lionel ; `` God knows how much cause we may have to lament the death of the poor man ! '' 
`` Here is one who may tell you that they are not to be treated like children either , '' said Lionel , turning to the place which had been so recently occupied by Job Pray , but which , to his surprise , he now found vacant . 
When Lionel rejoined his friend he found him at the head of his men , marching with so grave an air , as at once induced the Major to give him credit for regrets much more commendable than such as were connected with his physical distress . 
The files were once more opened for room , as well as for air , which was becoming necessary , as a hot sun began to dissipate the mists of the morning , and shed that enervating influence on the men so peculiar to the first warmth of an American Spring . 
`` This has been a hasty business altogether , Major Lincoln , '' said Polwarth , as Lionel took his wonted station at the side of the other , and dropped mechanically into the regular step of the party -- `` I know not that it is quite as lawful to knock a man in the head as a bullock . '' 
`` Perhaps , sir , '' returned Lionel sharply , `` you have consulted the animals of the country too closely to be acquainted with its spirits ? '' 
spare me the remainder , '' interrupted Lionel -- `` too much has been said already to prove the inferiority of the American to the European animal , and your reasoning is conclusive . '' 
echoed Lionel , with bitter emphasis ; `` yes , we shall be called on to pass resolutions to commend the decision of the General , and the courage of the troops ; and then , after we have added every possible insult to the injury , under the conviction of our imaginary supremacy , we may hear of some paltry sum to the widows and orphans , cited as an evidence of the unbounded generosity of the nation ! '' 
The opinion expressed by his companion , concerning the martial propensities of the Americans , was one too common among the troops to excite any surprise in Lionel , but disgusted with the illiberality of the sentiment , and secretly offended at the supercilious manner with which the other expressed these injurious opinions of his countrymen , he continued his route in silence , while Polwarth speedily lost his loquacious propensity , in a sense of the fatigue that assailed every muscle and joint in his body . 
Lionel was not long in discovering from such of the inhabitants as remained , that , notwithstanding their approach had been known for some time , the events of that morning were yet a secret from the people of the village . 
The few male inhabitants who remained in their dwellings , were of necessity peaceable , though Lionel could read in their flushed cheeks and gleaming eyes , the secret indignation of men , who , accustomed to the protection of the law , now found themselves subjected to the insults and wanton abuses of a military inroad . 
Notwithstanding it was apparent that they who brought the intelligence were anxious to give it the most favourable aspect , he soon discovered that the same body of Americans which had retired at their approach , having attempted to return to their homes in the town , had been fired on at the bridge , and in the skirmish which succeeded , the troops had been compelled to give way with loss . 
The privates caught the infection from their officers , and Lionel saw , that in place of the high and insulting confidence with which the troops had wheeled into the streets of Concord , that they left them , when the order was given to march , with faces bent anxiously on the surrounding heights , and with looks that bespoke a consciousness of the dangers that were likely to beset the long road which lay before them . 
While the men from the towns behind them , pressed upon their rear , the population in their front accumulated in bodies , like a rolling ball of snow , and before half the distance between Concord and Lexington was accomplished , Lionel perceived that the safety of their boasted power was in extreme jeopardy . 
Lionel listened to this , and much other similar discourse , with a vacant ear ; but as the combat thickened , the blood of the young man began to course more swiftly through his veins ; and at length , excited by the noise and the danger which was pressing more closely around them , he mounted , and riding to the commander of the detachment , tendered his assistance as a volunteer aid , having lost every other sensation in youthful blood , and the pride of arms . 
Even as Lionel approached , a heavy sheet of fire flashed from a close barn-yard , full in the faces of the leading files , sending the swift engines of death into the very centre of the party . 
While venting such terrible denunciations and commands , which were drawn from the peaceable captain by the force of circumstances , Lionel beheld his friend disappear amid the buildings of the farm-yard in a cloud of smoke , followed by his troops . 
In a few minutes afterwards , as the line toiled its way up the hill on which this scene occurred , Polwarth re-appeared , issuing from the fray with his face blackened and grimed with powder , while a sheet of flame arose from the spot which soon laid the devoted buildings of the unfortunate husbandman in ruins . 
Lionel endeavoured to encourage his friend to new exertions , and turning away from their leader , spoke cheeringly , and with a martial tone , to his troops . 
The men cheered as they passed , and dashed forward to new encounters ; the Americans yielding sullenly , but necessarily , to the constant charges of the bayonet , to which the regulars resorted to dislodge them . 
As the advance moved on again , Lionel turned to contemplate the scene in the rear . 
The attacks were growing extremely spirited , and not unfrequently close and bloody , though the discipline of the troops enabled them still to bear up against this desultory and divided warfare , when Lionel heard , with a pleasure he could not conceal , the loud shouts that arose from the van , as the cheering intelligence was proclaimed through the ranks , that the cloud of dust in their front was raised by a chosen brigade of their comrades , which had come most timely to their succour , with the Heir of Northumberland at its head . 
Polwarth threw himself flat on the earth , as Lionel dismounted at his side , and his example was followed by the whole party , who lay panting , under the heat and fatigue , like worried deer , that had succeeded in throwing the hounds from their scent . 
`` As I am a gentleman of simple habits , and a man innocent of all this bloodshed , Major Lincoln , '' said the captain , `` I pronounce this march to be a most unjust draft on the resources of human nature . 
`` We must not contest this idle point , '' returned Lionel , `` for I see the troops are about to dine ; and we have need of every moment to reach Boston before the night closes around us . 
`` Surely no man among us is so mad as to talk of moving from this spot short of a week -- it would take half that time to receive the internal refreshment necessary to our systems , and the remainder to restore us healthy appetites . '' 
The intelligence of Lionel was nevertheless true ; for after a short halt , allowing barely time enough to the troops to eat a hasty meal , the drums again beat the signal to march , and Polwarth , as well as many hundred others , was reluctantly compelled to resume his feet , under the penalty of being abandoned to the fury of the exasperated Americans . 
While the troops were in a state of rest , the field-pieces of the reinforcement kept their foes at a distance , but the instant the guns were limbered , and the files had once more opened for room , the attacks were renewed from every quarter , with redoubled fury . 
`` Few of us would ever arrive in the morning , if we left the Americans a night to gather in ; and a halt of an hour would lose us the advantages of the whole march , '' returned Lionel -- `` Cheer up , my old comrade , and you will establish your reputation for activity for ever -- here comes a party of the Provincials over the crest of the hill to keep you in employment . '' 
Polwarth cast a look of despair at Lionel , as he muttered in reply -- `` Employment ! 
Lionel was enabled to trace their route , far towards the north , by the bright red spots , which lay scattered in alarming numbers along the highway , and in the fields through which the troops occasionally moved . 
Whenever the ground or the circumstances admitted of a regular attack , the dying confidence of the troops would seem restored , and they moved up to the charge with the bold carriage which high discipline inspires , rending the air with shouts , while their enemies melted before their power in sullen silence , never ceasing to use their weapons however , with an expertness that rendered them doubly dangerous . 
Over one body , Lionel pulled the reins of his horse , and he paused a moment to consider the spectacle . 
It was the lifeless form of a man , whose white locks , hollow cheeks , and emaciated frame , denoted that the bullet which had stricken him to the earth had anticipated the irresistible decrees of time but a very few days . 
exclaimed Lionel , observing that the shadow of another spectator fell across the wan features of the dead -- `` who can tell where this torrent of blood can be stayed , or how many are to be its victims ! '' 
It was the major of marines , who sat looking at the sight , for a minute , with an eye as vacant as the one that seemed to throw back his wild gaze , and then rousing from his trance , he buried his rowels in the flanks of his horse , and disappeared in the smoke that enveloped a body of the grenadiers , waving his sword on high , and shouting -- `` On -- push on with the advance ! '' 
Major Lincoln slowly followed , musing on the scene he had witnessed , when , to his surprise , he encountered Polwarth , seated on a rock by the roadside , looking with a listless and dull eye at the retreating columns . 
Checking his charger , he inquired of his friend if he were hurt . 
`` Only melted , '' returned the captain ; `` I have outdone the speed of man this day , Major Lincoln , and can do no more . 
If you see any of my friends in dear England , tell them that I met my fate as a soldier should , stationary ; though I am actually melting away in rivulets , like the snows of April . '' 
Lionel would have continued his remonstrances , but a fierce encounter between a flanking party of the troops and a body of Americans , drove the former close upon him , and leaping the wall he rallied his comrades , and turned the tide of battle in their favour . 
He was drawn far from the spot by the vicissitudes of the combat , and there was a moment , while passing from one body of the troops to another , that he found himself unexpectedly alone , in a most dangerous vicinity to a small wood . 
The hurried call of `` pick off that officer , '' first aroused him to his extreme danger , and he had mechanically bowed himself on the neck of his charger , in expectation of the fatal messengers , when a voice was heard among the Americans , crying , in tones that caused every nerve in his body to thrill -- `` Spare him ! 
for the love of that God you worship , spare him ! '' 
The overwhelming sensations of the moment prevented flight , and the young man beheld Ralph , running with frantic gestures , along the skirts of the cover , beating up the fire-arms of twenty Americans , and repeating his cries in a voice that did not seem to belong to a human being -- then , in the confusion which whirled through his brain , Lionel thought himself a prisoner , as a man , armed with a long rifle , glided from the wood , and laid his hand on the rein of his bridle , saying earnestly -- `` 'T is a bloody day , and God will remember it ; but if Major Lincoln will ride straight down the hill , the people wont fire for fear of hitting Job -- and when Job fires , he 'll shoot that granny who 's getting over the wall , and there 'll never be a stir about it in Funnel-Hall . '' 
Lionel wheeled away quicker than thought , and as his charger took long and desperate leaps down the slight declivity , he heard the shouts of the Americans behind him , the crack of Job 's rifle , and the whizzing of the bullet which the changeling sent , as he had promised , in a direction to do him no harm . 
On gaining a place of comparative safety , he found Pitcairn in the act of abandoning his bleeding horse , the close and bitter attacks of the Provincials rendering it no longer safe for an officer to be seen riding on the flanks of the detachment . 
Lionel , though he valued his steed highly , had also received so many intimations of the dangerous notice he had attracted , that he was soon obliged to follow this example , and he saw , with deep regret , the noble animal scouring across the fields with a loose rein , snorting and snuffing the tainted air . 
He now joined a party of the combatants on foot , and continued to animate them to new exertions during the remainder of the tedious way . 
From the moment the spires of Boston met the view of the troops , the struggle became intensely interesting . 
Lionel stood leaning against a fence , as this fine body of men , which a few hours before had thought themselves equal to a march through the colonies , defiled slowly and heavily by him , dragging their weary and exhausted limbs up the toilsome ascent of Bunker-Hill . 
The haughty eyes of most of the officers were bent to the earth in shame ; and the common herd , even in that place of security , cast many an anxious glance behind them , to assure themselves that the despised inhabitants of the Province were no longer pressing on their footsteps . 
Platoon after platoon passed , each man compelled to depend on his own wearied limbs for support , until Lionel at last saw a solitary horseman slowly ascending among the crowd . 
Lionel and Polwarth passed the strait with the first division of the wounded , the former having no duty to detain him any longer with the detachment , and the latter stoutly maintaining that his corporeal sufferings gave him an undoubted claim to include his case among the casualties of the day . 
Perhaps no officer in the army of the king felt less chagrin at the result of this inroad than Major Lincoln ; for notwithstanding his attachment to his Prince , and adopted country , he was keenly sensitive on the subject of the reputation of his real countrymen ; a sentiment that is honourable to our nature , and which never deserts any that do not become disloyal to its purest and noblest impulses . 
Even while he regretted the price at which his comrades had been taught to appreciate the characters of those whose long and mild forbearance had been misconstrued into pusillanimity , he rejoiced that the eyes of the more aged would now be opened to the truth , and that the mouths of the young and thoughtless were to be for ever closed in shame . 
Although the actual losses of the two detachments were probably concealed from motives of policy , it was early acknowledged to amount to about one-sixth of the whole number employed . 
On the wharf , Lionel and Polwarth separated ; the latter agreeing to repair speedily to the private quarters of his friend , where he promised himself a solace for the compulsory abstinence and privations of his long march , and the former taking his way towards Tremont-street , with a view to allay the uneasiness which the secret and flattering whisperings of hope taught him to believe his fair young kinswomen would feel in his behalf . 
As Lionel tapped at the door of Mrs. Lechmere , he forgot his fatigue ; and when it opened , and he beheld Cecil standing in the hall , with every lineament of her fine countenance expressing the power of her emotions , he no longer remembered those trying dangers he had so lately escaped . 
`` Lionel ! '' 
Then , indeed , she remarked , with a smile of triumph seated on her arch features -- `` Your march has been well attended , Major Lincoln ; from the upper windows I have seen some of the honours which the good people of the Massachusetts have paid to their visiters . '' 
`` On my soul , if it were not for the dreadful consequences which must follow , I rejoice as well as yourself , in the events of the day , '' said Lincoln ; `` for a people are never certain of their rights , until they are respected . '' 
`` Tell me then all , cousin Lincoln , that I may know how to boast of my parentage . '' 
`` Now , then , '' she exclaimed , as he ended , `` there is an end for ever of those biting taunts that have so long insulted our ears ! 
But you know , '' she added , with a slight blush , and a smile most comically arch , `` I had a double stake in the fortunes of the day -- my country and my true love ! '' 
`` Really , '' exclaimed the wilful girl , clasping her hands in affected astonishment , though Lionel thought he could read inward satisfaction at his intelligence -- `` the prodigies of the man exceed belief ! 
though , after the repulse of two thousand British soldiers by a body of husbandmen , I am prepared for an exceeding use of my credulity . '' 
`` The moment is then auspicious for my friend , '' whispered Lionel , rising to follow the flitting form of Cecil Dynevor , which he saw gliding into the opposite room , as Polwarth himself entered the apartment -- `` credulity is said to be the great weakness of your sex , and I must leave you a moment exposed to the failing , and that , too , in the dangerous company of the subject of our discourse . '' 
`` I trust Lincoln has done justice to my service , '' returned the good-humoured captain , `` and that he has not neglected to mention the manner in which I rescued his steed from the rebels . '' 
`` The what , sir , '' interrupted Agnes , with a frown -- `` how did you style the good people of Massachusetts-Bay ? '' 
`` I should have said the excited dwellers in the land , I believe . 
She withdrew as Lionel re-entered , passing him on the threshold . 
cried Polwarth -- `` 't is a dog 's life , Leo , and this girl treats me like a cart-horse ! 
`` My first business on leaving you was to borrow a conveyance of a friend , in which I rode to your place ; and my next was to write to little Jimmy Craig , to offer an exchange of my company for his -- for from this hour henceforth I denounce all light-infantry movements , and shall take the first opportunity to get back again into the dragoons , as soon as I have effected which , major Lincoln , I propose to treat with you for the purchase of that horse -- after that duty was performed , for , if self-preservation be commendable , it became a duty , I made out a bill of fare for Meriton , in order that nothing might be forgotten ; after which , like yourself Lionel , I hastened to the feet of my mistress -- Ah ! 
Major Lincoln , you are a happy man ; for you , there is no reception but smiles -- and charms so '' -- `` Talk not to me sir , of smiles , '' interrupted Lionel , impatiently , `` nor of the charms of woman . 
Then you , too , Lionel , have been treated like a dog ! '' 
`` Like a fool , as I am , '' said Lionel , pacing haughtily over the ground at a rate that soon threw his companion too far in the rear to admit of further discourse until they reached the place of their destination . 
Here , to the no small surprise of both gentlemen , they found a company collected that neither was prepared to meet . 
In one corner of the room , Seth Sage was posted , with the appearance of a man in duresse , his hands being tied before him , from which depended a long cord that might , on emergency , be made to serve the purpose of a halter . 
cried Lionel , regarding the scene with a curious eye ; `` of what offence has Mr. Sage been guilty , that he bears those bonds ? '' 
By the Lord , I 'll carry ye back to Ireland with me , and I 'll hang ye up in the green Island itself , and bury ye , in the heart of winter , in a bog '' -- `` But what is the offence , '' demanded Lionel , `` that calls forth these severe threats ? '' 
said Lionel , turning quickly away from Job , with a view to prevent a reply that might endanger the safety of the changeling ; `` did you not only mingle in this rebellion , Mr. Sage , but also attempt the life of a gentleman who may be said , almost , to be an inmate of your own house ? '' 
`` If this be true we must give him into the hands of the proper authorities , '' said Lionel , smiling at the confused account of the angry captain -- `` for it remains to be seen yet what course will be adopted with the prisoners in this singular contest . '' 
demanded Lionel . 
exclaimed Lionel -- `` Yes , Concurd , '' returned Seth , laying great stress on the first syllable , and speaking with an air of extreme innocence -- `` it lies here-away , say twenty or one-and-twenty miles '' -- `` Damn your Concords and your miles too , '' cried Polwarth ; `` is there a man in the army who can forget the deceitful place ! 
`` Enough , '' said Lionel ; `` the man has acknowledge sufficient already to justify us in transferring him to the custody of others -- let him be taken to the main guard , and delivered as a prisoner of this day . '' 
`` Your property shall be protected , and I hope your life may not be in jeopardy , '' returned Lionel , waving his hand for those who guarded him to proceed . 
Seth turned , and left his own dwelling with the same quiet air which had distinguished him throughout the day ; though there were occasional flashes from his quick , dark eyes , that looked like the glimmerings of a fading fire . 
As Seth and his train disappeared , Lionel cast a furtive look at Job , who was a quiet and apparently an undisturbed spectator of the scene , and then turned his attention suddenly to his guests , as if fearful the folly of the changeling might betray his agency also in the deeds of the day . 
`` Hold '' -- interrupted Lionel , arresting his excited companion by the arm -- `` remember , we are soldiers , and that the boy is not a responsible being . 
No tribunal would ever sentence such an unfortunate creature to a gibbet ; and in general he is as harmless as a babe -- '' `` The devil burn such babes -- a pretty fellow is he to kill a man of six feet ! 
Job continued perfectly unmoved in his chair , and the captain , ashamed of his resentment against such unconscious imbecility , was soon persuaded to abandon his intentions of revenge , though he continued muttering his threats against the provincials , and his denunciations against such `` an unmanly spacies of warfare , '' until the much-needed repast was ended . 
Polwarth having restored the equilibrium of his system by a hearty meal , hobbled to his bed , and M`Fuse , without any ceremony , took possession of another of the apartments in the tenement of Mr. Sage . 
The servants withdrew to their own entertainment , and Lionel , who had been sitting for the last half hour in melancholy silence , now unexpectedly found himself alone with the changeling . 
exclaimed Lionel , as he met the unmeaning eye of the other , `` did I not warn you that wicked men might endanger your life ! 
`` How came the troops in arms ag ` in Job ? '' 
`` True , true , '' said Lionel , hastily -- `` I owe my life to you , and that debt shall be cancelled at every hazard . 
exclaimed Lionel , stopping in his hurried walk across the room , and where is he ? '' 
`` He here too ! 
is the man crazed -- would not his fears teach him -- '' `` Fears ! '' 
`` Come , then , '' said Lionel , taking his hat , `` let us go to him -- I must save him from the effects of his own rashness , though it cost my commission ! '' 
He left the room while speaking , and the simpleton followed close at his heels , well content with having executed his mission without encountering any greater difficulties . 
`` This play is the image of a murder done in Vienna : `` Gonzago is the Duke 's name ; his wife , Baptista : `` You shall see , anon ; 't is a knavish piece of work . '' 
Theagitation and deep excitement produced by the events of the day , had not yet subsided in the town , when Lionel found himself again in its narrow streets . 
Men passed swiftly by him , as if bent on some unusual and earnest business ; and more than once the young soldier detected the triumphant smiles of the women , as they looked curiously out on the scene , from their half-open windows , and their eyes detected the professional trappings of his dress . 
As Lionel passed leisurely along , he perceived that the grenadier to whom he had spoken on the preceding evening , again held his watch before the portal of the governors . 
`` Your experience did not deceive you , my old comrade , '' said Lionel , lingering a moment to address him -- `` we have had a warm day . '' 
`` So it is reported in the barracks , your honour , '' returned the soldier -- `` our company was not ordered out , and we are to stand double duty . 
I hope to God the next time there is any thing to do , the grenadiers of the -- th may not be left behind -- it would have been for the credit of the army had they been in the field to-day . '' 
`` There is no disgrace where there is no misconduct , '' said Lionel . 
Lionel passed slowly on , musing on that deep-rooted prejudice , which had even taught this humble menial of the crown to regard with contempt a whole nation , because they were believed to be dependants . 
The moon had not yet risen , and Lionel passed under the dark arches of the market with a quick step , as he now remembered that one in whom he felt so deep an interest awaited his appearance . 
Job , who had followed in silence , glided by him on the drawbridge , and stood holding the door of the old building in his hand , when he reached its threshold . 
Lionel found the large space in the centre of the warehouse , as usual , dark and empty , though the dim light of a candle glimmered through the fissures in a partition which separated an apartment in one of the little towers that was occupied by Abigail Pray , from the ruder parts of the edifice . 
But the changeling had also detected the whispering sounds , and it would seem with a more cunning ear , for he turned and darted through the door of the building with a velocity that did not abate until Lionel , who watched his movements with amazement , saw his shuffling figure disappear among the shambles of the market-place . 
Thus deserted by his guide , Lionel groped his way towards the place where he believed he should find the door which led into the tower . 
The light deceived him , for as he approached it , his eye glanced through one of the crevices of the wall , and he again became an unintentional witness of another of those interviews which evinced the singular and mysterious affinity between the fortunes of the affluent and respected Mrs. Lechmere and the miserable tenant of the warehouse . 
Until that moment , the hurry of events , and the crowd of reflections which had rushed over the mind of the young man throughout the busy time of the last twenty-four hours , had prevented his recalling the hidden meaning of the singular discourse of which he had already been an auditor . 
Lionel thought his aunt cast an uneasy and embarrassed glance at her companion , which he construed into an expression that betrayed there were secrets even between these strange confidants ; but the momentary surprise exhibited in her features , soon gave place to her habitual look of guarded and severe formality ; and she replied , with an air of coldness , as if she would repulse any approach to an acknowledgment of their common transgression -- `` The woman talks like one who is beside herself ! 
Lionel heard the faltering , husky tones of his aunt , as they appeared to die in her throat , but nothing more was distinctly audible , until , after a long pause , she raised her face , and looked about her again with her severe , unbending eye , and continued -- `` Enough of this folly , Abigail Pray -- I have come to learn more of your strange inmate -- '' `` Oh ! 
By changing the position of his body a little , Lionel was now enabled to command a view of the whole apartment . 
In the door-way stood Ralph , immovable in his attitude , with one hand raised high towards heaven , and the other pointing impressively downward , as if about to lay bare the secrets of that tomb of which his wasted limbs , and faded lineaments marked him as a fit tenant , while his searching eye-balls glared about him , from the face of one to the other , with that look of quickness and penetration , that Abigail Pray had so well described as ` scorching . ' 
Amazed at what he had witnessed , and concerned for the apparent insensibility of his aunt , whose great age rendered such scenes dangerous , Lionel was about to rush into the apartment , when Mrs. Lechmere so far recovered her faculties as to speak , and the young man lost every consideration in a burning curiosity , which was powerfully justified by his situation . 
the proud Baronet of Devonshire , the wealthy , and respected , and once happy companion of Princes -- thy nephew Lionel Lincoln ? 
-- thou knowest he is -- thou knowest he is -- and , woman , thy vile machinations have placed him there ! '' 
`` Who is it that dare thus speak to me ! '' 
demanded Mrs. Lechmere , rallying her faculties with a mighty effort , to look down this charge -- `` if my unhappy nephew is indeed known to thee , thy own knowledge will refute this base accusation '' -- `` Known to me ! 
The breathless interest he felt in all that had passed , could detain Lionel no longer from rushing to the assistance of his aunt . 
Abigail Pray , who , it would seem , had been in some measure accustomed to such scenes with her lodger , retained , however , sufficient self-command to anticipate his motions , and when he had gained the door he found her already supporting , and making the usual applications to Mrs. Lechmere . 
It became necessary to divest the sufferer of part of her attire , and Abigail assuring Lionel of her perfect competency to act by herself , requested him to withdraw , not only on that account , but because she felt assured that nothing could prove more dangerous to her reviving patient , than his unexpected presence . 
After lingering a moment , until he witnessed the signs of returning life , Lionel complied with the earnest entreaties of the woman ; and leaving the room , he groped his way to the foot of the ladder , with a determination to ascend to the apartment of Ralph , in order to demand at once an explanation of what he had just seen and heard . 
He found the old man seated in his little tower , his hand shading his eyes from the feeble light of the miserable candle , and his head drooping upon his bosom , like one in pensive musing . 
Lionel approached him , without appearing to attract his attention , and was compelled to speak , in order to announce his presence . 
`` 'T is well , '' returned Ralph . 
`` Perhaps I should add that I have been an astonished witness of your interview with Mrs. Lechmere , and have heard the bold and unaccountable language you have seen proper to use to that lady . '' 
The old man now raised his head , and Lionel saw the bright rays from his eyes quicken , as he answered -- `` You then heard the truth , and witnessed its effects on a guilty conscience . '' 
`` I also heard what you call the truth , in connexion , as you know , with the names most dear to me . '' 
`` Art certain of it , boy ? '' 
He paused , and a long , and on the part of Lionel , a painful and embarrassed silence succeeded , which was at length broken by Ralph , who said , abruptly -- `` you were in the field to-day , Major Lincoln ! '' 
Danger can not touch such as I. '' `` But , '' said Lionel , hesitating with embarrassment , `` ought I to conceal the presence of one whom I know to be inimical to my king ? '' 
-- `` Lionel Lincoln , you overrate your courage , '' interrupted Ralph , smiling in scorn -- `` you dare not shed the blood of him who has spared your own ; -- but enough of this -- we understand each other , and one old as I should be a stranger to fear ? '' 
`` No , no , '' said a low , solemn voice , from a dark corner of the apartment , where Job had stolen unseen , and was now nestled in security -- `` you ca n't frighten Ralph ! '' 
demanded Lionel . 
cried Lionel , observing that Job exhibited in his hand several pieces of silver , besides the note he had mentioned . 
said the lad , with a threatening air ; `` there 's law in the Bay yet , though the people do n't use it ; and right will be done to all , when the time comes . 
Lionel , with a view to appease the irritated lad , now made a few kind and conciliating remarks , but the changeling did not deign to reply , falling back in his corner in a sullen manner , as if he would repair the fatigue of the day by a few moments of sleep . 
In the mean time , Ralph had sunk into a profound reverie , when the young soldier remembered that the hour was late , and he had yet obtained no explanation of the mysterious charges . 
The instant Lionel mentioned the agitation of his aunt , his companion raised his head again , and a smile like that of fierce exultation lighted the wan face of the old man , who answered , pointing with an emphatic gesture to his own bosom -- `` 'T was here , boy , 't was here -- nothing short of the power of conscience , and a knowledge like that of mine , could strike that woman speechless in the presence of any thing human . '' 
Lionel again mentioned his aunt , and alluded to the necessity of his soon rejoining her , as he already heard footsteps below , which indicated that preparations were making for her departure . 
But his petitions and remonstrances were now totally unheeded , his aged companion was pacing swiftly up and down his small apartment , muttering incoherent sentences , in which the name of Priscilla was alone audible , and his countenance betraying the inward workings of absorbing and fierce passions . 
In a few moments more , the shrill voice of Abigail was heard calling upon her son , in a manner which plainly denoted her knowledge that the changeling was concealed somewhere about the building . 
Job heard her calls repeated , until the tones of her voice became angry and threatening , when he stole slowly from his corner , and moved towards the ladder , with a sunken brow and lingering steps . 
Lionel now knew not how to act . 
He had also his own secret reasons for wishing his visits to Ralph unknown ; accordingly , he determined to watch the movements below , under the favour of the darkness , and to be governed entirely by circumstances . 
He took no leave of his companion on departing , for long use had so far accustomed him to the eccentric manner of the old man , that he well knew any attempt to divert his attention from his burning thoughts , would be futile at a moment of such intense excitement . 
From the head of the ladder where Lionel took his stand , he saw Mrs. Lechmere , preceded by Job with a lantern , walking with a firmer step than he could have hoped for , towards the door , and he overheard Abigail cautioning her wilful son to light her visiter to a neighbouring corner , where it appeared a conveyance was in waiting . 
On the threshold , his aunt turned , and the light from the candle of Abigail falling on her features , Lionel caught a full view of her cold , hard eye , which had regained all its worldly expression , though softened a little by a deeper shade of thought than usual . 
Lionel could distinguish the slight shudder that passed through the frame of her companion , as she alluded to the doubtful character of Ralph ; but without answering , Abigail held the door open for the departure of her guest . 
The instant Mrs. Lechmere disappeared , Lionel glided down the ladder , and stood before the astonished woman . 
`` No -- no -- not of me , Major Lincoln , '' said the terrified female -- `` not of me , for the love of God , not of me -- I have sworn to keep it , and one oath -- '' her emotions choked her , and her voice became indistinct . 
Lionel regretted his vehemence , and ashamed to extort a confession from a woman , he attempted to pacify her feelings , promising to require no further communication at that time . 
`` Go -- go '' -- she said , motioning him to depart , `` and I shall be well again -- leave me , and then I shall be alone with that terrible old man , and my God ! '' 
Perceiving her earnestness , he reluctantly complied , and meeting Job on the threshold , he ceased to feel any further uneasiness for her safety . 
He remembered the communications by which Ralph had attained such a powerful interest in his feelings , and he fancied he could discover a pledge of the truth of the old man 's knowledge in the guilt betrayed by the manner of his aunt . 
From Mrs. Lechmere his thoughts recurred to her lovely grandchild , and for a moment he was perplexed , by endeavouring to explain her contradictory deportment towards himself ; -- at one time she was warm , frank , and even affectionate ; and at another , as in the short and private interview of that very evening , cold , constrained , and repulsive . 
Lionel immediately followed their example , and as the excitement of that memorable and busy day subsided , it was succeeded by a deep sleep , that fell on his senses like the forgetfulness of the dead . 
Thealarm of the inroad passed swiftly by the low shores of the Atlantic , and was heard echoing among the rugged mountains west of the rivers , as if borne along on a whirlwind . 
Lionel had by no means been an unconcerned spectator of these preparations . 
But while he was complimented on the spirit and loyalty he had manifested on the late occasion , it was intimated to the young man that he might be of more service to the cause of his Prince , by devoting his time to the cultivation of his interest among those powerful colonists with whom his family was allied by blood , or connected by long and close intimacies . 
Among others , Lionel heard the names of Ward and Thomas ; men of liberal attainments , and of some experience in arms . 
Lionel heard the name of Warren mentioned oftener than any other in the circles of Province-house , and with that sort of bitterness , which , even while it bespoke their animosity , betrayed the respect of his enemies . 
This gentleman , who , until the last moment had braved the presence of the royal troops , and fearlessly advocated his principles , while encircled with their bayonets , was now known to have suddenly disappeared from among them , abandoning home , property , and a lucrative profession ; and by sharing in the closing scenes of the day of Lexington , to have fairly cast his fortunes on the struggle . 
But the name which in secret possessed the greatest charm for the ear of the young British soldier , was that of Putnam , a yeoman of the neighbouring colony of Connecticut , who , as the uproar of the alarm whirled by him , literally deserted his plough , and mounting a beast from its team , made an early halt , after a forced march of a hundred miles , in the foremost ranks of his countrymen . 
He remembered the frequent and interesting communications which in his boyhood , he had held with his own father , before the dark shade had passed across the reason of Sir Lionel , and , in every tale of murderous combats with the savage tenants of the wilds , in each scene of danger and of daring that had distinguished the romantic warfare of the wilderness , and even in strange and fearful encounters with the beasts of the forest , the name of this man was blended with a species of chivalrous fame that is seldom obtained in an enlightened age , and never undeservedly . 
The great wealth of the family of Lincoln , and the high expectations of its heir , had obtained for the latter a military rank which at that period was rarely enjoyed by any but such as had bought the distinction by long and arduous services . 
Duringthis period of feverish excitement , while the appearance and privations of war existed with so little of its danger or its action , Lionel had not altogether forgotten his personal feelings , in the powerful interest created by the state of public affairs . 
Early on the morning succeeding the night of the scene between Mrs. Lechmere and the inmates of the warehouse , he had repaired again to the spot , to relieve the intense anxiety of his mind , by seeking a complete explanation of all those mysteries which had been the principal ligament that bound him to a man , little known , except for his singularities . 
The effects of the preceding day 's battle were already visible in the market-place , where , as Lionel passed , he saw few , or none of the countrymen who usually crowded the square at that hour . 
In fact , the windows of the shops were opened with caution , and men looked out upon the face of the sun , as if doubting of its appearance and warmth , as in seasons of ordinary quiet ; jealousy , and distrust , having completely usurped the place of security within the streets of the town . 
`` I have intruded at a somewhat unusual hour , Mrs. Pray , '' said Lionel , as he entered ; `` but business of the last moment requires that I should see your lodger -- I suppose he is above ; it will be well to announce my visit . '' 
Abigail shook her head with an air of solemn meaning , as she answered in a subdued voice , `` he is gone ! '' 
exclaimed Lionel -- `` whither , and when ? '' 
returned Lionel , musing , and without attending to the closing words of Abigail . 
`` If , '' said Lionel , `` there be any sin which lies heavy at your heart , every consideration , whether of justice or repentance , should induce you to confess your errors to those whose happiness may be affected by the knowledge , if any such there be ? '' 
Lionel waited some time for a reply , but finding that she remained obstinately silent , he continued -- `` From what has already passed , you must be eonscious that I have good reason to believe that my feelings are deeply concerned in your secret ; make , then , your confession of the guilt which seems to bear you down so heavily ; and in return for the confidence , I promise you my forgiveness and protection . '' 
As Lionel pressed thus directly the point so near his heart , the woman shrunk away from her situation near him , and her countenance lost , as he proceeded , its remarkable expression of compunction , in a forced look of deep surprise , that showed she was no novice in dissimulation , whatever might be the occasional warnings of her conscience . 
she repeated , in a slow and tremulous voice ; `` we are all guilty , and would be lost creatures , but for the blood of the Mediator . '' 
Major Lincoln is trying a poor lone woman , to make his jokes with the gentlemen of his mess this evening -- 't is certain , we all of us have our burthens of guilt to answer for -- surely Major Lincoln could n't have heard minister Hunt preach his sermon , the last Sabbath , on the sins of the town ! '' 
Lionel coloured highly at the artful imputation of the woman , that he was practising on her sex and unprotected situation ; and greatly provoked , in secret , at her duplicity , he became more guarded in his language , endeavouring to lead her on , by kindness and soothing , to the desired communications . 
But all his ingenuity was met by more than equal abilities on the part of Abigail , from whom he only obtained expressions of surprise that he could have mistaken her language for more than the usual acknowledgment of errors , that are admitted to be common to our lost nature . 
In this particular the woman was in no respect singular ; the greater number of those who are loudest in their confessions and denunciations on the abandoned nature of our hearts , commonly resenting , in the deepest manner , the imputation of individual offences . 
The more earnest and pressing his inquiries became , the more wary she grew , until disgusted with her pertinacity , and secretly suspecting her of foul play with her lodger , he left the house in anger , determining to keep a close eye on her movements , and , at a suitable moment , to strike such a blow as should bring her not only to confession , but to shame . 
Under the influence of this momentary resentment , and unable to avoid harboring the most unpleasant suspicions of his aunt , the young man determined , that very morning , to withdraw himself entirely , as a guest , from her dwelling . 
Mrs. Lechmere , who , if she knew at all that Lionel had been a witness of her intercourse with Ralph , must have received the intelligence from Abigail , received him , at breakfast , with a manner that betrayed no such consciousness . 
She listened to his excuses for removing , with evident concern ; and more than once , as Lionel spoke of the probable nature of his future life , now that hostilities had commenced -- the additional trouble his presence would occasion to her habits and years -- of his great concern in her behalf -- and , in short , of all that he could devise in the way of apology for the step , he saw her eyes turned anxiously on Cecil , with an expression which , at another time , might have led him to distrust the motives of her hospitality . 
The young lady herself , however , evidently heard the proposal with great satisfaction , and when her grandmother appealed to her opinion , whether he had urged a single good reason for the measure , she answered with a vivacity that had been a stranger to her manner of late -- `` Certainly , my dear grandmama -- the best of all reasons -- his inclinations . 
You have urged so many reasons , cousin Lionel . 
`` Then I will remain , '' said Lionel ; `` for any thing is better than to be suspected of insensibility . '' 
Lionel had now no longer any excuse for not abiding by his avowed determination ; and notwithstanding Mrs. Lechmere parted from her interesting nephew with an exhibition of reluctance that was in singular contrast with her usually cold and formal manner , the desired removal was made in the course of that very morning . 
When this change was accomplished , week after week slipped by , in the manner related in the preceding chapter , during which the reinforcements continued to arrive , and general after general appeared in the place to support the unenterprizing Gage in the conduct of the war . 
And the elegant and accomplished Burgoyne , who had already purehased a name in the fields of Portugal and the benefit of the late exchange , and curious to know what all the suppressed roguery he could detect in the demure countenances of his friends might signify , Lionel dropped his pen , and listened to the succeeding dialogue . 
`` Now answer to your offences , thou silly fellow , with a wise name , '' M`Fuse commenced , in a voice that did not fail , by its harsh cadences , to create some of that awe , which , by the expression of hte speaker 's eye , it would seem he laboured to produce -- `` speak out with the freedom of a man , and the compunctions of a Christian , if you have them . 
Lionel suffered Seth to pass from the room , without speaking , but as the man left his own abode with a lingering and doubtful step , the young soldier followed him into the street , without communicating to any one that he had witnessed what had passed , with the laudable intention of adding his own personal pledge for the security of the household goods in question . 
The velocity of Seth continued unabated , until he had conducted Lionel far into the lower parts of the town , where the latter perceived him to encounter a man with whom he turned suddenly under an arch which led into a dark and narrow court . 
Lionel instantly increased his speed , and as he entered beneath the passage , he caught a glimpse of the lank figure of the object of his pursuit , gliding through the opposite entrance to the court , and , at the same moment , he encountered the man who had apparently induced the deviation in his route . 
As Lionel stepped a little on one side , the light of a lamp fell full on the form of the other , and he recognised the person of the active leader of the caucus , -LRB- as the political meeting he had attended was called , -RRB- though so disguised and muffled , that , but for the accidental opening of the folds of his cloak , the unknown might have passed his nearest friend without discovery . 
`` We meet again ! '' 
exclaimed Lionel , in the quickness of surprise ; `` though it would seem that the sun is never to shine on our interviews . '' 
The stranger started , and betrayed an evident wish to continue his walk , as though the other had mistaken his person ; then , as if suddenly recollecting himself , he turned and approached Lionel , with easy dignity , and answered -- `` The third time is said to contain the charm ! 
`` The dangers have probably been exaggerated by those who wish ill to the cause of our master , '' returned Lionel , coldly . 
There was a calm , but proud smile on the face of the stranger , as he replied -- `` I shall not dispute the information of one who bore so conspicuous a part in the deeds of that day -- still you will remember , though the march to Lexington was , like our own accidental rencontres , in the dark , that a bright sun shone upon the retreat , and nothing has been hid . '' 
`` Nothing need be concealed , '' replied Lionel , nettled by the proud composure of the other -- `` unless , indeed , the man I address is afraid to walk the streets of Boston in open day . '' 
`` The man you address , Major Lincoln , '' said the stranger , advancing in his warmth a step nearer to Lionel , `` has dared to walk the streets of Boston both by day and by night , when the bullies of him you call your master , have strutted their hour in the security of peace ; and now a nation is up to humble their pretensions , shall he shrink from treading his native soil when he will ! '' 
`` That is a question which lies between Major Lincoln and his conscience , '' returned the stranger -- `` though , '' he added , after a momentary pause , and in a milder tone , as if he recollected the danger of his situation -- `` the gentlemen of his name and lineage were not apt to be informers , when they dwelt in the land of their birth . '' 
But let this be the last of our interviews , until we can meet as friends , or as enemies should , where we may discuss these topics at the points of our weapons . '' 
Without uttering more , he drew the folds of his dress more closely around his form , and walked so swiftly away that Lionel , had he possessed the inclination , could not have found an opportunity to arrest his progress . 
The two or three succeeding days were distinguished by an appearance of more than usual preparation among the troops , and it became known that officers of rank had closely reconnoitred the grounds of the opposite peninsula . 
Lionel patiently awaited the progress of events ; but as the probability of active service increased , his wishes to make another effort to probe the secret of the tenant of the warehouse revived , and he took his way towards the dock-square , with that object , on the night of the fourth day from the preceding interview with the stranger . 
It was long after the tattoo had laid the town in that deep quiet which follows the bustle of a garrison ; and as he passed along he saw none but the sentinels pacing their short limits , or an occasional officer , returning at that late hour from his revels or his duty . 
Restless , and excited , Lionel pursued his walk through the narrow and gloomy streets of the North-end , until he unexpectedly found himself issuing upon the open space that is tenanted by the dead , on Copp 's - hill . 
On this eminence the English general had caused a battery of heavy cannon to be raised , and Lionel , unwilling to encounter the challenge of the sentinels , inclining a little to one side , proceeded to the brow of the hill , and seating himself on a stone , began to muse deeply on his own fortunes , and the situation of the country . 
Curious to know who could be moving about the harbour at this hour , in such a secret manner , Lionel was in the act of rising to descend , when he saw the dim figure of a man land from the boat , and climb the hill , directly in a line with his own position . 
Suppressing even the sounds of his breath , and drawing his body back within the deep shadow cast from a point of the hill , a little above him , Lionel waited until the figure had approached within ten feet of him , when it stopped , and appeared , like himself , to be endeavouring to suppress all other sounds and feelings in the absorbing act of deep attention . 
The young soldier loosened his sword in its sheath , before he said -- `` We have chosen a private spot , and a secret hour , sir , for our meditations ! '' 
Job , '' said Lionel -- `` and is it you I meet prowling about like a thief at night ! 
said Lionel , with a smile ; `` but I repeat , on what errand have you returned to the town at this unseasonable and suspicious hour ? '' 
`` 'T is sinful to ask them many questions , and such as you do put should be made in the Holy name , '' returned the lad , in a tone so solemn , that , connected with the place and the scene , it caused the blood of Lionel to thrill -- `` but Job loves to be near them , to use him to the damps , ag ` in the time he shall be called to walk himself in a sheet at midnight . '' 
said Lionel -- `` what noise is that ? '' 
`` 'T is neither , '' said Lionel ; `` I heard the low hum of a hundred voices , or my ears have played me falsely . '' 
`` May be the spirits speak to each other , '' said the lad -- `` they say their voices are like the rushing winds . '' 
Lionel passed his hand across his brow , and endeavoured to recover the tone of his mind , which had been strangely disordered by the solemn manner of his companion , and walked slowly from the spot , closely attended by the silent changeling . 
He did not stop until he had reached the inner angle of the wall that enclosed the field of the dead , when he paused , and leaning on the fence , again listened intently . 
`` Boy , I know not how your silly conversation may have warped my brain , '' he said , `` but there are surely strange and unearthly sounds lingering about this place , to-night ! 
there is another rush of voices , as if the air above the water were filled with living beings ; and then again , I think I hear a noise as if heavy weights were falling to the earth ! '' 
Lionel hesitated no longer , but he rather run than walked from the spot , with a secret horror that , at another moment , he would have blushed to acknowledge , nor did he perceive that he was still attended by Job , until he had descended some distance down Lynn-street . 
Here he was addressed by his companion , in his usually quiet and unmeaning tones -- `` There 's the house that the governor built who went down into the sea for money ! '' 
he said -- `` he was a poor boy once , like Job , and now they say his grandson is a great lord , and the king knighted the grand ` ther too . 
It 's pretty much the same thing whether a man gets his money out of the sea or out of the earth ; the king will make him a lord for it . '' 
`` You hold the favours of royalty cheap , fellow , '' returned Lionel , glancing his eye carelessly at the ` Phipp 's house , '' as he passed -- `` you forget that I am to be some day one of your despised knights ! '' 
`` I know it , '' said Job ; `` and you come from America too -- it seems to me that all the poor boys go from America to the king to be great lords , and all the sons of the great lords come to America to be made poor boys -- Nab says Job is the son of a great lord too ! '' 
`` Then Nab is as great a fool as her child , '' said Lionel ; `` but boy , I would see your mother in the morning , and I expect you to let me know at what hour I may visit her . '' 
Job did not answer , and Lionel , on turning his head , perceived that he was suddenly deserted by the changeling , who was already gliding back towards his favourite haunt among the graves . 
Vexed at the wild humours of the lad , Lionel hastened to his quarters , and threw himself in his bed , though he heard the loud cries of `` all 's well , '' again and again , before the strange phantasies which continued to cross his mind would permit him to obtain the rest he sought . 
-- It may be a fit matter of inquiry for the anti-quarian , to learn whether the captain ever put his project in execution ; and if so , whether he has not the merit of founding that famous association , which , to this hour , maintains the Catholic custom of the East , by feasting on the last day of the week on the staple of New-England ; and which is said to assemble regularly , with much good-fellowship , around more good wine than is ever encountered at any other board in the known world . 
Lionel arose from his bed , and had paced his chamber several times , in a vain effort to shake off the images that had haunted his slumbers , when the sounds which broke upon the stillness of the air , became too plain to be longer mistaken by a practised ear . 
he muttered to himself , `` I have been dreaming but by halves -- these are the sounds of no fancied tempest , but cannon , speaking most plainly to the soldier ! '' 
The roar of artillery was now quick and heavy , and Lionel bent his eyes about him to discover the cause of this unusual occurrence . 
It had been the policy of Gage to await the arrival of his reinforcements , before he struck a blow which was intended to be decisive ; and the Americans were well known to be too scantily supplied with the munitions of war , to waste a single charge of powder in any of the vain attacks of modern sieges . 
Women began to rush wildly from their dwellings , and then , as the sounds broke on their ears with ten-fold heaviness in the open air , they shrunk back into their habitations in pallid dismay . 
Lionel called to three or four of the men as they hurried by , but turning their eyes wildly towards his window , they passed on without answering , as if the emergency were too pressing to admit of speech . 
As he left his own door , a half-clad artillerist hurried past him , adjusting his garments with one hand , and bearing in the other some of the lesser implements of the particular corps in which he served . 
`` What means the firing , sergeant , '' demanded Lionel , `` and whither do you hasten with those fuses ? '' 
`` The rebels , your honour , the rebels ! '' 
returned the soldier , looking back to speak , without ceasing his speed ; `` and I go to my guns ! '' 
`` The rebels ! '' 
repeated Lionel -- `` what can we have to fear , from a mob of countrymen , in such a position -- that fellow has slept from his post , and apprehensions for himself mingle with this zeal for his king ! '' 
The towns-people now began to pour from their dwellings in scores ; and Lionel imitated their example , and took his course towards the adjacent height of Beacon-hill . 
He toiled his way up the steep ascent , in company with twenty more , without exchanging a syllable with men who appeared as much astonished as himself at this early interruption of their slumbers , and in a few minutes he stood on the little grassy platform , surrounded by a hundred interested gazers . 
The sun had just lifted the thin veil of mist from the bosom of the waters , and the eye was permitted to range over a wide field beneath the light vapour . 
Several vessels were moored in the channels of the Charles and Mystick , to cover the northern approaches to the place ; and as he beheld the column of white smoke that was wreathing about the masts of a frigate among them , Lionel was no longer at a loss to comprehend whence the firing proceeded . 
While he was yet gazing , uncertain of the reasons which demanded this show of war , immense fields of smoke burst from the side of a ship of the line , who also opened her deep-mouthed cannon , and presently her example was followed by several floating batteries , and lighter vessels , until the wide amphitheatre of hills that encircled Boston were filled with the echoes of a hundred pieces of artillery . 
exclaimed a young officer of his own regiment , addressing Major Lincoln -- `` the sailors are in downright earnest , and they scale their guns with shot , I know , by the rattling of the reports ! '' 
`` I can boast of a vision no better than your own , '' returned Lionel ; `` for no enemy can I see . 
exclaimed Lionel ; `` what see you ? 
Lionel , a little irritated with the bold language of Job , called to him in an angry voice -- `` Come down from that perch , fellow , and explain yourself , or this grenadier shall lift you from your seat , and transfer you to the post for a little of that wholesome correction which you need . '' 
`` You promised that the grannies should never flog Job ag ` in , '' said the changeling , crouching down in the grate , whence he looked out at his threatened chastiser with a lowering and sullen eye -- `` and Job agreed to run your a ` r ` nds , and not take any of the king 's crowns in pay . '' 
Comforted by this assurance , which was made in a more friendly tone , Job threw himself carelessly from his iron seat , and clinging to the post , he slid swiftly to the earth , where Major Lincoln immediately arrested him by the arm , and demanded -- `` Where are those Bay-men , I once more ask ? '' 
`` They dug their cellar on Breeds , and now they are fixing the underpinnin ' , and next you 'll see what a raising they 'll invite the people to ! '' 
Motioning to Job to follow , he left the hill with a hurried step , and when they gained the common , he turned , and said , sternly , to his companion -- `` Fellow , you have been privy to this midnight work ! '' 
`` Job has enough to do in the day , without labouring in the night , when none but the dead are out of their places of rest , '' returned the lad , with a look of mental imbecility , which immediately disarmed the resentment of the other . 
Lionel smiled as he again remembered his own weakness , and repeated to himself -- `` The dead ! 
But tell me , Job , for 't is in vain to attempt deceiving me any longer , what number of Americans did you leave on the hill when you crossed the Charles to visit the graves on Copp 's , the past night ? '' 
`` 'T is probable , '' said Lionel , who believed it wisest to humour the wild conceits of the lad , in order to disarm his cunning ; `` but though the dead are invisible , the living may be counted . '' 
`` And after you ceased to count , did many others pass ? '' 
Lionel had now obtained all he expected to learn from the simpleton concerning the force and condition of the Americans ; and as the moments were too precious to be wasted in vain discourse , he bid the lad repair to his quarters that night , and left him . 
On entering his own lodgings , Major Lincoln shut himself up in his private apartment , and passed several hours in writing , and examining important papers . 
One letter , in particular , was written , read , torn , and rewritten five or six times , until at length he placed his seal , and directed the important paper with a sort of carelessness that denoted his patience was exhausted by repeated trials . 
While shut up in his closet , Lionel had several times thrown aside his pen to listen , as the hum of the place penetrated to his retirement , and announced the excitement and bustle which pervaded the streets of the town . 
Having at length completed the task he had assigned himself , he caught up his hat , and took his way , with hasty steps , into the centre of the place . 
Cannon were rattling over the rough pavements , followed by ammunition wagons , and officers and men of the artillery were seen in swift pursuit of their pieces . 
Aide-de-camps were riding furiously through the streets , charged with important messages ; and here and there an officer might be seen issuing from his quarters , with a countenance in which manly pride struggled powerfully with inward dejection , as he caught the last glance of anguish which followed his retiring form , from eyes that had been used to meet his own with looks of confidence and love . 
While Lionel stood a moment at the corner of a street , admiring the firm movement of a body of grenadiers , his eye fell on the powerful frame and rigid features of M Fuse , marching at the head of his company with that gravity which regarded the accuracy of the step amongst the important incidents of life . 
At a short distance from him was Job Pray , timing his paces to the tread of the soldiers , and regarding the gallant show with stupid admiration , while his ear unconsciously drank the inspiriting music of their band . 
As this fine body of men passed on , it was immediately succeeded by a battalion in which Lionel instantly recognised the facings of his own regiment . 
The notes of the horns rose above his voice , and Lionel could do no more than return his cordial salute ; when , recalled to his purpose by the sight of his comrades , he turned , and pursued his way to the quarters of the commander-in-chief . 
The gate of Province-house was thronged with military men ; some waiting for admittance , and others entering and departing with the air of those who were charged with the execution of matters of the deepest moment . 
The name of Major Lincoln was hardly announced before an aid appeared to conduct him into the presence of the governor , with a politeness and haste that several gentlemen , who had been in waiting for hours , deemed in a trisling degree unjust . 
Lionel , however , having little to do with murmurs which he did not hear , followed his conductor , and was immediately ushered into the apartment , where a council of war had just closed its deliberations . 
On the threshold of its door he was compelled to give way to an officer who was departing in haste , and whose powerful frame seemed bent a little in the intensity of thought , as his dark , military countenance lighted for an instant with the salutation he returned to the low bow of the young soldier . 
Around this chief a group of younger men immediately clustered , and as they departed in company , Lionel was enabled to gather from their conversation that they took their way for the field of battle . 
The room was filled with officers of high rank , though here and there was to be seen a man in civil attire , whose disappointed and bitter looks announced him to be one of those mandamus counsellors , whose evil advice had hastened the mischief their wisdom could never repair . 
From out a small circle of these mortified civilians , the unpretending person of Gage advanced to meet Lionel , forming a marked contrast by the simplicity of its dress , to the military splendour that was glittering around him . 
`` ` Wolfe 's own ' has just passed me on its way to the boats , and I have ventured to intrude on your excellency to inquire if it were not time its Major had resumed his duty ? '' 
A shade of thought was seated for a moment on the placid features of the general , and he then answered with a friendly smile -- `` ` Twill be no more than an affair of out-posts , and must be quickly ended . 
But should I grant the request of every brave young man whose spirit is up to-day , it might cost his majesty 's service the life of some officer that would make the purchase of the pile of earth too dear . '' 
`` But may I not be permitted to say , that the family of Lincoln is of the Province , and its example should not be lost on such an occasion ? '' 
Lionel bowed in submission , and after communicating the little he had gatltered from Job Pray , he turned away , and found himself near another officer of high rank , who smiled as he observed his disappointed countenance , and taking him by the arm , led him from the room , with a freedom suited to his fine figure and easy air . 
`` Then , like myself , Lincoln , you are not to battle for the king to-day , '' he said , on gaining the anti-chamber . 
`` Howe has the luck of the occasion , if there can be luck in so vulgar an affair . 
But allons ; accompany me to Copp 's , as a spectator , since they deny us parts in the drama ; and perhaps we may pick up materials for a pasquinade , though not for an epic . '' 
`` Pardon me , General Burgoyne , '' said Lionel , `` if I view the matter with more serious eyes than yourself . '' 
For myself , Lincoln , I weary of these crooked streets and gloomy houses , and having some taste for the poetry of nature , would have long since looked out upon the deserted fields of these husbandmen , had the authority , as well as the inclination , rested with me . 
A soldier of middle age now joined them , whose stout frame , while it wanted the grace and ease of the gentleman who still held Lionel by the arm , bore a martial character to which the look of the quiet and domestic Gage was a stranger ; and followed by their several attendants , the whole party immediately left the government-house to take their destined position on the eminence so often mentioned . 
Lionel gladly availed himself of this alteration to withdraw a little from the group , whose steps he followed at such a distance as permitted him to observe those exhibitions of feeling on the part of the inhabitants , which the pride of the others induced them to overlook . 
Pallid and anxious female faces were gleaming out upon them from every window , while the roofs of the houses , and the steeples of the churches , were beginning to throng with more daring , and equally interested spectators . 
The meadows , on the right , were still peaceful and smiling as in the most quiet days of the province , though the excited fancy of Lionel imagined that a sullen stillness lingered about the neglected kilns in their front , and over the whole landscape , that was in gloomy consonance with the approaching scene . 
`` It is a glorious spectacle , '' murmured the graceful chieftain by the side of Lionel , keenly alive to all the poetry of his alluring profession ; `` how exceeding soldier-like ! 
The advance of the British line , so beautiful and slow , resembled rather the ordered steadiness of a drill than an approach to a deadly struggle . 
Their standards fluttered proudly above them , and there were moments when the wild music of their bands was heard rising on the air , and tempering the ruder sounds of the artillery . 
`` They will not fight , Lincoln , '' said the animated leader at the side of Lionel -- `` the military front of Howe has chilled the hearts of the knaves , and our victory will be bloodless ! '' 
once more cried the gay companion of Lionel , `` and Howe is within two hundred feet of them , unharmed ! '' 
It was not altogether fancy which led Lionel to imagine that he saw the smoky canopy of the hill to wave as if the trained warriors it enveloped faltered before this close and appalling discharge ; but in another instant , the stimulating war-cry , and the loud shouts of the combatants were borne across the strait to his ears , even amid the horrid din of the combat . 
Ten breathless minutes flew by like a moment of time , and the bewildered spectators on Copp 's were still gazing intently on the scene , when a voice was raised among them , shouting -- `` Hurrah ! 
let the rake-hellies go up to Breed 's ; the people will teach 'em the law ! '' 
exclaimed Lionel -- `` 't is a simpleton , an idiot , a fool ! '' 
Lionel had not time to utter a word of remonstrance , before Job appeared in the air , borne on the uplifted arms of a dozen men , and at the next instant he was seen rolling down the steep declivity , with a velocity that carried him to the water 's edge . 
Then turning , he launched his canoe from its hiding place among the adjacent lumber , amid a shower of stones , and glided across the strait ; his little bark escaping unnoticed in the crowd of boats that were rowing in all directions . 
But his progress was watched by the uneasy eye of Lionel , who saw him land and disappear , with hasty steps , in the silent streets of the town . 
While this trifling by-play was enacted , the great drama of the day was not at a stand . 
The smoky veil which clung around the brow of the eminence , was lifted by the air , and sailed heavily away to the south-west , leaving the scene of the bloody struggle again open to the view . 
Lionel witnessed the grave and meaning glances which the two lieutenants of the king exchanged as they simultaneously turned their glasses from the fatal spot , and taking the one proffered by Burgoyne , he read their explanation in the numbers of the dead that lay profusely scattered in front of the redoubt . 
Lionel waited but a moment for an explanation -- the flaming balls were soon seen taking their wide circuit in the air , and carrying their desolation among the close and inflammable roofs of the opposite town . 
In scenes like these we are attempting to describe , hours appear to be minutes , and time flies as imperceptibly as life slides from beneath the feet of age . 
The disordered ranks of the British had been arrested at the base of the hill , and were again forming under the eyes of their leaders , with admirable discipline , and extraordinary care . 
Lionel soon detected the name of Prescott of Pepperell , passing through the crowd in low murmurs , and his glass did not deceive him when he thought , in the smaller of the two , he had himself descried the graceful person of the unknown leader of the ` caucus . ' 
The heads of the columns were already in view of their enemies , when a man was seen swiftly ascending the hill from the burning town : he paused amid the peril , on the natural glacis , and swung his hat triumphantly , and Lionel even fancied he heard the exulting cry , as he recognised the ungainly form of the simpleton , before it plunged into the work . 
Their arms were already glittering in a line with the green faces of the mound , and Lionel heard the experienced warrior at his side , murmuring to himself -- `` Let him hold his fire , and he will go in at the point of the bayonet ! '' 
Volley succeeded volley , and in a few moments they had again curtained their ranks behind the misty skreen produced by their own fire . 
Until this moment the feelings of Lionel had vacillated between the pride of country and his military spirit , but Iosing all other feelings in the latter sensation , he now looked fiercely about him , as if he would seek the man who dare exult in the repulse of his comrades . 
The poetic chieftain was still at his side , biting his nether lip in vexation ; but his more tried companion had suddenly disappeared . 
Another quick glance fell upon his missing form in the act of entering a boat at the foot of the hill . 
Quicker than thought , Lionel was on the shore , crying as he flew to the water 's edge -- `` Hold ! 
`` Receive him , '' said Clinton , with that grim satisfaction with which men acknowledge a valued friend in moments of great trial ; `` and then row for your lives , or what is of more value , for the honour of the British name . '' 
The brain of Lionel whirled as the boat shot along its watery bed , but before it had gained the middle of the stream he had time to consider the whole of the appalling scene . 
The air seemed filled with whistling balls , as they hurtled above his head , and the black sides of the vessels of war were vomiting their sheets of flame with unwearied industry . 
But long and loud appeals to their spirit and their ancient fame were necessary to restore a moiety of their former confidence to men who had been thus rudely repulsed , and who now looked along their thinned and exhausted ranks , missing in many instances more than half the well-known countenances of their fellows . 
Lionel had taken post in his regiment , but marching on the skirt of the column , he commanded a view of most of the scene of battle . 
Behind these came a party of the marine guards , from the shipping , led by their own veteran Major ; and next followed the dejected Nesbitt and his corps , amongst whom Lionel looked in vain for the features of the good-natured Polwarth . 
It lay , as before , still as if none breathed within its bosom , though a terrific row of dark tubes were arrayed along its top , following the movements of the approaching columns , as the eyes of the imaginary charmers of our own wilderness are said to watch their victims . 
Men think at such moments with the rapidity of lightning , and Lionel had even fancied his comrades in possession of the work , when the terrible stream of fire flashed in the faces of the men in front . 
`` We can not , '' murmured the soldiers of the -- th ; `` their fire is too heavy ! '' 
In the shallow ditch Lionel passed the dying marine , and caught the dying and despairing look from his eyes , and in another instant he found himself in the presence of his foes . 
When the whole issued upon the open ground , the husbandmen received a close and fatal fire from the battalions which were now gathering around them on three sides . 
Lionel continued in advance , pressing on the footsteps of the retiring foe , stepping over many a lifeless body in his difficult progress . 
Amid the ferocious cries , and fiercer passions of the moment , the young man paused , and glanced his eyes around him with an expression that said , he thought the work of death should cease . 
At this instant the trappings of his attire caught the glaring eye-balls of a dying yeoman , who exerted his wasting strength to sacrifice one more worthy victim to the manes of his countrymen . 
The whole of the tumultuous scene vanished from the senses of Lionel at the flash of the musket of this man , and he sunk beneath the feet of the combatants , insensible of further triumph , and of every danger . 
When the Americans had disengaged themselves from the troops , they descended into the little hollow between the two hills , swiftly , and like a disordered crowd , bearing off most of their wounded , and leaving but few prisoners in the hands of their foes . 
Throughout the whole of that long period , the hidden bullet had defied the utmost skill of the British surgeons ; nor could all their science and experience embolden them to risk cutting certain arteries and tendons in the body of the heir of Lincoln , which were thought to obstruct the passage to that obstinate lead , which , all agreed , alone impeded the recovery of the unfortunate sufferer . 
This indecision was one of the penalties that poor Lionel paid for his greatness ; for had it been Meriton who lingered , instead of his master , it is quite probable the case would have been determined at a much earlier hour . 
At length a young and enterprising leech , with the world before him , arrived from Europe , who , possessing greater skill or more effrontery -LRB- the effects are sometimes the same -RRB- than his fellows , did not hesitate to decide at once on the expediency of an operation . 
For seven weary months Lionel lay in a state in which he might be said to exist , instead of live , but little conscious of surrounding occurrences ; and happily for himself , nearly insensible to pain and anxiety . 
At moments the flame of life would apparently glimmer like the dying lamp , and then both the fears and hopes of his attendants were disappointed , as the patient dropped again into that state of apathy in which so much of his time was wasted . 
From an erroneous opinion of his master 's sufferings , Meriton had been induced to make a free use of soporifics , and no small part of Lionel 's insensibility was produced by an excessive use of that laudanum for which he was indebted to the mistaken humanity of his valet . 
At the moment of the operation the adventurous surgeon had availed himself of the same stupifying drug , and many days of dull , heavy , and alarming apathy succeeded , before his system , finding itself relieved from its unnatural inmate , resumed its healthful functions , and began to renew its powers . 
By a singular goodfortune his leech was too much occupied by his own novel honours , to follow up his success , secundem artem , as a great general pushes a victory to the utmost ; and that matchless doctor , Nature , was permitted to complete the cure . 
This restoration to all the nobler properties of life occurred about the tenth hour of the day ; and as Lionel opened his eyes , with understanding in their expression , they fell upon the cheerfulness which a bright sun , assisted by the dazzling light of the masses of snow without , had lent to every object in his apartment . 
The curtains of the windows had been opened , and every article of the furniture was arranged with a neatness that manifested the studied care which presided over his illness . 
In one corner , it is true , Meriton had established himself in an easy-chair , with an arrangement of attitude which spoke more in favour of his consideration for the valet than the master , while he was comforting his faculties for a night of watchfulness , by the sweet , because stolen , slumbers of the morning . 
A flood of recollections broke into the mind of Lionel together , and it was some little time before he could so far separate the true from the imaginary , as to attain a tolerably clear comprehension of what had occurred in the little age he had been dozing . 
The valet stood with open mouth , as if ready to devour his master 's words with more senses than one , and then , as Lionel concluded , passed his hands in quick succession over his eyes , as before , though with a very different object , ere he answered -- `` Thank God , sir , thank God ! 
Yes , yes , sir -- you 'll do now -- you 'll do this time . 
That 's a miracle of a man , is the great Lon ` non surgeon ! 
and now we shall go back to Soho , and live like civilizers . 
Lionel was too much affected by this evidence of feeling , to continue the dialogue , for several minutes ; during which time he employed himself in putting on part of his attire , assisted by the gulping valet , when , drawing his robe-de-chambre around his person , he leaned on the shoulder of his man , and took the seat which the other had so recently quitted . 
`` Well , well , Meriton , that will do , '' said Lionel , giving a deep hem , as though his breathing was obstructed ; `` that will do , silly fellow ; I trust I shall live to give you many a frown , and some few guineas , yet . 
you were first shot , and then baggoneted , and after that a troop of horse rode over you . 
`` I dare say , I dare say , '' said Lionel , smiling , though he mechanically passed his hand over his body , as his valet spoke of the bayonet -- `` but the poor fellow must have transferred some of his own wounds to my person -- I own the bullet , but object to the cavalry and the steel . '' 
`` No , sir , Iown the bullet , and it shall be buried with me in my dressing-box , at the head of my grave , '' said Meriton , exhibiting the flattened bit of lead , exultingly , in the palm of his hand -- `` it has been in my pocket these thirteen days , after tormenting your honour for six long months , hid in the what d'ye call 'em muscles , away behind the thingumy artery . 
Put up the unseemly thing , and never let me see it again ! '' 
`` I am in the house of Mrs. Lechmere , again , '' continued Lionel , examining the room -- `` I know this apartment , and those private doors too well to be mistaken . '' 
`` Then it is Mrs. Lechmere who visits me daily , '' said Lionel , thoughtfully ; `` I have recollections of a female form hovering around my bed , though I had supposed it more youthful and active than that of my aunt . '' 
`` Miss Danforth , '' repeated Lionel , dropping his expecting eyes in disappointment , from the face of Meriton to the floor -- `` I hope she has not sustained all this trouble on my account alone . 
There are women enough in the establishment -- one would think such offices might be borne by the domestics -- in short , Meriton , was she without an assistant in all these little kindnesses ? '' 
`` One would think , by your account , that I have done little else than guzzle port wine , for six months , '' said Lionel , pettishly . 
demanded Lionel . 
said Lionel , pursuing the conversation with an interest that would have struck a more observant man as remarkable -- `` what reason have you for suspecting Miss Dynevor of manufacturing rhymes ? '' 
cried Lionel , with a quickness that caused Meriton to drop a phial he was dusting , at the expense of its contents . 
`` Bless me , master Lionel , how strong , and like old times you speak ! '' 
`` Very well , '' said Lionel ; `` some day when I am stronger , I may like to be indulged with a perusal -- go now , Meriton , to the larder , and look about you ; I feel the symptoms of returning health grow strong upon me . '' 
His ear had not deceived him , for Cecil Dynevor herself , stood within a few feet of the chair , which concealed , in a great measure , his person from her view . 
Lionel followed her graceful movements with his eyes , and as the airy band of her morning cap waved aside at her own breathing , he discovered the unnatural paleness that was seated on her speaking features . 
But when she drew the folds of the bed curtains , and missed the invalid , thought is not quicker than the motion with which she turned her light person towards the chair . 
Here she encountered the eyes of the young man , beaming on her with delight , and expressing all that animation and intelligence to which they had so long been strangers . 
Yielding to the surprise and the gush of her feelings , Cecil flew to his feet , and clasping one of his extended hands in both her own , she cried -- `` Lionel , dear Lionel , you are better ! 
Lionel gently extricated his hand from the warm and unguarded pressure of her soft fingers , and drew forth a paper which she had unconsciously committed to his keeping . 
`` This , dearest Cecil , '' he whispered to the blushing maiden , `` this is my own letter , written when I knew my life to be at imminent hazard , and speaking the purest thoughts of my heart -- tell me , then , it has not been thus kept for nothing ? '' 
Cecil dropped her face between her hands for a moment , in burning shame , and then , as all the emotions of the moment crowded around her heart , she yielded to them as a woman , and burst into a paroxysm of tears . 
The letter of Lionel was too direct , not to save her pride , and it had been too often perused for a single sentence to be soon forgotten . 
She said all that an affectionate , generous , and modest female would say on such an occasion ; and it is certain , that well as Lionel looked on waking , the little she uttered had the effect to improve his appearance ten-fold . 
said Lionel , leaning fondly over her , as she still , unconsciously , kneeled by his side . 
`` Yes -- yes -- it was your order that it should be sent to me only in case of your death ; but for more than a month you were numbered as among the dead by us all . 
`` Tis past , my sweet friend , and , God be praised , I may now look forward to health and happiness . '' 
`` God be praised , indeed , '' murmured Cecil , the tears again rushing to her eyes -- `` I would not live that month over again , Lionel , for all that this world can offer ! '' 
She looked up in his face with all the soul of a woman 's confidence beaming in her eyes , as she answered -- `` You will , Lincoln , I know you will -- you have sworn it , and I should be a wretch to doubt you . '' 
She sprung on her feet , and hardly allowing time to the delighted Lionel to note the burning tints that suffused her whole face , she darted from the room with the rapidity and lightness of an antelope . 
During the performance of this evolution , Lionel had leisure to observe the altered person of the captain . 
This last sad alteration , in particular , attracted the look of Major Lincoln , who continued to gaze at it with glistening eyes , for some time after the other had established himself , to his entire satisfaction , in one of the cushioned seats of the apartment . 
`` 'T is not as gracefully cut , perhaps , as if it had been turned from the hands of master Phidias , but in a place like Boston , it is an invaluable member , inasmuch as it knows neither hunger nor cold ! '' 
`` The Americans , then , press the town , '' said Lionel , glad to turn the subject , `` and maintain the siege with vigour ? '' 
Lionel paused , in melancholy , as his friend attempted to jest at his misfortune , and then , by a very natural transition for a young man in his situation , he proudly exclaimed -- `` But we gained the day , Polwarth ! 
ejaculated the captain , laying his wooden leg carefully over its more valuable fellow , and regarding it ruefully , while he spoke -- `` had we made a suitable use of the bounties of nature , and turned their position , instead of running into the jaws of the beast , many might have left the field better supplied with appurtenances than are some among us at present . 
they must have suffered heavily ; I saw Pitcairn fall before me ; '' said Lionel , speaking with hesitation -- `` I greatly fear our old comrade , the grenadier , did not escape with better fortune . '' 
`` Then that notable scheme did not entirely fall to the ground , '' said Lionel , with a feverish desire to change the subject once more . 
Lionel continued silent for many moments , during which time his recollections began to revive , and his thoughts glanced over the scenes that occurred in the first months of his residence in Boston . 
It is quite possible that a painful , though still general and indefinite feeling mingled with his musings , for he evidently strove to expel some such unwelcome intruder , as he resumed the discourse with a strong appearance of forced gayety . 
`` Ay , ay , I well remember poor Job -- a fellow once seen and known , not easily to be forgotten . 
He used , of old , to attach himself greatly to my person , but I suppose , like the rest of the world , I am neglected when in retirement . '' 
`` That should be very singular , too , '' said Lionel , with a still more thoughtful brow . 
one who could eat and ' joke -- drink and quarrel with a man in a breath , like poor Dennis , who is gone from among us for ever ! 
`` Yes , '' added Lionel , impatiently , `` remove the cloth ; and go , inquire if there be letters for me . '' 
As Polwarth was exceedingly communicative , Lionel soon obtained a very general , and to do the captain suitable justice , an extremely impartial account of the situation of the hostile forces , as well as of all the leading events that had transpired since the day of Breeds . 
Lionel was chiefly a listener , nor did he cease the greedy and interesting employment until warned by his weakness , and the stroke of a neighbouring clock , that he was trespassing too far on prudence . 
His friend then assisted the exhausted invalid to his bed , and after giving him a world of good advice , together with a warm pressure of the hand , he stumped his way out of the room , with a noise that brought , at every tread , an echo from the heart of Major Lincoln . 
eaf055v2.n1 -LSB- 1 -RSB- This regiment , in consequence of some tradition , kept a goat , with gilded horns , as a memorial . 
Once a year it celebrated a festival in which the bearded quadroped acted a conspicous part . 
In the battle of Bunker-hill , the corps was distinguished alike for its courage and its losses . 
Polwarth , in consideration of the dilapidated state of his own limbs , together with the debility of Lionel , had so far braved the ridicule of the army , as to set up one of those comfortable and easy conveyances , which , in the good old times of colonial humility , were known by the quaint and unpretending title of tom-pungs . 
The animal had been taught , by virtue of much training from his groom , aided a little , perhaps , by the low state of the garners of the place , to amble through the snow as quietly as if he were conscious of the altered condition of his master 's health . 
In this safe vehicle the two gentlemen might be seen daily gliding along the upper streets of the town , and moving through the winding paths of the common , receiving the congratulations of their friends ; or , in their turn , visiting others , who , like themselves , had been wounded in the murderous battle of the preceding summer , but who , less fortunate than they , were still compelled to submit to the lingering confinement of their quarters . 
exclaimed Agnes , with a sparkling eye , and with a woman 's intuitive perception of the other 's motives , `` all Englishmen are not Lionel Lincolns . '' 
Lionel looked a little embarrassed , and fingered a paper he held in his hand , for a moment , before he handed it to the other for his perusal . 
`` I had hoped it would be my old companion and school-fellow ? '' 
what , me ! '' 
`` You forget your mother , '' continued Lionel , as though the other had not spoken ; `` I am very sure it will give her heartfelt pleasure . '' 
Polwarth hesitated a single instant longer , and then , as he remembered his distant mother , for Lionel had touched the right chord , his heart melted within him . 
Perhaps , Leo , when a certain young lady sees I can have a ` te deum ' for my adventure , she may cease to think me such an object of pity as at present ? '' 
Lionel bowed in silence , and the captain , turning to Agnes , conducted her to the sleigh with a particularly lofty air , that he intended should indicate his perfect superiority to the casualties of war . 
Until this day , which was the second Sunday since his reappearance , and the first on which the weather permitted him to go abroad , Lionel had no opportunity to observe the altered population of the town . 
Lionel observed the change with mortification , nor did it escape his uneasy glances , that his two female companions concealed their faces in their muffs , as if to exclude a view that brought still more painful recollections to minds early trained in the reflecting habits of the country . 
When the sleigh drew up before the edifice , a dozen hands were extended to assist the ladies in their short but difficult passage into the heavy portico . 
Agnes coldly bowed her acknowledgments , observing , with an extremely equivocal smile , to one of the most assiduous of the young men -- `` We , who are accustomed to the climate , find no difficulty in walking on ice , though to you foreigners it may seem so hazardous . '' 
In consequence of the rapid movement of their companions , Lionel and Polwarth were left among the crowd of officers who thronged the entrance of the church . 
With one of the gentlemen of the latter class Lionel was held for some time in discourse , in a distant part of the portico . 
Though Lionel had not heard the voice since the echoing cry had issued out of the fatal redoubt , he knew its first tones on the instant . 
Turning at this singular denunciation , he beheld Job Pray , erect and immovable as a statue , in one of the niches , in front of the building , whence he gave forth his warning voice , like some oracle speaking to its devotees . 
demanded Lionel -- `` how dare you brave our resentment so wantonly ? '' 
But his questions were unheeded . 
Without even altering the riveted gaze of his unmeaning eye , he continued -- `` Wo unto you ! 
for ye neither go in yourselves ; neither suffer ye them that are entering to go in ! '' 
demanded Lionel . 
In an instant the eye of the other was turned on his interrogator , and Major Lincoln felt a thrill pass through him , when he met the wild gleam of intelligence that lighted the countenance of the changeling , as he continued in the same ominous tones -- `` Whosoever shall say to his brother , Raca , shall be in danger of the council ; but whosoever shall say , Thou fool , is in danger of hell-fire . '' 
For a moment Lionel stood as if spell-bound , by the manner of Job , while he uttered this dreadful anathema . 
`` Job 's a prophet , '' returned the other , dishonouring his declaration at the same time , by losing the singular air of momentary intelligence , in his usual appearance of mental imbecility -- `` it 's wicked to strike a prophet . 
The Jews stoned the prophets , and beat them too . '' 
`` Do then as I bid you -- would you stay here to be beaten by the soldiers ? 
Go now , away ; after service come to me , and I will furnish you with a better coat than the garment you wear . '' 
At the same moment Lionel turned from him , attracted by the rattling of side arms , and the tread of many feet behind him . 
Amongst them Lionel recognised , at the first glance , two of the chieftains , who , a little in advance of their attendants , were keenly eyeing the singular being that was squatted in the niche . 
Notwithstanding his surprise , Major Lincoln detected the scowl that impended over the dark brow of the commander-in-chief , while he bowed low , in deference to his rank . 
`` 'T is an unfortunate being , wanting in intellect , with whom accident has made me acquainted , '' returned Major Lincoln ; `` who hardly knows what he utters , and least of all , in whose presence he has been speaking . '' 
Lionel was about to reply with some little spirit , when the companion of the frowning chief suddenly exclaimed -- `` By the feats of the feathered Hermes , but this is the identical Merry Andrew who took the flying leap from Copp 's , of which I have already spoken to you . 
-- Am I in error , Lincoln ? 
`` I believe your memory is faithful , sir , '' said Lionel , answering the smile of the other -- `` the lad is often brought to trouble by his simplicity ? '' 
Burgoyne gave a gentle impulse to the arm he held , as if he thought the wretched being before them unworthy of further consideration ; though secretly with a view to prevent an impolitic exhibition of the well-known propensity of his senior to push his notions of military ascendency to the extreme . 
As the whole group of spectators , consisting of aids , secretaries , and idlers , without , immediately imitated the example of the generals , Lionel found himself alone with the changeling . 
cried Lionel , dragging him , without further ceremony , from the niche -- `` will you persevere in that foolish cry until you are whipped from regiment to regiment for your pains ! '' 
but unless you learn to keep silence , boy , I shall forget my promise , and give you up to the anger of all the grannies in town . '' 
`` Well , '' said Job , brightening in his look , like a fool in his exultation , `` they are half of them dead , at any rate ; Job heard the biggest man among 'em roar like a ravenous lion , ` hurrah for the royal Irish , ' but he never spoke ag ` in ; though there was n't any better rest for Job 's gun than a dead man 's shoulder ! '' 
cried Lionel , recoiling from him in horror , `` are your hands then stained with the blood of M`Fuse ! '' 
Lionel stood a moment in utter confusion of thought ; but hearing the infallible evidence of the near approach of Polwarth in his tread , he said , in a hurried manner , and in a voice half choked by his emotions -- `` Go , fellow , go to Mrs. Lechmere 's , as I bid you -- tell -- tell Meriton to look to my fire . '' 
The lad made a motion towards obeying , but checking himself , he looked up into the face of the other with a piteous and suffering look , and said -- `` See , Job 's numb with cold ! 
Nab and Job ca n't get wood now ; the king keeps men to fight for it -- let Job warm his flesh a little ; his body is cold as the dead ! '' 
Touched to the heart by the request , and the helpless aspect of the lad , Lionel made a silent signal of assent , and turned quickly to meet his friend . 
He kept his eyes on the form of the simpleton , as the lad shuffled his way along the icy street , with an expression that could not easily be mistaken . 
Lionel bowed his thanks , and affected to laugh at the humour of his friend , while they proceeded together to the pew of Mrs. Lechmere without further delay . 
The painful reflections excited by this interview with Job , gradually vanished from the mind of Lionel , as he yielded to the influence of the solemn service of the church . 
He heard the difficult and suppressed breathing of the fair being who kneeled by his side , while the minister read those thanksgivings which personally concerned himself , and no little of earthly gratitude mingled with the loftier aspirations of the youth , as he listened . 
He caught the timid glance of the soft eye from behind the folds of Cecil 's veil , as they rose , and he took his seat as happy as an ardent young man might well be fancied , under the consciousness of possessing the best affections of a female so youthful , so lovely , and so pure . 
Perhaps the service was not altogether so consoling to the feelings of Polwarth . 
In addition to those very natural auxiliaries , love and hope , the cause of Mrs. Lechmere had found a very powerful assistant , in the bosom of Lionel , through an accident which had confined her for a long period , not only to her apartment , but to her bed . 
Her foot became entangled in her train , in ascending the stairs , but disregarding the warning cry of Agnes Danforth , with that sort of reckless vehemence that sometimes broke through the formal decorum of her manners , she sustained . 
in consequence , a fall that might well have proved fatal to a much younger woman . 
As Lionel heard this from the lips of Cecil , the reader will not imagine the effect produced by the interest his aunt took in his welfare , was at all lessened by the source whence he derived his knowledge . 
When the party returned from the church , Cecil and Agnes immediately hastened to the apartment of the invalid , leaving Lionel in possession of the little wainscoted parlour by himself ; Polwarth having proceeded to his own quarters , with the assistance of the hunter . 
Indeed , Lionel , you have every reason to be grateful for the deep interest my grandmother takes in your welfare ! 
`` It is to you , then , that much of my gratitude is due , '' returned Lionel ; `` for by permitting me to blend my lot with yours , I find new value in her eyes . 
while your life was in peril , I confined the knowledge of my interest in your situation to my own breast ; but when we were flattered with the hopes of a recovery , I placed your letter in the hands of my natural adviser , and have the consolation of knowing that she approves of my -- what shall I call it , Lionel -- would not folly be the better word ? '' 
For the first time , Lionel fully comprehended the cause of that variable manner with which Cecil had received his attentions , until interest in his person had stilled her sensitive feelings . 
In the first place , however , I do not believe your general can drive the Americans from their posts so easily ; for , by a very simple process in figures , that even I understand , you may find , if one hill costs so many hundred men , that the purchase of the whole would be too dear -- nay , Lionel , do not look so grave , I implore you ! 
`` Say on , '' said Lionel , instantly dismissing the momentary cloud from his brow , and smiling fondly in her anxious face ; `` I admire your casuistry , and worship your feeling ; but can , also , deny your argument . '' 
Reassured by his voice and manner , after a moment of extreme agitation , she continued in the same playful tones as before -- `` But we will suppose all the hills won , and the American chief , Washington , who , though nothing but a rebel , is a very respectable one , driven into the country with his army at his heels ; I trust it is to be done without the assistance of the women ? 
`` You have strangely forgotten the last six months , Lionel , or you would not accuse me of ignorance of the misery that war can inflict ! '' 
`` Is this altogether generous , Lincoln ? '' 
Cecil said nothing ; but smiling through her tears , she permitted Lionel to take her hand in a manner that a much less sanguine man would have found no difficulty in construing into an assent . 
Notwithstanding the buoyant hopes with which Lionel conducted his companion through the passages of the house , he did not approach the chamber of Mrs. Lechmere without some inward repugnance . 
His purpose , however , bore him onward , and a glance at the trembling being who now absolutely leaned on him for support , drove every consideration , in which she did not form a most prominent part , from his mind . 
The enfeebled appearance of the invalid , with a sudden recollection that she had sustained so much , in consequence of her anxiety in his own behalf , so far aided the cause of his aunt , that the young man not only met her with cordiality , but with a feeling akin to gratitude . 
The indisposition of Mrs. Lechmere had now continued for several weeks , and her features , aged and sunken as they were by the general decay of nature , afforded strong additional testimony of the severity of her recent illness . 
Her face , besides being paler and more emaciated than usual , had caught that anxious expression which great and protracted bodily ailing is apt to leave on the human countenance . 
`` It is kind , cousin Lionel , '' she said , extending her withered hand to her young kinsman , `` in the sick to come thus to visit the well . 
`` Would , madam , that you had as happily recovered from their effects as myself , '' returned Lionel , taking her hand and pressing it with great sincerity . 
`` No , not all , dear madam , '' interrupted Lionel ; `` I have something yet to add ; and in the commencement , I will own that I depend altogether on your pity and judgment to support my pretensions . '' 
`` Pretensions is an injudicious word , cousin Lionel ; where there is a perfect equality of birth , education , and virtues , and , I may say , considering the difference in the sexes , of fortune too , it may amount to claims ; but pretensions is an expresion too ambiguous . 
She motioned to Lionel to be seated , and when the door had closed on the retiring form of Cecil , she resumed the conversation . 
There is no necessity for useless reserves between us , cousin Lionel , for you will remember that I too am a Lincoln . 
Gradually her agitation subsided ; and as her feelings became more natural , her hard eyes filled with tears , and when she spoke , there was a softness mingled with the tremor of her voice that Lionel had never before witnessed . 
cried Lionel , melting before the touch of nature , which had so effectually softened the harsh feelings of Mrs. Lechmere ; `` let her come to my arms pennyless , and without a name ; she will be no less my wife , no less her own invaluable self . '' 
exclaimed Lionel . 
Lionel recoiled a step before the wild energy of the invalid 's manner , in speechless amazement . 
Lionel laid his land upon the night-bell , but an expressive gesture from his aunt prevented his ringing . 
Mrs. Lechmere drank freely from the glass , and in another minute her agitation subsided , her features settling into their rigid composure , and her eye resuming its hard expression , as though nothing had occurred to disturb her usual cold and worldly look . 
`` You see how much better youth can endure the ravages of disease than age , by my present weakness , Major Lincoln , '' she continued ; `` but let us return to other , and more agreeable subjects -- you have not only my consent , but my wish that you should wed my grandchild . 
Her colour went and came with alarming quickness , and the paper fell from her trembling hands to her feet , which appeared riveted to the floor . '' 
said Lionel , approaching , and leading her gently to a seat . 
Major Lincoln -- dear Lionel , you are not wont to be ungenerous ; I throw myself on your kindness ! '' 
Lionel did not speak , and Mrs. Lechmere calmly answered -- `` 'T is not at his , but at my request that you will comply . '' 
Miss Dynevor rose from her seat by the side of Lionel , with an air of offended delicacy , and said , with a mournful smile , to her lover -- `` Illness has rendered my good mother timid and weak -- will you excuse my desire to be alone with her . '' 
`` I leave you , Cecil , '' he said , `` but if you asscribe my silence to any other motive than tenderness to your feelings , you are unjust both to yourself and me . '' 
The half-hour that Lionel passed in his chamber seemed half a year , but at the expiration of that short period of time , Meriton came to announce that Mrs. Lechmere desired his presence again in her room . 
The first glance of her eye assured Major Lincoln that his cause had triumphed . 
His aunt had sunk back on her pillows , with her countenance set in a calculating and rigid expression , which indicated a satisfaction so selfish that it almost induced the young man to regret she had not failed . 
`` Perhaps 't was foolish , Lincoln , '' she said , smiling through her tears , and frankly placing her hand in his , `` to hesitate about a few days , when I feel ready to devote my life to your happiness . 
`` But none do nor can , '' interrupted Lionel . 
Lionel pressed the hand of his intended bride , and withdrew , and Cecil throwing herself into the arms of her grandmother , gave vent to her feelings in a burst of tears . 
Mrs. Lechmere did not repulse her child ; on the contrary , she pressed her once or twice to her heart , but still an observant spectator might have seen that her looks betrayed more of worldly pride , than of those natural emotions which such a scene ought to have excited . 
Lionel had much more to perform . 
In order to prevent a surprise , Meriton was sent to the clergyman , requesting him to appoint an hour in the evening when he could give an interview to Major Lincoln . 
He was answered , that at any moment after nine o'clock Dr. Liturgy would be released from the duties of the day , and in readiness to receive him . 
Major Lincoln distrusted a little the discretion of Polwarth , and he contented himself with merely telling his friend that he was to be married that evening , and that he must be careful to repair to Tremont-street in order to give away the bride ; appointing an hour sufficiently early for all the subsequent movements . 
His groom and his valet had their respective and separate orders , and long before the important moment he had every thing arranged , as he believed , beyond the possibility of a disappointment . 
Perhaps there was something a little romantic , if not diseased in the mind of Lionel , that caused him to derive a secret pleasure from the hidden movements he contemplated . 
He was certainly not entirely free from a touch of that melancholy and morbid humour which has been mentioned as the characteristic of his race , nor did he always feel the less happy because he was a little miserable . 
However , either by his activity of intellect , or that excellent training in life he had undergone , by being required to act early for himself , he had so far succeeded in quelling the evil spirit within him , as to render its influence quite imperceptible to others , and nearly so to himself . 
It had , in fine , left him what we have endeavoured to represent him in these pages , not a man without faults , but certainly one of many high and generous virtues . 
As the day drew to a close , the small family party in Tremont-street collected in their usual manner to partake of the evening repast , which was common throughout the colonies at that period . 
Cecil was pale , and at times a slight tremor was perceptible in the little hand which did the offices of the table ; but there was a forced calmness seated in her humid eyes that betokened the resolution she had summoned to her assistance , in order to comply with the wishes of her grandmother . 
It would seem , however , that the importance of the step she was about to take , had served to raise the bride above the little affectations of her sex ; for she spoke of the preparations like one who owned her interest in their completion , and who even dreaded that something might yet occur to mar them . 
`` If I were superstitious , and had faith in omens , Lincoln , '' she said , `` the hour and the weather might well intimidate me from taking this step . 
I dread exposing you and our kind cousin to the tempest , which , as you say , after sweeping over the ocean so long , appears rejoiced to find land on which to expend its fury . '' 
`` I have not misconstrued your meaning , Lionel , nor must you be mistaken in mine . 
Lionel made a lively reply , when a dialogue of some spirit ensued between him and Agnes , to which even Cecil listened with a beguiled ear . 
The presence of the captain reminded Lionel of the lateness of the hour , and , without delay , he hastened to communicate his plans to his friend . 
Referring the captain to Meriton for further instructions , and without waiting to hear the other express his amazement at the singularity of the plan , Major Lincoln said a few words of tender encouragement to Cecil , looked at his watch , and throwing his cloak around him , took his hat , and departed . 
As the residence of Dr. Liturgy was on the North-end , which was then one of the fashionable quarters of the town , the distance required that Lionel should be diligent , in order to be punctual to his appointment . 
The reverend gentleman was in his study , consoling himself for the arduous duties of the day , with the comforts of a large easy-chair , a warm fire , and a pitcher filled with a mixture of cider and ginger , together with other articles that would have done credit to the knowledge of Polwarth in spices . 
At length Lionel succeeded in making the astonished priest understand his wishes , and paused to hear the expected approbation of his proposal . 
he muttered in a low voice between his long drawn puffs -- `` 't is my duty -- certainly -- Major Lincoln -- to marry my parishioners '' -- `` In the present instance , as I know my request to be irregular , sir , '' interrupted the impatient Lionel , `` I will make it your interest also . '' 
Dr. Liturgy bowed his acknowledgments , and insensibly changed the stream of smoke to the opposite corner of his month , so as to leave the view of the glittering boon unobstructed . 
At the same time he raised the heel of one shoe , and threw an anxious glance at the curtained window , to inquire into the state of the weather . 
`` Could not the ceremony be performed at the house of Mrs. Lechmere ? '' 
he asked ; `` Miss Dynevor is a tender child , and I fear the cold air of the chapel might do her no service ! '' 
`` It is her wish to go to the altar , and you are sensible it is not my part to question her decision in such a matter . '' 
`` 'T is a pious inclination ; though I trust she knows the distinction between the spiritual and the temporal church . 
`` The mixture is not inaptly named , sir , '' said Lionel , after wetting his lips , `` if strength be the quality most considered ! '' 
He laughed at his own wit , and made a more spirituous than spiritual addition to his own glass , while he continued -- `` We divide it into ` Samson with his hair off , ' and ` Samson with his hair on ; ' and I believe myself the most orthodox in preferring the man of strength , in his native comeliness . 
I pledge you , Major Lincoln ; may the middle of your days be as happy as the charming young lady you are about to espouse may well render them ; and your end , sir , that of a good churchman , and a faithful subject . '' 
Lionel , who considered this compliment as an indication of his success , now rose , and said a few words on the subject of their meeting in the chapel . 
At length every difficulty was happily adjusted , save one , and that the epicurean doctor stoutly declared to be a serious objection to acting in the matter . 
`` I have heard that each party accuses the other of resorting to these unjustifiable means of annoyance , '' returned Lionel ; `` but as I know our own leader to be above such baseness , I will not suspect any other man of it without proof . '' 
`` I will take the charge on myself of having the fires renewed , '' said Lionel ; `` the embers must yet be in the stoves , and we have still an hour of time before us . '' 
Their plans were now soon arranged , and Lionel , after receiving the key of the chapel , took his leave for a time . 
When Major Lincoln found himself in the street again , he walked for some distance in the direction of the chapel , anxiously looking along the deserted way , in order to discover an unemployed soldier , who might serve to perform the menial offices of the absent sexton . 
He proceeded for some distance without success , for every thing human seemed housed , even the number of lights in the windows beginning to decrease in a manner which denoted that the usual hour of rest had arrived . 
Lionel forgot for a moment his present object , at this exhibition of human suffering , and with a kind voice he addressed the wretched being . 
Without ceasing to masticate his miserable nutriment , or even raising his eyes , the other said , in a growling voice -- `` The king could shut up the harbor , and keep out the ships ; but he has n't the might to drive cold weather from Boston , in the month of March ! '' 
Come with me , boy , and I will give you a better meal , and a warmer place to enjoy it in -- but first tell me ; can you procure a lantern and a light from your mother ? '' 
In a very few minutes Lionel saw the simpleton issuing from the house to which he had run at his bidding , with the desired lantern . 
`` Did you get any food , '' said Lionel , motioning to Job to precede him with the light -- `` I trust you did not entirely forget yourself in your haste to serve me ? '' 
`` Job hopes he did n't catch the pestilence , '' returned the lad , eating at the same time voraciously of a small roll of bread . 
`` The pestilence -- they are full of the foul disorder in that house . '' 
`` To the church , '' said Lionel , `` and swiftly , lad . '' 
exclaimed Lionel . 
The naked galleries , and many of the original ornaments were standing , but the accommodations below were destroyed , and in their places the floor had been covered with earth , for horses and their riders to practise in the cavesson . 
The abominations of the place even now offended his senses as he stood on that spot where he remembered so often to have seen the grave and pious colonists assemble , in crowds , to worship . 
On reaching the street his eyes fell upon the lights , and on the silent dignity of Province-house , and he was compelled to recollect , that this wanton violation of the feelings of the colonists , had been practised directly under the windows of the royal governor . 
`` Fools , fools ! '' 
he muttered bitterly ; `` when ye should have struck like men , ye have trifled as children ; and ye have forgotten your manhood , and even your God , to indulge your besotted spleen ! '' 
Lionel made no reply . 
It was free from that reckless contempt of a people 's feelings , which was exhibited in the prostitution of the ancient walls of the sister edifice , which was known throughout New-England , with a species of veneration , as the `` old South . '' 
He continued his way gloomily along the silent streets , until he reached the more favoured temple , in which the ritual of the English church was observed , and whose roof was rendered doubly sacred , in the eyes of the garrison , by the accidental circumstance of bearing the title of their earthly monarch . 
Major Lincolnfound the King 's Chapel differing in every particular from the venerable , but prostituted building he had just quitted . 
When the bustle of preparation had subsided , Lionel drew a chair from the chancel , while Job crouched by the side of the quivering iron he had heated , in that attitude he was wont to assume , and which so touchingly expressed the secret consciousness he felt of his own inferiority . 
As the grateful warmth diffused itself over the halfnaked frame of the simpleton , his head sunk upon his bosom , and he was fast falling into a slumber , like a worried hound that had at length found ease and shelter . 
A more active mind would have wished to learn the reasons that could induce his companion to seek such an asylum at that unseasonable hour . 
But Job was a stranger to curiosity ; nor did the occasional glimmerings of his mind often extend beyond those holy precepts which had been taught him with such care , before disease had sapped his faculties , or those popular principles of the time , that formed so essential a portion of the thoughts of every New-Englandman . 
In a short time the stillness of the chapel was restored , interrupted only by the passing gusts of the wind without , and the dull roaring of the furnace by whose side Job slumbered in a state of happy oblivion . 
Lionel endeavoured to still his truant thoughts , and bring them in training for the solemn ceremony in which he was soon to be an actor . 
Finding the task too difficult , he arose , and approaching a window , looked outupon the solitude , and the whirlwinds of snow that drifted through the streets , eagerly listening for those sounds of approach which his reason told him he ought not yet to expect . 
Again he seated himself , and turned his eyes inquiringly about him , with a sort of inward apprehension that some one lay concealed , in the surrounding gloom , with a secret design to mar his approaching happiness . 
There was so much of wild and feverish romance in the incidents of the day , that he found it difficult , at moments , to credit their reality , and had recourse to hasty glances at the altar , his attire , and even his insensible companion , to remove the delusion from his mind . 
Again he looked upward at the unsteady and huge shadows which wavered along the ceiling and the walls , and his former apprehensions of some hidden evil were revived with a vividness that amounted nearly to a presentiment . 
So uneasy did he become at length , under this impression , that he walked along the more distant aisles , scrupulously looking into the dark pews , and throwing a scrutinizing glance behind each column , and was rewarded for his trouble , by hearing the hollow echoes of his own footsteps . 
In returning from this round he approached the stove , and yielded to a strong desire of listening to the voice of even Job , in a moment of such morbid excitement . 
Touching the simpleton lightly with his foot , the other awoke with that readiness which denoted the sudden and disturbed nature of his ordinary rest . 
`` You are unusually dull to-night , Job , '' said Lionel , endeavouring to hush his uneasiness in affected pleasantry , `` or you would inquire the reason why I pay my visit to the chruch at this extraordinary hour ? '' 
`` Boston folks love their meetin ` us 's , '' returned the obtuse simpleton . 
but they love their beds , too , fellow ; and one-half of them are now enjoying what you seem to covet so much . '' 
Lionel remained silent , for several moments , under a keen perception of the suffering exhibited in the touching helplessness , which marked the manner of the other , before he continued -- `` But I expect to be joined , soon , by the clergyman , and some ladies , and captain Polwarth . '' 
`` God made hunger , '' said Job , gloomily , `` and he made food , too ; but the king keeps it all for his rake-hellies ! '' 
repeated Lionel , with an irritability that , at any other time , he would have been the first to smile at -- `` she has often given you money and clothes . '' 
This was certainly one of the least recommendations his mistress possessed , in the eyes of Lionel , who paused a moment , with inward vexation , before he added -- `` Let who will be her relatives , she is this night to become my wife . 
In the morning come to me for your reward . '' 
The changeling arose , with an air of singular importance , and answered -- `` To be sure . 
But ere Job had leisure to reply , though his vacant look again denoted that his thoughts were already contracting themselves within their usually narrow limits , a sudden noise drew the attention of both to the entrance of the chapel . 
The door opened in the next instant , and the figure of the divine , powdered with drifted snow , and encased in various defences against the cold , was seen , moving with a becoming gravity , through the principal aisle . 
Lionel hastened to receive him , and to conduct him to the seat he had just occupied himself . 
`` There is no reason why a church should not be as comfortable as a man 's library , Major Lincoln , '' he said , hitching his seat a little nearer to the stove . 
`` It is a puritanical and a dissenting idea , that religion has any thing forbidding or gloomy in its nature ; and wherefore should we assemble amid pains and inconvenience to discharge its sacred offices . '' 
`` Quite true , sir , '' returned Lionel , looking anxiously through one of the windows -- `` I have not yet heard the hour of ten strike , though my watch tells me it is time ! '' 
'T is a pity the little intellect he has , had not been better managed in his infancy ; but they have helped to crush his feeble mind with their subtleties , We -- I mean we of the established church -- often style him the Boston Calvin -- ha , ha , ha ! 
`` Oh , most certainly , '' said Lionel , again walking anxiously to the window ; `` would to God they had come ! '' 
At this instant Lionel caught a glimpse of the well-known sleigh , moving slowly along the deserted street , and uttering a cry of pleasure , he rushed to the door to receive his bride . 
The disposition of the candles having been previously made , when they were lighted , his book opened , his robes adjusted , and his features settled into a suitable degree of solemnity , he stood , waiting with becoming dignity the approach of those over whom he was to pronounce the nuptial benediction . 
Job placed himself within the shadows of the building , and stood regarding the attitude and imposing aspect of the priest , with a species of childish awe . 
Then came a group , emerging from the obscurity of the distant part of the church , and moving slowly toward the altar . 
Cecil was in front , leaning on that arm which Lionel had given her , as much for support , as through courtesy . 
As they approached the expecting priest , Cecil threw , by a gentle movement , her mantle on the rails of the chancel , and accompanied Lionel , with a firmer tread than before , to the foot of the altar . 
Her cheeks were pale ; but it was rather with a compelled resolution than dread , while her eyes were full of tenderness and thought : Of the two devotees of Hymen , she exhibited , if not the most composure , certainly the most singleness of purpose and intentness on the duty before them ; for while the looks of Lionel were stealing uneasily about the building , as if he expected some hidden object to start up out of the darkness , her 's were riveted on the priest in sweet and earnest attention . 
They paused in their alloted places ; and after a moment was allowed for Agnes and Polwarth , who alone followed , to enter the chancel , the low but deep tones of the minister were heard in the solemn stillness of the place . 
Cecil grasped the arm of Lionel convulsively , while a shudder passed through her frame , that seemed about to shake it to dissolution . 
Cecil pronounced her vows , and plighted her troth in tones of holy emotion , while Lionel , who was prepared for some strange calamity , went through the service to the end with a forced calmness . 
Cecil stood passively , and permitted Lionel to wrap her form in the folds of her mantle with tender care , and when she would have smiled her thanks for the attention , she merely raised her anxious eyes to the ceiling , with an expression that could not be mistaken . 
On entering the house , Agnes repaired to the room of her aunt , to report that the marriage knot was tied , while Lionel led his silent bride into the empty parlour . 
When he had relieved her light form from the load of garments in which it had been enveloped by his care , he impelled her gently to a seat by his side , on the settee , and for the first time since she had uttered the final vow at the altar , she spoke -- `` Was it a fearful omen ! '' 
Know , you , Lincoln , that in the haughty , the terrific outlines of those dreadful lineaments on the wall , I fancied a resemblance to the profile of our great uncle , your father 's predecessor in the title -- Dark Sir Lionel , as he was called ! '' 
`` Am I gloomy or superstitious by habit , Lionel ? '' 
she asked , with a deprecating tenderness in her voice , that touched his inmost heart -- `` but it came at such a moment , and in such a shape , that I should be more than woman not to tremble at its terrible import ! '' 
`` I believe -- that is I think , it is all as you say , Lionel , '' returned Cecil , still looking about her with a vacant and distressed air that curdled his blood ; `` yes -- yes , we are certainly married ; and Oh ! 
`` 'T was a shadow , as you say , Lincoln ; but where was the substance ! '' 
`` Cecil , my sensible , my good , my pious Cecil , why do your faculties slumber in this unaccountable apathy ! 
`` I may be weak , and silly , and even impious in this terror , Lincoln , '' she said , turning her softened looks upon his anxious face , and attempting to smile ; `` but it is assailing a woman in a point where she is most sensitive . 
But , exactly in the proportion as he persuaded her into forgetfulness of the past , his recollections became more vivid and keen ; and , notwithstanding his art , he might not have been able to conceal the workings of his troubled thoughts from his companion , had not Agnes appeared , and announced the desire of Mrs. Lechmere to receive the bride and bridegroom in her sick chamber . 
`` Come , Lincoln , '' said his lovely companion , rising at the summons , `` we have been selfish in forgetting how strongly my grandmother sympathizes in our good or evil fortunes . 
Without making any other reply than a fond pressure of the hand he held , Lionel drew her arm through his own , and followed Agnes into the little hall which conducted to the upper part of the dwelling . 
I must go and cast a worldly eye on the little banquet I have ordered , but which I fear will be labour thrown away , since captain Polwarth has disdained to exhibit his prowess at the board . 
`` Let us ascend , Lincoln , '' she said , instantly , `` and leave mad Agnes to her household cares , and her folly . '' 
Lionel , and his half-blushing , half-smiling companion , heard the dying sounds of her voice , as she entered the distant apartment , expressing , by its tones , the mingled pleasantry and spleen of its mistress , and in the next instant they forgot both Agnes and her humour , as they found themselves in the presence of Mrs. Lechmere . 
The first glance of his eye at their expecting relative , brought a painful throb to the heart of Major Lincoln . 
Her wrinkled and emaciated cheeks were flushed with an unnatural colour , that contrasted too violently with the marks which age and strong passions had impressed , with their indelible fingers , on the surrounding wreck of those haughty features , which had once been distinguished for great , if not attractive beauty . 
`` Here , then , Major Lincoln , you possess my greatest , I had almost said my only treasure ! '' 
Cecil , greatly shocked at the unguarded exultation of her grandmother , gently withdrew herself from her arms , and with eyes bent to the floor in shame , and burning cheeks , she willingly moved aside to allow Lionel to approach , and receive his share of the congratulations . 
Notwithstanding the high and disgusting triumph which had broken through the usually cold and cautious manner of the invalid , a powerful and unbidden touch of nature mingled in her address to the bridegroom . 
The fiery and unnatural glow of her eyes even softened with a tear , as she spoke -- `` Lionel , my nephew , my son , '' she said -- `` I have endeavoured to receive you in a manner worthy of the head of an ancient and honourable name ; but were you a sovereign prince , I have now done my last and best in your favour ! 
Lionel neither moved nor answered . 
Even Cecil , who clung to the arm of Lionel , with all a woman 's dependance on him she loved , was unnoticed by the latter , in the absorbing interest he took in the sudden reappearance of one whose singular and mysterious character had , long since , raised such hopes and fears in his own bosom . 
`` Your doors will shortly be open to all who may choose to visit here , '' the old man coldly answered ; `` why should I be driven from a dwelling where heartless crowds shall so soon enter and depart at will ! 
As he spoke , he extended , in his withered hand , an open letter towards Mrs. Lechmere , which the quick glance of Lionel told him bore his own name in the superscription . 
Mrs. Lechmere took the letter from the stranger with a sort of charmed submission , which denoted how completely his solemn manner had bent her to his will . 
The instant her look fell on the contents , it became fixed and wild . 
The note was , however , short , and the scrutiny was soon ended . 
Still she grasped it with an extended arm , though the vacant expression of her countenance betrayed that it was held before an insensible eye . 
A moment of silent and breathless wonder followed . 
It was succeeded by a shudder which passed through the whole frame of the invalid , her limbs shaking violently , until the rattling of the folds of the paper was audible in the most distant corner of the apartment . 
`` Aloud -- aloud , dear Lionel , '' said a faint but earnest whisper at his elbow ; `` aloud , I implore you , aloud ! '' 
In a voice rendered desperately calm by his emotions , he uttered the fatal contents of the note , in tones so distinct , that they sounded to his wife , in the stillness of the place , like the prophetic warnings of one from the dead : `` The state of the town has prevented that close attention to the case of Mrs. Lechmere , which her injuries rendered necessary . 
An inward mortification has taken place , and her present ease is only the forerunner of her death . 
I feel it my duty to say , that though she may live many hours , it is not improbable that she will die to-night . '' 
Dropping the note , Lionel exclaimed aloud , in the suddenness of his surprise -- `` Die to night ! 
The miserable woman , after the first nerveless moment of her dismay , turned her looks anxiously from face to face , and listened intently to the words of the note , as they fell from the lips of Lionel , like one eager to detect the glimmerings of hope in the alarmed expression of their countenances . 
Lionel Lincoln , whom I had thought my friend ! '' 
Lionel turned away silently from the sad spectacle of her misery ; but Cecil dropped on her knees at the bed-side , and clasping her hands , she elevated them , looking like a beautiful picture of pious hope , as she murmured -- `` He is no friend , dearest grandmother , who would lay flattery to a parting soul ! 
cried the devoted woman , rousing herself with a strength and energy that would seem to put the professional knowledge of her medical attendant at defiance -- `` do you also abandon me ! 
Lionel shuddered with inward horror while he listened to the forced and broken intonations of her voice , as she thus uttered the lingering wishes of her nature . 
`` My grandmother , look not so wildly at us ! '' 
She paused an instant to follow the unsettled and hopeless gaze of an eye that gleamed despairingly on the objects of the room , and then , with a meek dependence on her own purity , dropping her face between her hands , she cried aloud in her agony -- `` My mother 's mother ! 
Lionel now advanced to her bed-side , under an impulse that he could no longer subdue , and addressed her solemnly -- `` If thou knowest aught of the dreadful calamity that has befallen my family , '' he said , `` or in any manner hast been accessary to its cause , disburthen thy soul , and die in peace . 
I conjure thee , speak -- what of my injured mother ? '' 
`` Sister of thy grandfather -- mother of thy wife , '' repeated Mrs. Lechmere , slowly , and in a manner that sufficiently indicated the unsettled state of her thoughts -- `` Yes , both are true ! '' 
Cecil , Lionel -- my children , do ye desert me now ? 
Meeting the extended hand of Lionel , she caught it with a dying grasp , gave a ghastly smile , under the false security it imparted , and falling backward again , her mortal part settled , with an universal shudder , into a state of eternal rest . 
The room of Lionel was on the same floor with that which she had just left , and before she had time for reflection , her hand was on its lock . 
But , like the apartment of the dead , the room was still and empty . 
She was forced to yield to the impression that Lionel had deserted her in the most trying moment , and it was not strange that she coupled the sinister omens of the night with his mysterious absence . 
The piercing cry , however , notwithstanding the bustle of hurrying servants , and the clatter of knives and plates , penetrated to the supper-room , stilling each movement , and blanching every cheek . 
`` How know you , Mr. Meriton , that your master has been so far forgetful of appearances ? '' 
`` As certain , Ma'am , as I know that he wore his parade uniform this evening when he left the house the first time ; though little did I dream his honour was going to get married ! 
Meriton had long learned to identify all his interests with those of his master , and he coloured highly under the oblique imputation that he thought was no less cast on Lionel 's gallantry , than on his sense of propriety in general . 
`` Why , Miss Agnus , you will please remember , Ma'am , '' he answered , `` as this wedding has n't been at all like an English wedding -- nor can I say that it is altogether usual to die in England as suddenly as Ma'am Lechmere has been pleased '' -- `` Perhaps , '' interrupted Agnes , `` some accident may have happened to him . 
Surely no man of common humanity would willingly be away at such a moment ! '' 
Lord , yes , sir -- my Lady is in faintingfits , and master Lionel has gone , God knows whither , and Madam Lechmere is dead ! '' 
`` Lionel Lincoln is not a man to fly , because death approaches , '' returned the captain , musing ; `` and less should I suspect him of deserting , in her distress , one like the lovely creature he has married . 
I have gathered from the broken sentences of Cecil , that he , and some third person , to me unknown , were last with my aunt , and must have been present at her death ; for the face was covered . 
I found the bride in the room which Lionel has lately occupied -- the doors open , and with indications that he and his unknown companion had left the house by the private stairs , which communicate with the western door . 
It is , I believe , a soldier 's gorget ? '' 
inquired Agnes , in a soothing voice , of which , like the rest of her sex , she well knew not only the power , but when to exercise it . 
`` Then , if he be weak enough to forsake such a woman as my cousin , at the instigation of a fool , he is unworthy of another thought ! '' 
When he left the house to return to his own quarters , no tidings had been heard of Lionel , whose intentional absence was now so certain , that the captain proceeded to give his orders for the funeral of the deceased , without any further delay . 
Her maiden name was Lincoln , and she is aunt to the great Devonshire Baronet of that family . '' 
`` I have no knowledge of the Danforths , it is true , '' he answered , `` but I may boast of some intimacy with the family of Lincoln . '' 
`` Do you think , good woman , that a gentleman of Major Lincoln 's notion of things , would disappear after the decease of his relative , and leave a comparative stranger to fill the office of principal mourner ! '' 
`` The Lord forgive us all our sins and wickedness ! '' 
Polwarth regarded her unceremonious departure for a moment , in surprise , and then turning to his remaining companion , he remarked -- `` That woman is unsettled in her reason , for the want of wholesome nutriment . 
His kind feeling , however , got the better of his displeasure , and yielding to the interest he felt in the fate of Lionel , he answered -- `` I would go all lengths , and incur every hazard to do him service ! '' 
It had always been a matter of surprise to Polwarth , that a man like Lionel should tolerate so much of the society of the simpleton , nor had it escaped his observation that the communications between the two were a little concealed under a shade of mystery . 
The love of Polwarth for the grenadier was second only to his attachment for his earlier friend . 
The one had avowedly fallen , and he soon began to suspect that the other had been strangely inveigled from his duty by the agency of this ill-gifted changeling . 
To conceive an opinion , and to become confirmed in its justice , were results , generally , produced by the same operation of the mind , with this disciple of animal philosophy . 
Whilst he stood near the tomb of the Lechmeres , in the important character of chief mourner , he had diligently revolved in his mind the brief arguments which he found necessary to this conclusion . 
His proposition and inference were something as follows -- Job murdered M`Fuse ; some great evil has occurred to Lionel ; and therefore Job has been its author . 
He even listened , with unaccountable pleasure , to the threats and denunciations which filled the building ; until , he foresaw , from their savage nature , there was great danger that one half of his object , the discovery of Lionel , was likely to be frustrated by their fulfilment . 
`` You are thought to know the reasons why he has left his friends , '' returned Polwarth , `` and I now demand that you declare them . '' 
Has there not been one called Ralph , a frequent inmate of your dwelling , during the past year , and has he not been concealed here within a very few hours ? '' 
cried the almost breathless Cecil , instantly losing sight of herself in her anxiety for Lionel -- `` private sorrows have driven him to an act , that , at another time , he would be the first to condemn , as a soldier . '' 
Lincoln ! 
Lincoln ! '' 
cried the weeping bride , gently extricating herself from the long embrace of Lionel , `` at what a moment did you desert me ! '' 
If you love me , Lionel , as I would fain believe , let all the past be forgotten . 
she answered , shuddering ; then with a bright and instant smile , as if sedulous to chase every appearance of distrust or care from her countenance , she continued -- `` but I have no longer faith in omens , Lincoln ! 
I know not how you value the benedictions of a parting soul , Lionel , but to me there is holy consolation in knowing that my dying parent left her blessing on our sudden union ! '' 
-- You know the night was such that none would choose , uselessly , to brave its fury -- I attempted to profit by the storm , and availing myself of a flag , which is regularly granted to the simpleton , Job Pray , I left the town . 
borne along rather by a tempest of passions that mocked the feebler elements , we ventured too much -- Cecil , I was not alone ! '' 
cried Lionel , in ungovernable mental anguish , as he paced the floor , in violent disorder . 
`` Lionel ! '' 
I see you relent , and will be more just to us both ; more dutiful to your God ! 
` Twere easy to convince their leaders that you are innocent of so base a purpose ! '' 
repeated Lionel , with unconcealed disdain -- again pacing the room with swift and uneasy steps , without deigning any other notice of the unwelcome intruder . 
Cecil bowed her head , and sinking in a chair , concealed her face in her small muff , as if to exclude some horrid and fearful sight from her view . 
The momentary silence was broken by the sound of footsteps and of voices in the passage ; and at the next instant the door of the room opening , Meriton was seen on its threshold . 
`` Fear not for me , Cecil , and least of all for yourself , '' said Lionel , drawing her to his bosom with fond solicitude -- `` my headlong rashness , or , rather , that fatal bane to the happiness of my house , the distempered feeling which you must have often seen and deplored , has indeed led me into a seeming danger . 
`` I have no suspicions -- no knowledge of any imperfections -- no regrets , Lionel ; nothing but the most ardent wishes for your peace of mind ; and -- if I might explain ! 
-- yes , now is a time -- Lionel , kind , but truant Lionel '' -- Her words were interrupted by Ralph , who appeared again in the room , with that noiseless step , which , in conjunction with his great age and attenuated frame , sometimes gave to his movements and aspect the character of a being superior to the attributes of humanity . 
said Lionel -- `` to submit to the degradation of a disguise , success should be certain . '' 
hesitate not a moment longer , Lincoln , '' cried Cecil , with a change of purpose as sudden as the impulse was powerful -- `` fly , leave me ; my sex and station will be '' -- `` Never , '' said Lionel , casting the garment from him , in cool disdain . 
`` You shall not part , '' said Ralph , once more raising the rejected coat , and lending his aid to envelop the form of Lionel , who stood passive under the united efforts of his bride and her aged assistant -- `` Remain here , '' the latter added , when their brief task was ended , `` and await the summons to freedom . 
Proceeding to the door , he beckoned her to approach , indicating , by an expressive gesture to Lionel , that he was to remain stationary . 
When Cecil had complied , and they were in the narrow passage of the building , Ralph , instead of betraying any apprehension of the sentinel who paced its length , fearlessly approached , and addressed him with the confidence of a known friend -- `` See ! '' 
he said , removing the calash from before the pale features of his companion , `` how terror for the fate of her husband has caused the good child to weep ! 
With trembling eagerness she glided past the sentinel , and pressed to the side of Lionel , with a dependence that might have betrayed the deception to one more accustomed to the forms of life , than was the honest countrymen who had , so recently , thrown aside the flail to carry a musket . 
Following the example of their aged conductor , Lionel and his trembling companion walked with apparent indifference towards this man , who , as it proved , was better deserving of his trust than his fellow , within doors . 
one , two , three ; our English gallant might be among you , and there would still be two left ! 
Come , come , old father , render some account of yourself , and of your command . 
For , to be plain with you , there are those who think you are no better than a spy of Howe 's , notwithstanding you are left to run up and down the camp , as you please . 
When they had turned a corner , at a little distance from any pressing danger , he relaxed in his movements , and suffering his eager companions to approach , he stole to the side of Lionel , and clenching his hand fiercely , he whispered in a voice half choked by inward exultation -- `` I have him now ? 
`` Of whom speak you , '' demanded Lionel -- `` what is his offence , and where is your captive ? '' 
`` Old man , '' said Lionel , firmly , `` that I have followed you thus far on no unworthy errand , you best may testify -- I have forgotten the oath which , at the altar , I had sworn to , to cherish this sweet and spotless being at my side , at your instigation , aided by the maddening circumstances of a moment ; but the delusion has already passed away ! 
The high exultation which had , so lately , rendered the emaciated countenance of Ralph hideously ghastly , disappeared like a passing shadow , and he listened to the words of Lionel with calm and settled attention . 
I am strong , dearest Lionel , and will follow to the ends of the earth , so you but lead ! '' 
`` Lionel Lincoln , I have not deceived thee ! '' 
said the old man , solemnly . 
returned Lionel , pressing Cecil still closer to his side -- `` here we part , or your promises are fulfilled . '' 
`` This very controversy may prove your ruin -- did I not say I would accompany you , Lincoln ? '' 
`` Lead on , then , '' said her husband , motioning Ralph to proceed -- `` once again will I confide in you ; but use the trust with discretion , for my guardian spirit is at hand , and remember , thou no longer leadest a lunatic ! '' 
Lionel and Cecil slightly glanced their eyes at the silent walls , and followed into a small enclosure , through a gap in its humble and dilapidated fence . 
`` Think not of me , dearest Lincoln '' -- Cecil was interrupted by the voice of the old man , who raising his hat , and baring his gray locks to the mild rays of the planet , answered , with tremulous emotion -- `` Thy task is already ended ! 
Lionel recoiled , a pace , in horror ; then imitating the action of the old man , he uncovered his head , in pious reverence of the parent , whose form floated dimly in his imagination , like the earliest recollections of infancy , or the imperfect fancies of some dream . 
said Lionel , whose eye was already kindling with a wild and disordered meaning , that curdled the blood of the anxious Cecil , who watched its expression with a woman 's solicitude . 
said Cecil , clinging to his side in undisguised alarm -- `` Lincoln , you are not equal to the scene ! '' 
`` Nay , Lionel , you overrate your powers ! 
`` I have told you that I am equal to any thing , '' sternly answered Lionel ; `` here will I sit , on this humble tablet , to hear all that you can utter , though the rebel legions encircle me to my death ! '' 
`` My wife , '' said Lionel , extending his hand , kindly , towards the shrinking form of Cecil . 
Lionel sunk on the dilapidated grave-stone to which he had just alluded , and gathering his coat about him , he rested an arm upon his knee , while its hand supported his quivering chin , as if he were desperately bent on his gloomy purpose . 
The old man smiled with his usual ghastly expression , as he witnessed this proof of his success , and he took a similar seat on the opposite side of the grave , which seemed the focus of their common interest . 
Here he dropped his face between his hands , and appeared to muse like one who was collecting his thoughts for the coming emergency . 
During this short and impressive pause , Lionel felt the trembling form of Cecil drawing to his side , and before his aged companion spoke , her unveiled and pallid countenance was once more watching the changes of his own features , in submissive , but anxious attention . 
`` Thou knowest already , Lionel Lincoln , '' commenced Ralph , slowly raising his body to an upright attitude , `` how , in past ages , thy family sought these colonies , to find religious quiet , and the peace of the just . 
interrupted the impatient Lionel . 
Lionel felt a painful conviction of the connection , as the trembling object of these remarks sunk her head in shame and sorrow on his bosom , keenly alive to the justice of the character drawn of her deceased relative , by the mysterious being who had just spoken . 
The sweet child who clings to thee , in dread , Lionel , was not more pure and innocent than she who bore her . 
As Cecil heard this soothing commendation of her more immediate parents , she again raised her face into the light of the moon , and remained , where she was already kneeling , at the side of Lionel , no longer an uneasy , but a deeply interested listener to what followed . 
The beauty , and seeming virtues of this apparent angel in human form , caught the young eye of thy father , and in defiance of arts and schemes , before the long-expected title and fortune came , they were wedded , and thou wert born , Lionel , to render the boon of Fate doubly welcome . '' 
Lionel suffered a minute to pass without a question , in deference to this burst of feeling ; but soon making an impatient movement , it drew the eyes of Ralph once more upon him , and the old man continued -- `` Month after month , for two long and tedious years , did thy father linger in England , struggling for his own . 
He then hastened hither ; but there was no wife -- no fond and loving Priscilla , like that tender flower that reposes in thy bosom , to welcome his return `` I know it , '' said Lionel , nearly choked by his pious recollections -- `` she was dead . '' 
`` 'T is false , '' repeated Lionel , fiercely -- `` blacker than the darkest thoughts of the foul spirit of evil ! '' 
said Lionel , hoarsely , his body turning unconsciously away from Cecil -- `` does he yet live ? 
`` Lionel , Lionel , '' said the soothing voice of his bride , `` do you credit him ? '' 
said Ralph , with a horrid , inward laugh , as if he would deride the idea of incredulity ; `` all this must he believe , and more ! 
Once again , weak girl , did thy grandmother throw out her lures for the wealthy baronet , and when he would not become her son , then did she league with the spirits of hell to compass his ruin . 
Revenge took place of ambition , and thy husband 's father was the victim ! '' 
cried Lionel , nearly ceasing to breathe in the intensity of his interest . 
`` The blow had cut him to the heart , and for a time , his reason was crushed beneath its weight . 
Yet 't was but for an hour , compared to the eternity a man is doomed to live ! 
They profited by the temporary derangement , and when his wandering faculties were lulled to quiet , he found himself the tenant of a mad-house , where , for twenty long years , was he herded with the defaced images of his maker , by the arts of the base widow of John Lechmere . '' 
cried Lionel , clasping his hands wildly , and springing to his feet , with a violence that cast the tender form that still clung to him , aside , like a worthless toy -- `` Can this be proved ? 
The calm , but melancholy smile that was wont to light the wan features of the old man , when he alluded to his own existence , was once more visible , as he answered -- `` There is but little hid from the knowledge acquired by length of days ; besides , have I not secret means of intelligence that are unknown to thee ! 
`` Thou shalt have all thou askest , Lionel Lincoln , and more , '' returned Ralph , throwing into his manner and voice its utmost powers of solemnity and persuasion -- `` provided thou wilt swear eternal hatred to that country and those laws , by which an innocent and unoffending man can be levelled with the beasts of the field , and be made to rave even at his maker , in the hitterness of his sufferings . '' 
`` More than that -- ten thousand times more than that will I swear -- I will league with this rebellion '' -- `` Lionel , Lionel -- what is ' t you do ! '' 
Ralph , who was not less quick to hear these sounds than the timid bride , glided from the grave , and approached the high-way , whither he was slowly followed by his companions ; Lionel utterly indifferent whither he proceeded , and Cecil trembling in every limb , with terror for the safety of him who so little regarded his own danger . 
`` No , no -- he has pledged himself to no dishonour , '' cried Cecil -- `` Fly , Lincoln , while you are free , and leave me to meet the pursuers -- they will respect my weakness . '' 
Fortunately the allusion to herself awakened Lionel from the dull forgetfulness into which his faculties had fallen . 
Encircling her slight figure with his arm , he turned swiftly from the spot , saying , as he urged her forward -- `` Old man , when this precious charge is in safety , thy truth or falsehood shall be proved . '' 
But Ralph , whose unincumbered person , and iron frame , which seemed to mock the ravages of time , gave a vast superiority over the impeded progress of the other , moved swiftly ahead , waving his hand on high , as if to indicate his intention to join in the flight , while he led the way into the fields adjacent to the church-yard they had quitted . 
`` Then , here will we await our captors , '' said Lionel , with forced composure -- `` let the rebels beware how they abuse their slight advantage ! '' 
The sight of this man , alone , and removed from immediate aid , suggested a desperate thought for self-preservation to Lionel . 
`` To the point , '' was the ready answer ; `` yes , yes -- old and young -- big and little -- men and cre ` turs -- four-wheels and two-wheels -- every thing goes to the point to-night , as you can guess , fri ` nd ! 
said Lionel , eyeing both him and his passing team , in hesitation whether to attempt violence on one so infirm and helpless . 
`` Yes , yes , they spared me in the press , for they said I had done enough ; but I say a man has never done enough for his own country , when any thing is left to be done . 
`` She shall not detain you an instant , '' said Lionel , springing to the place where Cecil stood , partly concealed by the fence , and supporting her to the side of the rude vehicle -- `` you shall be amply rewarded for this service . '' 
`` Ay ! 
`` Perfectly , '' said Lionel , who had been preparing seats for himself and Cecil among the bundles of hay , and assisting his companion into her place during the dialogue -- `` we will detain you no longer . '' 
When the cart proceeded , he waved his hand , and gliding across the road , was soon lost to the eye in the misty distance , with which his gray apparel blended , like a spectre vanishing in air . 
To add to the embarrassment of their situation , Lionel found , when too late , that the route to Dorchester lay directly through the village of Cambridge . 
Contrary to all the just expectations which the impatient patriotism of the old yeoman had excited , instead of driving steadily through the place , he turned his cattle a little from the direct route , and stopped in front of the very inn , where Cecil had , so lately , been conducted by her guide from the point . 
Here the same noisy and thoughtless revelry existed as before . 
cried a man , approaching with a mug in his hand ; `` come , wet your throat , my venerable father of Liberty , for you are too old to be a son ! '' 
Lionel , whose gloomy thoughts had been chased from his mind by the constant excitement of the foregoing scenes , now felt relieved from any immediate apprehensions . 
Midnight had long passed when they came in sight of the eminences beyond Dorchester-neck . 
Cecil had awoke , and Lionel was already devising some plausible excuse for quitting the cart , without reviving the suspicions of the teamster . 
Lionel was on the point of speaking , when the cattle stopped , and Ralph suddenly appeared in the highway , at their heads . 
Lionel quickly obeyed , and by the time the driver had descended also , the whole party stood together in the road . 
`` You have conferred a greater obligation than you are aware of , '' said Lionel to the driver . 
The fugitives heard the call of the simple and garrulous old man , but , as will easily be imagined , did not deem it prudent to stop and discuss the point in question between them . 
Here they found , hid in the rushes of a shallow inlet , a small boat , that Lionel recognised as the little vessel in which Job Pray was wont to pursue his usual avocation of a fisherman . 
This sudden cannonade induced Lionel to steer his boat between the islands ; for the castle , and southern batteries of the town , were all soon united in pouring out their vengeance on the labourers , who still occupied the heights of Dorchester . 
As the little vessel glided by a tall frigate , Cecil saw the boy who had been her first escort in the wanderings of the preceding night , standing on its taffrail , rubbing his eyes with wonder , and staring at those hills , whose possession he had prophesied would lead to such bloody results . 
In short , while he laboured at the oars , Lionel witnessed the opening scene of Breed 's acted anew , as battery after battery , and ship after ship , brought their guns to bear on the hardy countrymen who had , once more , hastened a crisis by their daring enterprise . 
Lionel cast his eyes around on the dull misery which pervaded the neglected area . 
At what moment can the friend of liberty pass more unheeded , amongst these miscreant hirelings , than now , when fear has broken their slumbers ! 
It is probable that in the rapid glances of his mind , he traced the mysterious connexion between the abject tenant of the adjacent building , and the deceased grandmother of his bride , whose active agency in producing the calamities of his family had now been openly acknowledged . 
It was soon apparent that he wavered in his purpose , nor was he slow to declare it . 
`` I will attend you , '' he said ; `` for who can say what the hardihood of the rebels may next attempt , and future occasions may be wanting . 
I will first see this gentle charge of mine '' -- `` Lincoln , I can not -- must not leave you , '' interrupted Cecil , with earnest fervour -- `` go , listen , and learn all ; surely there can be nothing that a wife may not know ! '' 
Without waiting for further objection , Ralph made a hurried gesture of compliance , and turning , he led the way , with his usual , swift footsteps , into the low and dark tenement of Abigail Pray . 
On opening the door of this little apartment , not only Lionel and Cecil paused , but even the immovable old man , appeared to hesitate , in wonder . 
Polwarth was seated at his side , holding a pulse , with an air of medical deliberation ; and attempting , every few moments , to confirm his hopes or fears , as each preponderated in turn , by examining the glazed eyes of the subject of his care . 
Upon a party thus occupied , and with feelings so much engrossed , even the sudden entrance of the intruders was not likely to make any very sensible impression . 
A gleam of joy shot into the honest visage of the captain when he first beheld Lionel , accompanied by Cecil , but it was instantly chased away by the settled meaning of care which had gotten the mastery of his usually coutented expression . 
Lionel felt no disposition to contend with his friend on a point where the other 's opinions were so dogmatical , but turning to the woman , he said -- `` The experience of a professional nurse should have taught you , at least , more care . '' 
returned the forlorn Abigail -- `` no , no -- the ear can not be deaf to such a moaning , and wisdom is as folly when the heart bleeds . '' 
`` Lincoln , you chide unkindly , '' said Cecil -- `` let us rather attempt to avert the danger , than quarrel with its cause . '' 
`` Young lady , you little know a mother 's longings ; may you never know her sorrows ! 
I have been doing for the child these seven-and-twenty years ; rob me not of the pleasure , now that so little remains to be done . '' 
exclaimed Lionel , in surprise . 
He now turned to Lionel , and in a voice rendered even plaintive by his deep emotion , he asked the simple question -- `` Will he die ? '' 
Without regarding the wondering look of the captain , he waved his hand on high , as if to exhort to silence , and then gazing on the features of the sick , with melancholy interest , he said -- `` Here , then , is death again ! 
The secret of my transgression is known to him , when I had thought it buried in the affection of one only who owed me every thing . '' 
said Lionel , `` in attempting to deceive me , you deceive yourself . 
cried Cecil -- `` Lincoln , credit them not , they contradict themselves . '' 
exclaimed Lionel , once more breathing with freedom -- `` proceed with thy tale ; you confide it to friends ! '' 
repeated Lionel , `` say on , and I will bless thee ! '' 
`` Speak only of my mother , '' interrupted the impatient Lionel -- `` of my aunt , I already know the whole . '' 
`` And he , '' said Lionel , nearly choked by his emotions -- `` he believed it ! '' 
The heart we thought to alienate from its dead partner , we destroyed ; and the reason we conspired to deceive , was maddened ! '' 
Crouching more like a tiger than a man , he sprang upon her , with a cry so sudden , so wild , and so horrid , that it caused all within its hearing to shudder with instant dread . 
cried Lionel , advancing to the assistance of the struggling penitent ; `` thou , too , hoary-headed wretch , hast deceived me ! '' 
`` Lincoln ! 
Lincoln ! '' 
Lionel staggered back to the wall , where he stood motionless , and gasping for breath . 
cried the aroused keeper , for such in truth he was , `` and I have a mark for your malice , which would have gladly had me hung ! 
The females had hid their faces , in natural horror ; the maimed Polwarth was yet without his artificial limb ; and Lionel still looked upon the savage fray with a vacant eye . 
Above the outer-door of the mansion was suspended a gloomy hatchment , charged with the ` courant ' deer of Lincoln , encircled by the usnal mementos of mortality , and bearing the rare symbol of the `` bloody-hand . '' 
In another instant a careless observer would have thought that Lionel and his friend were the only living possessors of the church-yard . 
Their approaching footsteps were not unheeded , though , instead of facing those who so evidently wished to address her , she turned to the wall , and began to trace , with unconscious fingers , the letters of a tablet in slate , which was let into the brick-work , to mark the position of the tomb of the Lechmeres . 
`` Sir Lionel Lincoln speaks to you , '' said Polwarth , on whose arm the youthful baronet leaned . 
`` Say not so , '' observed Lionel ; `` you do outrage to the promises of one who never spoke false . '' 
Sir Lionel , again , remained profoundly silent . 
and to madden a brain , and strip a soul like his to nakedness ! 
Lionel dropped the key he held in his hand at her feet , and said , before he left her -- `` Yon vault is closed for ever , unless , at your request , it should be opened at some future time , to place you by the side of your son . 
Take it , and may heaven forgive you , as I do . '' 
He let fall a heavy purse by the side of the key , and , without uttering more , he again took the arm of Polwarth , and together they left the place . 
She had risen to her knees ; her hands had grasped a head-stone , and her face was bowed nearly to the earth , while by the writhing of her form , and the humility of her attitude , it was apparent that her spirit struggled powerfully with the Lord for mercy . 
The slate has long since mouldered from the wall ; the sod has covered the stone , and few are left who can designate the spot where the proud families of Lechmere and Lincoln were wont to inter their dead . 
Sir Lionel and Polwarth proceeded , in the deepest silence , to the long-wharf , where a boat received them . 
`` I have only remained to give you a partingkiss , cousin Lionel , '' said the frank girl , affectionately saluting him , `` and now shall take my leave , without repeating those wishes that you know are so often conveyed in my prayers . '' 
`` You know that this cruelty '' -- He was interrupted by a loud hem from Polwarth , who advanced , and taking the hand of the lady , repeated his wish to retain it for ever , for at least the fiftieth time . 
The captain sustained the repulse like one who had seen much similar service , and politely lent his assistance to help the obdurate girl into her boat . 
Here she was received by a young man who was apparelled like an American officer . 
Sir Lionel thought the bloom on her cheek deepened , as her companion , assiduously , drew a cloak around her form to protect her from the chill of the water . 
The keeper who had been sent in quest of the fugitive madman , never returned to his native land . 
Lionel , tired at length with importuning without success , commissioned the husband of Agnes to place him in a situation , where , by industry , his future comfort was amply secured . 
When England was threatened with the French invasion , the garrison he commanded was distinguished for being better provisioned than any other in the realm , and no doubt it would have made a resistance equal to its resources . 
In Parliament , where he sat for one of the Lincoln boroughs , he was chiefly distinguished for the patience with which he listened to the debates , and for the remarkable cordiality of the ` ay ' that he pronounced on every vote for supplies . 
From this time , until the eruption of the French revolution , Sir Lionel Lincoln , and Lady Cardonnell , as Cecil was now styled , lived together in sweetest concord , the gentle influence of her affection moulding and bending the feverish temperament of her husband , at will . 
The historical facts of our legend are beginning to be obscured by time ; and it is more than probable , that the prosperous and affluent English peer , who now enjoys the honours of the house of Lincoln , never knew the secret history of his family , while it sojourned in a remote province of the British empire . 
