`` I believe you are one of the best fellows in the world , '' he said , `` Tom Pinch . '' 
`` Not at all , '' rejoined Tom . 
`` For whose you please , Tom , so that it does please you . 
He 's a famous fellow ! 
He never scraped and clawed into his pouch all your poor grandmother 's hard savings -- she was a housekeeper , was n't she , Tom ? '' 
`` He never scraped and clawed into his pouch all her hard savings ; dazzling her with prospects of your happiness and advancement , which he knew -LRB- and no man better -RRB- never would be realized ! 
Not he , Tom ! '' 
`` No , '' said Tom , looking into his friend 's face , as if he were a little doubtful of his meaning ; `` of course not . '' 
`` So I say , '' returned the youth , `` of course he never did . 
He did n't take less than he had asked , because that less was all she had , and more than he expected : not he , Tom ! 
He does n't keep you as his assistant because you are of any use to him ; because your wonderful faith in his pretensions is of inestimable service in all his mean disputes ; because your honesty reflects honesty on him ; because your wandering about this little place all your spare hours , reading in ancient books , and foreign tongues , gets noised abroad , even as far as Salisbury , making of him , Pecksniff the master , a man of learning and of vast importance . 
He gets no credit from you , Tom , not he . '' 
`` Why , of course he do n't , '' said Pinch , gazing at his friend with a more troubled aspect than before . 
`` Why , it 's madness , '' said Tom . 
Who but a madman would suppose he cares to hear it said on Sundays , that the volunteer who plays the organ in the church , and practises on summer evenings in the dark , is Mr. Pecksniff 's young man , eh , Tom ? 
Who but a madman would suppose it is the game of such a man as he , to have his name in everybody 's mouth , connected with the thousand useless odds and ends you do -LRB- and which , of course , he taught you -RRB- , eh , Tom ? 
Who but a madman would suppose you advertise him hereabouts , much cheaper and much better than a chalker on the walls could , eh , Tom ? 
As well might one suppose that he does n't on all occasions pour out his whole heart and soul to you ; that he does n't make you a very liberal and indeed rather an extravagant allowance ; or , to be more wild and monstrous still if that be possible , as well might one suppose , '' and here , at every word , he struck him lightly on the breast , `` that Pecksniff traded in your nature , and that your nature was , to be timid and distrustful of yourself , and trustful of all other men , but most of all , of him who least deserves it . 
There would be madness , Tom ! '' 
`` Both hands , Tom . 
Blessings on thy simple heart , Tom Pinch , how proudly dost thou button up that scanty coat , called by a sad misnomer , for these many years , a `` great '' one ; and how thoroughly as with thy cheerful voice thou pleasantly adjurest Sam the hostler `` not to let him go yet , '' dost thou believe that quadruped desires to go , and would go if he might ! 
Who could repress a smile -- of love for thee , Tom Pinch , and not in jest at thy expense , for thou art poor enough already , Heaven knows -- to think that such a holiday as lies before thee , should awaken that quick flow , and hurry of the spirits , in which thou settest down again , almost untasted , on the kitchen window-sill , that great white mug -LRB- put by , by thy own hands , last night , that breakfast might not hold thee late -RRB- , and layest yonder crust upon the seat beside thee , to be eaten on the road , when thou art calmer in thy high rejoicing ! 
Who , as thou drivest off , a happy man , and noddest with a grateful lovingness to Pecksniff in his nightcap at his chamber-window , would not cry , `` Heaven speed thee , Tom , and send that thou wert going off for ever to some quiet home where thou mightst live at peace , and sorrow should not touch thee ! '' 
The sheep-bells rang as clearly in the vigorous air , as if they felt its wholesome influence like living creatures ; the trees , in lieu of leaves or blossoms , shed upon the ground a frosty rime that sparkled as it fell , and might have been the dust of diamonds -- so it was , to Tom . 
The crust of ice on the else rippling brook , was so transparent and so thin in texture , that the lively water might , of its own free will , have stopped -- in Tom 's glad mind it had -- to look upon the lovely morning . 
And lest the sun should break this charm too eagerly , there moved between him and the ground a mist like that which waits upon the moon on summer nights -- the very same to Tom -- and wooed him to dissolve it gently . 
Tom Pinch went on ; not fast , but with a sense of rapid motion , which did just as well ; and as he went , all kinds of things occurred to keep him happy . 
Thus when he came within sight of the turnpike , and was -- Oh a long way off ! 
-- he saw the tollman 's wife , who had that moment checked a waggon , run back into the little house again like mad , to say -LRB- she knew -RRB- that Mr. Pinch was coming up . 
-- to Tom 's intense delight . 
The very tollman , though an ugly chap in general , and one whom folks were rather shy of handling , came out himself to take the toll , and give him rough good morning : and what with all this , and a glimpse of the family breakfast on a little round table before the fire , the crust Tom Pinch had brought away with him acquired as rich a flavour as though it had been cut from off a fairy loaf . 
It was not only the married people and the children who gave Tom Pinch a welcome as he passed . 
No , no Sparkling eyes and snowy breasts came hurriedly to many an upper casement as he clattered by , and gave him back his greeting : not stinted either , but sevenfold , good measure . 
And some of the wickedest among them even kissed their hands as Tom looked back . 
There was no harm in him . 
And now the morning grew so fair , and all things were so wide awake and gay , that the sun seeming to say -- Tom had no doubt he said -- `` I ca n't stand it any longer : I must have a look '' -- streamed out in radiant majesty . 
said Tom Pinch , stopping , `` who 'd have thought of seeing you here ? 
Mark touched his hat , and said , with a very sudden decrease of vivacity , that he was going to Salisbury . 
Now , the organist 's assistant was a friend of Mr. Pinch 's , which was a good thing , for he too was a very quiet , gentle soul , and had been , like Tom , a kind of old-fashioned boy at school , though well-liked by the noisy fellows too . 
As good luck would have it -LRB- Tom always said he had great good luck -RRB- the assistant chanced that very afternoon to be on duty by himself , with no one in the dusty organ-loft but Tom : so while he played , Tom helped him with the stops ; and finally , the service being just over , Tom took the organ himself . 
As the grand tones resounded through the church , they seemed , to Tom , to find an echo in the depth of every ancient tomb , no less than in the deep mystery of his own heart . 
Great thoughts and hopes came crowding on his mind as the rich music rolled upon the air , and yet among them -- something more grave and solemn in their purpose , but the same -- were all the images of that day , down to its very lightest recollection of childhood . 
The feeling that the sounds awakened , in the moment of their existence , seemed to include his whole life and being ; and as the surrounding realities of stone and wood and glass grew dimmer in the darkness , these visions grew so much the brighter that Tom might have forgotten the new pupil and the expectant master , and have sat there pouring out his grateful heart till midnight , but for a very earthy old verger insisting on locking up the cathedral forthwith . 
So he took leave of his friend , with many thanks , groped his way out , as well as he could , into the now lamp-lighted streets , and hurried off to get his dinner . 
All the farmers being by this time jogging homewards , there was nobody in the sanded parlour of the tavern where he had left the horse ; so he had his little table drawn out close before the fire , and fell to work upon a well-cooked steak and smoking hot potatoes , with a strong appreciation of their excellence , and a very keen sense of enjoyment . 
Beside him , too , there stood a jug of most stupendous Wiltshire beer ; and the effect of the whole was so transcendent , that he was obliged every now and then to lay down his knife and fork , rub his hands , and think about it . 
He was young -- one-and-twenty , perhaps -- and handsome ; with a keen dark eye , and a quickness of look and manner which made Tom sensible of a great contrast in his own bearing , and caused him to feel even more shy than usual . 
Tom made frequent reference to it also : partly from a nervous sympathy with his taciturn companion ; and partly because the new pupil was to inquire for him at half after six , and the hands were getting on towards that hour . 
Whenever the stranger caught him looking at this clock , a kind of confusion came upon Tom as if he had been found out in something ; and it was a perception of his uneasiness which caused the younger man to say , perhaps , with a smile : `` We both appear to be rather particular about the time . 
`` At half-past six , '' said Tom in the very same breath ; whereupon the other looked at him with some surprise . 
`` The young gentleman , I expect , '' remarked Tom , timidly , `` was to inquire at that time for a person of the name of Pinch . '' 
`` Thank you , '' said Tom , `` thank you . 
I -- I am very glad , '' said Tom , smiling with an embarrassed frankness peculiarly his , and which was as plainly a confession of his own imperfections , and an appeal to the kindness of the person he addressed , as if he had drawn one up in simple language and committed it to paper : `` I am very glad indeed that you turn out to be the party I expected . 
said Tom , with great pleasure . 
`` Upon my word I am , '' replied his new acquaintance . 
`` Oh , certainly , '' said Tom . 
It was all on Mr. Pinch 's side , and Mr. Chuzzlewit said he was very much afraid it would encumber him ; to which Tom said , `` Not at all ; '' though it forced him into such an awkward position , that he had much ado to see anything but his own knees . 
Their principal topic of discourse was naturally Mr. Pecksniff and his family ; of whom , and of the great obligations they had heaped upon him , Tom Pinch , with the tears standing in his eyes , drew such a picture , as would have inclined any one of common feeling almost to revere them : and of which Mr. Pecksniff had not the slightest foresight or preconceived idea , or he certainly -LRB- being very humble -RRB- would not have sent Tom Pinch to bring the pupil home . 
cried Tom , with great pride . 
`` Nothing , '' answered Tom . 
`` Well , '' returned his friend , `` you are a very strange fellow ! '' 
`` It led to my seeing , '' said Tom , in a lower voice , `` one of the loveliest and most beautiful faces you can possibly picture to yourself . '' 
`` And yet I am able to picture a beautiful one , '' said his friend , thoughtfully , `` or should be , if I have any memory . '' 
`` She came , '' said Tom , laying his hand upon the other 's arm , `` for the first time , very early in the morning , when it was hardly light ; and when I saw her , over my shoulder , standing just within the porch , I turned quite cold , almost believing her to be a spirit . 
responded Tom . 
said Tom Pinch . 
cried Tom , `` to have given her but a minute 's pleasure every day , I would have gone on playing the organ at those times until I was an old man : quite contented if she sometimes thought of a poor fellow like me , as a part of the music ; and more than recompensed if she ever mixed me up with anything she liked as well as she liked that ! '' 
The same man was in waiting for the horse who had been adjured by Mr. Pinch in the morning not to yield to his rabid desire to start ; and after delivering the animal into his charge , and beseeching Mr. Chuzzlewit in a whisper never to reveal a syllable of what he had just told him in the fulness of his heart , Tom led the pupil in , for instant presentation . 
`` Old Tom Pinch ! '' 
`` You 'll bear us company , Tom Pinch ? '' 
Ay , cheerfully , though it had been to death , would Tom have followed him : glad to lay down his life for such a man ! 
Tom fully assented ; and , what is more , fully believed it . 
The magnitude of these preparations quite took away Tom Pinch 's breath : for though the new pupils were usually let down softly , as one may say , particularly in the wine department , which had so many stages of declension , that sometimes a young gentleman was a whole fortnight in getting to the pump ; still this was a banquet : a sort of Lord Mayor 's feast in private life : a something to think of , and hold on by , afterwards . 
He even seemed to think that he was doing quite a regular thing , and to expect that Mr. Pinch would follow his example , since he took occasion to observe of that young man `` that he did n't get on : '' a speech of so tremendous a character , that Tom cast down his eyes involuntarily , and felt as if he himself had committed some horrible deed and heinous breach of Mr. Pecksniff 's confidence . 
-- `` A one-eyed calender , I think , sir , '' faultered Tom . 
Martin attended him ; and they remained in secret conference together for an hour or more ; leaving Tom Pinch alone . 
When the young man returned , he was very taciturn and dull , in which state he remained all day ; so that Tom , after trying him once or twice with indifferent conversation , felt a delicacy in obtruding himself upon his thoughts , and said no more . 
He would not have had leisure to say much , had his new friend been ever so loquacious : for first of all Mr. Pecksniff called him down to stand upon the top of his portmanteau and represent ancient statues there , until such time as it would consent to be locked ; and then Miss Charity called him to come and cord her trunk ; and then Miss Mercy sent for him to come and mend her box ; and then he wrote the fullest possible cards for all the luggage ; and then he volunteered to carry it all downstairs ; and after that to see it safely carried on a couple of barrows to the old finger-post at the end of the lane ; and then to mind it till the coach came up . 
`` I was almost afraid , '' said Tom , taking a letter from his pocket , and wiping his face , for he was hot with bustling about though it was a cold day , `` that I should n't have had time to write it , and that would have been a thousand pities : postage from such a distance being a serious consideration , when one 's not rich . 
Tom Pinch seemed a little disposed to be melancholy for half a minute or so , but he found comfort very soon , and pursued his ruminations thus : `` I 'm a nice man , I do n't think , as John used to say -LRB- John was a kind , merry-hearted fellow : I wish he had liked Pecksniff better -RRB- to be feeling low , on account of the distance between us , when I ought to be thinking , instead , of my extraordinary good-luck in having ever got here . 
Here he comes while the words are on my lips , '' said Tom : `` walking down the lane as if the lane belonged to him . '' 
As the coach appeared at the same moment , Tom lost no time in entreating the gentleman last mentioned , to undertake the delivery of his letter . 
He made the promise with so much condescension and patronage , that Tom felt he had asked a great deal -LRB- this had not occurred to his mind before -RRB- , and thanked him earnestly . 
Tom was greatly pleased to see them so merry , for he took it as a token of their favour , and good-humoured regard . 
Therefore he laughed too and rubbed his hands , and wished them a pleasant journey and safe return , and was quite brisk . 
said Tom ; `` what is the matter ? '' 
`` Well , '' cried Tom , `` now do you know I am in capital spirits today , and scarcely ever felt more disposed to be good company . 
`` Just what I felt to be so very likely , '' Tom rejoined : `` but no , he keeps his word , and says , ` My dear Pinch , I often think of you , ' and all sorts of kind and considerate things of that description . '' 
said Tom , looking wistfully in his companion 's face . 
If Diogenes coming to life again could have rolled himself , tub and all , into Mr. Pecksniff 's parlour , and could have seen Tom Pinch as he sat on Mercy Pecksniff 's stool , with his plate and glass before him , he could not have faced it out , though in his surliest mood , but must have smiled good-temperedly . 
The perfect and entire satisfaction of Tom ; his surpassing appreciation of the husky sandwiches , which crumbled in his mouth like sawdust ; the unspeakable relish with which he swallowed the thin wine by drops , and smacked his lips , as though it were so rich and generous that to lose an atom of its fruity flavour were a sin ; the look with which he paused sometimes , with his glass in his hand , proposing silent toasts to himself ; and the anxious shade that came upon his contented face when after wandering round the room , exulting in its uninvaded snugness , his glance encountered the dull brow of his companion ; no cynic in the world , though in his hatred of its men a very griffin , could have withstood these things in Thomas Pinch . 
`` That 's right , '' said Tom , nodding approvingly . 
said Tom . 
`` Pretty well for my time of life , '' rejoined Martin , drawing his chair still nearer to the fire , and spreading his feet out on the fender . 
said Tom . 
cried Tom . 
`` Neither have I , '' said Tom , touching the young man 's hand with his own and timidly withdrawing it again . 
`` Why as to that you know , Pinch , '' pursued the other , stirring the fire again , and speaking in his rapid , off-hand way : `` it 's all very right and proper to be fond of parents when we have them , and to bear them in remembrance after they 're dead , if you have ever known anything of them . 
cried Tom . 
cried Tom . 
`` I beg your pardon , '' answered Tom . 
`` That 's true , '' Tom answered . 
he added , glancing at Martin 's handsome face . 
`` Just what I supposed , '' said Tom . 
and , in his great satisfaction , he took a long sip out of his wine-glass . 
Now you must bear in mind , Pinch , that I am not only desperately fond of her -LRB- for though she is poor , her beauty and intellect would reflect great credit on anybody , I do n't care of what pretensions , who might become her husband -RRB- , but that a chief ingredient in my composition is a most determined -- '' `` Obstinacy , '' suggested Tom in perfect good faith . 
`` I beg your pardon , '' said Tom , `` I thought you wanted a word . '' 
`` I did n't want that word , '' he rejoined . 
cried Tom , screwing up his mouth , and nodding . 
`` No , no , '' said Tom . 
said Tom . 
`` Very well , '' rejoined Martin , throwing himself back in his chair , with a careless wave of both hands , as if the subject were quite settled , and nothing more could be said about it -- `` There is an end of the matter , and here am I ! '' 
As soon as I found it to be his , I was doubly bent on coming to him if possible , on account of his being -- '' `` Such an excellent man , '' interposed Tom , rubbing his hands : `` so he is . 
`` To say nothing of her , '' remarked Tom Pinch , in a low voice . 
It was a very long time before Tom said `` Certainly ; '' so long , that he might have taken a nap in the interval , but he did say it at last . 
`` Surely I do , '' said Tom , rising from his stool , and seating himself in the chair from which the other had lately risen , that he might see his face . 
`` I knew what you were going to say , '' cried Tom , looking fixedly at him , and speaking very softly . 
`` It is not very wholesome , I am afraid , '' said Tom , setting down the empty glass he had for some time held . 
Martin nodded assent : and adding , with a restless impatience , that if he had been a few days earlier he would have seen her ; and that now she might be , for anything he knew , hundreds of miles away ; threw himself , after a few turns across the room , into a chair , and chafed like a spoilt child . 
Tom Pinch 's heart was very tender , and he could not bear to see the most indifferent person in distress ; still less one who had awakened an interest in him , and who regarded him -LRB- either in fact , or as he supposed -RRB- with kindness , and in a spirit of lenient construction . 
Whatever his own thoughts had been a few moments before -- and to judge from his face they must have been pretty serious -- he dismissed them instantly , and gave his young friend the best counsel and comfort that occurred to him . 
`` All will be well in time , '' said Tom , `` I have no doubt ; and some trial and adversity just now will only serve to make you more attached to each other in better days . 
What never ran smooth yet , '' said Tom , with a smile , which despite the homeliness of his face , was pleasanter to see than many a proud beauty 's brightest glance : `` what never ran smooth yet , can hardly be expected to change its character for us ; so we must take it as we find it , and fashion it into the very best shape we can , by patience and good-humour . 
-- Here he rumpled his hair impatiently with his hand , and looked at Tom as if he took it rather ill that he was not somebody else -- `` You might as well be a toasting-fork or a frying-pan , Pinch , for any help you can render me . '' 
`` Except in the inclination , '' said Tom , gently . 
demanded Tom . 
`` I shall be delighted , '' cried Tom , catching up the candle , with enthusiasm . 
replied his friend , yawning and stretching himself . 
cried Tom . 
`` No , I never tried that , '' said Tom . 
Mr. Pinch lost no time in moving away ; and in a minute or two returned with one of the precious volumes from the shelf beside his bed . 
`` No , no , '' said Tom . 
cried Tom . 
Mr. Pinch accordingly , after turning over the leaves of his book with as much care as if they were living and highly cherished creatures , made his own selection , and began to read . 
Before he had completed fifty lines , his friend was snoring . 
said Tom , softly , as he stretched out his head to peep at him over the backs of the chairs . 
But suddenly remembering their compact , he took up the poem at the place where he had left off , and went on reading ; always forgetting to snuff the candle , until its wick looked like a mushroom . 
He gradually became so much interested , that he quite forgot to replenish the fire ; and was only reminded of his neglect by Martin Chuzzlewit starting up after the lapse of an hour or so , and crying with a shiver : `` Why , it 's nearly out , I declare ! 
The new pupil received Tom 's compliments very graciously ; and having by this time conceived a real regard for him , in his own peculiar way , predicted that they would always be the very best of friends , and that neither of them , he was certain -LRB- but particularly Tom -RRB- , would ever have reason to regret the day on which they became acquainted . 
They were both very busy on the afternoon succeeding the family 's departure -- Martin with the grammar-school , and Tom in balancing certain receipts of rents , and deducting Mr. Pecksniff 's commission from the same ; in which abstruse employment he was much distracted by a habit his new friend had of whistling aloud , while he was drawing -- when they were not a little startled by the unexpected obtrusion into that sanctuary of genius , of a human head , which although a shaggy and somewhat alarming head , in appearance , smiled affably upon them from the doorway , in a manner that was at once waggish , conciliatory , and expressive of approbation . 
Martin looked to Mr. Pinch for an explanation ; and Tom , who had never in his life set eyes on Mr. Tigg before , looked to that gentleman himself . 
`` Thank you , '' said Tom . 
said Tom , aloud . 
`` He did n't leave any letter with me , '' said Tom . 
cried Tom , quite scared . 
With which he rapped Tom twice or thrice upon the breast and nodded several times , as though he would say , that he saw they understood each other ; that it was unnecessary to mention the circumstance before a third person ; and that he would take it as a particular favour if Tom would slip the amount into his hand , as quietly as possible . 
-- Mr. Tigg received this declaration with a grave request that Mr. Pinch would have the goodness to make it again ; and on Tom 's repeating it in a still more emphatic and unmistakeable manner , checked it off , sentence for sentence , by nodding his head solemnly at the end of each . 
`` I am very sorry I am sure , '' said Tom after a pause , `` but Mr. Pecksniff said nothing to me about it , and I could n't act without his instructions . 
Tom thought of reminding the gentleman -LRB- who , no doubt , in his agitation had forgotten it -RRB- that there was a post-office in the land ; and that possibly if he wrote to some friend or agent for a remittance it might not be lost upon the road ; or at all events that the chance , however desperate , was worth trusting to . 
`` Certainly not , '' said Tom . 
`` Of course I do , '' cried Tom . 
Mr. Pinch was not so dismayed by this terrible threat , but that he had voice enough to call to Mark to come in , and up stairs ; a summons which he so speedily obeyed , that almost as soon as Tom and Mr. Tigg had drawn in their heads and closed the window again , he the denounced appeared before them . 
cried Tom . 
asked Tom , retiring with him to a corner of the room . 
Tom shook his head to an extent that left no doubt of his entire sincerity . 
said Tom . 
`` These are agreeable circumstances in which to be introduced to strangers , '' said Chevy Slyme , turning his bloodshot eyes towards Tom Pinch . 
Tom begged he would n't mention it ; and finding him in this condition , retired , after an awkward pause , followed by Martin . 
`` Thank you , '' answered Tom . 
said Tigg , following him . 
`` Oh , certainly , '' replied Tom , `` if you really wish it . '' 
So he accompanied Mr. Tigg to the retreat in question : on arriving at which place that gentleman took from his hat what seemed to be the fossil remains of an antediluvian pocket-handkerchief , and wiped his eyes therewith . 
`` Do n't mention that , '' said Tom , `` I beg . '' 
Tom had certain ideas of his own upon the subject of glory ; and consequently he was not quite so much excited by this picture as Mr. Tigg could have desired . 
`` Not very pleasantly , I must say , '' answered Tom , after a little hesitation . 
All Tom 's worldly wealth until next quarter-day . 
`` That 'll find me , '' said Tom . 
`` Yes : or Monday will do , '' observed Tom . 
`` Since you are so particular about it , '' said Tom , `` I think we did . '' 
Tom entertained enough suspicion that Martin might possibly turn this interview into a jest , to render him desirous to avoid the company of that young gentleman for the present . 
With this view he took a few turns up and down the skittle-ground , and did not re-enter the house until Mr. Tigg and his friend had quitted it , and the new pupil and Mark were watching their departure from one of the windows . 
`` And staying here would be better than either , Mark , '' replied Tom . 
Are we ready to go and see Tom Pinch 's sister ? 
Tom Pinch 's sister was governess in a family , a lofty family ; perhaps the wealthiest brass and copper founders ' family known to mankind . 
`` I know he has the will , sir , '' said Tom Pinch 's sister , `` and I know how kindly and considerately you cherish it , for which neither he nor I can ever be grateful enough , as we very often say in writing to each other . 
cried Cherry , as they both apprised Tom Pinch 's sister , with a curtsey , that they would feel obliged if she would keep her distance . 
`` It was very kind of you , '' said Tom Pinch 's sister , with Tom 's own simplicity , and Tom 's own smile , `` to come here : very kind indeed : though how great a kindness you have done me in gratifying my wish to see you , and to thank you with my own lips , you , who make so light of benefits conferred , can scarcely think . '' 
`` It makes me happy too , '' said Ruth Pinch , who now that her first surprise was over , had a chatty , cheerful way with her , and a single-hearted desire to look upon the best side of everything , which was the very moral and image of Tom ; `` very happy to think that you will be able to tell him how more than comfortably I am situated here , and how unnecessary it is that he should ever waste a regret on my being cast upon my own resources . 
So long as I heard that he was happy , and he heard that I was , '' said Tom 's sister , `` we could both bear , without one impatient or complaining thought , a great deal more than ever we have had to endure , I am very certain . '' 
And if ever the plain truth were spoken on this occasionally false earth , Tom 's sister spoke it when she said that . 
`` Thank you , '' said Tom 's sister heartily : `` a thousand times . '' 
`` Not at all , '' he retorted , patting her gently on the head . 
Martin 's facility , both of invention and execution , being remarkable , the grammar-school proceeded with great vigour ; and Tom repeatedly declared , that if there were anything like certainty in human affairs , or impartiality in human judges , a design so new and full of merit could not fail to carry off the first prize when the time of competition arrived . 
`` If I should turn out a great architect , Tom , '' said the new pupil one day , as he stood at a little distance from his drawing , and eyed it with much complacency , `` I 'll tell you what should be one of the things I 'd build . '' 
cried Tom . 
said Tom Pinch , quite as much delighted as if the thing were done . 
`` I 'd build it up , Tom , '' returned Martin , `` on such a strong foundation , that it should last your life -- aye , and your children 's lives too , and their children 's after them . 
I 'd be your patron , Tom . 
Let me see the man who should give the cold shoulder to anybody I chose to protect and patronise , if I were at the top of the tree , Tom ! '' 
`` I am afraid , '' said Tom , shaking his head , `` that I should be a mighty awkward person to provide for . '' 
Besides , confound it Tom , you could be useful to me in a hundred ways . '' 
`` If I were not useful in one or two , it should n't be for want of trying , '' said Tom . 
For it would be devilish creditable , Tom -LRB- I 'm quite in earnest , I give you my word -RRB- , to have a man of your information about one , instead of some ordinary blockhead . 
To say that Tom had no idea of playing first fiddle in any social orchestra , but was always quite satisfied to be set down for the hundred and fiftieth violin in the band , or thereabouts , is to express his modesty in very inadequate terms . 
He was much delighted , therefore , by these observations . 
`` I should be married to her then Tom , of course , '' said Martin . 
What was that which checked Tom Pinch so suddenly , in the high flow of his gladness : bringing the blood into his honest cheeks and a remorseful feeling to his honest heart , as if he were unworthy of his friend 's regard ! 
They 'd be very fond of you , Tom . '' 
`` All the children hereabouts are fond of you , Tom , and mine would be , of course , '' pursued Martin . 
Tom , eh ? 
Well I do n't know , Tom 's not a bad name . 
T. P. C. on his pinafores -- no objection to that , I should say . '' 
Tom cleared his throat , and smiled . 
`` She would like you , Tom , I know , '' said Martin . 
cried Tom Pinch , faintly . 
She would smile , Tom , often at first when you spoke to her , or when she looked at you -- merrily too -- but you would n't mind that . 
`` No , no , '' said Tom , `` I would n't mind that . '' 
`` She would be as tender with you , Tom , '' said Martin , `` as if you were a child yourself . 
So you are almost , in some things , a n't you , Tom ? '' 
Mr. Pinch nodded his entire assent . 
She would take to you uncommonly , Tom ; and would understand you far more delicately than I ever shall ; and would often say , I know , that you were a harmless , gentle , well-intentioned , good fellow . '' 
How silent Tom Pinch was ! 
There you shall play away , Tom , till you tire yourself ; and , as you like to do so in the dark , it shall be dark ; and many 's the summer evening she and I will sit and listen to you , Tom ; be sure of that ! '' 
It may have required a stronger effort on Tom Pinch 's part to leave the seat on which he sat , and shake his friend by both hands , with nothing but serenity and grateful feeling painted on his face ; it may have required a stronger effort to perform this simple act with a pure heart , than to achieve many and many a deed to which the doubtful trumpet blown by Fame has lustily resounded . 
`` It 's a proof of the kindness of human nature , '' said Tom , characteristically putting himself quite out of sight in the matter , `` that everybody who comes here , as you have done , is more considerate and affectionate to me than I should have any right to hope , if I were the most sanguine creature in the world ; or should have any power to express , if I were the most eloquent . 
But trust me , '' said Tom , `` that I am not ungrateful -- that I never forget -- and that , if I can ever prove the truth of my words to you , I will . '' 
`` Very fine talking , Tom ; but I 'm at Pecksniff 's , I remember , and perhaps a mile or so out of the high-road to fortune just at this minute . 
So you 've heard again this morning from what 's his name , eh ? '' 
asked Tom , seeming to enter a mild protest on behalf of the dignity of an absent person . 
`` Westlock , '' rejoined Tom , in rather a louder tone than usual . 
he has come into his property , '' answered Tom , nodding his head , and smiling . 
`` No , '' said Tom ; `` not all . '' 
For the matter of that , '' said Tom , `` it 's no mystery , and you wo n't think much of it ; but it 's very pleasant to me . 
`` Yes , I am I know , '' said Tom ; `` but you 'll make me nervous if you tell me so . 
`` Oh , yes , to be sure , '' cried Tom ; `` yes . 
Upon which John writes back this letter '' -- Tom produced it -- `` fixes to-morrow ; sends his compliments to you ; and begs that we three may have the pleasure of dining together -- not at the house where you and I were , either ; but at the very first hotel in the town . 
Tom could have wished him to be a little more astonished , a little more pleased , or in some form or other a little more interested in such a great event . 
But he was perfectly self-possessed : and , falling into his favourite solace of whistling , took another turn at the grammar-school , as if nothing at all had happened . 
The air was cold , Tom ; so it was , there is no denying it ; but would it have been more genial in the gig ? 
The loveliest things in life , Tom , are but shadows ; and they come and go , and change and fade away , as rapidly as these ! 
And behold , on the first floor , at the court-end of the house , in a room with all the window-curtains drawn , a fire piled half-way up the chimney , plates warming before it , wax candles gleaming everywhere , and a table spread for three with silver and glass enough for thirty -- John Westlock : not the old John of Pecksniff 's , but a proper gentleman : looking another and a grander person , with the consciousness of being his own master and having money in the bank : and yet in some respects the old John too , for he seized Tom Pinch by both his hands the instant he appeared , and fairly hugged him , in his cordial welcome . 
`` Stand off a moment , Tom , '' cried the old pupil , laying one hand on each of Mr. Pinch 's shoulders , and holding him out at arm 's length . 
`` Why , it 's not so very long ago , you know , '' said Tom Pinch , `` after all . '' 
And then he pushed Tom down into the easiest chair , and clapped him on the back so heartily , and so like his old self in their old bed-room at old Pecksniff 's , that it was a toss-up with Tom Pinch whether he should laugh or cry . 
`` I have ordered everything for dinner , that we used to say we 'd have , Tom , '' observed John Westlock . 
said Tom Pinch , `` Have you ? '' 
Some of the things they brought him to carve , were such outrageous practical jokes , though , that it was impossible to stand it ; and when Tom Pinch insisted , in spite of the deferential advice of an attendant , not only on breaking down the outer wall of a raised pie with a tablespoon , but on trying to eat it afterwards , John lost all dignity , and sat behind the gorgeous dish-cover at the head of the table , roaring to that extent that he was audible in the kitchen . 
It happened that Tom Pinch had a word to say to his friend the organist 's assistant , and so deserted his warm corner for a few minutes at this season , lest it should grow too late ; leaving the other two young men together . 
They drank his health in his absence , of course ; and John Westlock took that opportunity of saying , that he had never had even a peevish word with Tom during the whole term of their residence in Mr. Pecksniff 's house . 
This naturally led him to dwell upon Tom 's character , and to hint that Mr. Pecksniff understood it pretty well . 
He only hinted this , and very distantly : knowing that it pained Tom Pinch to have that gentleman disparaged , and thinking it would be as well to leave the new pupil to his own discoveries . 
`` It 's impossible to like Pinch better than I do , or to do greater justice to his good qualities . 
He 's the most willing fellow I ever saw . '' 
`` He 's rather too willing , '' observed John , who was quick in observation . 
`` It 's quite a fault in him . '' 
`` Perhaps you have not had an opportunity of observing that , in his own pecuniary transactions , Tom 's proud . '' 
Wo n't he borrow ? '' 
`` He 's a strange compound , to be sure . '' 
`` As to receiving money as a gift , '' resumed John Westlock ; `` I think he 'd die first . '' 
`` He 's made up of simplicity , '' said Martin . 
Tom entered as the words were spoken , with a radiant smile upon his face ; and rubbing his hands , more from a sense of delight than because he was cold -LRB- for he had been running fast -RRB- , sat down in his warm corner again , and was as happy as -- as only Tom Pinch could be . 
There is no other simile that will express his state of mind . 
`` And so , '' he said , when he had gazed at his friend for some time in silent pleasure , `` so you really are a gentleman at last , John . 
`` Trying to be , Tom ; trying to be , '' he rejoined good-humouredly . 
`` I suppose you would n't carry your own box to the mail now , '' said Tom Pinch , smiling : `` although you lost it altogether by not taking it . '' 
It must be a very heavy box that I would n't carry to get away from Pecksniff 's , Tom . '' 
The great fault in his character is his injustice to Pecksniff . 
You mus n't mind a word he says on that subject . 
His prejudice is most extraordinary . '' 
`` The absence of anything like prejudice on Tom 's part , you know , '' said John Westlock , laughing heartily , as he laid his hand on Mr. Pinch 's shoulder , `` is perfectly wonderful . 
If one man ever had a profound knowledge of another , and saw him in a true light , and in his own proper colours , Tom has that knowledge of Mr. Pecksniff . '' 
`` Why , of course I have , '' cried Tom . 
If you knew him as well as I do -- John , I 'd give almost any money to bring that about -- you 'd admire , respect , and reverence him . 
`` If I had known whereabout his feelings lay , '' retorted young Westlock , `` I 'd have done my best , Tom , with that end in view , you may depend upon it . 
But as I could n't wound him in what he has not , and in what he knows nothing of , except in his ability to probe them to the quick in other people , I am afraid I can lay no claim to your compliment . '' 
`` His feelings ! 
Oh , he 's a tender-hearted man . 
His feelings ! 
Oh , he 's a considerate , conscientious , self-examining , moral vagabond , he is ! 
His feelings ! 
-- what 's the matter Tom ! '' 
`` I ca n't bear it , '' said Tom shaking his head . 
`` Why , it 's my old way , Tom ; and you say yourself that you are glad to find me unchanged . '' 
`` Not in this respect , '' said Tom Pinch . 
exclaimed the other , exchanging looks with Martin ; `` and I am quite wrong , Tom . 
`` Anything , Tom , or anybody . 
`` Thank you , '' cried Tom , shaking hands with him eagerly , and filling a bumper . 
No slight circumstance , perhaps , could have better illustrated the difference of character between John Westlock and Martin Chuzzlewit , than the manner in which each of the young men contemplated Tom Pinch , after the little rupture just described . 
The old pupil could not do enough to show Tom how cordially he felt towards him , and his friendly regard seemed of a graver and more thoughtful kind than before . 
The new one , on the other hand , had no impulse but to laugh at the recollection of Tom 's extreme absurdity ; and mingled with his amusement there was something slighting and contemptuous , indicative , as it appeared , of his opinion that Mr. Pinch was much too far gone in simplicity , to be admitted as the friend , on serious and equal terms , of any rational man . 
`` You 're not asleep yet , are you , Tom ? '' 
not I. I was thinking of you , '' replied Tom , opening the door . 
You know a Mr. Tigg , Tom , I believe ? '' 
cried Tom . 
`` He begged me to present his compliments , and to return it with many thanks . 
I suppose it 's a good one , but he is rather a doubtful kind of customer , Tom . '' 
`` Why , to tell you the truth , Tom , '' replied his friend , `` he is not always so . 
If you 'll take my advice , you 'll avoid him as much as you can , in the event of your encountering him again . 
And by no means Tom -- pray bear this in mind , for I am very serious -- by no means lend him money any more . '' 
said Tom , with his eyes wide open . 
`` He is very far from being a reputable acquaintance , '' returned young Westlock ; `` and the more you let him know you think so , the better for you , Tom . '' 
`` Oh but I am uneasy , '' said Tom Pinch ; `` I ca n't help it , when I hear you talking in that way . 
`` No , no , '' returned his friend , composing his features . 
`` I tell you , my dear good old fellow , '' cried his friend , shaking him to and fro with both hands , and smiling at him with a cheerful , open countenance , that would have carried conviction to a mind much more suspicious than Tom 's ; `` I tell you there is no danger . '' 
cried Tom , `` I am glad to hear it ; I am overjoyed to hear it . 
said the other , giving his hand a hearty squeeze ; `` why what do you think I am made of ? 
Mr. Tigg and I are not on such an intimate footing that you need be at all uneasy ; I give you my solemn assurance of that , Tom . 
`` Quite , '' said Tom . 
cried Tom ; `` and such pleasant dreams to you , as should attend the sleep of the best fellow in the world ! '' 
`` Except Pecksniff , '' said his friend , stopping at the door for a moment , and looking gaily back . 
`` Except Pecksniff , '' answered Tom , with great gravity ; `` of course . '' 
And thus they parted for the night ; John Westlock full of light-heartedness and good humour ; and poor Tom Pinch quite satisfied , though still , as he turned over on his side in bed , he muttered to himself , `` I really do wish , for all that , though , that he was n't acquainted with Mr. Tigg ! '' 
The parting was an unusually hearty one , not only as between him and Tom Pinch , but on the side of Martin also , who had found in the old pupil a very different sort of person from the milksop he had prepared himself to expect . 
They were walking at a brisk pace , and Tom appeared to be talking earnestly . 
Martin had taken off his great-coat , the wind being now behind them , and carried it upon his arm . 
As he looked , he saw Tom relieve him of it , after a faint resistance , and , throwing it upon his own , encumber himself with the weight of both . 
In the mean time , Martin and Tom pursued their way , until they halted , safe and sound , at Mr. Pecksniff 's house , where a brief epistle from that good gentleman to Mr. Pinch , announced the family 's return by that night 's coach . 
This mood of his depressed Tom ; and neither that morning 's parting , nor yesterday 's dinner , helped to mend the matter . 
From this it may be inferred , that Martin 's spirits had not improved , as indeed they had not ; for while he and Mr. Pinch stood waiting under a hedge , looking at the rain , the gig , the cart , and its reeking driver , he did nothing but grumble ; and , but that it is indispensable to any dispute that there should be two parties to it , he would certainly have picked a quarrel with Tom . 
Immediately on its stopping , Mr. Pecksniff let down the window-glass and hailed Tom Pinch . 
`` Yes , sir , '' cried Tom , advancing eagerly , `` Mr. Chuzzlewit and I , sir -- '' `` Oh ! '' 
Lost in astonishment , Martin stood staring at the coach ; and when the coach had driven away , at Mr. Pinch and the luggage ; until the cart moved off too ; when he said to Tom : `` Now , will you have the goodness to tell me what this portends ? '' 
asked Tom . 
Indeed I did not , '' cried Tom . 
And without another word he started off at such a pace , that Tom had some difficulty in keeping up with him . 
He had no care where he went , but walked through little heaps of mud and little pools of water with the utmost indifference ; looking straight before him , and sometimes laughing in a strange manner within himself . 
Tom felt that anything he could say would only render him the more obstinate , and therefore trusted to Mr. Pecksniff 's manner when they reached the house , to remove the mistaken impression under which he felt convinced so great a favourite as the new pupil must unquestionably be labouring . 
But he was not a little amazed himself , when they did reach it , and entered the parlour where Mr. Pecksniff was sitting alone before the fire , drinking some hot tea , to find , that instead of taking favourable notice of his relative , and keeping him , Mr. Pinch , in the background , he did exactly the reverse , and was so lavish in his attentions that Tom was thoroughly confounded . 
Tom saw that Martin looked at Mr. Pecksniff as though he could have easily found it in his heart to give him an invitation to a very warm place ; but he was quite silent , and standing opposite that gentleman at the table , regarded him attentively . 
`` You -- you will be very much pleased with the grammar-school , sir , '' said Tom . 
`` And what , '' said Mr. Pecksniff , turning his eyes on Tom Pinch , even more placidly and gently than before , `` what have you been doing Thomas , humph ? '' 
Tom was almost at his wits ' end what to say between the two , and had already made a gesture as if he would call Mr. Pecksniff 's attention to the gentleman who had last addressed him , when Martin saved him further trouble , by doing so himself . 
It is enough to know that Tom Pinch caught him in his arms , and that at the same moment Mr. Pecksniff stepped back so hastily , that he missed his footing , tumbled over a chair , and fell in a sitting posture on the ground ; where he remained without an effort to get up again , with his head in a corner ; perhaps considering it the safest place . 
Still he was Pecksniff ; it was impossible to deprive him of that unique and paramount appeal to Tom . 
And he returned Tom 's glance , as if he would have said , `` Aye , Mr. Pinch , look at me ! 
He went so rapidly that he was already clear of the village , when he heard Tom Pinch calling breathlessly after him in the distance . 
he said , when Tom came up . 
cried Tom , `` are you going ? '' 
he echoed . 
cried Tom . 
`` Yes , '' he answered sternly , `` I am . '' 
cried Tom . 
`` I do n't know , '' he said . 
`` No , no , '' cried Tom , in a kind of agony . 
`` My mind is made up , '' he said . 
cried Tom , pressing a book upon him in great agitation . 
Carrying Tom Pinch 's book quite unconsciously under his arm , and not even buttoning his coat as a protection against the heavy rain , Martin went doggedly forward at the same quick pace , until he had passed the finger-post , and was on the high road to London . 
He looked at the dingy lettering on the back , and finding it to be an odd volume of the `` Bachelor of Salamanca , '' in the French tongue , cursed Tom Pinch 's folly , twenty times . 
He was on the point of throwing it away , in his ill-humour and vexation , when he bethought himself that Tom had referred him to a leaf , turned down ; and opening it , at that place , that he might have additional cause of complaint against him for supposing that any cold scrap of the Bachelor 's wisdom could cheer him in such circumstances , found -- Well , well ! 
not much , but Tom 's all . 
He had wrapped it hastily in a piece of paper , and pinned it to the leaf . 
There are some falsehoods , Tom , on which men mount , as on bright wings , towards Heaven . 
Martin felt keenly for himself , and he felt this good deed of Tom 's keenly . 
After a few minutes it had the effect of raising his spirits , and reminding him that he was not altogether destitute , as he had left a fair stock of clothes behind him , and wore a gold hunting-watch in his pocket . 
He found a curious gratification , too , in thinking what a winning fellow he must be to have made such an impression on Tom ; and in reflecting how superior he was to Tom ; and how much more likely to make his way in the world . 
Animated by these thoughts , and strengthened in his design of endeavouring to push his fortune in another country , he resolved to get to London as a rallying-point , in the best way he could ; and to lose no time about it . 
He was ten good miles from the village made illustrious by being the abiding-place of Mr. Pecksniff , when he stopped to breakfast at a little road-side alehouse ; and resting upon a high-backed settle before the fire , pulled off his coat , and hung it before the cheerful blaze , to dry . 
His first step , now that he had a supply of ready money for his present necessities , was , to retain his bed at the public-house until further notice , and to write a formal note to Tom Pinch -LRB- for he knew Pecksniff would see it -RRB- requesting to have his clothes forwarded to London by coach , with a direction to be left at the office until called for . 
These measures taken , he passed the interval before the box arrived -- three days -- in making inquiries relative to American vessels , at the offices of various shipping-agents in the city ; and in lingering about the docks and wharves , with the faint hope of stumbling upon some engagement for the voyage , as clerk or supercargo , or custodian of something or somebody , which would enable him to procure a free passage . 
For although , as we have seen , he was fond of Tom after his own fashion , he could not endure the thought -LRB- feeling so superior to Tom -RRB- of making him the stepping-stone to his fortune , or being anything to him but a patron ; and his pride so revolted from the idea , that it restrained him , even now . 
The five weeks had quite run out , and he was in a truly desperate plight , when one evening , having just returned to his lodging , and being in the act of lighting his candle at the gas jet in the bar before stalking moodily up stairs to his own room , his landlord called him by his name . 
Now , as he had never told it to the man , but had scrupulously kept it to himself , he was not a little startled by this ; and so plainly showed his agitation , that the landlord , to reassure him , said `` it was only a letter . '' 
` My dear Tom Pinch . ' 
That 's rather familiar , perhaps , '' said Martin , suddenly remembering that he was proud when they had last met , `` but I call him my dear Tom Pinch , because he likes it , and it pleases him . '' 
`` It 's as well to be kind whenever one can ; and , as I said before , he really is an excellent fellow . 
` My dear Tom Pinch , -- I address this under cover to Mrs. Lupin , at the Blue Dragon , and have begged her in a short note to deliver it to you without saying anything about it elsewhere ; and to do the same with all future letters she may receive from me . 
I do n't know that it will be , by the bye , '' said Martin , breaking off , `` for he 's slow of comprehension , poor fellow ; but he 'll find it out in time . 
And always believe me , my dear Tom Pinch , faithfully your friend , Martin Chuzzlewit . 
`` Oh , Tom Pinch , Tom Pinch ! '' 
`` Is Tom there , with the cake and wine ? '' 
But he quickly regained his composure , and was in the very act of changing the subject , when a hasty step was heard without , and Tom Pinch , in a state of great excitement , came darting into the room . 
On seeing a stranger there , apparently engaged with Mr. Pecksniff in private conversation , Tom was very much abashed , though he still looked as if he had something of great importance to communicate , which would be a sufficient apology for his intrusion . 
`` I beg your pardon , sir , '' replied Tom , `` for not knocking at the door . '' 
said Tom . 
`` It should be very pressing to justify this strange behaviour , Mr. Pinch , '' returned his master . 
`` I am very sorry , sir , I am sure , '' said Tom , standing , cap in hand , before his patron in the passage : `` and I know it must have a very rude appearance -- '' `` It has a very rude appearance , Mr. Pinch . '' 
No , they said , they would n't do that ; but they thanked me for the music they had heard -- in fact , '' observed Tom , blushing -- `` they said , ` Delicious music ! ' 
I -- I -- beg your pardon , sir ; '' he was all in a tremble , and dropped his hat for the second time ; `` but I -- I 'm rather flurried , and I fear I 've wandered from the point . '' 
`` Yes , sir , '' returned Tom , `` certainly . 
I said I had that honour , and I took the liberty , sir , '' added Tom , raising his eyes to his benefactor 's face , `` of saying , as I always will and must , with your permission , that I was under great obligations to you , and never could express my sense of them sufficiently . '' 
`` Thank you , sir , '' cried Tom . 
I left 'em at the turnstile to run forward and tell you they were coming , and they 'll be here , sir , in -- in less than a minute 's time , I should say , '' added Tom , fetching his breath with difficulty . 
cried Tom , `` I meant to mention that at first I thought I had . 
Tom 's teeth chattered in his head , and he positively staggered with amazement , at witnessing the extraordinary effect produced on Mr. Pecksniff by these simple words . 
The dread of losing the old man 's favour almost as soon as they were reconciled , through the mere fact of having Jonas in the house ; the impossibility of dismissing Jonas , or shutting him up , or tying him hand and foot and putting him in the coal-cellar , without offending him beyond recall ; the horrible discordance prevailing in the establishment , and the impossibility of reducing it to decent harmony , with Charity in loud hysterics , Mercy in the utmost disorder , Jonas in the parlour , and Martin Chuzzlewit and his young charge upon the very door-steps ; the total hopelessness of being able to disguise or feasibly explain this state of rampant confusion ; the sudden accumulation over his devoted head of every complicated perplexity and entanglement -- for his extrication from which he had trusted to time , good fortune , chance , and his own plotting -- so filled the entrapped architect with dismay , that if Tom could have been a Gorgon staring at Mr. Pecksniff , and Mr. Pecksniff could have been a Gorgon staring at Tom , they could not have horrified each other half so much as in their own bewildered persons . 
cried Tom , `` what have I done ? 
Now Mark , '' said Martin , in his old way , just as he might have spoken to Tom Pinch , `` I have thought of a means of making this up to you , -- more than making it up to you , I hope , -- and very materially elevating your prospects in life . '' 
`` Thomas Pinch '' -- he could n't make up his mind , in his great agitation , whether to call Tom his dear friend or a villain , so he shook his fist at him pro tem . 
cried Tom , departing , in a state of much amazement , on his errand . 
`` He did arrive before you , my dear sir , '' retorted Pecksniff , raising his voice for the edification of Tom upon the stairs , `` and was about , I dare say , to tell me of your coming , when I begged him first to knock at my daughters ' chamber , and inquire after Charity , my dear child , who is not so well as I could wish . 
`` Thank you , sir , '' said Tom . 
cried his master , pleasantly , `` God bless you ! '' 
Tom reported that the young ladies would appear directly , and that the best refreshments which the house afforded were even then in preparation , under their joint superintendence . 
While he was speaking , the old man looked at him intently , though with less harshness than was common to him ; nor did the mutual embarrassment of Tom and the young lady , to whatever cause he attributed it , seem to escape his observation . 
`` Pecksniff , '' he said after a pause , rising and taking him aside towards the window , `` I was much shocked on hearing of my brother 's death . 
Finding him in this gentle mood , Mr. Pecksniff began to see another way out of his difficulties , besides the casting overboard of Jonas . 
Tom was in some need of this injunction , for he felt so nervous , and trembled to such a degree , that he found it difficult to hold the lantern . 
How much more difficult when , at the old man 's bidding , she drew her hand through his -- Tom Pinch 's -- arm ! 
Tom answered , with even more than his usual enthusiasm , that he was under obligations to Mr. Pecksniff which the devotion of a lifetime would but imperfectly repay . 
faltered Tom . 
`` Oh dear , yes , '' cried Tom , greatly relieved , for his mind was running upon Martin . 
Tom felt that this was a rebuff for him , and could not but understand it as a left-handed hit at his employer . 
So he was silent . 
The old man , disgusted by what in his suspicious nature he considered a shameless and fulsome puff of Mr. Pecksniff , which was a part of Tom 's hired service and in which he was determined to persevere , set him down at once for a deceitful , servile , miserable fawner . 
So he was silent . 
And though they were all sufficiently uncomfortable , it is fair to say that Martin was perhaps the most so ; for he had felt kindly towards Tom at first , and had been interested by his seeming simplicity . 
`` You 're like the rest , '' he thought , glancing at the face of the unconscious Tom . 
First among the meetings to which Tom had long looked forward with a beating heart , it was memorable for nothing but embarrassment and confusion . 
They parted at the Dragon door ; and sighing as he extinguished the candle in the lantern , Tom turned back again over the gloomy fields . 
As he approached the first stile , which was in a lonely part , made very dark by a plantation of young firs , a man slipped past him and went on before . 
Tom was rather startled , and for a moment stood still ; but he stepped forward again immediately , and went close up to him . 
It was Jonas ; swinging his legs to and fro , sucking the head of a stick , and looking with a sneer at Tom . 
cried Tom , `` who would have thought of its being you ! 
`` You are not very civil , I think , '' remarked Tom . 
`` One who has as good a right to common consideration as another , '' said Tom , mildly . 
`` If you proceed in this way , '' returned Tom , reddening , `` you will oblige me to talk about my wrongs . 
`` My name is Pinch , '' observed Tom . 
`` Never mind what you do in the city , '' said Tom . 
`` Just this , Mister Pinch , '' retorted Jonas , thrusting his face so close to Tom 's that Tom was obliged to retreat a step , `` I advise you to keep your own counsel , and to avoid tittle-tattle , and not to cut in where you 're not wanted . 
cried Tom , `` I see that you had better get off the stile , and let me pursue my way home . 
`` I am not afraid of many things , I hope , '' said Tom ; `` and certainly not of anything that you will do . 
cried Tom , indignantly . 
`` I know no vagabond member of your family , '' cried Tom , stoutly . 
`` I do n't , '' said Tom . 
Any comparison between you and him '' -- Tom snapped his fingers at him , for he was rising fast in wrath -- `` is immeasurably to your disadvantage . '' 
`` I do n't mean to say another word , or stay here another instant , '' replied Tom . 
He flourished his stick over Tom 's head ; but in a moment , it was spinning harmlessly in the air , and Jonas himself lay sprawling in the ditch . 
In the momentary struggle for the stick , Tom had brought it into violent contact with his opponent 's forehead ; and the blood welled out profusely from a deep cut on the temple . 
Tom was first apprised of this by seeing that he pressed his handkerchief to the wounded part , and staggered as he rose : being stunned . 
said Tom . 
He made him no answer : not appearing at first to understand him , or even to know that he was hurt , though he several times took his handkerchief from the cut to look vacantly at the blood upon it . 
After one of these examinations , he looked at Tom , and then there was an expression in his features , which showed that he understood what had taken place , and would remember it . 
Jonas kept a little in advance , and Tom Pinch sadly followed : thinking of the grief which the knowledge of this quarrel must occasion his excellent benefactor . 
When Jonas knocked at the door , Tom 's heart beat high ; higher when Miss Mercy answered it , and , seeing her wounded lover , shrieked aloud ; higher when he followed them into the family parlour ; higher than at any other time when Jonas spoke . 
I did n't know the road ; the night 's very dark ; and just as I came up with Mr. Pinch '' -- he turned his face towards Tom , but not his eyes -- `` I ran against a tree . 
Though Mercy laved the wound herself ; and Mr. Pecksniff held the patient 's head between his two hands , as if without that assistance it must inevitably come in half ; and Tom Pinch , in his guilty agitation , shook a bottle of Dutch Drops until they were nothing but English Froth , and in his other hand sustained a formidable carving-knife , really intended to reduce the swelling , but apparently designed for the ruthless infliction of another wound as soon as that was dressed ; Charity rendered not the least assistance , nor uttered a word . 
It was the first time she had ever spoken kindly to Tom , in all the many years they had passed together . 
He was stupefied with amazement . 
`` I was very much provoked , '' said Tom . 
We had a struggle for the path , '' said Tom . 
she repeated , clenching her hand and stamping her foot , to Tom 's great wonder . 
She turned her flushed face upon Tom to confirm her words by its kindling expression ; and seizing his right hand , pressed it to her breast , and kissed it . 
And there was nothing personal in this to render it at all embarrassing , for even Tom , whose power of observation was by no means remarkable , knew from the energy with which she did it that she would have fondled any hand , no matter how bedaubed or dyed , that had broken the head of Jonas Chuzzlewit . 
Tom went into his room , and went to bed , full of uncomfortable thoughts . 
That there should be any such tremendous division in the family as he knew must have taken place to convert Charity Pecksniff into his friend , for any reason , but , above all , for that which was clearly the real one ; that Jonas , who had assailed him with such exceeding coarseness , should have been sufficiently magnanimous to keep the secret of their quarrel ; and that any train of circumstances should have led to the commission of an assault and battery by Thomas Pinch upon any man calling himself the friend of Seth Pecksniff ; were matters of such deep and painful cogitation , that he could not close his eyes . 
His own violence , in particular , so preyed upon the generous mind of Tom , that coupling it with the many former occasions on which he had given Mr. Pecksniff pain and anxiety -LRB- occasions of which that gentleman often reminded him -RRB- , he really began to regard himself as destined by a mysterious fate to be the evil genius and bad angel of his patron . 
It must be acknowledged that , asleep or awake , Tom 's position in reference to this young lady was full of uneasiness . 
The more he saw of her , the more he admired her beauty , her intelligence , the amiable qualities that even won on the divided house of Pecksniff , and in a few days restored at all events the semblance of harmony and kindness between the angry sisters . 
When she spoke , Tom held his breath , so eagerly he listened ; when she sang , he sat like one entranced . 
She touched his organ , and from that bright epoch even it , the old companion of his happiest hours , incapable as he had thought of elevation , began a new and deified existence . 
God 's love upon thy patience , Tom ! 
And if a friendly glance -- ay , even though it were as guileless as thine own , Dear Tom -- could but have pierced the twilight of that evening , when , in a voice well tempered to the time , sad , sweet , and low , yet hopeful , she first sang to the altered instrument , and wondered at the change ; and thou , sitting apart at the open window , keptst a glad silence and a swelling heart -- must not that glance have read perforce the dawning of a story , Tom , that it were well for thee had never been begun ! 
Tom Pinch 's situation was not made the less dangerous or difficult , by the fact of no one word passing between them in reference to Martin . 
Honourably mindful of his promise , Tom gave her opportunities of all kinds . 
Early and late he was in the church ; in her favourite walks ; in the village , in the garden , in the meadows ; and in any or all of these places he might have spoken freely . 
But no : at all such times she carefully avoided him , or never came in his way unaccompanied . 
It could not be that she disliked or distrusted him , for by a thousand little delicate means , too slight for any notice but his own , she singled him out when others were present , and showed herself the very soul of kindness . 
Tom 's cheek grew red with self-reproach , as he dismissed the thought . 
He glanced up at her from the ground , almost as darkly as he had looked at Tom Pinch ; but held his peace . 
I have no connection with the company , farther than giving them , for a certain fee and reward , my poor opinion as a medical man , precisely as I may give it any day to Jack Noakes or Tom Styles . 
`` Tom Gag , upon my soul ! '' 
Tom had retired , and they were alone . 
Mr. Pecksniff had just gone out of the room , and Tom had just come into it . 
repeated Tom . 
asked Tom in great surprise . 
said Tom . 
And he said it in perfect good faith . 
He believed it from the bottom of his heart . 
Tom thanked her for her confidence , and for her friendship , but there was a mystery in the former , which perfectly bewildered him . 
In his extravagant devotion to the family , he had felt the loss of Merry more than any one but those who knew that for all the slights he underwent he thought his own demerits were to blame , could possibly have understood . 
She had grown up , as it were under Tom 's eye . 
The sisters were a part of Pecksniff , and a part of Tom ; items in Pecksniff 's goodness , and in Tom 's service . 
He could n't bear it : not two hours ' sleep had Tom that night , through dwelling in his bed upon these dreadful changes . 
When morning dawned , he thought he must have dreamed this piece of ambiguity ; but no , on going down stairs he found them packing trunks and cording boxes , and making other preparations for Miss Charity 's departure , which lasted all day long . 
In good time for the evening-coach , Miss Charity deposited her housekeeping keys with much ceremony upon the parlour table ; took a gracious leave of all the house ; and quitted her paternal roof -- a blessing , for which the Pecksniffian servant was observed by some profane persons to be particularly active in the thanksgiving at church next Sunday . 
With the church so often mentioned heretofore , in which Tom Pinch played the organ for nothing . 
As he was lingering among the tombstones , endeavouring to extract an available sentiment or two from the epitaphs -- for he never lost an opportunity of making up a few moral crackers , to be let off as occasion served -- Tom Pinch began to practise . 
Tom could run down to the church and do so whenever he had time to spare ; for it was a simple little organ , provided with wind by the action of the musician 's feet ; and he was independent , even of a bellows-blower . 
Though if Tom had wanted one at any time , there was not a man or boy in all the village , and away to the turnpike -LRB- tollman included -RRB- , but would have blown away for him till he was black in the face . 
He considered it a vagabond kind of trifling , in general , just suited to Tom 's capacity . 
But in regard to Tom 's performance upon this same organ , he was remarkably lenient , singularly amiable ; for when Tom played it on Sundays , Mr. Pecksniff in his unbounded sympathy felt as if he played it himself , and were a benefactor to the congregation . 
So whenever it was impossible to devise any other means of taking the value of Tom 's wages out of him , Mr. Pecksniff gave him leave to cultivate this instrument . 
For which mark of his consideration , Tom was very grateful . 
He approached the church , and looking through the diamond lattice of a window near the porch , saw Tom , with the curtains in the loft drawn back , playing away with great expression and tenderness . 
He entered very softly ; in part because it was a church ; in part because his tread was always soft ; in part because Tom played a solemn tune ; in part because he thought he would surprise him when he stopped . 
Unbolting the door of the high pew of state , he glided in and shut it after him ; then sitting in his usual place , and stretching out his legs upon the hassocks , he composed himself to listen to the music . 
It is an unaccountable circumstance that he should have felt drowsy there , where the force of association might surely have been enough to keep him wide awake ; but he did . 
He had not been in the snug little corner five minutes before he began to nod . 
He had not recovered himself one minute before he began to nod again . 
In the very act of opening his eyes indolently , he nodded again . 
In the very act of shutting them , he nodded again . 
So he fell out of one nod into another until at last he ceased to nod at all , and was as fast as the church itself . 
He had a consciousness of the organ , long after he fell asleep , though as to its being an organ he had no more idea of that , than he had of its being a Bull . 
After a while he began to have at intervals the same dreamy impression of voices ; and awakening to an indolent curiosity upon the subject , opened his eyes . 
He was so indolent , that after glancing at the hassocks and the pew , he was already half-way off to sleep again , when it occurred to him that there really were voices in the church : low voices , talking earnestly hard by : while the echoes seemed to mutter responses . 
He roused himself , and listened . 
Before he had listened half a dozen seconds , he became as broad awake as ever he had been in all his life . 
With eyes , and ears , and mouth , wide open , he moved himself a very little with the utmost caution , and gathering the curtain in his hand , peeped out . 
Tom Pinch and Mary . 
He had recognised their voices , and already knew the topic they discussed . 
`` No , '' cried Tom . 
`` Oh , but you must n't let it be , '' said Tom . 
I have often wished to say this to you , '' Tom continued with an embarrassment that became him very well , `` but you have never given me an opportunity . '' 
`` No , '' Tom stammered , `` I -- I am not aware that I ever supposed that . 
I feel the delicacy of your situation in having to confide in me at all , '' said Tom , `` but I would risk my life to save you from one day 's uneasiness : indeed I would ! '' 
Poor Tom ! 
`` I have dreaded sometimes , '' Tom continued , `` that I might have displeased you by -- by having the boldness to try and anticipate your wishes now and then . 
`` It was very foolish : very presumptuous and ridiculous : to think so , '' Tom pursued : `` but I feared you might suppose it possible that I -- I -- should admire you too much for my own peace ; and so denied yourself the slight assistance you would otherwise have accepted from me . 
If such an idea has ever presented itself to you , '' faltered Tom , `` pray dismiss it . 
If friars bear such hearts as thine , Tom , let friars multiply ; though they have no such rule in all their stern arithmetic . 
said Mary , giving him her hand ; `` I can not tell you how your kindness moves me . 
`` I am as little like an angel , I am afraid , '' replied Tom , shaking his head , `` as any stone cherubim among the gravestones ; and I do n't think there are many real angels of that pattern . 
cried Tom . 
rejoined Tom , with cheerful confidence . 
Mary seemed to have expressed some dissent in the meanwhile , for Tom went on to say , with honest energy : `` Well , I do n't know how it is , but it always happens , whenever I express myself in this way , to anybody almost , that I find they wo n't do justice to Pecksniff . 
There was Mark Tapley , too , quite in another station of life , '' said Tom : `` the mockery he used to make of Pecksniff when he was at the Dragon was shocking . 
Tom triumphed very much in this discovery , and rubbed his hands with great satisfaction . 
cried Tom . 
But , '' he added , with a rapid change in his tone , `` what is the matter ? 
She was sitting on a bench beside the door with her hands before her face ; and Tom was bending over her . 
cried Tom . 
Tom gazed at her stedfastly , and seemed to say , `` What else ? '' 
But he said not a word . 
muttered Tom , staggering back . 
Tom sat down on a seat , and clasped his hands . 
exclaimed Tom . 
`` I say he is a scoundrel , '' answered Tom . 
`` I say , '' cried Tom , in great excitement , `` he is a scoundrel and a villain . 
Any sight of distress was sure to move the tenderness of Tom , but this especially . 
Tears and sobs from her , were arrows in his heart . 
He tried to comfort her ; sat down beside her ; expended all his store of homely eloquence ; and spoke in words of praise and hope of Martin . 
Not the wealth of the rich Indies would have tempted Tom to shirk one mention of her lover 's name . 
When she was more composed , she impressed upon Tom that this man she had described , was Pecksniff in his real colours ; and word by word and phrase by phrase , as well as she remembered it , related what had passed between them in the wood : which was no doubt a source of high gratification to that gentleman himself , who in his desire to see and his dread of being seen , was constantly diving down into the state pew , and coming up again like the intelligent householder in Punch 's Show , who avoids being knocked on the head with a cudgel . 
When she had concluded her account , and had besought Tom to be very distant and unconscious in his manner towards her after this explanation , and had thanked him very much , they parted on the alarm of footsteps in the burial-ground ; and Tom was left alone in the church again . 
And now the full agitation and misery of the disclosure , came rushing upon Tom indeed . 
The star of his whole life from boyhood , had become , in a moment , putrid vapour . 
It was not that Pecksniff : Tom 's Pecksniff : had ceased to exist , but that he never had existed . 
In his death , Tom would have had the comfort of remembering what he used to be , but in this discovery , he had the anguish of recollecting what he never was . 
For as Tom 's blindness in this matter had been total and not partial , so was his restored sight . 
His Pecksniff could never have worked the wickedness of which he had just now heard , but any other Pecksniff could ; and the Pecksniff who could do that , could do anything , and no doubt had been doing anything and everything except the right thing , all through his career . 
From the lofty height on which poor Tom had placed his idol it was tumbled down headlong , and Not all the king 's horses nor all the king 's men Could have set Mr. Pecksniff up again . 
But it was not he who suffered ; it was Tom . 
His compass was broken , his chart destroyed , his chronometer had stopped , his masts were gone by the board ; his anchor was adrift , ten thousand leagues away . 
Mr. Pecksniff watched him with a lively interest , for he divined the purpose of Tom 's ruminations , and was curious to see how he conducted himself . 
For some time , Tom wandered up and down the aisle like a man demented , stopping occasionally to lean against a pew and think it over ; then he stood staring at a blank old monument bordered tastefully with skulls and cross-bones , as if it were the finest work of Art he had ever seen , although at other times he held it in unspeakable contempt ; then he sat down ; and then walked to and fro again ; and then went wandering up into the organ-loft , and touched the keys . 
But their minstrelsy was changed , their music gone ; and sounding one long melancholy chord , Tom drooped his head upon his hands , and gave it up as hopeless . 
`` I would n't have cared , '' said Tom Pinch , rising from his stool , and looking down into the church as if he had been the Clergyman , `` I would n't have cared for anything he might have done to Me , for I have tried his patience often , and have lived upon his sufferance , and have never been the help to him that others could have been . 
I would n't have minded , Pecksniff , '' Tom continued , little thinking who heard him , `` if you had done Me any wrong ; I could have found plenty of excuses for that ; and though you might have hurt me , could have still gone on respecting you . 
Mr. Pecksniff sat upon the hassock pulling up his shirt-collar , while Tom , touched to the quick , delivered this apostrophe . 
After a pause he heard Tom coming down the stairs , jingling the church keys ; and bringing his eye to the top of the pew again , saw him go slowly out , and lock the door . 
Mr. Pecksniff durst not issue from his place of concealment ; for through the windows of the church , he saw Tom passing on among the graves , and sometimes stopping at a stone , and leaning there , as if he were a mourner who had lost a friend . 
Even when he had left the churchyard , Mr. Pecksniff still remained shut up : not being at all secure but that in his restless state of mind Tom might come wandering back . 
At length he issued forth , and walked with a pleasant countenance into the vestry ; where he knew there was a window near the ground , by which he could release himself by merely stepping out . 
He was in a curious frame of mind , Mr. Pecksniff : being in no hurry to go , but rather inclining to a dilatory trifling with the time , which prompted him to open the vestry cupboard , and look at himself in the parson 's little glass that hung within the door . 
Tom came . 
Constrained and altered in his manner , downcast and dejected , visibly confused ; not liking to look Pecksniff in the face . 
and addressed himself to Tom in these terms : `` Mr. Pinch , I have left the vestry-window unfastened . 
cried Tom . 
`` You understand me Mr. Pinch , I think '' returned his patron . 
I grieve to say that sleeping in the church after a fatiguing ramble , I overheard just now some fragments '' he emphasised that word `` of a dialogue between two parties ; and one of them locking the church when he went out , I was obliged to leave it myself by the vestry-window . 
No physiognomist that ever dwelt on earth could have construed Tom 's face when he heard these words . 
He bowed , and without saying one word , good or bad , withdrew . 
Mr. Pecksniff 's duty to society could not be paid till Tom came back . 
The interval which preceded the return of that young man , he occupied in a close conference with his friend ; so that when Tom did arrive , he found the two quite ready to receive him . 
When Tom came back , he found old Martin sitting by the window , and Mr. Pecksniff in an imposing attitude at the table . 
Tom saw , at a glance , that it was his own salary for the current quarter . 
Tom placed them on the table . 
He held the bunch by the key of the organ-loft -LRB- though it was one of the smallest -RRB- and looked hard at it as he laid it down . 
It had been an old , old friend of Tom 's ; a kind companion to him , many and many a day . 
Tom did it though ; and notwithstanding that he has been described as stooping generally , he stood as upright then as man could stand . 
Tom 's was not a very bright eye , but it was a very expressive one when he looked at Mr. Pecksniff , and said : `` Thank you Sir . 
Tom glanced at the old gentleman , who nodded now and then as approving of Mr. Pecksniff 's sentences and sentiments , but interposed between them in no other way . 
Tom looked at him steadily . 
`` No Sir , '' replied Tom . 
No , Tom did not . 
He scorned to deny it . 
He saw that Mr. Pecksniff having overheard his own disgrace , cared not a jot for sinking lower yet in his contempt . 
`` Quite correct Sir , '' answered Tom . 
Something without a name ; compassion , sorrow , old tenderness , mistaken gratitude , habit : none of these , and yet all of them ; smote upon Tom 's gentle heart , at parting . 
Tom had meant to spare him one little puncturation with a lancet , which he had it in his power to administer , but he changed his mind on hearing this , and said : `` I think you left something in the church , Sir . '' 
said Tom . 
`` I found it , '' said Tom , slowly -- `` when I went to bolt the vestry-window -- in the Pew . '' 
So he had . 
Going back to the church with his mind full of having been watched , and wondering very much from what part , Tom 's attention was caught by the door of the state pew standing open . 
Looking into it he found the glass . 
And thus he knew , and by returning it gave Mr. Pecksniff the information that he knew , where the listener had been ; and that instead of overhearing fragments of the conversation , he must have rejoiced in every word of it . 
`` I am glad he 's gone , '' said Martin , drawing a long breath when Tom had left the room . 
Tom went upstairs ; cleared his shelf of books : packed them up with his music and an old fiddle in his trunk ; got out his clothes -LRB- they were not so many that they made his head ache -RRB- ; put them on the top of his books ; and went into the workroom for his case of instruments . 
There was a ragged stool there , with the horsehair all sticking out of the top like a wig : a very Beast of a stool in itself : on which he had taken up his daily seat , year after year , during the whole period of his service . 
Pupils had served their time ; seasons had come and gone ; Tom and the worn-out stool had held together through it all . 
That part of the room was traditionally called `` Tom 's Corner . '' 
It had been assigned to him at first because of its being situated in a strong draught , and a great way from the fire ; and he had occupied it ever since . 
There were portraits of him on the wall , with all his weak points monstrously portrayed . 
Diabolical sentiments , foreign to his character , were represented as issuing from his mouth in fat balloons . 
Every pupil had added something , even unto fancy portraits of his father with one eye , and of his mother with a disproportionate nose , and especially of his sister : who always being presented as extremely beautiful , made full amends to Tom for any other joke . 
Under less uncommon circumstances , it would have cut Tom to the heart to leave these things , and think that he saw them for the last time ; but it did n't now . 
But there was no Pecksniff ; there never had been a Pecksniff ; and the unreality of Pecksniff extended itself to the chamber , in which , sitting on one particular bed , the thing supposed to be that Great Abstraction had often preached morality with such effect , that Tom had felt a moisture in his eyes , while hanging breathless on the words . 
The man engaged to bear his box : Tom knew him well . 
A Dragon man : came stamping up the stairs , and made a roughish bow to Tom -LRB- to whom in common times he would have nodded with a grin -RRB- as though he were aware of what had happened , and wished him to perceive it made no difference in him . 
It was clumsily done ; he was a mere waterer of horses ; but Tom liked the man for it , and felt it more than going away . 
Tom would have helped him with the box , but he made no more of it , though it was a heavy one , than an elephant would have made of a castle : just swinging it on his back and bowling down stairs as if , being naturally a heavy sort of fellow , he could carry a box infinitely better than he could go alone . 
Tom took the carpet-bag , and went down stairs along with him . 
At the outer door stood Jane , crying with all her might ; and on the steps was Mrs. Lupin , sobbing bitterly , and putting out her hand for Tom to shake . 
`` No , '' said Tom , `` no . 
said Tom , wiping his eyes . 
`` Thank ` ee '' said Tom . 
There were several people , young and old , standing about the door , some of whom cried with Mrs. Lupin ; while others tried to keep up a stout heart as Tom did ; and others were absorbed in admiration of Mr. Pecksniff -- a man who could build a church , as one may say , by squinting at a sheet of paper ; and others were divided between that feeling , and sympathy with Tom . 
Mr. Pecksniff had appeared on the top of the steps , simultaneously with his old pupil , and while Tom was talking with Mrs. Lupin kept his hand stretched out , as though he said `` Go forth ! '' 
When Tom went forth , and had turned the corner , Mr. Pecksniff shook his head , shut his eyes , and heaving a deep sigh , likewise shut the door . 
On which , the best of Tom 's supporters said he must have done some dreadful deed , or such a man as Mr. Pecksniff never could have felt like that . 
Tom was out of hearing of their shrewd opinions , and plodded on as steadily as he could go , until he came within sight of the turnpike where the tollman 's family had cried out `` Mr. Pinch ! '' 
that frosty morning , when he went to meet young Martin . 
He had got through the village , and this tollbar was his last trial ; but when the infant toll-takers came screeching out , he had half a mind to run for it , and make a bolt across the country . 
`` I 'm going to Salisbury , '' said Tom . 
cried the tollman 's wife , looking down the road , as if she thought Tom might have been upset without observing it . 
`` I have n't got it , '' said Tom . 
`` I -- '' he could n't evade it ; he felt she would have him in the next question , if he got over this one . 
The tollman -- a crusty customer , always smoking solitary pipes in a Windsor chair , inside , set artfully between two little windows that looked up and down the road , so that when he saw anything coming up , he might hug himself on having toll to take , and when he saw it going down , might hug himself on having taken it -- the tollman was out in an instant . 
`` Yes , '' said Tom , `` left him . '' 
The tollman looked at his wife , uncertain whether to ask her if she had anything to suggest , or to order her to mind the children . 
Astonishment making him surly , he preferred the latter , and sent her into the toll-house , with a flea in her ear . 
cried the tollman , folding his arms , and spreading his legs . 
said Tom , `` so should I , yesterday . 
As things turned out , he smoked another pipe , and took his wife into his confidence . 
But this was long after Tom was abed , and Tom was now with his face towards Salisbury , doing his best to get there . 
For ten long miles he plodded on , wet through , until at last the lights appeared , and he came into the welcome precincts of the city . 
He went to the inn where he had waited for Martin , and briefly answering their enquiries after Mr. Pecksniff , ordered a bed . 
These were trifles in themselves , but they added to the strangeness of the place , and did not induce Tom to forget his new position . 
Pecksniff had gone out of the world -- had never been in it -- and it was as much as Tom could do to say his prayers without him . 
But he felt happier afterwards , and went to sleep , and dreamed about him as he Never Was . 
Early on the day next after that on which she bade adieu to the halls of her youth and the scenes of her childhood , Miss Pecksniff , arriving safely at the coach-office in London , was there received , and conducted to her peaceful home beneath the shadow of the Monument , by Mrs. Todgers . 
Miss Pecksniff signified -LRB- in confidence -RRB- that he contemplated the introduction of a princely ma ; and repeated the sentiment that she was n't blind , and was n't quite a fool , and would n't bear it . 
And now it was Martin 's turn to work , and sit beside the bed and watch , and listen through the long , long nights , to every sound in the gloomy wilderness ; and hear poor Mr. Tapley , in his wandering fancy , playing at skittles in the Dragon , making love-remonstrances to Mrs. Lupin , getting his sea-legs on aboard the Screw , travelling with old Tom Pinch on English roads , and burning stumps of trees in Eden , all at once . 
Somehow he coupled Tom Pinch with this train of reflection ; and thinking that Tom would be very likely to have struck up the same sort of acquaintance under similar circumstances , began to think in what respects two people so extremely different were like each other , and were unlike him . 
At first sight there was nothing very distressing in these meditations , but they did undoubtedly distress him for all that . 
`` Poor Tom ! '' 
`` I wish he took a little more , indeed , '' said Martin . 
We should n't like him half as well , perhaps . '' 
`` He gets put upon Sir , '' hinted Mark . 
`` Perhaps he has Tom Pinch with him , '' Martin whispered Mr. Tapley . 
what a different town Salisbury was in Tom Pinch 's eyes to be sure , when the substantial Pecksniff of his heart melted away into an idle dream ! 
He walked into the market while they were getting breakfast ready for him at the Inn : and though it was the same market as of old , crowded by the same buyers and sellers ; brisk with the same business ; noisy with the same confusion of tongues and cluttering of fowls in coops ; fair with the same display of rolls of butter , newly made , set forth in linen cloths of dazzling whiteness ; green with the same fresh show of dewy vegetables ; dainty with the same array in higglers ' baskets of small shaving-glasses , laces , braces , trouser-straps , and hardware ; savoury with the same unstinted show of delicate pigs ' feet and pies made precious by the pork that once had walked upon them : still it was strangely changed to Tom . 
For in the centre of the market-place he missed a statue he had set up there , as in all other places of his personal resort ; and it looked cold and bare without that ornament . 
The change lay no deeper than this , for Tom was far from being sage enough to know , that , having been disappointed in one man , it would have been a strictly rational and eminently wise proceeding to have revenged himself upon mankind in general , by mistrusting them one and all . 
Tom had so long been used to steep the Pecksniff of his fancy in his tea , and spread him out upon his toast , and take him as a relish with his beer , that he made but a poor breakfast on the first morning after his expulsion . 
Nor did he much improve his appetite for dinner by seriously considering his own affairs , and taking counsel thereon with his friend the organist 's assistant . 
The organist 's assistant gave it as his decided opinion that whatever Tom did , he must go to London ; for there was no place like it . 
Which may be true in the main , though hardly perhaps , in itself , a sufficient reason for Tom 's going there . 
But Tom had thought of London before , and had coupled with it thoughts of his sister , and of his old friend John Westlock , whose advice he naturally felt disposed to seek in this important crisis of his fortunes . 
To London , therefore , he resolved to go ; and he went away to the coach-office at once , to secure his place . 
The coach being already full , he was obliged to postpone his departure until the next night ; but even this circumstance had its bright side as well as its dark one , for though it threatened to reduce his poor purse with unexpected country-charges , it afforded him an opportunity of writing to Mrs. Lupin and appointing his box to be brought to the old finger-post at the old time ; which would enable him to take that treasure with him to the metropolis , and save the expense of its carriage . 
`` So , '' said Tom , comforting himself , `` it 's very nearly as broad as it 's long . '' 
And it can not be denied that , when he had made up his mind to even this extent , he felt an unaccustomed sense of freedom -- a vague and indistinct impression of holiday-making -- which was very luxurious . 
He had his moments of depression and anxiety , and they were , with good reason , pretty numerous ; but still , it was wonderfully pleasant to reflect that he was his own master , and could plan and scheme for himself . 
It was startling , thrilling , vast , difficult to understand ; it was a stupendous truth , teeming with responsibility and self-distrust ; but , in spite of all his cares , it gave a curious relish to the viands at the Inn , and interposed a dreamy haze between him and his prospects , in which they sometimes showed to magical advantage . 
In this unsettled state of mind , Tom went once more to bed in the low four-poster , to the same immoveable surprise of the effigies of the former landlord and the fat ox ; and in this condition , passed the whole of the succeeding day . 
When the coach came round at last , with `` London '' blazoned in letters of gold upon the boot , it gave Tom such a turn , that he was half disposed to run away . 
But he did n't do it ; for he took his seat upon the box instead , and looking down upon the four grays , felt as if he were another gray himself , or , at all events , a part of the turn-out ; and was quite confused by the novelty and splendour of his situation . 
And really it might have confused a less modest man than Tom to find himself sitting next that coachman ; for of all the swells that ever flourished a whip , professionally , he might have been elected emperor . 
He did n't handle his gloves like another man , but put them on -- even when he was standing on the pavement , quite detached from the coach -- as if the four grays were , somehow or other , at the ends of the fingers . 
These were all foreshadowings of London , Tom thought , as he sat upon the box , and looked about him . 
And even with the weight upon his mind which arose out of the immensity and uncertainty of London , Tom could not resist the captivating sense of rapid motion through the pleasant air . 
The four grays skimmed along , as if they liked it quite as well as Tom did ; the bugle was in as high spirits as the grays ; the coachman chimed in sometimes with his voice ; the wheels hummed cheerfully in unison ; the brass-work on the harness was an orchestra of little bells ; and thus , as they went clinking , jingling , rattling , smoothly on , the whole concern , from the buckles of the leaders ' coupling-reins , to the handle of the hind boot , was one great instrument of music . 
Did the stage-coach pull up beside her , shaving her very wheel , and even while the guard helped her man up with the trunk , did he send the glad echoes of his bugle careering down the chimneys of the distant Pecksniff , as if the coach expressed its exultation in the rescue of Tom Pinch ? 
said Tom , bending down to shake hands with her . 
It 's a pleasure to you , I know , '' said Tom , squeezing her hand heartily . 
`` Say you saw me , '' said Tom , `` and that I was very bold and cheerful , and not a bit down-hearted ; and that I entreated her to be the same , for all is certain to come right at last . 
cried Tom , with an involuntary opening of his eyes . 
cried Tom . 
She was a quarter of a mile off , before Tom collected himself ; and then he was waving his hand lustily ; and so was she . 
`` And that 's the last of the old finger-post , '' thought Tom , straining his eyes , `` where I have so often stood , to see this very coach go by , and where I have parted with so many companions ! 
It made Tom melancholy to picture himself walking up the lane and back to Pecksniff 's as of old ; and being melancholy , he looked down-wards at the basket on his knee , which he had for the moment forgotten . 
`` She is the kindest and most considerate creature in the world , '' thought Tom . 
Here he caught the coachman 's eye . 
`` I quite agree with you , '' returned Tom . 
`` Than many a young one , '' Tom assented . 
This was a matter of taste , which Tom did not feel himself called upon to discuss . 
said Tom , smiling . 
As the coachman only laughed , and as Tom was curious himself , he unpacked it , and put the articles , one by one , upon the footboard . 
There was a letter besides , which Tom put in his pocket . 
The coachman was so earnest in his approval of Mrs. Lupin 's provident habits , and congratulated Tom so warmly on his good fortune , that Tom felt it necessary , for the lady 's sake , to explain that the basket was a strictly Platonic basket , and had merely been presented to him in the way of friendship . 
When he had made the statement with perfect gravity ; for he felt it incumbent on him to disabuse the mind of this lax rover of any incorrect impressions on the subject ; he signified that he would be happy to share the gifts with him , and proposed that they should attack the basket in a spirit of good fellowship at any time in the course of the night which the coachman 's experience and knowledge of the road might suggest , as being best adapted to the purpose . 
From this time they chatted so pleasantly together , that although Tom knew infinitely more of unicorns than horses , the coachman informed his friend the guard , at the end of the next stage , `` that rum as the boxseat looked , he was as good a one to go , in point of conversation , as ever he 'd wish to sit by . '' 
Yoho , down countless turnings , and through countless mazy ways , until an old Inn-yard is gained , and Tom Pinch , getting down , quite stunned and giddy , is in London ! 
said the driver , as he received his fee of Tom . 
`` Upon my word , '' said Tom , `` I should not have minded very much , if we had been five hours after it ; for at this early hour I do n't know where to go , or what do with myself . '' 
said Tom . 
His mind was so clearly running on the assumption of Tom 's having come to town to see an extensive circle of anxious relations and friends , that it would have been pretty hard work to undeceive him . 
Tom did not try . 
He cheerfully evaded the subject , and going into the Inn fell fast asleep before a fire in one of the public rooms opening from the yard . 
When he awoke , the people in the house were all astir , so he washed and dressed himself ; to his great refreshment after the journey ; and , it being by that time eight o'clock , went forth at once to see his old friend John . 
John Westlock lived in Furnival 's Inn , High Holborn , which was within a quarter of an hour 's walk of Tom 's starting point , but seemed a long way off , by reason of his going two or three miles out of the straight road to make a short cut . 
When at last he arrived outside John 's door , two stories up , he stood faltering with his hand upon the knocker , and trembled from head to foot . 
For he was rendered very nervous by the thought of having to relate what had fallen out between himself and Pecksniff ; and he had a misgiving that John would exult fearfully in the disclosure . 
`` But it must be made , '' thought Tom , `` sooner or later ; and I had better get it over . '' 
`` I am afraid that 's not a London knock , '' thought Tom . 
It is quite certain that nobody came , and that Tom stood looking at the knocker : wondering whereabouts in the neighbourhood a certain gentleman resided , who was roaring out to somebody `` Come in ! '' 
with all his might . 
thought Tom at last . 
To be sure he could , by turning the handle : and to be sure when he did turn it , the same voice came rushing out , crying `` Why do n't you come in ? 
Tom stepped from the little passage into the room from which these sounds proceeded , and had barely caught a glimpse of a gentleman in a dressing-gown and slippers -LRB- with his boots beside him ready to put on -RRB- , sitting at his breakfast with a newspaper in his hand , when the said gentleman , at the imminent hazard of oversetting his tea table , made a plunge at Tom , and hugged him . 
`` Why , Tom my boy ! '' 
`` Tom ! '' 
said Tom Pinch , shaking both his hands , and trembling more than ever . 
Here , sit down Tom , and be a reasonable creature . 
`` And I am delighted to see you , '' said Tom . 
If I had known you had been coming , Tom , I would have had something for breakfast . 
You must make out as well as you can , Tom , and we 'll recompense ourselves at dinner time . 
Do begin at something or other , Tom . 
Try it , Tom ! 
While he delivered himself of these words in a state of great commotion , John was constantly running backwards and forwards to and from the closet , bringing out all sorts of things in pots , scooping extraordinary quantities of tea out of the caddy , dropping French rolls into his boots , pouring hot water over the butter , and making a variety of similar mistakes without disconcerting himself in the least . 
And now let us have the news Tom . 
`` I do n't know how he is , '' was Tom 's grave answer . 
`` I do n't know how he is , '' said Thomas Pinch ; `` and saving that I wish him no ill , I do n't care . 
I have left him , John . 
Tom had no need to direct that appealing look towards his friend , in mild and gentle deprecation of his answering with a laugh . 
`` It was all a dream of mine , '' said Tom , `` and it is over . 
`` I swear to you , Tom , '' returned his friend , with great earnestness of manner , after remaining silent for a few moments , `` that when I see , as I do now , how deeply you feel this , I do n't know whether to be glad or sorry , that you have made the discovery at last . 
`` My dear friend , '' said Tom , extending his hand , `` it is very generous and gallant in you to receive me and my disclosure in this spirit ; it makes me blush to think that I should have felt a moment 's uneasiness as I came along . 
You ca n't think what a weight is lifted off my mind , '' said Tom , taking up his knife and fork again , and looking very cheerful . 
The host , thus reminded of his duties , instantly betook himself to piling up all kinds of irreconcilable and contradictory viands in Tom 's plate , and a very capital breakfast Tom made , and very much the better for it , Tom felt . 
`` That 's all right , '' said John , after contemplating his visitor 's proceedings , with infinite satisfaction . 
`` It 's at the Inn , '' said Tom . 
You intended , in coming here , to ask my advice , did you not Tom ? '' 
`` Yes , '' rejoined Tom , smiling , `` if it were good advice , which , being yours , I have no doubt it will be . '' 
Then do n't be an obstinate old humbug in the outset , Tom , or I shall shut up shop and dispense none of that invaluable commodity . 
I wish I had an organ for you , Tom ! '' 
`` So do the gentlemen down stairs , and the gentlemen overhead , I have no doubt , '' was Tom 's reply . 
In the first place , you will wish to see your sister this morning , '' pursued his friend , `` and of course you will like to go there alone . 
Put that in your pocket , Tom . 
`` Really , '' said Tom , `` quartering one 's self upon a friend in this way -- '' `` Why , there are two keys , '' interposed John Westlock . 
What a ridiculous fellow you are , Tom ! 
`` Oh dear no , '' said Tom . 
Have a glass of cherry brandy , Tom ? '' 
`` Bless your soul , Tom , nothing but a few little bachelor contrivances ! 
`` By all means , '' cried Tom . 
Accordingly , John Westlock took the French rolls out of his boots , and put his boots on , and dressed himself : giving Tom the paper to read in the meanwhile . 
When he returned , equipped for walking , he found Tom in a brown study , with the paper in his hand . 
`` Dreaming , Tom ? '' 
It really seems , '' said Tom , relinquishing the paper , with a thoughtful sigh , `` as if people had the same gratification in printing their complaints as in making them known byword of mouth ; as if they found it a comfort and consolation to proclaim ` I want such and such a thing , and I ca n't get it , and I do n't expect I ever shall ! 
So many years had passed since Tom was last in London , and he had known so little of it then , that his interest in all he saw was very great . 
He was particularly anxious , among other notorious localities , to have those streets pointed out to him which were appropriated to the slaughter of countrymen ; and was quite disappointed to find , after half-an-hour 's walking , that he had ` nt had his pocket picked . 
Arriving before the great bell-handle , Tom gave it a gentle pull . 
said Tom . 
At the same time he looked at Tom from head to foot , as if he would have said , ` You are a nice man , you are ; where did you come from ! ' 
`` It 's the same young lady , '' said Tom . 
said Tom . 
He had quite a delicacy in offering the suggestion , for the possibility of such a step did not appear to present itself to the porter 's mind at all . 
said Tom , hurrying towards him . 
As much as to say to Tom : ` But if you think she has anything to do with the proprietorship of this place , you had better abandon that idea . ' 
`` I wish to see her if you please , '' said Tom . 
The footman being a lively young man , happened to have his attention caught at that moment by the flight of a pigeon , in which he took so warm an interest , that his gaze was rivetted on the bird until it was quite out of sight . 
He then invited Tom to come in , and showed him into a parlour . 
`` Say her brother , if you please , '' said Tom . 
`` Brother , '' repeated Tom , slightly raising his voice . 
The young man 's interest in Tom 's observations had ceased long before this time , but he kindly waited until now ; when shutting the door , he withdrew . 
said Tom . 
His cogitations were interrupted by the sound of voices in the adjoining room . 
It was in one of these gusts , as it appeared to Tom , that the footman announced him ; for an abrupt and unnatural calm took place , and then a dead silence . 
He was standing before the window , wondering what domestic quarrel might have caused these sounds , and hoping Ruth had nothing to do with it , when the door opened , and his sister ran into his arms . 
said Tom , looking at her with great pride , when they had tenderly embraced each other , `` how altered you are , Ruth ! 
You are so improved , '' said Tom , with inexpressible delight : `` you are so womanly ; you are so -- positively , you know , you are so handsome ! '' 
`` If you think so , Tom -- '' `` Oh , but everybody must think so , you know , '' said Tom , gently smoothing down her hair . 
said Tom , look at her more intently , `` how flushed you are ! 
`` No , I have not , Tom . '' 
Tom 's blood was rising ; mind that . 
Tom could bear a good deal himself , but he was proud of her , and pride is a sensitive thing . 
He began to think , `` there are more Pecksniff 's than one , perhaps , '' and by all the pins and needles that run up and down in angry veins , Tom was in a most unusual tingle all at once . 
`` We will talk about it , Tom , '' said Ruth , giving him another kiss to pacify him . 
replied Tom . 
Tom was stopped in these exclamations by the footman , who brought a message from his master , importing that he wished to speak with him before he went , and with Miss Pinch also . 
`` Show the way , '' said Tom . 
`` I 'll wait upon him at once . '' 
`` My brother , sir , '' said Ruth Pinch , timidly presenting Tom . 
cried the gentleman , surveying Tom attentively . 
`` Miss Pinch is always talking about her brother , when she ought to be engaged upon my education , '' sobbed the pupil . 
`` Sit down , if you please , '' addressing Tom . 
Tom sat down , looking from one face to another , in mute surprise . 
`` Remain here , if you please , Miss Pinch , '' pursued the gentleman , looking slightly over his shoulder . 
Tom interrupted him here , by rising to place a chair for his sister . 
Having done which , he sat down again . 
asked Tom . 
You , as her brother , may be disposed to deny it -- '' `` I beg your pardon , sir , '' said Tom . 
`` Most despicable , '' cried Tom . 
cried Tom , rising from his seat ; for he was now unable to contain himself any longer ; `` do n't allow such considerations as those to influence you , pray . 
`` As little doubt , madam , '' said Tom , `` as that the young lady yonder is the child of your teaching , and not my sister 's . 
cried Tom , after regarding him in silence for some little time . 
said Tom ; `` the story of a common mind . 
`` I trust she is , '' said Tom , forestalling the reply . 
I am not loud or turbulent , '' said Tom , which was quite true , `` though I can scarcely say as much for you , in your manner of addressing yourself to me . 
`` When you tell me , '' resumed Tom , who was not the less indignant for keeping himself quiet , `` that my sister has no innate power of commanding the respect of your children , I must tell you it is not so ; and that she has . 
`` It is very ill , sir , '' said Tom . 
`` I speak without passion , but with extreme indignation and contempt for such a course of treatment , and for all who practise it , '' said Tom . 
`` Distinctly not , '' Tom answered . 
I have nothing more to say , '' said Tom , much flushed and flustered , now that it was over , `` except to crave permission to stand in your garden until my sister is ready . '' 
Not waiting to obtain it , Tom walked out . 
Before he had well begun to cool , his sister joined him . 
She was crying ; and Tom could not bear that any one about the house should see her doing that . 
`` They will think you are sorry to go , '' said Tom . 
`` No , Tom , no . 
said Tom . 
`` I am so sorry for you , dear , '' sobbed Tom 's sister . 
`` But you ought to be glad on my account , '' said Tom . 
The idea of Tom and his sister blustering , under any circumstances , was a splendid absurdity . 
But Tom was very far from feeling it to be so , in his excitement ; and passed out at the gate with such severe determination written in his face that the porter hardly knew him again . 
It was not until they had walked some short distance , and Tom found himself getting cooler and more collected , that he was quite restored to himself by an inquiry from his sister , who said in her pleasant little voice : `` Where are we going , Tom ? '' 
said Tom , stopping , `` I do n't know . '' 
asked Tom 's sister , looking wistfully in his face . 
`` No , '' said Tom . 
He did n't tell her that he had been going to stay with his friend John , and could on no account think of billeting two inmates upon him , of whom one was a young lady ; for he knew that would make her uncomfortable , and would cause her to regard herself as being an inconvenience to him . 
Neither did he like to leave her anywhere while he called on John and told him of this change in his arrangements ; for he was delicate of seeming to encroach upon the generous and hospitable nature of his friend . 
Therefore he said again , `` We must have some lodgings , of course ; '' and said it as stoutly as if he had been a perfect Directory and Guide-Book to all the lodgings in London . 
said Tom , `` What do you think ? '' 
Tom 's sister was not much wiser on such a topic than he was . 
So she squeezed her little purse into his coat-pocket , and folding the little hand with which she did so on the other little hand with which she clasped his arm , said nothing . 
`` It ought to be a cheap neighbourhood , '' said Tom , `` and not too far from London . 
`` I should think it was an excellent place , Tom . '' 
`` It used to be called Merry Islington , once upon a time , '' said Tom . 
`` If it 's not too dear , '' said Tom 's sister . 
`` Of course , if it 's not too dear , '' assented Tom . 
Tom 's sister would have gone anywhere with him ; so they walked off , arm in arm , as comfortably as possible . 
Finding presently that Islington was not in that neighbourhood , Tom made inquiries respecting a public conveyance thither : which they soon obtained . 
As they rode along , they were very full of conversation indeed , Tom relating what had happened to him , and Tom 's sister relating what had happened to her , and both finding a great deal more to say than time to say it in : for they had only just begun to talk , in comparison with what they had to tell each other , when they reached their journey 's end . 
`` Now , '' said Tom , `` we must first look out for some very unpretending streets , and then look out for bills in the windows . '' 
Tom 's simplicity was unabated , Heaven knows ; but now that he had somebody to rely upon him , he was stimulated to rely a little more upon himself , and was , in his own opinion , quite a desperate fellow . 
It was a goodly sight , when this important point was settled , to behold Tom and his sister trotting round to the baker 's , and the butcher 's , and the grocer 's , with a kind of dreadful delight in the unaccustomed cares of housekeeping ; taking secret counsel together as they gave their small orders , and distracted by the least suggestion on the part of the shopkeeper ! 
When they got back to the triangular parlour , and Tom 's sister , bustling to and fro , busy about a thousand pleasant nothings , stopped every now and then to give old Tom a kiss , or smile upon him ; Tom rubbed his hands , as if all Islington were his . 
It was late in the afternoon now , though , and high time for Tom to keep his appointment . 
So , after agreeing with his sister that in consideration of not having dined , they would venture on the extravagance of chops for supper at nine , he walked out again to narrate these marvellous occurrences to John . 
`` I am quite a family man all at once , '' thought Tom . 
Upon my word , '' thought Tom , quickening his pace , `` I do n't know what John will think has become of me . 
Tom 's evil genius did not lead him into the dens of any of those preparers of cannibalic pastry , who are represented in many standard country legends , as doing a lively retail business in the Metropolis ; nor did it mark him out as the prey of ring-droppers , pea and thimbleriggers , duffers , touters , or any of those bloodless sharpers , who are , perhaps , a little better known to the Police . 
He fell into conversation with no gentleman , who took him into a public-house , where there happened to be another gentleman , who swore he had more money than any gentleman , and very soon proved he had more money than one gentleman , by taking his away from him : neither did he fall into any other of the numerous man-traps which are set up , without notice , in the public grounds of this city . 
Now Tom , in his guileless distrust of London , thought himself very knowing in coming to the determination that he would not ask to be directed to Furnival 's Inn , if he could help it ; unless , indeed , he should happen to find himself near the Mint , or the Bank of England ; in which case , he would step in , and ask a civil question or two , confiding in the perfect respectability of the concern . 
So on he went , looking up all the streets he came near , and going up half of them ; and thus , by dint of not being true to Goswell Street , and filing off into Aldermanbury , and bewildering himself in Barbican , and being constant to the wrong point of the compass in London Wall , and then getting himself crosswise into Thames Street , by an instinct that would have been marvellous if he had had the least desire or reason to go there , he found himself , at last , hard by the Monument . 
The Man in the Monument was quite as mysterious a being to Tom as the Man in the Moon . 
It immediately occurred to him that the lonely creature who held himself aloof from all mankind in that pillar , like some old hermit , was the very man of whom to ask his way . 
Cold , he might be ; little sympathy he had , perhaps , with human passion -- the column seemed too tall for that ; but if Truth did n't live in the base of the Monument , notwithstanding Pope 's couplet about the outside of it , where in London -LRB- Tom thought -RRB- was she likely to be found ! 
Coming close below the pillar , it was a great encouragement to Tom to find that the Man in the Monument had simple tastes ; that stony and artificial as his residence was , he still preserved some rustic recollections ; that he liked plants , hung up bird-cages , was not wholly cut off from fresh groundsel , and kept young trees in tubs . 
Tom was advancing towards this remarkable creature , to inquire the way to Furnival 's Inn , when two people came to see the Monument . 
Tom could n't ask his way of him . 
He was prepared to put no confidence in anything he said . 
said Tom . 
`` I have rather wandered from my way , '' said Tom . 
`` I have left him , '' returned Tom . 
`` No , not yet , '' said Tom , colouring : `` to tell you the truth , I do n't think he is likely to be , if -- if Miss Graham is the object of his passion . '' 
Tom hinted , to divert the conversation . 
said Tom . 
The great stress on the two last words suggested to Tom that he was expected to say something in reference to them . 
So he said : `` Only at present ! 
`` I thought from your saying at present '' -- Tom observed . 
Tom mentioned , to excuse himself , that he had an appointment in Furnival 's Inn , and that coming from Islington he had taken a few wrong turnings , and arrived at the Monument instead . 
Miss Pecksniff simpered very much when he asked her if she knew the way to Furnival 's Inn , and at length found courage to reply : `` A gentleman who is a friend of mine , or at least who is not exactly a friend so much as a sort of acquaintance -- Oh , upon my word , I hardly know what I say , Mr. Pinch ; you must n't suppose there is any engagement between us ; or at least if there is , that it is at all a settled thing as yet -- is going to Furnival 's Inn immediately , I believe upon a little business , and I am sure he would be very glad to accompany you , so as to prevent your going wrong again . 
`` Then , I think , I 'll endeavour to find my way alone , '' said Tom ; `` for I fear she would not be very glad to see me . 
`` She has never heard of that , you may depend , '' said Cherry , gathering up the corners of her mouth , and nodding at Tom . 
cried Tom , who was really concerned by this insinuation . 
There was something hidden here , which piqued Tom 's interest and troubled his tender heart . 
When , in a moment 's irresolution he looked at Charity , he could not but observe a struggle in her face between a sense of triumph and a sense of shame ; nor could he but remark how , meeting even his eyes , which she cared so little for , she turned away her own , for all the splenetic defiance in her manner . 
An uneasy thought entered Tom 's head ; a shadowy misgiving that the altered relations between himself and Pecksniff , were somehow to involve an altered knowledge on his part of other people , and were to give him an insight into much of which he had had no previous suspicion . 
The house-door being opened , she went in before Tom , requesting him to follow her ; and led the way to the parlour door . 
Not more surprised than Tom was , when he looked upon her . 
With which Miss Pecksniff screamed out of the parlour , calling on Augustus Moddle to appear ; and left Tom Pinch alone with her . 
If she had always been his kindest friend ; if she had treated him through all his servitude with such consideration as was never yet received by struggling man ; if she had lightened every moment of those many years , and had ever spared and never wounded him ; his honest heart could not have swelled before her with a deeper pity , or a purer freedom from all base remembrance than it did then . 
Tom was sorry to hear her speaking in her old manner . 
He had not expected that . 
Yet he did not feel it a contradiction that he should be sorry to see her so unlike her old self , and sorry at the same time to hear her speaking in her old manner . 
`` We never quarrelled , '' said Tom . 
-- Tom was right in that , for one person can no more quarrel without an adversary , than one person can play at chess , or fight a duel . 
Do n't let us rake up byegones , '' said Tom . 
She looked at him for a moment ; dropped her bonnet from her hands ; spread them before her altered face ; and burst into tears . 
She spoke as little like her old self now , for certain , as Tom could possibly have wished . 
But she seemed to be appealing to him reproachfully , and he did not understand her . 
Tom repeated . 
After a moment 's reflection , Tom sat himself upon a chair beside her . 
`` Do you believe , '' said Tom , `` oh can you think , that what I said just now , I said with any but the true and plain intention which my words professed ? 
After a little while she thanked him , through her tears and sobs , and told him she had never been at once so sorry and so comforted , since she left home . 
Still she wept bitterly ; and it was the greater pain to Tom to see her weeping , from her standing in especial need , just then , of sympathy and tenderness . 
said Tom , `` you used to be as cheerful as the day was long . '' 
she cried , in such a tone as rent Tom 's heart . 
`` And will be again , '' said Tom . 
If you should talk with old Mr. Chuzzlewit , at any time , '' she added looking hurriedly into his face -- `` I sometimes thought he liked you , but suppressed it -- will you promise me to tell him that you saw me here , and that I said I bore in mind the time we talked together in the churchyard ? '' 
Tom promised that he would . 
Tom promised this , conditionally , too . 
He did not tell her how improbable it was that he and the old man would ever meet again , because he thought it might disturb her more . 
`` Yes , yes , '' said Tom , `` I will . '' 
Although Tom did not hold the clue to her full meaning , he could guess it pretty nearly . 
Touched to the quick , he took her hand and said , or meant to say , some words of consolation . 
He was not quite certain afterwards but that she had tried to kneel down at his feet , and bless him . 
He found that he was not alone in the room when she had left it . 
Tom had never seen Mrs. Todgers , it is needless to say , but he had a perception of her being the lady of the house ; and he saw some genuine compassion in her eyes , that won his good opinion . 
`` Yes , '' said Tom . 
Tom was struck by these words , for they were quite true . 
`` Indeed , '' he said , `` she has not . '' 
Tom nodded sorrowfully , `` so do I. '' `` I fully believe , '' said Mrs. Todgers , taking her pocket-handkerchief from the flat reticule , `` that nobody can tell one half of what that poor young creature has to undergo . 
She was growing beautiful so rapidly in Tom 's eyes ; for he saw that she was poor , and that this good had sprung up in her from among the sordid strivings of her life ; that she might have been a very Venus in a minute more , if Miss Pecksniff had not entered with her friend . 
sighed Charity , looking at Tom . 
He did not improve at all when Tom and he were in the streets , but sighed so dismally that it was dreadful to hear him . 
As a means of cheering him up , Tom told him that he wished him joy . 
thought Tom . 
Tom admitted that it was a subject in which he certainly felt some interest . 
Tom inferred from these , and other expressions of the same nature , that he was jealous . 
Therefore he allowed him to take his own course ; which was such a gloomy one , that he felt a load removed from his mind when they parted company at the gate of Furnival 's Inn . 
It was now a couple of hours past John Westlock 's dinner-time ; and he was walking up and down the room , quite anxious for Tom 's safety . 
`` Why , Tom , old boy , where on earth have you been ? 
`` I am sorry to say I ca n't stay , John , '' replied Tom Pinch , who was breathless with the haste he had made in running up the stairs . 
`` If you 'll go on with your dinner , '' said Tom , `` I 'll tell you my reason the while . 
But there are , at Islington , '' said Tom . 
John Westlock was perfectly confounded by this reply , and vowed he would not touch a morsel until Tom had explained himself fully . 
So Tom sat down , and told him all ; to which he listened with the greatest interest . 
He knew Tom too well , and respected his delicacy too much , to ask him why he had taken these measures without communicating with him first . 
He quite concurred in the expediency of Tom 's immediately returning to his sister , as he knew so little of the place in which he had left her ; and good-humouredly proposed to ride back with him in a cab , in which he might convey his box . 
Tom 's proposition that he should sup with them that night , he flatly rejected , but made an appointment with him for the morrow , `` And now Tom , '' he said , as they rode along , `` I have a question to ask you , to which I expect a manly and straight-forward answer . 
`` I do n't indeed , '' said Tom . 
With many thanks to you , I am quite in earnest , '' Tom replied . 
I bide my time , Tom . '' 
`` And I hope you 'll continue to bide it , '' returned Tom gaily . 
They parted at the door of Tom 's new residence . 
John Westlock , sitting in the cab , and , catching a glimpse of a blooming little busy creature darting out to kiss Tom and to help him with his box , would not have had the least objection to change places with him . 
she was a cheerful little thing ; and had a quaint , bright quietness about her , that was infinitely pleasant . 
Surely she was the best sauce for chops ever invented . 
The potatoes seemed to take a pleasure in sending up their grateful steam before her ; the froth upon the pint of porter pouted to attract her notice . 
She saw nothing but Tom . 
Tom was the first and last thing in the world . 
As she sat opposite to Tom at supper , fingering one of Tom 's pet tunes upon the table cloth , and smiling in his face , he had never been so happy in his life . 
In walking from the City with his sentimental friend , Tom Pinch had looked into the face , and brushed against the threadbare sleeve , of Mr. Nadgett , man of mystery to the Anglo-Bengalee Disinterested Loan and Life Insurance Company . 
Mr. Nadgett naturally passed away from Tom 's remembrance , as he passed out of his view ; for he did n't know him , and had never heard his name . 
Mr. Nadgett might have passed Tom Pinch ten thousand times ; might even have been quite familiar with his face , his name , pursuits , and character ; yet never once have dreamed that Tom had any interest in any act or mystery of his . 
Tom might have done the like by him , of course . 
Why Tom had Jonas Chuzzlewit in his mind requires no explanation . 
Why Mr. Nadgett should have had Jonas Chuzzlewit in his , is quite another thing . 
It was on the morning of this very day on which so much had happened to Tom Pinch , that Nadgett suddenly appeared before Mr. Montague 's house in Pall Mall -- he always made his appearance as if he had that moment come up a trap -- when the clocks were striking nine . 
To be Tom 's housekeeper . 
Housekeeping , upon the commonest terms , associated itself with elevated responsibilities of all sorts and kinds ; but housekeeping for Tom , implied the utmost complication of grave trusts and mighty charges . 
Well might she take the keys out of the little chiffonnier which held the tea and sugar ; and out of the two little damp cupboards down by the fire-place , where the very black beetles got mouldy , and had the shine taken out of their backs by envious mildew ; and jingle them upon a ring before Tom 's eyes when he came down to breakfast ! 
So far from being despotic , however , there was a coyness about her very way of pouring out the tea , which Tom quite revelled in . 
And when she asked him what he would like to have for dinner , and faltered out `` chops '' as a reasonably good suggestion after their last night 's successful supper , Tom grew quite facetious and rallied her desperately . 
`` I do n't know Tom , '' said his sister , blushing , `` I am not quite confident , but I think I could make a beef-steak pudding , if I tried , Tom . '' 
cried Tom : slapping his leg to give the greater force to this reply . 
But if it should happen not to come quite right the first time , '' his sister faltered ; `` if it should happen not to be a pudding exactly , but should turn out a stew , or a soup , or something of that sort , you 'll not be vexed Tom , will you ? '' 
The serious way in which she looked at Tom ; the way in which Tom looked at her ; and the way in which she gradually broke into a merry laugh at her own expense ; would have enchanted you . 
`` Why , '' said Tom , `` this is capital . 
`` I shall not be at all surprised if we do , Tom , '' returned his sister , still laughing merrily , `` or if it should prove to be such a dish as we shall not feel very anxious to produce again ; but the meat must come out of the saucepan at last , somehow or other , you know . 
`` I have not the least doubt , '' rejoined Tom , `` that it will come out an excellent pudding ; or at all events , I am sure that I shall think it so . 
And Tom was right . 
she washed up the breakfast cups , chatting away the whole time , and telling Tom all sorts of anecdotes about the brass and copper founder ; put everything in its place ; made the room as neat as herself ; -- you must not suppose its shape was half as neat as her 's though , or anything like it ; and brushed Tom 's old hat round and round and round again , until it was as sleek as Mr. Pecksniff . 
Then she discovered , all in a moment , that Tom 's shirt-collar was frayed at the edge ; and flying up stairs for a needle and thread , came flying down again with her thimble on , and set it right with wonderful expertness ; never once sticking the needle into his face , although she was humming his pet tune from first to last , and beating time with the fingers of her left hand upon his neckcloth . 
She had no sooner done this , than off she was again ; and there she stood once more , as brisk and busy as a bee , tying that compact little chin of her 's into an equally compact little bonnet ; intent on bustling out to the butcher 's , without a minute 's loss of time ; and inviting Tom to come and see the steak cut with his own eyes . 
As to Tom , he was ready to go anywhere ; so off they trotted , arm-in-arm , as nimbly as you please : saying to each other what a quiet street it was to lodge in , and how very cheap , and what an airy situation . 
Perhaps the greenest cabbage-leaf ever grown in a garden was wrapped about this steak , before it was delivered over to Tom . 
But the butcher had a sentiment for his business , and knew how to refine upon it . 
When he saw Tom putting the cabbage-leaf into his pocket awkwardly , he begged to be allowed to do it for him ; `` for meat , '' he said , with some emotion , `` must be humoured , not drove . '' 
Back they went to the lodgings again , after they had bought some eggs , and flour , and such small matters ; and Tom sat gravely down to write , at one end of the parlour table , while Ruth prepared to make the pudding , at the other end : for there was nobody in the house but an old woman -LRB- the landlord being a mysterious sort of man , who went out early in the morning , and was scarcely ever seen -RRB- ; and , saving in mere household drudgery , they waited on themselves . 
`` What are you writing , Tom ? '' 
`` Why , you see , my dear , '' said Tom , leaning back in his chair , and looking up in her face , `` I am very anxious , of course , to obtain some suitable employment ; and , before Mr. Westlock comes this afternoon , I think I may as well prepare a little description of myself and my qualifications ; such as he could shew to any friend of his . '' 
`` You had better do the same for me , Tom , also , '' said his sister , casting down her eyes . 
`` I should dearly like to keep house for you , and take care of you , always , Tom ; but we are not rich enough for that . '' 
`` We are not rich , '' returned Tom , `` certainly ; and we may be much poorer . 
`` Think , Tom ! '' 
interposed Tom , tenderly . 
`` No , no ; I wo n't , Tom . 
`` We do n't know that , '' said Tom . 
; Tom 's energy became quite grand ; `` There is no knowing what may happen , if we try hard . 
`` Yes : that I am sure we can , Tom . '' 
`` Why , then , '' said Tom , `` we must try for it . 
said Tom , giving her a gentle push . 
`` You will call it a pudding , Tom . 
`` I may as well call it that , 'till it proves to be something else , '' said Tom . 
And in such pleasant earnest , moreover , that Tom 's attention wandered from his writing , every moment . 
; and during the whole of these preparations she looked demurely every now and then at Tom , from under her dark eye-lashes , as if they were all a part of the pudding , and indispensable to its composition . 
For the life and soul of him , Tom could get no further in his writing then , `` A respectable young man aged thirty-five , '' and this , notwithstanding the show she made of being supernaturally quiet , and going about on tiptoe , lest she should disturb him : which only served as an additional means of distracting his attention , and keeping it upon her . 
`` Tom , '' she said at last , in high glee . 
`` Tom ! '' 
said Tom , repeating to himself , `` aged thirty-five ! 
As if he had n't been looking all the time ! 
`` I am going to begin , Tom . 
said his busy little sister . 
`` Eh , Tom ? '' 
`` Not more than you do , I dare say , '' replied Tom , laughing . 
`` What an infidel you are , Tom ! 
My goodness , Tom ! '' 
Tom lined out `` A respectable young man , aged thirty-five ; '' and sat looking on , pen in hand , with one of the most loving smiles imaginable . 
It was a perfect treat to Tom to see her with her brows knit , and her rosy lips pursed up , kneading away at the crust , rolling it out , cutting it up into strips , lining the basin with it , shaving it off fine round the rim ; chopping up the steak into small pieces , raining down pepper and salt upon them , packing them into the basin , pouring in cold water for gravy ; and never venturing to steal a look in his direction , lest her gravity should be disturbed ; until at last , the basin being quite full and only wanting the top crust , she clapped her hands , all covered with paste and flour , at Tom , and burst out heartily into such a charming little laugh of triumph , that the pudding need have had no other seasoning to commend it to the taste of any reasonable man on earth . 
said Tom . 
For he was cutting his jokes , Tom was . 
said Tom . 
`` It will be , you stupid fellow , when it 's covered in , '' returned his sister . 
Tom still pretending to look incredulous , she gave him a tap on the head with the rolling-pin , and still laughing merrily , had returned to the composition of the top-crust , when she started and turned very red . 
Tom started , too , for following her eyes ; he saw John Westlock in the room . 
Tom , will you kindly come to my relief ? '' 
`` Mr. John Westlock , '' said Tom . 
`` My sister is not indisposed perhaps to say the same to you on her own behalf , '' retorted Tom . 
`` I am delighted to see you , '' said Tom . 
`` I can only think of sitting down , on one condition , '' returned his friend : `` and that is , that your sister goes on with the pudding , as if you were still alone . '' 
`` That I am sure she will , '' said Tom . 
Poor little Ruth was seized with a palpitation of the heart when Tom committed this appalling indiscretion , for she felt that if the dish turned out a failure , she never would be able to hold up her head before John Westlock again . 
`` I am here much earlier than I intended , Tom ; but I will tell you what brings me , and I think I can answer for your being glad to hear it . 
cried Tom , who had forgotten the blotted scrap of paper in his hand , until this inquiry brought it to his recollection . 
`` I do n't think you will have occasion to finish it , Tom . 
Tom looked at his sister with all his might ; and certainly his sister looked with all her might at him . 
echoed Tom . 
asked Tom . 
`` No , Tom . '' 
`` I am very happy to hear that I have , '' said Tom , `` but it 's news to me . 
`` Seriously , Tom , here is the plain state of the case . 
''' suggested Tom . 
And the person who knocked , not being a respectable young man aged thirty-five , from the country , came in when he was invited , Tom , instead of standing gaping and staring about him on the landing . 
when he came in , I found he was a stranger ; a grave , business-like , sedate-looking , stranger . 
` Pray be seated , sir , ' said I. '' Here John stopped for an instant , to glance towards the table , where Tom 's sister , listening attentively , was still busy with the basin , which by this time made a noble appearance . 
Then he resumed : `` The pudding having taken a chair , Tom '' -- `` What ! '' 
cried Tom . 
Having taken a chair , Tom a chair -- amazed me by opening the conversation thus : ` I believe you are acquainted , sir , with Mr. Thomas Pinch ? ' 
cried Tom . 
`` His very words , I assure you . 
I told him that I was . 
He had casually heard , in a roundabout way , that you had left your situation with Mr. Pecksniff . 
`` Certainly , '' said Tom , nodding his head . 
''' Tom 's sister stopped short . 
cried Tom . 
''' `` Of course I begged him , '' pursued John Westlock , glancing at Tom 's sister , who was not less eager in her interest than Tom himself , `` to proceed , and said that I would undertake to see you immediately . 
cried Tom ; `` a hundred pounds a year ! 
`` But the strangest part of the story , '' resumed John Westlock , laying his hand on Tom 's wrist , to bespeak his attention , and repress his ecstacies for the moment : `` the strangest part of the story , Miss Pinch , is this . 
I do n't know this man from Adam ; neither does this man know Tom . '' 
`` He ca n't , '' said Tom , in great perplexity , `` if he 's a Londoner . 
`` And on my observing , '' John resumed , still keeping his hand upon Tom 's wrist , `` that I had no doubt he would excuse the freedom I took , in inquiring who directed him to me ; how he came to know of the change which had taken place in my friend 's position ; and how he came to be acquainted with my friend 's peculiar fitness for such an office as he had described ; he drily said that he was not at liberty to enter into any explanations . '' 
repeated Tom , drawing a long breath . 
``` I must be perfectly aware , ' he said , '' John added , ``` that to any person who had ever been in Mr. Pecksniff 's neighbourhood , Mr. Thomas Pinch and his acquirements were as well known as the Church steeple , or the Blue Dragon , '' `` The Blue Dragon ! '' 
replied Tom , staring alternately at his friend and his sister . 
He spoke as familiarly of the Blue Dragon , I give you my word , as if he had been Mark Tapley . 
I opened my eyes , I can tell you , when he did so ; but I could not fancy I had ever seen the man before , although he said with a smile , ` You know the Blue Dragon , Mr. Westlock ; you kept it up there , once or twice , yourself . ' 
You remember , Tom ? '' 
Tom nodded with great significance , and , falling into a state of deeper perplexity than before , observed that this was the most unaccountable and extraordinary circumstance he had ever heard of in his life . 
his friend repeated . 
`` Mr. Fips , '' said Tom , reading it aloud . 
`` But there he lives , Tom , and there he expects us to call this morning . 
Tom 's face , between his exultation in the hundred pounds a year , and his wonder at this narration , was only to be equalled by the face of his sister , on which there sat the very best expression of blooming surprise that any painter could have wished to see . 
`` Tom , '' said Ruth , after a little hesitation , `` Perhaps Mr. Westlock , in his friendship for you , knows more of this than he chooses to tell . '' 
Whatever else was obscure in the business , it appeared to be quite plain that Tom was offered a salary of one hundred pounds a year ; and this being the main point , the surrounding obscurity rather set it off than otherwise . 
Tom , being in a great flutter , wished to start for Austin Friars instantly , but they waited nearly an hour , by John 's advice , before they departed . 
Tom made himself as spruce as he could before leaving home , and when John Westlock , through the half-opened parlour door , had glimpses of that brave little sister brushing the collar of his coat in the passage , taking up loose stitches in his gloves , and hovering lightly about and about him , touching him up here and there in the height of her quaint , little , old-fashioned tidiness , he called to mind the fancy-portraits of her on the wall of the Pecksniffian work-room , and decided with uncommon indignation that they were gross libels , and not half pretty enough : though , as hath been mentioned in its place , the artists always made those sketches beautiful , and he had drawn at least a score of them with his own hands . 
`` Tom , '' he said , as they were walking along , `` I begin to think you must be somebody 's son . '' 
`` I suppose I am , '' Tom answered in his quiet way . 
`` Bless your heart , '' replied Tom . 
So we 'll not try , Tom . '' 
`` Dark indeed , '' John whispered in Tom Pinch 's ear . 
`` Not a bad place to dispose of a countryman in , I should think , Tom . '' 
Tom had been already turning over in his mind the possibility of their having been tempted into that region to furnish forth a pie ; but the sight of Mr. Fips , who was small and spare , and looked peaceable , and wore black shorts and powder , dispelled his doubts . 
He looked at Tom Pinch curiously , but with an entire freedom from any such expression as could be reasonably construed into an unusual display of interest . 
Mr. Fips inquired of Tom . 
`` I think it a piece of great good fortune , sir , '' said Tom . 
`` To your friend , sir , then , '' said Tom . 
Tom 's countenance fell ; for he thought this equivalent to telling him that his appearance did not answer ; and that Fips must look out for somebody else . 
But , '' said Fips , taking off a very deep impression of the wafer-stamp upon the calf of his left leg , and looking steadily at Tom , `` I do n't know that it 's a matter of much consequence . '' 
Poor Tom inclined his head deferentially , but appeared to doubt that . 
Weekly , '' said Mr. Fips , putting down the wafer-stamp , and looking at John Westlock and Tom Pinch by turns , `` weekly ; in this office ; at any time between the hours of four and five o'clock in the afternoon . '' 
`` You are very good , '' said Tom , whose countenance was now suffused with pleasure : `` and nothing can be more satisfactory or straight-forward . 
`` I did not mean the hours of attendance , '' retorted Tom , '' which are light and easy , I am sure ; but the place . '' 
Tom was delighted . 
cried Tom . 
Certainly Tom could . 
The interview had done so little to remove the mystery in which Tom 's new engagement was involved , and had done so much to thicken it , that neither could help smiling at the puzzled looks of the other . 
They agreed , however , that the introduction of Tom to his new office and office companions could hardly fail to throw a light upon the subject ; and therefore postponed its further consideration until after the fulfilment of the appointment they had made with Mr. Fips . 
`` You had better have a little plug made , '' he said , looking round at Tom , after blowing a shrill whistle into the barrel of the key . 
Tom thanked him ; but was too much occupied with his own speculations , and John Westlock 's looks , to be very talkative . 
He took the key out when he had done so and gave it to Tom . 
To these , Mr. Fips called Tom 's attention . 
Tom rubbed his hands in the pleasant anticipation of a task so congenial to his taste , and said : `` An occupation full of interest for me , I assure you . 
It will occupy me , perhaps , until Mr. -- '' `` Until Mr. -- '' repeated Fips ; as much as to ask Tom what he was stopping for . 
`` I forgot that you had not mentioned the gentleman 's name , '' said Tom . 
cried Mr. Fips , pulling on his glove , `` did n't I ? 
He said all this in such a comfortable , easy manner , that Tom could only rub his hands , and nod his head , and smile in acquiescence , which he was still doing , when Mr. Fips walked coolly out . 
`` Why , he 's gone , '' cried Tom . 
`` And what 's more , Tom , '' said John Westlock , seating himself upon a pile of books , and looking up at his astonished friend , `` he is evidently not coming back again : so here you are installed . 
Under rather singular circumstances , Tom ! '' 
It was such an odd affair throughout , and Tom standing there among the books with his hat in one hand and the key in the other , looked so prodigiously confounded , that his friend could not help laughing heartily . 
Tom himself was tickled : no less by the hilarity of his friend , than by the recollection of the sudden manner in which he had been brought to a stop , in the very height of his urbane conference with Mr. Fips ; so by degrees Tom burst out laughing too ; and each making the other laugh more , they fairly roared . 
The books were marked with a variety of owners ' names , having , no doubt , been bought at sales , and collected here and there at different times ; but whether any one of these names belonged to Tom 's employer , and , if so , which of them , they had no means whatever of determining . 
`` After all , Tom , I begin to think it lies no deeper than this . 
asked Tom . 
N2516032 Tom , being in that state of mind in which any explanation is a great relief , adopted this last one -LRB- which indeed was quite as feasible as any other -RRB- readily , and said he had no doubt of it . 
Nor was his faith at all shaken by his having said exactly the same thing to each suggestion of his friend 's in turn , and being perfectly ready to say it again if he had had any new solution to propose . 
As he had not , Tom drew down the window sash , and folded the shutter ; and they left the rooms . 
He closed the door heavily , as Mr. Fips had desired him ; tried it , found it all fast , and put the key in his pocket . 
They made a pretty wide circuit in going back to Islington , as they had time to spare ; and Tom was never tired of looking about him . 
It was well he had John Westlock for his companion , for most people would have been weary of his perpetual stoppages at shop-windows , and his frequent dashes into the crowded carriage-way at the peril of his life , to get the better view of church steeples , and other public buildings . 
But John was charmed to see him so much interested , and every time Tom came back with a beaming face from among the wheels of carts and hackney-coaches , wholly unconscious of the personal congratulations addressed to him by the drivers , John seemed to like him better than before . 
The success of that initiative dish : that first experiment of hers in cookery : was so entire , so unalloyed and perfect , that John Westlock and Tom agreed she must have been studying the art in secret for a long time past ; and urged her to make a full confession of the fact . 
They were exceedingly merry over this jest , and many smart things were said concerning it ; but John was not as fair in his behaviour as might have been expected , for , after luring Tom Pinch on for a long time , he suddenly went over to the enemy , and swore everything his sister said . 
However , as Tom observed the same night before going to bed , it was only in joke , and John had always been famous for being polite to ladies , even when he was quite a boy . 
And it was not all lively chat which occupied them ; for when Tom related how he had seen Mr. Pecksniff 's daughters , and what a change had fallen on the younger , they were very serious . 
John Westlock became quite absorbed in her fortunes ; asking many questions of Tom Pinch about her marriage , inquiring whether her husband was the gentleman whom Tom had brought to dine with him at Salisbury ; in what degree of relationship they stood towards each other , being different persons ; and taking , in short , the greatest interest in the subject . 
Tom then went into it , at full length ; he told how Martin had gone abroad , and had not been heard of for a long time ; how Dragon Mark had borne him company ; how Mr. Peck-sniff had got the poor old doting grandfather into his power ; and how he basely sought the hand of Mary Graham . 
But not a word said Tom of what lay hidden in his heart ; his heart , so deep , and true , and full of honour , and yet with so much room for every gentle and unselfish thought ; not a word . 
Tom , Tom ! 
The man in all this world most confident in his sagacity and shrewdness ; the man in all this world most proud of his distrust of other men , and having most to show in gold and silver as the gains belonging to his creed ; the meekest favourer of that wise doctrine , Every man for himself , and God for us all -LRB- there being high wisdom in the thought that the Eternal Majesty of Heaven ever was , or can be , on the side of selfish lust and love ! -RRB- 
Well , well , Tom , it was simple , too , though simple in a different way , to be so eager touching that same theatre , of which John said , when tea was done , he had the absolute command , so far as taking parties in without the payment of a sixpence , was concerned ; and simpler yet , perhaps , never to suspect that when he went in first , alone , he paid the money ! 
Simple in thee , dear Tom , to laugh and cry so heartily , at such a sorry show so poorly shown ; simple , to be so happy and loquacious trudging home with Ruth ; simple , to be so surprised to find that merry present of a cookery-book , awaiting her in the parlour next morning , with the beefsteak-pudding-leaf turned down , and blotted out . 
Thy quality of soul was simple , simple ; quite contemptible , Tom Pinch ! 
There was a ghostly air about these uninhabited chambers in the Temple , and attending every circumstance of Tom 's employment there , which had a strange charm in it . 
Every morning when he shut his door at Islington , he turned his face towards an atmosphere of unaccountable fascination , as surely as he turned it to the London smoke ; and from that moment , it thickened round and round him all day long , until the time arrived for going home again , and leaving it , like a motionless cloud , behind . 
It seemed to Tom , every morning , that he approached this ghostly mist , and became enveloped in it , by the easiest succession of degrees imaginable . 
Every echo of his footsteps sounded to him like a sound from the old walls and pavements , wanting language to relate the histories of the dim , dismal rooms ; to tell him what lost documents were decaying in forgotten corners of the shut-up cellars , from whose lattices such mouldy sighs came breathing forth as he went past ; to whisper of dark bins of rare old wine , bricked up in vaults among the old foundations of the Halls ; or mutter in a lower tone yet darker legends of the cross-legged knights , whose marble effigies were in the church . 
With the first planting of his foot upon the staircase of his dusty office , all these mysteries increased ; until ascending step by step , as Tom ascended , they attained their full growth in the solitary labours of the day . 
This employer ; would he come to-day , and what would he be like ? 
For Tom could not stop short at Mr. Fips ; he quite believed that Mr. Fips had spoken truly , when he said he acted for another ; and what manner of man that other was , became a full-blown flower of wonder in the garden of Tom 's fancy , which never faded or got trodden down . 
At one time he conceived that Mr. Pecksniff , repenting of his falsehood , might , by exertion of his influence with some third person , have devised these means of giving him employment . 
But John assured him that he -LRB- Tom Pinch -RRB- was far from doing justice to the character of Mr. Pecksniff yet , if he supposed that gentleman capable of performing a generous action ; and that he might make his mind quite easy on that head , until he saw the sun turn green and the moon black , and at the same time distinctly perceived with the naked eye , twelve first-rate comets careering round those planets . 
In short he laughed the idea down , completely ; and Tom , abandoning it , was thrown upon his beam-ends again for some other solution . 
In the meantime Tom attended to his duties daily , and made considerable progress with the books : which were already reduced to some sort of order , and made a great appearance in his fairly-written catalogue . 
During his business hours , he indulged himself occasionally with snatches of reading ; which were often indeed a necessary part of his pursuit ; and as he usually made bold to carry one of these goblin volumes home at night -LRB- always bringing it back again next morning , in case his strange employer should appear and ask what had become of it -RRB- , he led a happy , quiet , studious kind of life , after his own heart . 
But though the books were never so interesting , and never so full of novelty to Tom , they could not so enchain him , in those mysterious chambers , as to render him unconscious for a moment of the lightest sound . 
Any footstep on the flags without , set him listening attentively , and when it turned into that house , and came up , up , up , the stairs , he always thought with a beating heart , `` Now I am coming face to face with him , at last ! '' 
But no footstep ever passed the floor immediately below : except his own . 
This mystery and loneliness engendered fancies in Tom 's mind , the folly of which his common sense could readily discover , but which his common sense was quite unable to keep away , notwithstanding ; that quality being with most of us , in such a case , like the old French Police -- quick at detection , but very weak as a preventive power . 
Misgivings , undefined , absurd , inexplicable , that there was some one hiding in the inner room ; walking softly overhead , peeping in through the door-chink ; doing something stealthy , anywhere where he was not ; came over him a hundred times a day : making it pleasant to throw up the sash , and hold communication even with the sparrows who had built in the roof and water-spout , and were twittering about the windows all day long . 
He sat with the outer door wide open at all times , that he might hear the footsteps as they entered , and turned off into the chambers on the lower floors . 
He formed odd prepossessions too , regarding strangers in the streets ; and would say within himself of such or such a man , who struck him as having anything uncommon in his dress or aspect , `` I should n't wonder now if that were he ! '' 
Mr. Fips , of Austin Friars , rather deepened than illumined the obscurity of his position ; for on the first occasion of Tom 's waiting on him to receive his weekly pay , he said : `` Oh ! 
Tom thought he was going to tell him a secret ; so he said that he would n't on any account , and that Mr. Fips might entirely depend upon him . 
Tom prompted him : `` Not on any account , '' repeated Tom . 
`` You were going to say '' -- Tom hinted . 
However , seeing Tom confused , he added , `` I mean that you need n't mention any particulars about your place of employment , to people generally . 
`` I have not had the pleasure of seeing my employer yet , sir , '' observed Tom , putting his week 's salary in his pocket . 
`` I should like to thank him , and to know that what I have done so far , is done to his satisfaction , '' faltered Tom . 
Tom hastily resolved to try him on another tack . 
`` I shall soon have finished with the books , '' he said . 
This was the very utmost extent of information Tom could ever get out of him . 
But now a circumstance occurred , which helped to divert Tom 's thoughts from even this mystery , and to divide them between it and a new channel , which was a very Nile in itself . 
Having always been an early riser , and having now no Organ to engage him in sweet converse every morning , it was his habit to take a long walk before going to the Temple ; and naturally inclining , as a stranger , towards those parts of the town which were conspicuous for the life and animation pervading them , he became a great frequenter of the market-places , bridges , quays , and especially the steam-boat wharves ; for it was very lively and fresh to see the people hurrying away upon their many schemes of business or pleasure ; and it made Tom glad to think that there was that much change and freedom in the monotonous routine of city lives . 
In most of these morning excursions Ruth accompanied him . 
As their landlord was always up and away at his business -LRB- whatever that might be , no one seemed to know -RRB- at a very early hour , the habits of the people of the house in which they lodged corresponded with their own . 
After a two hours ' stroll they parted at some convenient point : Tom going to the Temple , and his sister returning home , as methodically as you please . 
Tiers upon tiers of vessels , scores of masts , labyrinths of tackle , idle sails , splashing oars , gliding row-boats , lumbering barges ; sunken piles , with ugly lodgings for the water-rat within their mud-discoloured nooks ; church steeples , warehouses , house-roofs , arches , bridges , men and women , children , casks , cranes , boxes , horses , coaches , idlers , and hard-labourers : there they were , all jumbled up together , any summer morning , far beyond Tom 's power of separation . 
Tom 's ship , however ; or , at least , the packet-boat in which Tom and his sister took the greatest interest on one particular occasion ; was not off yet , by any means ; but was at the height of its disorder . 
It was so amusing , that Tom , with Ruth upon his arm , stood looking down from the wharf , as nearly regardless as it was in the nature of flesh and blood to be , of an elderly lady behind him , who had brought a large umbrella with her , and did n't know what to do with it . 
This tremendous instrument had a hooked handle ; and its vicinity was first made known to him by a painful pressure on the windpipe , consequent upon its having caught him round the throat . 
Soon after disengaging himself with perfect good humour , he had a sensation of the ferrule in his back ; immediately afterwards , of the hook entangling his ankles ; then of the umbrella generally , wandering about his hat , and flapping at it like a great bird ; and , lastly , of a poke or thrust below the ribs , which gave him such exceeding anguish , that he could not refrain from turning round , to offer a mild remonstrance . 
Upon his turning round , he found the owner of the umbrella struggling , on tiptoe , with a countenance expressive of violent animosity , to look down upon the steamboats ; from which he inferred that she had attacked him : standing in the front row : by design , and as her natural enemy . 
said Tom . 
-- meaning the constabulary -- and went on to say , shaking the handle of the umbrella at Tom , that but for them fellers never being in the way when they was wanted , she 'd have given him in charge , she would . 
Instead of pursuing the altercation , therefore , Tom civilly inquired what boat she wanted to go on board of . 
said Tom . 
By this time , Mrs. Gamp -LRB- for it was no other than that experienced practitioner -RRB- had , with Tom 's assistance , squeezed and worked herself into a small corner between Ruth and the rail ; where , after breathing very hard for some little time , and performing a short series of dangerous evolutions with the umbrella , she managed to establish herself pretty comfortably . 
Tom and his sister glanced at each other ; and Ruth , after a moment 's hesitation , asked Mrs. Gamp what troubled her so much . 
She was so very earnest on the subject , that Tom 's sister -LRB- being as kind as Tom himself -RRB- , could not help saying something to her in reply . 
He did not , whatever his reason was , but led her quickly down and disappeared himself , without loosening his cloak , or pausing on the crowded deck one moment longer than was necessary to clear their way to that part of the vessel . 
Tom had not heard this little dialogue ; for his attention had been engaged in an unexpected manner . 
A hand upon his sleeve had caused him to look round just when Mrs. Gamp concluded her apostrophe to the steam-engine ; and on his right arm , Ruth being on his left , he found their landlord ; to his great surprise . 
He was not so much surprised at the man 's being there , as at his having got close to him so quietly and swiftly ; for another person had been at his elbow one instant before ; and he had not in the meantime been conscious of any change or pressure in the knot of people among whom he stood . 
He and Ruth had frequently remarked how noiselessly this landlord of thier 's came into and went out of his own house ; but Tom was not the less amazed to see him at his elbow now . 
`` I beg your pardon , Mr. Pinch , '' he said in his ear . 
If he did not , it was curious that in speaking he should have singled out from all the crowd the very people whom he described : and should have glanced hastily from them to Tom , as if he were burning to direct his wandering eyes . 
said Tom , `` and a lady in a black shawl ! 
not there , '' he added , following Tom 's gaze ; `` the other way ; in that direction ; down yonder . '' 
Again he indicated , but this time in his hurry , with his outstretched finger , the very spot on which the progress of these persons was checked at that moment . 
`` There are so many people , and so much motion , and so many objects , '' said Tom , `` that I find it difficult to -- no , I really do n't see a gentleman in a large cloak , and a lady in a black shawl . 
cried his landlord , pointing eagerly again , `` not there . 
said Tom , `` you 're right . 
returned the other , not looking at what Tom pointed out , however , but at Tom 's own face . 
His hands shook , and his face bespoke the utmost interest and agitation , as he pressed the letter upon Tom , and pointed to its destination , like the Tempter in some grim old carving . 
To hesitate in the performance of a good-natured or compassionate office , was not in Tom 's way . 
He took the letter ; whispered Ruth to wait till he returned , which would be immediately ; and ran down the steps with all the expedition he could make . 
There were so many people going down , so many others coming up , such heavy goods in course of transit to and fro , such a ringing of bells , blowing-off of steam , and shouting of men 's voices , that he had much ado to force his way , or keep in mind to which boat he was going . 
But he reached the right one with good speed , and going down the cabin-stairs immediately , descried the object of his search standing at the further end of the saloon , with his back towards him , reading some notice which was hung against the wall . 
As Tom advanced to give him the letter , he started , hearing footsteps , and turned round . 
What was Tom 's astonishment to find in him the man with whom he had had the conflict in the field , poor Mercy 's husband . 
Tom understood him to say , what the devil did he want ; but it was not easy to make out what he said ; he spoke so indistinctly . 
`` I want nothing with you for myself ; '' said Tom , `` I was asked a moment since to give you this letter . 
He did so , opened it , and read the writing on the inside . 
The contents were evidently very brief ; not more perhaps than one line ; but they struck upon him like a stone from a sling . 
He reeled back as he read . 
His emotion was so different from any Tom had ever seen before , that he stopped involuntarily . 
Momentary as his state of indecision was , the bell ceased while he stood there ; and a hoarse voice calling down the steps , inquired if there was any one to go ashore . 
He threw open another door as he spoke , and dragged , rather than led , her forth . 
She was pale and frightened , and amazed to see her old acquaintance ; but had no time to speak , for they were making a great stir above ; and Jonas drew her rapidly towards the deck . 
He turned , even in the madness of his hurry , and scowling darkly back at Tom , shook his clenched hand at him . 
There are not many human faces capable of the expression with which he accompanied that gesture . 
He dragged her up , and Tom followed them . 
Across the deck , over the side , along the crazy plank , and up the steps , he dragged her fiercely ; not bestowing any look on her , but gazing upwards all the while among the faces on the wharf . 
Suddenly he turned again , and said to Tom with a tremendous oath : `` Where is he ? '' 
Before Tom , in his indignation and amazement , could return an answer to a question he so little understood , a gentleman approached Tom behind , and saluted Jonas Chuzzlewit by name . 
He was a gentleman of foreign appearance , with a black moustache and whiskers ; and addressed him with a polite composure , strangely different from his own distracted and desperate manner . 
Jonas gave him a sinister look , which long lived in Tom 's memory , and which he often recalled afterwards . 
The whole of this extraordinary scene had passed so rapidly , and the tumult which prevailed around was so unconscious of any impression from it , that although Tom had been one of the chief actors , it was like a dream . 
No one had noticed him after they had left the packet . 
He had stood behind Jonas , and so near him , that he could not help hearing all that passed . 
`` If any power of mercy lay with me , '' cried Tom , `` trust me , you should n't ask in vain . 
She withdrew into the coach again , and he saw the hand waving towards him for a moment ; but whether in reproachfulness or incredulity , or misery , or grief , or sad adieu , or what else , he could not , being so hurried , understand . 
She was gone now ; and Ruth and he were left to walk away , and wonder . 
There was a striking difference in his manner , compared with what it had been , within a few minutes , when Tom encountered him so unexpectedly on board the packet , or when the ugly change had fallen on him in Mr. Montague 's dressing-room . 
`` Out of the way , Tom Thumb , and get to bed ! '' 
`` Poor old Tom ! '' 
`` It 's a comfort to know , '' resumed the landlady , `` that he has his sister living with him , and is doing well . 
Only yesterday he sent me back , by post , a little '' -- here the colour came into her cheeks -- `` a little trifle I was bold enough to lend him when he went away : saying , with many thanks , that he had good employment , and did n't want it . 
It was the same note ; he had n't broken it . 
Perhaps it was well for Mr. Pecksniff that his venerable friend found in his -LRB- Mr. Pecksniff 's -RRB- features an exclusive and engrossing object of contemplation , for if his eyes had gone astray , and he had compared young Martin 's bearing with that of his zealous defender , the latter disinterested gentleman would scarcely have shown to greater advantage than on the memorable afternoon when he took Tom Pinch 's last receipt in full of all demands . 
He heard of Tom Pinch too , and Jonas too , with not a little about himself into the bargain ; for though lovers are remarkable for leaving a great deal unsaid on all occasions , and very properly desiring to come back and say it , they are remarkable also for a wonderful power of condensation ; and can , in one way or other , give utterance to more language -- eloquent language -- in any given short space of time , than all the six hundred and fifty-eight members in the Commons House of Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland ; who are strong lovers , no doubt , but of their country only , which makes all the difference ; for in a passion of that kind -LRB- which is not always returned -RRB- , it is the custom to use as many words as possible , and express nothing whatever . 
Tom Pinch has succeeded . 
With his advice to guide me , I may do the same . 
I took Tom under my protection once , God save the mark ! '' 
Perhaps Tom will take me under his protection now , and teach me how to earn my bread . '' 
Tom Pinch and his sister having to part , for the dispatch of the morning 's business , immediately after the dispersion of the other actors in the scene upon the Wharf with which the reader has been already made acquainted , had no opportunity of discussing the subject at that time . 
But Tom , in his solitary office , and Ruth , in the triangular parlour , thought about nothing else all day ; and , when their hour of meeting in the afternoon approached , they were very full of it , to be sure . 
There was a little plot between them , that Tom should always come out of the Temple by one way ; and that was , past the fountain . 
Coming through Fountain Court , he was just to glance down the steps leading into Garden Court , and to look once all round him ; and if Ruth had come to meet him , there he would see her ; not sauntering , you understand -LRB- on account of the clerks -RRB- , but coming briskly up , with the best little laugh upon her face that ever played in opposition to the fountain , and beat it all to nothing . 
For , fifty to one , Tom had been looking for her in the wrong direction , and had quite given her up , while she had been tripping towards him from the first : jingling that little reticule of hers -LRB- with all the keys in it -RRB- to attract his wandering observation . 
Either she was a little too soon , or Tom was a little too late -- she was so precise in general , that she timed it to half a minute -- but no Tom was there . 
They walked up and down three or four times , speaking about Tom and his mysterious employment . 
They found out Tom , though , quickly enough . 
This pair of eyes descried him in the distance , the moment he appeared . 
He was staring about him , as usual , in all directions but the right one ; and was as obstinate in not looking towards them , as if he had intended it . 
As it was plain that , being left to himself , he would walk away home , John Westlock darted off to stop him . 
There was Tom , manifesting extreme surprise -LRB- he had no presence of mind , that Tom , on small occasions -RRB- ; there was John , making as light of it as he could , but explaining at the same time , with most unnecessary elaboration ; and here was she , coming towards them , with both of them looking at her , conscious of blushing to a terrible extent , but trying to throw up her eyebrows carelessly , and pout her rosy lips , as if she were the coolest and most unconcerned of little women . 
said Tom . 
`` Exactly , '' cried Tom ; `` that 's what I mean , you know . 
`` Such an out-of-the-way place for you to have met in , '' pursued Tom , quite delighted . 
She was squeezing it now , as much as to say , `` Are you going to stop here all day , you dear , old , blundering Tom ? '' 
Tom answered the squeeze as if it had been a speech . 
`` John , '' he said , `` if you 'll give my sister your arm , we 'll take her between us , and walk on . 
`` Tom , '' said his friend , as they turned into the noisy street , `` I have a proposition to make . 
cried Tom . 
you must not believe that , Ruth , '' said Tom . 
`` If you please , Tom , '' rejoined his dutiful little sister . 
`` But I mean , '' said Tom , regarding her with smiling admiration : `` is there anything you ought to wear , and have n't got ? 
asked Tom . 
cried Tom . 
It is unnecessary to say that Tom had been present at the making of the pudding , and had been a devoted believer in it all through . 
But he was so delighted to have this joke against his busy little sister , and was tickled to that degree at having found her out , that he stopped in Temple Bar to laugh ; and it was no more to Tom , that he was anathematized and knocked about by the surly passengers , than it would have been to a post ; for he continued to exclaim with unabated good humour , `` flour and eggs ! 
until John Westlock and his sister fairly ran away from him , and left him to have his laugh out by himself ; which he had ; and then came dodging across the crowded street to them , with such sweet temper and tenderness -LRB- it was quite a tender joke of Tom 's -RRB- beaming in his face , God bless it , that it might have purified the air , though Temple Bar had been , as in the golden days gone by , embellished with a row of rotting human heads . 
He had no sooner ushered Tom and his sister into his best room -LRB- where there was a beautiful little vase of fresh flowers on the table , all ready for Ruth . 
Just as if he had expected her , Tom said -RRB- , than seizing his hat , he bustled out again , in his most energetically bustling way ; and presently came hurrying back , as they saw through the half-opened door , attended by a fiery-faced matron attired in a crunched bonnet , with particularly long strings to it hanging down her back ; in conjunction with whom , he instantly began to lay the cloth for dinner , polishing up the wine glasses with his own hands , brightening the silver top of the pepper-castor on his coat-sleeve , drawing corks and filling decanters , with a skill and expedition that were quite dazzling . 
And as if , in the course of this rubbing and polishing , he had rubbed an enchanted lamp or a magic ring , obedient to which there were twenty thousand supernatural slaves at least , suddenly there appeared a being in a white waistcoat , carrying under his arm a napkin , and attended by another being with an oblong box upon his head , from which a banquet , piping hot , was taken out and set upon the table . 
cried Tom . 
`` Do n't believe a word he says , '' cried Tom . 
said Tom Pinch , `` I do n't know where you can go , John , to be more comfortable . 
`` But you are forgetting what you had to tell , Tom : what occurred this morning , '' she added in the same breath . 
`` So I am , '' said Tom . 
On Tom 's relating what had passed upon the wharf , his friend was very much surprised , and took such a great interest in the narrative as Tom could not quite understand . 
He believed he knew the old lady whose acquaintance they had made , he said ; and that he might venture to say , from their description of her , that her name was Gamp . 
But of what nature the communication could have been which Tom had borne so unexpectedly ; why its delivery had been entrusted to him ; how it happened that the parties were involved together ; and what secret lay at the bottom of the whole affair ; perplexed him very much . 
Tom had been sure of his taking some interest in the matter ; but was not prepared for the strong interest he shewed . 
`` I shall remonstrate with my landlord , of course , '' said Tom : `` though he is a very singular secret sort of man , and not likely to afford me much satisfaction ; even if he knew what was in the letter . '' 
said Tom , `` I shall remonstrate with him when I see him -LRB- he goes in and out in a strange way , but I will try to catch him to-morrow morning -RRB- , on his having asked me to execute such an unpleasant commission . 
`` You are perfectly right , Tom , '' returned his friend , after a short interval of reflection . 
I have a misgiving that there is something dark at work here , Tom . 
All this sounded very mysterious to Tom Pinch . 
But as he knew he could rely upon his friend , he resolved to follow this advice . 
John seemed to think it all delightful : for coming in with Tom to tea , he took his seat beside her like a man enchanted . 
And when the tea-service had been removed , and Tom , sitting down at the piano , became absorbed in some of his old organ tunes , he was still beside her at the open window , looking out upon the twilight . 
What gave it such a charm to them , that they remained at the window as unconscious of the flight of time as Tom himself , the dreamer , while the melodies which had so often soothed his spirit , were hovering again about him ! 
Still Tom 's fingers wandered over the keys of the piano ; and still the window had its pair of tenants . 
At length , her hand upon his shoulder , and her breath upon his forehead , roused Tom from his reverie . 
he cried , desisting with a start . 
Tom little thought how much consideration and politeness he had shown ! 
`` Sing something to us , my dear , '' said Tom . 
John Westlock added his entreaties , with such earnestness that a flinty heart alone could have resisted them . 
So down she sat , and in a pleasant voice began to sing the ballads Tom loved well . 
said Tom . 
John thought he would walk with them . 
said Tom . 
But John said he would rather . 
said Tom . 
John being quite sure , gave his arm to Ruth , and led her out . 
Fiery-face , who was again in attendance , acknowledged her departure with so cold a curtsey that it was hardly visible ; and cut Tom , dead . 
Their host was bent on walking the whole distance , and would not listen to Tom 's dissuasions . 
On the next day 's official duties coming to a close , Tom hurried home without losing any time by the way ; and , after dinner and a short rest , sallied out again , accompanied by Ruth , to pay his projected visit to Todgers 's . 
Tom took Ruth with him , not only because it was a great pleasure to him to have her for his companion whenever he could , but because he wished her to cherish and comfort poor Merry ; which she , for her own part -LRB- having heard the wretched history of that young wife from Tom -RRB- , was all eagerness to do . 
`` She was so glad to see me , '' said Tom , `` that I am sure she will be glad to see you . 
`` I am very far from being certain of that , Tom , '' she replied ; `` and indeed you do yourself an injustice . 
But I hope she may like me , Tom . '' 
cried Tom , confidently . 
Should n't I , Tom , dear ? '' 
said his little sister , pinching him upon the cheek . 
Tom laughed , and said that with reference to this particuliar case he had no doubt at all of finding a disciple in Merry . 
`` For you women , '' said Tom , `` you women , my dear , are so kind , and in your kindness have such nice perception ; you know so well how to be affectionate and full of solicitude without appearing to be ; your gentleness of feeling is like your touch : so light and easy , that the one enables you to deal with wounds of the mind as tenderly as the other enables you to deal with wounds of the body . 
You are such -- '' `` My goodness , Tom ! '' 
his sister interposed . 
Tom put this observation off good-humouredly , but somewhat gravely too ; and they were soon very chatty again on some other subject . 
As they were passing through a street in the City , not very far from Mrs. Todgers 's place of residence , Ruth checked Tom before the window of a large Upholstery and Furniture Warehouse , to call his attention to something very magnificent and ingenious , displayed there to the best advantage , for the admiration and temptation of the public . 
Tom had hazarded some most erroneous and extravagantly wrong guess in relation to the price of this article , and had joined his sister in laughing heartily at his mistake , when he pressed her arm in his , and pointed to two persons at a little distance , who were looking in at the same window with a deep interest in the chests of drawers and tables . 
Tom whispered . 
`` Why does he look as if he was going to be buried , Tom ? '' 
inquired his little sister . 
`` Why , he is naturally a dismal young gentleman , I believe , '' said Tom : `` but he is very civil and inoffensive . '' 
`` Yes , I suppose they are , '' replied Tom . 
Miss Pecksniff , turning to receive this announcement , became conscious of the observation of Tom Pinch and his sister . 
Whether the recollection of the old service Tom had rendered her in knocking Mr. Jonas on the head , had wrought this change in her opinions ; or whether her separation from her parent had reconciled her to all human-kind , or to all that increasing portion of human-kind which was not friendly to him ; or whether the delight of having some new female acquaintance to whom to communicate her interesting prospects , was paramount to every other consideration ; cordial and kind Miss Pecksniff was . 
She then asked Tom Pinch which way he was going . 
`` I was going to see if I could find your sister , '' answered Tom , `` to whom I wished to say a few words . 
You need n't think of him , '' she added , nodding her head , as she observed some hesitation on Tom 's part . 
asked Tom . 
In furtherance of this bashful arrangement , Moddle gave his arm to Tom ; and Miss Pecksniff linked her own in Ruth 's . 
Ruth intimated that , as far as she could judge , he was a very eligible swain . 
Ruth acknowledged that he had impressed her at first sight as looking `` rather low . '' 
Ruth thought of several things ; such as his digestion , his tailor , his mother , and the like . 
While this was going forward in the rear , Tom and Mr. Moddle walked on , arm in arm , in the front , in a state of profound silence , which Tom at last broke : after thinking for a long time what he could say that should refer to an indifferent topic , in respect of which he might rely , with some degree of certainty , on Mr. Moddle 's bosom being unruffled . 
`` I wonder , '' said Tom , `` that in these crowded streets , the foot-passengers are not oftener run over . '' 
Tom began -- `` That there are some men , '' interrupted Moddle , with a hollow laugh , `` who ca n't get run over . 
said Augustus , marking Tom 's astonishment . 
`` Upon my word and honour , '' thought Tom , `` this young gentleman is in a state of mind , which is very serious indeed ! '' 
Abandoning all idea of conversation , he did not venture to say another word ; but he was careful to keep a tight hold upon Augustus 's arm , lest he should fly into the road ; and making another , and a more successful attempt , should get up a private little Juggernaut before the eyes of his betrothed . 
Tom was so afraid of his committing this rash act , that he had scarcely ever experienced such a mental relief as when they arrived in safety at Mrs. Jonas Chuzzlewit 's house . 
For Tom halted , irresolutely , at the door . 
`` I am doubtful whether I should be welcome , '' replied Tom , `` or , I ought rather to say , I have no doubt about it . 
returned Miss Pecksniff , speaking apart to Tom . 
`` He is not at home , I am certain ; I know he is not ; and Merry has n't the least idea that you ever -- '' `` No , '' interrupted Tom . 
Tom still hesitated ; for he felt that he was in an awkward position . 
But the ecstasies of Mrs. Gamp were sufficient to have furnished forth a score of young lovers ; and they were chiefly awakened by the sight of Tom Pinch and his sister . 
As she took her seat upon a low chair by the old man 's side , and put herself within the reach of his hand , she looked up once at Tom . 
It was a sad look that she cast upon him , though there was a faint smile trembling on her face . 
It was a speaking look , and Tom knew what it said . 
`` You 're a wearing old soul , and that 's the sacred truth , '' said Mrs. Gamp , contemplating him from a little distance with anything but favour , as he continued to mutter to himself . 
Tom felt this change in her so much , and was so glad to see how tenderly Ruth dealt with her , and how she knew and answered to it , that he had not the heart to make any movement towards their departure , although he had long since given utterance to all he came to say . 
The old clerk , subsiding into his usual state , remained profoundly silent , while the rest of the little assembly were thus occupied , intent upon the dreams , whatever they might be , which hardly seemed to stir the surface of his sluggish thoughts , The bent of these dull fancies combining probably with the silent feasting that was going on about him , and some struggling recollection of the last approach to revelry he had witnessed , suggested a strange question to his mind . 
He looked round upon a sudden , and said , `` Who 's lying dead upstairs ? '' 
At first he gazed angrily upon her , as upon a stranger who endeavoured to deceive him ; but , peering into her face , and seeing that it was indeed she , he shook his head in sorrowful compassion . 
She made a sign to them not to speak to him , which indeed they had little inclination to do ; and remained silent herself . 
`` In the country , '' she replied . 
The old man gazed at her as if he doubted what she said , or had not heard her ; and , rising from his chair , walked across the room and upstairs , whispering as he went , `` Foul play ! '' 
As this excellent woman had been formally entrusted with the care of Mr. Chuffey on a previous occasion , neither Mrs. Jonas nor anybody else had the resolution to interfere directly with her mode of treatment : though all present -LRB- Tom Pinch and his sister especially -RRB- appeared to be disposed to differ from her views . 
cried Tom . 
Her face and manner experienced something so widely different from humility , that Tom could not help understanding and despising the base motives that were working in her breast . 
He turned away , and said to Ruth , that it was time for them to go . 
`` I will write to your husband , '' said Tom to Merry , `` and explain to him , as I would have done if I had met him here , that if he has sustained any inconvenience through my means , it is not my fault : a postman not being more innocent of the news he brings than I was when I handed him that letter . '' 
Tom stopped , and looked at Merry . 
`` I had better not meet him on the stairs , perhaps , '' said Tom , drawing his sister 's arm through his , and coming back a step or two . 
He had scarcely said it , when the door opened , and Jonas entered . 
All this time , Jonas had seen nothing of Tom and his sister ; for they were almost behind the door when he opened it , and he had sat down with his back towards them , and had purposely kept his eyes upon the opposite side of the street during his altercation with Miss Pecksniff , in order that his seeming carelessness might increase the exasperation of that wronged young damsel . 
His wife now faltered out that Tom had been waiting to see him ; and Tom advanced . 
The instant he presented himself , Jonas leaped up from his chair , and swearing a great oath , caught it in his grasp , as if he would have felled Tom to the ground with it . 
As he most unquestionably would have done , but that his very passion and surprise made him irresolute , and gave Tom , in his calmness , an opportunity of being heard . 
`` You have no cause to be violent , sir , '' said Tom . 
He held the door open ; and stamping his foot upon the ground , motioned Tom away . 
`` As you can not suppose , '' said Tom , `` that I am here , with any view of conciliating you or pleasing myself , I am quite indifferent to your reception of me , or your dismissal of me . 
`` Tut , tut , '' said Tom , `` you need n't waste foul words or idle threats . 
Tom , nevertheless , persisting in his intention , and opening his lips to speak again , Jonas set upon him like a savage ; and in the quickness and ferocity of his attack would have surely done him some grievous injury , defenceless as he was , and embarrassed by having his frightened sister clinging to his arm , if Merry had not run between them , crying to Tom for the love of Heaven to leave the house . 
The agony of this poor creature , the terror of his sister , the impossibility of making himself audible , and the equal impossibility of bearing up against Mrs. Gamp , who threw herself upon him like a feather-bed , and forced him backwards down the stairs by the mere oppression of her dead-weight , prevailed . 
Tom shook the dust of that house off his feet , without having mentioned Nadgett 's name . 
If the name could have passed his lips ; if Jonas , in the insolence of his vile nature , had never roused him to do that old act of manliness , for which -LRB- and not for his last offence -RRB- he hated him with such malignity ; if Jonas could have learned , as then he could and would have learned , through Tom 's means , what unsuspected spy there was upon him ; he would have been saved from the commission of a Guilty Deed , then drawing on towards its black accomplishment . 
But the fatality was of his own working ; the pit was of his own digging ; the gloom that gathered round him , was the shadow of his own life . 
His wife had closed the door , and thrown herself before it , on the ground , upon her knees . 
She held up her hands to him now , and besought him not to be harsh with her , for she had interposed in fear of bloodshed . 
Tom Pinch and Ruth were sitting at their early breakfast , with the window open , and a row of the freshest little plants arranged before it on the inside , by Ruth 's own hands ; and Ruth had fastened a sprig of geranium in Tom 's button-hole , to make him very smart and summer-like for the day -LRB- it was obliged to be fastened in , or that dear old Tom was certain to lose it -RRB- ; and people were crying flowers up and down the street ; and a blundering bee , who had got himself in between the two sashes of the window , was bruising his head against the glass , endeavouring to force himself out into the fine morning , and considering himself enchanted because he could n't do it ; and the morning was as fine a morning as ever was seen ; and the fragrant air was kissing Ruth and rustling about Tom , as if it said , `` How are you , my dears : I came all this way on purpose to salute you ; '' and it was one of those glad times when we form , or ought to form , the wish that every one on earth were able to be happy , and catching glimpses of the summer of the heart , to feel the beauty of the summer of the year . 
For little Ruth had now two pupils to attend , each three times a week , and each two hours at a time ; and besides this , she had painted some screens and card-racks , and , unknown to Tom -LRB- was there ever anything so delightful ! -RRB- 
And the mistress had not only bought them , but had ordered more ; and that very morning Ruth had made confession of these facts to Tom , and had handed him the money in a little purse she had worked expressly for the purpose . 
They had been in a flutter about this , and perhaps had shed a happy tear or two for anything the history knows to the contrary ; but it was all over now ; and a brighter face than Tom 's , or a brighter face than Ruth 's , the bright sun had not looked on since he went to bed last night . 
`` My dear girl , '' said Tom , coming so abruptly on the subject , that he interrupted himself in the act of cutting a slice of bread , and left the knife sticking in the loaf , `` what a queer fellow our landlord is ! 
Is it not , Tom ! '' 
`` Really , '' said Tom , `` I hope it is only strange . 
I must have an explanation with him , '' said Tom , shaking his head as if this were a most tremendous threat , `` when I can catch him ! '' 
A short double knock at the door put Tom 's menacing looks to flight , and awakened an expression of surprise instead . 
said Tom . 
`` I -- I -- do n't think it was his knock , Tom , '' observed his little sister . 
said Tom . 
But when the person came in , Tom Pinch , instead of saying `` Did you wish to speak with me , sir ? '' 
or addressing him in any such distant terms ; cried out , `` Good gracious Heaven ! '' 
and seized him by both hands , with the liveliest manifestations of astonishment and pleasure . 
The visitor was not less moved than Tom himself , and they shook hands a great many times , without another word being spoken on either side . 
Tom was the first to find his voice . 
said Tom , running towards the door , and shaking hands with somebody else . 
cried Tom , patting him tenderly on the back . 
Tom was in such a state of excitement that he could n't keep himself still for a moment , but was constantly running between Mark and Martin , shaking hands with them alternately , and presenting them over and over again to his sister . 
`` I remember the day we parted , Martin , as well as if it were yesterday , '' said Tom . 
And then Tom -LRB- as John Westlock had done on his arrival -RRB- ran off to the loaf to cut some bread and butter for them ; and before he had spread a single slice , remembered something else , and came running back again to tell it ; and then he shook hands with them again ; and then he introduced his sister again ; and then he did everything he had done already all over again ; and nothing Tom could do , and nothing Tom could say , was half sufficient to express his joy at their safe return . 
`` Sit down , and take your breakfast , Mark , '' said Tom . 
`` He takes his own way , Tom . 
You would excuse him , Miss Pinch , if you knew his value . '' 
`` She know it , bless you ! '' 
said Tom . 
`` I have told her all about Mark Tapley . 
`` Yes , Tom . '' 
`` The best of Mark Tapley is only known to one man , Tom ; and but for Mark he would hardly be alive to tell it . '' 
said Tom Pinch , energetically : `` If you do n't sit down this minute , I 'll swear at you ! '' 
asked Tom , with a smile . 
In the meanwhile , Martin drew his chair a little nearer to Tom and his sister , and related to them what had passed at Mr. Pecksniff 's house ; adding in few words a general summary of the distresses and disappointments he had undergone since he left England . 
`` For your faithful stewardship in the trust I left with you , Tom , '' he said , `` and for all your goodness and disinterestedness , I can never thank you enough . 
When I add Mary 's thanks to mine -- '' Ah , Tom ! 
The blood retreated from his cheeks , and came rushing back , so violently , that it was pain to feel it ; ease though , ease to the aching of his wounded heart . 
`` When I add Mary 's thanks to mine , '' said Martin , `` I have made the only poor acknowledgment it is in our power to offer ; but if you knew how much we feel , Tom , you would set some store by it , I am sure . '' 
And if they had known how much Tom felt -- but that no human creature ever knew -- they would have set some store by him . 
Tom changed the topic of discourse . 
He was sorry he could not pursue it , as it gave Martin pleasure ; but he was unable , at that moment . 
No drop of envy or bitterness was in his soul ; but he could not master the firm utterance of her name . 
`` No longer to make your fortune , Tom , '' said Martin , `` but to try to live . 
I tried that once in London , Tom ; and failed . 
If you will give me the benefit of your advice and friendly counsel , I may succeed better under your guidance ; I will do anything , Tom ; anything ; to gain a livelihood by my own exertions . 
High-hearted , noble Tom ! 
Sorry to find the pride of his old companion humbled , and to hear him speaking in this altered strain ; at once , at once , he drove from his breast the inability to contend with its deep emotions , and spoke out bravely . 
cried Tom . 
I am a man of occupation now , you know , '' said Tom , with his pleasantest smile ; `` and have no time to lose . 
But I may be a little changed , '' said Martin , `` since you knew me pretty well , Tom . '' 
exclaimed Tom . 
Tom laughed , and taking leave of his sister , hurried Mark and Martin out into the street , and away to John Westlock 's by the nearest road ; for his hour of business was very near at hand , and he prided himself on always being exact to his time . 
John Westlock was at home , but , strange to say , was rather embarrassed to see them ; and when Tom was about to go into the room where he was breakfasting , said he had a stranger there . 
But Martin felt that he did not inspire John Westlock with any unusual interest ; and twice or thrice observed that he looked at Tom Pinch doubtfully ; not to say compassionately . 
He thought , and blushed to think , that he knew the cause of this . 
`` I apprehend you are engaged , '' said Martin , when Tom had announced the purport of their visit . 
`` And in the meantime , '' said Tom , `` I must really take myself off , without any further ceremony . '' 
What is your business , Tom ? '' 
It was Tom 's turn to be embarrassed , now : but he plainly said , after a little hesitation : `` Why , I am not at liberty to say what it is , Martin : though I hope soon to be in a condition to do so , and am aware of no other reason to prevent my doing so now , than the request of my employer . 
It 's an awkward position to be placed in , '' said Tom , with an uneasy sense of seeming to doubt his friend , `` as I feel every day ; but I really can not help it , can I , John ? '' 
John Westlock replied in the negative ; and Martin , expressing himself perfectly satisfied , begged them not to say another word : though he could not help wondering very much , what curious office Tom held , and why he was so secret , and embarrassed , and unlike himself , in reference to it . 
Nor could he help reverting to it , in his own mind , several times after Tom went away , which he did as soon as this conversation was ended ; taking Mr. Tapley with him , who , as he laughingly said , might accompany him as far as Fleet-street , without injury . 
asked Tom , as they walked on together . 
cried Tom . 
You know what I said , '' replied Tom , laughing , `` as well as I do ! '' 
said Tom . 
Tom stopping in the street to look at him , Mr. Tapley for a moment presented to his view , an utterly stolid and expressionless face : a perfect dead wall of countenance . 
cried Tom . 
To be sure she is , '' cried Tom . 
`` No doubt , '' replied Tom . 
cried Tom . 
`` If your philosophy , Mark , '' said Tom , who laughed heartily at this speech , `` be the oddest I ever heard of , it is not the least wise . 
said Tom , stopping at the Temple Gate . 
Good-bye , Mr. Pinch , '' he added , by way of soliloquy , as he stood looking after him . 
While these confidences were interchanged between Tom Pinch and Mark , Martin and John Westlock were very differently engaged . 
They were no sooner left alone together than Martin said , with an effort he could not disguise : `` Mr. Westlock , we have met only once before , but you have known Tom a long while , and that seems to render you familiar to me . 
I see with pain that you so far mistrust me that you think me likely to impose on Tom 's regardlessness of himself , or on his kind nature , or some of his good qualities . '' 
It is much easier to slight than to appreciate Tom Pinch . '' 
`` I grew into the knowledge of Tom , '' he pursued , `` as I grew towards manhood ; and I have learned to love him as something infinitely better than myself . 
I did not think that you understood him when we met before . 
I did not think that you greatly cared to understand him . 
`` I originated it , '' said Martin ; `` and so far from having any complaint to make against you , highly esteem the friendship you entertain for Tom , and the very many proofs you have given him of it . 
Why should I endeavour to conceal from you : '' he coloured deeply though : `` that I neither understood him nor cared to understand him when I was his companion ; and that I am very truly sorry for it now ! '' 
With this preface , he related all the circumstances connected with his having presided over the illness and slow recovery of the patient at the Bull ; and tacked on to the skirts of that narrative Tom 's own account of the business on the wharf . 
Accompanying him into the next room , Martin found there a third person ; no doubt the stranger of whom his host had spoken when Tom Pinch introduced him . 
He was a young man ; with deep black hair and eyes . 
He was gaunt and pale ; and evidently had not long recovered from a severe illness . 
He stood as Martin entered , but sat again at John 's desire . 
He has had a very hard time of it , ever since he began to recover ; but as you see he is now doing well . '' 
`` The short statement that I wish you to hear from his own lips , Mr. Chuzzlewit , '' John pursued : looking attentively at him , and not at Martin : `` he made to me for the first time yesterday , and repeated to me this morning , without the least variation of any essential particular . 
I have already told you that he informed me before he was removed from the Inn , that he had a secret to disclose to me which lay heavy on his mind . 
But fluctuating between sickness and health ; and between his desire to relieve himself of it , and his dread of involving himself by revealing it ; he has , until yesterday , avoided the disclosure . 
I never pressed him for it -LRB- having no idea of its weight or import , or of my right to do so -RRB- , until within a few days past ; when understanding from him , on his own voluntary avowal , in a letter from the country , that it related to a person whose name was Jonas Chuzzlewit ; and thinking that it might throw some light on that little mystery which made Tom anxious now and then ; I urged the point upon him , and heard his statement as you will now , from his own lips . 
It is due to him to say , that in the apprehension of death , he committed it to writing sometime since , and folded it in a sealed paper , addressed to me ; which he could not resolve , however , to place of his own act in my hands . 
He has the paper in his breast , I believe , at this moment . '' 
When he at length had the whole narrative clearly before him , John Westlock went on to point out the great probability of the guilt of Jonas being known to other people , who traded in it for their own benefit , and who were by such means able to exert that control over him which Tom Pinch had accidentally witnessed , and unconsciously assisted . 
The only person before them was Tom 's landlord . 
They had no right to question Tom 's landlord , even if they could find him , which , according to Tom 's account , it would not be easy to do . 
And granting that they did question him , and he answered -LRB- which was taking a good deal for granted -RRB- , he had only to say , with reference to the adventure on the wharf , that he had been sent from such and such a place to summon Jonas back on urgent business , and there was an end of it . 
Mr. Pecksniff had been there at the time ; as Tom immediately remembered , when he came back in the afternoon , and shared their counsels ; and there had been no secrecy about it . 
It was in this position of affairs that Tom 's account of the strange behaviour of the decayed clerk , upon the night of the tea-party , became of great moment , and finally convinced them that to arrive at a more accurate knowledge of the workings of that old man 's mind and memory , would be to take a most important stride in their pursuit of the truth . 
Tom said his young mistress clearly . 
But Tom and all of them shrunk from the thought of entrapping her , and making her the innocent means of bringing retribution on her cruel husband . 
In a very different way , Tom said , he was influenced by Mrs. Gamp , the nurse : who had once had the controul of him as he understood , for some time . 
Tom returned home , that he might lose no opportunity of having an interview with Nadgett , by being absent in the event of his reappearance . 
It was the next evening ; and Tom and his sister were sitting together before tea , talking , in their usual quiet way , about a great many things , but not at all about Lewsome 's story or anything connected with it ; for John Westlock -- really John , for so young a man , was one of the most considerate fellows in the world -- had particularly advised Tom not to mention it to his sister just yet , in case it should disquiet her . 
`` And I would n't , Tom , '' he said , with a little hesitation , `` I would n't have a shadow on her happy face , or an uneasy thought in her gentle heart , for all the wealth and honours of the universe ! '' 
If he had been her father , Tom said , he could not have taken a greater interest in her . 
But although Tom and his sister were extremely conversational , they were less lively , and less cheerful , than usual . 
Tom had no idea that this originated with Ruth , but took it for granted that he was rather dull himself . 
In truth he was ; for the lightest cloud upon the Heaven of her quiet mind , cast its shadow upon Tom . 
When Tom was looking in another direction , her bright eyes , stealing on towards his face , would sparkle still more brightly than their custom was , and then grow dim . 
When Tom was silent , looking out upon the summer weather , she would sometimes make a hasty movement , as if she were about to throw herself upon his neck ; then check the impulse , and when he looked round , show a laughing face , and speak to him very merrily . 
When she had anything to give Tom , or had any excuse for coming near him , she would flutter about him , and lay her little bashful hand upon his shoulder , and not be willing to withdraw it ; and would show by all such means that there was something on her heart which in her great love she longed to say to him , but had not the courage to utter . 
So they were sitting , she with her work before her , but not working , and Tom with his book beside him , but not reading , when Martin knocked at the door . 
Anticipating who it was , Tom went to open it ; and he and Martin came back into the room together . 
Tom looked surprised , for in answer to his cordial greeting Martin had hardly spoken a word . 
Ruth also saw that there was something strange in the manner of their visitor , and raised her eyes inquiringly to Tom 's face , as if she were seeking an explanation there . 
Tom shook his head , and made the same mute appeal to Martin . 
Tom anxiously inquired . 
`` Oh Tom ! '' 
My -- '' Tom could get no further . 
`` How could you Tom , how could you suffer me to thank you so fervently and sincerely for your friendship ; and not tell me , like a man , that you had deserted me ! 
Was it true , Tom ! 
Oh Tom ! '' 
His tone was one of such strong injury and yet of so much grief for the loss of a friend he had trusted in ; it expressed such high past love for Tom , and so much sorrow and compassion for his supposed unworthiness ; that Tom , for a moment , put his hand before his face , and had no more power of justifying himself , than if he had been a monster of deceit and falsehood . 
And I swear , little as I showed it ; little as I know I showed it ; that when I had the least consideration for you , Tom , I loved you like a brother . '' 
Tom was composed by this time , and might have been the Spirit of Truth , in a homely dress -- it very often wears a homely dress , thank God ! 
`` At least , '' said Tom , `` if I had always been what you charge me with being now , and had never had a place in your regard , but had always been despised by you , and had always deserved it , you would tell me in what you have found me to be treacherous ; and on what grounds you proceed . 
`` No , '' said Tom , calmly . 
`` No , '' replied Tom , calmly . 
Whoever has perverted them to such a purpose , has wronged me , almost as cruelly ; '' his calmness rather failed him here ; `` as you have done . '' 
`` I came here , '' said Martin ; `` and I appeal to your good sister to hear me -- '' `` Not to her , '' interrupted Tom . 
`` I believe it , Tom ! '' 
`` No , no , '' cried Tom , `` of course not : I said so . 
You could not know in what bitterness of regret , unless you knew how often I have thought of Tom ; how long in almost hopeless circumstances , I have looked forward to the better estimation of his friendship ; and how stedfastly I have believed and trusted in him . '' 
`` Tut , tut , '' said Tom , stopping her as she was about to speak . 
`` He is mistaken . 
He is deceived . 
He is sure to be set right at last . '' 
said Tom . 
Martin paused , and then said in a still milder voice : `` You have chosen for yourself , Tom , and will be relieved by our parting . 
There is no anger on my side -- '' `` There is none on mine , '' said Tom . 
But those who have not the courage to resist such temptations , should have the courage to avow that they have yielded to them ; and I do blame you for this , Tom : that you received me with a show of warmth , encouraged me to be frank and plain-spoken , tempted me to confide in you , and professed that you were able to be mine ; when you had sold yourself to others . 
I do not believe , '' said Martin , with great emotion : `` hear me say it from my heart ; I can not believe , Tom , now that I am standing face to face with you , that it would have been in your nature to do me any serious harm , even though I had not discovered , by chance , in whose employment you were . 
`` Be just , '' said Tom ; who had not removed his mild gaze from Martin 's face since the commencement of this last address ; `` be just even in your injustice , Martin . 
No , Tom . 
All good go with you , Tom ! 
said Tom . 
`` I -- you -- you have chosen for yourself , Tom ! 
Tom led his little sister to her chair , and sat down in his own . 
He took his book , and read , or seemed to read . 
Presently he said aloud : turning a leaf as he spoke : `` He will be very sorry for this . '' 
And a tear stole down his face , and dropped upon the page . 
Ruth nestled down beside him on her knees , and clasped her arms about his neck . 
`` No Tom ! 
Dear Tom ! '' 
`` I am quite -- comforted , '' said Tom . 
`` No no , '' said Tom . 
`` He believes it . 
More closely yet , she nestled down about him ; and wept as if her heart would break . 
Do n't , '' said Tom . 
`` Oh Tom , dear Tom , I know your secret heart . 
You love her Tom , so dearly ! '' 
Tom made a motion with his hand as if he would have put his sister hurriedly away ; but it clasped upon hers , and all his little history was written in the action . 
Oh Tom , dear Tom , loved as no other brother can be , will this be set right too ! 
Will it Tom ! 
And still she hid her face from Tom , and clasped him round the neck , and wept for him , and poured out all her woman 's heart and soul in the relief and pain of this disclosure . 
It was not very long before she and Tom were sitting side by side , and she was looking with an earnest quietness in Tom 's face . 
Then Tom spoke to her thus : cheerily , though gravely . 
Tom 's eyes glistened when he spoke of her affection ; and he kissed her on the cheek . 
`` My dear girl , '' said Tom : `` with whatever feeling I regard her ; '' they seemed to avoid the name by mutual consent ; `` I have long ago -- I am sure I may say from the very first -- looked upon it as a dream . 
She gave Tom such a significant little look , that he was obliged to take it for an answer whether he would or no ; and to go on . 
`` Yes , '' rejoined Tom , `` but that might be setting it wrong , instead of right . 
Do you think , '' said Tom , with a grave smile , `` that even if she had never seen him , it is very likely she would have fallen in love with Me ? '' 
`` Why not , dear Tom ? '' 
Tom shook his head , and smiled again . 
`` You think of me , Ruth , '' said Tom , `` and it is very natural that you should , as if I were a character in a book ; and you make it a sort of poetical justice that I should , by some impossible means or other , come , at last , to marry the person I love . 
`` No , Tom . 
Tom thought of disputing the position . 
But it would have been mere folly , and he gave it up . 
`` My dear , '' said Tom , `` I will repay your affection with the Truth , and all the Truth . 
No , '' said Tom , stoutly . 
She could not speak to him , but she loved him , as he well deserved . 
Even as he deserved , she loved him . 
`` She will open Martin 's eyes , '' said Tom , with a glow of pride , `` and that -LRB- which is indeed wrong -RRB- will be set right . 
I do n't believe I ever could have told it you , '' said Tom , with a smile , `` but how glad I am to think you have found it out ! '' 
Tom told her all so freely , and so simply , and was so desirous to return her tenderness with his fullest confidence , that they prolonged it far beyond their usual hour , and sat up late when they came home . 
And when they parted for the night there was such a tranquil , beautiful expression in Tom 's face , that she could not bear to shut it out , but going back on tip-toe to his chamber-door , looked in , and stood there till he saw her , and then embracing him again , withdrew . 
And in her prayers , and in her sleep -- good times to be remembered with such fervor , Tom ! 
-- his name was uppermost . 
When he was left alone , Tom pondered very much on this discovery of her 's , and greatly wondered what had led her to it . 
`` Because , '' thought Tom , `` I have been so very careful . 
said Tom . 
Tom could not get it out of his head . 
There it was , when his head was on his pillow . 
thought Tom , recalling all the little incidents and circumstances ; `` and how her face flushed ! 
Tom little thought how natural it was . 
Tom little knew that there was that in Ruth 's own heart , but newly set there , which had helped her to the reading of his mystery . 
Ah Tom ! 
He did n't understand the whispers of the Temple Fountain , though he passed it every day . 
Her early tap at Tom 's door , and her light foot outside , would have been music to him though she had not spoken . 
But she said it was the brightest morning ever seen ; and so it was ; and if it had been otherwise , she would have made it so to Tom . 
She was ready with his neat breakfast when he went down stairs , and had her bonnet ready for the early walk , and was so full of news , that Tom was lost in wonder . 
She might have been up all night , collecting it for his entertainment . 
There was Mr. Nadgett not come home yet , and there was bread down a penny a loaf , and there was twice as much strength in this tea as in the last , and the milkwoman 's husband had come out of the hospital cured , and the curly-headed child over the way had been lost all yesterday , and she was going to make all sorts of preserves in a desperate hurry , and there happened to be a saucepan in the house which was the very saucepan for the purpose ; and she knew all about the last book Tom had brought home , all through , though it was a teazer to read ; and she had so much to tell him that she had finished breakfast first . 
Then she had her little bonnet on , and the tea and sugar locked up , and the keys in her reticule , and the flower , as usual , in Tom 's coat , and was in all respects quite ready to accompany him , before Tom knew she had begun to prepare . 
And in short , as Tom said , with a confidence in his own assertion which amounted to a defiance of the public in general , there never was such a little woman . 
She made Tom talkative . 
She put such enticing questions to him ; about books , and about dates of churches , and about organs , and about the Temple , and about all kinds of things . 
Indeed , she lightened the way -LRB- and Tom 's heart with it -RRB- to that degree , that the Temple looked quite blank and solitary when he parted from her at the gate . 
`` No Mr. Fips 's friend to-day , I suppose , '' thought Tom , as he ascended the stairs . 
Not yet , at any rate , for the door was closed as usual , and Tom opened it with his key . 
He had got the books into perfect order now , and had mended the torn leaves , and pasted up the broken backs , and substituted neat labels for the worn-out letterings . 
It looked a different place , it was so orderly and neat : Tom felt some pride in contemplating the change he had wrought , though there was no one to approve or disapprove of it . 
He was at present occupied in making a fair copy of his draught of the catalogue ; on which , as there was no hurry , he was painfully concentrating all the ingenious and laborious neatness he had ever expended on map or plan in Mr. Pecksniff 's workroom . 
It was a very marvel of a catalogue ; for Tom sometimes thought he was really getting his money too easily , and he had determined within himself that this document should take a little of his superfluous leisure out of him . 
So , with pens and ruler , and compasses and india-rubber , and pencil , and black ink , and red ink , Tom worked away all the morning . 
He thought a good deal about Martin and their interview of yesterday , and would have been far easier in his mind if he could have resolved to confide it to his friend John , and to have taken his opinion on the subject . 
But besides that he knew what John 's boiling indignation would be , he bethought himself that he was helping Martin now in a matter of great moment , and that to deprive the latter of his assistance at such a crisis of affairs , would be to inflict a serious injury upon him . 
`` So I 'll keep it to myself , '' said Tom , with a sigh . 
And to work he went again , more assiduously than ever , with the pens , and the ruler , and the india-rubber , and the pencil , and the black ink , and the red ink , that he might forget it . 
He had laboured away for another hour or more , when he heard a footstep in the entry , down below . 
said Tom , looking towards the door , `` time was , not long ago either , when that would have set me wondering and expecting . 
`` Thirty-six , thirty-seven , thirty-eight , '' said Tom , counting . 
As the tread advanced , Tom looked impatiently and eagerly towards it . 
When a figure came upon the landing , and arriving in the doorway , stopped and gazed at him , he rose up from his chair , and half believed he saw a spirit . 
No , not the same , for this old man , though old , was strong , and leaned upon his stick with a vigorous hand , while with the other he signed to Tom to make no noise . 
One glance at the resolute face , the watchful eye , the vigorous hand upon the staff , the triumphed purpose in the figure , and such a light broke in on Tom as blinded him . 
`` I was told that my employer would arrive soon , '' said Tom ; `` but -- '' `` I know . 
He had by this time come up to Tom , and now he seized his hand . 
He stopped , even in the passion of his speech ; if that can be called passion which was so resolute and steady ; to press Tom 's hand again . 
Then he said , in great excitement : `` Close the door , close the door . 
The time now drawing on , '' said the old man , hurriedly : his eyes and whole face brightening as he spoke : `` will make amends for all . 
Tom did so ; hardly knowing yet whether he was awake , or in a dream . 
The night had now come , when the old clerk was to be delivered over to his keepers . 
In the midst of his guilty distractions , Jonas had not forgotten it . 
Tom ! 
Stunned , as he had been at first by the intelligence conveyed to him through Tom Pinch and John Westlock , of the supposed manner of his brother 's death ; overwhelmed as he was by the subsequent narratives of Chuffey and Nadgett , and the forging of that chain of circumstances ending in the death of Jonas , of which catastrophe he was immediately informed ; scattered as his purposes and hopes were for the moment , by the crowding in of all these incidents between him and his end ; still their very intensity and the tumult of their assemblage nerved him to the rapid and unyielding execution of his scheme . 
He had sent for John Westlock immediately on his arrival ; and John , under the conduct of Tom Pinch , had waited on him . 
Tom he would not allow to be employed in anything , lest he should be wrongfully suspected ; but he was a party to all their proceedings , and was with them until late at night -- until after they knew of the death of Jonas ; when he went home to tell all these wonders to little Ruth , and to prepare her for accompanying him to the Temple in the morning , agreeably to Mr. Chuzzlewit 's particular injunction . 
Mark waited at the door for Tom Pinch and his sister , who were coming up the stairs . 
The old man received Mary no less tenderly than he had received Tom Pinch 's sister . 
And then he told them how , resolved to probe this Pecksniff , and to prove the constancy and truth of Mary -LRB- to himself no less than Martin -RRB- , he had conceived and entered on his plan ; and how , beneath her gentleness and patience , he had softened more and more ; still more and more beneath the goodness and simplicity , the honour and the manly faith of Tom . 
And when he spoke of Tom , he said God bless him ! 
and the tears were in his eyes ; for he said that Tom , mistrusted and disliked by him at first , had come like summer rain upon his heart ; and had disposed it to believe in better things . 
And peace of mind , deep , tranquil peace of mind , was in Tom 's heart . 
The old man then related how nobly Mr. Pecksniff had performed the duty in which he stood indebted to society , in the matter of Tom 's dismissal ; and how , having often heard disparagement of Mr. Westlock from Pecksniffian lips , and knowing him to be a friend to Tom , he had used , through his confidential agent and solicitor , that little artifice which had kept him in readiness to receive his unknown friend in London . 
And he called on Mr. Pecksniff -LRB- by the name of Scoundrel -RRB- to remember that there again he had not trapped him to do evil , but that he had done it of his own free will and agency ; nay , that he had cautioned him against it . 
But it was good in him that even then , in his high fortune and happiness , with her lips nearly printed on his own , and her proud young beauty in his close embrace , he had a hand still left to stretch out to Tom Pinch . 
`` Oh , Tom ! 
Dear Tom ! 
cried Tom . 
There is not a blessing on earth that Tom did not wish them . 
There is not a blessing on earth that Tom would not have bestowed upon them , if he could . 
Do I not know , Sir ; '' here he became exceedingly plaintive , and was observed to glance towards Tom Pinch ; `` that my misfortunes bring this treatment on me ? 
The old man looked about him , with a smile , until his eyes rested on Tom Pinch 's sister ; when he smiled the more . 
I must see your lodgings in the meanwhile , Tom . '' 
Tom was quite delighted . 
`` But I am afraid I must take Tom a little out of the way , on business . 
When Tom and Mr. Chuzzlewit went off arm in arm a few minutes after them , the latter was still smiling : and really , for a gentleman of his habits , in rather a knowing manner . 
It was all very well for Tom and his sister to make appointments by the Fountain , but that was quite another affair . 
They talked of Tom , and all these changes , and the attachment Mr. Chuzzlewit had conceived for him , and the bright prospects he had in such a friend , and a great deal more to the same purpose . 
Tom had not come in . 
He sat down by her side , and very near her : very , very near her . 
Fresh from her full young heart they came to answer him . 
They soon began to talk of Tom again . 
I could never leave Tom . 
Leave Tom ! 
Leave Tom , dear ! 
If Tom and we be not inseparable , and Tom -LRB- God bless him -RRB- have not all honour and all love in our home , my little wife , may that home never be ! 
`` Tom will be so happy , and so proud , and glad , '' she said , clasping her little hands . 
I am sure he has never thought of such a thing . '' 
Of course John asked her immediately -- because you know they were in that foolish state when great allowances must be made -- when she had begun to think of such a thing , and this made a little diversion in their talk ; a charming diversion to them , but not so interesting to us ; at the end of which , they came back to Tom again . 
`` Ah , dear Tom ! '' 
Then she told him Tom 's great secret ; not exactly saying how she had found it out , but leaving him to understand it if he liked ; and John was sadly grieved to hear it , and was full of sympathy and sorrow . 
And then , in all the confidence of such a time , he told her how he had a capital opportunity of establishing himself in his old profession in the country ; and how he had been thinking , in the event of that happiness coming upon him which had actually come -- there was another slight diversion here -- how he had been thinking that it would afford occupation to Tom , and enable them to live together in the easiest manner , without any sense of dependence on Tom 's part ; and to be as happy as the day was long : and Ruth receiving this with joy , they went on catering for Tom to that extent that they had already purchased him a select library and built him an organ , on which he was performing with the greatest satisfaction : when they heard him knocking at the door . 
Though she longed to tell him what had happened , poor little Ruth was greatly agitated by his arrival ; the more so because she knew that Mr. Chuzzlewit was with him . 
He had hardly time to say thus much , and Ruth had hardly time to -- just to get a little farther off -- upon the sofa , when Tom and Mr. Chuzzlewit came in . 
Mr. Chuzzlewit came first , and Tom was a few seconds behind him . 
Now Ruth had hastily resolved that she would beckon Tom up stairs after a short time , and would tell him in his little bedroom . 
But when she saw his dear old face come in , her heart was so touched that she ran into his arms , and laid her head down on his breast , and sobbed out , `` Bless me , Tom ! 
Tom looked up , in surprise , and saw John Westlock close beside him , holding out his hand . 
cried Tom . 
`` Dear Tom , '' said his friend , `` give me your hand . 
We are brothers , Tom . '' 
Tom wrung it with all his force , embraced his sister fervently , and put her in John Westlock 's arms . 
I -- '' Tom could find no further utterance , but left the room ; and Ruth went after him . 
And when they came back , which they did by-and-by , she looked more beautiful , and Tom more good and true -LRB- if that were possible -RRB- than ever . 
And though Tom could not speak upon the subject even now : being yet too newly glad : he put both his hands in both of John 's with emphasis sufficient for the best speech ever spoken . 
I hope Tom and I lingered behind a discreet time . 
See what Tom and I purchased this morning , while you were dealing in exchange with that young merchant there . '' 
Tom could n't understand why I wanted two . 
What a shortsighted Tom ! 
He patted her upon the cheek , and said to Tom : `` I must play the part of father here , Tom , also . 
I may claim that much indulgence , '' he added , `` for I have gratified few fancies enough in my life tending to the happiness of others , Heaven knows ! '' 
Young Martin sat at the head of the table , and Tom Pinch at the foot ; and if there were a genial face at that board , it was Tom 's . 
They all took their tone from Tom . 
Everybody drank to him , everybody looked to him , everybody thought of him , everybody loved him . 
If he so much as laid down his knife and fork , somebody put out a hand to shake with him . 
Martin and Mary had taken him aside before dinner , and spoken to him so heartily of the time to come : laying such fervent stress upon the trust they had in his completion of their felicity , by his society and closest friendship : that Tom was positively moved to tears . 
He could n't bear it . 
His heart was full , he said , of happiness . 
Tom spoke the honest truth . 
Large as thy heart was , dear Tom Pinch , it had no room that day , for anything but happiness and sympathy ! 
And there was Fips , old Fips of Austin Friars , present at the dinner , and turning out to be the jolliest old dog that ever did violence to his convivial sentiments by shutting himself up in a dark office . 
said Fips , when he came in . 
And then he pounced on Tom , and told him that he wanted to relieve himself of all his old constraint : and in the first place shook him by one hand , and in the second place shook him by the other , and in the third place nudged him in the waistcoat , and in the fourth place , said , `` How are you ! '' 
and in a great many other place did a great many other things to shew his friendliness and joy . 
And he sang songs , did Fips ; and made speeches , did Fips ; and knocked off his wine pretty handsomely , did Fips ; and , in short , he was a perfect Trump , was Fips , in all respects . 
The happiness of stating all their little plans to Tom , and seeing his bright face grow brighter as they spoke ! 
When they reached home , Tom left John and his sister in the parlour , and went upstairs into his own room , under pretence of seeking a book . 
And Tom actually winked to himself , when he got upstairs : he thought it such a deep thing to have done . 
`` They like to be by themselves of course , '' said Tom ; `` and I came away so naturally , that I have no doubt they are expecting me , every moment , to return . 
But he had not sat reading very long , when he heard a tap at his door . 
Tom replied . 
`` Do n't leave us , Tom . 
`` My dear friend , '' said Tom , with a cheerful smile . 
`` Brother , Tom . 
`` My dear brother , '' said Tom ; `` there is no danger of my being melancholy . 
I think I can find my tongue to-night , John , '' he added , after a moment 's pause . 
`` Which money would , Tom , '' he returned . 
Who could know her , Tom , and not honour her . 
Who could feel the rapture that I feel to-day , and love as I love her , Tom ; without knowing something of her worth ! 
No , no , Tom . 
`` No , no , John , '' said Tom . 
And oh , the look , the glorious , half-proud , half-timid look she gave Tom , when her lover drew her to his side ! 
As much as to say , `` Yes indeed , Tom , he will do it . 
But then he has a right you know . 
Because I am fond of him , Tom . '' 
As to Tom , he was perfectly delighted . 
He could have sat and looked at them , just as they were , for hours . 
`` I have told Tom , love ; as we agreed ; that we are not going to permit him to run away , and that we can not possibly allow it . 
The loss of one person , and such a person as Tom , too , out of our small household of three , is not to be endured ; and so I have told him . 
Whether he is considerate , or whether he is only selfish , I do n't know . 
But he need n't be considerate , for he is not the least restraint upon us . 
Is he , dearest Ruth ? '' 
He really did not seem to be any particular restraint upon them . 
Was it folly in Tom to be so pleased by their remembrance of him , at such a time ? 
Was it folly in him to watch her window from the street , and rate its scantiest gleam of light above all diamonds ; folly in her to breathe his name upon her knees , and pour out her pure heart before that Being , from whom such hearts and such affections come ! 
`` Tom Pinch , '' said Martin , `` has faithfully related to me all that you desired him to convey ; at a time when he deemed it very improbable that he would ever have an opportunity of delivering your message . 
Ah Tom , dear Tom , old friend ! 
Thy head is prematurely grey , though Time has passed between thee and our old association , Tom . 
Thy life is tranquil , calm , and happy , Tom . 
Touch the notes lightly , Tom , as lightly as thou wilt , but never will thine hand fall half so lightly on that Instrument as on the head of thine old tyrant brought down very , very low ; and never will it make as hollow a response to any touch of thine , as he does always . 
For a drunken , begging , squalid-letter-writing man , called Pecksniff : with a shrewish daughter : haunts thee , Tom ; and when he makes appeals to thee for cash , reminds thee that he built thy fortunes better than his own ; and when he spends it , entertains the alehouse company , with tales of thine ingratitude and his munificence towards thee once upon a time ; and then he shews his elbows worn in holes , and puts his soleless shoes up , on a bench , and begs his auditors look there ; while thou art comfortably housed and clothed . 
All known to thee , and yet all borne with , Tom ! 
And there is one slight creature , Tom -- her child ; not Ruth 's -- whom thine eyes follow in the romp and dance : who , wondering sometimes to see thee look so thoughtful , runs to climb up on thy knee , and put her cheek to thine : who loves thee , Tom , above the rest , if that can be : and falling sick once , chose thee for her nurse : and never knew impatience , Tom , when Thou wert by her side . 
And coming from a garden , Tom : bestrewn with flowers by children 's hands : thy sister little Ruth , as light of foot and heart as in old days , sits down beside thee . 
The noble music , rolling round her in a cloud of melody , shuts out the grosser prospect of an earthly parting , and uplifts her , Tom , to Heaven ! 
