This dissention , however , was seemingly healed , by bringing in as President , my worshipful pupil , the honorable Middleton Flam , now our member of Congress , and by making Theodore one of the directors , besides giving him the law business of the bank . 
I have heard him say that he thought as badly as a man could think , of the groundsfor starting the Bank , and still worse of the menwho started it ; -- which , certainly , was a very rash expression , considering that our congressman , the Hon. Middleton Flam , was President and one of the first patrons of the institution , and that such a man as Nicodemus Handy was Cashier ; to say nothing of Theodore Fog , whose habits we are willing to confess , might , in the estimation of some men , give some little color to my worthy friend 's vituperation . 
Flam will do any thing we say to let you in . 
By the by , he got us the deposites . 
Flam 's a man of influence -- but whether on the whole he will make us the best President we could have procured , is perhaps somewhat apocryphal . '' 
But there 's one thing , Mr. Grant , I must not forget to remark -- the Secretary , in fact , makes it a sort of sine qua non -- you must come out a genuine -- declare yourself a Whole Hog -- and go for Flam in the fall elections . 
The long and the short is , without being mealy-mouthed , we must prefer the old Hero 's friends ; -- but , after all , that 's a small matter : -- be a Democrat , and go for Flam ! '' 
`` Flam and the immutable principles of civil liberty ! '' 
`` Middleton Flam , the embodyment and personification of those deep and profound truths , based upon the eternal distinctions of the greatest good to the greatest number ! 
-- SOME ACCOUNT OF THE HON. MIDDLETON FLAM . 
Mr. Flam came home from congress after the end of the long session and found every thing prospering beyond his most sanguine expectations . 
As a proof how admirably matters were conducted by Mr. Handy , the Directors soon found no other reason to attend at the Board , than now and then , to hold a chat upon politics and smoke a cigar ; and the president , the Honorable Middleton Flam , having his October election on hand , was so thoroughly convinced of Nicodemus 's ability that I do not believe he went into the Bank more than half a dozen times during the whole season . 
The new banking house was commenced early in the summer and has been finished of very beautiful granite , being in its front , if I am rightly informed by Mr. Handy , an exact miniature copy of the Tomb of Osymandias : it is situated on Flam street , the first after you leave the Basin , going northward . 
But the directors , partly aware of their own knowledge , how valuable was his influence with the Secretary , and partly persuaded thereof by the Cashier , established , with a liberality which Mr. Handy remarked at the time was exceedingly gentlemanlike , his salary as President at three thousand dollars a year , -- which sum , Mr. Flam himself has , more than once in my hearing , averred upon his honor , he did not consider one cent too much . 
And indeed , I feel myself bound to express my concurrence in this opinion , when I reflect upon the weight of his character , the antiquity of his family , the preponderance of his strong democratic sentiments , and the expenses to which , as President , he was exposed in looking after the interests of the bank , -- more especially in the journies to Washington , whereof I have heard him speak , for the purpose of explaining matters to the Secretary . 
And on this head , I would observe that the household of Mr. Flam is large . 
There is Mrs. Flam , the venerated consort of our representative -- a lady most honorably conducive to the multiplication of the strength and glory of this land : there is , likewise , Mr. Flam 's sister Janet , -- truly an honor to her sex for instructive discourse and exemplary life ; and there is Master Middleton , Junior , with his four sisters and three brothers , who may be all ranged into the semblance of a stepladder . 
Great is Mr. Flam 's parental tenderness towards this happy progeny -- the reduplication and retriplication , if I may so express it , of himself and their respectable mamma . 
A refinement of sensibility in Mr. Flam , which I might almost denominate fastidious , has also operated with him to require the education of his daughters to be conducted under his own roof . 
He would never hear , for one moment , any persuasion to trust them even at their earliest age , in the public school , -- considerately fearful lest they might form intimacies unbecoming the station to which he destined them in after life . 
This lady , among other things , teaches them music , and is aided in the arduous duties allotted to her , by a drawing master of acknowledged ability in water colors , and a very superior professor of dancing , who instructs them in the elegant accomplishment of waltzing and galloping , which , Mr. Flam says , is now-a-days held to be indispensable in the first Democratic circles at Washington , where it has always been his design to introduce the young ladies into high life . 
It will not be out of place here to mention that the worthy subject of this desultory memoir , my patron and former pupil , inherited a large fortune from his father , the late Judge Flam , who was especially honored by old John Adams , or as the better phrase is , the elder Adams , with an appointment to the bench on the night of the third of March Anno Domini 1801 : and I have often heard Mr. Middleton say that his father had up to the day of his lamented departure from this world , which melancholy event happened in the year of our Lord 1825 , the greatest respect for General Jackson ; which liking for the Old Hero descended to his son , along with the family estate , and serves satisfactorily to account for my former pupil 's ardent attachment to democratic principles , as in the sequel I shall make appear . 
I do not desire to conceal the fact that Judge Flam , and even Mr. Middleton himself , for some years after he came to man 's estate , were both reputed to belong to what was generally , at that time , denominated and known by the appellation of the Old Federal party , and what , in common parlance , has been sometimes scoffingly termed , The Black Cockade ; and that the Judge , who was always noted for being very stiff in his opinions , maintained his connection nominally with that party until the day of his death . 
I mention this not in derogation of Mr. Middleton our representative , but rather in the way of commendation , because I am by this fact the more strongly confirmed in my admiration of the greatness of his character , -- seeing that his conversion to Democracy is the pure result of reflection and conviction , which is more laudable , in my humble thinking , than to be a born veteran democrat , as I once heard a great man boast himself . 
It came -- in the language of my venerated friend Judge Flam , -- like the sound of a trumpet upon the ears of all of the Old Federalists . 
This letter of the last of the Romans , was published in the National Intelligencer , and I happened to be with Judge Flam when it first met his eye . 
-- Just at that moment , Middleton , his son , came into the parlor : he had been out shooting partridges . 
`` My dear Middleton , read that '' -- said the Judge . 
Middleton sat down and read it ; and then looked intently at his father , waiting to hear what he would say . 
`` Middleton my son , '' said he in a very deliberate and emphatic manner , `` There 's our man . 
Mr. Middleton took this advice of his venerable father greatly to heart . 
`` Up with Jackson , and down with Party -- '' said he after a long rumination -- `` good , excellent -- nothing can be better ! '' 
And several times that night , before he went to bed , he audibly uttered the same words as he walked backward and forward across the room . 
From this time Judge Flam wrote many letters to his friends , disclosing the views he had expressed to Middleton ; and by degrees the matter ripened and ripened , until things were so contrived as to bring about what Judge Flam used to smile and say , was `` a spontaneous , unpremeditated burst of popular feeling , '' in the nomination of the General . 
The Old Hero and Sage , we all know , was cheated out of his first election ; which circumstance greatly embittered his early friends , who , from that time -- Mr. Middleton amongst the rest -- took a very decided stand for Reform , Retrenchment , Economy and the Rights of the People . 
Hebrought theminto office , just to show that he was determined to carry out the doctrine of his letter ; and theywere loudest in their praise of himfor the sake of the old grudge , of which Judge Flam spoke to his son , and to indemnify their long suffering in the cause of the country , in the course of which they had , for so many years , been strangers to power . 
Indeed , Mr. Middleton Flam , our honorable representative , has more than once , in some of his later speeches before the people , contended , that although his father was attached to George Washington 's school of politics , which , as he remarked , naturally arose out of the prejudices created by the revolutionary war -- in which the old Judge had served as a soldier -- yet , that he , Middleton , never was truly an admirer of that gentleman 's theory of government or system of measures -- but , on the contrary , held them in marked disesteem , and from his earliest youth had a strong inclination towards that freedom from restraint , which , in man and boy , is the best test of the new democratic principle . 
Be that as it may , our distinguished member of Congress is now , by force of reflection and conviction , as pure , unadulterated , and as our people jocularly denote it , as patent a dyed-in-the-wool democrat as Theodore Fog himself , whose attachment to popular principles , habits and manners , and whose unalterable adhesion to the new democratic theory , are written in every line of his face and in every movement of his body : -- and so , Mr. Flam avers , is every one of his black cockade friends who have got an office . 
Nicodemus Handy has an attachment for Mr. Flam , which is truly fraternal . 
It goes so far as to prevent him from ever contradicting Mr. Middleton in any fact , or gainsaying him in any opinion -- although I did think at one time , when Nicodemus was thought to be rich , that he was a little bold in his sentiments on two or three matters wherein our member differed from him . 
Mr. Flam was diametrically opposed to him , and proved , I thought conclusively , that , according to the sound Quodlibetarian democratic principle , the General was altogether right in putting the act of congress aside and not allowing them to overset his plans by another vote of two-thirds ; `` for , '' -- he inquired with great force of argument , adopting the Socratic form -- `` what is Congress ? 
Mr. Handy has often said that Mr. Flam was the very best customer our bank had from the beginning . 
Acting , as he always did , upon the principle that our first care is due to those who are nearest to us , or , according to the adage , that Charity begins at Home , the president of the bank refused to borrow from any other institution , but determined exclusively to patronise his own . 
By these means Mr. Flam became the proprietor of a vast number of acres in that south-west country ; and as the Specie Circular was a most laudable contrivance of the old Hero 's , or of his frienbs -LRB- for it was always the same thing with him -- what his friends advised he was in the habit of putting out as his own -RRB- , to stop over-trading and speculating in the public lands , it occurred to our worthy representative that the less the public lands were sold , the more his and Mr. Kendall 's would come into the market at good prices ; and so , with a view to the benefit of Quodlibet , where he expected to invest the profits , he became a strong advocate of the circular . 
The other questions upon which I have found him to differ occasionally with Mr. Flam , shared pretty nearly the same fate as this . 
The Cashier ultimately fell into entire harmony of sentiment in all matters with the President ; though , as I have insinuated before , in the flood-tide of Mr. Handy 's fortune , when he began to be accounted a man of wealth , he was , in accordance with a principle of human nature founded upon the corrupting and debasing influence of riches , much more difficult to bring into perfect conformity of opinion with Mr. Flam , than in the ebb . 
Yet , I would here remark that , almost in the same degree that Mr. Handy yielded his assent to the doctrines of the honorable Middleton Flam , did the rank and file of our sturdy and independent democracy yield to Mr. Handy ; the whole party being kept in a harmonious agreement and accord by what Fog terms `` the electric diffusion of the democratic principle through the whole circle of hand-in-hand , unflinching , unwavering , uncorruptible , and power-frowning-down Yeomanry of the most virtuous and enlightened nation upon the terrestrial globe . '' 
FURTHER DISCOURSE RELATING TO THE HON. MIDDLETON FLAM . 
-- CORRECTION IN THE ORTHOGRAPHY OF HIS FAMILY SEAT . 
-- HIS RESPECT FOR THE PEOPLE . 
-- HIS LIBERALITY IN MONEY MATTERS -- AVERSION TO THE LAW REGARDING INTEREST -- DEMOCRATIC VIEW OF THAT QUESTION -- HIS ENCOURAGEMENT OF INDUSTRY AND THE WORKING PEOPLE -- INGENIOUS AND PROFOUND ILLUSTRATION OF THE GBEAT DEMOCRATIC PRINCIPLE . 
Holding , as I do , our democratic leader , the honorable Middleton Flam , in the most deservedly profound respect , and knowing him to be , if I may be allowed the expression , a bright exemplar of democracy , and containing in himself , metaphorically speaking , the epitome of all sound opinions , I am fully authorised by the common usage regarding public characters to bring him and his affairs conspicuously into the view of the world , not for censure , neither for praise , although no man is better entitled to the latter , but for instruction . 
The tract used to be called , in Judge Flam 's time , `` The Poplar Flats , '' and the house , at that day , went by the name of `` Quality Hall : '' but ever since Mr. Middleton has had it , which , as may be gathered from what I have imparted in the last chapter , has been from the time that the old Black Cockades began to think of turning democrats ; ever since that day the spelling has been gradually changing , and the house now goes by the settled name of `` Equality Hall , '' and the tract is always written by our people `` The Popular Flats . '' 
Mr. Middleton greatly approves of this change , for two reasons which he has had occasion to take into his serious reflections : -- First ; `` Because , '' he says , `` in the Quodlibetarian Democratic system , as now understood , words are things . '' 
`` Not only things , Sir , '' said he , in a discourse one day , at his own table , `` but important and valuable things : I have observed , '' he continued , `` in our country , especially amongst the unflinching , uncompromising democrats , that a name is always half the battle . 
Mr. Flam 's second reason for approving the change in the spelling of Poplar Flats and Quality Hall , did not depend upon such a philosophical subtlety as the first ; it was simply because he had very nigh lost his first election to Congress from inattention to this material point of orthography . 
Quality Hall , some of the Democrats of our region were unreasonable and headstrong enough to say , was not so democratic a name as their candidate ought to have for his place of residence ; and if it had not been that our representative discovered this in time to convince them that it was an old-fashioned way of spelling Equality Hall , I believe , in my conscience , he would have made out very badly : but luckily for this district , and I may say , for the nation , this error in spelling was corrected in time to set all straight ; and Mr. Flam , from that day , not only put the E before the Q , bnt , in token of that incident , and by way of a remembrancer , always spoke of Equality Hall as built upon Popular Flats , which sounded very well in the ears of the New Lights , and no doubt went a great way to keep him in Congress ever after . 
Equality Hall is a building which looks larger than it is , from the circumstance that it was originally a one-storied , irregular cottage of brick , but in the Judge 's time a second story was put to it ; and , almost immediately after , Mr. Middleton came to be the owner , he enlarged the eastern gable by widening it to nearly forty feet , and building it up considerably above the roof , and then adding to it a grand Grecian Temple porch with niches for statues , and with fluted Doric columns of wood , which thus constituted , what Mr. Middleton calls his facade and principal front to the building . 
Mr. Flam has heard the same objection , but he has always treated it with the contempt it deserved . 
`` It wasintended for show , '' he observed one day addressing the people from the hustings , when he had occasion to notice a remark of one of these cavilling gentlemen , who had said something about having walked behind the portico to find the house , -- and I shall never forget how his eye kindled and his form dilated as he spoke -- `` show , sir ! 
That , sir , is what I call a keystone principle in the arch of democratic government : that is the sentiment , and that alone , which is to give perpetuity to this -- '' `` Fair fabric of freedom , '' said Theodore Fog , who was amongst the auditory , and perceived that Mr. Flam hesitated for a word to convey his idea . 
`` Thank you , my friend , '' courteously replied Mr. Flam , `` I am indebted to you for the word -- fair fabric of freedom . '' 
But even this expense would , perhaps , have been avoided , had it not been that Quipes , our artist , owed Mr. Flam twenty-five dollars on account of a debt which Mr. Flam had to pay for him , to get him out of gaol , for the sake of his vote , when we first elected our public spirited representative to Congress . 
Owing to this circumstance , connected with the fact that Sam Hardesty , the joiner , became insolvent on his contract for building the big portico , whereby Mr. Flam was obliged to advance money to him in order to get it finished , our member conceived that it would be a good plan to work these debts out of his two friends , by setting them about the decorations I have described . 
Besides , he reasoned with himself that it was always well to give employment to the working people about him , with a view to encourage industry and afford a practical illustration of the benignant influence of the great democratic principle upon society -- a consideration , which Mr. Flam on no occasion ever permitted himself to lose sight of . 
By this judicious management he accomplished a fourfold purpose -- namely : the beautifying of Popular Flats ; the execution of these rich specimens of art , at less than half their value ; the employment of two very meritorious fragments of the people ; and , above all , a most satisfactory development of the excellence and usefulness of the great New Light democratic principle . 
Mr. Flam never was what you might call a monied man . 
For although his farms were very productive , and he had a considerable income from stock in the United States Bank ; and although the expenses of his family were very far short of what the world might , from the show he made , suppose them to be ; yet he was in the habit of parting with his money as fast as it came to hand . 
There were a great number of deserving but needy persons who were often at the Popular Flats , and who did not hesitate to borrow all the funds Mr. Flam could spare ; -LRB- if he had a fault it was the generosity of his lendings , -RRB- and in this way to keep him , as he has often told me himself , very bare . 
To make sure against loss he had the prudence never to lend without bond and mortgage , with a power of attorney to confess judgment ; and as he ever avowed what he called his most irrevocable opinion , that the interest law was exceedingly oppressive upon the industry of the country , he invariably made his own bargain on that point -- sagaciously remarking , as I once heard him to Nicholas Hardup , the cattle dealer , who was under execution upon a judgment , and came to borrow the amount from Mr. Flam , `` Money , sir , is a commodity like wheat or cattle ; its value is regulated by the relations of supply and demand . 
It often happened , as such things will happen , that Mr. Flam became the loser by his generosity ; and as it was a maxim with him to inculcate the most rigid punctuality in all engagements , he has never felt himself at liberty to relax what he regarded this salutary rule ; so that , on many occasions , he has been compelled to submit to the unpleasant and expensive operation of closing his accounts on the bond and mortgage , by taking possession of the mortgaged property ; and in this way , as he sometimes feelingly complains to his friends , he has become encumbered with more land than he knows what to do with . 
He has , however , gradually got through a great deal of this trouble by renting out his farms ; a course which he intends to persevere in until his children are able to take the management of them . 
Mr. Handy has several times endeavored to persuade him to make his improvements rather more permanent , and to take down these embellishments I have been describing ; rather rashly as I thought , calling them , to Mr. Flam 's face , pasteboard scenery , gingerbread nonsense , and twopenny gimcracks : -- and he insinuated that if our worthy representative would lay out some of his `` accommodation '' in a more solid manner upon Popular Flats , it would tell hereafter to his advantage . 
But Mr. Flam turns a deaf ear to all Nicodemus 's preaching . 
He says that the accommodation is better laid out in the Chickasaw Reserve , where he and Amos Kendall mean to realise a large fortune ; and as to what Mr. Handy is pleased to call gimcracksand gingerbread , that , in fact , is the only kind of decoration in which a man , who respects the simplicity and purity of democratic government , ought to indulge his taste . 
This eloquent outburst of sentiment effectually silenced Mr. Handy and brought him thoroughly into Mr. Flam 's opinion . 
-- THE HON. MIDDLETON FLAM 'S TRIUMPHANT VINDICATION . 
-- SKETCH OF HIS CELEBRATED SPEECH BEFORE THE NEW LIGHTS . 
Nicodemus Handy 's row of stores on the Basin was the first improvement , as I have already informed my reader ; then Copperplate Ridge was studded with buildings ; at the same time Flam street was enriched with the bank and seven brick dwellings ; then came the Female Lyceum , with the Town Hall in the second story of the same building , Peter Ounce 's Boatman 's Hotel on the other side of the Basin , the Hay Scales , Zachary Younghusband , the tinplate worker 's shop , and Dr. Thomas G. Winkelman 's Druggist Store and Soda Water Pavilion . 
That ever-complaining party , as the Hon. Middleton Flam assured us by letter , were making a great ado in congress about all the banks , but particularly about ours -- alleging , in their usual factious manner , that the government would lose money by us , as well as by the others . 
Our Vice , Mr. Doubleday , who is a solid thinking , shrewd person , of that maturity of judgment which it is impossible to impose upon , and himself , by the by , a first rate debater , told me , after we broke up , that Mr. Flam 's diccourse that evening on the banking system at large and on the safetyof the banks in particular , was one of the closest pieces of reasoning he had ever listened to in his life . 
Here Mr. Flam was interrupted by a loud laugh . 
`` A Mr. Gordon , '' he said , `` was at the head of this little troop . 
And this , '' exclaimed Mr. Flam , with a tone of inimitable irony , `` was to be done for the SAFETY of the public Treasure ! 
In this admirable strain he continued for some minutes . 
At length , taking himself up , and falling into a tone of grave expostulation , he pulled out a copy of The Globe from his pocket , and proceeded -- `` Admirably , sir , has this paper which I hold in my hand , descanted on this most wicked project . 
`` Most admirably again , '' continued Mr. Flam , `` has this same incomparable Blair said , '' ` The scheme is disorganising and revolutionary , subversive of the fundamental principles of our government , and of its practice from1780 down to this day . ' 
`` Will you , freemen of Quodlibet , gentlemen of The New Light , '' exclaimed Mr. Flam , `` if faction should go so far as to put this odious , disorganising and revolutionary yoke upon the country , will you , freemen of Quodlibet , submit to it ? '' 
shouted the ready response of sixty-four voices -- `` Gentlemen , listen to the words of the Old Hero '' -- continued Mr. Flam , with a gratulatory smile playing on his face , presenting at the same time , a printed document which he carefully unfolded -- `` listen to that ` old man eloquent ' whose mouth is never opened but to breathe the precepts of wisdom and patriotism : -- I read you from his last message . 
`` Now are you willing , Men of Quodlibet , '' again ejaculated our eloquent representative , as he slapped the document upon the table , `` are you willing , or can you consent to tolerate a proposition , which is against the genius -- `` No ! '' 
`` A proposition , '' continued Mr. Flam , `` which is against the genius of our free institutions , and which would be a lure to tempt ambition to its most unholy purposes ? '' 
`` Now , gentlemen , '' said Mr. Flam , `` one word as to the safetyof these deposites . 
I have here the secretary 's own report , '' he added , as he selected one from the bundle of documents which lay before him . 
-- `` The secretary , gentlemen New Lights , '' said Mr. Flam , adroitly availing himself of the occasion to throw off a corruscation of wit -- `` the secretary lives in his Reports -- profound , statesmanlike , recondite and deep , his report is in my hand -- it is himself!I will read you what he says upon this matter of the safety of the banks . '' 
Here Mr. Flam read as follows , from a Report , dated Dec. 12 , 1834 : `` It is gratifying to reflect , however , that the credit given by the government , whether to bank paper or bank agents , has been accompanied by SMALLER LOSSES in the experience under the system of state banks in this country , at their worst periods , and under their severest calamities , than any other kind of credit the government has ever given in relation to its pecuniary transactions . '' 
`` Again , '' he continued , turning to another page -- `` It is a singular fact , in praise of this description of public debtors -- the selected banks -- that there is not now due , on deposite , in the whole of them , which have ever stopped payment , from the establishment of the constitution to the present moment , a sum much beyond what is now due to the United States from one mercantile firm , that stopped payment in 1825 or 1826 , and of whom ample security was required , and supposed to be taken under the responsibility of an oath . 
Of almost one hundred banks , not depositories , which , during all our wars and commercial embarrassments , have heretofore failed , in any part of the Union , in debt to the government , on their bills or otherwise , it will be seen by the above table -LRB- to which Mr. Flam referred as annexed to the report -RRB- that the whole of them , except seventeen , have adjusted every thing which they owed , and that the balance due from them , without interest , is less than $ 32,000 . '' 
`` There , gentlemen New Lights of Quodlibet , '' said Mr. Flam , when he had finished reading these extracts , `` what can be added beyond this certificate from the secretary , of the value of our State Banks ? 
Soonafter the time referred to in the last chapter -- that is , when we were favored by Mr. Flam with his views on the Banking System -- there was a question of the most profound interest in agitation , both in the New Light Club and out of it ; that question was the establishment of a newspaper . 
But this was not all ; the unprincipled editor of that reckless journal had actually so far forgotten all the decencies of civilised society , had become so callous to the cause of virtue and truth , as to launch his puny thunderbolts at the fair fame of the Hon. Middleton Flam . 
He was ridiculed as a pretender ! 
he was nicknamed a charlatan !! 
and the unbridled licence of this unsparing defamer did not stop short of denouncing him as a Federalist !!! 
Now I would challenge Thorough Blue Court House , and the settlement ten miles around it -- the whole region is whig -- to produce one man amongst them to compare either with the Hon. Middleton Flam or Nicodemus Handy . 
As soon as I , in my character of secretary , read the minutes of the preceding meeting , Mr. Handy rose , and after some very appropriate remarks delivered in a modest fashion , -LRB- in which he assured the club that he was unaccustomed to public speaking and moreover oppressed by the intensity of his feelings in regard to the recent attack on his friend , the Honorable Middleton Flam , and in a slight degree agitated in the presence of this most respectable assemblage of Quods , -RRB- came at once to the point . 
`` Who , '' he asked , `` was Augustus Postlethwaite Tompkinson ? 
Yes , sir , in the Honorable Middleton Flam I have found a friend . 
It shall take a decided and uncompromising stand against The Thoroughblue Whole Team -LRB- here he was again arrested by cheers -RRB- ; pledged to contradict every word uttered by that vile print -LRB- cheers -RRB- ; to traduce and bring down its editor by the most systematic disparagement -LRB- cheers -RRB- ; to disprove all Whig assertions ; unfailingly to take the opposite side on all questions ; industriously to lower the standing of the members of the Whig party -LRB- immense cheers -RRB- ; through thick and thin , good report and evil report , for better and for worse , to defend and sustain the administration of the new President , who is about to take his seat , that incomparable democrat of the genuine Quodlibetarian stamp , Martin Van Buren -LRB- at this point the cheering continued for some moments , with such violence that the speaker had to suspend his remarks -RRB- ; and finally , sir , to commend , exalt , and illustrate the character and pretensions of our unrivalled friend Mr. Flam -LRB- immense cheering -RRB- , giving utterance to his sentiments , preponderance to his opinions , authority to his advice on all proper and suitable occasions -LRB- loud cheering for a long time -RRB- . 
This art was too valuable in Eliphalet 's time to go long without a patron ; and accordingly , after he had worked four most reluctant years in a printing office , to which his respectable parents , thwarting the current of his genius , had devoted him , he was discovered and taken by the hand by Mr. Theophilus Flam , brother of the late Judge , and leader of the Federal party of Gabwrangle . 
-- REMARKABLE BRAVERY AND PRESENCE OF MIND OF THE HON. MIDDLETON FLAM . 
The Hon. Middleton Flam was sent for upon the first tidings of this extraordinary kicking in the traces by these high mettled institutions -- tidings which reached Quodlibet , via the canal , about eleven o'clock one morning in May . 
`` Never , '' said the Hon. Middleton Flam , rising from his seat and thumping the table violently with his hand . 
`` Gentlemen , I will put the question to the Board , '' interposed Mr. Flam , fearful lest a quarrel might arise , if the debate continued . 
`` Thank you , gentlemen , '' said Mr. Flam , `` for this generous support . 
Mr. Handy stepped to the window to get a view of the assemblage , and seeing that nearly all the moveable part of Quodlibet was gathering in front of the building , he retired with some trepidation into the directors ' room , and informed Mr. Flam and the Board of what was going on . 
Mr. Handy no sooner communicated the fact to them , than Mr. Flam , with considerable perturbation in his looks , rose and declared that Quodlibet was in a state of insurrection ; and , as every one must be aware , that in the midst of a revolution no bank could be expected to pay specie , he moved , in consideration of this menacing state of affairs , that the Patriotic Copperplate Bank of Quodlibet , suspend specie payments forthwith , and continue the same until such time as the re-establishment of the public peace should authorise a resumption . 
During this interval , the conspirators having learned , through their leader Flan Sucker , that the Hon. Middleton Flam was in the house , forthwith set up a violent shouting for that distinguished gentleman to appear at the door . 
As Tacitus says : `` Non tumultus , non quies , sed quale magni metus , et magnæ iræ silentium est. '' Mr. Flam raised his arm , and spoke in this strain : `` Men of Quodlibet . 
Year after year have we been struggling to give you a constitutional currency -- the real Jackson gold -- '' `` Three cheers for Middleton Flam ! '' 
-- Go it , Middleton ! '' 
`` Go it , Middleton ! 
`` Gentlemen , '' continued Mr. Flam , `` this bank of ours is purely Democratic . 
-LRB- Cheers , and ` Hurrah for Flam . ' -RRB- 
-LRB- Immense cheering , and cries of ` Flam forever ! ' -RRB- 
`` Gentlemen , '' added Mr. Flam , `` I thank you for the manifestation of this patriotic sentiment . 
Having concluded this masterly appeal to the reason and good sense of the people , Mr. Flam withdrew under nine distinct rounds of applause . 
The Patriotic Copperplate Bank of Quodlibet was , as Mr. Flam observed , purely democratic -- democratic in its origin , in its principles , in its organisation , in its management , in its officers , its stockholders and its customers . 
Theexciting summer of 1837 , with the special election of a member of congress for the extra session -- to which we returned our long tried and faithful representative Mr. Middleton Flam , almost without opposition -- went by . 
When Agamemnon Flag was brought out at the head of the ticket for the legislature , nothing was said about the iron railing , and we had good reason to suppose that every true Quod would support the nomination ; which in fact was made by the direction of our honorable representative in Congress who had a great liking for Flag , in consequence of a very beautifully written memoir of Mr. Flam , which appeared two years ago in the Bickerbray Scrutinizer , when Flag lived in that town . 
He had never forgotten the making of Middleton Flam President of the bank . 
Mrs. Younghusband was of the party and Mrs. Snuffers , with her interesting fat female infant nine months old ; the same dear child whose arrangements to appear in this world of cares procured me the honor of presiding over the New Light , on the memorable occasion of Mr. Flam 's great speech at Christmas , whereof I have spoken in a former chapter : thanks to Mrs. Snuffers for that considerate favor ! 
`` Jesse , '' said I , mildly , `` have you any respect for the opinion of our distinguished representative , my former pupil , Middleton Flam ? '' 
`` Well , I voted for him , '' replied Jesse . 
Mr. Flam will be home from congress before long , and until then we shall suspend our opinion . 
We are , at all hazards , real Flam men . 
Flam -- I drop the mister when I speak of him as a principle -- is our polar star -- our cynosure in politics -- our Pisgah , which gives us a view of the Promised Land . 
As a principle , our New Light Democracy is all out and out Flam . 
Flam is our father , our guide , our Pillar of Cloud . 
Wait till Middleton Flam comes home . '' 
cried fifty voices -- ` three cheers for the Hon. Middleton Flam ! ' 
-- loud cheering for Flam -- ` Walk into them , Fog ! ' 
The Whole Team , which , although not within the county , claimed to take a deep interest in this election , on the score of being within our congressional district , noticed our divisions with much self gratulation , and made the best of them , by attacking Agamemnon Flag as `` the creature , '' -LRB- to use its own unscrupulous language -RRB- of the Hon. Middleton Flam ; whilst , at the same time , it opened the flood-gates of its abuse upon Theodore Fog , as a man of `` bad habits , loose manners , and objectionable morals . '' 
Every lantern and every banner had written upon it Flam , in the hope thus to identify the ticket with our distinguished representative in congress , and bring in the aid of his great name to our cause . 
The defeat of Agamemnon Flag was a severe blow to our distinguished representative , the Hon. Middleton Flam , and no less galling to Nicodemus Handy ; for these three worthy gentlemen were undoubtedly at the head of the Mandarins , and their overthrow on the present occasion , led to unpleasant consequences which I shall be called upon to notice hereafter . 
-- and did you ever know Middleton Flam to call for as much as a thimble-full of your liquors , with all his preachings and parleyings in this house ? 
with the True Grits , as he calls them ; and true enough they are in the drinking line ! 
Spose these True Grits are upset -- as I should n't wonder they would be , as soon as Middleton Flam comes home from congress , and winds up the people right again -- as he has often done before -- am I going to run my head against a post by offending the whole New Light Club , which meets at our house , and make enemies by having sentiments of my own ? 
Does n't our member , Middleton Flam , tell you the same thing , and Nicodemus Handy , and Liphlet Fox ? 
`` Real True Grit doctrine , '' said Flam ; `` find out how the cat jumps -- then go ahead . '' 
-- gentlemen , take your respective glasses -- Dabbs , your health -- Jesse -- Flam -- all of you -- success to the True Grits ! 
-- MR. FLAM 'S OPINION OF THEM , AND THE CONSEQUENCE THEREOF . 
The Hon. Middleton Flam had once more returned to his constituents , and temporarily mingled in the walks of private life . 
Greatly was his return desiderated at this epoch . 
It was very apparent , after the Hon. Middleton Flam drew the attention of the Club to this fact , that these houses had combined to produce an utter prostration of business , solely for political effect , and that the malevolence of four of the most thriving amongst them had gone so far as even to render themselves bankrupt , and to break up , for no earthly purpose but that of making the administration unpopular . 
`` This is a specimen of the gratitude , '' said Mr. Flam , speaking with great emotion upon the subject , `` this is the gratitude of these commercial vultures -LRB- he always called them commercial vultures after the Suspension , and when speaking to the people -RRB- for all the manifold favors and bounties which , for five years past , the government has been so assiduously heaping upon their heads . 
Mr. Flam , seeing the state of our divisions , took a great deal of trouble to restore harmony into our ranks , and certainly did much to overawe the True Grits , who , now fancying themselves in the ascendant , became very dictatorial . 
Eliphalet Fox , although he took every occasion to speak in his paper greatly in commendation of Mr. Flam , was , nevertheless , an active upholder of The True Grit division . 
`` Our worthy representative , '' he said , `` was happily stationed above the influence of these little family quarrels ; and it was undoubtedly a subject of congratulation with that distinguished gentleman , that every section of the great democratic household of Quodlibet could cordially unite in testimonials of their confidence in his talents , his patriotism and his fidelity to the interests of his constituents . '' 
This paragraph was considered a master-stroke of New Light democracy in Eliphalet , because its tendency was to keep him and his paper on good terms with all parties supporting the administration , while it left him free to pursue the paramount objects which the True Grits steadily kept in view . 
-- THE HON. MIDDLETON FLAM RESIGNS THE PRESIDENCY OF THE COPPER-PLATE BANK . 
Middleton Flam has just received letters from Washington laying open the whole plan of operations . 
He has accordingly determined to put himself in position for ultimate action , by resigning the presidency of the bank . 
Middleton Flam , gentlemen , I am free to say it , although we have differed on some questions , is a great man and an honor to the New Lights . 
LETTER FROM AMOS KENDALL TO MR. FLAM . 
-- CANDIDATES FOR MR. FLAM 'S PLACE IN THE BANK . 
-- HE COOLS DOWN AND STANDS UPON PRINCIPLE . 
Mr. Flam had received a letter from Amos Kendall , apprising him that it was deemed absolutely necessary to the preservation of the New Light Democratic Party to become extremely pointed in their assault against the State Banks , and that the misdeeds of those institutions should be exaggerated as much as possible , and then charged upon the Whigs . 
The letter exhorted Mr. Flam to make these views known to the drill sergeants and corporals of the party in Quodlibet , and to stimulate them to active exertions in the part assigned to them . 
A letter from Mr. Woodbury , at the same time , informed Mr. Flam , that as the people had so contumaciously rejected the Independent Treasury bill , by their representatives in congress , the President was now determined to carry it at all hazards ; and consequently it was expected that no New Light democrat would be so false to the glorious principles of the Quodlibetarian theory as to interpose any opinion of his own , between the will of the President and the appropriate duty of the people . 
`` If such should be the case , '' said the secretary , `` Mr. Van Buren can have no alternative -- the individual so recreant to the eternal principles of the New Light Democracy , must be denounced by the Globe as an enemy to freedom , and what is worse , a traitor to his party '' Mr. Flam reflected upon these communications with grave attention ; and having shown them to some of his intimate friends , amongst whom I count it my highest honor to be ranked , he announced his purpose to resign his post in the bank . 
For this step he had two good reasons : the first was the necessity of disencumbering himself of a connection which might have impeded his usefulness -- to use his own words -- in his public relations : the second reason was , that he had borrowed so large an amount from the bank , as to circumscribe its bounty greatly to the prejudice of sundry of the directors who were , in consequence , beginning to complain of his management of the institution , and were even threatening to run an opposition against him in the election which was but a few months off . 
As this journey was undertaken with the pretence of business , it attracted no attention until this morning , when the indefatigable democratic President of that institution , Mr. Anthony Hardbottle , who was recently elected for the purpose of a thorough investigation into its concerns , -LRB- suspicions having been long indulged of its rottenness -- and , in fact , our worthy representative , the Hon. Middleton Flam , an unterrified and incorruptible New Light , having retired from the head of the institution on account of the disgusting irregularities which fell within his view , -RRB- laid a statement before the board which showed that the cashier had secreted upwards of $ 160,000 , the greater part of which funds there is reason to believe he has made away with in the course of the last three months . 
Upon investigation it was ascertained that the whole of this estate had been converted into money ; our worthy representative , the Hon. Middleton Flam , having an absolute conveyance for Handy House , its furniture and appurtenances , and certain political friends , connected with the custom house in New York , rank Whigs , having mortgages on all the rest of the property . 
-- INTERESTING LETTER FROM THE HON. MIDDLETON FLAM . 
In looking back upon the public events of this interval , I deem it necessary , in passing , merely to notice the fact that the New Lights were greatly rejoiced to find in Mr. Van Buren 's message to congress a complete justification of Mr. Woodbury 's promise to Mr. Flam , the import of which was to assure our representative that the President had made up his mind , after the rejection of that measure , to carry the Independent Treasury in spite of the people . 
Amos Kendall 's letter of directions to the Hon. Middleton Flam , with which my readers have been favored in a previous chapter , it will be remembered , required the New Lights to support the Independent Treasury , and as necessary thereto , to take ground against the State Banks , as altogether unsafe depositories of the public money . 
He further intimated , supposing we might be diffident about this , that the Secretary of the Treasury had already furnished evidence of this fact , and would , at the proper time , make it manifest that the Government had lost more money by the banks than by any other agents it had ever trusted . 
Mr. Flam lost no time in providing us with the Secretary 's report of February 27th , 1838 . 
-- THE HON. MIDDLETON FLAM RE-ELECTED . 
-- SAVAGE ASSAULT UPON MR. FLAM BY `` THE WHOLE TEAM '' IN CONSEQUENCE . 
Inthe Autumn of 1839 , the Hon. Middleton Flam was again our candidate for congress . 
He was opposed by the celebrated John Smith of Thoroughblue . 
This required great boldness ; but Middleton Flam entered upon the endeavor with the intrepidity of a hero . 
This artifice of ours , so skilfully carried into practice by Mr. Flam , excited the Whigs into the manifestation of a ferocity altogether incredible . 
Mr. Flam is of a tribe of gentlemen Federalists , who have had the skill or good luck to subjugate the more weak and credulous of the Democracy , and who are entitled to the gratifying distinction of having done more to disgrace the ashes of their fathers , and to heap obloquy upon their former comrades , than all their old-time enemies could ever accomplish . 
Notwithstanding this diatribe , Middleton Flam still exists -- vivet et valet . 
Yea , under this very hailstorm of vituperation , he was again elected to the honorable post which he now fills , by an increased majority . 
Mr. Flam gave our club every assurance that these two charges combined would destroy the purest man that ever lived ; and that it was only necessary to drive these spikes with a sledgehammer every day , and the democracy in the end could not fail to believe in the existence and in the enormity of these offences , no matter who should be brought out by the Whigs -- whether Scott , Clay , Harrison or Webster . 
Mr. Flam was now at Washington . 
Our Club met and immediately opened a correspondence with him for advice . 
`` Keep your eye on the Globe , '' was his first admonition . 
His second was , `` Open upon Harrison your Abolition batteries ; -- swear that the nomination was procured by the Emancipator ; -- charge Tyler with being a slave holder , and send that off to New Hampshire ; -- prove that Harrison was a stark Federalist by accepting an Ensigncy from the hands of Washington ; -- but , above all , turn him into derision for his poverty and plain habits . '' 
Recourse was had to Mr. Flam . 
-- IMPORTANT LETTER FROM MR. FLAM . 
Mr. Flam wrote from Washington a letter of grave reflection . 
`` Although , '' said he , `` our success in Virginia has transcended our expectations , yet we are not quite certain that our Abolitionbattery has been altogether very effective . 
His health is so much shattered by the diseases of the Post Office , that he is compelled to retire ; and as his physician prescribes `` the excitement of composition '' as his only cure , he is about to devote himself to the Extra Globe , in which sheet he will be able to indulge his imagination in the creation of those chaste and prurient fancies for which he has been remarkable from a child . 
The pure and simple inventions of that paper are ass 's milk to his wasted constitution . '' 
The letter was duly despatched to Washington to be presented by the Hon. Middleton Flam , who was requiredby the committee to render this service , from a suspicion that at bottom he was not very favorable to the True Grits . 
In a few days the Committee received a letter from Mr. Flam informing them he had done every thing they had demanded : that the President had read their confidential communication , and without hesitation replied , that if Sergeant Trap had been a civilofficer , he would have dismissed him without further inquiry , in deference to the respectability of the Committee ; -- but that , as Sergeant Trap belonged to the army , he found himself reluctantly compelled to proceed in a more formal manner , and that consequently he should direct a Military Court of Inquiry to take cognizance of the case : that this Court would sit in Quodlibet where the prosecutors were requested to be ready to prove the enormities alleged against Sergeant Trap . 
He takes the only just course -LRB- in this I have reason to believe he was fully seconded , perhaps even prompted , by our sagacious representative , the Hon. Middleton Flam -RRB- and that is a formal , solemn judicial inquiry into the conduct of Sergeant Trap , to ascertain whether he really hadpurchased liquors to the prejudice of the Great New Light Quodlibetarian Democratic Party . 
-- MR. FLAM RETURNS TO QUODLIBET . 
-- HIS VIEWS OF THE CANVASS . 
-- in regard to the Hon. Middleton Flam our Representative , and those who are not altogether well disposed towards him , I mean Theodore Fog 's adherents , -LRB- for it is manifest Theodore is looking to a seat in Congress -RRB- utrosque parietes linere , as the Latin proverb has it , which in the vernacular signifies to wear two faces -- by no means an uncommon , though a very objectionable sin in political affairs . 
The prize in this race is understood to be the good will of the South , and upon that is built hopes of `` the Succession ; '' at least , so I gather from the Hon. Middleton Flam , who is fully in the secret . 
Now , it has been whispered in high places , says my honorable informant , that when Mr. Van Buren shall vouchsafe to favor us by the appointment of his successor , Thomas Hart Benton -- who is the king Midas of the New Lights -- looks to receive the mantle ; unless , indeed , Amos Kendall shall disallow the same , and require it to be placed on other shoulders , which Mr. Flam thinks Amos will not do . 
`` It is , '' as Mr. Flam has declared , `` the unmingled , unaided , spontaneous result of popular sagacity -- springing not from executive dictation , nor the influence of party discipline , but from the intuitive and instinctive wisdom of millions of freemen ground to the dust by the tyrannical pressure of associated wealth . 
Upon the adjournment of congress , late in July , the Hon. Middleton Flam returned to Quodlibet , to infuse new energy into our indefatigable committee . 
Through him we were apprised of many matters of deep interest , touching the progress of the campaign , which was now growing amazingly active . 
Amos , we were glad to learn from him , had entirely recovered his health by the change from the corrupt atmosphere of the post office to the wholesome air of the Globe 's type-room : the `` excitement of composition , '' Mr. Flam said , daily brought a fresh glow upon his cheek -- and particularly in the writing of some late articles against General Harrison ; and his children , upon the whole , slept better than formerly -- having insensibly grown more indifferent to the Whig victories which at first produced such unhappy effects upon their slumbers . 
He whispered to Mr. Flam that , notwithstanding all this pother , it was an admirable democratic scheme , and should eventually become the law in spite of lamentations in congress or elsewhere : that the opposition to it now was no greater than that to the Independent Treasury in 1835 , and as he had carried the one , so he would the other . 
For the present , he said , he was obliged to succumb to the people ; and it was the first time he had ever been reduced to this point of humiliation since he was President . 
But it was a case of necessity and he had no alternative . 
He had consequently determined to write a letter and insinuate some doubts as to the constitutionality of the plan ; and in the mean time Mr. Poinsett , who was of that best description of friends , a friend in need , had very obligingly , and like a faithful New Light , agreed to stand between him and the storm , and take the whole blame upon himself . 
All these movements have been subsequently developed , in confirmation of Mr. Flam 's communication to our committee ; and the whole matter is before the public . 
And there was the affair of the Negro Witnesses , which also , Mr. Flam remarked , deprived the President of his natural rest . 
As it is , he is very sorry , Mr. Flam assures us , for these old errors ; has completely changed in regard to the whole of them ; and is now busily employed every day in writing letters to convince the people that they are mere Whig misrepresentations . 
Upon the subject of the Tariff and the Cumberland Road , notwithstanding that the New Lights have , somewhat inconsiderately , gone against the constitutional power to meddle with them , Mr. Van Buren has confidentially disclosed to Mr. Flam , -LRB- who in the same confidence has imparted it to the Committee , -RRB- that , for the present at least , he means to see-saw a little on these points , and , in the Quodlibetarian fashion , take his course hereafter . 
`` Upon the whole , '' Mr. Flam says , `` so far are these imputations , vexations and variations from doing Mr. Van Buren any harm in the canvass , they , in fact , only the more endear him to his friends , and strengthen his chance of reelection , since they prove the more conclusively , that he is personally experienced in the pros and cons of every great question , by having been on both sides , and has thereby rendered himself more competent to decide as a statesman what is most likely to enure to the benefit of his party . 
We shall see , '' continued Mr. Flam , `` a triumphant vindication of the President 's influence over the people , in the results of the Western and Southern elections which are immediately to take place . 
This stratagem of Rhetoric has a marvellous effect upon our new Lights ; as we had occasion to observe a few days ago , when Mr. Flam read this epistle aloud to a considerable assemblage of our people who had gathered together in our committee room to hear it . 
There was one sentiment in this letter that particularly delighted Mr. Flam , and upon which he paused with an inward gratification that for some moments interrupted his reading . 
He is speaking of the opposition of the Federalists to the Kentucky Resolutions : `` While even the name , '' says he , `` of the proud and powerful party which opposed them , has come to be considered a term of reproach , if not of ignominyand insult , the principles of the Kentucky Resolutions , in profession , if not in fact , now enter into the creed of every political sect , and the once derided name borne by their apostates and advocates is considered an essential passport to popularity and success . '' 
The Hon. Middleton Flam , Theodore Fog , Agememnon Flag and Zachary Youngbusband , -LRB- for Zachary has turned orator of late , -RRB- and , without vaunting , I myself may say that the importance of the crisis has even , on some recent occasions , placed me in the same category -- we all give breath to the same sentiment in speeches by day and by night , and `` the same key note , '' to quote a studied and prepared figure of speech from an admirable oration delivered last week by Agamemnon Flag in front of the Iron Railing -- `` The same Key Note of the Intelligence of the Peoplerings in the discourses of five thousand Orators , and jangles in twenty thousand resolutions of New Light Democratic Clubs from the St. Croix to the Sabine ; and through all the windings of its devious way the Ignominy and the Insult of Federalismmurmur on the ear in inseparable treble accompaniment . '' 
But Mr. Flam , who has always shown himself a true friend and patron to me , took up my cause with such spirit and effect , being well supported by Mr. Doubleday and Mr. Snuffers -- that a unanimous vote of approbation was finally passed by the Committee . 
