I spose Uncle Joshua is in a great hurry to hear something about these Legislaters ; for you know he 's always reading newspapers , and talking politics , when he can get anybody to talk with him . 
I 've seen him when he had five tons of hay in the field well made , and a heavy shower coming up , stand two hours disputing with Squire W. about Adams and Jackson -- one calling Adams a tory and a fed , and the other saying Jackson was a murderer and a fool ; so they kept it up , till the rain began to pour down , and about spoilt all his hay . 
Uncle Joshua may set his heart at rest about the bushel of corn that he bet ` long with the postmaster , that Mr. Ruggles would be Speaker of that Legislater they call the House ; for he 's lost it , slick as a whistle . 
So Uncle Joshua will have to shell out his bushel of corn , and I hope it will learn him better than to bet about politics again . 
DOWNINGVILLE TAVERNDOWNINGVILLE TAVERN Dear Uncle Joshua : -- I spose you learnt by my letter t ` other day to cousin Ephraim , that you had lost the bushel of corn you bet about the Speaker in the Legislater -- I mean that Legislater they call the House -- for Mr. White got it first , and then Mr. Goodenow got it , and he 's kept it ever since . 
Oh dear , Uncle Joshua , these Legislaters have got the State into a dreadful pickle . 
I was down in the bar-room , and thought it well enough to look pretty considerable smart , and UNCLE JOSHUA AND THE FOURTH STALLER.UNCLE JOSHUA AND THE FOURTH STALLER . 
and says he , for your watch , and says I , any way that will be a fair shake ; upon that says he , I 'll give you mywatch and five dollars ; says I , it 's done ! 
He gave me the five dollars , and I gave him my watch . 
Now , says I , give me yourwatch ; and , says he , with a loud laugh , I ha n't got none , and that kind a turned the laugh on me . 
Well , how do you UNCLE JOSHUA AND STEPHEN FURLONG.UNCLE JOSHUA AND STEPHEN FURLONG . 
It was the fiftiethballot since the commencement of the session ; and had a fifty pounderbeen unexpectedly discharged in the room , it would hardly have produced a stronger sensation , than the declaration of the committee , when they piped away in the following new tune : whole number of votes , 15 ; necessary to a choice , 8 ; Joshua Hall has 8 , Robert Dunlap , 6 ; James Steele , 1 ; blank , 1 . 
I stated in my letter to Uncle Joshua , that there were two very clever parties in the Legislater , the Democratic Republikans and the National Republikans ; and they are so , and very industrious , and try to make things go on right ; and I really believe , if the confounded Jacksonites and Huntonites did n't bother 'em so , they 'd make us a Governor as quick as I could make an ax handle . 
` Twill make you jest like your Uncle Joshua . 
You know he had rather stand and dispute about politiks any time , than work on his farm , and talking will never build a stone wall or pay our taxes . 
So you may tell Uncle Joshua that besides that bushel of corn he lost in betting about the Speaker , he 'll have to shell out as much as two bushels moreto pay the cost of trigging the wheels . 
It seems soon after you got my first letter , Uncle Joshua tackled up , and started off to Boston with a load of turkeys and apple-sass . 
I had a letter from him t ` other day , as long as all out-doors , in the Boston Advertiser . 
He says he got more for the turkeys than he expected tu ; but I think it 's a plaguey pity he did n't bring 'em to Portland . 
I know he 'd got more than he could in Boston . 
Howsomever , Uncle Joshua did well to carry his `` puckery apple-sass '' to Boston . 
He could n't get a cent for ' t here ; for everybody 's puckery and sour enough here now . 
Your loving neffu , Dear Cousin Ephraim : -- Here I am yet , and have n't much else to do , so I might as well keep writin to you ; for I s ` pose Uncle Joshua 's in a peck of trouble about his bushel of corn . 
Dear Uncle Joshua : -- There 's a hot time ahead . 
From your cousin , Uncle Joshua : -- There 's one thing , uncle , that seems to wear pretty hard upon my mind , and plagues me a good deal ; I have n't slept but little this tu three nights about it . 
It was the newspapers , uncle Joshua , that made you betabout the Speaker last summer , and lose your bushel of corn . 
`` JOSHUA DOWNING , Chairman . 
Dear Uncle Joshua : -- I suppose you would like to know something about how the election turned out down here . 
Dear Uncle Joshua : -- I 'm in considerable of a kind of a flusteration to-day , because I 've got a new scheme in my head . 
Dear Uncle Joshua : -- I have got so fur at last , and a pretty hard run I 've had of it to get here , I can tell ye . 
My stars , Uncle Joshua , I never felt my hair curl quicker than it did then . 
My hand kind of drawed back , and my fingers clinched as if I were jest agoing to up fist and knock him down . 
To think that he should charge me with being a Federal Candidate!it was too much for flesh and blood to bear . 
I told him I never was a Federal candidate , and there never was a drop of Federal blood in me ; and I would run from a Federalist , if I should meet one , as quick as I would from poison.That 's right , says he , I like that ; that 's good stuff , and he catched hold of my hand , and gave it such a shake , I did n't know but he 'd a pulled it off . 
Dear Uncle Joshua : -- I 've got here at last , to this great city , where they make offices , and I 'm determined not to leave it till I get one . 
I shall call on the old Gineral in two or three days , and if I can make a dicker with him about the office I 'll let you know Dear Uncle Joshua : -- It 's pretty trying times here . 
Dear Uncle Joshua : -- I 've got it at last , as true as you 're alive , and now I do n't keer a snap for the fattest of 'em . 
So , as I said afore , arter supper we took the papers and went into father 's , and I sot down and read it all over to him -- how a parcel of the British come over into our disputed territory and went to cutting down our timber like smoke , so as to steal it , and carry it off in the spring when the rivers open , away down to New Brumzick ; and how our Governor , as soon as he heard about it , sent Mr. McIntire , the land agent , and a hundred and fifty men to put a stop to that stealin ' business , and ketch the fellers if he could , and bring 'em off ; and how Mr. McIntire took his men and marched off down there into the woods , ever so fur , into our disputed territory , and got all ready and was jest a going to ketch the fellers and bring 'em off up to Augusta , when the thieving chaps turned about and ketched him , and put him on a sled and hauled him off down to Fredericton , in New Brumzick , and put him in jail When I got along so fur , father could n't hold still no longer ; he struck his staff down on the floor , jest as if it had been a training-gun , and says he : `` Joshua , there 'll be trouble ; you may depend upo n't , there 'll be trouble . 
In them days , if the British had took one of our men and hauled him off to Fredericton , and put him in jail , every man in the old Bay State , and every boy tu , that was big enough to carry a gun , would a shouldered it , and marched to New Brumzick , and Fredericton jail would a been stripped down in no time , and Mr. McIntire brought home again . '' 
This , from your old friend and humble servant , Dear Uncle Joshua : -- There 's terrible times here again , and I 'm half afraid it 's going to be worse than it was last winter . 
It makes me feel as if I was again talking with you , and Uncle Joshua , and Cousin Ephraim , and Cousin Nabby , and Ant Sally , and all of 'em . 
For you ca n't think how I long to see you and Uncle Joshua and Ant Keziah and Cousin Ephraim and Cousin Nabby and all the rest of the dear souls up in Downingville . 
So I gave , `` Uncle Joshua Downing , the most thoroughgoing Republikan in Downingville . '' 
`` Good , '' said the President ; `` I understand you , Captain Downing ; your Uncle Joshua shall have the Post-Office . '' 
N. B. -- Uncle Joshua wished me to ask you to ask the President about that Post-Office again , as his commission has n't come yet . 
Howsomever , you know Uncle Joshua always told us never to cry for spilt milk , so I mean to hold my head up yet . 
Uncle Joshua Downing -- you know he 's an old fox , and always knows where to jump ; well , he see how everybody was getting rich , so he went and bought a piece of township up back of Downingville , and give his note for a thousand dollars for it . 
So you see there 's five of 'em , that wa n't worth ninepence apiece , -LRB- except Uncle Joshua , -RRB- have now got a thousand dollars apiece clear , when their notes are paid . 
He has a great desire to go as fur as Downingville , and get acquainted with Uncle Joshua , who has always stuck by him in all weathers , through thick and thin . 
The President thinks Uncle Joshua is one of the Republikan pillars of New England , and says he shall always have the Post-Office as long as he lives , and his children after him . 
He can send his letter in your Currier , or get Uncle Joshua to frank it -- either way it wo n't cost me anything . 
Now I think of it , I wish you would jest ask Cousin Nabby to ask Uncle Joshua to frank me on two or three pair of stockings , for mine have got terribly out at the heels . 
We shall come as far as Portland , and I expect we shall go up to Downingville , for the President says he must shake hands with Uncle Joshua before he comes back -- that faithful old Republikan , who has stood by him through thick and thin , ever since he found he was going to be elected President . 
He will either go up to Downingville , or send for Uncle Joshua to meet him at Portland . 
They tell him he 'd better treat the Federalists pretty civil , and shake hands with Mr. Webster as quick as he would with Uncle Joshua Downing . 
The President had jest got through reading a letter from Uncle Joshua Downing , urging him very strongly to come up as fur as Downingville when he comes on that way . 
And says he , `` Major Downing , this Uncle Joshua Downing of yours is a real true blue Republikan as I know of anywhere . 
Dear Uncle Joshua : -- We are coming on , full chisel . 
I 've been trying , ever since we started , to get a chance to write a little to you ; but when we 've been on the road I could n't catch my breath hardly long enough to write my name , we kept flying so fast ; and when we made any stop , there was such a jam round us there was n't elbow room enough for a miskeeter to turn round without knocking his wings off . 
Give my love to all the folks in Downingville , and believe me your loving neffu , Dear Uncle Joshua : -- Here we are , amongst an ocean of folks , and cutting up capers as high as a cat 's back . 
As the letter of the genuine Major , giving an account of the same affair , was sent to his Uncle Joshua , through the Portland Courier , it took several days for it to make the journey Down East and back again to New York . 
The letter was to Uncle Joshua , the Postmaster . 
Uncle Joshua put on his spettacles and opened the mail , and hauled out the papers and letters in a bunch . 
In a minute I see one to Uncle Joshua with the President 's name on the outside ; so I knew it was from Jack , for the President always puts his name on Jack 's letters . 
We all cried out to Uncle Joshua to open it , and let us know what was in it . 
But he 's such a provoking odd old man , he would n't touch it 'till he got every one of the papers and letters sorted and put up in their places . 
And then he took it and set down in his arm-chair , and took out his tobacker box and took a chaw of tobacker , and then he broke open the seal and sot and chawed and read to himself . 
We all stood tiptoe , with our hearts in our mouths , and he must needs read it over to himself three times , chawing his old quid , and once in a while giving us a knowing wink , before he would tell us what was in it . 
And he would n't tell us arter all , but , says he , `` You must all be ready to put the best side out Thursday morning ; there 'll be business to attend to , such as Downingville never see before . '' 
But the greatest rumpus was at Uncle Joshua 's ; for they said the President must stay there all night . 
After we got things pretty much fixed , Uncle Joshua started off to meet Cousin Jack and the President , and left Sargent Joel to put matters to rights , and told us we must all be ready and be paraded in the road by nine o'clock Thursday morning . 
About eight o'clock , all the village got together down the road as fur as Uncle Joshua 's new barn ; and Sargent Joel told us how to stand , as he said , in military order . 
Cousin Ephraim , who aint so easily fluttered , held on to his and did n't fire , for he could n't see anybody but Uncle Joshua on his old gray horse . 
Along come Uncle Joshua , on a slow trot , and we looked and looked , and could n't see anybody coming behind him . 
When Uncle Joshua got up so we could see him pretty plain , he looked as cross as a thunder-cloud . 
He rid up to Sargent Joel , and says he , `` You may all go home about your business , for Jack and the President are half way to Washington by this time . '' 
You may tell 'em there aint five folks in Downingville that would hoorah for Jackson now , and hardly one that would vote for him , unless 't is Uncle Joshua , and he would n't if he was n't afraid of losing the Post-Office . 
Suffice it to say , his military renown , his valuable public services in assisting President Jackson to put down the nullifiers , especially in shaking hands with the Yankees `` Down East , '' and last , though not least , the fidelity with which he and his Uncle Joshua stuck to the old hero after he found he was going to be President , eminently qualify him for that exalted station . 
`` Well , '' says he , `` if any thing should happen that we ca n't go to Downingville , you must send for your Cousin Nabby and Uncle Joshua to come on to Washington to see me . 
says I , `` and not go to Downingville : what will Uncle Joshua say ? '' 
I shall depend upon you and Uncle Joshua to carry the State of Maine for me ; and , in order to secure the other States , I ` spose it will be necessary to publish my life and writings . 
I 'm a genuine Demokratic Republikan , and always was , and so was my father before me , and Uncle Joshua besides . 
I wish you would take a little pains to send up to Downingville and get Uncle Joshua to call a public meeting , and have me nominated there . 
The President is quite comfortable , and sends his respects to you and Uncle Joshua . 
I 've been watching politics pretty snug ever since I was a little boy , and that 's near about thirty years ; and I believe I know most as much about it as Uncle Joshua , although he 's twenty years older than I be . 
And here is old Uncle Joshua in the Post-Office , he 's got to be about fifty , and he 's hanging on to the Dimokratic side yet , like the toothache ; and it begins to worry me a good deal . 
I think it 's high time he went over . 
It has put Judge Preble over , and Judge Ware , and Mr. Mitchell , the Postmaster at Portland , and he is n't near so old as Uncle Joshua ; and it has put Mr. Megquier over -- only think , such a young man as Mr. Megquier , that 's only been in the State Sinnet three or four years . 
Now do n't you think , according to Dimokratic usage , it 's high time old Uncle Joshua was put over ? 
And as soon as it comes out in the Argus that he is fairly over , I want you to tell the President that Uncle Joshua is a Federalist , and have him removed from the Post-Office , for it would be an everlasting shame to have the Post-Office in Downingville kept by a Federalist . 
N. B. -- If Uncle Joshua should be removed , I wish you would use your influence to get the President to give the office to me ; for , next to Uncle Joshua , I s ` pose I 've done more for the Republikan party than any man in Downingville . 
`` Well , '' says I , `` that alters the case a little , and I 'll write to Uncle Joshua and the editor of the Portland Courier , and see what they think of it ; and if they think it 's best to have Daniel for President we 'll have him in , and I 'll take my turn afterward ; for , seeing the people are bent upon having me for President , I wo n't decline ; though if it is thought best that I should wait a little while , I wo n't be particular about that . 
I asked him if he did n't think it would do for me to go out and stop a day or two , as I had n't seen Uncle Joshua , or Ant Keziah , or any of 'em there for a long time . 
When I got to Downingville , I asked Uncle Joshua about it . 
I send you some letters from Uncle Joshua , and other relations and friends , which you can , if you think best , hitch on to my dispatches , jest as Gineral Scott takes the letters of his under-officers and hitches on to his dispatches . 
Uncle Joshua says you are the Tom Hyerof our party , and can whip anybody the Feds can bring into the ring . 
One time they put him to launch a vessel that was too heavy for him . 
After he tried once or twice , and could n't start it , the keeper called out , `` Take away this lazy beast , and bring another . '' 
My Dear Mr. Ritchie : -- To-morrow Uncle Joshua , our delegate to Congress from Salt River Territory , starts for Washington . 
After the meeting come to order , and Colonel Jones was appointed cheerman , Uncle Joshua got up and said the common practice of choosing a representative or delegate first , and then tying his hands afterward with instructions , he did n't think was hardly a fair shake . 
When Colonel Jones set down , the whole meeting turned and looked toward Uncle Joshua ; for they think he knows more about these matters than anybody else in the Territory ; and , besides , he 's a considerable speaker when you once get him started . 
They kept looking and nodding to him , and at last Uncle Joshua got up . 
`` Mr. Cheerman , '' says Uncle Joshua , says he , `` If you know jest how things work in one case , you can pretty commonly tell pretty near how them same things will work in another case ; for I 've always obsarved in my lifetime , that when things worked jest so in one case , them same things would most always work jest so in another case . 
`` And now , Mr. Cheerman , '' said Uncle Joshua , lowering his voice , `` seeing how things did work in one case , and , judging from that , how they would work in another case , I move that our delegate to Congress shall be instructed -- `` Firstly , to vote against Jonathan 's putting up the sign-board . 
Here Bill Johnson jumped up , and slapped his hand down on the bench so hard that it made the house ring again , and says he : `` I second that motion , Mr. Cheerman ; and I move that Uncle Joshua Downing shall be our delegate to Congress . '' 
But I do n't know where to find him , for Uncle Joshua tells me he is n't in the Washington Union paper now , and they 've `` carried him back to old Virginny . '' 
I did n't know things was in quite so bad a snarl till I got home ` tother day from Californy , and sot down and had a long talk with Uncle Joshua , who told me all about it . 
Uncle Joshua is getting old , but he holds his age remarkably well -- I think full equal to Mr. Ritchie , and I do n't see but he keeps the run of politics as well as he used to . 
Says I : `` Uncle Joshua , what 's the prospect about the Presidency ? '' 
`` Well , now , Uncle Joshua , '' says I , `` jest name over all these parties , so I can begin to have some idea of them . '' 
Here Uncle Joshua paused a little , and Aunt Keziah laid down her nittin ' - work , and looked over her spectacles ; and says she to me , `` Your Uncle Joshua must have a wonderful memory to keep all them hard names in his head ; for my part , I do n't see how he does it . '' 
AUNT KEZIAH ASTONISHED AT UNCLE JOSHUA 'S MEMORY.AUNT KEZIAH ASTONISHED AT UNCLE JOSHUA 'S MEMORY . 
`` Well , now , '' says Uncle Joshua , `` how do you suppose we are going to work to make a President , with all these parties in the field , fightin ' cross-handed , and every which way ? '' 
`` What do you think of Mr. Calhoun 's plan , '' said Uncle Joshua , `` that 's laid down in his works , just published ? '' 
`` Well , '' says he , `` he recommends to choose twoPresidents , one for the North and one for the South -- each side of Mason and Dixon 's line ; and no law of Congress to become a law till it is signed by both Presidents . 
Uncle Joshua could n't help smiling , but he looked as sober as he could , and says he , `` Come , come , Nabby , you hush up ; what do you know about politics ? '' 
`` Well , you 've fairly run it into the ground now , '' says Uncle Joshua , `` and I guess we may as well let it stick there . 
`` Well , '' says I , `` Uncle Joshua , according to what you say about the parties now-a-days , all split up into flinders , and cross-grained every way , I do n't think there 's much chance for any of 'em to elect a President , especially if Mr. Ritchie p688-350 do n't help . 
`` Well , Major , '' says Uncle Joshua , `` I think a good deal of your notions , and I wish you would draw up some plan for us to go by , for it 's high time we was doing something . '' 
So , Mr. Gales & Seaton , I remain your old friend , Mr. Gales & Seaton : -- Since my letter to you , two or three weeks ago , I 've had another long talk with Uncle Joshua about the rickety consarn of our politics all over the country , and about contrivin ' a new platform to stand on . 
Uncle Joshua takes hold of the business like an old apostle of liberty . 
He says something must be done , or we are a gonegoose people ; we ca n't never get along in this way , split up into twenty parties , and every one fightin ' agin all the rest . 
When we did n't use to have but two parties , he says , one or t ` other most always stood a chance to beat , and they that was n't beat could take command of the ship , and trim the sails as they thought best , and man the helm , and keep her movin ' on the voyage . 
`` Ye see , Major , '' says Uncle Joshua , `` we must ` malgamate these twenty parties into two parties agin , somehow or other . 
Here Uncle Joshua got up and went to the fire , and knocked the ashes out of his pipe , and put in a little more tobacco , and sot down agin . 
`` Well , now , Major , '' says he , `` it 's been jest so with the last two great parties , the Whigs and Democrats . 
`` Why , Uncle Joshua , '' says I , `` it seems to me you are getting wild . 
Here Uncle Joshua laid his pipe down , and I see he was in arnest ; and Aunt Keziah laid her nittin ' - work down , for she see he was in arnest , too . 
And Uncle Joshua turned round to me , and says he , `` I tell you the old Whig and Democrat parties are as dead as two old stumps . 
`` Now , suppose some folks , '' says he , `` thinkin ' the Whigs and Democrat parties was alive yet , should go ahead and call the national conventions as they used to , and should let nobody in but jest the two old parties , and nominate their Presidents . 
`` Well , '' says I , `` Uncle Joshua , accordin ' to your account , I think we are in a pickle . '' 
`` That 's what we be , '' says he ; `` and there 's nothing will get us out of it but to go back to the old fashion of two parties again . 
`` Well , Uncle Joshua , '' says I , `` I never got so fur into the woods yet but what I found the way out again ; and I do n't see any difficulty here . 
At that , Uncle Joshua gin me a slap on the shoulder that e 'n a ` most fetched me over , and says he , `` Major , that makes me feel as if a flash of lightning went through me . 
`` I tell you what 't is , Uncle Joshua , there 's always a majority in every ship that had rather get safe through the voyage than to be upset and go to the bottom . 
Now , what do you think of my plan , Uncle Joshua ! 
` Well , I do n't doubt but that would be a good way to get up oneparty , '' says Uncle Joshua ; `` but I do n't see how that would get us out of the difficulty after all ; for there would still be as many parties left as there is now . 
says Uncle Joshua , opening his eyes about half an inch wider . 
`` No , '' says I , `` Uncle Joshua , there would n't be but one party left . '' 
says he ; `` I 've cyphered as fur as the rule of three , but that sum beats me . 
`` No , '' says I , `` Uncle Joshua , that a n't right . 
says Uncle Joshua , with his eyes and mouth both pretty well open . 
`` Well , '' says I , `` Uncle Joshua , it would be the regular Fillibuster party ; for , when all that are willing to stand up for the Union and the Constitution had come out from the twenty parties , you may depend o n't that all that was left would be fillibusters.Then it would be the ` National Come-outers ' on one side , and the ` Fillibusters ' on t ` other ; and if one or t ` other would n't get licked I 'm mistaken . '' 
At that Uncle Joshua hopped up like a boy and ketched hold of my hand , and says he , `` Major , you 've hit it ; that 's the road ; go ahead . 
`` Well , now , '' says Uncle Joshua , `` set right down , Major , and write to Mr. Gales and Seaton , and to Mr. Ritchie tu , and ask them what they think of it . 
Uncle Joshua and I have been hard to work all the time , day and night , reading your speeches and the duins of the meetins in New York and England . 
Uncle Joshua said he would sell his three-year old steers , for he could do his plowing next summer with the old oxen , and send the money to you . 
Joshua Downing , Esq. , Postmaster -LRB- Uncle Joshua -RRB- , was unanimously appointed Chairman , and Mr. Seth Stiles -LRB- school-master -RRB- , was chosen Secretary . 
Uncle Joshua took the chair , amid the cheers of the meetin ' . 
He 's always been Chairman of the Democracy this last thirty years . 
-LSB- This was seconded all round , and Uncle Joshua , coloring a little , laid his specs on the desk , and got up out of his chair . -RSB- 
According to a call from Uncle Joshua , the Chairman , posted up in the usual places -- that is , on the meetin ' - house , and on the center school-house , and on Bill Johnson 's store -- the adjourned meeting from February 9 was held this evening in the center school-house . 
Copy of the Secretary 's minutes , examined and approved for the press by Dear Uncle Joshua : -- The job is done , and it 's been about the toughest week 's work that ever I did . 
And I 'm afraid the worst o n't ai n't over yet ; for Uncle Joshua shakes his head and says to me , in a low tone , so the rest sha n't hear , `` Between you and me , Major , the ` lection will be a harder job still . '' 
I put great faith in Uncle Joshua 's feelins . 
When I got home from Baltimore , says I , `` Well , Uncle Joshua , you got my letter in the Intelligencer , did n't you ? '' 
says I. `` I do n't know about that , '' said Uncle Joshua ; `` I have my doubts about it . '' 
Uncle Joshua looked up to me kind of quizical , and says he , `` It hasgin the party a pretty considerable of a start already , it come so unexpected . '' 
And then he sot as much as two minutes drumming his finger on the table , and did n't say nothin ' . 
And then he looked up again , and says he , `` Major , who is General Pierce ? '' 
`` Why , Uncle Joshua , '' says I , `` how you talk ! 
says he . 
`` Yes , '' says I , `` Uncle , I 'm as sure of it as I am that there is such a person as Uncle Joshua Downing . 
Here I see by the looks of Uncle Joshua 's eyes that he begun to get hold of some new ideas . 
`` Well , then , if you 've really got a candidate , '' says Uncle Joshua , `` I should like to know something about him . 
`` After all , '' says he , `` I 'm afraid it 's a bad nomination . 
`` Do n't you never fear that , Uncle Joshua , '' says I ; `` them old pillars that you speak of are all very much tickled with the nomination . 
`` Well , how is it , '' said Uncle Joshua , `` about that boy candidate for the Presidency that they call Young America ? 
`` There 's where you are mistaken again , Uncle Joshua , '' says I. `` On the contrary , he goes for it hotter than any of 'em ; and he telegraphed back to Baltimore , as quick as lightning could carry it , that the nomination was jest the thing ; it could n't be no better . 
Ye see , he looks upon it in the light that it chokes off all the Old Fogies , and leaves the field clear for him next time . 
He thinks so highly of the nomination , and feels so patriotic about it , they say he is going to stump it through all the States , and make speeches in favor of Gineral Pierce 's election . 
You may depend upon it , Uncle Joshua , we 've got a very strong nomination -- one that 'll carry all afore it -- and everybody is delighted with it , and everybody 's going to go for it . 
I thought you would have things all cut and dried for a rousin ' ratification meeting by the time I got home '' `` Well , you know , Major , '' said Uncle Joshua , `` I always follow Colonel Crockett 's rule , and never go ahead till I know I 'm right . 
`` You are wrong again , Uncle Joshua , '' says I , `` for the biggest Free-Soiler in all America swallowed it right down , and did n't make a wry face about it . '' 
says he . 
`` I mean Mr. John Van Buren , '' says I. `` But you do n't mean , '' says Uncle Joshua , `` that Mr. John Van Buren accepts this platform , and is willing to stand on it . '' 
`` Well , Major , '' says Uncle Joshua , `` you 've made out a better case than I thought you could . 
`` Good gracious , Uncle Joshua , '' says I , `` have you been Postmaster of Downingville this twenty years , and always reading the papers , and do n't know that Gineral Pierce was one of the heroes of the Mexican war ? '' 
At that , Uncle Joshua hopped out of his chair like a boy , and says he , `` Major , is that a fact ? '' 
says Uncle Joshua , snapping his fingers ; `` that 's lucky , then we 've got something to go upon ; something that the boys can hoorah about . 
`` Of course not , '' says Uncle Joshua , `` if he was the hero of the Mexican war . 
`` Well , the great battle of Cerro Gordo come next , '' said Uncle Joshua ; `` I dare say Gineral Pierce was foremost in marching up that bloody Bunker Hill and driving off Santa Anna and his fifteen thousand troops . '' 
`` Well , the next great battle , if I remember the newspapers right , '' said Uncle Joshua , `` was Contreras ; and after that came the bloody and hot times of Cherubusco , and the King 's Mill , and Chepultepec , and marching into the City of Mexico . 
`` Then he wasin the battle of Contreras , '' said Uncle Joshua , `` and that ca n't be disputed ? '' 
`` Good , '' said Uncle Joshua , `` he was in one battle , and got wounded ; that 's enough to mak a handle of , anyhow . 
said Uncle Joshua , very earnest . 
`` No , no ; nothin ' of that kind , nother , '' says I. `` Then it must be grape or bombshells , '' said Uncle Joshua , `` how was it ? '' 
Uncle Joshua colored a little , and sot and thought . 
At last he put on one of his knowing looks , and says he , `` Well , Major , a wound is a wound , and we can make a handle of it without being such fools as to go into all the particulars of how he came by it . 
Uncle Joshua presided , as usual . 
When we 'd got about through , and was just winding up with three tremendous cheers for the `` Hero of Mexico , '' a message came up to Uncle Joshua from the Post-Office , stating that the telegraph had just brought news that the Whig Convention at Baltimore had nominated Gineral Scott for President . 
Uncle Joshua looked very serious , and says he , `` Feller-Democrats , to prevent any mistakes , I think you had better give them three last cheers over again , and put in the name of Gineral Pierce . '' 
Downingville is wide awake , and will do her duty in November . 
But I feel bad for Uncle Joshua . 
His whole heart is bound up in the Post-Office , and if he should lose it , I 'm afraid it would almost be the death of him . 
He 's had it now more than twenty years , and he 's more fond of it because it was give to him by dear old Gineral Jackson . 
If any way could be contrived to keep Uncle Joshua in the Post-Office , I would n't care a snap if Gineral Scott did come in . 
Two or three weeks ago Uncle Joshua and I was in the barn , planning a little about getting out the voters to the election , when all at once we heard somebody back of the barn holler , with all his might , `` Hurrah for Gineral Scott . '' 
Uncle Joshua looked as cross as thunder , and Cousin Joel colored a little as soon as he see us , but he swung his hat again , and sung out , once more , `` Hurrah for Gineral Scott , and I do n't care who hears it . '' 
said Uncle Joshua . 
`` Well , this is a pretty piece of business , '' said Uncle Joshua , `` setting such examples as this to the neighbors . 
said Uncle Joshua ; `` if you are going to turn Whig , say so , and let us put you out of the synagogue at once , and be done with it . 
said Uncle Joshua , `` and try and get up some enthusiasm . 
`` Now , Uncle Joshua , I 'll tell you what 't is , '' said Sargent Joel , straightening himself up jest as he used to at the head of the company in Nullification times , says he , `` I 'll tell you what 't is , Uncle Joshua , I 'm willing to vote for Gineral Pierce to help you to keep the Post-Office , and I mean to ; but you need n't ask me to hurrah for him , for I ca n't stand no such tom-foolery as that . 
Uncle Joshua turned away , looking rather down in the mouth , and saying , `` he did n't know what the world was coming to . '' 
These things has kept Uncle Joshua very uneasy along back , and before our State election , which came along last Monday , he got quite narvous ; and he aint no better yet . 
I went over this morning to help Uncle Joshua figure up . 
He was setting to the table with his spectacles on , and the papers spread all round him , and a pen in his hand , and a dark scowl on his brow . 
He was thinking so hard he did n't seem to know when I come in . 
Says I , `` Well , Uncle Joshua , how are we coming out ? '' 
`` I 'm afraid we are coming out at the little end of the horn , Major , '' said Uncle Joshua , and he looked up over his spectacles so pale and melancholy it made me feel bad . 
Says he , `` I do n't like the looks of it a bit ; the State is on the back track again towards Whiggery , jest as 't was when Harrison came in . '' 
`` Oh , I guess not , '' says I , for I wanted to cheer him up as much as I could . 
Uncle Joshua shook his head . 
`` That do n't amount to nothin ' at all , '' said Uncle Joshua ; `` a good many thousand of temperance Whigs voted for Hubbard , and a good many rum Whigs voted for Chandler ; and when the Legislature comes to meet Crosby will stand jest as good a chance to be chose Governor as any one of 'em , and better too if the State goes over the dam , the 2d of November , and you may depend it 's drifting that way , or else I 've forgot how to cipher . 
`` But , may be , Uncle Joshua , '' says I , `` the Whigs hav n't gained so much as you think for , after all . 
`` No , no , it is n't that , '' said Uncle Joshua , with a heavy sigh ; `` you may depend upon it the State has got a Whig drift . 
`` Well , '' says he , `` that do n't prove whether we shall have two-thirds or one-third in the next Congress . 
He said this with such a mournful expression that I see the tears come into Aunt Keziah 's eyes . 
She 's a good christian woman , and p688-407 she laid her hand upon his shoulder , and says she , `` Oh , Mr. Downing , pray do n't be so worried , but trust in Providence . '' 
And now , Mr. Gales and Seaton , if you can say anything to encourage us , or to relieve Uncle Joshua 's anxious mind , you would do a great kindness to your old friend , My Dear Old Friends : -- I am as happy as happy can be , and Uncle Joshua is a great deal happier . 
You remember I told you in my last letter how Uncle Joshua and I found Sargent Joel , some time before the election , out behind the barn , standing on a stump , and swinging his hat and hollerin ' , `` Hurrah for Gineral Scott , '' with all his might . 
And as for Uncle Joshua , he seems to be in kingdom-come . 
It does my heart good to look at him , he seems to be so satisfied . 
He says the good old Jackson times is coming back agin , and the Bank , and the Tariff , and Internal Improvements has got to stand from under , or else be swamped . 
`` But , '' says I , `` Uncle Joshua , we haint got no Bank now , so it ca n't stand from under , nor be swamped nother . '' 
`` Well , that ai n't nothing at all to the argument , '' says he . 
`` Well , Uncle Joshua , '' says I , `` you ask me as puzzlin ' a question as Bill Johnson did t ` other day . '' 
says he . 
Uncle Joshua rolled up his eyes , and says he , `` Major , you aught to be the last man to say that arter working as hard as you did to help Gineral Jackson kill the old Bank monster . '' 
`` Well , Major , '' said Uncle Joshua , `` I s ` pose you see deeper into statesmanship than I do , and I do n't know but you 're about right . 
I could n't help thinking about this last remark of Uncle Joshua all day , and finally I begun to feel as though ' twasmy duty to write to the Gineral . 
Uncle Joshua thinks you 'd better take one out of each party that went for you , and give 'em all a fair chance . 
Old Hickory himself got rather tired of his before 't was over . 
Uncle Joshua always says , in nine cases out of ten it costs more to rob an orchard than it would to buy the apples . 
I 've been hunting and hunting over the papers , from all parts of the country , that come to Uncle Joshua 's Post-Office , to try to find out what paper is Gineral Pierce 's organ ; but the more I hunt the worse I am off , and the darker and more puzzlin ' the question grows . 
Finally , arter consulting Uncle Joshua about it , he said I 'd better write to you , for you would know as much about it as anybody , and if there was an organ you could send my dispatch to it , and if there was n't , you could put it in the Intelligencer -- and for his part , he always thought the Intelligencer was about as good as an organ to put anything into . 
I got home last week , and have been overhauling the newspapers , and having talks with Uncle Joshua , and larning how things is gitting on . 
When I got home I says to Uncle Joshua , says I , `` Uncle , I want you to lend me a hundred dollars , and I 'll give you an order on the President for it , to take it out of my salary ; for I 'm agoing to take a tower to Europe with my commission of Minister-Gineral , to see that England and France puts a stop to that Russian war , and I 've got to get a bran new rig for a court dress . '' 
Uncle Joshua laughed , and says he , `` Major , you can save yourself all that trouble and expense . 
So I subscribe myself in haste , your faithful friend and well wisher , Dear Gineral : -- I got back from my tower in Europe yesterday , and found Uncle Joshua and Aunt Keziah , and Cousin Nabby , and Cousin Sargent Joel , all well ; and I hope these few lines will find you enjoying the same blessing . 
But I understand now that organs is getting to be as plenty as blackberries , and that seems to be lucky about this time ; for , if what Uncle Joshua tells me is all true , it will need a good many of 'em to play tunes to suit all parties . 
I never believed that the same tune would satisfy the `` Hards '' and the `` Softs '' of New York ; and from what Uncle Joshua tells me , it 's jest so . 
He says the organ has been pouring out delightful strains of harmony all summer ; but the more it poured 'em out , the greater was the discord between the Hards and the Softs , till finally it worked them to a pitch of phrenzy , and he says they are now fighting and pullin ' caps like mad . 
We aught to be going ahead with this business as fast as possible , for Uncle Joshua says the party has got into a terrible snarl , and nothing but a grand coop-da-tatcan get 'em out of it . 
He says Collector Bronson , of New York , has lost his head , owing to a little misunderstanding between him and Mr. Guthrie . 
Uncle Joshua says it is a very misfortunate business , and has thrown the whole party into a high fever . 
But Uncle Joshua says he do n't think the party is out of danger yet . 
And there 's poor old Uncle Joshua , Postmaster of Downingville , I find he 's getting old and timersum too . 
When I got home to Downingville and told the family I was going to fit out the Two Pollies , and be off the next day to take Cuba , Uuncle Joshua was struck all of a heap . 
`` Oh , no , '' says I , `` Uncle Joshua , I aint going to undertake any of your low fillibusterin ' ; I 'm only jest going out to take Cuba man-fashion , because our country ca n't get along without it , and self-preservation , you know , is the first law of nater , and because old Spain keeps insulting of us and wo n't pay up . '' 
`` But do n't you see , Major , '' says Uncle Joshua , `` if you go to take Cuba , you are making war upon Spain ; and you ca n't do that according to the Constitution . 
`` But you 're mistaken there , Uncle Joshua , '' says I. `` Did n't Mr. Polk make war upon Mexico ? '' 
`` No , by no means , '' said Uncle Joshua . 
`` Oh , no , '' says he ; `` Congress haint declared war , because it would be in the papers , and I should a seen it . '' 
And then I took the dockyment out of my pocket and showed it to him , signed by Mr. Buchanan , and Mr. Mason , and Mr. Souley . 
`` Why , Uncle Joshua , '' says I , `` we find it in that clause where it says ` I take the responsibility . ' '' 
So I remain your old friend and Minister at Large , and Captain of the Two Pollies , Dear Uncle Joshua : -- I have jest got back from Washington , where I have been for the last fortnight watchin ' the old ship of State layin ' tu in a sort of three-cornered gale of wind . 
But do n't you be frightened , Uncle Joshua ; she wo n't go down , but will live through it , and go on her voyage by-and-by all right . 
So here I am , Uncle Joshua , aboard the Two Pollies . 
