I danced with Charles Cameron . 
Kate Livingston and myself danced with him an equal number of times . 
This Charles , I am told , is a young man of talent . 
It was at the mansion of Mr. Livingston , where Julia sojourned the greater portion of her time , that she became acquainted with Charles Cameron and Bartholomew S. Calvin , -- the latter being the nephew and heir of the king of that portion of the Delaware nation which remained upon the seaboard ; a lad of mournful spirit and great meekness , upon whom Dr. Witherspoon , of the College at Princeton , had resolved to bestow a classical education . 
Would she see Charles 's father ? 
Who could he be ? 
`` You mean the young Cameron ? '' 
`` And who was with him ? 
His totem is on the tree at the crossing , a tortoise , like mine . 
His name ? '' 
`` We call him Bart Calvin , '' said Ringo . 
`` His name is Shawuskukhkung , '' said Brandt , without other emotion than a slight sneer of contempt . '' 
Thayendanegea , too , can write with the quill , as well as his brother , and we have corresponded . '' 
`` I have often heard him speak of thee , '' said Julia , from habit using the terms employed in the family of her guardian ; `` and he loves thee as a brother . '' 
But doubtless the flowers she had found , and the interpretation of the hieroglyphics she had seen , and which she had been taught by Charles to render into good English , were reproduced in her slumbers . 
Brandt had not revisited it since the days of his early youth , and then Charles was with him . 
Charles turned uneasily on his couch , and muttered in his dream the following words : -- `` I am no Indian ; I have no savage blood in my veins . '' 
Brandt started forward with a horrible scowl , snatched the tomahawk from his belt , and flourished it menacingly over Charles 's head . 
But the next moment the shining weapon was replaced , and the young Mohawk resumed his meditative attitude . 
At length a smile illuminated the handsome features of Brandt , and , taking a reed from his bosom , played one of the tunes familiar to the ears of Charles when gliding over the smooth surface of the Ontario or floating in the canoe on the waters of the gentle Wyalusing . 
At the conclusion of the strain Charles rushed forth , and , with the words , `` Brother ! '' 
Charles had been loved and treated quite as well as the lost son and brother whose place he had been chosen to fill . 
No word of lamentation for the dead had been uttered in the family after the first month of his adoption . 
`` Let us not discuss those things , my brother , '' said Charles . 
cried Brandt , springing to his feet . 
`` The Great Spirit made it white , '' said Charles . 
asked Charles . 
`` I feared so , '' said Charles , despondingly . 
`` I will die in peace by the graves of my fathers on the sea-shore , '' said Wilted Grass , his head drooping on his breast . 
said Girty , in the English language , to young Cameron . 
`` I shall remain at home in peace , if possible , '' said Charles . 
And , Girty , '' he continued , in a low tone , `` beware what you do . 
`` Once more , my brother , '' said Brandt , approaching Charles , `` I ask you to go with us . '' 
said Charles . 
And Charles and his Delaware companion followed soon after . 
said Charles , and the chief rode furiously away . 
`` Dey call him Cameron . '' 
She was not really in love with Charles , but she admired him , and she had reason to believe the friendly feeling was reciprocal . 
During the first week of her sojourn at her forest-home , Julia had been visited by Charles ; and they laughed heartily over the subject of his picture and flower-writing , which had been so mysterious or unmeaning a thing to Richard and his unsophisticated parents . 
Charles and Julia had been aware of the frequent conferences held with Mr. Green , the surveyor , but could never have supposed the discussion referred to themselves or could in the slightest degree affect their interests . 
Charles and Julia sallied forth , accompanied by the faithful Solo , to witness a spectacle which Richard had promised them , -- an idea originated by Richard himself , and inspired , as he said , by the desire to exhibit something that would be magnificent in Julia 's eyes . 
Charles , no doubt , would be willing to accompany her . 
Charles and Julia stood upon a knoll a few hundred yards distant from the scene , and Solo lay at their feet . 
During the hush that prevailed in the moment of expectation , a whippoorwill , frightened from the field , perched upon a rock in their immediate vicinity and uttered his monotonous wail . 
Ever and anon a panic-stricken hare bounded past , which Solo would pursue no farther than he could see it by starlight . 
exclaimed Julia , releasing Charles 's arm , and clapping her hands together . 
Charles lifted it up and replaced it , gently encircling her form with his arm The trunks of the gigantic trees , charged with inflammable resin , soon presented great columns of fire , rising high in the air . 
Solo looked at the face of his mistress , and uttered a piteous whine . 
`` And really , Julia , '' said Charles , gazing at her delicate features , `` you are very pale . '' 
she exclaimed , starting back and clinging involuntarily to Charles . 
Julia , '' said Charles , `` it is a full quarter of a mile distant . '' 
Yet it is hardly necessary , '' said Charles , yielding to Julia 's inclination to depart . 
`` But , '' he continued , somewhat sadly , as they proceeded slowly toward the house , `` the horrors of both a civilized and a savage warfare may be in fearful proximity , and we should be prepared for the worst . 
`` Thou hast been witnessing a grand scene , Charles . 
`` It was a fine sight for Julia , '' said Charles ; `` but I have witnessed larger conflagrations . '' 
But I desired to speak with thee , Charles , in relation to thy father . '' 
`` I will signify your wish , sir , '' said Charles , somewhat gravely ; `` but you must be aware that my father never goes into company , and , consequently , that he can not be desirous of receiving visitors . '' 
His man , McSwine , had been sent twice a year to New York , from whom , of course , nothing could be learned ; but it was inferred that he carried the precious metal with him to exchange for coin , with which the expenses of Charles , at Princeton , were defrayed . 
After a rather embarrassing pause , caused by the surprise of Mr. Schooley , Charles departed for the humble residence of his father . 
Julia repeated the opinion of the elder Cameron as it had been expressed by Charles . 
`` Did Charles tell thee so ? '' 
`` He said he had faith in his father 's judgment , '' replied the startled girl . 
`` And Charles is decidedly of the opinion that the Indians will generally espouse the royal side . '' 
`` And Charles 's opinion is correct , '' said Mr. Green . 
After relating to Julia the manner in which he had obtained the friendship of the Indians , Mr. Green withdrew , promising to attend Mr. Schooley during his interview with the elder Cameron . 
After partaking of the viands in silence , Charles broached the subject of erecting a better habitation . 
His motive , he delicately hinted , was the comfort of his parent , and not a matter of convenience to himself , for he had been accustomed to the rude wigwam of the children of the forest . 
And he regretted that his indulgent parent had not used a portion , if not the whole , of the money expended on him at college , in the erection of a better tenement . 
`` I might have a better house , Charles . 
Charles then delivered the message from Mr. Schooley , and repeated the request that a meeting might be had at an early day . 
A startling frown darkened the pale brow of his father ; but it vanished when he learned the object of the Quaker 's pursuit was merely gold , and a smile of derision parted his lips . 
said he , `` the Quakers retain but a limited portion of the Old Testament . 
Close the door and barricade it , '' said the old man ; and then , turning to his son , while Hugh lighted a torch , -LRB- for no particle of the glittering sunlight now penetrated the hut , -RRB- he proceeded : -- `` Charles , you have no doubt met with many of your name and country . 
`` But , father , can it be possible that I am a lineal descendant of the lords of the clan Cameron ? '' 
cried Charles . 
`` Was not the ` Gentle Lochiel , ' as his prince called him , stricken down on the fatal field of Culloden , as had been predicted by the Highland seer ? '' 
`` Then he must be living still , '' said Charles . 
`` He does , '' said his father . 
said Charles . 
Charles threw his arms round his father 's neck , and long remained silent . 
`` Yes , '' continued his father , gently disengaging himself , `` I am the Gentle Lochiel , and thou art my son . 
said Charles . 
demanded Charles , with a burning blush suffusing his face . 
`` It was not without my permission , Charles . 
said Charles . 
`` Charles shall know all . 
The torch was then extinguished , and Charles was amazed to behold the subdued rays of the sun falling across the passage revealed within . 
In silence he followed his father , and the next moment was standing in an elegant room , with an arched ceiling , through which the rays of the sun were streaming in a hundred places . 
The lid was lifted , and Charles beheld several bags of coin . 
said Charles , with firmness . 
Charles was impatient to deliver the answer of his father , but paused near the door of the hut , and carefully surveyed the premises . 
Charles directed his steps toward the abode of Julia with feelings very different from any he had hitherto experienced . 
His hatred of the king became inextinguishably violent , and he was glad he had resisted the artful suggestions of Governor Franklin . 
`` That is a watermelon-vine at your elbow , Paddy , '' said Charles , laughing very heartily . 
`` But you are cultivating it in a most singular way , '' continued Charles , much diverted on finding the imported gardener had driven a long stake in the ground and wrapped the vine around it . 
`` Paddy , '' said Charles , `` when the Indians get you , if you tell them that tale it may save your scalp . '' 
`` I would n't spind my breath on such blackguards , '' was Paddy 's reply , as he proceeded to detach the vines from the poles , and muttering something about the `` falthiness '' of permitting fruit to grow on the ground . 
And , while Mrs. Schooley 's foot was in rapid motion at the little wheel , furnishing the threads for the loom , Julia and Charles wandered away toward the grove near the end of the lane . 
`` Oh , pray do n't be too liberal , friend Richard , '' said Charles . 
Charles read the meaning , and not only understood the number of warriors that had been engaged , but the name of the tribe which had conquered . 
He could not tell when the conflict had taken place , but it was evidently at a remote period . 
he exclaimed , upon lifting his eyes and beholding recently-made figures on the smooth bark of the sycamore , `` a Seneca chief has been here within the last twenty-four hours ! '' 
`` Charles , you know I have ever esteemed you ; but I can not promise . '' 
`` He possesses the power of withholding my fortune until I arrive at a certain age , if I marry without his consent . 
But I promised my father to be guided by his advice until I had attained my majority , and , you know , long years must elapse before the fulfilment of that period . '' 
`` I do , Charles ! 
said Charles , pressing her hand against his heart . 
demanded Charles , leaping up and grasping his tomahawk , which he had carried in his belt after hearing the history of his father . 
And the youth hurled his tomahawk at the head of the intruder . 
Julia uttered a scream at the moment , and strove to defeat his aim . 
`` Sir , you could not be the first , '' said Charles ; `` and I defy thee still , although unarmed . '' 
`` And you have learned the sentiments of one of them , '' said Charles , smiling . 
said Charles . 
Charles had not gone many paces before he was overtaken by Moody . 
`` He and Mr. Green have visited Mr. Cameron , Charles 's father . '' 
`` And be careful that you do not again play the eavesdropper , '' said Charles ; `` for Hugh McSwine has a sharp tusk . '' 
`` Do not irritate him , Charles ! '' 
said Julia , clinging with increased tenacity to his arm . 
`` Julia , '' said Charles , in a sad tone , `` that man is the only witness to our vows . '' 
`` No , Charles . 
Before the dinner was over , and when even Mrs. Schooley herself was smiling at the idea of the Irish gardener planting poles for the watermelon-vines to run on , -LRB- an account of which Charles was entertaining the family with , -RRB- Paddy himself made his appearance in a most unlooked-for manner . 
He sprang into the room and overturned the table , over which he fell , sprawling to the floor . 
Before any one had time to demand an explanation , he bawled out , `` Indians ! 
asked Charles . 
Charles stepped to the door and uttered a friendly call in the Seneca language ; and the solitary Indian , who had so much alarmed the gardener , approached from the position he had occupied when Paddy beheld him , and from which he had not moved . 
Paddy hesitated and squirmed a great deal , but yielded when told by Charles that if he refused to extend his hand it might be considered as a token of hostility . 
The Indian wore upon his garments a great many bears ' - claws and porcupine-quills ; and behind , hanging from his feathered head-dress , was the skin of a large rattlesnake , reaching nearly to his heels . 
The rattles were still on the lower end of it , and at every motion of his body they gave forth the startling sound so terrifically familiar to the ears of the first settlers of every portion of our country . 
When he had finished eating , Mrs. Schooley lighted his pipe , and Charles smoked with him . 
`` My Seneca brother , '' said Charles , in the Indian language , `` has threatened the White Eagle . 
The Seneca promised to deliver the message , and at the same time declared that Thayendanegea was entirely ignorant of what had been done to offend his brother . 
Charles learned from this Indian , who was but a minor chief , that the colonists had taken the fort at Ticonderoga , and that preparations for war were being made everywhere in the North . 
`` My friend , '' said Cameron , with a smile , `` your labour will be fruitless if it is the design to suppress the Sons of Liberty . 
As for you , sir , '' he continued , addressing Moody , `` go back to the miserable cave which is the repository of the plunder taken by thee in the name of the usurper styled King . 
And thou , son of the forest , '' he continued , turning to the Indian , `` fly far beyond the trail of the white man . 
Render that into his own language , '' added he , speaking to his son Charles , who had silently joined the party , and was now standing beside his father . 
The chief listened attentively -- as Indians ever do -- to the speech intended for the ears of his race . 
When it was finished , he merely replied that all the lands and rivers had been given to the red man by the Great Spirit , and he would be unworthy the gift if he fled before the invaders from beyond the broad water . 
Charles was indignant , and so greatly excited , it was with difficulty his parent could restrain him from making a desperate assault on Moody . 
He then entered his hut , and laid before Charles some papers he had just received from New Brunswick by the hands of one of Hugh 's runners , -- a red-haired boy , of an idiotic appearance , but of reliable shrewdness , called Skippie . 
By these documents Charles learned that he had been appointed captain of a company of minute-men , to be raised in his county . 
`` Now you are invested with quite as much authority , '' said the elder Cameron , smiling , `` as the Quaker guardian of Julia Lane . '' 
`` It seems so , sir , '' said Charles ; `` but I shall be embarrassed in the exercise of it . '' 
cried Charles , starting up . 
asked his father , in some concern . 
`` Stay , '' said his father . 
He seems to snuff the foe , '' he continued , when the whining animal was called in and the lighted torch revealed his gleaming eyes as he crouched beside the door . 
said Charles . 
`` They would depart in peace , if I would only accompany them , '' said his father . 
exclaimed Charles . 
Charles was permitted by his father to prize the ponderous stone door slightly open , so that they might readily escape in the event of a sudden emergency . 
`` They must have abandoned the project , '' said Charles , breaking the silence which had prevailed for some moments . 
`` Perhaps not , '' said his father , rousing from one of the prolonged reveries to which he was addicted , and taking up one of the jewelled pistols that lay on the table , which had been presented him by the unfortunate Charles Edward . 
`` The devil 's name would be quite as potential here as the king 's , '' said Charles ; `` but neither will avail . '' 
said Charles , and then fired his rifle through the door . 
`` Father , '' said Charles , `` as they have a great superiority of numbers , would it not be well to summon our friends from the hills ? '' 
said the elder Cameron . 
asked Charles , to whom it was apparent they were not resorting again to the heavy timber with which to force the door . 
`` They will try to burn us out , '' said his father , in a whisper . 
`` They may destroy the hut , '' said Charles , `` but not injure us . '' 
`` They can do no more than burn the outside shell , '' said his father , smiling . 
In the morning Charles was eager for an immediate pursuit . 
Yielding to the counsels of his parent , Charles strove to suppress the deadly rage he felt , but harboured a settled determination to punish the knavish miscreant on some future occasion . 
He then aided in rebuilding the hut . 
During the day , and as the news of the assault spread over the country , it was gratifying to Charles to receive tenders of assistance from many persons hitherto total strangers to him ; and it soon became apparent that Moody had but few sympathizers and abettors in the neighbourhood . 
This was a cheering sign , and Charles lost no time in communicating to the people the substance of the documents he had received from the Colonial Convention . 
Emboldened by such indications , Charles commenced canvassing for volunteers , and before the eve of the third day he had the names of forty `` minute-men '' enrolled on his list . 
His sergeant was a herculean Irishman , by the name of Timothy Murphy , -- a well-digger up the county , whose life had been saved by Charles when in the hands of the Indians . 
One day , leaving Tim in charge of the recruiting service , the head-quarters and rallying-point being in the vicinity of his father 's hut , where a temporary encampment had been built both for the shelter of men and horses , Charles set out in the direction of Mr. Schooley 's plantation . 
Charles was surprised , when approaching the smithy of Van Wiggens , now in full blast , to find a sign hung out in front of the dwelling with a huge bear roughly painted on it . 
asked Charles . 
Charles shook hands with the poor hen-pecked blacksmith , and promised not to forget him and his dog . 
He soon after fell in with Richard Schooley , resting on his plough in a corner of the fence . 
`` Richard , '' said Charles , seeing his nod of salutation had not been returned , `` what makes thee so grum to-day ? '' 
said Richard , seeing Charles about to move on . 
ejaculated Charles . 
Charles put spurs to his steed , and never paused until he reached the stile in front of the dwelling . 
He was met in the entry by Julia , who chanced to be passing out , accompanied by her faithful dog . 
`` Meet me at the sycamore , '' Charles whispered , as he passed on to accost Mr. Schooley , whose approaching step his keen ear had detected . 
`` Good-morning , Charles , '' said Mr. Schooley ; `` I have wished to see thee on serious matters , '' he continued , as he led the young man into the sitting-room , where Mrs. Schooley 's foot was propelling the incessant spinning-wheel . 
`` I am sorry , Charles , '' said Mr. Schooley , when they were seated , `` that thy father is truly the rebel laird who waged war against the King of Great Britain . '' 
said Charles . 
`` Very good , Thomas , '' said Charles , quickly ; `` and if you remain of that opinion long , you and I will concur in honouring the Congress , which will soon be omnipotent . 
`` I say , '' continued Charles , `` so surely as thy wheel has ceased to revolve , Mary , a great revolution has begun in this country . '' 
`` Yes , thou art greatly in error , Charles , '' said Mr. Schooley ; `` and I desire thee to pay particular attention to what I am going to say . 
Thy father hath resisted the king 's authority -- '' `` Certainly , '' said Charles ; `` he resisted the king 's claim to the throne . '' 
`` I think , Thomas , '' said Charles , `` that thou art moved now by the right spirit , and that thou wilt do well in yielding to its monitions . '' 
`` But then , Charles , thee knows , if I would keep myself entirely aloof from implication , there must be an utter severance between every member of my family and those who foolishly embark in the rebellion . '' 
`` Be not uneasy on my account , '' continued Charles ; `` but tremble for thyself . 
By these orders it is my duty to require thy signature to this , '' continued Charles , placing a form of the Declaration on the table ; `` and power is given me to arrest those who decline it , if they do not give security for their good conduct . 
I do not believe that Thomas advised the attack on my father 's house -- `` Thee speaks truly , Charles , '' said Mr. Schooley . 
`` That is just , Charles , '' said Mary . 
`` What does thee mean , Charles ? '' 
`` Whatever might have been the intention , the result was most lamentable , '' said Charles . 
Charles then mounted his horse and galloped to the sycamore overshadowing the Council Rock ; and when Richard joined his parents a few minutes after , and learned what had been said in relation to him , he could only stare in blank amazement . 
Julia had been some time awaiting Charles . 
`` Your guardian will be quiet now , Julia , '' said Charles , exhibiting his papers and assuming an air of authority . 
`` Gentle Moonlight , '' said Charles , with emotion , `` lost her husband in battle , and her only child , a little son , sickened and died . 
`` No , '' said Charles ; `` it is not permitted for those of the same totems to marry . '' 
`` But then , '' he continued , `` my forest sister 's totem is the turtle , or tortoise . '' 
When the Blue Pigeon recognised Charles , after a long pause , he sprang forward and clasped him in his arms ; and , upon being informed that Julia was the Antelope of whom he had doubtless heard Brandt speak , he offered his hand , and uttered the word `` sister '' in good English . 
`` Now , my brother , '' said Charles , `` my ear is open . 
`` Blue Pigeon , my brother , '' said Charles , `` you have seen the dew-drops fall from my eyes when you repeated the words of my mother . 
Charles remained in a profound reverie after Blue Pigeon had departed , which even Julia did not seek to break until the silence became painful . 
`` Precisely , '' said Charles . 
He galloped away , while the maiden , with a throbbing bosom , gazed after him until he vanished from her sight . 
PADDY TOMAHAWKED AND SCALPED -- CHARLES STARTS ON HIS JOURNEY WESTWARD . 
Ashad been predicted , William Livingston had been appointed governor by the people 's Colonial Legislature ; and at the moment when Skippie was admitted into his cabinet the governor was inditing a letter to Charles , urging him to make an excursion into the Indian country for the purpose of ascertaining the intentions of the tribes regarding the war with the mother country , which was now waged in earnest ; so that the visit of the young man to the fondly-remembered scenes and friends of his youth was to meet no impediment in that quarter . 
And soon after Skippie 's return the father of Charles yielded a reluctant consent to the journey . 
Charles met her almost daily at the sycamore-tree , and was still beguiled of many weeks which might have sufficed for performing the journey . 
These accounts , so far as it regarded the readiness of the Iroquois to commence active hostilities immediately , were discredited by Charles . 
He rightly attributed them to the instructions of Moody and other tories , issued by the agents of the crown as a means of keeping the people in continual alarm and preventing them from sending succours to the American army . 
One day , when Mr. Schooley , Julia , and Charles were sitting in the hall , where the hum of the small spinning-wheel and the bang of the loom assailed their ears , they were startled by the entrance of Rose , who , with dilated eyes , said Paddy was mad -- stark , staring mad -- in the garden , and was then dancing . 
He was followed by Julia and Charles and the Newfoundland dog . 
`` It was a joint-snake , '' said Charles , looking down at the writhing particles of its body . 
`` And , Paddy , '' said Charles , `` keep a good lookout for Indians . '' 
Paddy set off in a brisk trot , while the rest , amused , gazed after him . 
He had not gone more than fifty paces before he stumbled against the teeth of a rake that had been left lying on the ground . 
The handle flew up and struck him a smart blow on the back of his head , and , uttering a piercing cry , he fell forward on his face and lay quite still . 
Supposing the man might be injured by the blow , Charles and Mr. Schooley hastened to him , while Julia followed at her leisure . 
asked Charles . 
demanded Charles , endeavouring to turn him over so that his face would be visible ; and , after several efforts , he succeeded . 
`` If you are dying , Paddy , '' said Charles , `` be kind enough to tell us what killed you . '' 
he yelled . 
said Charles , after a burst of hearty laughter , in which Julia joined , and which could not be wholly resisted by the sedate Thomas . 
Charles , upon examination , found he had received a slight contusion , from which flowed a few drops of blood . 
`` Here , Paddy , '' said he , `` is the Indian . 
he continued , rising to his feet . 
Months had now passed since Charles had promised to visit his Indian foster-mother , and he still lingered in the valley where dwelt his father and Julia . 
His father , having at first given permission for the journey with great reluctance , at length urged him to set out , since Governor Livingston desired it and he had pledged his word to make the visit . 
Charles decided to resume his Indian dress ; and , as Julia superintended its completion , it may be presumed it was not deficient in tasteful decoration . 
But , about the time of the departure of Charles , he was recalled to the plantation of his patron to act again in the capacity of overseer , in the place of Peter Shaver , who had been his successor in office , but who , becoming dissatisfied with his Quaker employer , as it was supposed , or his wages , had absconded . 
And so Van Wiggens was now relieved of the tonguelashings of Mrs. Van Wiggens during the day , and was a curious witness of the preparations made by Julia for the decoration of the young chief , as Charles was often termed . 
And more than once he took occasion to intimate that , if Peter Shaver should return before the day appointed for commencing the journey , he would rather go into the Indian country with the White Eagle than return to his wife . 
Charles had taken leave of Julia under the sycamore-tree , decked in his elegant Indian costume . 
His head-dress was surmounted with white feathers ; his buckskin coat , leggins , and moccasins , were studded with beads and spangles , or stained porcupine-quills . 
His embroidered blanket was folded carefully and strapped behind the saddle , on which he sat with the erectness and grace peculiar to the Indians and those who have dwelt among them . 
He had his rifle , his tomahawk , a dirk that McSwine had thrust into his belt , and -- what was shocking to some of the inhabitants -- a scalping-knife . 
Charles , directing his steed toward the west , disappeared in the forest , followed by the cheers of his friends and by the light pursuing step of Skippie , the sandy-haired boy , of whom it was said he never spoke with his tongue so much as by his looks and features . 
Oncemore in the solitude of the forest , Charles loosened the reins and permitted his noble steed to walk leisurely along the narrow path . 
The doe and her spotted fawns emerged from the tangled thicket , and drank of the cool limpid water at the gurgling brook ; and the sun rode gloriously over all in a cloudless sky , gladdening the myriads of joyous insects that basked in its genial rays . 
His noble steed , too , had been reared among the Indians , and seemed to have an instinctive knowledge of the direction his rider wished to pursue ; for Charles had long ceased to notice the ancient encampments , the intersecting paths , and the moss upon the northern side of the trees . 
Nevertheless , after drawing rein and dismounting to prepare his diminutive encampment , Charles became aware of his location . 
He had descended the western side of the Blue Mountain , and was now upon the narrow bottom of one of the small trout-streams emptying into the Delaware , some few miles distant . 
No fears were entertained of the faithful animal deserting him . 
Charles was at no loss in the forest to provide for his comfort . 
With his tomahawk and knife the framework of his camp was soon completed . 
The small forks and poles were furnished by the thicket fringing the base of the mountain ; while the dry bark torn from the trunk of a gigantic hickory-tree sufficed for the roof to shelter him from the dew , and also for fuel with which to cook his simple repast . 
The rear of the camp was protected by the trunk of a large fallen tree , and at the opposite end the fire was kindled ; and , while his meat hung before the crackling fagots , he gathered rushes from the margin of the brook and elastic twigs from the pendant boughs , with which he prepared his couch . 
While partaking of his frugal meal , the young man several times observed his horse lift up his head and look in the direction of the thicket already referred to . 
The animal exhibited no signs of alarm , and always , after gazing a moment , resumed his browsing . 
Charles did not suppose it an object worthy of attention . 
For a brief interval Charles remained perfectly still and silent , for he had acquired the Indian habit of suppressing the symptoms of any sudden emotion . 
he demanded . 
Skippie did his bidding in silence . 
This youth -- or rather dwarf , for the wrinkles on his forehead indicated that he had long since passed the age of adolescence -- was one of the clan Cameron , and had joined his exiled laird in Canada , and acted in the capacity of page to his mistress until her death . 
Afterward he became a constant attendant on the exile , and Charles was aware that he had been of great service to his father in procuring news from distant points , -LRB- for , although exceedingly small , he was very active , and seemed insensible to fatigue , -RRB- and in warning him of approaching danger on several momentous occasions . 
And not the least valuable of his qualifications as a runner -- a term familiar in the Indian country -- was his uniform taciturnity . 
He heard every thing ; but nothing was ever learned from him by any but his chief or trusted persons of his household . 
Toward morning Charles awoke and rekindled the fire , but did not lie down again . 
Perceiving that Skippie had likewise finished his slumber , he beckoned him to approach . 
`` Skippie , '' said he , `` I have been dreaming of my Indian mother . 
`` An angel , '' he repeated . 
`` Go , '' he replied , with one of his affirmative nods . 
When the sun was midway in the heavens , Charles faintly heard a hallooing , and , as the sound appeared to be in the direction he was pursuing , his pace was quickened . 
The cry seemed to proceed from one in distress , and Charles knew it was not an Indian . 
Presently he detected the recent footmarks of a man in a path that crossed the one he was following ; and , as the halloo was still heard at intervals on the right , he dismounted , and , throwing the reins to Skippie , proceeded cautiously in that direction . 
The practised eye and steady hand of Charles sufficed for the emergency . 
Almost as instantaneously as thought , the report of his rifle rang through the woods , and the panther lay struggling in its death-throes at his feet . 
And even then the animal might have inflicted a serious wound had he not been despatched by the dirk of Skippie , who bounded forward and stabbed him to the heart in the midst of his convulsive flounderings . 
said he ; meaning that he had stabbed other panthers and escaped their claws . 
`` But it was not the voice of a panther we heard , Skippie , '' said Charles . 
said Charles , descrying the form of a man in the same tree the panther had occupied , but upon a perpendicular branch some twenty feet above the forks , which he seemed to be hugging with desperate tenacity . 
asked Charles , seeing the limb , which was without lateral shoots , swaying backward and forward under its heavy burden . 
`` Slide down , sir , '' said Charles . 
`` Quite , '' replied Charles , lifting up one of the feet of the animal and displaying its enormous but harmless claws . 
`` The mother is never out of hearing , '' said Charles , `` when her young are basking in the sunshine . 
Charles Cameron is your name . 
`` And now farewell , Mr. Jones , '' said Charles . 
asked the preacher , detaining him . 
Charles then removed the skins from the animals , while Mr. Jones informed him of all his recent peregrinations . 
And he stated , in a confidential tone , -LRB- for he remembered that Charles had organized a company on the right side , -RRB- that he bore , secreted on his person , a commission in the army as chaplain , and was then on duty -- that which had been assigned him . 
He had passed through the Yankee settlement on the Wyoming , where , although the people were pretty good whigs , they treated the preacher with less respect than the Delaware Indians on the beautiful Wyalusing . 
The Rev. Mr. Jones , at Charles 's urgent solicitation , mounted the horse ; while the agile young man , having had a taste of his old sport , and finding his appetite still unsatisfied , proposed making a short hunt through the woods for a fawn , or a fat young buck , which might be eaten at that season . 
He had drawn forth a pistol from beneath his black buckskin coat , and was taking a steady aim , when the turkey fell headlong to the earth , his neck almost severed by the rifle-ball of Charles , who had approached Mr. Jones to request him to cease singing , as it frightened the deer . 
`` I am glad to see you again , '' he added , as Charles stepped forward with a smile on his lip . 
asked Charles ; while Skippie sank down and rolled over in convulsions of suppressed merriment . 
`` At least , '' said Charles , comprehending the mistake of the Baptist , and having no disposition to undeceive him . 
said Skippie , through his tears of silent laughter . 
asked Charles , seeing the reverend gentleman replacing the weapon in his bosom . 
`` I can explain it , Mr. Jones , '' said Charles . 
Here the turkey was dressed and cooked by Skippie , while Charles stretched and dried his panther-skins . 
He did not explain ; but Charles attributed his conduct to the force of habit , knowing it to be unsafe in many places to utter such patriotic petitions . 
Charles turned his face in the direction of the intruder , so unerringly indicated by the horse , and gazed steadfastly , while Skippie prostrated himself and applied his ear to the ground . 
whispered Charles , raising his rifle noiselessly . 
said Skippie , rising , and unsheathing his dirk . 
`` I am only in readiness , '' said Charles , endeavouring to fix his aim . 
But he did not raise his gun . 
On the contrary , his head , scalp-lock and all , sank down and vanished behind the slight embankment , and the next moment his voice was heard , saying , in very good English -- `` Do n't shoot ! 
`` He is , at least , in Indian costume , like myself , '' said Charles . 
demanded Charles . 
asked Mr. Jones , seeing Charles 's diversion . 
said Charles . 
cried he . 
`` Suppose you begin with me , '' said Charles . 
Know that Charles Cameron is no blackguard , to fight with his fists like the degraded bullies of the ring . '' 
`` Charles Cameron ! 
Charles remained silent in troubled meditation . 
They were approaching the village where the foster-mother of Charles often spent the summer , and in the neighbourhood of which she held a large tract of rich land inherited from her mother . 
Charles paused , and , placing his hands over his mouth , uttered the loud halloo he had so often sounded in his youth when returning from distant expeditions with the sons of the chiefs and sachems . 
Soon there was a reply which produced an animated expression of pleasure on his handsome features ; and , as they drew nearer the village , numbers of men were seen running toward them through the beautiful grove in which the town was situated . 
The foremost of those who came out to receive the adopted son of Gentle Moonlight was Calvin , the young Delaware chief who had been educated with Charles at college . 
demanded Charles . 
Very soon the news of the voluntary return of the White Eagle spread through the village ; and , when led by his friends to one of the principal wigwams , he was clasped in the arms of his foster-mother , who held him long in silence , while the Brown Thrush , smiling and weeping alternately , sang one of the wild songs Charles had so often listened to with delight . 
`` My sister , '' said Charles , when released from the embrace of his mother , and at the same time kissing her tearful cheek , `` thou hast not forgotten the words of thy brother when we parted many moons ago . 
`` My son , '' said his foster-mother , after a short silence , during which the musing maiden made no reply , `` the warriors of the nations are assembling at the Great Island , between the broad lakes , -LRB- Ontario and Erie , -RRB- where the council-fire is burning . 
`` My mother , '' said Charles , `` your words sound like music in my ear , and I will obey thee . '' 
Then , while a sumptuous repast was in preparation , Charles regarded his Indian mother and sister in silent admiration . 
Bartholomew Calvin , the young Delaware chief , who sat beside Charles , had lingered among the lakes much longer than had been anticipated ; and the Thrush was the magnet which attracted him . 
Charles could not avoid perceiving it , and he knew not whether to be angry or pleased with his friend for presuming to love his sister . 
But there were no indications of his passion being reciprocated ; and it was not to be supposed that either Gentle Moonlight or the passionate Brandt would promote the alliance , unless the `` Tamed Terrapin , '' as they called him , or the degenerate son of the Algonquins , would throw away his Christianity or his civilization and take up his abode among them in the forest . 
Our party were welcomed to the Great Council by Brandt himself ; and a vast number of Charles 's old playmates , now chiefs and warriors , crowded round him and renewed their professions of friendship and attachment . 
But Charles perceived with regret the greater number of white men mingling with the Indians were British agents . 
Charles was then permitted by the aged chiefs , as a special act of courtesy , to follow his foster-brother . 
He said he could not agree with his brother . 
He was in favour of a strict neutrality , unless the Indians should be unanimously inclined to join the Colonies -- a thing he did not look for . 
Sir John Johnston ridiculed the idea of permitting boys to speak in council , but admitted that the mother of Charles had a right to send him there . 
He controverted what had been said with indignant warmth . 
The two missionaries , and the foster-mother and sister of Charles , as well as Charles himself and the redoubtable `` Popcorn , '' were in the midst of the former . 
In the evening Brandt came alone to the tent of his aunt , and sat down in gloomy silence between Charles and his sister . 
`` Oh , my brother , '' said his sister , `` do not go with them to Oswego . 
`` No , sister , '' said he , sadly . 
`` The White Eagle is free , '' said Charles , `` and may soar whithersoever he chooses . '' 
said Charles . 
said his aunt , speaking for the first time , although she had been an attentive listener . 
said Charles . 
said Charles , with tears in his eyes . 
`` My brother speaks no fables , '' said Charles , pale , and deeply moved . 
`` It will be so , '' he replied . 
`` And that was old Esther , '' said Charles . 
`` My brother , '' said the Delaware chief , Calvin , who had hitherto remained a silent listener , addressing Charles , `` I will remain with you , or we will go together , whithersoever the great Ha-wen-no-yu , or our Holy Father , may direct our steps . '' 
Shortly afterward , Charles was roused from his abstraction by the quiet entrance of Skippie , who stood before him and said -- `` Going ! '' 
And before Charles could utter another word Skippie was gone . 
Shortly after this , Charles was again startled by a tremendous uproar among the boys . 
When this reached the ears of the foster-mother of Charles , she had her tent removed to a place of greater security , where it was surrounded and guarded by a number of Delaware warriors ; and early in the morning our party set out , in a southern direction , toward the head-waters of the Alleghany . 
Gentle Moonlight , Brown Thrush , Charles , the young Delaware chief , the Rev. David Jones , and Peter , formed the party . 
Although a prisoner , Charles was permitted to retain his arms , having given his word that he would not attempt an escape for the space of seven days . 
The weather was fine , and the journey , although easy and pleasant , -LRB- for the foster-mother of Charles was rich , and had been lavish in expenditure when providing for the comfort of her children , -RRB- was devoid of special incident until the party crossed the dividing-line between New York and Pennsylvania . 
Here they rested while canoes were sought in which to descend the Alleghany River ; and here they were informed by a runner of the approach of Julia , guarded by two Mingo chiefs , who could speak the English language , and who had been charged , as the runner assured Charles , to provide for all her wants , and to prevent her from suffering the slightest bodily inconvenience on the journey . 
Charles and Bartholomew Calvin explored the mountains and streams in the vicinity , and admired the bold features of the country . 
And it was during one of these excursions with gun and angling-rod , that Calvin confessed -- what Charles had already suspected -- his passion for the sister of Brandt ; and at the same time expressed the sad conviction -- which was evident to all -- that the Thrush was deeply , blindly in love with the Eagle . 
Charles said every thing in his power to encourage and comfort his friend , assuring him that , whatever might be his affection for his foster-sister , or her attachment to him , they could never be united . 
She was the Antelope , loved by Charles , whom they loved , and therefore they must love her too . 
It is true , according to their code of morals , a chief might have more than one wife ; but they were not ignorant that Charles , during the process of his education , had adopted the Christian faith , and would be governed by the laws of the race from which he was descended . 
It was while thus engaged in the deep solitude of the silent grove that Charles once encountered her . 
He had left Calvin and Peter fishing up the stream , near the camp of the seven guards of Queen Esther . 
`` My sister , '' said he , sitting down at her side on the bleached trunk of a fallen tree , then checkered by the straggling rays of the morning sun , `` you will be kind to your white sister , will you not ? '' 
Charles despaired of convincing her of the superiority of the customs of the white people ; and , after a protracted silence on his part , while the Indian maiden resumed her song and plied her delicate fingers in the fabrication of an exquisitely-ornamented pair of moccasins for Julia , he resumed : -- `` But , my sister , hast thou not seen that thy brother 's friend , the young Delaware chief , was fascinated by the song of the Thrush ? '' 
` He would not wrong his friend . 
He would rather perish . '' 
`` My sister , '' continued Charles , `` I say these things to thee that thou mayest be prepared for the events of the future . 
Charles , half amused and half vexed at the argument and devotion of the child of nature , ceased the discussion . 
He was startled , however , soon after , by the arrival of Peter Shaver , bearing in his arms a very young bear-cub , which kept up a piteous crying for its dam . 
Then , in reply to the same question from Charles , he said he had not seen the dam . 
`` Stop the cub 's cries , Peter , '' said Charles , `` or else you may feel the weight of the mother 's claws before we can kill her . '' 
`` Climb a tree , '' said Charles , amused at the efforts of Peter to shake off the cub , `` or else kill it . '' 
But the Delaware youth , who had followed to see the result of the experiment , and Charles , who did not relish a closer proximity to the old bear , fired their rifles nearly at the same moment , from opposite sides , and both with effect . 
asked Charles , advancing carelessly . 
`` Take your tomahawk or knife , '' continued Charles , seeing the bear was quite dead . 
`` No , '' said Charles ; `` you must distinguish yourself before you can become a great Indian . 
`` You have conquered , '' said Charles . 
added Charles . 
Charles had been informed by the Indian who had made the exchange with Peter , that it was his startling braying , whenever he got the scent of blood , which rendered it necessary to part with him . 
Up this path Charles and the Indian maiden ran , hand-in-hand , to meet the captive ; and when they turned an acute point of one of the ridges , round which wound the path , meandering with the stream , they beheld the object of their solicitude . 
Rushing forward , Charles clasped his affianced in his arms , and , when relinquished by him , she was as heartily embraced by the Indian maiden . 
`` Oh , Julia , '' said Charles , `` I did not think , when we parted , we should meet again in such a place as this ! 
`` Her voice is like the warbling of the robin or the sound of dancing waters , '' said the Indian girl ; and Charles rendered it into English . 
`` Let us now hasten to the tent of my Indian mother , '' said Charles , leading the way . 
he continued , seeing a white man following , the two chiefs having halted with Queen Esther 's guard . 
Paddy ran forward and prostrated himself before Charles , whom he had not recognised ; for Julia , with maiden modesty , not wishing him to hear that which might be uttered on her meeting with her lover , had directed him to remain some distance behind . 
said Charles . 
If Charles is not one , this lady is . '' 
`` I beg yer pardon , miss , '' said he , addressing the Thrush ; `` it was only an Irish slape o ' the tongue . '' 
After interpreting the speech , Charles informed Paddy that the Indian lady did not understand English . 
They were met at the threshhold of the encampment by the foster-mother of Charles , who tenderly folded Julia in her arms , and placed her on the seat of furs which had been provided for her . 
She gazed long in admiration of the features and form of the white maiden ; and then , turning to Charles , said she was very lovely , but that he must not permit her to estrange him from his forest sister . 
`` Perfectly ; and Irish too , '' said Charles . 
Charles and Mr. Jones interposed , and after a few words of peace and explanation the two old acquaintances became reconciled , and sat by the fire the remainder of the evening relating their marvellous adventures . 
That assurance , Charles , bereft me of half my terrors . 
And yet a painful thought flashed through my mind -- '' That I had , perhaps , resolved to become an Indian again , and might be violently tearing thee away from thy home , '' said Charles , smiling . 
`` Something of that nature , I admit , '' said Julia ; `` but it flitted away like the gleam of the lightning , and the Mingo assured me you knew nothing of his proceeding . 
The object of his employer was to prevent you from returning and bearing arms against your red brethren . 
But they assured me his wound would not prove fatal , though it had been their intention to kill him . 
I fell asleep and dreamed of thee , Charles , and the Indian maiden , and a scene like this . 
Charles and Calvin sprang up and listened attentively . 
said Charles . 
Charles went forth alone in the direction from which the yells at first proceeded , and sounded a horn his father had given him . 
The next moment the rescuing party advanced , and were soon greeted with the animated congratulations of Charles . 
cried Charles . 
Charles cordially grasped the hands of the rest of the party -- some five or six in all -- who had accompanied McSwine . 
Charles led his friends into the tent of his Indian mother , where Julia gave utterance to the thanks she felt for the pursuit , and where the Indian maiden and her aunt had already prepared for them a plentiful repast . 
Peter Shaver , Paddy Pence , and Will Van Wiggens , surrounded by the three or four clansmen of the Cameron who had followed McSwine , formed a separate group some paces apart , and entertained each other with the recital of their exploits . 
`` Now , Hugh , '' said Charles , when the last bone had been picked , `` you will tell me the news of the valley , and first of my father . '' 
said Charles ; and McSwine uttered a hearty Amen . 
The faithful Scot informed Charles that the capture of Julia had produced great consternation in the neighbourhood , and for several days after the occurrence it seemed doubtful whether a party could be formed to go in pursuit . 
`` You shall have one of my pistols , Paddy , '' said Charles . 
Charles , and Calvin , and Hugh , followed by the rescuing party of Scots , rushed at once to the narrow pass above , which , if successfully defended , closed the principal avenue of access to the encampment ; for it was defended in other places by almost precipitous cliffs . 
This request was refused by Charles , because the guard had been the first to fire , and because the whites were his friends , and were pursuing the Indians who had captured the unoffending maiden . 
`` I see you have many brave men , '' said Charles , `` but we have warriors quite as bold to meet them . '' 
`` We have Oneidas , Cherokees , and Shawnees in our camp , '' said Charles . 
And while Charles awaited the result of the consultation , Paddy Pence came running toward him , nearly out of breath , and very pale . 
Do n't trouble me now with your idle dreams , '' said Charles , making an effort to assume a severe gravity . 
Leaving the Highlanders under McSwine posted in positions to command the pass , Charles , who had been beckoned away by his foster-mother , slowly walked toward the tent . 
`` The Brown Thrush is very kind to her pale sister , '' said Charles , advancing in obedience to the desire of his foster-mother . 
`` Unless detained as a prisoner , '' said Charles . 
After a long silence , during which both Charles and Julia scanned with amazement the ingenuous features of the Indian girl , the latter asked the Thrush if she had not said she loved her white sister , and if she could really be induced to take her life if assured it would not grieve the White Eagle . 
Charles and Julia only gazed in astonishment , mingled with painful forebodings . 
said Charles , with emphasis . 
Charles , being informed by his Indian mother that a messenger from Queen Esther awaited him at the pass , hastened in that direction . 
`` I know him well , '' said Charles . 
He then walked boldly forward , and accepted the hand which Girty offered him . 
`` I suppose , Mr. Girty , '' said Charles , `` you are prepared to announce the decision of Esther 's council . '' 
`` We have at least conjectured what might be the decision of our enemies , '' said Charles , `` and we are prepared for any contingency . '' 
`` The few we have to oppose them , '' said Charles , `` are prepared to die in defence of the white maiden and those who pursued her captors . 
demanded Charles . 
The facts , as stated by Girty , were undeniable , and Charles did not attempt to controvert them . 
`` Then what song , '' he asked , `` has Girty to charm the ears of the Cherokees ? '' 
`` Then I suppose there was no sale , '' replied Charles , `` if the company had no right to buy . '' 
Charles had not heard of these transactions , and they might be as Girty said ; and , if so , the hostility of the Southern Indians would certainly follow . 
`` Then there are the Delawares and the Oneidas , '' said Charles . 
`` I did not come hither , Girty , '' said Charles , `` to listen to your speeches . 
said Charles , seeing Girty hesitated ; `` for that will be the sentence . '' 
asked Charles . 
said Charles , `` so they do not molest us . 
exclaimed Julia herself , who had besought the Indian girl to conduct her to the scene of conference , and had been led noiselessly round the cliff to where Charles and Girty stood . 
Charles signified his approbation by a proud smile . 
He knew not whether Julia had heard the first proposition ; but , if she had , it was quite apparent she would not accept her enfranchisement on the terms proposed . 
But neither he nor Charles had correctly estimated the powers of Girty , McKee , and Elliot , who represented in the wild woods the military chest of Great Britain . 
Charles and the Rev. Mr. Jones , desirous of hastening to the place designated for the meeting of the grand council , urged forward the preparations for departure . 
The Cherokees and Shawnees , as well as other Western Indians sojourning at Chillicothe , although they were very kind to the aunt and sister of Brandt , and friendly to Charles , Calvin , and the missionary , Mr. Jones , did not seem to regard the other captives with the respect which had been hoped for . 
Charles and Julia were silent spectators of the scene , which was solemn and impressive . 
With a becoming gravity of face , a dignified step , and the song of praise issuing from his mouth , the preacher went down into the water ; and , the requisite responses being uttered , and no one forbidding , the ceremony of baptism by immersion was duly performed . 
`` Now , Charles , '' said Julia , `` what good effect will that produce ? '' 
`` They believe , '' said Charles . 
`` And now , Charles , the Thrush is a Christian ! '' 
`` We will escape , Julia , '' said he , in a low tone , -LRB- for James Girty , the brother of Simon , was , as usual , standing near them , and probably endeavouring to learn the subject of their conversation . -RRB- 
Julia had scarcely entered the house of Gentle Moonlight when Charles heard the halloo of a small party of warriors returning from the South . 
From the sounds , he understood they had a prisoner and one scalp . 
He soon after saw a young man of herculean frame led into the town . 
He was not made to run the gauntlet , for as yet war had not been formally declared , although it certainly existed . 
`` You are to be an Indian , '' said Charles , who acted as interpreter . 
Charles , after speaking to the squaw , said she was not yet prepared to announce the lucky man of her choice . 
asked Charles . 
Now , Charles had rapidly translated such portions of this speech as best suited his purpose , which , together with Paddy 's menacing attitude and gestures , produced a prodigious burst of merriment . 
Diving Duck , comprehending what had passed between Paddy and Peter , turned her ugly face toward the latter and uttered a torrent of vituperation which it would have been difficult for Charles to render into intelligible English ; but the purport of it could hardly have been mistaken even by a dog . 
`` She says , '' continued Charles , `` that she thanks you for resenting the vile aspersions of the Yankee Popcorn , the chief of the asses , and a thousand other pleasant things I am unable to translate in this modest company . 
And when we are both wrapped in the flames , Pater , '' he continued , doubling his fists and assuming a boxing attitude , `` I 'll give you a taste of the science by way of dessert to the fry ! '' 
But , when he relinquished his hold , Charles announced to the disappointed multitude that the ceremony of fire would have to be substituted for that of water , as Diving Duck would have neither of them for her husband . 
At this juncture Van Wiggens , who had been a contemplative spectator of the scene , stepped forward and whispered to Charles that , although he did not fear burning at the stake half so much as he did the scathing tongue of Mrs. `` Wan Viggens , '' if it would not be bigamy and subject him to the penalty of the law , he was willing to save his two friends from death by becoming himself their father and the husband of the furious squaw . 
Boone and Charles , however , attended the candidates under the tree . 
`` Certainly , '' said Charles ; `` do n't you see they are prepared to do so ? '' 
`` You must submit without complaining , '' remarked Charles , with a seriousness well affected , when the girls again seized their hands and led them toward the edge of the water . 
asked Charles . 
asked Charles , observing the Connecticut man plunged in deep abstraction . 
`` Oh , you may be a Christian , '' said Charles , `` if you can be content to put up with one wife . '' 
And without the least delay he ordered his wife to prepare a dozen roasting-ears for his dinner , which being translated by Charles , the old squaw went away grumbling , doubtless to obey the command . 
Boone and Charles superintended that portion of the ceremony , and in a very short time the two new Indians -- one Dutch and the other Irish -- were strutting proudly through the streets . 
During the dusk of the deepening twilight , Boone and Charles , who still lingered on the margin of the river , espied a slight movement in a tuft of blackberry-bushes at the edge of the embankment and not exceeding six paces from where they sat . 
It was Kenton , who had succeeded in secreting himself while the Indians were enjoying their sport , with the intention to effect his escape as soon as it grew dark ; but , fortunately , hearing the project of Boone and Charles , he wisely and nobly relinquished his purpose of immediate flight . 
He knew his disappearance would subject the rest of the prisoners to a stricter vigilance , and might cause the death of some of them . 
said Charles , upon learning his motive . 
Charles led him into his own tent , where none could intrude . 
`` You will not betray me , I know , '' said Charles ; `` and therefore I have brought you hither to make known our secret . 
The words of his uncle still sounded in his ears , and the haughty reply another might have uttered died within him . 
Without speaking , he pressed the hand of Charles and withdrew . 
Boone , Kenton , and Hugh McSwine were with Charles in his little tent communicating with the large one which contained the rest of the male prisoners . 
It was now near the time of departure , and Charles grew impatient for the signal Julia was to give . 
Charles started up , but instantly resumed his recumbent position , knowing that Julia would not come from that direction , stepping over the bodies of the men . 
`` No , '' said Charles . 
at length was uttered by him , as he placed a number of letters in Charles 's hand . 
said Charles . 
But I have no time now to read the letters , '' he added , thrusting them in his bosom . 
demanded Charles . 
he said , with apparent satisfaction . 
asked Charles . 
A handful of sand thrown against the tent was the joyful signal Charles had been waiting for , and the moment he heard it his keen knife glided noiselessly down the canvas . 
He stepped out , followed by Kenton , who was to precede him to the place where the horses had been concealed . 
It was a starlight night , and the form of Julia , easily discernible , was encircled by the arm of Charles , who led her softly away in the direction the guide was pursuing . 
They were just opposite the last house , and supposed there was no further danger of interruption and discovery , when a man ran out from the hut and stumbled against Charles and Julia . 
Boone 's knife was uplifted , and in the act of descending , when his arm was arrested on recognising a well-known voice . 
he continued , when jostling Charles ; and , seeing Boone 's raised arm , cried , `` To n't ! 
said Charles , placing his hand on the amazed Indianized Hibernian 's mouth . 
`` One is enough , Paddy , '' said Charles . 
said Charles , gazing steadily at the excited countenance of the Scot , for they were now crossing a small prairie , and the stars were shining brightly , `` you remained behind . 
asked Charles . 
cried Charles . 
Boone was silent during the remainder of the night , riding by the side of Hugh and just behind Charles and Julia . 
Charles , being familiar with the habits of the savages , informed Julia that their pursuers would not start on their trail until daylight , and could not possibly overtake them before they reached the Ohio River , some fifty miles distant , if they met with no delay and could keep their horses going until the next day at noon . 
Neither Boone nor Charles , however , seemed to attach so much importance to the agency of horses as Kenton did . 
Charles , however , snatched some wild fruit as they rode through the thickets , which sufficed both for the maiden and himself . 
Charles perceived that the Indians were astonished at the apparition of such a cavalcade . 
In answer to their inquiry , Charles said his men were a party of adopted prisoners going to Kentucky to hunt buffalo . 
Charles said he believed some were retained for the torture , and had been taken to Sandusky , where they would probably be burned at the stake , as their captors had painted them black . 
Charles said they had not yet decided his fate , nor Boone 's . 
`` One he borrowed , '' said Charles , in the Seneca tongue . 
He said the horse was his own , -- one he had left at home for his squaw to keep in good condition . 
He intended to ride him the next spring , when they invaded the white settlements in Pennsylvania . 
He then ordered Kenton to dismount . 
But Boone and Kenton -LRB- Charles did not fire at all -RRB- were more fortunate . 
Charles and Boone and Hugh McSwine , seeing what had passed , concentrated the most of their men near that point , knowing the Indians would make a desperate effort to bear away their dead . 
Several of them darted forward to scalp the Scots , but were driven back by the fire of Boone and Charles , one of them borne off by his comrades mortally wounded . 
The rest of the Indians rushed past , Kenton himself being forced to fly before them , until they were opposed by Boone , McSwine , Charles , and their brave comrades , who sprang from their trees and offered battle hand-to-hand . 
Charles understood the purport of the yells and whoops of the discomfited savages . 
said Charles . 
Charles rode at the side of Julia , a little in advance of the rest , and their course was over the eminence in the plain where they had at first discovered the Indians . 
Julia was very pale , for she had seen the dead Scots placed on the horses ; and , as they still bled quite freely , Charles directed them to be kept behind , that no traces of their gore might be seen in their path . 
`` That part is true , '' said Charles , with a slight smile . 
cried he , darting past Charles and Julia , and evincing the greatest terror on beholding an Indian child crouching in the tall grass near the path . 
`` The poor infant , '' said Charles , pausing , `` has been placed there by its mother , not supposing we would pass in this direction . '' 
`` No , '' said Charles . 
And he did so , in a loud voice , in the Indian dialect . 
cried Julia , seeing the valorous Indian-fighter aim his pistol at the flying woman and pull the trigger . 
`` Och , it 's not loaded , Miss Julia , '' said he . 
`` This is a specimen of life in the wild woods , Julia , '' said Charles , `` such as you have heard related during winter evenings before the cheerful fire . 
`` And have you not killed some of them , Charles ? '' 
The maiden blushed , but did not chide him ; and she determined , if she escaped death in the wilderness , to preserve in writing a narrative of her adventures . 
`` They will be likely to pause at the scene of the recent action , '' said Charles , `` when they learn its disastrous result . 
But soon after Hugh McSwine and Skippie -LRB- the latter still having the bundle he had brought from New Jersey -RRB- came up at full gallop ; and Skippie , pausing an instant near Charles , said -- `` Hedid ! '' 
demanded Charles . 
Charles turned his head and beheld Hugh , some few paces behind , stretching a scalp on a hazel-hoop as he rode along . 
Charles saw the necessity of repelling their pursuers , but did not urge it . 
`` I heard two , '' said Charles . 
`` Unluckily , Paddy , '' said Charles , blowing the smoke from the barrel of the reverend gentleman 's weapon , `` Mr. Jones 's pistol is empty this time , and yet warm from the recent discharge . '' 
But when he laid hold of the Indian , finding he still breathed , he sprang back in alarm and begged the loan of a rifle or tomahawk to dispatch him . 
Julia and Charles sent for Skippie , resolved to read the letters he had brought from their friends . 
But Skippie was nowhere to be found , although he had been seen since twilight . 
Disappointed in this , Charles and Julia congratulated themselves upon the prospect of a speedy deliverance from their perils . 
said Charles . 
`` They are not our pursuers , at all events , '' said Charles . 
And , when Skippie had described them and the location of their camp in his laconic but graphic manner , Boone announced without hesitation that it was a party from Paint Creek going over into Kentucky on a predatory expedition ; and , no doubt , the object of their attack was his station on the Kentucky River , called Boonsboro ' . 
But this was objected to by Charles , and the Rev. Mr. Jones was designated for that purpose . 
said Van Wiggens ; `` if tey hurt a hair of my Vatch -- '' `` You must not speak so loudly , '' whispered Charles , who brought up the rear , stepping in the footprints of Paddy . 
`` It is often the post of honour , '' said Charles . 
Charles could distinctly hear poor Paddy 's heart palpitating violently when they were midway on the huge trunk and the word to halt was whispered back along the line . 
Charles reached forward and placed his hand on Paddy 's mouth . 
continued Paddy , as Charles succeeded in dragging him out of the stream by the heels . 
`` Open your eyes , '' said Charles , inexpressibly diverted . 
said he , opening his eyes . 
`` Not one remains to hurt you , Paddy , '' said Charles , who still heard the distant yells of the flying enemy . 
`` We are safe now , my young friend , '' he continued , addressing Charles , `` at least for some days to come . '' 
`` True , sir , '' said Charles , quickening his pace , and with difficulty keeping at the side of Boone , whose giant strides usually impelled him forward beyond his companions ; `` and I am extremely thankful for it . '' 
Julia was placed in one of the canoes and rowed over by Charles . 
At every stroke of his oar the poor girl 's spirits rose , and her eyes sparkled in unison with the glittering drops that fell from the oars in the moonlight . 
They spoke of their friends and homes in New Jersey , -- of Charles 's Indian mother and sister , whom they loved and pitied , but did not regret being separated from them , -- of the beautiful country and pleasant climate they were about to enter , -- and of the means of returning thence to their Eastern abode . 
The event was announced by three loud huzzas from Kenton ; and , striking a light , his locality was marked by a great bonfire on the southern shore . 
Then an impromptu dance of victory followed , in imitation of one of the exultant ceremonies of the Indians , at which Charles smiled but faintly , for he thought no good could result from thus wantonly exasperating the enemy . 
Nevertheless , the eyelids of Charles and Julia were not oppressed by slumber . 
It ran as follows : -- `` Esteemed Julia : -- If this should reach thy hands , thee will be informed that thy guardian and friends have been sorely grieved at thy capture and at the supposed privations thou hast been exposed to in the wilderness ; and thou wilt learn that it is not credited by thy guardian and others that the Indians were the authors of thy abduction ; but we think it was the work of thy pretended friend , the rebel -- '' `` That must be me , '' said Charles . 
`` He is not deceived , Julia , '' replied Charles . 
Yes , '' she continued , reading : -- `` Rebel , Charles Cameron . 
`` Richard loves good eating as well as his sweetheart , '' said Charles . 
Charles then read a brief letter from his father , charging him to take care of himself and to remain true to the cause of the tyrant 's enemies . 
He said it was probable the armies and fleets of the usurper would seem to prevail at the commencement of the conflict , but that the cause of justice would triumph in the end . 
He charged his son to suffer no uneasiness on his account . 
There were men anxious to effect his capture , set on , he believed , by Mr. Schooley , for he was in correspondence with the British , and had already caused some beeves to be driven to them on Staten Island : but they would not succeed . 
His few Scots remaining with him were vigilant , and his little fortress impregnable . 
Besides , it was believed by many , since he escaped burning , that he bore a charmed life . 
His health was good , and his hours were pleasantly passed over the pages of Shakspeare and the productions of other sons of genius . 
Charles then , his eyes suffused with tears and his bosom swelling with reverence and affection for his parent , would have prevailed on Julia to seek the refreshing repose he fancied she stood very much in need of . 
But he knew not the extent of the capacity of the sex for prolonged watching , and she merely smiled at his solicitude and declared that no slumber would visit her eyes if she were to lie down ; but she would be silent while he slept , and guard his peaceful repose . 
This he objected to , and begged her to read the remaining letter , -- an epistle from Kate Livingston , marked `` Liberty Hall , near Elizabethtown Point . '' 
`` Do you hear that , Charles ? '' 
Read on , '' said Charles . 
Charles heaped fresh wood on the fire , and prevailed on her to sleep until the breakfast should be prepared . 
He knew that the meat for her repast was then living and would have to be found and killed ; so she would , in all probability , have ample time for refreshing slumber . 
He likewise sought repose himself at the side of the deeply-breathing Mr. Jones , who sometimes uttered prayers in his sleep , but more frequently sang snatches of the Psalms of David . 
`` The mineral springs , '' said Charles . 
he continued , addressing Boone . 
Boone remained with Charles and Julia , having no disposition to partake of the sport . 
`` There is no danger here , '' said Charles , breathing freely . 
And , after a hasty aim , he fired at the moving mass of animals , the nearest of them being only some fifty paces distant . 
he cried , `` I 've kelt a dazen at layst . 
He had , indeed , by a lucky shot , brought one of them down , and many of the rest fell over him . 
Julia and Charles , and all the weary fugitives , were now in a place of comparative security . 
On the present occasion , when the history of Charles and Julia became known , and the sanguinary adventures of Hugh McSwine were related and the horse-stealing feats of Simon Kenton duly confessed , a belief prevailed that a more determined and desperate attempt to destroy the settlements would be made than any hitherto experienced ; and preparations were made accordingly . 
`` You mean Charles . 
You can not annoy me by alluding to him . '' 
And yet , Julia , '' he continued , in faltering and softened tones , `` you may reveal it to Charles , if he will promise not to seek me during the next twelve hours , in the event of rejecting my offer . '' 
`` You have been weeping , '' said Charles , late in the evening , observing Julia 's abstraction while the rest were singing merry songs . 
Charles became very pale , and long remained silent . 
`` Skippie , '' said Charles , gazing at the imperturbable features of the mysterious messenger , `` how did you get in ? '' 
said he , his gestures indicating that he had entered over the roof without being seen by the sentinels . 
`` Going , '' said he , pointing eastward . 
`` He will take any letters we may write , Julia , '' said Charles . 
But in truth , Charles , I will not injure my eyes . 
Charles returned to his room to prepare his letters , and Julia likewise hastened to perform her task . 
Afterthe appearance of Brandt , Charles , accompanied by such of his party as were disposed to go with him , made several excursions round the fort , always ending at the river . 
But no traces of Indians were discovered , and he concluded his forest brother must have come alone , crossing and recrossing the river at the fort . 
cried Charles , rushing into the area full-armed , and habited as an Indian . 
said Charles -- `` they 've taken her too ! '' 
said Kenton , striding in front of Charles and gazing steadfastly in his face . 
And Julia clung to Charles , while Mary wept with joy on the breast of her father . 
Boone and Charles deposited the girls in the place of security , and ordered the men to post themselves behind the trees out of the light of the fire . 
When the gray morning appeared , Charles left his tree and approached the shelter which concealed the girls ; and the first object that attracted his gaze was the form of Paddy . 
Charles roused him with a smart blow , and the Irishman sprang up and stared in amazement . 
Julia , in the exuberance of her recovered spirits , amused Charles and the rest with a recital of the information she had received from Peter regarding the inconsolable Didapper so cruelly deserted by her lord ; and poor Van Wiggens was heartily congratulated upon his escape from the frying-pan . 
They were interrupted by the entrance of Boone and Charles , with excited countenances . 
`` Be not alarmed , Julia , '' said Charles , taking her cold hand . 
Boone and Charles understood their purpose , and succeeded for a long time in restraining the more impetuous and less experienced of their friends from pursuing the enemy . 
`` I do n't believe any are now on the west of us , '' said Charles . 
Charles and Kenton followed the foe until they made a stand in the thick woods , when Boone sent them word -- himself remaining at the spring , supplying the garrison with water -- to desist from the pursuit . 
In the course of the day the besiegers were reinforced by several straggling parties ; and on each occasion the accession was announced by a particular halloo , well understood by Charles . 
`` That was the fierce howl of the Senecas , '' said Charles to Julia , whom he had briefly joined . 
`` I think not , '' said Charles . 
`` If it is Kenton 's favourite steed , '' said Charles , it must be recovered , or its master will be lost . '' 
When Charles accompanied Paddy to the gate , which was held partly open to admit of ready ingress if Simon should return with his steed , he beheld a spectacle which riveted him to the spot . 
cried Charles . 
This order was obeyed with alacrity and complete success on the sides where Boone and Charles and Kenton commanded . 
It was just at this distracting moment , when the battle was won and the enemy were flying in all directions , that the ears of Charles were assailed by a familiar voice , and , looking in the direction whence it proceeded , he beheld , issuing from the cane on the west of the fort , the form of his forest sister . 
shouted Charles , seeing several of the men aiming at the advancing girl . 
He threw open the gate and rushed forth to meet her , at the same time speaking in a loud voice , and in the Indian language , to the enemy , beseeching them to spare the sister of Thayendanegea . 
until she fell upon the breast of Charles , who , turning , bore her through the gate into the fort , where they were instantly surrounded by eager spectators . 
The poor Indian girl was weltering in her gore , inanimate , but with her arms still clasped round the neck of Charles . 
gasped Charles , on beholding the wound in the breast of the poor girl , `` who could have done this ? 
said Charles , weeping over his forest sister . 
Charles followed the preacher with his burden , the arms of the wounded girl still clinging to his neck ; and , when gently deposited on a couch , her consciousness returned , and , upon recognising the features of the one she loved , a sweet smile spread over her face . 
`` My poor sister , '' said Charles , in broken accents , `` why did you expose your tender breast to the aim of the Seneca dogs ? '' 
`` The Brown Thrush had sung her last song , '' said she , in her own musical language , which none but Charles and Mr. Jones could fully understand . 
Charles was incapable of utterance , but wept like a child over his dying sister . 
said she , seeing the tears of Charles and Julia . 
The old hag pursued ; and when she approached the gate Van Wiggens would have fired upon her had he not been prevented by Charles . 
In this expedition he was accompanied by his brother , and by all the men from the Jenny Jump settlement excepting Charles and Paddy . 
During the absence of this detachment the fort was too much weakened to be abandoned by Charles ; and his eagerness to return to the Delaware river had to be repressed . 
In vain did he propose to read the ceremony from her own prayer-book , and to manufacture , himself , aided by Van Wiggens , -LRB- who was a blacksmith , -RRB- a ring from one of Charles 's watch-seals . 
She begged him to desist , and announced that her decision was irreversible . 
About this time , during one of the dark nights of winter , when the inmates of the garrison were assembled round the cheerful blaze on the broad hearth of the principal cabin , -- the old women spinning flax and the young ones knitting or sewing , listening to narratives of adventures in the wild woods , -- Charles was startled by hearing a pebble fall upon the roof and roll down to the ground . 
Used to such signals , he sprang to his feet and was approaching the door , when the gentle hand of Julia arrested him . 
Pale , and trembling very much , she begged him to desist . 
`` No , '' said Charles ; `` if they had captured Boone and his party they would have gone back to celebrate the event '' -LRB- which was really the case -RRB- `` before venturing farther into the country . '' 
Both Charles and Julia recognised the signal , and , uttering together a joyous exclamation , the door was thrown open , and the imperturbable Skippie stood in their midst . 
The faithful messenger was overwhelmed with hearty greetings , which he bore in silence , but with a proud expression of countenance . 
He brought , besides the packet of letters , -LRB- unsoiled , notwithstanding the inclemency of the season , and the long journey , -RRB- another accession to Julia 's wardrobe . 
To the profusion of thanks showered upon him he made no reply , and , merely uttering the word `` Virginia , '' the meaning of which was not comprehended , and pointing to the letters , as if to indicate that they would speak more explicitly , he withdrew to the kitchen , or rather the cabin where the savory viands were usually cooked . 
Charles 's letter was from his father , announcing his continued good health and the determination of France to make common cause with the Colonies . 
Murphy , Charles 's faithful sergeant , did all in his power to maintain the organization of the little band of patriots ; but many difficulties were thrown in his way . 
In short , Charles was advised to return the first opportunity . 
Such was the purport of the letter he received from his father . 
said Charles , gravely . 
Read it for me , Charles . '' 
Charles Cameron had been excepted in the recent royal proclamation offering mercy and protection . 
Charles had forbidden it . 
After lingering about the fort a few weeks , she announced her purpose of returning to her own country , and demanded of Charles an order for Paddy to accompany her . 
asked Charles , turning to Paddy . 
asked Charles . 
`` It shall be done , '' said Charles , quite anxious to get rid of the animal . 
The capture of the men at the Licks occurred late in January , and February had been appointed by Charles as the time of setting out . 
It was now feared some delay would ensue , as he could not in honour abandon the post assigned him when the opinion prevailed that the Indians would return after depositing their prisoners in a place of security ; and the distribution of the emigrants recently arrived among some half dozen forts might not suffice for their defence if a single man were subtracted . 
His design being thus facilitated , and having the repeated assurances of Julia that she would be able to perform the journey , -LRB- for she had learned many lessons in woodscraft during her sojourn in the wilderness , -RRB- Charles made preparations for an immediate departure . 
Then , taking leave of their Western friends , with many regrets for the loss of the comrades left behind them , Charles , Julia , Skippie , and Paddy , commenced the long and weary journey eastward . 
Once more Julia and Charles and Paddy were in the ancient village of Burlington . 
Charles and Skippie sat in the bar-room of the principal hotel at the junction of Main and Broad Streets . 
When Charles and Skippie entered the bar-room a party of Tories had just been drinking at the bar , and as they withdrew from the house they paused at the corner and cast curious glances back at the strangers . 
`` They are idle characters , '' he added , in a low tone , `` who do nothing but drink and pry into matters which do n't concern them . 
asked Charles . 
said Charles . 
exclaimed Brown , smiling , and enthusiastically shaking the hand of his young guest . 
`` Iam all right , '' said he , with a significant wink . 
Charles and Skippie passed through the door to which the landlord pointed , and sat down to the savoury repast . 
Just as he uttered these words , Charles , who had finished eating , returned to the bar-room . 
said the host to his young guest , pointing to another door . 
`` I have seen Julia , '' said Mr. Schooley , advancing and offering his hand , which Charles did not refuse , `` and learned thou hadst returned . 
`` My garments suit myself , '' said Charles , `` as thine do thee , friend Thomas . 
`` Murphy must collect the fines prescribed by law , '' said Charles . 
exclaimed Brown , approaching Charles , `` you know him ? 
`` That was a lie , '' said Charles . 
`` Of course they do , '' said Charles . 
`` Friend Charles , '' said Thomas Schooley , re-entering , his countenance betraying a mental struggle , `` I have returned to have a sober talk with thee . 
Pr ` ythee , Charles , listen patiently to me . 
Charles , thee thinks me a worshipper of mammon , an idolater of gold , without honour or religion . 
Charles strolled out into the stret , and , passing the Friends ' burying-ground , where so many had been laid without monument or inscription , approached the Episcopal church , -LRB- St. Mary 's . -RRB- 
The door was partly open , and he thought he heard the last notes of sacred music dying on the air . 
He paused and looked in . 
The Rev. Dr. Odell stood before the altar , with cup and plate before him , while about a dozen females knelt around the chancel . 
On that unusual day , and at that singular hour , he was administering the sacrament to a small remnant of his flock . 
Charles , yielding to the solemn impulse of the moment , strode forward and knelt among them . 
He , too , although so long a wanderer , belonged to the same flock . 
When they arose , the eyes of Charles and Julia met . 
said both Charles and Julia . 
`` Doctor , '' said Charles , `` Julia and myself are affianced lovers . 
Julia 's veil dropped down over her blushing face ; but she trembled and withdrew her hand , which Charles had seized . 
And I am as staunch a patriot as Charles . 
said Julia , quickly ; `` I do not desire you to perform the ceremony which Charles is so anxious to have consummated . 
But I do not condemn his patriotism , and I do not fear the cause he espouses will entail ruin on him . 
After lingering a few moments , Charles and Julia withdrew , and , as they strolled together toward the mansion of Thomas Schooley , they were met by that gentleman himself , very pale and anxious . 
demanded Charles . 
`` Friend Thomas , '' said Charles , `` you know John has acquired the accomplishment of lying . 
`` I am justly rebuked , Thomas , and ask thy pardon , '' said Charles . 
`` Mr. Schooley , '' said Charles , `` if you discard the Holy Scriptures , your religion is that of the heathen ; but if you be a Christian , how can you deride the commands of the Saviour ? '' 
`` Charles , '' said Thomas , as the young man paused and was about to return to his hotel , `` if thee will come and sup with us I will explain the principles of our religion . '' 
`` I will call during the evening , '' said Charles , `` and listen to thee , provided , if we should be converted , thou wilt sanction our -- '' `` Pooh ! 
After tea , Charles strode out alone to see by the moonlight the changes which had taken place in the principal streets of the old village . 
As he slowly walked along the margin of the river , between Ben Shephard 's tavern and the governor 's house , he was overtaken by Paddy . 
`` Thrue for you , Misther Charles ; and Alexander , and Saizer , and Charles the Twelfth , did n't fear man or baste ; but that did n't kape 'em out of danger . 
-- he 's gone ! 
Such were Paddy 's words as he drew near the stately mansion ; while Charles paused at the tanyard in Wood Street , and gazed at the tree under whose roots , it was said , the pirates had buried their treasure . 
But he did no such thing , for the next instant he had vanished ; and Charles , after gazing round a moment , resumed his brisk pace , and did not pause again until he was admitted into the presence of Julia and her guardian . 
When he presented himself in the apartment where Julia , Charles , and Mr. Schooley were sitting , words rolled rapidly from his tongue . 
`` Yes , Paddy , '' said Charles , holding forth the coin . 
cried Paddy , letting the candle fall , and rushing back into the room where Charles and Julia were sitting . 
He was followed by Thomas , whose face was paler than usual , and whose eyes stared wildly through the glasses of his spectacles . 
`` No one is there , '' said he . 
Charles and Julia were quite composed , for they knew Skippie was the author of the contrivance . 
`` Thee may satisfy thyself , '' said Mr. Schooley to Charles , hearing the rapping again . 
Charles went to the door , and , hearing a rustling among the branches of the large tree that stood at the curb , looked up and recognised Skippie . 
demanded Charles . 
`` Come down , and go to your room at the hotel , '' said Charles . 
Then , after a brief examination of the knocker , he discovered a line of white hairs , from a horse 's tail , reaching from the handle of the knocker to the tree . 
This he snapped asunder , and re-entered . 
`` It was an idle boy 's trick , '' said he , in answer to the inquiring eyes of Mr. Schooley . 
`` Go to bed , Paddy , '' said Charles , `` and be up early in the morning . 
-- they 'll come back in me drames , and -- '' Charles was gone . 
About the same hour that Charles retired to rest , a muffled individual emerged from the tavern , and , turning westward , proceeded along what is now Broad Street ; but at that time there were no houses west of Main Street excepting the church and parsonage . 
Leavingto the imagination of the reader the meeting of Kate and Julia and Solo -- of Charles with his father , and Paddy with everybody -- and the effect the narration of their adventures had upon the minds of the neighbours , -- it will be necessary , without delay , to proceed to scenes of a different nature , and to use the utmost privilege of condensation to confine them within the limits prescribed . 
One day , when Julia and Kate and Charles were sitting under the broad boughs of the old council-tree , in the quiet little valley where the lovers ' vows had been exchanged the preceding year , they were startled by the sudden barking of Solo , who had been panting at their feet . 
But , upon observing the faithful sentinel wag his tail , they were satisfied no enemy lurked in the vicinity ; and , a moment after , they beheld Calvin , the young Delaware chief , slowly and gloomily approaching . 
said Charles , stepping forth and tendering his hand to the young man . 
He grasped it in silence , and then saluted the ladies in the same melancholy manner . 
After this strange proceeding the young chief occupied the seat which had been offered him , and , sighing deeply , remained with his eyes fixed upon the ground . 
His affection for the lost Thrush being known and respected , no one desired to make allusion to the mournful catastrophe . 
`` We must submit without complaining to the will of God , '' said Charles . 
said Charles , sadly . 
And , to the great joy of Charles , Wilted Grass informed him that the whole party had escaped from the Indian villages , with some twenty Oneidas , and were then approaching the settlement . 
He had left them in the morning at the river , and parted with them merely to announce their coming . 
And , having performed his mission , the stricken youth rose up and vanished in the forest . 
He did not pause when they besought him to remain , nor answered a word to their entreaties . 
The girls and Charles hastened away to announce the tidings . 
But the tidings of the return of Hugh McSwine and his little band of Caledonians afforded very great satisfaction to the `` Gentle Lochiel , '' the recluse father of Charles . 
Nevertheless , his bleached locks seemed to assume a more silvery aspect and his face a more deathly pallor as he gazed upon his son 's preparations to march away again in obedience to an order from Colonel Dayton to join him with his company at Fort Schuyler , in Tryon county , New York . 
`` Charles , '' said he , `` beware of the warning ! 
`` You do not seriously believe in such things , my father , '' said Charles ; `` and I am sure it was but a feverish dream . '' 
Charles did all he could to cheer his desponding parent , and , prevailing on him to recount some of the romantic adventures of Charles Edward when a fugitive , he beheld once more the flashing eyes of the Highland chieftain . 
Julia and Kate sat in the carriage before the door of the inn , where they had been joined by Charles . 
Disgusted at his own reception , and the manner in which his dog had been welcomed back , Van Wiggens was the first of the returned party who offered to march with Charles . 
`` She has been accustomed to see her defenders in the act of fighting , '' said Charles ; `` and no doubt her presence has given additional vigour to many a sinewy arm . 
Charles Cameron , Hugh McSwine , and Tim Murphy , performed their duty in all the conflicts in which they were engaged with the enemy in fort or field , and received the commendations of their superior officers . 
Clar out , and mind your business , or Massa Charles 'll be arter you ! '' 
`` Charles ! 
He come back ? '' 
Skippie was commanded to admit Paddy when he arrived , and afterward to go in quest of Charles . 
This was hardly accomplished , when the aged chieftain , hastily closing the book from which he had been reading aloud to his fair auditors , while Paddy slumbered in oblivious security , announced the approach of Charles . 
Here they made another stand , their rifles still partially commanding the position they had relinquished , but not including within their range the ground occupied by Charles . 
Charles , convinced that his parent and Julia must be looking down from the aperture , with the location of which he was familiar , advanced into an open space , and waving his hat , was joyfully recognised by those whose prayers were unceasingly uttered for his preservation . 
He was joined soon after by Murphy , Van Wiggens , and Peter Shaver , the latter leading the ass , which he had met within the woods , and which it seemed was destined to be ever crossing his path . 
`` I can not abandon my brave men , father , '' said Charles . 
When he ceased speaking , the junction of Brandt with Moody and his Senecas was announced by the most deafening yells . 
And when the Senecas , Mohawks , and Tories returned to the cliff in such overwhelming numbers that Charles was forced to retire over the stream under cover of the intertwining thicket , the old hag , Queen Esther , stood upon the desolate apex of the knoll at the summit , waving to and fro a staff she termed her sceptre , and mumbling one of her incantations which had great influence over the superstitious minds of the savages . 
It was when Charles was retiring before the impetuous charge of Brandt , that Julia , seized with inexpressible terror , swooned in the arms of Kate . 
I thought I beheld the bleeding form of Charles borne in the arms of Brandt , who seemed to mourn rather than exult over his fall ! 
And Charles , although exposed more than any of his party , likewise remained untouched . 
`` Three times have I spared my brother 's life , '' said Charles , lowering his rifle , and stepping boldly out from behind a holly-tree . 
`` And , Thayendanegea , '' said Charles , `` I here declare that , if I survive , my voice shall be heard in behalf of my forest brothers and sisters . 
exclaimed Charles , turning his face toward the cliff , whose summit alone he could see from his position , and where he beheld the frantic gesticulations of the old fury -- who likewise heard the sound -- summoning the Senecas around her . 
He then uttered the rallying-halloo , and commanded a cessation of hostilities ; and , that his brother might not be mistaken for a doomed prisoner , he laid his arm on his shoulder , and they advanced together to the sparkling stream , where friend and foe were soon mingling in conscious security , and Charles was hailed with joy by the inmates of the excavated rock . 
The first one recognised by Charles was the Rev. David Jones , at whose solicitation the company from Wayne 's brigade had been marched in that direction . 
demanded Brandt , still encircling the neck of Charles with his arm , as if he feared the doomed victim of Esther might fall in his presence . 
`` And now , my brother , '' said he , embracing Charles , `` we are reconciled , but we part . 
His next was at Charles , who staggered forward , and would have fallen , if the great chief had not caught him in his arms . 
said Julia , sitting on the ground , with the head of the speechless and dying Charles resting against her bosom . 
she continued , kissing his lips , `` and very , very pale ! '' 
But the youth was no paler than herself as she gazed with unmoistened eyes upon his face . 
said she , when the white-headed father of Charles came forward , weeping bitterly , and would have snatched him from her arms . 
He was very kind to me , and permitted Charles to come whenever he wished . 
He was true , and I adored him ; But the cruel Queen destroy 'd him -- I must stop there to breathe , and I 'm sure you 'll wait . 
I know he 's in heaven . 
She wandered from the grave of Charles to that of his forest sister on the Kentucky River , ever accompanied by Gentle Moonlight , the Thrush 's foster-mother . 
The faithful Solo was their only protector , until age and infirmities rendered him incapable of following them . 
