Loosen the shawl , Alfonzo . 
By the time he had prepared this , Alfonzo had removed the shawl and firmly woven garments and laid bare the wound , which was an unsightly rent in the side between the ribs . 
answered Alfonzo as he raised the lifeless form of the stranger upon his shoulder and proceeded carefully to descend the steep way , the hermit following supporting his steps by the aid of the boar-spear which he had brought from the shelf of rock to return to the Moor when he should recover . 
Alfonzo bore the burden on his shoulder along the street of the hamlet , until he came to a hut constructed of stone a little apart from the rest of the habitations . 
He wore the dark brown shepherd 's rernaganand broad palm hat , and at his feet crouched a shaggy wolf dog , who upon seeing the approach of Alfonzo and the recluse , glared hls white teeth and emitted a savage growl . 
here comes Alfonzo with a dead man on his shoulder ! ' 
With these words the goatherd laid his bread and fish down on the root of the tree upon which he had been seated , and hastened to meet them . 
` He is not dead father Gaspar , ' answered Alfonzo , as he laid his burden at the foot of the tree . 
Then by the mass let us kill him ere he get to his feet again ! ' 
-- cried the goat herd drawing from his girdle the broad sharp knife that he had used in many a combat with the wolves of the Sierras in defence of his goats . 
answered Alfonzo . 
Alfonzo bear him into the hut and let him sleep . 
As he awakes give him this potion dissolved in a glass of water from the brook . 
It will restore his strength , and at the end of three days he will be able to rejoin his friends in Cordova for by his white hands and his rich costume he is of high lineage among the Moslems . ' 
With these words the venerable apostle knelt upon the threshold after Alfonzo had again lifted the body and bore in into the hut , and reverently made the sign of the cross not only upon the door-stone , but also upon the lintel and sides of the door . 
Father Godfrey now approached the rude couch of dried mountain grass , upon which Alfonzo had gently laid the Moor , and by the pleasing light of a torch of resin-wood gazed for a moment upon his pale and strikingly beautiful features . 
If he wake up before dawn , Alfonzo , speak to him kindly ; and let him not rise till I come . 
Father , I will go with thee , ' said Alfonzo , following him out of the hut , and laying his grasp upon his robe . 
Thy conduct this night has made me love thee , Alfonzo . 
With these words the hermit walked forward , and soon Alfonzo saw his white locks disappear over the verge of the path that led down into the valley . 
Slowly he returned to his hut , and entering it approached the Moor , who seemed to sleep heavily , and seating himself by his couch , began to examine with a curious eye the jewels with which he was adorned . 
While Alfonzo was admiring the richness of the apparel , and the wondrous beauty of the jewels which adorned the wounded Infidel , Gaspar , his father , sat on the opposite couch gazing moodily and silently upon the pale face of their unconscious guest . 
At length he spoke , as he saw Alfonzo examine with attention a jeweled bracelet that clasped the left wrist of the Infidel : ` This tinsel wehave to pay for , boy . 
Alfonzo fixed upon him a keen glance . 
He read his father 's thoughts and feelings , for his own bosom sympathized in them . 
He felt that his words were true words ; that the glory of the Moslem was the degradation of Spain . 
` Alfonzo , I am a poor goatherd . 
` Hear me , father , ' said Alfonzo , who saw him stretch forth his hand rudely to unclasp the dazzling bracelet from his arm . 
Alfonzo looked gratified that he had succeeded by his knowledge of his father 's character , in saving the sleeping Moor from being plundered in their hut . 
There was in the spirit of Alfonzo a vein of chivalric feeling that elevated him far above his condition ; and though he loved not the tyrant and oppressor of the land , he could be generous and superior to hostility or revenge in circumstances which appealed like the present , to the loftier sentiments of his breast . 
It was with pleasure he saw the change in the manner of Gaspar , who putting up his formidable knife , looked once more upon his guest , not with plans of robbery , but with impatient wishes for his speedy recovery . 
Alfonzo saw that the Moor had nothing more to fear at present from his father , and rising , he said , ` I will be in by and by and watch with him , till dawn . 
You need not fear me , Alfonzo . 
I am as sure of him when he gets well , as I should be now . 
If he wakes , administer what I have mixed in the cup ! ' 
I hope it is a magic drink that will put him on his feet in five minutes after as well as ever . 
Alfonzo threw on his bernish , a coarse brown mantle , like a blanket , about his manly form , and gathering it about his waist with a wide belt , to which hung a wolf 's sheathe knife , took his mountain staff and went out . 
` So has the curse of the infidel blighted all that is fair in Spain , ' said Alfonzo , as he let his eyes linger upon it as it towered over the forest , and looked yet like a strong hold of power even in its impotency . 
Alfonzo lingered an instant as he came upon this little paradise , as if fearing to disturb its peaceful beauty by his presence . 
He then , with his finger on his lip , walked softly forward , and was about to approach the window nearest to him , when a huge dog bounded from the shadow of the building , and without a voice , other than a low , fierce growl , leaped towards him , as if he would rend him . 
But , ere he made the second bound , he crouched at his feet and whined recognition . 
Alfonzo patted the shaggy beast upon his head and then tap ped at the window , by the side of which hung , like trophies , rather than for present use , an old shield and two or three sheathed yatagans , belonging to the owner of the cottage . 
It is three days -- three long days , Alfonzo since I have seen you . ' 
` How I tremble when I reflect upon your dangers at such times , dear Alfonzo , ' said the dark-eyed girl , looking up into the face of her lover with beaming eyes that seemed moistened with tears of affectionate solicitude . 
Would that you could turn to some other pursuit , my noble Alfonzo . 
Oh , that you would listen and be persuaded to -- ' ` Not a word more , Genilla , ' he said playfully , yet firmly ; ` I know what you would say . 
` You should , for my sake , seek the service of the Emir , ' she continued warmly . 
` If thon lovest me , Alfonzo , thou canst not hate my people ! ' 
Alfonzo led her gently along a narrow walk , bordered with wild flowers , which wound round the cottage , and thence held its serpentine way up the mountain . 
` Would to Allah thou wert a true believer , Alfonzo ! ' 
exclaimed Alfonzo , with amazement . 
He came about a quarter of an hour ago . 
I was in my lattice singing to my littah when I beheld his tall , majestic figure crossing the green to the door . 
I trembled , I hardly knew why ; but since he used to come and talk to me of Christ , I have feared him . 
Are not you and I proof that they may , Alfonzo ? ' 
` And did not her dark eyes flash with anger , Alfonzo . ' 
Were it not for you -- for my love for you -- ' ` Well , Alfonzo , why do you place your face between your hands and heave a sigh so sad ? ' 
` Fear to trust me , Alfonzo ? ' 
` Alfonzo , I will neither laugh nor be angry . 
` This is heavy conversation for us , Alfonzo . 
` Then thy guest is a Prince , Alfonzo . ' 
` I will not , Alfonzo . ' 
` Sooner , Alfonzo , wilt thou find Genilla false to thee . ' 
Wert thou only a Moslem , Alfonzo , ' she said , reproachfully , ` this secresy need not be . 
Alfonzo drew back half a dozen steps so that the acacia , aided by a projection in the rock , effectually concealed his per son to the eye of a casval observer . 
he repeated a second time on beholding his foster daughter approaching him from the fountain behind which Alfonzo had concealed himself . 
She saw her father go round the cottage to enter it , and then picking up her bracelet she approached Alfonzo , who came forth from his hiding place , and clasped her hand . 
` Now you must go without delay , Alfonzo ! ' 
` I would rather you would not go to Cordova , dearest Genilla , ' said Alfonzo , with a tone of regret at her intention . 
` Jealous already , dear Alfonzo , ' said the Moorish beauty , bearing upon him her splendid eyes , while her delicate fingers tapped playfully his cheek . 
The lovers now parted , and Genilla entered the cottage , casting many a lingering look behind , while Alfonzo , with a thoughtful brow , walked slowly down the tower hill and descended into the forest path , in the gloom of which he was soon threading his way back to the hamlet . 
We have alluded to a service done by Alfonzo to the Moorish maiden , and which was the foundation of their first acquaintance and of their love . 
Alfonzo had been brought up in the obscure hamlet of the mountain gorge as a keeper of goats and gazelles ; such being the occupation of Gaspar , who having fled to the Sierras from the sword of the Moors , turned himself to this as a means of subsistence . 
Trained in such a school , Alfonzo grew up fearless and skilful , and became a conqueror in many a fierce contest upon the monntains with the beasts and robbers that infested it . 
Side by side with his father , and aided only by a huge wolfdog , he had put to flight and defeated a band of twelve famished robbers who had pounced upon his flock ; till at length his herds roamed and browsed with safety upon the loneliest places of the hills , while the flocks of others were daily diminished . 
They assembled to the number of four score , each attended by his fierce wolf-dog , a formidable opponent to an armed man . 
Over this small but resolute force they appointed Gaspar as captain , and Alfonzo as second in command . 
Alfonzo covered himself with glory by his bravery as well as distinguished himself by his judgment and military skill . 
Gaspar openly confessed that the whole success of the expedition was owing to the resolution and courage of Alfonzo , an assertion to which all the mountaineers gave their loudest testimony . 
The young gazelle-keeper received their praises with that modesty which always accompanies true bravery , and from that hour he was the hero of the Sierras ; and the fame of Alfonzo the Destroyer , as his enemies , the dispersed bandits , universally denominated him , penetrated the palaces of the Emirs , and his deeds found commendation from the lips of the youthful Moorish cavaliers that hung about the court . 
Up to this hour Alfonzo had not seen the fair Moorish maiden who dwelt at the white kasahbeneath the tower of the rock . 
Alfonzo felt , therefore , that in suffering his senses to be beguiled for a moment by the syren song of an Infidel maid he had grievously sinned ; for he had lively religious scruples , and as become the fashion of the time , so far as belief in the Romish miracles was concerned , was a faithful son of the Church . 
But Alfonzo was taught by the hermit to understand better the great principles of the Christian faith , and to see clearly that Mahomet was a false teacher , and his followers deluded . 
Not a kid was killed at tfle hamlet that Alfonzo did not bear a portion of it to the cell of the hermit , and he never let escape an opportunity of returning , by attention to his few wants , his sense of the value of his instructions . 
Alfonzo pitying its sufferings would have killed it ; but Xariffa , more merciful still , pleaded for its young life , for it was a very beautiful soft-eyed kind , and seemed to cast its gentle looks up to her as if seeking her protection , and he gave it into her hands . 
Sacredly had Alfonzo fulfilled the trust until this day . 
But in the hour he gave himself up to the song of the Moorish maiden , and in watching for her re-appearance , his precious charge strayed with the rest ; and when after three hours toilsome exertion and much anxiety he at length got them once more together , lo , the kid , which for his beloved sister 's sake , was of more value than all , was missing still ! 
asked Alfonzo , as he received the beautiful animal from the arms of the hermit , and pressed it to his own bosom with grateful joy . 
For several days afterwards Alfonzo studuously and religiously avoided the cliff on which he had listened to the syren song of the Moorish maiden ; and once when a straying gazelle compelled him to go upon the cliff for it , he carefully abstained from looking down at the cottage or tower . 
He seemed to feel that his eyes might jeopardise his soul ; yet we can not deny that he caught himself listening unconsciously , as if he expected the sweet sounds would be repeated ; and as he left the rock without hearing them , it must not be concealed that a feeling of disappointment , or an emotion very like it , passed through his bosom . 
Yet when he had fairly left the rock behind , he felt relieved , and experienced a sensation of escape . 
Alfonzo bounded forward and soon came up with the combatants whom he found in the glen closely engaged in terrific contest . 
The pass was very narrow , and the dog , it seemed had been lying in it , so that when the wolves would have passed through on their prowling expedition to reach the gazelles , he had been aronsed and attacked them at the same time giving the alarm . 
The dog and wolf fell bound together by the spear , and Alfonzo leaped knife in hand upon the remaining brute ; but showing his teeth with a ferocious snarl of his turned back lips he fled . 
It was the work of an instant only for Alfonzo to draw the spear from the neck of the dog and the heart of the dead wolf , and thus armed to pursue the fugitive . 
The latter , Alfonzo well knew made frequent use of it ; and one of the strongest positions which he had been the means of destroying had commanded a portion of this defile . 
The animal led Alfonzo along tle gorge for about a mile at an unflinching pace , occasionally snarling at his pursuer over his back , but not slacking his rapid gallop . 
Though fleet of foot , Alfonzo found he could not overtake him , and he launched his spear after him , resolved to give up the chase and return to his flock , and also to look after the wound in his dog 's neck . 
Thewolf thus slain by Alfonzo was one of the largest of his species and bore upon his wiry hide many a scar , inflicted by baffled hunters . 
` This has been the work of not less than a score of men , ' said Alfonzo , as he looked about upon the restored ruin ; ` but where are the workmen ? 
The Moor was still motionless , and Alfonzo possessing himself of his scymetar cried aloud -- ` Up , Infidel ! 
` Infidel dog , to dare to pronounce that name on your polluted lips , ' cried Alfonzo , striking him on the mouth with the palm of his hand . 
asked Alfonzo , impatiently . 
-- Instead of flying to the Pyrenees when Alfonzo , the Destroyer , defeated him , he fled for refuge to Cordova . 
There he became a good Moslem ; took service with the Emir , Abdel Alba , and became his friend . 
said Alfonzo , looking upon the trembling Moor , whose beard and moustache , with his warlike gear , gave him a ferocious look that greatly belied his real character . 
` Abut sunrise , Effendi , ' answered the slave with a profound salaam at every word ; cowardice making the craven rogue most courteous to Alfonzo , whom , under opposite circumstances , he would not hesitated to have branded as a ` Christian dog ! ' 
` When does he return ? ' 
` He bade me have the noon-meal ready for him , as he should be back by the time the sun was overhead . ' 
Alfonzo glanced upward , and saw that the sun was then approaching the zenith . 
He was brave , but not a bravo . 
His courage was tempered with prudence . 
He knew that it would be instant death to be caught by El Zegris and his score of followers in his stronghold . 
The slave , with the subtle quickness of the Moor , was making for the door to escape to his captain , when Alfonzo laid his grasp upon him and held him firmly . 
he cried , as he pressed the scymetar against his breast . 
He dragged the Moor hastily along by the collar of his kaftan , and succeeded in gaining one of the vacant rooms which he had before noticed had a large ruinous loop-hole on the forest side . 
Into this place he thrust the Moor headlong , and springing in after him he closed the door and placed against it a heavy stone which had fallen from the wall above the loop-hole . 
said Alfonzo ; ` a brave man can die but once . 
As he spoke he galloped rapidly round the court , looking in at the open doors of the apartments ; and as he passed by the door at which Alfonzo was posted , the corner of his vernish , or Moorish cloak , nearly flapped into his face by the wind of his motion . 
He was splendidly mounted upon a dun-colored Arabian mare , which had an eye almost as beautiful and intelligent as a woman 's , a glossy hide like silk velvet , and nostrils so transparent that the pink light shone through them . 
The jet-black beard , flowing to his breast , his raven locks sweeping the wind , his flashing glance and martial bearing , his inimitable horsemanship as he sat in his Barbaric saddle , like a part of the beautiful animal he rode , gave him altogether an imposing appearance , and rivetted the admiration of the youthful gazelle-keeper ; albeit Alfonzo had before this crossed blades with him in battle , and well nigh had taken him prisoner . 
El Zegris lingered an instant at the door of the room in which the Moorish slave had been found by Alfonzo , bending forward from his saddle to peer in . 
They were all Moors , save one or two renegade Spanish bandits , whom Alfonzo recognised even under the turban and kaftan . 
He was mounted upon a bay horse as gigantic as himself , and , what fixed Alfonzo 's eyes with surprise and curiosity , he carried in his arms a female figure , her face exposed , and reclining upon his grisly bearded breast . 
A second glance told Alfonzo that the maiden was insensible , and the torn veil and disarranged vesture , shewed him that she had been lawlessly torn away from her home , and was a prize to El Zegris . 
From the moment Alfonzo discovered her , he had no eye for the movements of the rest . 
The Ethiopian stopped his horse in such a position , that he could see her pale features distinctly , as she lay unconsciously upon the hideous breast of the Ethiop . 
He had never before beheld feminine beauty so perfect . 
If she were so lovely with her color gone , and her eyes closed , and that expression of sorrow upon her brow , thought Alfonzo , how beautiful must she appear when her face is lighted up by the dazzling splendor of her eyes , and the tint of the rose leaf plays with the smile of beauty upon her cheek and lip ! 
Of these particulars , Alfonzo was enabled to obtain a glimpse , from the position in which he was placed . 
The Ethiop laid his light burden upon one of the Divan 's while the eye of his chief followed him , and then came out and turned the key . 
Alfonzo knew the bandit well , he having been once a mountaineer , and for a murder he had done , fled to the haunts of robbers for protection . 
Alfonzo , whose look out was not more than twelve feet from the apartment where she was , saw him place his hand upon her pulse , and shake his head . 
he cried , and taking a lancet from his sash , which was contained in a morocco case that held a few other small surgical instruments and mendicaments , such as men accustomed to war always carried about with them in those days , he bared her moulded arm , and bandaging it with her torn veil , pierced the full vein . 
In a few moments , as the blood flowed into a silver basin , held by the huge Ethiopian on one knee at his feet , she opened her eyes , and a shudder passed over her frame , while a faint flush colored her cheek , and deepened the red upon her lips . 
His voice , and the sight of him bending over her , drew from her a cry of terror . 
Itwas with the most intense interest , and the deepest sympathy in the fate of the hapless maiden , Moorish though she were , that Alfonzo witnessed what we have related in the foregoing chapter . 
His heart swelled with indignant emotion , and his cheek burned at the contemplation of her unprotected state . 
His reverence and love for his sister had made all other maidens sacred in his sight . 
He watched the robber chief as he left the apartment , locking behind him the door , and placing the key in his girdle . 
He resolved then that he would endeavor , in securing his own escape , to effect hers also , if it were possible . 
The beauty and hapless condition of the beautiful Moorish girl , had made their own impression upon his heart ; but certain tones of her voice , as she plead eloquently for liberty at the feet of El Zegris , made him believe that he saw captive before his eyes the maiden who had so captivated his senses with her song . 
The very idea should have made the youth tremble when he recollected the consequences which had followed his listening to her melody . 
But this was not the effect this assurance produced in his bosom ; but it rather increased and gave rest to his awakened interest in her . 
Like the moth , he would hover around the flame which had singed him . 
There was an infatuation in the feeling that possessed him . 
As a mere Moorish maiden taken captive it is a question whether Alfonzo , chivalrous as he was by nature , would have gone so far as he did towards effecting her release ; but when that maiden was the sweet songstress the echo of whose voice still float ed about his heart , he was inspired by a romantic enthusiasm in her behalf the secret of which lay in a sentiment deep in his bosom which he had never yet analysed , but to which he yielded obedience . 
He shall lose his bride and he shall know that Alfonzo the Destroyer has stolen her from his hand . ' 
El Zegris and his lieutenant Diego ate apart on a broad seat placed just within the door of the room which contained the arms of the party , the apartment which Alfonzo had first entered on coming into the fortress . 
All their proceedings were plainly visible to Alfonzo . 
He noted everything with the closest attention . 
Alfonzo reflected a moment . 
He was convinced that he could safely trust him , as he saw that he was fully convinced his safety depended on being undiscovered . 
With these words Alfonzo unbound the turban from his mouth and returned it to him to fold again about his shining bald pate . 
Ben Habib was full of gratitude and kissing the hem of Alfonzo 's robe , said he would be his slave and serve him faithfully if he would deliver him out of the hands of the fierce El Zegris . 
The Moor seemed to think that the young mountaineer , alone and surrounded by foes as he was , would yet escape his enemies in safety ; and Alfonzo too possessed this very kind of confidence in himself . 
At the noise , Alfonzo called to know what he was doing . 
Let this be the last way of escape when all others fail , ' said Alfonzo . 
cried Alfonzo sternly . 
He then directed his scrutiny into the court with the closest attention . 
Alfonzo 's heart throbbed violently , and his grasp was firmer upon the hilt of Ben Habib 's scymetar , which he held in his hand . 
The Ethiopian came near him , and held up before his eyes the bloody wolf-spear which Alfonzo had dropped as he hurried from the guard-room with his hold upon the Moor 's collar . 
The Ethiopian had just found it in the corner whither it had rolled aside , unheeded by its owner , who did not miss it with the scymetar in his grasp . 
He now saw it again with surprise , aud closely observed the result of the discovery . 
But Alfonzo was not one who could at any time think only of self-preservation , and more particularly now , when he was to leave behind , in the power of El Zegris , a lovely girl , who had not been out of his thoughts for a day in the past three weeks , and whose voice floated like strains of music from the walls of Paradise , through his dreams night after night . 
` I will not seek my own safety and leave the maiden in the power of El Zegris , ' he said firmly , as Ben Habib once more ventured to propose to him to escape by the window . 
` Be patient , and I will devise a way of escape for us both and the lady also , ' answered Alfonzo . 
Alfonzo having seen the chief and his single follower ride forth , and the gate closed , but not fastened , and having seen the Ethiopian seat himself by the door , as a guardian Cerebus of the impassioned maiden , began to conceive in his mind some way in which he could avail himself of the present condition of things , to effect not only his own escape , but the liberation of the maiden . 
The whole interior of the court-yard , with its numerous little rooms , or cells in the wall opening into it , with its groups of Moors reposing in different parts of it , under the shadows of the western side , with the embers of the late fire in the centre , was open to his gaze . 
Alfonzo watched his motions until , at length , he had the satisfaction of seeing him droop his huge head upon his shoulder , and remain motionless in the profoundest repose . 
Alfonzo now saw that the time had come for him to effect his escape , if he ever intended to leave the den of robbers alive . 
He was impatient to go , for he thought of his poor , watchful dog , his defenceless flock , his anxious sister and father . 
Every moment was precious to him . 
Alfonzo now cast one more observing glance over the sleeping court-yard , and then rolled the stone back from the door , and slowly opened it . 
He stepped forth , his scymetar in his hand , and habited from head to foot like a Moor . 
Alfonzo , after finding himself fairly in the open court-yard , proceeded towards the stalls . 
He found , to his great joy , two horses saddled , the same which had been found there by him , when he entered the fort . 
All he had to do , was to tighten their girths , and bit them . 
He threw a saddle upon a third horse , and then leading the three out , he beckoned to Ben Habib . 
But Alfonzo saw that the risk would be too great for him to try to pass into the armoury , by the sleeping lieutenant . 
` Now lead these horses , and hold them before you door for me , ' said Alfonzo , as he left him and walked round in the shadows of the court , towards the guarded door of the apartment which contained the beautiful Moor . 
The Moorish sentinel at the gate raised his eyes as Alfonzo approached the Ethiopian , but merely towards him : he closed them again . 
Alfonzo saw in this act proof of the perfection of his disguise ; for the sentry had evidently taken him for one of the Moors walking about in preference to sleeping . 
Taking a firmer grasp upon the hilt of the scymetar , Alfonzo now strode rapidly forward , and , passing by the Ethiopian , came suddenly upon the sentinel , whom he caught by the beard and , at a single blow with his scymetar , sent the Moor to his Propnet . 
Alfonzo with a strong arm then swung back the heavy gates , and leaving them wide open , he bounded lightly towards the Ethiopian , and leaping upon the giant buried his steel deep into his breast . 
The African rose convulsively to his full height , tossed his arms wildly in the air above his head , and then pitched headlong forward , at the foot of one of the circular , serpent-entwined barbaric altars in the fortress , and struck upon the ground with a sound that made the court-yard ring again , and to vibrate with the shock , while Alfonzo springing upon him once more struck him to ensure his death . 
cried Alfonzo . 
he called to the maiden . 
With this he took the massive scymetar of the Ethiopian , and wielding the ponderous weapon as he would have done a battle-axe , he broke the door down and sprung across it into the apartment . 
Alfonzo was met by three of them in his passage to the gate ; but with the heavy scymetar of the Ethiopian he cut two of them down and rode over the third . 
He turned his head for a second and shouted back , ` Tell the Zegris that Alfonzo the Destroyer has taken his bride away . ' 
The next moment he was threading across the bridge , leaving confusion , alarm and amazement behind him in the fortress . 
The Moors were now all awake , and seizing their arms before he got across the moat , ran to the walls , and a score of spears and lances were sent after him , but fell harmlessly about his path , as he flew like the wind -- but still outstripped by Ben Habib , who went down the rocky pass as if he had neither neck or head to break . 
The third horse still galloped by the side of Alfonzo , held fast by the rein , and when he got to the foot of the defile , he transferred the maiden to the saddle upon it , and thus side by side they flew down the mountain . 
` Yet it was not Alfonzo the Destroyer who had the maiden . 
He , whoever he was , was a Moor . 
` Then who in the name of St. Peter of Rome was the turbaned fellow who rode so gallantly , and shouted back the name of Alfonzo ? ' 
` This Alfonzo has met Ben Huzzar , who you know we found not when we returned , he has met him outside and , changing garbs with him , has , by his means , through his treachery or his fears , got entrance into the fort while we slept , slew the sentinel and the Ethiopian , and so carried off the maiden bodily . 
This is all the explanation I can give for it , especially as , El Melec here says that he heard El Zegris when he went out order the sentinel to leave the gate ajar for his return . 
But more than this , Alfonzo would never have ventured inside a fortress in broad day . 
Alfonzo , whom my men call the Destroyer . 
This spear is his . 
The wolf 's hide is his ; and would to Allah he would come and take it while El Zegris has his foot upon it . ' 
Alfonzo resolved to bear his fair charge to the hamlet , and thence conduct her under a strong escort , if necessary , to her home . 
But the Moor Ben Habib was ignorant of this determination , and upon coming to the opening at the angle which led eastward down the mountains , he took it without hesitation , and as Alfonzo passed it he could just see the top of his bald head disappearing in the depths of the gorge . 
He could not but smile , serious as his present situation was , at the headlong equestrianism of the terrified Moor , thus riding for his head . 
Alfonzo did not reply ; he had turned the angle and his eye fell upon the figure of El Zegris coming up the gorge at full speed . 
Alfonzo had loooked for a meeting with the chief somewhere in the gorge on his return to his tower . 
He now recognised him , and at the same moment the chief saw and recognised the maiden whom he had destined for his bride . 
He reined up and took a second glance at the turbaned horseman by her side , but was amazed instead of seeing the features of his lieutenant Diego to behold those of the youthful mountaineer-chief his direct foe . 
Even the turban could not disguise or hide his well-remembered face from El Zegris , who never forget the features of a foeman , especially of one by whom he had been humbled . 
But Alfonzo 's headlong charge upon him gave no time for reflection . 
He spurred aside as he came upon him and endeavoured to parry the thrust which was made at his side . 
But his scymetar shivered like glass at the touch of Alfonzo 's weapon , and the guard of the hilt striking him in the breast hurled him from his saddle to the earth . 
Alfonzo reined up and dismounted and pressing his foot upon his chest said , ` I do not wish to kill thee . 
Thegorge along which they were rapidly pressing their way , narrowed every moment , until they could only go on one before the other , Alfonzo being last . 
Here , by his directions , she alighted , and also dismounting , joined her . 
` We will here leave our horses to be taken by their owners , lady , ' said Alfonzo , ` and go the rest of the distance on foot . 
I am willing they should say ` Alfonzo flies the Moors ! ' 
She pressed his hand in silence , but her eyes beaming with gratitude to her unknown deliverer were more eloquent than words . 
He aided her to climb the steep path , and in a few minutes they had left the gorge far below them and were crossing the open mountain-top in the vicinity of the cell of the hermit . 
In a little while , Alfonzo came in sight of his herd and his noble wolf-dog walking round and round them , guarding them . 
Upon seeing his master , the intelligent animal came bounding towards him and leaped upon his shoulder as if he would embrace him , while his eyes beamed welcome and joy at seeing him . 
Alfonzo examined the wound in his neck made by his spear when he launched it at the wolf , and was gratified to find that it was not worth noticing and would heal without attention . 
From the situation , in which he found his flock all collected in a close crowd together , he knew that his trusty dog had compelled them to remain so , not permitting them either to feed or move from the spot till his master should return . 
-- The poor gazelles seemed startled at the sight of the Moorish costume through which Ban had instantly recognised his master , and looked startled when he approached them . 
Here the heautiful girl lifted suddenly her almond-shaped lids , fringed with midnight rays , and darted upon him a glance that would have made captive the heart even of the holy father Godfrey , had he been exposed as was Alfonzo his protege , to their influence . 
` Alfonzo . ' 
` Yet from this time I will look upon thee , Alfonzo , and think of thee , noble Alfonzo , only as the friend of the Moor ! 
Alfonzo slowly shook his head , made no reply , and calling to his dog to guide the gazelles down the mountain , led the way with the maiden . 
Wehave now brought our story up to the time when Alfonzo had his first interview with the beautiful Genilla . 
We have seen how rapidly love intoxicated his heart as he discoursed with the beautiful Genilla . 
We have seen how rapidly love intoxicated his heart as he discoursed with her upon the moss-seat beneath the wild olive tree on the mountain . 
We shall now briefly allude to the events that followed , and then proceed with the regular narrative which we broke off after the parting of the lovers at the tower and as Alfonzo was returning to his home where he had left his father watching over the wounded young Emir . 
Alfonzo , then , having conducted the Moorish maiden to his homble abode , where he quickly exchanged his Moorish dress for one more suited to his faith and race , presented the lovely Moor to his sister , relating her history . 
The fair Xariffa , who had less strong prejudice than her brother , received the rescued maiden with sisterly affection ; and when , after an hour 's rest with her , she left under Alfonzo 's charge to return to her father 's house , she presented her with a little silver cross , and sweetly told her that when she was in sorrow or trouble if she would pray to him who died upon a cross , she would find protection and peace . 
Alfonzo then took her once more under his charge and safely conducted her to the tower , where she found that Ben Osmin had just returned from Cordova , whither he had been to get troops to pursue the robbers , who had carried off his daughter ; but could obtain none , each of the ruling Emirs fearing to let any of his own followers go , as a revolution was daily , if not hourly , expected to break out . 
Alfonzo had not delayed a moment after leaving her , as he was anxious to return and head an expedition against the tower , and besides he did not wish to hear the Moor 's thanks for the service done his daughter . 
Alfonzo bowed in quiet submission to the will of the Moor . 
` Alfonzo , we can not part thus ! ' 
` It need not be , Alfonzo ! ' 
` We will not darken this hour of parting by more words like these , Alfonzo . 
Oh , what a severe faith is thine , Alfonzo ! ' 
I have not come to meet thee , Alfonzo , to make thee a Mussleman , but to tell thee that I and my father are of two minds . 
He would have thee stay away , I would have thee come ! 
Yet Alfonzo loved with a heavy conscience . 
He kept the secret of his love from the hermit , and this made him unhappy ; for to an ingenuous mind concealment is hateful . 
He felt he was doing wrong in loving the Moorish maiden ; but he hoped to convert her to Christianity , and with this weak defence of his conduct he let the current of his peep passions drive him onward . 
On her part she felf none of those compunctious visitings of conscience for loving Alfonzo . 
He had won her heart by the service he had done her . 
It rendered Genilla dearer to Alfonzo in that her sweet society was not to be purchased without danger . 
The horsemen by this time had passed some distance the spot where Alfonzo stood unseen . 
Their conversation at once brought to his recollection his wounded guest , whom he had left two hours before under the uncertain protection of his father , Gaspar , the Wolf-slayer ; and whom he had forgotten in his thoughts about Genilla . 
He now knew that his guest was the leader of the party which had passed , and that , having given up the search , they had been collected together by their lieutenant , and were returning to Cordova full of sorrow at their loss . 
The Moor , as soon as he could recover from his surprise , galloped forward , and Alfonzo could hear him shouting , ` Yallah , yal-il-lah ! ' 
to the troop before him ; ` Yallah , the glorious Emir is found ! ' 
Alfonzo heard the commotion that followed this loud out-cry of the slave , and the trampling of the horses as their riders turned back to question the slave , reached his ears . 
At length , Alfonzo could hear their chief wind a recall upon his bugle ; and , a little while afterwards , as he ascended the first steps of the mountain side towards the hamlet , could see a mile distant , in an opening of the forest , the steel arms of the party once more in column , galloping over the plain towards the city . 
` They will now wait patiently for their chief , ' said Alfonzo , as he climbed the path by the side of the cataract ; ` and by the end of the three days , I trust he will be well , as father Godfrey has said . 
As Alfonzo gazed upon him , he saw his nether lip move and twitch uneasily , and at times nervously curve itself into an expression of exceeding pride and ferocity . 
He recollected seeing the same expression upon his countenance when he first beheld him advancing towards him in the mountain path and haughtily commanding him and the hermit to stand aside for him . 
` The soul may be brave and the spirit gentle ; but that look , which sleep has betrayed , shows that his heart is bad . 
-- Noble and beautiful as he is , from this hour , I could rather fear than trust him . 
The sooner he recovers his strength , and is on his way to Cordova , the better I shall feel . ' 
This voice came from Gaspar , whom Alfonzo saw lying at full length upon a wolf 's hide , at the head of the couch . 
-- He had fallen asleep with his forehead upon his boar-spear , and the voice of the young man raised him to a sense of his duty . 
Has he waked yet ? ' 
He 's safe , though ! ' 
-- ` We shall yet have our bout together for his jewels and gold -- the Holy Virgin permitting it ! ' 
he added , crossing his bearded chest with the point of his spear . 
asked Alfonzo , looking round the large , gloomy apartment of the cabin . 
` No , not since he left here at the first o ' the evening . 
He is no doubt by this hour at his midnight vigils . 
What do you want with him , boy ? ' 
With these words , old Gaspar cast himself again upon the rude pallet from which Alfonzo 's entrance had aroused him , and in two minutes he was breathing heavily in deep sleep . 
Alfonzo gazed instantly from one to the other , and could not but remark the contrast between the physicel strength of muscle and sinew of one , and the graceful eloquence of form of the other . 
There hung also above the mantle-piece the gigantic scymetar which Alfonzo had taken from the Ethiopian he had slain ; and dangling from a knob by it was suspended the hilt of the shivered yataghan which he had taken from the severed hand of El Zegris . 
Alfonzo gazed a few moments upon the face of the young Moorish prince , and then slowly walked away , and opening the door that led to the inner room , he passed through a little entry and then came to a second door . 
Here he tapped lightly with the tips of his fingers ; -- he had to repeat the call , when a hand was heard moving the button within , and a voice , soft and womanly , said -- ` Is it you , brother ? ' 
She was seated at her window recalling and dwelling upon his features , when the tap announcing Alfonzo recalled her to herself . 
said Alfonzo . 
Alfonzo said no more . 
He knew that he , a Christian , madly loved a Moorish maiden and he found that even Xariffa might love a handsome Moorish youth ! 
Alfonzo went out to see if all were quiet in the fold . 
He passed first along a narrow walk by the side of the cabin , and came to a gate-way in a high picketed enclosure , over which a brow of the mountain hung like a roof . 
But it was a leap to certain death , for escape being denied them , tbey always were slain after fiercely combatting with Gaspar or Alfonzo . 
Ban the dog came near , and rubbed his head against his side , and seemed unusually alert ; but there were no signs of an enemy . 
He then left the spot , pausing an instant to gaze upon the dark mountains around him , and casting a glance at the skies in which the moon walked in her brightness , attended by the brightest stars of the night 's train . 
He now re-entered the cabin and approached the couch . 
Alfonzo went near him , when he again raised his eye-lids , and gazed upon him . 
Sleep and get strength , for thou hast need of it , ' said Alfonzo , who saw that he was yet but partially restored to consciousness . 
` Moor , ' -- began Alfonzo ; but checked the indignant words that leaped to his lips . 
` Thou dost not ask the same , my son , ' said the hermit , fixing his eyes on Alfonzo , who stood aloof . 
Alfonzo obeyed , but with evident reluctance , conscious of his guilty secret . 
He received the blessing in silence , and with shame at heart . 
He rose suddenly , as if his generous soul disdained the hypocrisy of the knee to which he had yielded , when he had felt , that if father Godfrey knew all , he would pronounce a curse instead of a blessing , upon his head . 
Has he drank the potion , Alfonzo ? ' 
` I gave it to him about two hours after after midnight , father . ' 
` I met last night , Moor , ' answered Alfonzo , ` a party of Moorish horse , evidently a hunting party . 
` Gaspar , go forth to thy day 's duties ; and , Alfonzo , remain thou here , ' said the monk . 
Father Godfrey examined and dressed his wound , and gave him a drink of some healing mixture ; and , darkening the room , went forth with Alfonzo , leaving him to sleep . 
` Father , ' said Alfonzo , as they stood without , ` I like not the longer presence of this wolf in my fold ! ' 
I and four men will make him a litter and bear him away , and leave him at the first Moor 's dwelling on the plain . ' 
` The maiden would not look upon a Moor with favor , Alfonzo . ' 
This woman had been commanded by Alfonzo to watch his guest , and also to keep silence , should he wake , touching the presence in the house of the fair Xariffa . 
I would give much to see this Alfonzo ; -- where is he now ? ' 
` Doubtless with his herd upon the hills . ' 
` Is he still a herdsman ? 
a warrior like he ? ' 
The Saracen stepped back and prepared to defend with the scymetar his possession of it , and in another instant their swords would have been clashing in mortal combat , when Alfonzo suddenly stood between them and interposed his person to their hostile swords . 
demanded Alfonzo with difficulty keeping back the fierce wolf-slayer . 
` Dost thou see that he has the scymetar of Taric in his grasp ? ' 
` The holy father 's potion hath given him health , and , by the mass ! 
he gets out of his couch to rob me of my trophy . 
Stand back , Alfonzo ! 
I am to do battle with him for both Taric 's sword and his jewels ! ' 
answered Alfonzo . 
The Moor , with a dark frown , slowly hung it upon the stag 's horn from which he had taken it , and then stood proudly gazing upon Alfonzo and the monk . 
` He is too overbearing for me to like him well enough to be his companion , ' answered Alfonzo , ` But I heed him not . 
I will go with him . ' 
If I went with him , it would be to lighten him of his jewels , ' said Gaspar in an under tone , ` and perhaps he will find a guide far more of the way than he bargains for . 
I will follow on at a distance ; and when Alfonzo leaves him , I will join him again , and we will then finish our little affair just now interrupted ! ' 
The Moor , preceded by Alfonzo , armed with his wolf-spear , which he never went without , left the cabin and took his way down the cliff-side towards the valley . 
` Thou art not Caliph , and so we are free , proud Moor , ' answered Alfonzo , with a scornful curl of his lip . 
` I fear not to speak it , though thou fearest to give thine own -- I am Alfonzo , the goat-herd . ' 
cried the Saracen , who now recalled to mind the Ethiop 's scymetar , which he had found in the hut . 
` Art thou the Alfonzo who cut off the hand of the Zegris ? ' 
he added , stopping full in the path , and fixing his gaze upon him , as he waited his reply . 
` Would there were more of them , Saracen , ' answered Alfonzo . 
Alfonzo the Destroyer was too formidable an opponent for one or two or many Moors to overcome , if aware of treachery . 
He therefore wished to beguile him onward to the house of Ali Hamet . 
He therefore said , ` I am not a coward , brave Alfonzo , in my own city ; but , by the hand of the Prophet ! 
` I congratulate you , Moor , ' said Alfonzo . 
` I will now return , and hereafter when thou findest a sick or wounded Christian in need of hospitality , remember the kind treatment thou hast had at the hands of Alfonzo , the herdsman 's son . ' 
With this parting salutation , Alfonzo turned to hasten into the narrow footpath to avoid the cavalcade , which consisted of at least eighteen horsemen , glittering in gold and silks and precious stones , and formidable with steel . 
Alfonzo knew that it was dangerous for a Christian to trust a Moor ; yet he believed that his guest would prove faithful to his word . 
Scarcely had he spoken when Alfonzo , amazed , sprung backward , and presented his spear to defend himself ; Osmen , the lieutenant of the Moors , leaped towards him , and Alfonzo struck his scymetar to the ground with a single blow , and still retreated ; the rest pressed upon him fiercely . 
` Let him not escape for your lives ! 
He is Alfonzo the Destroyer ! ' 
In the mean while , Alfonzo steadily retreated towards the forest , facing his foes . 
Seeing this , the treacherous Abdelasis leaped into one of the saddles , and seizing a scymetar galloped towards him . 
Alfonzo received the horse upon the point of his spear , the weapon entering deep into his chest ; the animal reared and fell dead , and Abdelasis rolled over upon the ground . 
He was saved from instant death from his own scymetar , which Alfonzo had grasped , by the interposition of his followers ; who , seeing heir chief down , rode on with fierce cries to attack the formidable mountaineer . 
Alfonzo would have been surrounded and cut down , valiantly as he fought in defence of his life and liberty , when a loud cry from the forest close at hand startled the Moors . 
Alfonzo , to his great surprise , recognised the stern voice of Gaspar . 
The Moors , believing they were about to be assailed by a superior force , gave back , those on foot regaining their saddles in great haste ; and Alfonzo stood alone , as it were , in the midst of his enemies . 
-- When he saw Gaspar approach , he rejoiced to have such good aid , but was surprised to see him coming towards him alone ; for he thought , as the Saracens had done , that he had men with him . 
Gaspar , upon coming up , ranged himself by the side of Alfonzo , and said , ` Now , let us walk backward slowly , and face them , my boy . 
The two brave mountaineers were forced back to the edge of the wood , Alfonzo keeping his assailants at bay with his spear , while Gaspar , wielding the heavy staff of his pike , like a club , swung it in a circle around him , keeping a clear space between him and the horses . 
The Emir Abdelasis followed them on foot a short distance , when Alfonzo , seeing it , turned back , at which he retreated , though not without cursing him , at the same time loudly giving his people orders to surround the covert and endeavor to cut off their retreat to the mountain . 
` Heaven has saved me from thy treachery , false Moor , ' cried Alfonzo . 
From this hour look upon Alfonzo the Destroyer as thy relentless foe . ' 
I then trembled for you , Alfonzo , for I know too well how little a Moor is to be trusted . 
` I owe my life to thee , father , ' answered Alfonzo , grasping his hand and affectionately laying it against his heart . 
He deserved to be stripped and murdered -- the false Moslem hound ! 
asked Alfonzo , as he walked by his side . 
` You mean Abdelasis , who has to-day proved himself so treacherous , ' said Alfonzo . 
Thetwo speakers had now reached the front of their cabin , and Gaspar , saying that he had to look after his goats , turned to leave Alfonzo at the door . 
With these words the hermit drew up to the humble board ; and while Alfonzo , Xariffa , and old Gaspar , stood reverently around it , he asked a blessing upon the coarse fare . 
They ate with appetites and enjoyment ; and when the first edge of their fasting was taken off , Gaspar proceeded to relate , in his blunt way , the adventures of himself and Alfonzo in the forest . 
It would have been surprising , had you returned , Alfonzo , and told me you had guided the Saracen till he fell in with a party of his followers in search of him , and that he suffered you to depart in safety . ' 
Alfonzo here has , however , done most for her . 
She must thank him and not me ! ' 
` He has said none too much , daughter If thou couldst hear Alfonzo discourse of thee thou wouldst not heed thy father 's praise . ' 
cried Alfonzo , ` I will have it that I love her quite as well . 
Xariffa thanked him by a sweet look of affection , but at the same time gave him a glance so peculiar that he knew that she would have said , had she put the glance into words , ` I know I am dear to thee , brother , but still I believe that Genilla is still more dearly beloved . ' 
The humble meal at length ended , and the two herdsmen rose up , Gaspar to go after his goats , which he had left under the care of Pablo , up the cliff , and Alfonzo to return to the charge of his gazelles , which the faithful Ban had been guarding , as they fed far up the mountain . 
Alfonzo and the old man went up the mountain track , the latter refusing the aid of the young man . 
At length they gained the uplands of the Sierras , and Alfonzo found his gazelles feeding in security under the guardianship of Ban . 
asked Alfonzo , wishing very much to know , if he could draw it from him , the object of his visit to the Emir 's Tower . ' 
Alfonzo was about frankly to tell the holy father , but he feared to let him know that he himself was also at Ben Osmin 's ; therefore he said , evasively . 
` There is the Moor who lives by yonder tower , at the foot of the Sierra , ' continued Alfonzo ; ` is he a quiet person ? ' 
Thus speaking , the hermit bade him farewell , and went slowly up the remainder of the path , and was soon afterwards lost to the eye of Alfonzo . 
When Abdelasis , the false Saracen Prince , who had so basely requited the hospitality of Alfonzo by attempting to deprive him of his liberty , found that pursuit after him through the labyrinths of the forest was in vain , he recalled his troop together and proceeded to return to Cordova . 
This Alfonzo and a monk , it seems , bore me to a hut , and there dressed my wounds and gave me a sleeping draught . 
` This man was none other than Alfonzo , the herdsman ! ' 
-- ` He said to me that he had met a Moorish troop in the forest , and given precisely the information you have repeated . 
It would seem that he did not care to have you come in person to his hamlet , with so large a party of followers to carry me away . 
Thenews of the revolution in Cordova , of the overthrow of the government of the Emirs , of the death of the powerful Algezir , and of the accession of the conqueror , Abdolasis , to the Caliphate , thus consolidating the Moslem power in Spain , reached the ears of Gaspar and Alfonzo in their mountain home . 
` This is more news than I got , ' answered Alfonzo , with animated interest . 
This question Alfonzo could not answer ; yet he believed that he had gone there in order to see Ben Osmin , who had already been gone since the morning before ; and he was led to this belief from the fact that the hermit had been seen going down into the valley the evening before , but had not been known to return ; and that he had gone to Cordova was , he thought , more than likely , as he had sent Ben Osmin there before him . 
That Ben Osmin had really gone , Alfonzo ascertained that very morning , by paying a stolen visit to the Emir 's tower . 
So Alfonzo , nearly persuaded himself that his presence in Cordova was necessary for the safety of father Godfrey , although he was by no means certain that he had in reality gone there . 
asked Alfonzo , looking upon her lovely face and figure , with the admiring eyes of fraternal affection and brotherly pride . 
` Father , I see your eyes are cast-towards the table , and doubtless , you think I had better have been baking bread for thy supper and Alfonzo 's , than idling my time in such work . 
` This is a surprise , ' exclaimed Alfonzo . 
Alfonzo , that you could once more rouse the Sierras to arms , and avenge for me this wrong ! 
` I thought , ' cried Alfonzo , in tones that rung again , ` I thought that the cup of our woes and degradation was full ; but I see that there are yet outrages we can suffer ! 
` I would that I had five hundred good Christian arms with mine , ' cried Alfonzo , ` I would not bear these things -- I would lead them on to the very gates of Cordova -- I would rescue Agata for thee , Luis , or have Abdelasis 's head ! ' 
Yet I know not what hopes led me to come to thee , Alfonzo ! 
Thus speaking , Alfonzo walked slowly and sadly across the room . 
Alfonzo sprung to the window , and , by the glowing twilight , for the sun had just gone down , he beheld three men coming very fast towards the hut . 
By their garb he knew them to be mountaineers , though two of them carried scymetars and a third was mounted upon a richly caprizoned Arabian steed . 
answered Alfonzo as he threw open the door . 
` Thank the saints , thou art at home , brave Alfonzo , and thou Gaspar ; and here is Luis and his father too ! ' 
cried Alfonzo . 
asked Alfonzo . 
` Peace , father , ' said Alfonzo , with forced calmness : ` words are not for such acts as these we are listening to ! 
Here Alfonzo briefly informed Guesippo of the outrage against Luis , and the death of Simeon the miller . 
slowly and impressively repeated Alfonzo , as he walked up and down the room . 
said Alfonzo , dropping his head sadly . 
` Alfonzo , if thou wilt tell me how to use mine to purpose , ' cried Luis , ` I swear to thee it shall be drawn and made good use of ! 
` I can not tell thee , Luis , what to do -- save to bear or die , ' answered Alfonzo , in answer to his call upon him for aid . 
` We must have a leader , Alfonzo -- but it need not be a prince , ' answered Luis . 
Trust me , neighbors , that all in the mountains would sooner follow Alfonzo here than a prince whom they know not . 
We have tried thee , Alfonzo . ' 
answered Alfonzo , with a bitter smile . 
` If it were known that all men might have an opportunity of redressing their wrongs by flocking to the standard of Alfonzo , even were it no more than a wolf 's skin hung upon his spear , he would find himself at the head of an army ere thirty days . ' 
asked Alfonzo , coming forth with a stern brow , and firey air . 
` Who will bend his neck to the heel of the Moor ? 
asked Alfonzo , in the hoarse deep tones of a man who is deeply excited , but is endeavoring to repress all outward emotion . 
Earlyon the ensuing morning , ere the day fairly broke , Alfonzo opened the door of the hut and walked forth . 
He had passed a sleepless night . 
The wrongs of his country , his sympathy for Luis , the edicts of Abdelasis , all pressed upon his thoughts and kept him waking . 
The most of the night he passed in pacing his room and devising a thousand schemes of exalted patriotism ; but each of which he rejected as visionary . 
Conscious of his own weakness and that of Spain , compared with the power of Abdelasis , he he felt that all he could do was to weep and pray for his country . 
He felt -- so reasoned he -- that it was for God 's honor that the crescent should be overthrown and the cross replaced , and he trusted that God would open a way to have it done . 
At this moment entered Alfonzo , who had also turned his gazelles from the fold and sent them with Ban up the hill-side . 
The position from which Alfonzo beheld the day advancing hid from his sight the hamlet ; as he intended to go higher up the mountain still , where it would once more be in view beneath him , as well also the Emir 's tower . 
Alfonzo could also hear him shout , but could not understand what he said , for he was a third of a mile distant . 
But suspecting from his manner , and seeing him begin rapidly to descend the rocks with great leaps , that some enemy was in sight , he hastened forward to a bold promontory which commanded a full view of the hamlet and the family . 
As he ran he heard the sound of a horn blown in the direction of the gorge . 
Loud voices came to his ears from the hamlet . 
He thought he heard a female shriek . 
He bounded onward -- he flew ! 
he out-stripped the wind . 
He reached the promontory and glanced down the sleep mountain side . 
The roofs of the eight or nine cabins composing the hamlet were directly beneath his feet . 
Could his eyes be believed . 
But his ears confirmed their vision . 
A glance showed all this to the startled eyes of Alfonzo . 
He comprehended all his sister 's danger . 
It was with an effort he resisted the impulse to fling himself from the lofty height on which he stood among his enemies . 
He saw one bring his sister forth shrieking , and leap into his saddle with her in his arms . 
He staid but a second to wind a war blast upon his horn , and then , with rage and grief burning his breast , he flew to her rescue , not calculating the numbers against him . 
` Stay , Alfonzo ! 
Alfonzo could not gainsay his father 's words . 
He well knew that pursuit would be in vain . 
That to attempt , even if he came up with the party , to rescue her , would be attended with the sacrifice of his own and his father 's life without benefit to her . 
He stopped , therefore , following the waving plumes of the Zenetan horse until they were out of sight , and then striking his forehead in the anguish of his soul , he cried , as he gazed upon his prostrate father , ` You are right , we can do nothing , you and I and these three ; but the time has come when these shall become three thousand ! 
Atthese stirring words of Alfonzo , uttered as they were in the stern moment , and under the fierce influence of the bitterest grief , Gaspar raised his face from between his knees and smiled . 
He rose to his feet , and looking Alfonzo steadfastly in the eyes , he said , ` Young man , thy speech would have brought me to life , had I been dead . 
They will join us when they hear that Alfonzo would avenge his sister , for they all loved her . ' 
Go to each of them and say that Alfonzo needs them again , and that he raises his standard -- ` The wolf-skin ! ' 
Say to them that Alfonzo has raised the standard of the Holy Cross on the rock of St. Paul , and they that love Spain must hasten to it without delay , and each bring his companion with him . ' 
said Alfonzo . 
` I could go no further , neighbors , ' said Gaspar ; ` when I saw my child disappear beyond succor , I sank beneath this great tree , and should have died here , but for words that came from Alfonzo that put life into me , and , as you see , have made me strong again . ' 
Yes , Alfonzo , surprised you look : but I assure you that every patriot in the land has had his eyes on you with hopes they hardly dared breathe . ' 
The audacity of the Saracen has got to its height ; our forbearance has given him power and insolence : we are slaves because we had not courage to be freemen . 
Now , Luis , bear to each man thou meetest the word that Alfonzo has raised the standard of the cross , and calls on all Christians to rally around it . 
said Alfonzo ; ` we would rescue Xariffa , and punish her captors ! 
They had heard the sound of the war-trumpet , and hearing from the women they met in the hamlet what had occurred , they boldly pressed forward to join Gaspar and Alfonzo in pursuit . 
` We must go to work secretly at first not to alarm the Moor and awaken his vigilance , ' said Alfonzo , looking around him into the dark forest in which they were thus accidentally assembled . 
Alfonzo ran , and meeting him , embraced him with affection . 
` That party of horse , father , ' said Alfonzo , taking his hand and pressing it with deep emotion , while his brow wore a cloud of dark vengeance , ` That party bore away in its midst , my sister Xariffa , as a captive ! 
The young chief reverently kneeled before the majestic person of the hermit , who laid his hand upon his head , and raising his eyes heavenward , he said in the most solemn manner , while all uncovered their heads , Gaspar and Luis and Guiseppo kneeling a little behind Alfonzo . 
` I now consecrate and set thee apart , Alfonzo , as the redeemer of thy country ; her leader in battle ; her defender and saviour , in the name of the most Holy Trinity . 
Alfonzo , thus solemnly anointed leader of the Christians , in this incipient movement to overturn the Moorish power , rose to his feet , looking both surprised and serious . 
This he placed in the hands of Alfonzo , and said , ` Behold the symbol of salvation . 
` I will do it , if Heaven give me help , ' answered the young chief firmly , as he kissed the cross . 
I will tell every man that Alfonzo the Destroyer , the Saviour of Spain , hath sent this cross to all who love Christ Jesus , and calls upon them to come to his standard , for the freedom of Spain ! ' 
` Nay , father , I need thy council and experience , ' said Alfonzo . 
` We must see first my friends , ' said Alfonzo , as they were about separating , each on his own mission to his countrymen , ` we must first see how many men there are in Spain that wish to throw off the Moslem yoke . 
These men had all been with Alfonzo on his gallant expeditions against the banditti of the Sierras , and loved and honored him . 
They felt that he was the only man to lead them against their haughty couquerors . 
Alfonzo , Gaspar , the hermit , Guiseppo and Luis were left standing together beneath the tree , Guiseppo holding by the bridle his Arabian ; they remained silently watching the retiring figures of their friends , as they went away in various paths , till all disappeared . 
It was Alfonzo the Destroyer . 
` Noble Alfonzo , ' said Guesippo , ` thou art our chief . 
I give him to thee . ' 
` Nay , I need him not . ' 
` But thou shalt take him , boy , ' cried Gaspar . 
` Thou , holy father , ' said Alfonzo . 
Unable to resist , Alfonzo leaped into the saddle , and sat the noble charger like a prince . 
Alfonzo rode on in advance , with the hermit at his side ; leaving Gaspar to collect and drive back half a score of scattered kids which were wandering away . 
asked Alfonzo , as he rode up to them . 
` Then I will venture on my nightly mission in this disguise , ' answered Alfonzo , with that serious , sad air which had not divested his face for a moment , since the capture of Xariffa . 
` Farewell , my son , ' said the hermit , coming forth from the hut where he had been with Alfonzo while he dressed ; ` I go to carry this cross from hamlet to hamlet , and call on every Christian to flock to the standard of Liberty , for the freedom of Spain from the curse of the Crescent ! 
Alfonzo , dismounting , led his horse down the path , while father Godfrey , walking by his side , said , ` Before thou leavest me , my son , I would commend thee to one in Cordova whom thou wilt find ready to receive thee , and to give his gold and his life for Spain ! 
As the hermit spoke he placed in the hands of Alfonzo a small silver cross , on which was graven in Hebrew the word ` Jehovah . ' 
answered Alfonzo . 
Can I trust him fully with all our plans ? ' 
` Yes ; thou wilt find him wearing , as thou dost now , a Moorish dress -- for outwardly he professes to be a Moslem , but it is only a garb that he may be a spy upon his foes . 
` In three days at the farthest , father , ' answered Alfonzo ; ` I shall see who will be with us there , and then return to learn how the people of the Sierras look upon the effort about to be made to throw off the yoke of the Moor . ' 
Alfonzo looked after him for a moment with a longing farewell glance ; and then said with a kindling eye , as he pressed his horse forward , -- ` Now for Cordova , to plot its down fall ! 
Alfonzo galloped forward , for about a mile , without drawing rein . 
He was surprised to see two wood-gatherers suddenly fly from the road on seeing him ; but , when he recollected that he wore the Moorish attire , he saw the reason of their flight , and sighed at the new proof of the degradation of his countrymen . 
` It is time Spain rose and asserted her right to be a nation of freemen . 
The two men got their ass to one side of the way , and there held him , as Alfonzo rode by . 
They both made a profound salaamwith their faces to the ground as he passed . 
To be sure that they saw him well , he reined up , and asked in good Arabic , for the language of their conquerors was mostly spoken by the men of Spain , their proud conquerors disdaining to learn the tongue of the vanquished . 
Satisfied that he might now safely venture into Cordova , Alfonzo left them with the indifference of manner characteristic of the Moor , who never thanks an inferior , and galloped rapidly forward in the direction of the Emir 's tower . 
Up this path , just described , Alfonzo slowly rode , carefully watching for the appearance of any one . 
But he reached the top of the platform and came in sight of the Kasah , without seeing any one . 
Here he dismounted , and led his horse into the area of the tower , to drink at a pool which he saw there , resolving afterwards to enter the dwelling ; for he knew that there dwelt there with Ben Osmin and his daughter , an old Moorish woman as house-keeper , who was partly blind and a cripple , but nevertheless , as Ben Osmin said of her to his friends , a notable body to take care of a house , and wait on ` nilla . 
answered Alfonzo , and put ting them on he was surprised how well they fitted him , as if made for him ! ' 
` Now , holy father , ' said Alfonzo , going out to mount his horse , ` I leave with thee my gazelles , and especially this kid of Xariffa , who so plaintively misses his mistress . 
The herd-boy will look to them , but while thou art here see to him that he neglects them not ; for this is to be thy home ! ' 
The next instant he was in his saddle , and met Gaspar and his friends , as we have seen . 
Having now laid aside his warm Moorish costume in the lonely court of the tower , to resume again when he should remount his horse , he led the noble animal towards the pool to let him drink , and at the same time to cool his own brow and hands . 
He came to the pool which was at the end of a low wall that intersected the tower , and was about to let him drink , when a young man , habited in the ordinary garb of a Moorish mountaineer , with a short wolf-knife in his belt , came suddenly out from the wall and stood before him , gazing into his face with curiosity and fearless surprise . 
Alfonzo instantly recognised him and called him by his name . 
cried Alfonzo , in the same breath in which he questioned him ; and pointing to the pool , he looked steadily in his face , and asked , ` Hast thou slain any man ? 
` Thou hast done a good deed , Athir , ' said Alfonzo to the youth , who had been a page to El Zegris and whose life he had spared when he first attacked and drove the robber-chief from the mountains . 
Athir had received a wound in the conflict and would have been slain by one of Alfonzo 's band but for his interposition . 
He took him with him to the cell of father Godfrey , and when he was healed sent him home to Cordova , where Athir told him he had a mother and sister living . 
Theyoung Moor having related to Alfonzo the events as they have just been given , and received his commendation for what he had done in thus destroying a dangerous enemy of the father Godfrey , said , ` Though the pool is crimsoned with the robber 's blood , I will lead the horse where he can find water . 
Alfonzo knew well the fountain . 
It was there he had his last meeting with Genilla the evening previous to her departure for Cordova with her father , contrary to her lover 's wishes ; for Alfonzo had no wish to place her in the way of the lawless young Saracen cavaliers , and so let her see that there were good looking young men in the world besides himself . 
` You may take him there , Athir . 
asked Alfonzo , as he walked with him towards the trough , which was a hollow stone beneath the fountain . 
inquired Alfonzo , as they stopped at the fountain and let the horse drink of the refreshing water as it gushed alive from the rock . 
said Alfonzo , regarding him keenly . 
exclaimed Alfonzo , as he raised the youth from his knees , upon which he had fallen as he spoke , bowing his head upon his hand , as if grieved that his grateful affection for the preserver of his life should for a moment be questioned . 
This indeed had at last come to be Alfonzo 's opinion , the more his mind dwelt upon the subject . 
` I am going into the city in hopes to find my sister , ' added Alfonzo , who did not see fit to unfold to him all his motives in visiting Cordova . 
Thus speaking , Alfonzo led his horse , and conducted the Moorish youth back to the ruin , within which he pointed out to him , lying upon a rock , the Moslem turban and bernish which he had left there . 
Alfonzo now glanced at the sun , and seeing that it was but an hour high , he resolved to proceed without delay to Cordova , as he knew the gates would be shut at sun-down . 
Alfonzo rode at an easy pace through the wood , the youthful Moor striding at his horse 's head with an agile and easy air . 
asked Alfonzo with deep interest in his simple story . 
There were two principal roads which wound through the valley , one of which they were now on , and which led directly to Cordova , and the other intersected it from the east , and was that along which rolled the cloud of dust which had called Alfonzo 's attention . 
Thecloud of moving dust now suddenly resolved itself , as they entered the road in which Alfonzo travelled , into a brilliant corps of cavalry , crossing the valley at full speed . 
Upon entering the road they wheeled to the left and advanced at the same pace towards Cordova , as Athir thought , without seeing him or his master , as he chose to term Alfonzo . 
The three horsemen , glittering in silks and polished steel harness , with gleaming scymetars , came up like the wind , abreast ; but as they came nigh Alfonzo , seeing that he betrayed neither fear nor hostility , they reined up , and trotting gently along , met him and saluted him . 
` Allah be thy guide also , brother , ' answered Alfonzo , in spite of the appealing glance of the faithful Athir , who would have replied in his stead . 
` I thought all the true followers had submitted to Abdelasis , ' said Alfonzo . 
exclaimed Alfonzo and Athir in the same breath . 
` He was once his prisoner , ' answered Alfonzo . 
If that brave Christian , Alfonzo the mountaineer , had slain this great robber instead of only cutting off his hand , he would have done us and all Spain good service . ' 
` He spared him , because he thought it would be a greater punishment to such a man -- so men say , ' answered Alfonzo . 
It has been but little to him ; for he lashes his sword to his club-wrist as if with bonds of iron , and thus wields it with a power that no man can withstand . 
asked Alfonzo . 
` I ride slow to accommodate my slave , ' answed Anfonzo ; for while they had been conversing they had been riding along , the horseman being on Alfonzo 's right , while his two companions , who were inferior in rank , rode in the rear . 
The soldier gallopped on ahead after the body of cavalry , and soon coming up with them , took a richly caparisoned steed by the bridle , with which a Moor was leading him , and returning , met the officer and Alfonzo . 
Athir leapt lightly into the saddle , and falling back in the rear of all , as he knew it became him to do , as a ` slave , ' he saw , not without alarm , Alfonzo and the officer prepare to gallop on and overtake the troop . 
` You are very courteous , Effendi , ' answered Alfonzo . 
Ibrahim told me that he would not hesitate to make an officer of rank even of the valiant Christian Alfonzo , if he could induce him to take service with him . 
asked Alfonzo , with an effort repressing the exhibition of the emotions to which this conversation gave rise . 
He has consolidated the empire . 
He has no rivals -- no factions to contend with -- when this El Zegris is slain or taken , as he will soon be . 
` Think you Alfonzo the mountaineer will come too ? ' 
` No , he will stay away ! 
If he comes , he is not the man that I suppose him to be . 
He will no doubt fly to the fortresses of the mountains with others as bold as himself , and there defy the soldiers of the Caliph . 
I would give the richest diamond on the crescent of the Caliph , were it mine , to see this Alfonzo ! ' 
` Possibly he may come into Cordova and be registered ! ' 
` Should he do so , he will hardly leave it again . 
Abdelasis would give much to hold him in his hands . ' 
` Think you he will go so far as to slit the ears and cut off the fingers of all who , after having registered their names , shall refuse to offer sacrifice in the Mosque ? ' 
He means to make Spain a Moslem Empire . 
There shall not , he says , exist in Spain two nations , and one of these Christians . 
The Moorish cavalry to which Alfonzo had now attached himself , and very gladly too , as affording him a way of entering the city unquestioned , had now got within full view of the city , which stood in all its oriental splendor upon the banks of the Guadalquivir -- a pile of palaces , mosques , domes and crowning minarets , which reflected back with the brilliancy of needles of polished gold , the setting sun . 
Alfonzo passed in with Ali-ben-Sarac , the friendly lieutenant who rode in the rear of the troop ; and close behind him galloped Athir ; after these came the Catalan merchant , and the two Hadjii , and one or two others . 
The gates were then closed by a loud command from the captain of the guard , and Alfonzo found himself within the city of his foes , without hope of escape , save by his address , courage , and the excellency of his disguise . 
` I shall go to some caravansera , ' answered Alfonzo . 
Athir obeyed , throwing the rein to the Moor and taking Alfonzo 's horse by the bit ; for he had reined up , seeing that they had come to a cross street , down which he thought it best to turn to get rid of going to the palace with the kindly-disposed Ali Sarac . 
Alfonzo turned aside from the street of the gate into another narrower and obscure , bordered by low stone houses with here and there an arch over-topped by a palm , leading into the court-yard of some secluded mansion . 
The twilight was already deepening into night , and Alfonzo saw that it would be necessary for him to find the house of Senor Velez to whom the hermit had recommended him . 
It were safer to be unconcerned , ' answered Alfonzo . 
As he rode past the Moorish sentinel gazed at them fixedly , but remained silent and let them move on without hinderance . 
said Alfonzo , who could scarcely restrain the impulse to gallop forward and interpose to save the victim of oppression whom he heard pleading piteously in the name of the Virgin for life ! 
` Let us pass another way , my lord , ' said Athir , who found that Alfonzo would be tempted to expose himself in an effort to rescue the Christian . 
The sight made the bosom of Alfonzo burn . 
` What has he done ? ' 
` He is the slave of the man who is punishing him -- that is enough , Allah be praised , ' answered the man ; and he turned away and imitated with cruel precision another of the piercing cries which the sufferer uttered . 
It was with difficulty that Alfonzo could recollect his own danger and restrain the impulse to rush forward to savo him ; for he was touched to the heart with admiration by his noble firmness in such an hour of suffering . 
` Thou shalt see him for thyself , Athir , ' answered Alfonzo , who felt that he ought not to betray , even to Athir , that Senor Velez was only outwardly a Mussulman , being at heart a true Christian Spaniard . 
Alfonzo looked sharply for the house of the Signor Velez . 
` We are , ' answered Alfonzo , who , as well as the astonished Athir , had quickly discovered who the speaker was ; but both commanded their surprise . 
To Alfonzo the meeting was a glad one ; but Athir trembled lest he should be recognized , and reclaimed by the Moor , his late master . 
asked Alfonzo , before whose mental eyes , Genilla now appeared vividly . 
answered Alfonzo . 
` Tell him to go back , and take the first turn to the right , and the next to the left . 
Alfonzo gave this information , and received the warm thanks of Ben Osmin , who added , just as Alfonzo was trying to conceive some mode of ascertaining the safety of Genilla -- ` And I not only thank thee , but I have a fair daughter who would thank thee also , for this service , brother ; for she hath cried her eyes out by this time , lest I should have fallen into evil hands . ' 
` Then she hath escaped all the snares set for her beauty , ' said Alfonzo , not a little relieved by his last words , and in his heart blessing the faithfulness of Genilla . 
To hear from her , too , and to know that she was well and in safety , filled his bosom with joy . 
But he sighed that Xariffa was not also as safe . 
With these words , Alfonzo dismounted , while Ben Osmin hurried away in search of the dwelling of Ben Habib . 
I will speak to him , ' answered Alfonzo , approaching the gate , which was cast into deep shadow by the projecting Moorish arch over it . 
With these words , Alfonzo drew from his bosom the little silver cross which the hermit had given him , and handed it to the Senor Velez through the little opening by the post of the gate . 
He then secured the gate , and by a flight of steps led Alfonzo into a handsome room , at the extremity of which was a raised floor , carpeted and surrounded with divans , in Moorish style of furnishing houses . 
For a moment Alfonzo believed that he was in the dwelling of a Mussulman , rather than that of a native Spaniard , who still held to the faith of the cross . 
I am Alfonzo . ' 
Forgive my coldness and suspicion , noble Alfonzo . 
he cried , surveying him with emotion and admiration . 
Alfonzo was not a little gratified to meet with such a reception in the very heart of the city of his foes . 
` I wear it not to buy my life , Alfonzo , but to watch my foes , the enemies of Spain and of God . ' 
` I am glad to see thee , Alfonzo . 
exclaimed Alfonzo . 
Mark me , Alfonzo : they will hail with joy the man who lifts the Standard of the Cross again in the land , and unsheathes his sword to defend it . 
While Alfonzo was engaged in doing justice to the hospitable repast set before him after his fatigues of the day , Athir entered , and standing silently , waited to be noticed by his master , as if he were indeed Alfonso 's slave . 
` He isa Moor , Senor , ' answered Alfonzo ; ` but he can be trusted . 
He is faithful to me , and will be to thee . ' 
` I will tell thee about it , Senor , ' answered Alfonzo ; and he then proceeded to relate to him the facts touching his history , which have already been repeated to the reader . 
When he had done , the Spanish noble called to Athir , and gave him his hand . 
I will also trust thee , if Alfonzo hath done so . 
Elec , ' he added , after clapping his hands and bringing in the Nubian slave , ` see that thou givest refreshment to this youth , and that he has a mat spread down in the room of the fountain , where thou wilt also prepare a couch for his master . 
-- See , too , that his horse wants nothing . ' 
The Nubian clasped his hands above his head , and bowed to the ground in token of obedience , and departed , followed by Athir . 
` What I am , I owe to my excellent friend , ' answered Alfonzo , who had sat quietly under the high language of eulogium , that flowed from the lips of Senor Velez . 
My own heart is young again when I look upon thy noble form and think that Christian Spain , in Alfonzo the Destroyer has once more a Champion ! ' 
It may possibly be my Alfonzo , if not some other who will give the tidings of things in the Sierras ! ' 
` Not mystandard , Senor , but Christ 's , ' answered Alfonzo , with his characteristic modesty . 
` It is a larger number than I had supposed , ' answered Alfonzo . 
` I believe so , ' answered Alfonzo , with warmth . 
` It is your sacred duty , Alfonzo , to strike a blow in their behalf ! 
Alfonzo , our deliverer , will flow like honey from their lips , and they will feel their hearts once more throb with hope . 
` There may be then , full twenty five thuusand men to encounter , soldiers and citizens , ' said Alfonzo . 
` I foresee this , Alfonzo . 
asked Alfonzo , rising . 
` Call me Alfonzo , Senor . ' 
` I shall return in two hours , I trust , able to say to thee , Alfonzo , that the ball has been set in motion , which shall not cease to roll till it has thrown down Mosque and minaret . 
The rich Spanish merchant then folded his cloak about him , and departed up the street , giving Alfonzo particular directions to secure the gate and to admit no one . 
Alfonzo followed , with his eye , the dark forms , with their flickering lantern , till they disappeared up the street , and then turned to secure the gate . 
Athir was at his shoulder . 
` That , Athir , is a mission I shall give to thee , ' he said , smiling . 
I want you to go and ascertain where she is . 
I know I can hear something from her if she is at the palace . 
Alfonzo grasped him by the hand , warmly , and then set him forth . 
` Now , ' said Alfonzo as he lingered at the open gate , ` now have I done all that is in my power to do in behalf of my sister . 
Alfonzo had not been long alone after the departure of Athir when he began to experience restless desire to see Genilla , and ascertain if she were in safety . 
` Duty and religion , ' he said within himself , ` would teach me to forget her now that I have given myself to the overthrow of her people 's power and the upraising of the cross where the crescent now stands ! 
He was pacing up and down the paved court within the house of Signor Velez as he thus mused . 
There was no reply ; the lattice betrayed no presence ; and the Prince slowly moved away , stealthily followed by Alfonzo . 
Alfonzo went onward , and coming to the place , found that a gate had let them forth ; but whether into a street or another garden adjoining he could not tell , as the wall was so high . 
` This is a wilderness of gardens , ' said he , as he looked about him . 
He may well say , he who wooes may command . 
And what maiden is it who dares dispute his power and scorn his love ? 
Who can it be who has so won his heart that he dare not command , but is compelled to sue ; and even puts up with silence and indifference ? 
Whoever she is who rules the proud Prince thus by love , rules Spain ! 
I will return and watch this lattice well ; it may be that I may see her . 
Were it not that he sued so humbly for her favor , I should believe that it was Xariffa . 
The heart of Alfonzo bounded with joy . 
He lifted up his heart in gratitude to God that he had found his lost sister . 
But he did not at once show himself . 
He was apprehensive : he might have attracted attention by his singing from some other ears than hers . 
He therefore remained silent and immoveable watching her , his heart throbbing with joy . 
He could see that her face was pale and anxious . 
He knew that she was a prisoner ; but why Abdelasis should thus humbly woo amazed him . 
But he had not been cognizant of their former interview in the cabin . 
He was ignorant of the sudden passion which his guest had entertained for his sister , and how completely enthralled by her charms was his haughty spirit . 
Finding all was still in the garden , Alfonzo thought he could safely make himself known , and advancing from the shadow of the wall he suddenly appeared before her , forgetting his Moorish costume , supposing she would instantly recognise him as he had done her . 
-- But when seeing him she stepped back from the casement with a slight exclamation . 
He then removed his turban and called to her : ` Xariffa ! 
` Oh , Alfonzo , God bless you for seeking me out ! 
You are in his power . 
asked Alfonzo earnestly , coming still nearer to the window , ` did he see you at the hamlet ? ' 
he did . 
He came to my room unexpectedly . 
He talked long with me . 
He offered me his heart , but I refused to listen to him . 
He left me , but in anger . 
asked Alfonzo , struck with her last words , and beginning to suspect that her heart might be secretly interested and moved by his flattering homage and profound attentions . 
` Suppose he were a christian , sister ? ' 
` Then I could , indeed love him ! 
He is very noble and tender in his speech , and has every grace to win a maiden 's love ! 
But I do not forget that he is an unbeliever ! ' 
` And thou wilt not forget even this , long , my sister , I see , ' answered Alfonzo , bitterly , who , with grief perceived that she was inclined with all her resistance to regard the prince with favor rather than with anger and detestation . 
Instead of bringing her to his Seraglio he had ordered the captain to take her to his former palace , that in which Alfonzo now discovered her . 
Here she was delivered to the charge of female slaves , and after a bath was robed by them in magnificent apparel and conducted to the sumptuous apartments in the casement of which she was now conversing with Alfonzo . 
Alfonzo , be it remembered , was ignorant of these events , and of the bias in Xariffa 's mind towards her princely captor , or he would not have marvelled as he did to notice that absence of fear and disposition to speak favorably of Abdelasis , which she manifested ; for he saw that she did not seem to be so overwhelmed with terror as he supposed she would have been , in the power of such a man . 
` Fly , Alfonzo , ' cried Xariffa ; ` fear not for me ! 
Alfonzo had had time to see that the maiden who came to notify her of the Prince 's presence was exceedingly beautiful , slight of figure , and spoke as if she was the friend rather than the spy of his sister . 
Alfonzo , upon reaching the court of the Senor Velez , found all quiet as he had left it half an hour before . 
He , however , had discovered his sister in the power of Abdelasis , yet respected by him , and in danger of forgetting her duty as a Christian woman through the power of his love . 
But it was out of his power to save her ; and to attempt it , might result in his own captivity ; and he felt that he was not his own , but belonged to those who had chosen him to be their leader in the coming revolution . 
He approached the street-gate , and unbarring it , looked out to see if he could discover any signs of the return of the Spanish noble from his friends . 
From a distance came to his ear low sounds of music , and remotely he heard the winding of a bugle , but whether outside or within the walls , he could not tell ; the notes , however , he knew to be Moorish ; for it had been a score of years since a Spanish bugle had waked the echoes of the walls of Cordova . 
There were guards both on horse and foot in front of the palace of Abdelasis , but where Alfonzo himself stood , no one was moving . 
He now saw that the palace in which he had seen Xariffa was not on the square before him , for it was to the north , on his left . 
By reflecting a moment , he believed he could find its front , and thus by personal inspection , ascertain exactly how strongly it was guarded ; and whether , if he could gain access by the casement , he should be able to escape with her some other way . 
With this object in his mind , he turned out of the square to the left , and by mentally comparing the situation of Senor Velez 's abode with the situation of the casement , he was enabled to find the street upon which it fronted . 
Alfonzo saw at a glance , that it would be impossible for him to rescue his sister alone , and return with her as he had hoped to do , to the mountains , after his own mission to Cordova should be terminated . 
He went on , however , to the extremity of the lofty wall , in belief that he might find some opening less strongly guarded ; but he found no other gate . 
He was about to turn back , giving up the hope of recovering his sister , and anxious lest she shonld be led by the love and rank of the Caliph to renounce her faith , when his eye fell on a scarlet turban made of wood and painted , suspended over the door of a humble habitation , but a few paces further down the street . 
His heart bounded with joy and delighted surprise . 
He recollected that this was the sign of the house of the Moor , Yussef Ben Habib , where Ben Osmin was sojourning with Genilla . 
Genilla was not visible , and Alfonzo looked towards a small apartment on the left of Ben Osmin , which , he believed , held her from his wistful gaze . 
Therewas a moment 's pause in the conversation , during which Alfonzo had time to reflect rapidly upon the wonderful intelligence which he had heard . 
He didhear a noise -- it was the footstep of Alfonzo , who , finding that he could learn nothing more , and that Genilla was asleep and in safety , recollecting his engagement with Senor Velez , retired from the corridor , but not without striking a loose brick of the paved floor . 
He rapidly sealed the wall , and lighted undiscovered in the street , along which he moved rapidly , to hasten back to the merchant 's house . 
He had made happy discoveries during the two hours ' absence of Senor Velez : -- he had found where Xariffa was imprisoned , and that she rather loved her cage than desired to be stolen from it ! 
-- he had found Genilla , and learned not only her safety , but that she had now claims to his regard more sacred and stronger than ever . 
They confronted each other for a momeat in hostile attitude , the third standing a little behind the second , when Alfonzo thought he recognised the height and air of the latter . 
` Alfonzo ! ' 
asked Alfonzo , suddenly forgetting Genilla , Xariffa and every thing but Spain and her wrongs ! 
By sun-rise a thousand Christian slaves in Cordova will know that Alfonzo the Destroyer has resolved to lift the standard of the Cross on the eve of San Diego upon the rock of St. Paul . 
I am already inspired by thy tidings , ' answered Alfonzo , as he walked homeward with him , the Nubian slave following close behind him with his no longer needful lantern in his hand . 
Upen entering the house , and once more being seated , Senor Velez gave a minute relation of what he had done which convinced Alfonzo that he should receive the co-operation of almost as many strong arms within the walls of the Moors as without . 
He then related to the Senor his own adventures and even unfolded to him his love for Genilla now that he could speak of her as the daughter of Christian parents . 
` Forget her and give your thoughts to your country , Alfonzo ! ' 
Do you know , Alfonzo , that I have my suspicions ! ' 
exclaimed Alfonzo , who had gone to the wicket with him . 
exclaimed Alfonzo , surveying him . 
` And , perhaps , you can aid me , Athir , ' answered Alfonzo , after a moment 's reflection . 
He then briefly stated how he had discovered her , and his fears that if she were suffered to remain longer in the power and presence of Abdelasis she might return his love for her . 
asked Alfonzo . 
asked Alfonzo , as he took from his hand a large signet . 
` It is , my lord , ' answered Athir , as Alfonzo fastened on him a glance of surprise and inquiry . 
` I took it from his own chamber , for he was absent -- doubtless at the palace of his captive . 
` Then go and see Xariffa , and say to her from whom you come , and urge her to fly with you to the Sierras . 
Will you not accompany her ? ' 
I will do all I can to save her ; if she will not come with me , I will re turn to you . 
What token shall I give her to prove that you sent me ? ' 
` Take this key -- it is known to her . ' 
Leaving Alfonzo to discuss farther the details of the contemplated revolution which was to place Spain once more under the Christian rule , we will follow the disguised page to the gate of the palace where Alfonzo had seen the four guards stationed . 
He presented his signet boldly , and was at once admitted with great respect . 
Upon reaching the ante-room to her apartments , the eunuch said , bowing his head to the ground in the presence of the Caliph 's messenger : ` Does my lord Effendi wish to see the Christian slave in person , or speak with one of her attendants , and through he convey his Highness ' message to the maiden . ' 
` I will see her -- go and announce me . 
At her feet , a little removed , crouched in an attitude of natural grace , sat the beautiful Arabian maid her attendant , whom Alfonzo had seen appear at the casement , and warn her of the approach of the Prince after his serenade . 
I will intercede with him to pardon you for taking his signet , which you will now give me ; and return at once to Alfonzo and tell him that I -- I -- ' Here the Christian maiden hesitated and blushed . 
` I will end the sentence for thee , lady , ' answered Nube , smiling ; ` tell him that you love the Prince Abdelasis and mean to make him happy by sharing his throne and heart . ' 
For Alfonzo 's sake only am I sorry ! 
He will grieve to hear it ! ' 
` No -- words are less eloquent than thy throbbing bosom and beaming eye as he is spoken of ! ' 
` What shall I say to Alfonzo ? ' 
` Urge him to caution lest he should be discovered ; and tell him that I know the Prince will treat me with all honour . 
He bore the news to Alfonzo ; and the brow of the brother darkened , and his vengeance against Abdelasis was awakened anew . 
But when Athir told him of his meeting with Nube , the brow of anger relaxed , and he shewed by the expression of his smiling face , that he sympathized fully in the happiness of his friend . 
The emissaries which had departed from Alfonzo in the forest , to rouse up the Christians in the mountains , and in the plains , were everywhere received with joy and hailed as messengers of deliverance . 
The name of Alfonzo had preceded them to the remotest recesses of the vallies , and been heard by the farthest mountaineer . 
Every where men were told that Alfonzo the Destroyer was to raise again the standard of the cross on the eve of St. James , their eyes brightened , they shook off their slavish indifference , and grasping their rude weapons , desired to be led against the Moor . 
The standard of the cross is to be lifted up by the hand of Alfonzo the Destroyer . 
With such words as these did those zealous mountaineers who had caught the spirit of Alfonzo , spread the news of the contemplated movement . 
` The eve of San Diego ' was on every tongue , blended with the proudly uttered name of Alfonzo the Destroyer . 
Secretly sixteen thousand men prepared to rise upon their conquerors and masters as soon as the trumpet of Alfonzo should be heard at midnight without the walls , proclaiming his presence with an army . 
Alfonzo had held frequent secret meetings , at the house of Senor Velez , with the principal Christians in the city , and chosen his leaders of division and regularly organised the masses , so that they should act with harmony and effect . 
Some parties were to occupy the several palaces , and the chief party to attack the principal gate on the inner side , and endeavor to open it for the entrance of Alfonzo and his army . 
Having made all these arrangements with great wisdom and an almost innate knowledge of military affairs , Alfonzo , after remaining four days in Cordova , returned from the city to the hamlet . 
Alfonzo having devoted the three next days , during which armed detachments were constantly coming in by the mountain roads , to the selection of his officers and the arrangement of the plan of the revolution , which he as effectually organised in the Sierras as he had done within the city , he resolved once more to revisit Cordova in diguise . 
Alfonzo had now leisure to make inquiries of the hermit touching the birth of Genilla , and from him , to his surprise , learned that she was , as the merchant had suspected , the daughter of the Duke de Cordava and the sole heiress to the throne of Spain . 
Alfonzo loves you . 
Embrace the faith of your father 's and become the wife of Alfonzo , and let him , in your name , raise once more the standard of your royal ancestors . ' 
The result of the interview was a desire on her part to see Alfonzo . 
The eloquence and love of Alfonzo prevailed . 
Convinced that she was the child of a Christian race , the daughter of Christian kings , she promised to embrace the faith of the Cross in the great principles of which she had already been instructed not only the priest Paulus , but by Alfonzo himself . 
She felt that the parting would be painful , but she was firm in uniting her destinies with those of Alfonzo and Spain . 
The same night she was under Alfonzo protection in the house of Senor Velez , and there in the presence of a score of the chief conspirators she was baptized , partook of the Holy Communion , and then receiving the sign of the cross , was solemnly united in marriage with Alfonzo . 
The Prince then made him give an account of his adventures , which he did -- save that portion , which related to his service with Alfonzo , upon which he remained silent . 
-- Alfonzo heard of it in the Siarras at Paul 's Rock , and was pained to the heart at this seeming manifestation of her falsity to her faith and country . 
Alfonzo stood upon the Rock of St. Paul , and beheld around him an army of forty thousand men , for so readily and warmly had Spain responded to the call upon her . 
The moon was just rising over the peak of Corol when mounted upon his charger , he marched at the head of his forces against the walls of Cordova , two leagues distant . 
Already had Abdelasis got rumour of the assembling of forces for a day past in the Sierras , and he was preparing an army to sally out upon them , not suspecting their purpose , or guessing at their number . 
-- But as he was in his saddle , reviewing his troops , in the Great Square , as the moon rose over the peak of Corol , El Zegris came dashing up at full speed and said -- ` My Prince , pardon me ! 
-- Alfonzo , the destroyer , is assembled at the head of thirty thousand armed Christians , and is preparing to storm the city . 
-- The gates were carried -- Alfonzo entered at the head of ten thousand men , and swept the city . 
Abdelasis was taken prisonor , and El Zegris slain by the hand of Alfonzo . 
Zariffa perished by the hands af the Moorish officers of the palace who charged her with having been the mover of the revolution . 
Addelasis was beheaded on the terrace of his own palace . 
Alfonzo , with his royal bride , Genilla , was proclaimed King of Spain , and the Triumph of Liberty , and of the Cross over the Crescent , and Moslem bondage , was complete . 
