The narrative of this enterprise is chiefly drawn from the writings of Rene Laudonniere , who himself went out as a lieutenant in the expedition . 
Laudonniere , in his narrative of their progress , says nothing of the secret objects of Coligny , of which he probably knew nothing . 
There is no question that the expedition originated wholly with Coligny ; as little is it questionable , though Laudonniere says nothing on this subject , that it was designed in consequence of that policy which showed him the ever present danger of the Huguenots . 
Laudonniere speaks of the armament as ample for the purpose for which it was designed -- `` so well furnished with gentlemen and with oulde souldiers that he -LRB- Ribault -RRB- had meanes to achieve some notable thing , and worthie of eternall memorie . '' 
The depth of this river is such , that , according to Laudonniere , `` when the sea beginneth to flowe , the greatest shippes of France , yea , the argosies of Venice , may enter there . '' 
The language of Laudonniere is sufficiently vague and general to make the matter doubtful ; and , unhappily , there are no remains which might tend to lessen the obscurity of the subject . 
It was not wholly because he was `` moved with the singular fairenesse and bignesse of them , '' as Laudonniere imagines , but because his soul was lifted with religious sentiment -- filled with worship at that wondrous temple of nature in which the great Jehovah seemed visibly present , in love and mercy , as in the first sweet days of the creation . 
Laudonniere set himself to work to acquire their language . 
They had simply changed their policy ; and , when , after several days detention , they had succeeded in lulling to sleep the suspicions of their captors , they stole away at midnight from the ship , leaving behind them all the gifts which had been forced upon them , as if , to have retained them , would have established , in the pale-faces , a right to their liberties -- thus showing , according to Laudonniere , `` that they were not void of reason . '' 
This is in seeming conflict with what Laudonniere has already told us touching the character and condition in society of the persons employed in the expedition . 
They were taken by Laudonniere , and one Captain Salles , under Ribault 's directions . 
Besides , it is actually in the very latitude of the site , as given by Laudonniere ; and the tradition of the Indians , as preserved by our own people , seems to confirm and to conclude the conjectures on this subject . 
eaf373.n3 -LSB- 3 -RSB- Laudonniere , in Hakluyt , gives the regal title among the Floridians as Paracoussi . 
eaf373.n5 -LSB- 5 -RSB- Charlevoix seems to afford a sufficient sanction for the claim of Laudonniere , in behalf of the gentle blood among the followers of Ribault . 
Laudonniere in Hackluyt uniformly uses the orthography which we adopt , and which furnishes a coincidence so really striking in the preservation of a name so nearly the same in sound , to this very day , in the same region . 
The word is thus written by Laudonniere in Hakluyt . 
They do not even amuse by their conjectures , and Laudonniere stops short in his narrative of what did happen , apologizing for having said so much on so trifling a matter . 
eaf373.n13 -LSB- 13 -RSB- The names are thus written by Laudonniere in Hakluyt . 
Laudonniere , who writes for them , and was one of their number , seldom deals in a religious phraseology , which he might reasonably be expected to have done as one of a people leaving their homes for the sake of conscience . 
It is not denied that they had great provocation to violence ; but Laudonniere himself admits that they were , in all probability , `` not so obedient to their captain as they should have been . '' 
The Fortress of La Caroline and the Colony of Laudonniere . 
Three ships , and a considerable amount of money , were accorded to his application ; and the new armament was assigned to the command of René Laudonniere -- a man of intelligence , a good seaman rather than a soldier , and one who had accompanied Ribault on his first expedition , though he had not remained with the colony . 
-LSB- 17 -RSB- Laudonniere found it easy enough to procure his men , not only for the voyage but the colony . 
Laudonniere himself tells us of natives whom he had seen who were certainly more than two hundred and fifty years old , and yet , who entertained a reasonable hope of living fifty or a hundred years longer . 
The armament of Laudonniere was ready for sea , and sailed from France on the 22d April , 1564 . 
It was with a pleased surprise that Laudonniere found the pillar encircled and crowned with wreaths of bay and laurel , with which the affectionate red-men had dressed the stone , in proof of the interest which they had taken in this imposing memorial of their intercourse with the white strangers . 
Their Paracoussy , or king , was named Satouriova , the oldest of whose sons , named Athore , is described by Laudonniere as `` perfect in beautie . '' 
Satouriova presented Laudonniere with a `` wedge of silver '' -- one of those gifts which by no means lessened the importance of the giver , or of his country , in the eyes of our voyager . 
But Laudonniere had something more to learn . 
What Laudonniere means by the paintings of the Indians , `` representing antiquity , '' is not so clear . 
The vessels of Laudonniere passed up the river , himself and parties of his people landing occasionally , to examine particular spots of country . 
Monsieur de Ottigny , a lieutenant of Laudonniere , with a small party , is conducted into the presence of a Cassique , whose great apparent age prompts him to inquire concerning it . 
While the lieutenant of Laudonniere was thus held in discourse by the aged Indians , his commander was enjoying himself in more luxurious fashion . 
Laudonniere departed with great reluctance from a region so favorable to health , so beautiful to the eye , and which promised so abundantly of fruits and mineral treasures . 
Here Laudonniere is again presented with specimens of the precious metals , and here we find him already in consultation with his men , touching the propriety of abandoning the settlement of Fort Charles , the fate of which he has heard in his progress from the Indians , for the more attractive regions of the river May . 
The views of Laudonniere were promptly agreed to by his followers ; and , sailing back to the river of May , they reached it at daybreak on the 29th June . 
Laudonniere names this pleasant region after himself , the `` vale of Laudonniere . '' 
Laudonniere remembers that his people are Christians ; and , at the break of day , on the 30th June , 1564 , the trumpets were sounded , and our Huguenots were called to prayer . 
It will be an employment of curious interest , whenever the people of Florida shall happen upon the true site of the settlement and structure of Laudonniere , to trace out , in detail , these several localities , and fix them for the benefit of posterity . 
eaf373.n17 -LSB- 17 -RSB- Charlevoix describes Laudonniere as `` un gentilhomme de mérite -- bon officier de marine , et qui avoit même servi sur terre avec distinction . 
eaf373.n20 -LSB- 20 -RSB- Jacques de Moyne de Morgues represents the Indian Chief or Paracoussi of the neighborhood , Satouriova by name , as taking great umbrage at the erection of the fortress La Caroline within his dominions ; thus differing from Laudonniere , who describes him and his subjects as cheerfully assisting in its erection . 
The domain was a narrow one , but it was probably sufficiently wide for the genius of Laudonniere . 
These , unhappily , were not objects sufficiently appreciated by Laudonniere . 
Instead of planting , they rely for their provisions wholly upon the Indians ; and , for eighteen months , the lieutenants of Laudonniere penetrated the forests in every possible direction . 
These two summon Laudonniere to the expedition for which they have prepared themselves against the Thimogoans , and are offended that he now excuses himself . 
It was confided to Monsieur D'Erlach , one of Laudonniere 's lieutenants , and consisted of ten soldiers . 
While thus engaged in the avaricious search for the precious metals , Laudonniere began to receive some intimations of the error into which he had fallen . 
We must let Laudonniere himself record the event , which had such beneficial consequences , in his own language : `` Thus , '' said he , `` things passed on in this manner , and the hatred of Paracoussi Satouriova against mee did still continue , untill that , on the nine and twentieth of August , a lightning from heaven fell within halfe a league of our fort , more worthy , I believe , to be wondered at , and to be put in writing , than all the strange signes which have beene seene in times past . 
The simple message of the Paracoussi , suggested some advantages to Laudonniere , who did not now scruple to admit that all the mischief had been done by his wanton ordnance . 
Since , however , the Paracoussi had come to the recollection of his duties , he , Laudonniere , would protect him hereafter . 
The distress of Laudonniere , under these events , was increased by discontents and mutinies among his people . 
The government of Laudonniere , if not a wise , was not a brutal or despotic one . 
Thenecessities of the colony now began to open the eyes of Laudonniere in respect to the errors of which he had been guilty . 
One of these was named La Roquette , of the country of Perigort ; the other was known as Le Genré , a lieutenant , and somewhat in the confidence of Laudonniere . 
He was more easily beguiled into conspiracy , in consequence of the refusal of Laudonniere to give him the command of a packet returning into France . 
Le Genré , one of the lieutenants of Laudonniere , was of fierce and intractable temper . 
It had been the task of Laudonniere more than once to interfere between these persons , and prevent those outrages which he had every reason to apprehend from their mutual excitability ; and it was partly with the view to keep the parties separate , that he had so frequently despatched D'Erlach upon his exploring expeditions . 
In choosing him for the command of his most important expeditions , Laudonniere was , in fact , doing simple justice to the superior endowments of caution , prudence , moderation , and firmness , which the young officer confessedly possessed in very eminent degree . 
Laudonniere was not ignorant of the factious spirit of his discontented lieutenant . 
But Laudonniere 's vigilance was partial only ; and his suspicions were by no means so intense as those of D'Erlach . 
Signs of insubordination had been shown already , on various occasions ; and had not Laudonniere been of that character which more easily frets with its doubts than provides against them , he might have legitimately employed a salutary punishment in anticipating worse offences . 
Laudonniere , without having absolute cause to punish , was equally wanting in the nice tact which can , adroitly , and without a fall from dignity , conciliate the inferior . 
Laudonniere passed among these groups with the look of one who did not sympathize with their enjoyments . 
This young man shared in the odium of his brother , as he also was supposed to enjoy too largely the favors of Laudonniere . 
`` And you think , Alphonse , '' said Laudonniere , when they had entered the wood , `` that La Genré is really anxious to return to France in the Sylph . '' 
Laudonniere wheeled about , with the purpose of returning . 
said Laudonniere . 
Laudonniere had not been impressed by the suggestion of his youthful counsellor ; or , if he were , he was not prepared to yield a vessel of the king , with all its men and munitions , to the control of one who might abuse them to the worst purposes . 
`` Nay , '' said Laudonniere , `` but I better prefer your services here -- I can not so well dispense with them . '' 
eaf373.n21 -LSB- 21 -RSB- Laudonniere , in Hakluyt , spells this name improperly . 
There are men enough , or will be enough , when we have got rid of Laudonniere , to undertake both objects . 
But the question finally settled down upon the fate of Laudonniere , and a few of his particular friends , the young D' Erlach being the first among them . 
`` Messieurs , '' said he , `` you all seem agreed upon two things ; the first is , that , before we can do anything , Laudonniere and that young devil , D'Erlach , must be disposed of ; the second , that this is rather a difficult matter . 
`` Very well ; now , as it is doubtful who are certainly the friends of Laudonniere , it is agreed that we must move against him secretly . 
Laudonniere 's quarters , as you all know , stand apart from all the rest , with the exception of the little building occupied by the division of Le Genré , with which it is connected by the old bath-room . 
This bath-room is abandoned since Laudonniere has taken to the river . 
and suppose farther , that , by the merest mischance , he should suffer a train of powder to follow his footsteps , as he crawls from one apartment to the other ; and suppose again , that , while Laudonniere sleeps , some careless person should suffer a coal of fire to rest , only for a moment , upon the train in the bath-house . 
`` Yes , '' replied Bon Pre , `` but it is not always that Laudonniere drinks his coffee . 
I will see Laudonniere in an hour . 
Laudonniere will sleep , you understand . '' 
I am not resolved ; but , at all events , for the present , Laudonniere must know nothing . 
I will see Laudonniere but a few moments before I sleep . '' 
The chamber of D'Erlach was in the same building with that of Laudonniere . 
D'Erlach purposely made some noise in approaching his , and Laudonniere cried out , `` Who is there ? 
demanded Laudonniere , half rising at this preliminary . 
asked Laudonniere , whose passion for the game had prompted D'Erlach with the suggestion he made use of . 
`` You are a singular person , Alphonse ; '' said Laudonniere , smiling . 
Laudonniere heard the youth with half-shut eyes , and the dialogue languished on the part of the former ; but D'Erlach seemed resolute to keep him wakeful , and suggested continually new provocatives to conversation , until his superior , absolutely worn out with exhaustion , bade him go to sleep himself or suffer him to do so . 
In less than an hour , hearing a sound as of one entering , he hastily went out of his chamber , for he had neither undressed himself nor slept , and met Bon Pre , with the salver of coffee , about to go into the chamber of Laudonniere . 
Laudonniere is not likely to awaken soon , and I will remain with him 'till he does . 
They entered the chamber of Laudonniere . 
When Laudonniere wakened the liquor was cold . 
By this time Laudonniere was dressed and they descended the court together . 
`` Has he drunk , '' asked Le Genré anxiously , with Forneaux and La Roquette on each side , as they beheld Bon Pre descending from the chamber of Laudonniere with the vessel in his hand . 
They separated , and entered , from different points , the area where Laudonniere stood . 
But Laudonniere saw nothing to suspect , either in his countenance , or in the proceedings of the conspirator . 
Laudonniere neither suspected his industry nor its object . 
Beauvais , and one or two brave and trusty friends , were placed there without the privity of any one , and the chess-party , including Marchand , Le Moyne and Challus , were properly apprized of the arrangements for the game between the former and Laudonniere . 
He explored the cellar of the building in which he and Laudonniere slept , and there , as he expected , the arrangements had been already made for sending the Chief and himself by the shortest possible road to heaven . 
Atthe hour appointed that night , for the contest between the chess players , Marchand , accompanied by Le Moyne and Challus , made his appearance in the apartments of René Laudonniere . 
Meanwhile , of the designs against him and of the means taken for his safety , Laudonniere had not the slightest suspicion . 
This answer piqued Laudonniere . 
The face of Alphonse D'Erlach might also be perceptible , in a momentary glance over the shoulders of one or other of the parties ; but his movements were capricious , and , passing frequently between his own and the chamber of Laudonniere , he only looked at intervals upon the progress of the game . 
Enough , that Laudonniere put forth all his skill , exercised all his caution , played as slowly and heedfully as possible , and was -- but we anticipate . 
That his opinions were of this character is beyond all question ; but , though his countenance expressed as much , Laudonniere reassured himself with the reflection that Marchand was well understood to be one of those fortunate persons who know admirably how to disguise their real emotions , however deeply they may be excited or anxious . 
Laudonniere 's self-esteem was not deficient , in the absence of better virtues . 
There will be little danger , I grant you , with Laudonniere , and that imp of the devil , D'Erlach , out of the way ; but it must be prepared for . 
Let us adjourn our progress to the chamber of Laudonniere , where that meditative gamester still sits deliberate , with knotted brow , watching the movements of Marchand . 
There Laudonniere sate , seeing nothing but the pieces before him . 
He leaned back in his seat , smiling grimly , and with a wink , now and then , to those who watched and waited upon the movements of Laudonniere . 
said Laudonniere , with some sharpness in his accents , -- `` and pray Monsieur Alphonse , how do you see that ? '' 
exclaimed Laudonniere -- `` you talk illogically , you know nothing about it . 
said Laudonniere , not lifting his head . 
said Laudonniere , making the move that Marchand had anticipated . 
exclaimed Laudonniere -- `` The magazine ! '' 
The dwelling of Laudonniere was only shaken by the explosion . 
Already were the trusted soldiers of Laudonniere approaching them . 
The other leading conspirators , Le Genevois , La Fourneaux , and La Roquette , at first determined not to fly , not yet dreaming that they were the objects of suspicion ; but when they beheld Bon Pre , late one of their associates , marshalling one of the squads of Laudonniere , they at once conjectured the mode and the extent of the discovery . 
In regard to the inferior persons concerned in the conspiracy , D'Erlach said nothing to Laudonniere , and counselled Bon Pre to silence also . 
demanded Laudonniere , as they threw out the mangled remains of the incendiary from the scene of ruin . 
demanded the bewildered Laudonniere , not yet recovered from his astonishment and alarm . 
Thepolicy of Laudonniere , influenced by the judgment of Alphonse D'Erlach suffered the proceedings of the conspiracy to pass without farther scrutiny . 
Le Genré , meanwhile , wrote to Laudonniere , in repentant language , from the neighboring forests . 
About this time , a vessel with supplies arrived from France which enabled Laudonniere to send despatches home , containing a full narrative of the events which had passed . 
Laudonniere proceeded to build other boats ; which were seized when finished by the leaders of a new conspiracy , among whom were La Fourneaux , Stephen le Genevois , and others who were distinguished in this manner before . 
They finally seized Laudonniere in person , and extorted from him a privateer 's commission . 
It was as an ally of sovereigns that Laudonniere was extending his orders . 
Of the two former kings , such had been the account brought to Laudonniere , that he at first imagined them to be Spaniards . 
Laudonniere had not been wholly neglectful , even while he seemed to sleep upon his arms , of the reported treasures of the country . 
Lieutenant Achille D'Erlach , the brother of the favorite Alphonse , had been absent in this way , during all the period when Laudonniere was threatened by conspiracy ; and it was now decreed that , even while his brother continued absent , Alphonse should depart also . 
The eagerness of Laudonniere would admit of no delay . 
His auguments and entreaties proved irresistible , and the present earnestness of Laudonniere , at La Caroline , was in preparing for this expedition . 
No doubt the natural tendency of the savage might be stimulated and made more inveterate and active , by European arts ; and Laudonniere , however Huguenot , was too little the Christian to forbear them . 
A knife , the gift of Laudonniere , was the only other weapon which he bore ; but this was one of those very precious acquisitions which the Indian had already purposed to bury with him . 
His features , as he drew nigh to Laudonniere , were marked with more gravity and earnestness than they usually expressed ; and , touching the wrist of his commander , as he approached him , he beckoned him somewhat farther from his followers : `` It is not too late , '' said he , `` to escape this arrangement . '' 
`` To prevent this danger , Alphonse , you shall have command of the detachment , '' said Laudonniere , with a dry accent , and a satirical glance of the eye . 
exclaimed Laudonniere , with renewed impatience . 
`` It is resolved on , '' said Laudonniere , with grave emphasis . 
They had no fears from the sagacity of Laudonniere , during the absence of the youthful but vigilant D'Erlach ; and , for the latter , he was to be disposed of by Oolenoe . 
He repents , and is constantly writing to Laudonniere for mercy and pity , and all that sort of thing . 
He certainly would not think of risking them within La Caroline , while Laudonniere was in power . 
The credulous Laudonniere , delighted with assurances of success on the part of his lieutenant , was not particularly heedful of the nature of the evidence thus afforded him , and laid his head on an easy pillow , around which danger hovered in almost visible forms , while he , unconsciously , dreamed only of golden conquests , and discoveries which were equally to result in fame and fortune . 
He was one of the trusted followers of Laudonniere , whose superior cunning alone had saved him from suspicion , even that of D'Erlach , at the detection of the former conspiracy . 
`` René Laudonniere , '' said Stephen Le Genevois , in his bitter tones , `` you are in our power . 
`` You know us , René Laudonniere ? '' 
As Laudonniere perused the document , he strove to raise himself , as with a strong movement of aversion ; -- but the prompt grasp of Genevois fastened him down to the pillow . 
Laudonniere was silent . 
Beware , René Laudonniere . 
as I hope to be saved , René Laudonniere , you shall have your life and freedom ! '' 
There , René Laudonniere , you are free ! '' 
Forfifteen days was Laudonniere kept a close prisoner by the conspirators on board of one of his own vessels , attended by one of their own number , and denied all intercourse with his friends and people . 
At the same moment , with head bowed upon his bosom , the unhappy Laudonniere , for the first time fully conscious of his weakness and his misfortune , -- deeply sensible now to all his shame as he reflected upon the roving commission which had been extorted from him by the mutineers , -- turned his footsteps from the banks of the river , and made his way slowly towards the fortress ; -- confident no longer in his strength -- suspicious of the faith of all around him -- and half tempted to sink his shame forever , with his dishonored person , in the waters of the river which had witnessed his disgrace . 
They had , as we have seen , succeeded in fitting out two barks ; one on which was confided to Bertrand Conferrant , one of Laudonniere 's sergeants ; the other to a soldier named D'Orange . 
La Croix was named the ensign to the former ; Trenchant , the pilot of Laudonniere , was compelled , against his will , to assume this station on board the vessel of D'Orange . 
The latter had grown strong by consultation together , and the true men urged the less guilty of the conspirators with promises of pardon at the hands of Laudonniere . 
One of the parties personated the character of the judge : another counterfeited the costume and manner of Laudonniere , and appeared as the accuser . 
It was somewhat ominous , however , that their judge -- himself one of the most guilty -- should say to them , when summing up for judgment -- `` Make your case as clear as you please -- exert your ingenuity as you may , in finding excuses , yet , take my word for it , that , when you reach La Caroline , if Laudonniere causes you not to swing for it , then I will never take him for an honest man again . '' 
It was only when the offenders were fairly in the hands of Laudonniere , beyond escape or remedy , that they were taught to apprehend that they had too greatly exaggerated their sense of his mercy . 
`` These are none of your companions , '' said Laudonniere ; -- `` they are no authors of seditions -- no rebels unto the king 's service . 
A corps of thirty soldiers with their matchlocks ready , and under the command of Alphonse D'Erlach , who had returned from his Indian expedition , and who now stood ready and prompt to execute the orders of the chief , were , perhaps , more potent in silencing the appeal of the mutineer , and quieting the active sympathies of those to whom he prayed , than all the words of Laudonniere . 
He was quite familiar with the vanity of Laudonniere , his several weaknesses of character , and the facility with which he might be deluded by the selfish and the artful . 
Laudonniere 's conscience smote him with a sense of his ingratitude , as the flowing plumes of D'Erlach disappeared amidst the distant umbrage ; but he had no misgivings of that danger which the prescient thought of his lieutenant had described as already threatening . 
The stranger was no other than Le Genré -- the banished man who had headed the first conspiracy against Laudonniere . 
I wrote to Laudonniere of my sorrow and repentance , but he refused to hear me . 
To them , at times , came La Croix , whom Laudonniere still trusted , and whom even you did not suspect . 
In your absence , they were to get possession of the garrison and secure the person of Laudonniere . '' 
`` Ay , do I -- the garrison is in their hands -- the shipping ; and Laudonniere is himself a close prisoner on board the unfinished brigantine . '' 
`` When the conspirators found that I no longer agreed to second them in their machinations , and when I threatened to expose them to Laudonniere , they employed Oolenoe to secure my person . 
With Laudonniere in their hands , I was abandoned by my keepers , and suffered to go forth . 
I saw the danger , and felt that the only hope for Laudonniere lay in you . 
I must preserve my force against that doubt ; but keep them fresh , certainly , and if possible without diminution , so that I may rescue Laudonniere or sustain myself . 
That night they reached the fortress , in season to confirm the authority of Laudonniere ; and , as we have seen , to assist in the execution of the mutineers by whom he had been temporarily overthrown . 
Sustainedand reassured by the return of his lieutenant , Laudonniere , released from his bonds , proceeded to re-organize his garrison . 
Thus , feeding well , with his health and self-esteem gradually recovering , Laudonniere began to resume his explorations , and to cast his eyes about him with his old desire for precious discoveries It was about this time that he was visited by a couple of savages from the dominions of King Maracou . 
The Indians , among other matters , related to Laudonniere that , in the service of another native monarch named Onathaqua , there was a man whom they called `` Barbu , or the bearded man , '' who was not of the people of the country . 
From the descriptions thus given him , Laudonniere readily conceived that these strange men were Christians . 
The conjecture of Laudonniere proved rightly founded . 
When the two Spaniards were brought before Laudonniere they were entirely naked . 
But Laudonniere was not disposed to permit their acquired habits to supersede those of their origin . 
Then , at the repeated entreaty of Monsieur Laudonniere , Barbu arose and spoke : `` First , Señor Captain , I have to declare how much I thank you for the protection you have given me , the kindness which has clad me once more in Christian garments , and the cost and travail with which you have recovered me from my bonds among the heathen . 
Here our captain , Laudonniere , interrupted Barbu , and said -- `` Verily , Señor Spaniard , had thy prayer been addressed to God himself , the Father , through the intervention and the mediation of the Blessed Saviour , his Son , whose blood was shed for sinners , it might have better profited thy case . 
`` And so , indeed , it might , Señor Spaniard , '' said Laudonniere graciously ; then , as the latter remained silent , Barbu continued : `` Doubtless , Señor , as I said before , the bloody Juan de Mores y Silva , was the Jonah of our vessel , on whose account the Blessed Providence turned a deaf ear to our prayers and entreaties . 
said Laudonniere , interrupting the narrator . 
replied Barbu , `` thou compellest me , Señor Laudonniere , to unravel sin after sin before thee . 
The Spaniard hung his head as he made this confession , while Laudonniere with severe aspect rated him for his lecheries . 
Here Captain Laudonniere interrupted the speaker . 
`` Alas , Señor Laudonniere , thy question shames me again , since it requires of me to lay bare another of the vices of my evil heart , and to confess how the bad passions thereof could lead me into follies which proved fatal to my better fortune . 
demanded Laudonniere as Le Barbu paused , and covered his face with his hands in silence , as if overcome with a great misery . 
`` Thou shalt hear , Señor . 
Wehave already mentioned that , with the restoration of Laudonniere to power , and the complete subjection of his mutineers , he resumed by degrees his projects of exploration and discovery . 
To Audusta , himself , were sent two suits of apparel , with knives , hatchets and other trifles ; `` the better , '' as Laudonniere says , `` to insinuate myselfe into his friendship . '' 
Audusta received his visitors with great favor , -- sent back to Laudonniere a large supply of `` mil , with a certaine quantity of beanes , two stagges , some skinnes painted after their manner , and certaine pearles of small value , because they were burnt . '' 
The period of this visit to Audusta , which was probably in he month of December , is distinguished in the chronicle of Laudonniere , by expressions of delightful surprise at the number of stock doves -LRB- wild pigeons -RRB- which came about the garrison -- `` in so greate number , that , for the space of seven weekes together , '' they `` killed with harquebush shot at least two hundred every day . '' 
The visit of Laudonniere , through his lieutenant , was returned , in a few days , by the beautiful widow , through her Hiatiqui , `` which is as much as to say , her Interpreter . '' 
Holata , as we now write the word , is evidently the Olata of Laudonniere . 
One of them , named Groutald , a gentleman who had taken great pains in this exploration , reported to Laudonniere that he had never seen a fairer country . 
It was the counsel of Monsieur Groutald to Laudonniere that he should unite in a league with this king , and by this means reduce the whole country into subjection . 
Hostaqua sent to Laudonniere `` a plate of a minerall that came out of this mountaine , -- out of the foote whereof '' -- such was the glowing account given by the Indian monarch -- `` there runneth a streame of golde or copper . '' 
Laudonniere is greatly impressed by this intelligence , `` and because the mountaine was not past five or six days journey from our fort , lying towards the north-west , I determined , as soone as our supply should come out of France , to remove our habitation unto some river more towards the north , that I might be nearer thereunto . '' 
An incident , which occurred about this time , still further increased the appetites of Laudonniere . 
When the tidings came to Laudonniere , he was not in a situation to revenge the crime ; but the large acquisitions of gold and silver procured by his soldier , as reported to him , confirmed him in his anxiety to penetrate these tantalizing realms , in which the rivers ran with such glittering abundance from rocks whose caverns promised to outvie all that Arabian story had ever fabled of the magical treasures of Aladdin . 
The former applied for assistance to Laudonniere , who , adopting the policy of the `` Spaniards , when they were imployed in their conquests , who did always enter into alliance with some one king to ruine another , '' readily sent him thirty arquebusiers , under Lieutenant Ottigny . 
Ottigny returned to the fort , after two days spent in this manner with Utina , and his return was followed by visits from numerous other chiefs , nearer neighbors than Utina , and enemies of that savage , who came to expostulate with Laudonniere against his lending succor to a prince who was equally faithless and selfish . 
We have seen that certain subsidies of corn and beans had been procured from various tribes and nations ; enough , according to Laudonniere , to serve them until the arrival of expected succors from France . 
From the savages , accordingly , nothing but scanty supplies of fish could be procured , without which , says Laudonniere , `` assuredly wee had perished from famine . '' 
They fell finally into famine , of which Laudonniere himself affords us a sufficiently impressive picture . 
Laudonniere lent an easy ear to their demands . 
Laudonniere , himself , undertook to seek for this supply . 
To this , at first , Laudonniere would not consent . 
When Laudonniere remonstrated against their prices , their answer was a bitter mockery . 
His subjects followed his example ; and , in the end , goaded to madness , Laudonniere resolved on adopting the course which his people had counselled ; that , by which , taking one of their kings prisoner , food could be extorted for his ransom . 
It being determined by Laudonniere , in the necessities of his people , to seize upon the person of the great Paracoussi , Olata Ouvae Utina , in order , by the ransom which he should extort , to relieve the famine which prevailed among the garrison , he proceeded to make his preparations for the event . 
Leaving a sufficent guard in their vessels , Laudonniere and his company landed and proceeded in this quarter . 
These , Laudonniere did not think proper to arrest , though counselled to do so by D'Erlach . 
Laudonniere appeared in the royal wigwam with but ten companions . 
The Paracoussi nodded to his guests as the boy presented both baskets , and Laudonniere , with two others of his company , helped themselves to pipes and weed . 
But the necessities of our Frenchmen were too great and pressing , at the present time , to be silenced wholly by convention ; and when , as if in mockery , a small troncher of parched corn was set before them , with a vessel of water , the impatience of Laudonniere broke into utterance . 
`` Awhile , awhile , Alphonse -- be not too hasty , my son ; '' was the reply of Laudonniere . 
The lordly chieftain deigned not a single glance to the European wares , which , at a word from Laudonniere , one of the French soldiers laid at his feet . 
At length , Laudonniere 's patience was exhausted , and he gave the signal which had been agreed upon with his lieutenant . 
At first his stoicism was shared by his family and attendants ; but when Laudonniere declared his purpose to remove his prisoner to the boats , then the clamors of women , not less eloquent in the wigwam of the savage , than in the household of the pale faces , became equally wild and general . 
Laudonniere gave the women and immediate companions of the Paracoussi to understand that his purpose was not to do his captive any injury . 
She followed him to the river banks , clinging to him to the last , and stood there ringing her hands and filling the air with her shrieks , while the people of Laudonniere lifted him into the bark , and pushed out to the middle of the river . 
More than five hundred of them showed themselves on the banks of the river , entreating of Laudonniere to draw nigh that they might behold their prince . 
But Laudonniere was properly suspicious , and soon discovered , that , while five hundred archers showed themselves to him as suppliants , the shores were lined with thrice five hundred in snug ambush , lying close for the signal of attack . 
Laudonniere had put his price upon the head of his captive , and would ` bate nothing of his ransom . 
They believed that Laudonniere only aimed to draw from them their stores , and then destroy their sovereign . 
Eagerly and earnestly did they plead with Laudonniere either to put him to death , or to deliver him to their tender mercies . 
Among those who came to see and triumph over his ancient enemy , and , if possible , to get him into his power , was the Paracoussi Satouriova , one of Laudonniere 's first acquaintances , whose power , perhaps , along the territories of May River , was only next to that of Utina . 
He , as well as the rest of the chiefs , brought bribes of maize and beans , withheld before , in order to persuade Laudonniere to yield to their desires . 
Whether governed by policy or indifference , his people betrayed but little sympathy in his condition ; and though keeping him still in close custody , treating him with kindness the while , Laudonniere was compelled to seek elsewhere for provisions . 
While on this expedition , it occurred to Laudonniere to revenge upon the lord of Edelano , the cruel murder of his soldier , Peter Gambier , whose story has been given in previous pages . 
Returning to Enecaque , Laudonniere swept its fields of all their grain , with which he hastened back to his starving people at La Caroline . 
He said to Laudonniere -- `` Of what avail is it to you or to me , that you hold me here a captive ? 
Laudonniere consulted with his chief men . 
The two barks were accordingly fitted out , and , with a select detachment , Laudonniere proceeded with his captive to a place called Patica , some eight or nine leagues distant from the village of Utina . 
Laudonniere was compelled finally to return with his prisoner to La Caroline , as hungry as ever , and with no hopes of the future . 
But Laudonniere manfully interposed himself , surrounded by his best men , between their rage and his victim . 
Their murmurs drove Laudonniere forth once more . 
They assembled to meet him on the banks of a little river , which emptied into the main stream , and to which Laudonniere had penetrated in his vessels . 
The vigilant eye of Alphonse D'Erlach soon detected the ambush ; and at length , finding Laudonniere preparing to leave them , still keeping their king a captive , the savages resumed their negotiations with more activity , and withdrew their archers from the neighborhood . 
The drain for the supply of the hungry mouths at La Caroline , seemed to them perpetual , and Laudonniere aimed now not only to meet the wants of the present , but to store ships and fort against future necessities . 
They over-reached Laudonniere at last . 
They persuaded him that the presence of the king , among his people , was necessary to compel each man to bring in his subsidy ; -- that they must see him , in his former abodes , freed entirely from bonds , before they would recognize his authority ; -- that they feared , when they should have brought their grain , that the French would still retain their captive ; -- and , in short , insisted so much upon the freedom of Utina , as the sine quâ non , that the doubts of Laudonniere were overcome . 
TheParacoussi , on parting with Laudonniere , renewed his assurances of good will , and repeated the promises which had been given to ensure his deliverance from captivity . 
Laudonniere left his lieutenants , Ottigny and D'Erlach , with the two hostages , in one of the barks , to receive the provisions which Utina was to furnish , while he himself returned to La Caroline . 
As Laudonniere writes -- `` All the while they had their eye and foot so quicke and readie , that as soone as ever they saw the harquebuse raised to the cheeke , so soon were they on the ground , and eftsoone to answer with their bowes , and to flie their way , if by chance they perceived that we were about to take them . '' 
Thedisasters which befel his detachment , brought Laudonniere to his knees . 
When Laudonniere reviewed his harrassed soldiers on their return from this expedition , `` all the mill that he found among his company came but to two men 's burdens . '' 
Laudonniere was compelled to look elsewhere for the resources which should keep his company from want . 
These , they now concluded , must be covered with golden grain , in the season of harvest , and thither , accordingly , Laudonniere dispatched his boats . 
The dusky damsels , alike sweet and artless , brought back to our poor adventurers precious recollections of youthful fancies along the banks of the Garonne and the Loire , and it is not improbable , that , under the excitement of new emotions , had Laudonniere proposed to transfer La Caroline to the Satilla , or Somme , instead of May River , they might have been ready to waive , for a season at least , their impatient desire to return to France . 
He had warned Laudonniere against the policy he pursued , had foreseen all the evils resulting from his unwise counsels , and there was that in his bosom which urged the glorious results to France , of a vigorous and just administration of a settlement in the western hemisphere , in which he was to participate , with his energy and forethought , without having these perpetually baffled by the imbecility and folly of an incapable superior . 
Nothing but the stern decree of authority could have silenced the discontents ; and the authority lay neither in the will nor in the numbers under the control of Laudonniere . 
With this spirit prevailing among his garrison , Laudonniere was compelled to abandon the idea , altogether , of building the ship ; and to address all his energies to the repair , for the desired purpose , of the old brigantine , which had been brought back to La Caroline , by the returning pirates . 
The palisade which conducted from the fort to the river was torn down also by the soldiery , for the same purpose , in spite of the objections of Laudonniere . 
`` In the meanwhile , '' says Laudonniere -- seeking to excuse his own unwise management and feeble policy -- `` In the meanwhile , there was none of us to whome it was not an extreme griefe to leave a country wherein wee had endured so greate travailes and necessities , to discover that which wee must forsake through our owne countrymen 's default . 
It was while distressing himself with these cogitations that Laudonniere , on the 3d of August , 1565 , took a walk , `` as was his custom of an afternoon , '' to the top of a little eminence , in the neighborhood of the fort , which afforded a distant prospect of the sea . 
A prudent fear of the Spaniards made Laudonniere get his soldiers in readiness ; while Captain La Vasseur , with a select party , advanced to the river side to meet the visitors . 
Laudonniere permitted him to do so . 
But Laudonniere was still jealous of the Englishman , and was apprehensive that , while he carried off the one colony , he would instantly plant another in its place . 
He declined the generous offer , but bargained with him for one of his vessels , for which Laudonniere chiefly paid by the furniture of the fortress , -- the cannon , & c. , -- viz. : `` two bastards , two mynions , one thousand of iron -LRB- balls -RRB- , and one thousand -LRB- pounds -RRB- of powder . '' 
Moved with pity at the wretched condition of the Frenchmen , the generous Englishman offered supplies for which he accepted Laudonniere 's bills . 
`` He did more than this , '' says Laudonniere . 
It affords a good commentary upon the bad management of Laudonniere , and the worthless character of his followers ; the sturdy Englishmen seeing , at a glance , where all the evils of the colony lay . 
He mentions one particular , which we do not gather from Laudonniere , showing the sagacity of the Floridian warriors . 
At the close of this war , according to our Englishmen , Laudonniere had not forty soldiers left unhurt . 
Laudonniere tells Hawkins some curious snake stories , which could not well be improved upon , even in the `` Hunter 's Camp , '' on a `` Lying Saturday . '' 
Laudonniere had evidently some appreciation of the marvellous ; but only fourfeet to threeheads was a monstrous disproportion . 
He left the Huguenots , on the 28th July , 1565 , making all preparations to follow in his wake ; and on the fifteenth of August Laudonniere was prepared to depart also . 
The reasons for their mysterious deportment , as subsequently given , arose from certain false reports which had reached France , of the conduct of Laudonniere . 
Poor Laudonniere ! 
That Laudonniere should become a prince there , was calculated to exaggerate the greatness of the principality ; and the jealousy of the French monarch , in all probability , for the first time , awakened his sympathy for the settlement . 
The same accounts which had borne the tidings of Laudonniere 's ambition , may have exaggerated the resources and discoveries of the country ; and possibly some specimens of gold -- the mass of two pounds described by Hawkins -- had dazzled the eyes and excited the avarice of court and people . 
Enough that Laudonniere was to be sent home for trial , and that Ribault was to succeed him in the government . 
When , at length , he drew nigh to La Caroline , so suspiciously did he approach , that he drew upon him the fire of Laudonniere 's men , and , but for the distance , and the seasonable outcry which was made by his followers , announcing who they were , a conflict might have ensued between the parties . 
To the great relief of Ribault , Laudonniere received him with submission . 
Laudonniere soon succeeded in convincing his successor that he had been greatly slandered -- that he was entirely innocent of royalty , and almost of state , of any kind -- that , however unfortunate he may have been -- however incompetent to the duties he had undertaken , he was certainly not guilty of the extreme follies , the presumption , or the cruelty , which constituted the several points in the indictment urged against him . 
But this Laudonniere declined to do , resolving to return to France ; -- a resolution which , as we shall see hereafter , was only delayed too long , -- to the further increase of the misfortunes of our captain . 
Ribault was not more inaccessible to this attractive showing than Laudonniere had been ; but before he could project the desired enterprise , in search of the mountains which held such glorious possessions , new events were in progress , involving such dangers as superseded the hopes of gain among the adventurers , by necessities which made them doubtful of their safety The Spaniards , of whom they had long been apprehensive , were at length discovered upon the coast . 
They assembled in the chamber of Laudonniere , that person being sick . 
But Laudonniere had his argument also , and it was not without its significance . 
It was very evident that he did not regard Laudonniere as the best of advisers in the work of war . 
Not satisfied with this force , he lessened the strength of the garrison by taking a detachment of its best men , leaving few to keep the post but the invalids , who , like Laudonniere , were suffering , or but just recovering , from the diseases of the climate in midsummer . 
Laudonniere expostulated , but in vain , against this appropriation of his garrison . 
On the eighth of September , Ribault left the roadstead in pursuit of the Spaniards , and Laudonniere never beheld him again . 
The storms prevailed for several days , at the end of which time , apprehending the worst , Laudonniere mustered his command , and proceeded to put the fortress in the best possible condition of defence . 
Thus , then , with provisions short , with Laudonniere sick , and otherwise incompetent , -- with the men equally few and feeble , improvident hitherto , and now spiritless , -- the labors of defence and preparation at La Caroline went forward slowly ; and its watch was maintained with very doubtful vigilance . 
Alarmed , at first , by the condition in which he had been left , Laudonniere , as has been stated , proceeded with the showof diligence , rather than its actual working , to repair the fortress , and put himself in order for defence . 
He hath fled from La Caroline , from the cruelties of Laudonniere , the heretic , and will report what he knows , touching the condition of the Lutheran fortress and the people thereof . '' 
I was beaten by Laudonniere , and I fled from him , taking off one of his barques . 
Laudonniere will hang you , if he gets you into his power . '' 
We have seen , in a previous chapter , with what doubtful vigilance the lieutenants of Laudonniere performed their duties . 
Still he cried aloud , even as he fled , and Laudonniere started from his slumbers only to hear the startling cry -- `` To arms ! 
Melendez with his troop had reached the corps de gardequite as soon as Laudonniere . 
The magazines were already in their hands , and a desperate effort of Laudonniere 's artillerists to recover them , was followed only by their own destruction . 
Hither Laudonniere hurried , crying aloud to his men in the language of encouragement , and doing his utmost , by the most headlong valor , to repair the mischiefs of his feeble rule and most unhappy remissness of authority . 
Verily , to those who saw how well he carried himself in this the moment of his worst despair , the past errors of the unhappy Laudonniere had been forgiven if not forgotten . 
At length the party led by Melendez confronted Laudonniere . 
That is the captain of the heretics -- that is Laudonniere ! '' 
cried Laudonniere . 
But Laudonniere shrank from the conflict , for Melendez was followed by his troop ; and , saving one man , a stout soldier named Bartholomew , who fought manfully with a heavy partizan , he stood utterly alone and unsupported . 
The fierce bigot Pedro Melendez himself -- a stalwart warrior , clad in heavy black armor of woven mail , with a great white cross upon his breast -- made the most desperate efforts to bring Laudonniere to the last passage at arms ; and for a time the Frenchman , though quite too light and enfeebled by sickness for the contest with such a champion , was eager to indulge him . 
At that moment Laudonniere had gladly redeemed by a glorious death , at the hands of the fierce Asturian , the errors and the failures of his life . 
Laudonniere yielded in this manner only foot by foot , striking at the foe and at his own runagates alike , and receiving upon his shield , with the dexterity of an accomplished cavalier , the assault of a score of pikes which pressed beyond the heavy blade of Melendez . 
was the cry , and the crowd by which Laudonniere had hitherto been borne unwillingly along , now melted away on every hand , leaving him again almost alone in the presence of the Spaniard . 
He hurried along his unhappy and now reckless captain , taking his way into the yard of Laudonniere 's lodging . 
cried Laudonniere , long and grateful recollections of a tried fidelity , to which he had not always done justice , extorting from him a groan ; `` Ah ! 
The unhappy Laudonniere found himself temporarily safe in the forests ; but if remote from present danger , they were not so far from the fortress as to be insensible to the work of death and horror which was in progress there , the evidence of which came to their ears in the shrieks of women for mercy , and the groans and cries of tortured men . 
Laudonniere shut his ears , and with his companion plunged deeper into the forests . 
A hasty council was convened among the party , and the advice of Laudonniere -- he could command no longer -- was , that they should bury themselves among the reeds and within the marshes which lay along the river , out of sight , until they could make their small vessels , by which the mouth of the river was still guarded , aware of their situation . 
They persevered in this purpose , leaving Laudonniere and a few others in the marshes . 
The boats of the vessels were immediately pushed up the stream , and succeeded in picking up the swimmers , and , finally , when Laudonniere and his faithful companions were both about to sink , in extricating them from their marshy place of refuge . 
These , with Laudonniere , subsequently made their way , after many disasters , perils of the sea and land , a detention in England , where they were again indebted to the humanity of the English for succor and sympathy . 
It is perhaps fortunate that no greater number had been left , since , in all probability , the same want of watch and caution by which the fortress had been lost , would have equally been shown , with any numbers , under such an easy commandant as Laudonniere , and in the particular circumstances which had taken place . 
We have seen that Laudonniere succeeded in rescuing some twenty persons . 
Melendez replied -- `` Señor , I have made myself the master of your fort . 
`` Señor , it can not be . 
`` Monsieur , '' said he to Laudonniere , `` I will not believe that you design us evil . 
The soldier to whom Ribault had been confided , when they had reached the spot strewn thickly with the corses of his murdered people , said to him -- `` Señor , you are the general of the French ? '' 
`` Go not thou with these people , my brother , '' said Alphonse D'Erlach , to that elder brother whom we have seen , with himself , a trusted lieutenant of Laudonniere . 
Besides , several of their followers , were of the first colonies of Ribault , and had accompanied Laudonniere , Ottigny , and both the Erlachs on various expeditions among the Indians . 
One Le Caille , a sergeant , who was greatly endowed , in his own regards , as a leader among men , and who had enjoyed some experience in Indian adventure under Laudonniere , set himself in direct opposition to the two brothers . 
There were many gentlemen , volunteers , in the expedition ; and De Gourgues had taken the precaution to secure the services of one who had been a trumpeter under Laudonniere , and had made his escape with that commander . 
Provisions for a year were laid in ; and every preparation having been made , and every precaution taken , as well with the view to secrecy , as to the prosecution of the object , the squadron sailed for Bordeaux , on the second day of August , 1567 , just two years after the flight of Laudonniere from Florida . 
The red-men had by this time fully experienced the tender mercies of their brutal and bigoted neighbors ; and had learned to contrast them unfavorably with what they remembered of the Frenchmen under Ribault and Laudonniere . 
He employed for this purpose his trumpeter , who had served under Laudonniere , and was well known to the king , Satouriova , whose province lay along the waters of the Tacatacourou , and with whose tribe it was the good fortune of our Frenchmen to encounter . 
`` Such a chief was not known to us , '' said he , `` in the time of Laudonniere . '' 
