Among all the students of Malden , Graham Mildmay was the only one who maintained the position of a constant visitor at the home of Annie Hastings . 
He was a `` Southern student , '' known to be the heir of a large estate , possessed a tall and manly personal appearance , pleasing manners , and what is not uncommon to youth from his section of country , but yet not characteristic , was of rather a serious temperament . 
It might be supposed that the constant visits of a generous hearted and noble looking young stranger , would have created a sentiment in Annie 's heart that would soon ripen into love ; but Graham Mildmay was so courteous , so deferential in manner , that the fact of his being the most distinguished student of his college , gratified Annie 's pride , called into action her intellectual faculties , but excited no deeper emotions . 
But there was a difference of sentiment existing between Mildmay and herself , that had been the subject of a thousand conversations , and yet had never been reconciled , and this disagreement involved a high principle , that was in Annie 's feelings only to be overcome by an intensity of love , still foreign to her heart . 
Mildmay was cordially accepted among the young men of the college from his section of the Union , as `` one of their own set , '' yet he never entered heartily into their dissipations , or became seriously involved in any way , with their reckless amusements . 
He was popular with all who knew him for his manliness , and seemed to happily combine industrious habits with the cultivated manners and easy bearing , so peculiar to the youth of the South . 
There was a sense of innate worth , and pecuniary ability about Mildmay , that so frequently distinguishes the highly educated planter from the mere business man , which , joined with his acknowledged moral worth , made him a universal favorite . 
With two or three of his intimate friends , Mildmay sauntered down the principal street of Malden ; he was in fine spirits , for he had carried off the `` honors of his class , '' and as `` valedictorian , '' was the hero of the hour . 
No one felt envious that he wore the scholastic crown . 
Through four long years of study he had been uniformly at the head of his classes , had never maliciously broken a college rule , had originated no difficulty with his fellow students , had always been generous to prodigality ; and all the while , seemingly , the least ambitious student in the institution . 
`` I see , '' said Singleton Minor , looking archly at Mildmay , `` that you have brought us on a pilgrimage to your own shrine , and will give us a chance at a respectful distance , to worship my lady of a thousand graces . '' 
`` Graham wishes us to see how pretty northern sentiments can be done up in angelic forms . 
`` I think , '' said Mildmay , as the party passed on , `` that you are all quite merry with your tongues , but I see that you are also very envious in your hearts , as you have cause to be . '' 
`` And , besides , we might have expected this , '' said Singleton Minor ; `` for you remember , boys , how very eloquent Mildmay got , in the Society rooms , about the Goths coming down upon the fair fields of Italy ! 
said Mildmay finally , with some feeling ; `` your jests have the merit of wit , and perhaps of compliment ; yet they trench somewhat on personal ground , because suggested by , though not necessarily alluding to , a particular lady . 
I am sorry , however , to perceive , '' he continued , `` that in spite of your long residence here , you still make mental distinctions between the people of this great republic . 
`` Patriotism is not wholly dead , in spite of what disappointed politicians say , '' said Marigny , looking with real admiration at Mildmay ; `` but it is after all , '' he continued , `` the beautiful and good girls of this same sterile New England , who make us feel our homes are the same , whether North or South , and I say , may Heaven bless them all ! '' 
`` Treason is rife , -- the South is in danger , -- the Amazons of the North conquer , -- they rush upon our defenceless cohorts , and capture husbands with a precision that finds but a dim parallel in the red man lariating the wild horse on the prairie , '' returned Calhoun , at the same time taking the arm of Minor , and gracefully bowing , he turned into an obscure street , leaving Marigny and Mildmay together . 
Mildmay was annoyed ; there was something in the half-concealed sneers of the reckless Calhoun , that caused a dark cloud to pass over his face : his companion noticed it , and with some concern inquired , `` Has any thing happened to offend you ? '' 
`` Nothing , '' said Mildmay , `` that is personal to myself ; yet , nevertheless , I feel the deepest chagrin and mortification that Calhoun , gifted as he is , represents so many of our Southern youth ; possessed of abilities beyond the ordinary standard of young men , he has passed through his college course without finding it necessary to ever seriously arouse from his natural indolence . 
Reynolds Calhoun and Graham Mildmay were evidently not only the popular orators with the students , but with the people . 
It had been whispered about , that both these young men had , under different names , travelled over almost the very same ground , and a deep anxiety was manifested , to hear what was presumed would be the bold and brilliant philippic of Calhoun , and the calm and close reasoning of the deep , but more reflective Mildmay ; it may be judged therefore , what was the disappointment of all , when the President announced that , `` Reynolds Calhoun was excused . '' 
`` As I feared , '' whispered Mildmay to Adolph Marigny ; `` what a shame -- the noblest sentiments , the most profound statesmanship , and the happiest diction , characterized his theme . 
The degrees were conferred , the pleasant excitement ceased , and Graham Mildmay stood before the audience . 
As valedictorian , he had stamped upon himself , without creating envy or rivals , the claim of superior scholarship over all the members of his class -- this was no small honor -- but he was , as we have already hinted , a favorite with the people of the town , his early history was known , and it was more than usually interesting . 
From circumstances peculiar to himself , he had mingled more in society than any of the other students , and the fact that he was so soon by separation , to be almost entirely lost to his early friends , gave unusual interest to his appearance . 
As the tall form of Mildmay rose before her , she felt confounded with herself , upon perceiving that her face burned and her heart audibly beat . 
Mildmay , in his address , rapidly and clearly surveyed what he conceived to be the popular prejudices of the people of the North against the South , and her peculiar institutions . 
He showed how slavery had been entailed upon the States by no choice of those whom Providence had selected to bear its responsibilities , and expatiated upon its patriarchal , and to the dependent , protective character . 
Upon the breaking up of the vast assembly , Mildmay was surrounded by innumerable well wishers , who shook him by the hand , congratulated him upon his address , and expressed admiration of his personal and intellectual qualities . 
For all these attentions he returned his thanks , with a manner so charming and so sincere , that he captivated all , as the most promising student that ever left the protection of the old college ; and while the young and enthusiastic saw the future hero in Mildmay , the old and reflective marked out for him a life of exalted usefulness , that was one day , by its perfection , to make his name familiar with the great and important interests of the world . 
`` You promised , '' said one of the visitors to Dr. Elliott , `` that you would give us some reminiscences of young Mildmay , who has created such a sensation in his favor , as the orator of the day ; let us know something , Doctor , of his personal history . '' 
`` Nothing she said would have enabled her to make the sacrifice of being parted from him , although fully convinced of its propriety , but the fact , that it was the often expressed injunction of Graham 's father , that he should at a suitable age be placed in a school at the North , and there remain until his education was complete . 
After repeated attempts to take formal leave , she was finally obliged to steal away while he was asleep , and then hurried from Malden for fear that her heart would compel her to return . 
From that time I felt an additional interest in the success of Graham Mildmay . 
`` Upon the very day on which he was examined and declared to be well prepared to enter the freshman class of the college , I was by the partiality of my friends elected to the honored office of its President , so that Graham still continued a member of my family , even up to the present time ; but to-day , '' said the Doctor , his voice husky with emotion , `` he has , with his college honors , taken the place of a man in the wide world , and I lose one of the best of pupils , -- and I will add , one of the most esteemed friends it has ever been my fortune to know . 
`` As a teacher , and I may say , parent of Graham , I have endeavored to conscientiously perform every promise made to his excellent mother , and I think he now presents to the world , a youth , of whom any fond father or doting mother might be proud . '' 
This exhibition of pardonable pride in the Doctor , as he reflected upon the exercises of the day , and recalled the triumph of his protégé , was sympathized in by all of his auditors , and the conversation took a general character , the burden of which was , Graham 's future , which was prophesied would be a brilliant and useful career . 
While the good Dr. Elliott was dwelling upon the history of his much-loved pupil , Mildmay was sitting in the imposing parlor of the Hastings House . 
`` Yes , Miss Hastings , '' said Mildmay , a strange sensation of bewilderment coming over his mind . 
`` Not at all , '' returned Mildmay , as the two seated themselves in the parlor , his voice softened almost to a whisper , `` but , Miss Hastings -- Annie , I mean , are you aware , that I leave Malden to-morrow , and do you think that such a separation can be made without any deep emotion on my part ? '' 
`` I shall , as you say , feel deep regret at parting with Dr. Elliott , although I had not particularly recurred before to the fact , '' returned Mildmay , a little surprised himself at the reflection . 
`` Perhaps I am , '' replied Mildmay ; `` but Annie , '' he continued , `` with the necessity of leaving Malden , I have most thought of leaving you . 
`` You have certainly changed very much since yesterday , Graham , '' said Annie , maintaining her presence of mind , and controlling her feelings , `` for to my knowledge , '' she continued , `` you have been longing to get free from the summons of the college bell -- those hateful professors -- and , if your compliments at our tea table are not all pretence , still more hateful commons . '' 
`` True , '' answered Graham , `` such should be my rejoicing , but it is not so ; my fellow-students , when they abandon their alma mater , have warmer mothers to greet them , and a thousand long-neglected home associations to revive , but I have neither one nor the other . 
`` Do not say colder hearts , Annie , '' said Mildmay , seizing her unresisting hand , `` say not even indifferent ones , for I have long indulged a hope that I may have awakened an interest in your affections , that might in time change from passing interest into love . '' 
`` Graham , '' said Annie , her eyes swimming in confusion , `` could I have been spared this acknowledgment on your part , it would have saved me a great deal of pain , but how much more I should have felt , had you left Malden without this acknowledgment of esteem , I dare not say . '' 
`` Say not esteem , Annie , '' returned Mildmay , `` say nothing if you can find no more genial word ; rather let your silence give me the hope your tongue would deny . '' 
`` Graham , '' said Annie , the tears struggling in her eyes , `` what hold in the future can our plain New England home retain upon one who has so wide a field of active life before him . 
I dare not indulge the thought , Graham , that you will not illustrate the proverbial fickleness of college friendships . '' 
`` Then , '' said Graham , with an energy that startled Annie almost with alarm , `` then you are not prepared to do justice to the truest heart that ever beat with love ! 
At this frank declaration , not altogether unexpected , from the vague communings of Annie 's inmost thoughts , she withdrew her hand from Graham , and bent her eyes for a moment on the ground , then recovering herself , she said : `` You may ascribe my conduct , Graham , to coldness , rather than education , but you know I have been raised to cultivate a self-sacrificing spirit . 
I dare not be too enthusiastic , dare not hope too much ; therefore , Graham , speak only of friendship , not of love . '' 
`` I will do all that you please , '' said Graham , his face expressing joy ; `` only tell me , '' he continued , `` that at some future time you will give me hope . '' 
`` Two years hence , '' said Annie , placing her hand in Graham 's , `` you will find me with a heart as free as now , and still Annie Hastings . 
If at the end of that time your college preferences are confirmed , in spite of your experience in the world , then Graham , and not till then , offer me your heart . '' 
said Graham , staring into her pure face as if he would see her very soul . 
`` You may write , Graham , as we have in times past talked ; we shall all be glad to hear from you , and I am sure Dr Elliott will let you often hear from your friends in Malden . '' 
`` Enough , enough , '' said Graham , passionately , pressing Annie 's still imprisoned hand to his heart , and imprinting an unresisted kiss upon her forehead . 
`` Enough , Annie , '' he again repeated . 
`` And now , '' he continued , with animation , `` the two long years of my probation shall be laboriously , but , because of your existence , hopefully spent . 
said Annie , playfully interrupting him , `` let us talk of other things . '' 
Mildmay , from the time that his mother died , had , each succeeding spring , passed two or three weeks on his plantation , and in that way was somewhat acquainted with the duties connected with his future career . 
His business had been , in his long absence at the North , all things considered , carefully attended to ; and upon his arrival at home , after a due celebration by the negroes , of `` Master 's return , '' Mildmay was soon involved in the serious duties of life , and the novelty of his situation softened any severe regrets he felt for the scenes he had left at Malden . '' 
Graham once at home , he occupied most of his leisure time in writing letters to his old master , in which he gave interesting details of his new pursuits , and amusing descriptions of the incidents of plantation life . 
These letters were received by the worthy Dr. Elliott , and carefully perused , and then quietly handed over to some member of the `` Hastings family , '' with the remark , `` that , perhaps , something from our young friend , Mildmay , would not be uninteresting . '' 
He had been made Mildmay 's confidant in all that related to Annie Hastings , and cordially approving of the proposed union , without interfering , or in any way encouraging the intermediate steps , he had promised to act as we have seen , as the medium of communication , but not until fully authorized so to do , by the family of the `` old Hastings House . '' 
Whatever were Annie 's feelings , no one but herself knew ; it was noticeable among the members of her household , that upon receiving the Doctor 's letters from Mildmay , she spent a longer time than usual in her room , and that those same epistles were never seen or heard of , after being once given into her possession . 
Month after month quickly passed away , as Graham each day found new matters to occupy his attention . 
His confidential and trusty business man , Mr. Fenwick , who had so well managed the estate during Graham 's minority , was anxious now to resign his trust into Graham 's hands , preparatory to commencing business upon his own account . 
Graham also found , that the lands he occupied , as well as those about him , had been worn out by long cultivation , and that he was really living in a deserted country . 
Graham , as will be seen , had no particular attachment to the `` home place , '' and he looked forward with romantic interest to the founding of one himself , one worthy , as he thought , of Annie ; a home in a new and vigorous State , -- where he could rise with its fortunes , and identify his name with its prosperity . 
With this noble ambition , and accompanied by Mr. Fenwick , and fortified with letters from the best men of his native State , in the course of a few days , Mildmay was sailing down the river Mississippi on his way to New Orleans . 
The solemn grandeur of the mighty Father of Waters made a deep impression upon him , but still more was he affected as he witnessed the evidences of progress , the rapid strides of civilization . 
His soul fairly expanded as he contemplated the developments of the future , and in the enthusiasm of the moment he thanked God , that he had been born to witness and take a part in the scenes around him . 
Arriving at his place of destination in the month of December , he could hardly realize the fact , that the same season of year , which at Malden bound every thing in ice and snow , in Louisiana decked every thing in the most lovely vegetation , and breathed the balmy airs , of a genial spring . 
For a few days Mildmay abandoned himself to the novelties presented by the anomalous character of the southern metropolis . 
His extensive reading prepared him to appreciate the strange architecture he met in the older parts of the city , and his curiosity was excited and gratified by the Babel-like confusion that prevailed among the tongues and the people comprising the motley population . 
Upon the broad and no-where-else to be seen `` levee , '' he beheld in amazement , the accumulating agricultural wealth of the great valley of a mighty continent . 
He saw piled up before him for miles , the sugar , the cotton , the corn , and the tobacco , -- treasures taken from the fields , yet , in vying abundance , there reposed side by side , vast piles of mineral wealth , of lead , of iron , of copper , dug from the embowelled earth . 
Assembled in the magnificent halls of his sumptuous hotel , he found , constantly before his eye , representatives of all nations , each endeavoring to best display his superiority ; but it was among the Southerners , who seemed to carry their hearts in their hand , and who were , as the representatives of the great planting interests , identified with himself , that he found the marked men of the multitude -- the cordially-acknowledged princes of the crowd . 
To this latter class Mildmay , who resembled them in person , was insensibly drawn by a thousand chords of sympathy , that had heretofore slumbered in his breast . 
He heard them speak of their crops , of their negroes , of their plantations ; he saw their lavish expenditure of money ; witnessed the respect they commanded , from all who conversed with them , and there rose in his bosom a consciousness of self-importance , which gave a new dignity to his carriage , and a wider range to his thoughts . 
It soon became known among those interested , what Mildmay 's business was , and offers of land came pouring in upon him , from a hundred quarters . 
Whole principalities were offered him in Texas , at nominal rates . 
Half opened plantations high up some still unfamiliar river , upon any terms he might choose to offer , but as the `` location '' came nearer New Orleans , the prices increased , until at last they reached enormous sums . 
To Fenwick , the Major was particularly attentive ; though he did not seem indifferent , still he made no approach to speak with Mildmay , and it was not until Fenwick had dwelt in eloquent terms upon the value of the acquaintance , that Mildmay permitted himself to be introduced . 
Major Dixon had a dashing off-hand manner , talked a great deal of good sense , but occasionally shocked Mildmay 's sensibilities by a remark , which showed either a want of knowledge of the true use of words , or else an exceedingly callous heart . 
Upon the subject of purchasing a plantation Major Dixon afforded much real information , for Mildmay found that his opinions were verified by gentlemen , to whom he had letters of credit and introduction , and there soon sprung up quite an exchange of time and conversation between Mildmay and the affable , knowing , and always apparently at leisure , Major Dixon . 
That the acquaintance was respectable Mildmay did not doubt , for he found that gentlemen , who had been pointed out to him by the communicative clerk of the hotel , as some of the wealthiest planters of the State , frequently were with Dixon in some obscure corner engaged in long and apparently confidential conversations . 
Mildmay determined to solve the mystery , and commissioned Fenwick to learn who the attentive Major Dixon was . 
Each day that Mildmay spent in New Orleans , he enlarged his circle of acquaintances , and finally accepted one or two invitations to visit wealthy planters living on `` the coast . '' 
The more he saw of the country and the people the more he was delighted ; and he returned to his hotel from his suburban trips , inspired with the determination to select a place at the earliest practicable moment , hasten home , and complete the laborious business of moving the accessories of a large plantation . 
Among `` the bargains '' offered him , was one situated some two hundred miles or more above New Orleans , not directly upon the river , but presenting a remarkably fine body of land , on one of the many tributaries emptying into the Mississippi . 
To this place Mildmay was particularly attracted , from the fact , that it was placed for sale in the hands of an agent of the most responsible character , had already built upon it a fine mansion , and an abundance of negro cabins ; in fact required nothing , as the advertisement asserted , but a `` respectable force '' to combine all the requirements of a `` first class place . '' 
Major Dixon knew all about the piece of land alluded to , and gave Mildmay a minute , and , as it afterwards proved , correct description of it . 
He stated that it was originally opened by a wealthy man from South Carolina , who had ideas of style rather beyond his means , and became so involved by his many improvements , that he at last abandoned the property in disgust , and threw it upon the hands of those who had been most liberal in loaning him money . 
Mildmay and his companion Fenwick left New Orleans , and with an agent of the owners of the `` Heritage Place , '' they took a small steamer , and for more than a day progressed up the Mississippi River . 
Sometime in the night , while Mildmay was asleep , the boat shot into `` a bayou , '' and in professional parlance `` laid up , '' until the following morning , and soon after Mildmay made his appearance , it commenced moving between narrowing shores , along which could occasionally be seen improved plantations , and the innumerable laborers at their daily work . 
Towards noon the little steamer , that went but three or four miles an hour , ran its bows into the landing at `` Heritage Place , '' and leaving Mildmay and his friends , passed on its way , with the understanding , that in the course of the afternoon it would pick them up as it returned back to New Orleans . 
Fenwick , by the assistance of the agent , had borrowed a couple of horses from a neighboring plantation , and he and Mildmay rode over the `` opened land . '' 
Fenwick showed how little work it would be to restore things to tolerable order , and how in a year or so , Mildmay could have a place , that would outvie any thing he had ever dreamt of in his native State . 
Meanwhile , an overseer from an adjoining plantation had come over to see what was going on ; and meeting the agent , and learning the particulars , he went in pursuit of Mildmay , and offered his services , and volunteered any information regarding the value of the property . 
Mildmay listened , and took down the names of the different persons who would naturally be his neighbors ; made every possible inquiry of the facilities of society , -- not for himself , for he was in this connection thinking of another , and rode back to the lonely-looking mansion . 
Here was `` the agent , '' a sort of madcap clerk of New Orleans , who combined a strange mixture of business tact and knowledge of the world , and particularly of the world in the interior of Louisiana , -- with his trunk opened , a tablecloth spread upon the ground , and a most substantial dinner set out , of boiled ham , chicken , bread , sardines , patès , and excellent claret . 
Tumblers and plates he had borrowed from the clerk of the steamer ; and all the party , after Fenwick and Mildmay 's astonishment had been expressed at their agent 's foresight , sat down on the ground , and made a hearty meal , and with a better appetite , as Mildmay said , `` than he had ever had before in his life . '' 
From Mr. Moreton , Mildmay learned additional particulars relative to his proposed purchase , but declined to accept at that time , the invitation to visit , whereupon Mr. Moreton hitched his horse by the bridle to a `` swinging limb , '' and with Mildmay sat down on the trunk of a fallen tree , declaring that he would remain until the steamer came along . 
In the conversation that ensued , Mildmay determined in his own mind to make the purchase of the plantation . 
Major Dixon , who showed so much ability and disposition to serve Mildmay and his friend Fenwick , was to superficial observers a man of leisure , and of the class termed gentlemen . 
Persons , however , who studied faces with success , would have discovered something rather equivocal about his eyes , for by a curious conformation of the brow , they were ordinarily almost hidden from sight ; but let Dixon look a person full in the face , and there were seen shots of fiery red , mingled with the pure blue , which suggested that they could burn as if filled with internal fire . 
People who had known Dixon for years , if asked to draw his character , would probably never have agreed upon any leading trait ; for he possessed the ability in a remarkable degree of not only being all things to all men for his own purposes , but he could be the exact thing to the person he was at the moment with ; and if Mildmay and Fenwick had written down their impressions of this man , they would have both drawn characters as suggested by their individual impressions , and that were most agreeable to their positions as strangers in the `` Crescent City . '' 
When Dixon saw Mildmay and Fenwick , he at once understood their relation and purposes , and with his usual promptness he did all he could to assist them in their contemplated purchase , from the ulterior object of their probable demand upon him for slaves . 
A day or two after Dixon met Mildmay , he went to his `` depot , '' as he termed it , and sitting down in the little office inside of the door , he took a scrap of paper from a plethoric-looking purse , and laying it on the wooden table before him , he seemed absorbed in a profound study . 
`` Graham Mildmay , '' said he , reading from the paper , `` where have I met with that name before ? '' 
`` Well , '' returned Dixon , with a calm and agreeable voice , `` go out in the hall , my dear , and to-night I will give you such a dressing , that afterwards , if I sell you to a sausage-maker you will cry to be cut up into mince meat before you will come back again on my hands ; '' and thus delivering himself , Dixon waved the girl to retire , and biting off a huge piece of tobacco , he took up the before alluded to bit of paper , and soliloquized , -- `` Where have I met with the name of Graham Mildmay ? '' 
With this intimate connection with Dixon , it is easy to see that he at once became interested in Mildmay . 
said Ben , referring to Mildmay , and appearing anxious to get the cue . 
Ben turned over the pages carefully , and at Dixon 's suggestion , endeavored to find , assorted with the runaways mentioned , the name of Mildmay . 
Ben , who was really fatigued , readily obeyed , and turning to Dixon , he said : `` So , you think Charles Broadnax , esquire , belongs to the young man Mildmay , at the hotel ? '' 
As Dixon had anticipated when he left his `` pen , '' he found Mildmay in the rotunda of the hotel , quietly smoking a cigar , and walking up and saluting him , as was his custom when talking to planters , he took a seat at a respectful distance , and commenced conversation . 
Dixon artfully approached his object , and led the unsuspecting Mildmay on from one point to another so ingeniously , that he unfolded his business of slave-dealer without exciting in his hearer any particular emotion . 
This once accomplished , the advantages of the purchase of `` Heritage Place '' were discussed , and Mildmay finally learned with surprise , that Dixon himself had a plantation in the neighborhood , and that he , Dixon , contemplated in another year , `` that he might possibly give up any active participation in ` his negro-trading business , ' and settle down quietly on his farm . '' 
From Dixon , Mildmay learned the best way of getting his slaves on to Louisiana ; it was decided that he should bring them on to Washington , in the District of Columbia , and there keep them until a vessel sailed directly to New Orleans , from which point , they could without difficulty reach their final place of destination . 
`` A negro certainly thrives best in a warm climate , '' said Mildmay ; evidently to Dixon 's annoyance , not thinking of the runaway . 
Graham started with surprise ; `` William Mildmay , '' said he , with emotion , `` was my father 's name -- what is it that you connect it with ? '' 
`` The accident of having a runaway , sir , '' said Mildmay , with considerable sternness , `` is a result of a thousand causes which I care not to discuss . 
said Dixon , pretending to choke at the instant , to keep Mildmay from seeing the expression of his face . 
`` I ca n't say that I would , '' replied Mildmay , relapsing into an indifferent mood . 
`` If such were the fact , '' said Mildmay speculatively , `` why perhaps he might be a good servant , -- especially as he did not run off until my father died . '' 
`` I might , '' returned Mildmay , `` then make a sacrifice of my judgment , and receive him ; but such improbable circumstances I think never will occur . '' 
`` You can do as you please , sir , '' said Mildmay ; then hesitating a moment , he continued , `` If I found the boy troublesome or discontented , I could certainly let him go again . '' 
Mildmay , who had received much valuable business information from Dixon , relative to his future plans , had continued the conversation about Charles out of respect to Dixon 's seemingly earnest desire to talk , and not from any interest or real knowledge of what was the construed import of his language ; yet when Dixon and Mildmay separated , the negro trader assumed that he had Mildmay 's authority to arrest Charles , if he could find him , and bring him on to Heritage Place , while Mildmay himself could not have conceived any thing farther from his thoughts . 
A few days only elapsed before Mildmay , much to Fenwick 's satisfaction , had completed the proposed purchase . 
By a train of fortunate circumstances , he believed he had secured a great bargain , which opinion was confirmed by subsequent examination . 
The arrangements having been fully completed , Fenwick was desirous of hurrying away ; and finding Mildmay disposed to carry out his desire to visit the surrounding country , he took from his employer some general directions , and rapidly pursued his way to his old home , to make preparations for the contemplated removal to Heritage Place . 
Thedifficulties attending the removal of Mildmay 's `` force '' from the `` old homestead , '' seemed to him at times to be almost insurmountable . 
His original intention was to send the stoutest of his men under the care of Fenwick to Richmond , and then send them by sea to New Orleans ; but the negroes expressed the utmost horror at being separated , and as he found it impossible to make them understand that they were all to meet again in Louisiana , he determined at whatever cost and trouble it might be , to keep them all together , and personally superintend their exodus . 
Mildmay discharged his duties , however , with spirit ; he had very little local attachment for his birth-place , and but for the fact that the vicinity was hallowed by the memory of his parents , he would have left with scarce a lingering look behind . 
Beside , the rich lands of Heritage Place , their growth of gigantic magnolias , live-oak , and their teeming abundance , contrasted strangely bright with the worn-out , and originally sterile , soil of his native State . 
Governor was the oracle among the negroes ; he had accompanied his master in his travels , and he alone of all his fellow-servants could give information as to what they were to expect in the future ; and half the long nights would he sit in the quarters , with an anxiously listening group of sable faces and staring eyes about him , and detail the wealth and magnificence that he witnessed `` way-down upon the Mississippi . '' 
Governor , in his official communications , was particularly eloquent about the growth of cotton , and expatiated upon it with never-tiring pertinacity . 
`` You do n't have to get down on your knees , niggers , '' said he one evening , in his exaggerated mood , `` to hunt up cotton bolls , as you do on dis North Carolina farm . 
The care and responsibility that rested upon Mildmay , hourly changed the giddy thoughts of youth into the solemn reflections of sobered maturity . 
As he rode ahead of his `` helpless family , '' he could not help contrasting his position and duties with the lighter experience of his college days ; and there were times when sorrow and vexation came upon him , and then he envied those whose birth had relieved them of the heavy responsibilities that had been by Providence placed upon him . 
If the negroes became dispirited , he encouraged them ; if they were sick , he acted both as nurse and physician . 
If the wagons broke , he it was that personally superintended their repair . 
In truth , Mildmay alone was the thinking , responsible soul of the throng . 
Week after week passed on , and Mildmay found himself approaching the end of the most laborious part of his tedious journey . 
He had left the mighty pine forests of North Carolina behind him , which , desolate as they seem , contain untold wealth , as the reward of well-directed industry , and was descending into the romantic valley of the Cumberland , in the State of Tennessee . 
The independent planters along the highways , often compelled Mildmay to be their guest , and assisted him in the temporary disposition of his negroes . 
As Graham neared the noble tributary of the Ohio , he became involved with innumerable bodies of emigrants , of every condition of life , who were , like himself , struggling on toward a new home . 
It would have afforded a curious example of Southern life , to the people of Malden , could they have seen their favorite student , their eloquent valedictorian , their refined and carefully arrayed Graham Mildmay ; ride along their elm-embowered streets , as he now appeared at the approaching termination of this arduous journey to his prospective home . 
His overcoat , which he constantly wore , was soiled ; and his hat , originally broadbrimmed , to protect his face from the sun and rain , had wilted up under their combined influences , and flapped rowdily over his face ; his thick , strong boots , were of a dingy yellow color , and half concealed by the heavy straps that fastened on his spurs . 
Around his waist was a belt , that relieved him from some fatigue while riding , and at nightfall , while he watched by the camp fire , held the protecting pistol . 
The admiring friends of Malden would not ; yet we think , that the microscopic eye of affection would have seen , in the ease of attitude , -- in the centaur attachment to the noble horse , -- in the firm impress of the foot , though scarcely touching the stirrup , -- in the sovereign carriage of the head , -- in the self-reliance of the eye , -- that such was indeed Graham , and that his real merits shone forth sublime , although undecked by fashion 's art . 
Graham , after nearly two long , weary months , had the pleasure of seeing , while at his night watch , the puffing steam from a boat , that was gliding up the long-wished or Cumberland . 
The sight filled him with pleasure ; the disagreeable part of his journey was at an end . 
On the following morning , Fenwick , who had been dispatched ahead , some two or three days in advance , met Mildmay , as had been appointed , at his present encampment , and gave him the pleasant information , that on the second day following the fine steamer , `` Great West , '' would be at `` Ford 's landing . '' 
`` This is more fortunate than I could have expected , '' said Mildmay . 
asked Mildmay with impatient interest . 
There was again heard the sounds of light-hearted laughter , and Jack in stentorian voice struck up an extemporaneous refrain , with a tremendous chorus of -- In the course of the ensuing morning , Graham overtook an old wagon drawn by two skeleton oxen . 
asked Graham , riding beside the man , and adopting , insensibly to himself , the language of the road . 
continued Graham , with some curiosity . 
said Graham , feeling in his pocket . 
pursued Graham , willing to be interested in any passing event . 
`` Why you see , '' said the animated automation , tipping his poor oxen on the head with his whip , `` Why you see , the tarpentine and cutting log business stopped on the Pedee , and the mast crap failed , so the stock died and I thought I 'd go to Alabam , and commence again . '' 
`` And why do you go to Alabama , my friend , '' suggested Graham delicately , `` when , '' he continued , `` you pass so much good land upon your route ? '' 
queried Mildmay , now decidedly interested . 
`` You have a long way before you , '' said Graham in real sympathy ; `` and perhaps you will allow me to loan you a trifle , as I 'm a North Carolinian myself ; '' and Graham held towards the man a few silver dollars . 
Graham added to the amount he had proposed to give to the man , placed the coins in the cold attenuated hand of the poor emigrant 's wife , and received a smile in return , that he credited to Annie Hastings , and then with a light heart galloped on after `` his people . '' 
It was ten o'clock at night before Mildmay reached `` the ford . '' 
It appeared as if his cattle and his negroes had just strength to accomplish the journey , for they now all appeared to be absolutely broken down ; the task completed , the spirit of the man no longer sustained his infirmities . 
Graham with his own hands , assisted Fenwick in making up a fire to protect his dependants from the night air , and with a solemn joy he sat down and thanked Heaven that the most dreaded task of his life had been so happily accomplished . 
Graham 's journey down the Cumberland was characterized by no startling incident . 
He was exceedingly fortunate in procuring a boat large enough to take his slaves , wagons and other property without difficulty on board . 
He superintended the erection of temporary benches behind the engines as sleeping places for his negroes , provided them with a large stove for cooking their victuals , and made them , under the circumstances , very happy indeed . 
For himself he selected a comfortable state-room in the cabin , which he occupied most of the day , in resting from the fatigues he had gone through with , in reading , and what to him was of the greatest pleasurable importance , in sketching an epitome of his `` Wanderings through the Wilderness , '' which was carefully sealed , and at one of the way post-offices along the river , when the steamer stopped to procure wood , provisions or passengers , was mailed to Miss Annie Hastings , Malden . 
Fenwick had a comfortable bed prepared among the negroes , and at night , at stated times , Mildmay took his watch while Fenwick slept , to preserve them from evil communications ; from being enticed away ; and for their general protection . 
Night after night , when Graham 's dependants were wrapped in oblivious , care-dissipating sleep , would he pace for long and solitary hours ; a sentinel , who , not only guarded and defended , but had to think , act and provide for those who were placed in his charge . 
The sickening mists of the river would roll over his person , while he was at his post , the profane and reckless conversation of the deck hands would salute his ear -- all was rough , ungenial , barbarous . 
Once upon his new plantation , he soon became interested in the establishment of his force in their quarters , and in providing his overseer with a house . 
There were mechanics to employ , agricultural implements to be obtained , money to be procured , and a thousand annoyances he could not anticipate , favorable as were his circumstances , compared with thousands who seek a new home in the Southwest . 
Mr. Moreton occasionally rode over to see Graham , and assisted him by many useful suggestions ; but to return these visits , Graham never went abroad except on business . 
The crop was in the ground , the prospect of the future was bright , and as the necessity of exertion ceased , so did Graham relax from his cares , and begin to think of some repose as a reward for his unceasing industry . 
It was now that his affection for Annie increased . 
He now had a home to invite her to , he longed for her society , he wished to hear her merry laugh ring through his house , and see her grace his now solitary table . 
Fenwick was competent and trustworthy , and , sooner than he intended , Graham made his preparations to visit the North . 
Judging from Annie 's letters -LRB- for within the last year Graham and Annie had directly corresponded with each other -RRB- , a responsive chord had been touched in her bosom . 
It was these letters that gilded all of Graham 's cares . 
In the solitary musings of his journey through the `` Old North State , '' in his repose by the side of his camp fire among the rich lands and hospitable people of Tennessee , at his midnight watch on the Mississippi , or his solitary hours at Heritage Place , Annie 's letters had been his greatest solace , and he exulted that he had awakened an interest in her heart , and that she was the chosen companion of his life . 
Every thing with Graham had gone well . 
The young planter felt just pride as he rode over his broad acres , and witnessed the improvements of Heritage Place . 
The neglected out-buildings were now neat and comfortable , the dilapidated fences were all repaired ; and there were evidences of a coming reward for agricultural labor , pursued under his own observant eye . 
Graham , in fact , seemed destined to great worldly prosperity . 
On the same day he received a letter from North Carolina announcing his probable heirship to a handsome estate , left by a distant relative of whose existence he had never before heard , and one from his commission merchant in New Orleans , offering him a large advance on the original amount he gave for Heritage Place Nearly two years had passed since he left Malden . 
Now relieved of the pressure of business cares , he determined , even sooner than he had intended , to visit the North . 
His arrangements were soon made , and leaving every thing in charge of Fenwick , he set out upon his long anticipated trip . 
Graham once upon his journey , was himself surprised at his own impatience . 
Night and day he had but one idea , and that was , to speed on his way . 
Arriving at Malden , he at once proceeded to his hotel . 
As he rattled along its streets , he recognized the familiar buildings as they appeared to dance when looked at through the windows of the coach , and recognized the happy faces of many merchants and citizens with whom he was familiar . 
Another instant and the vehicle stopped Its door was opened , and Mildmay jumped out upon the pavement . 
`` Mildmay , '' `` Graham , '' shouted a dozen voices at once , and he was overwhelmed with gratulations . 
His fellow students , who had , as freshmen , heard his eloquent valedictory , but now grown into solemn juniors , fairly hugged him round the neck , while the honest old landlord of the `` Hotel '' stood by , and when he could get an opportunity helped Graham up the steps as if he were his own long lost but now returned son . 
It was the idle hour of the day at Malden , and the news spread from mouth to mouth , and ran along the streets with telegraphic quickness , that `` Graham Mildmay had come ! '' 
There was an absolute sensation of pleasure that beat like a pulse among all the people , so much was Graham beloved . 
Dr. Elliott caught the news , as he was working in his flower-garden , and by twilight trimming into shape a honeysuckle vine , and the good old man , just where he was , fell upon his knees and returned thanks to Heaven , that he was to see his `` beloved child again . '' 
Annie the while was in her own room , looking over Graham 's last letter . 
`` He will certainly be here the day after to-morrow , if he is not mistaken in the time ; he surely would not delay on the way , '' she reflected , as the blood mantled to her cheeks , and while thus engaged at her own speculations and communing with her own thoughts , a favorite but stately old female servant of the Hastings family stole up to Annie 's room and gently pushed at the door , but finding it locked she stopped and said : `` Mistress Annie , he ` scome . '' 
Her delicate face grew red and pale , and then crushing Graham 's letter to her face she found relief in deep , scalding , gushing tears . 
As soon as Graham could do so , he slipped away from his friends , and his first act was to write and dispatch a note to the old Hastings House , and half an hour afterwards he was rapidly threading the familiar streets of Malden . 
The time since Graham had last seen her had wrought many changes in her appearance . 
It would seem that she had watched the love passages between the young people , and for the first time to Annie 's knowledge had she shown some symptoms of sympathy with the affairs of the heart ; in announcing Graham 's arrival , and when he came upon the steps of the old mansion , before even his impatient hand was lifted , she opened the door , and gently letting Graham in , she pointed to the parlor and said : `` She 's there , -- alone , '' and disappeared . 
Thesummer to Graham and Annie passed rapidly away , and with the fall came the preparations for `` the master 's '' return to the South . 
Presently the door opened and Graham , with Annie in her travelling dress and leaning upon his arm , made his appearance . 
As the carriage door closed upon Graham and Annie , the young wife thrust her hand through the window , and waved her adieus as long as those who had so carefully raised and so fondly loved her could be seen ; but soon recovering her self-possession , she seized Mildmay 's hand , and looking in his face with childlike confidence , asked : `` How long , Graham , shall we be in getting home ? '' 
Graham , once on his way South , became anxious to reach his journey 's end , and by such progress as was not fatiguing to Annie , he was soon upon the Ohio , and rapidly descending the Mississippi . 
When Graham landed at the point on the river nearest his plantation , he found that he would have to make the rest of the journey by land , or in a skiff , as the bayou was now almost dried up . 
There were no families residing near `` the landing , '' and no places of accommodation that could afford a comfortable shelter for the night ; and this unexpected difficulty gave Graham a great deal of annoyance . 
As the steamer on which they had lived so pleasantly for many days disappeared , it seemed to Annie that she and Mildmay had been abandoned in the forests . 
Two negroes who were employed in chopping wood near by , came forward , and instantly recognized `` Master Mildmay , '' and by their assistance Graham got his trunks up the steep bank , and deposited them and Annie under the shade of a wide-spreading tree . 
`` This is rather rough , Annie , '' said Graham , looking around , `` but it is very rarely that persons find themselves in our strait . 
If Fenwick could have anticipated our arrival , '' he continued , `` the carriage would have been in waiting . '' 
`` It 's only twenty miles you say , Graham , and then we are home , '' suggested Annie . 
`` You are a brave girl , '' said Mildmay , laughing , `` but we will do better than that ; see , here comes some one who will assist us , '' and Graham looked towards the proprietor of one of the log cabins in the neighborhood . 
A rough-looking man came up , and instantly recognized Graham , and shook him cordially by the hand . 
He said , among other things , that he had been `` down the bayou , '' a few days before ; had seen Fenwick ; that every thing looked well , and promised a fine crop , and also , that Fenwick did not expect Mildmay for a week . 
This gossip was exceedingly gratifying to Mildmay , and it was soon arranged , that he would go home in a `` skiff , '' as there was water enough for that purpose . 
The baggage was removed to the light boat , the two negroes took their places as oarsmen , and Graham helped Annie into the stern , and took his place beside her . 
As the skiff proceeded , Graham explained to Annie how it was , that in `` high water , '' the dark muddy sluiceway through which they were then travelling would contain a flood , in which the largest ships could navigate ; and by other descriptions of scenery , and pleasant incidents , he beguiled the time . 
Gradually the sun settled down in the west , and the deep , dark shadows of the primitive forests shrouded the earth ; Annie instinctively clung closer to Graham , her terrors in spite of herself , sometimes almost overcoming her self-possession . 
Graham stared curiously a moment , and then recognized Annie 's home ; but so altered , by a thorough painting , since he had been away , that for a moment he did not know it himself . 
Once , '' he continued , `` on the banks above us , and you will see a country of surpassing loveliness . '' 
`` As I live , '' said Graham , to Annie , `` I believe that is old Ben 's voice -- Ben -- Ho ! 
Ben , '' shouted Graham , so loudly , that he perfectly astonished Annie with his vehemence . 
again shouted Graham . 
Ben was heard to say ; instantly all was still , and again Graham called . 
`` Your master , '' said Graham , half vexed at old Ben 's obtuseness . 
The skiff had now fairly rounded the point , on which Ben stood , and coming near him , Graham said : `` Ben , why do n't you hurry off to the house , and tell Mr. Fenwick I am coming , with your mistress , up the bayou . '' 
The negro stopped to hear no more ; in another instant he was rushing along in the dark , like a perturbed spirit , yelling and laughing by turns , and when he could find time , saying : -- `` Master 's come ! 
All this seemed to Annie as if she were in a dream ; she could not believe its reality ; even Mildmay appeared changed ; for , from the dim light reflected on his face , he seemed to have turned to bronze . 
Gradually the location of things developed themselves to Graham ; for the first time , he knew exactly where he was , and he found that between him and the solid earth was twenty feet of soft , muddy deposit of the bayou . 
Graham rose up , and hurriedly saluted his dependants , and then gave directions for getting him out of his temporary difficulties . 
Forgetting , at the moment , that Annie had never seen a dozen negroes in her life , until within the few days she had been on a western steamer , he ordered some of his men `` to carefully lift her ashore . '' 
Annie heard the order with astonishment ; it seemed in the momentary exaggeration of her fears , that Graham designed her for destruction , and throwing her arms around his neck in unqualified terror , she exclaimed : -- `` No , no , do n't consign me to these men . '' 
In an instant Graham comprehended Annie 's feelings , and with an inward consciousness of deep pain at his want of consideration , he sternly commanded the officious negroes to stand aside ; and now communicating freely with Fenwick , ordered him to get some plank or rails , and make such a walk , as he could , with safety , help Annie over himself . 
Then there were the many dependants of Mildmay , who , in their clamorous joy , were crowding into the doors and windows to see `` master '' and `` mistress . '' 
All these things overcame Annie , and she weepingly begged Graham to dispense with all attendants , and sit down beside her , that she might feel , and gradually comprehend , that they were alone . 
Night closed in , the angel of peace spread her wings over the domestic scene ; Graham 's fondest hope was realized ; Annie was indeed mistress of Heritage Place . 
Mildmay took advantage of the pleasant mornings to engage with her in agreeable horseback rides through the splendid adjoining forests , and the evenings were passed in reading , or , as Annie herself observed , `` appreciating the luxury of being in the open air . '' 
Mildmay , who had himself a keen sense of the beautiful in nature , as he was leaning one evening against the heavy columns , watching the close of day , heard the light footsteps , and turning round , he received Annie with a smile ; and then assisting Clemmy in arranging her easy chair , and seeing that Annie was luxuriously buried in the soft cushions , and properly provided by an array of shawls as a reserved guard against the chilliness of approaching night , he seated himself nearly in front of her , and taking out his cigar-case , he ordered Prince to get him `` a light ; '' and having done all this , he said : `` A few moments more , Annie , and you would have lost this brilliant sunset . '' 
Prince instantly returned , bringing a living coal upon the prong of an ivory-handled fork ; Graham blew off the mouldering ashes , and lit his delicate Havana : then assuming an easy attitude , he gave one puff , and said , `` Thus , Annie , the aborigines dedicated the fragrance of the weed to their gods ; I , more devout and more useful , shall let these fleeting clouds serve to destroy the mosquitoes , already singing round you . '' 
`` Well , '' exclaimed Graham , `` if I were not so comfortable just now , and so determined not even to think , I might reply to your unorthodox remarks , regarding my disinterestedness . '' 
`` There again , '' said Graham ; `` what a pampered girl ; you eschew my compliments , and now question the integrity of my throne : surely , being half buried in the deep cushion folds of that old ` arm-chair , ' makes one an egotist . 
and he pointed to the west . 
Mildmay had put on his college skullcap , the heavy tassel fastened to its top hanging nearly to his shoulder ; his `` blouse '' was loose and flowing , while the smoke of his cigar curled lazily about his head . 
Mildmay looked at his wife with admiration , but made no reply . 
`` True , '' half murmured Mildmay , buried in deep reflection ; `` there 's the old blue ridge itself . '' 
`` What a pity , Mildmay , '' suggested Annie , respectfully , `` that these rich lands of the South have not some granite hills to break up their sameness ; I have a fancy that mountains cherish freedom of thought , as well as perfect health ; is it not thus ? '' 
`` So records history , '' returned Mildmay , eyeing with anxious expression the placid appearance of Annie 's face . 
inquired Mildmay , without moving his head . 
The proud affection of Mildmay had surrounded Annie with all the elegant associations of the most favored of her sex , and many cherished mementoes of her New England home , mingled with the costlier appurtenances , and gave the charm of familiarity to all . 
The night air growing too cool , and the nine o'clock bell at the quarters having an hour before rung ; Annie rose from her seat in the gallery , moved toward the door leading into the house , while Mildmay pleading some busi THE QUIET CLOSE OF DAY.THE QUIET CLOSE OF DAY . 
On entering as if performing a customary task , she carefully returned her Bible to its appointed place , leaving the favorite binding of Clemmy to ignobly repose its splendor upon the brass nails of one of Mildmay 's much worn travelling trunks . 
Aswith all wealthy planters , the most perplexing care to Mildmay , was the management of the overseer . 
Mildmay had his share of difficulties after Fenwick left him , but he at length employed a `` Mr. Toadvine , '' who could command readily in the neighborhood a liberal salary , and was well recommended . 
Mildmay , upon concluding his agreement with Toadvine , gave him some general instructions , proscribing on his place the use of a certain kind of whip , and incidentally mentioning , that if Jack , one of the `` field hands , '' should at any time need correction , he desired that it would not be administered without his , Mildmay 's , knowledge . 
Some months after Toadvine was installed in his office , the unexpected announcement , by Mr. Mildmay , that business would call him away from home for two or three days , caused a feeling of universal gratulation in the mind of the overseer , and the very morning on which he saw from his station in the field , that Mildmay had departed on his journey , he returned to his house at the head of `` the quarters , '' and taking down the `` proscribed lash , '' he carefully and artistically proceeded to soften its material , and by repeated twistings , wringings , and drawing it through his tightly grasped hand , he brought it at last to a satisfactory state of toughness and pliability . 
Then rising up and going out of doors he whirled it around his head , and taking deliberate aim at a cypress splinter , nearly the size of his little finger , that obtruded from the boards of the fence , he cut it off with the end of the lash , as smoothly as if it had been done with the edge of his bowie-knife ; he then playfully singled out fair surfaces on the side of his cabin , and impressed upon them at each blow , various hieroglyphic characters with his whip , and although no particular effort was made , he buried the snapper deeply into the somewhat time-softened wood . 
Meanwhile Governor had opened the gate , and Mildmay and Annie passed through , and pursued their way down the road , the servant following at a respectful distance in the rear . 
`` I will be more careful hereafter , Ponce , '' said Annie , laughing , and glancing at her favorite , `` how I let you into my secrets ; for , do you know , '' she said , looking at Mildmay , `` that I believe some dogs have the quality of intelligence . '' 
`` You have improved , Graham , amazingly , upon my speculation , '' said Annie gayly . 
`` Hurrah , '' said Mildmay , with playful exultation , `` hurrah for Annie Hastings ! 
`` I will beat you in a fair race to the field gate , '' said Annie , blushing , and pushing her heretofore lingering palfrey into a gallop , away she sped , Mildmay gallantly following just in the rear , with Ponce de Leon , crazy with excitement , far in the van . 
Mildmay filled the gourd that was floating on the top , and offered it to Annie , which she playfully refused . 
`` I see , Annie , '' said Mildmay , most liberally helping himself , `` that you can not get accustomed to a gourd , -- but , according to my ideas , it is the only goblet that truly accords in simplicity with the gently gurgling spring . '' 
The sun , as it rose higher in the heavens , began to pour down with intensity , and Mildmay , perceiving that Annie was suffering from the heat , suggested more rapid progress , and the two struck into a `` lope , '' which was continued for a long distance without interruption . 
`` Let us have some water here , '' said Mr. Moreton , looking about generally , after himself and Mildmay had seated themselves , and the ladies had retired to a distant part of the house . 
Now Mildmay was exceedingly thirsty , and so appeared Mr. Moreton ; but although there were great numbers of negroes moving about the premises , presenting themselves and then disappearing like puppets in a show , still no water came . 
`` Not at all , '' said Mildmay promptly , `` I have , I am sorry to say , formed a liking for a good cigar , which desire I gratify , but beyond that , I am careful not to tax my strength by unnecessary stimulants . '' 
The girl obeyed , and presented Mildmay with the box , but he declined smoking for the time being , and the two gentlemen again seating themselves , seemed disposed to enter upon conversation , as persons who had a great deal to say , and more than sufficient time to say it in . 
Laying aside a coquettish sun-bonnet , which she preferred to use in the middle of the day , when out on horseback , to the more showy riding cap that Mildmay had provided her with , she sat down in a comfortable chair , and submitted to the ordeal of examination from the distended eyes of her sable attendant . 
AlthoughMoreton and Mildmay had frequently met at Beechland , and on the highway , they really were but little acquainted with each other . 
Mr. Moreton was ceremonious when out of his own house , and Mildmay had found constant occupation on his plantation ; and , with Annie 's society , had no particular inducement to go abroad , -- so , although Mr. Moreton and Mildmay sat down together with the mutual idea of being pleased with each other 's society , yet it was nevertheless true , that the emotions of sympathy were yet to be called forth by the interchange of harmonious thoughts . 
A few moments ' conversation only had taken place before Mr. Moreton and Mildmay , to their own astonishment , found that they differed on every interchange of sentiment ; and as Mr. Moreton , living as he did in a somewhat solitary place , had , by long association with his negroes , become , insensibly to himself , restive under contradiction , although respectfully offered , and from one he acknowledged an equal ; still his abruptness of manner at first caused Mildmay to yield in silence , and then to differ from Mr. Moreton even beyond the natural bent of his true feelings . 
`` I must beg to differ with you again , '' said Mildmay , quietly , `` for I have found not only the Northern colleges excellent as literary institutions , but useful , in giving the collateral advantage of acquaintance with the social and commercial character of our brethren of the whole Union . '' 
`` I have n't found such to be my experience , '' said Mildmay , for the instant annoyed . 
`` But I have shown great willingness myself to be identified with them , '' said Mildmay , laughing ; `` for , '' he continued , `` the best half of me is the very pith of the Mayflower stock . '' 
`` True , true , '' said Mr. Moreton , his natural gallantry getting the better of his prejudices ; `` and I wish such rare infusions were more frequent : but you will admit , my dear Mildmay , '' continued he , after a pause , `` that the tendency of Northern colleges are anti-Southern in their influence . '' 
`` Not necessarily so , '' said Mildmay , with decision `` for , '' he continued , `` out of three hundred students I was associated with at Malden , most of whom were Yankees , and to the manner born , there were but two avowed abolitionists ; and what is most remarkable , one of those insanities is now an editor of a secession paper in South Carolina , and the other a school teacher in Georgia , publishing addresses cautioning the planters of the South against using New England primers , lest they get unconsciously infected with abolition sentiments in spelling English words . '' 
`` You were going to say , ` New England character , ' '' suggested Mildmay , smiling ; `` but , I see nothing of the kind in my illustration , and these two young men that I speak of , are mere time-servers . 
Finishing their education , they went South , and , always consistent , they flatter the pro-slavery feeling among us , and are as heartless and unprincipled and dangerous in their new vocation , as they were in their old ; and , '' continued Mildmay , his eyes flashing fire , `` I loathe and despise such cowardly creatures ; they are a disgrace when compared with the lowest standards of man . '' 
`` You will pardon me , sir , '' said Mildmay , `` if I say , that this truckling to interest , this sacrifice of conscience and truth , is not peculiar to New England , or New England men . 
`` I know that I am right , '' said Mildmay ; `` look , '' he continued , `` at the burnings and lynchings of negroes , which have disgraced the fair fame of the South , and it will be found that the planters , the men of wealth and education , have rarely been participators -- the deeds were done by irresponsible men , who owned no negroes themselves , but who thus gratified their unholy passions , through the corrupt idea , that their excessive zeal gave evidence of devotion to Southern interests . '' 
`` Mildmay , I believe that what you say is true , '' said Moreton , stopping in his walk , and falling into a brown study , and then thrown off his guard by Mildmay 's impressiveness -- `` Now , I remember , in the Murrell excitement , we tried an incendiary at Beechland , and Judge Lynch sentenced him to be hung . 
`` And , by this murder , the suspected individual appeased the public sentiment against himself , '' said Mildmay , with emotion . 
`` And would hang usto-morrow , '' said Mildmay , with disgust , `` if the insurrection were against us . 
As Mildmay concluded , Mr. Moreton absolutely fell into his chair . 
A sort of desolate feeling came over him , the future looked gloomy and uncertain , and for a moment he mentally groped in darkness , -- and then , brushing his hand across his brow , he said : `` Mildmay , if we would happily live in the South , we must not look so deeply and darkly upon the things around us ; '' and with this remark , Mr. Moreton 's thoughts launched again into the current of life , allowing the present only to occupy his mind ; the future he carefully excluded . 
Fortunately , to relieve both gentlemen of their embarrassment , Col. Lee , the only person invited to dine with the Moretons , on Mildmay 's visit , was seen riding toward the house ; and by this exclusive invitation Mr. Moreton intended to show Mildmay the high esteem he placed upon his visit , for Col. Lee was presumed only to honor with his company people of admitted pretensions , for he claimed for himself , to be one of the `` first families of Virginia , '' and consequently was aristocratic to the last degree . 
He saluted Mildmay with a courteous dignity , such as Washington may have been presumed to use on great state occasions , and before he had well seated himself , a servant was already by his side , with a salver containing liqueurs , and a pitcher of cool water . 
Col. Lee helped himself to a glass of wine , and turning to Moreton and Mildmay , he expressed his pleasure at seeing them both looking so well , trusted that the ladies were in good health , and that Mrs. Mildmay found the climate of Louisiana to agree with her constitution ; and , tossing off his wine , he remarked complacently , `` Moreton , you have the most excellent water on your place . 
The moment that Col. Lee took his seat , Mr. Moreton brightened up , and a lively conversation ensued , in which Mildmay became interested , from the novelty of the ideas constantly presented , although they were not always in accordance with his manner of thinking . 
As Mr. Moreton had a large family , the subject of education was a source of constant reflection ; and as the exchange of ideas progressed , Mr. Moreton , unintentionally to himself , made some of his favorite remarks against Northern institutions of learning , when Colonel Lee , perceiving that Mildmay had differed with Moreton on their merits , broke out into a eulogistic defence of Southern Colleges , and wound up by a graphic description of the `` Virginia University , '' an institution , he said , that was the fountain of chivalry , of profound scholarship , and statesmanship ; and gradually progressing , he gave many anecdotes of the amusements of the students , and described with inimitable humor , a cock-fight , that took place one evening in `` the chapel , '' in which one of the professors lost to him nearly a half gallon of brandy , besides a box of the best Spanish cigars . 
Mildmay was more ceremonious , and after expressing his pleasure at seeing Mrs. Moreton , and Mrs. Marbury -LRB- Aunt Margaret -RRB- , he gave a look of pleasurable intelligence to Annie , and seated himself by her side . 
Mr. Moreton and Col. Lee courteously contended who should assist Annie on her horse , who , fairly mounted , waved her adieus ; and Mildmay , springing in the saddle , lifted his hat , and in a moment more he and his young wife were cantering down the road , -- the declining sun cautioning them that they must be quick-footed , if they would not be surrounded while in the forest by the solitude of night . 
Hobby had a high regard for Mildmay , simply because that gentleman had never treated him with the least passing notice ; and he was accordingly quite flattered , when Mildmay checked his horse in front of his little office one morning , and stated that he desired at a particularly named time his official services at the `` Heritage Place . '' 
inquired Hobby before Mildmay had time to finish his commission . 
`` Simply , '' returned Graham , `` to execute the papers for the sale of a negro ; and my reason for troubling you to come out to my house is , that it may possibly be inconvenient for Mrs. Mildmay to visit Beechland , to sign the title deed . '' 
`` The office is well enough , '' said Mildmay ; `` but ladies , you are aware , find it difficult to leave home . '' 
`` They do , '' returned Hobby , with emphasis ; and suddenly assuming his natural manner , he continued , `` Ladies thrive best in the domestic circle , surrounded by the endearments of home ; and , as the editor of the Southern War Trumpet observes , depending for support upon the sterner sex , as the vine upon the lordly oak . '' 
`` You are quite an enthusiast , Mr. Hobby , when alluding to the sex , '' returned Mildmay , gathering up the loose bridle-reins , and preparing to leave . 
Graham struck his spur gently into his horse 's flanks , and as the generous animal started off , he muttered to himself , `` Confound that fellow 's stereotyped compliments ; why do n't he practise some of his professions , by taking the most ordinary care of his notoriously neglected wife . '' 
When Mildmay reached home , Mr. Speers was waiting for him upon the gallery of the house . 
Mildmay saluted the gentleman , and after a few moments ' conversation with Annie , returned to his guest . 
`` I saw Squire Hobby , '' said he , drawing up a chair , and ordering Governor to bring some refreshments ; `` and I presume he will soon be here , as I saw his horse saddled before I left town . '' 
`` I am very sorry , '' said Mildmay , going to his desk , and getting out some papers , `` that Mr. Murritt , when he sold me the girl Mary , did not say you owned her husband . '' 
`` I certainly would not , '' said Mildmay , his face flushing with excitement . 
Mildmay bit his lip , and internally acknowledging , in spite of himself , that his long residence in the North had unprepared him somewhat for the associations around him ; and , at the moment , perceiving the busy Mr. Hobby approaching , he walked toward the gate to meet him , and lead the way to the house . 
`` This Mildmay is rather a stiff man , '' said Speers , looking nervously about , Graham having for the moment left his guests . 
`` He is , '' almost whispered Hobby ; `` but you see , '' he went on , `` it 's the way with the rich , -- they can afford to put on airs . '' 
`` But , '' continued Speers , with a sort of injured expression , `` Mildmay wo n't drink , -- wo n't frolic , -- wo n't card , -- wo n't chaw , -- and smokes a cigar as if he did ` nt love it ; what kind of a man is that ? '' 
`` Why , you see , the fact is , '' said Hobby , puckering up his mouth with the expression that he assumed when on `` the bench , '' `` you see Mr. Mildmay , though born in old Carolina , was raised among the Yankees , and his edication has been neglected ; I have n't lived , Mr. Speers , in Beechland nigh on to fifteen years for nothing : '' and Hobby looked more profound than ever , and touching Speers upon the breast , he continued : `` We have had a good many cases here like Mildmay , that did n't cut up such shindys more than a year or two , and then begun and went it strong to make up . 
Why Jim Ruggles , as keeps the race-track , and was tried last court for stocking cards , commenced here nine years ago worse than Mildmay . '' 
When Mildmay returned to the gallery , he was accompanied by a negro girl about twenty years of age , whose drabbled homespun garments betrayed that she had but just left the wet grass of the cotton field . 
`` Here 's Mary , '' said he , to Mr. Speers ; `` you have seen her , and are willing to purchase her at the stipulated price of six hundred dollars ? '' 
said Graham . 
`` Nor do I , '' said Mildmay , thoroughly annoyed ; `` I wish Mr. Speers you owned a hundred , if you desire to , -- only I regret that I should have been the instrument of separating the wife from a negro , to whom you seem so much attached . '' 
`` Mary , '' said Mildmay , turning to the negro , `` when I proposed to buy you , you said that you were not married ? '' 
`` Mr. Mildmay , '' said Speers , perfectly unconscious of the feelings agitating Graham 's breast , `` if you 'd like to keep that gal , you need n't be afeard that Cooney will come on your premises after I tell him to keep away ; I would like to own a nigger that would go whar I told him not to . '' 
`` It is not best to tempt him so strongly to disobey you , '' said Mildmay . 
`` You see Mary , '' said Mildmay , turning to the girl , `` that by being controlled , you deceived me ; now you are at liberty to speak the truth : do you prefer to go with Mr. Speers , or stay with me ? '' 
`` Very well , '' said Mildmay ; `` now go to the quarters , gather up your clothes and bedding , and come to the shed of the blacksmith 's shop in the front road . '' 
Mildmay at once produced pen , ink , and paper , and with the assistance of Governor , they were with a table placed on the gallery ; and Squire Hobby proceeded to his business of amanuensis . 
After examining the pen in every possible light , sticking the nib between his lips , turning round the paper , and , in fact , going through much seemingly useless pantomime , he assumed a very grave face ; and , turning to Mildmay , said : `` What 's the girl 's name ? '' 
Graham meanwhile went up into Annie 's room , and informed her that her presence was necessary one moment to sign the bill of sale . 
The little wife was trembling and nervous , and it instantly attracted Mildmay 's attention . 
said he , tenderly putting his arm round her waist . 
`` I fear so , '' said Graham , looking affectionately down into her face ; `` you confine yourself too much ; let us get clear of this loquacious squire , and our plain , but I have no doubt worthy neighbor , Mr. Speers , and then for a ride down the road . 
`` I mean , '' said Squire Hobby , endeavoring to imitate his ideal standard of judicial dignity , `` that if this nigger Mary has any of them ` ere things , and you find it out afore it is too late , just because I tuck that ` ere word redhibitory down where it is , it gives you your money back , -- and that 's what I mean ; '' and the squire intended to have laid back in his chair , as if deeply fatigued under his official importance , when his eye caught sight of Mildmay and Annie coming toward them . 
The moment that Mildmay saw the paper was drawn up , he proposed at once to close the transaction , pleading , as a reason for his haste , pressing engagements upon his time . 
Hobby , Mildmay remarking , `` that the amount was right . '' 
Know all men by these presents , that I , Graham Mildmay , of the first part , do , by these presents , grant , bargain , sell and convey to Mr. Joseph William Speers , of the second part , a certain negro girl named Mary La Tour , aged about twenty years , of a dark and nearly black color , no distinguishing marks of form , scars , or peculiarities remembered -- '' `` There is a dog bite on the calf of her leg , '' said Speers , turning perfectly red with astonishment , as he raised his eyes and saw Annie looking on with surprise , for Speers , was so intent with the purchase , that the reading of the bill for the moment banished every thing else from his mind . 
said Mildmay , exceedingly vexed that Annie had been compelled to be present . 
`` Well , go on , '' said Mildmay very impatiently ; and as if to protect Annie from further rude remarks , he put his arm around her chair . 
`` Oh -- ah -- I know , '' and he went on as follows : `` No distinguishing marks of form , scars , or particulars remembered ; said girl , Mary La Tour , being sold for the sum of six hundred dollars , lawful money of the United States , cash in hand paid , and hereby acknowledged by the party of the first part , Graham Mildmay , Esq. . 
Annie , who had listened to all the proceedings with mechanical attention , now arose , as Graham , taking the pen in his hand , signified that the title deed was complete . 
He then dashed his name across the paper , placed the pen in Annie 's hand , and pointed where she should place her name . 
said she , looking earnestly at Graham . 
Annie took up the pen , and her usually delicate and neatly written name straggled over the paper , a fearful evidence to Graham 's eye of the conflict going on in Annie 's mind , which he alone , of those who witnessed it , could appreciate . 
The duty performed , Mildmay accompanied Annie to the entrance of the great hall where stood Clemmy ; and leaving her with the faithful servant , Mildmay returned , -- took up the money still lying on the table , and crushing it together in his hand , without counting it , much to the astonishment of Speers , gave it to Governor , and told him to place it in the escritoire , and get some fresh water and the decanters , as he presumed the gentlemen were thirsty . 
The ceremony of drinking having been gone through with , Mildmay paid Esq. . 
Hobby for his services , walked down to the front gate , waited until both gentlemen had mounted , and bidding them good day , returned rapidly to the house . 
Perhaps Annie was more interested than any one else ; accustomed to attend church every sabbath , from her youth upward , she found this privilege most difficult to dispense with , and the moment the public notice met her eye , she consulted Graham , who gave Governor orders to have the carriage in readiness for the following Sabbath morning . 
The very sight of the pleasing throng , the subdued , yet self-evident bustle , revived in Annie 's mind , most vividly , the joyous feelings that she felt at Malden , on similar occasions , and a delightful glow of excitement lit up her usually rather pale face , as she absolutely threw herself carelessly into Mildmay 's arms , as he assisted her from the carriage to the ground . 
`` Really , Graham , '' said she , her face radiant with smiles , while smoothing the wrinkles from her dress , `` really this is pleasant , and I hope Mr. Goshawk will frequently preach for us ; I am sure I shall constantly attend . '' 
Graham smiled on Annie , and offering her his arm , the two proceeded into church . 
But it was evident that the verdict was in Annie 's favor , for as she came , necessarily , in full view of the congregation , who sat facing the door , a telegraphic surprise rested upon the countenances of all , and it was by Graham observed and felt , that Annie excited marked admiration . 
Mildmay , after looking over his memorandum book , wrote a draft on his merchant for the amount due Toadvine , and stepping out on the gallery , handed it to the overseer , with the question , `` Did you bring home Jack , last night , as you intended ? '' 
observed Mildmay , with perceptible emotion in his voice ; `` but no matter , '' he continued , evidently not desirous to seem to assume any superiority in habits or position ; `` no matter , I am going to Beechland this evening , myself , and I will call at the jail , and send Jack home , and thus have no further trouble about it . '' 
Rushing to his horse , that was cropping grass by the edges of one of the field roads , he leaped upon his back , and , as if Mildmay was most likely to now befriend him , he turned the animal 's head towards Heritage Place ; but before he had rode many yards he was hailed to stop -- turning suddenly , he went headlong down the field , when again he discovered that the fowling-pieces bore directly upon him ; desperate , and alarmed for his life , he now turned his horse 's head , as Bledsoe had anticipated , toward the swamp , and fairly flew , with speed ; accelerated no doubt , by a number of curs belonging to the negroes , barking and howling at his rear ; with a bound he cleared the fence , and knowing the country well , it seemed as if he would escape , so rapidly did he disappear amid the rich mellow gloom . 
Mildmay , from the time that Toadvine left him , had been engaged in looking over papers , brought to his recollection by opening his memorandum book , and he was , while listening to the unusual noise of the dogs barking in the field , startled by the appearance of Wash , who , with distended eyes , announced to his master `` dat a big party of gentlem was hunting down in de new ground . '' 
Mildmay , from an upper gallery , glanced over the field , just in time to see Toadvine 's fearful leap , and as he discovered the armed men follow in pursuit , he was instantly impressed with the belief that something serious had happened . 
Toadvine , the instant he felt the cord , comprehended his fate , and uttered one long , loud shriek for mercy ; but ere he could have repeated that heart-rending cry , the power to do so would have been at an end for ever , had not Mildmay , glowing with excitement , rushed into the ring ; checking his speed so abruptly , that his horse 's hoofs ploughed their way deeply into the virgin soil . 
Dark and lowering looks were turned upon the intruder , which instantly cleared away , as some one exclaimed , `` Mildmay , by the gods ! '' 
This name electrified with sudden life the sinking and terror-stricken Toadvine , who frantically seized Mildmay 's feet , and begged him for the love of God , to interfere and save his life . 
The fact that Toadvine was Mildmay 's overseer , and that it was Mildmay 's wrongs the party was professedly about to redress , caused his unannounced and unexpected presence to be greeted with a respect that might , under other circumstances , with persons so excited , have been attended with a different result . 
said Mildmay , snapping his eyes as if awaking from a sleep . 
said Mildmay , his face darkening , as he kicked himself loose from the overseer 's grasp . 
`` You would not hang this man , '' said Mildmay , leaping from his horse , and literally throwing himself as a shield over Toadvine 's prostrate form . 
At the mention of this name , Mildmay turned toward the person addressed and said : `` General Bledsoe , for such I understand you to be , permit me to beg as a personal favor , that you will leave this man in the hands of the law . 
`` You see , '' said General Bledsoe , looking at Mildmay , and playfully pointing at the rough Samaritan before him , `` you see that Ben Puckett is n't so bad a man after all , although he has a poor opinion of the laws . '' 
Mildmay forced a sickly smile , and asked , directing his eye to Bledsoe , `` if he could get Mr. Puckett to take the prisoner to the jail at Beechland , if he were paid liberally for the trouble ? '' 
Theinstant that Toadvine disappeared , and with him the different persons who had been so recently engaged in his pursuit , General Bledsoe turned to Mildmay , and showed by his manner a desire to enter into familiar conversation . 
Mildmay was himself highly delighted with General Bledsoe , and as he had always heard him spoken of as one of the most influential persons in the surrounding neighborhood , Graham felt more than ordinary pleasure that a mutual friendship promised to be the result of a most singular introduction . 
Annie was walking on the upper gallery , and as Mildmay looked up and greeted her with a smile , General Bledsoe instinctively turned his eye also upward , and unexpectedly seeing a lady , raised his hat and passed uncovered into the house . 
Wash soon made his appearance , and armed with water and a snowy napkin , he presented them to the general , who , quietly removing his gloves , laved his hands , while Mildmay performed the same pleasant office in his own room . 
When Graham returned to his guest , he was followed by Wash carrying a salver , on which were two or three kinds of choice liqueurs , and a box of superior cigars . 
The two gentlemen simply went through the ceremony of drinking , when Gen. Bledsoe set down his glass , and taking another , and filling it with cool water , he drank it off with evident satisfaction ; and then throwing himself into an easy chair , with Mildmay most comfortably disposed of , directly opposite to him , cigars were selected and lighted ; and after a few moments ' silence , the general , slowly blowing the smoke from his mouth , turned to Mildmay , and observed : `` From your given name , Mr. Mildmay , I judge that you are from the ` Old North State ? '' 
`` Such is the fact , '' replied Mildmay , rousing himself into an attitude of interest . 
`` Yet I think , '' continued the general , in a musing manner , `` that Mildmay is not a North Carolina name ? '' 
`` It is not , '' said Mildmay ; `` while my mother 's family name is very common , perhaps , there is not one of my surname that I am aware of in the State . '' 
`` Your mother then was a Graham , '' said the general , still deeply musing . 
`` They were from the immediate vicinity of Mecklenberg , '' said Mildmay . 
`` Then , Mr. Mildmay , '' said the general , his face animated with a smile , `` if we Americans paid much attention to genealogical trees , I should not be surprised if we could trace ourselves back to the same stock ; I know of no Mecklenberg Grahams that are not relations of mine . '' 
`` I am quite flattered , '' said Graham , `` by your supposition ; it will be a source of pleasure for me to know that I have so interesting , though so vague a claim upon your good opinion . '' 
Graham laughed , and replied , `` he hoped it were true . '' 
`` Mrs. Mildmay -- General Bledsoe , '' said Graham , rising . 
The general rose from his seat , and placing his hand upon his heart , he bowed , as if a courtier by profession ; and then extending his hand , he just touched the tips of Annie 's fingers , and remarked : `` I am happy to have the pleasure of meeting with a lady whose presence has added so much grace and beauty to our vicinity . 
At this very moment , I was trying to prove to your good husband that we were some sort of cousins at least ; and now , '' he continued , smiling at Annie , `` I shall especially insist that I am right . '' 
The moment Gen. Bledsoe left , Mildmay ordered `` old Uncle Dan '' to go to Beechland , and bring up the body of Jack , that it might be decently interred upon the plantation . 
`` You will hear that some other time , '' said Mildmay , a cloud passing over his face at the recollection of the boy 's fate ; `` do as I tell you , and ask no questions now . '' 
`` Come straight back from town , '' said Mildmay , sternly ; `` and if you stop by the way at any of those groggeries on the edge of Beechland , you will regret it , sir , for the rest of the year . '' 
and Dan hobbled off with a manner that would leave an impression upon those who did not know him , that he was exceedingly injured at Mildmay 's imputation on his immaculate character . 
Mildmay , who was temporarily occupied in superintending some repairs in the road , was sitting on his horse , when Dan made his appearance ; and as the old negro humbly touched his hat to `` master , '' he remarked : `` I see , Dan , you have not forgotten the old mule 's appetite , judging from the fodder you take along with you . '' 
Mildmay under ordinary circumstances would have discovered the fraud , but his mind was too much occupied by the events of the day , to observe all the minor incidents passing before him . 
Now the major had informed himself in advance of all the property that Toadvine was worth , so pulling out a paper , and a pocket inkstand , he made a preliminary transfer to himself of all Toadvine 's worldly goods , viz. , the horse , -- Mildmay 's due-bill , -- and the legal possession of half of the negro boy Jo ; that being done , the major at once entered upon the business before him , and in less than ten minutes satisfied Toadvine that it was now easy to get him clear of the consequences of killing Jack , -- which made Toadvine again come to the conclusion in his own mind , that twenty dollars was even more than enough to pay any one for getting him out of `` this little affair . '' 
Mr. Moreton had always seemed to take great pleasure in giving the young planter the benefits of his varied experience , and as every hint thus received , was cordially acted upon by Mildmay , it served to secure him an interest in Mr. Moreton 's mind , that was not called forth by the more ordinary manner of corresponding sympathies ; for it was a fact , that the two gentlemen seldom met and discussed matters of great import , that they did not decidedly disagree . 
`` It is evidently one of the defects of the institution , '' said Mildmay in a moralizing tone , `` an evil growing out of the fact , that the negro can not bear testimony against these traffickers in good morals . '' 
`` I fear , '' said Mildmay , `` that under a government where all white men are theoretically free and equal , we planters can never arrogate such power . '' 
`` Yet I must still indulge the idea that such is the fact , '' continued Mildmay , with the enthusiasm of youth ; `` because I have hope , that our Republican institutions will yet clearly prove the assertion of equality to be true . '' 
said Mildmay , with evident surprise at the proposition . 
`` Certainly Beechland is not attractive , '' replied Mildmay ; `` and it would appear , from what I have seen , that many of our planters consider when within its precincts , that there is no necessity for self-restraint . '' 
`` I must there differ with you , '' said Mildmay , half jocosely ; `` I should like to see our Southern villages flourish . '' 
`` Good for nothing else , I suppose , '' said Mildmay , biting his under lip ; `` but , '' he continued , with some feeling , `` Mr. Moreton , do not let us , who should set an example , encourage such false ideas of political economy as are inculcated in the hue and cry of ` Southern independence , ' when we are , by our practical refusal to diversify our interests , so entirely unprepared for going alone . '' 
Mildmay remained silent , -- and as if sure of the justice of his argument , Mr. Moreton , after catching his breath , went on : `` Is there an article except our food , used in the South , not wholly , or in part , the product of Northern labor ; consuming millions of our resources , and illustrating the innumerable swindles the Yankees , have to legerdemain our dollars into their pockets ? '' 
asked Mildmay , showing an evident desire to be very attentive . 
`` Mr. Moreton , '' said Mildmay , solemnly , `` like most of our -LRB- I am sorry to say -RRB- popular Southern politicians , you have come to the right conclusion , but in the wrong way . 
`` I doubt not its ability , '' said Mildmay , with decision ; `` but I greatly doubt its consistent energy . 
Mr. Moreton had so long entertained his opinions without opposition , and had so allowed prejudice to obscure his naturally superior mind , that while Mildmay 's practical arguments had their effect , they annoyed , as well as convinced ; and Mr. Moreton , as a relief , fell back upon the reserved field , where he supposed Mildmay would cordially meet him in his very extreme views , and abruptly said , -- `` I never can reason as coolly on these subjects as yourself , sir , so long as I remember that the North constantly interferes with our domestic institutions . '' 
`` The North does interfere , '' said Mildmay , a cloud passing over his face ; `` but here , again , the South has a labor of self-denial to perform . 
`` The fugitive slave law , '' continued Mildmay , `` is founded upon a constitutional basis , yet it is , when enforced at the North , a source of the greatest evil to our good name , and the popular support of our institution . 
almost gasped Mr. Moreton , in his astonishment at Mildmay 's remarks . 
`` No , sir , '' said Mildmay , with energy , `` I would do nothing of the kind ; but what I did do for the protection of our slavery interest should be founded in reason , -- be practical in its operation , -- and accord , as far as might be possible , with the sentiment not only of the North , but of the world . 
Gen. Bledsoe , and Mildmay , came into the court-room together , and the crowd respectfully gave way , to let them pass , as the sheriff showed them seats `` inside the bar . '' 
`` Some one told me , '' said Gen. Bledsoe to Mildmay , observing this marked coat , `` that Toadvine 's friends had determined that he should make a break out of the house , in case the trial went against him -- but with that peculiar coat on , he could ` be spotted , ' even in the darkest night . '' 
`` There is some infernal trick about it , '' continued Gen. Bledsoe , biting the ivory handle of his riding-whip , `` you may depend , Mildmay ; that coat has not been put on that fellow without some ulterior object . '' 
Mildmay looked at the coat , but saw nothing except what was presented to his eye , although he perceived , to his own surprise , that Gen. Bledsoe was evidently in deep study , inspired by its appearance . 
`` If it had n't been for your well-meant , but I fear unfortunate interference , Mildmay , '' said Gen. Bledsoe , his face glowing with disgust at the preliminary proceedings of the trial , `` we should n't have had to listen to this d -- d farce enacting before us ; Toadvine would have got his deserts , and honest men their dues , '' and the general snapped his whip with undisguised impatience . 
`` I can not think , '' said Mildmay , for the first time in his life in doubt about the propriety of having done a good action , `` I can not believe , even with the rejection of our best men as jurors , but that the prisoner must be punished . '' 
Mildmay remained silent , while the painful scene of the attempted lynching of Toadvine passed in sickening shadows through his mind , and he shuddered , as if some undefined spirit of evil had breathed its blasting influence upon his inmost soul . 
The judge now squared himself around in his seat , unbuttoned his Arkansas blanket coat , and threw the collar gracefully over his shoulders ; and helping himself to a sip of water out of a broken pitcher within his reach , he took a cigar out of his pocket , and was in the act of lighting it with a lucifer-match , when he recollected that he was `` the Court : '' so he put the cigar back , and getting a large piece of tobacco from one of the spectators near him , he crowded one half of the appropriated weed in his mouth , and laid the remainder beside his spectacles ; and ordered the business of the hour to go on . 
Graham Mildmay was next called . 
After being sworn , he stated that he knew nothing of the murder , until informed of it by Gen. Bledsoe , and other gentlemen . 
`` If I had so thought him to be , '' answered Mildmay , `` I should not have employed him on my place . 
Without wishing to interfere with proper discipline , '' continued Mildmay , `` I must think that Mr. Toadvine was not always considerate , and that he acted frequently from impulses which overcame his judgment . '' 
Stubbs , who had been by Major Trimmer designedly kept in the bar-room of the `` Head-quarters , '' until Mildmay 's testimony had been given , got up , perfectly prepared to answer Major Trimmer 's leading questions , without regard to their meaning or effect , which would not have been the case , had he known all the particulars ; for he knew he was dependent upon the planters for his business , and therefore did not like to offend them . 
Mildmay , who had left home at the cost of neglecting important business that required his personal attention ; and feeling sorely disgusted at all he had witnessed , called Gen. Bledsoe apart , stated the facts , and announced his intention of returning home at once . 
`` It is a fearful alternative , '' sighed Mildmay ; and cordially shaking Gen. Bledsoe by the hand , he musingly pursued his way to Heritage Place . 
Mildmay , without ever having spoken to Hickman , had in some way mortally offended him ; and as he , Hickman , possessed a mean spirit , and wanted to win the reputation of a `` fighting man , '' he came to the singular determination that it would be a source of great glory to challenge Mildmay , and thus , without running any danger , receive the consideration so universally -LRB- as he supposed -RRB- bestowed upon a professed duellist . 
Hickman had often overheard Col. Lee speak in no respectful terms of what he called Mr. Mildmay 's courage ; it had become a kind of prevalent idea that Mildmay was principled against duelling . 
But , since the trial , Mildmay 's strict attention to business , -- his love of books , his conscientious discharge of every duty as a citizen , -- his interference on one or two occasions as a peacemaker between parties who had difficulties , -- his intense desire to leave Toadvine to be punished by the written law , rather than by violence , -- his condemnation , by example , of intemperance , -- all these things had gradually caused him to be looked upon as one `` destitute of spirit , '' as `` lacking chivalry ; '' and he became in popular estimation a rich but utterly ruined man , from the force of an unfortunate `` Northern education . '' 
It was a pleasure to him to see those begging and suing for his influence who had so long and so lately passed him unheeded by ; and after enjoying this triumph to his heart 's content , he coldly told Mr. Moreton of his feelings toward Mildmay , -- dwelt upon the supposed insults he had received from that young man , -- and demanded , as the only price that could be paid for his votes , that Mr. Moreton would the next day take from him , Hickman , a challenge to the owner of Heritage Place . 
Although of late there had sprung up between Mr. Moreton and Mildmay , some coolness , yet had Hickman proposed to Mr. Moreton such a thing , as being his second on the day before his nomination for office , Mr. Moreton would probably have chastised Hickman on the spot , but on the present occasion , his astonishment at the impertinence of Hickman , and his fear for the moment to offend him , kept him silent ; and for the first time in his life , he felt humbled in his own imperial heart . 
Take the challenge , '' he continued ; `` Hickman is an arrant coward , and Mildmay is too psalm-singing , and too much of a gentleman to accept it ; we 'll keep the thing on the tapis until after the election , get Hickman 's votes , and then let him go to the d -- l , or what is just the same , make him and Mildmay shake hands , and say no more about the matter . '' 
`` If I thought , '' replied Mr. Moreton , checking his strides , `` if I thought I should in any way , by this matter , compromise myself ; if I thought Mildmay would look upon my conduct as I do , I 'd stop here , and vote for Duffy White myself , before I would secure my seat by such means . '' 
`` But Mildmay wo n't think about it as you do ! '' 
`` He will receive the challenge , ask to have an explanation made to Hickman -LRB- for Mildmay has never intentionally offended him -RRB- , and you will make Mildmay feel obliged for acting in the matter , and if Hickman ever says any thing offensive , I will , myself , chastise his impertinence . '' 
Moreton hesitated , argued , took a favorable view of the challenge , began to think it was nothing serious after all , a mere whim of Hickman 's , -- that Mildmay would forget it in a few days -- that any thing unpleasant could be reconciled at the dinner which Mr. Moreton proposed to give , to celebrate his election ; and the end was , that Lee left for Beechland , with the understanding that he would prepare a respectful challenge for Hickman , get that gentleman 's name signed to it , bring it out the next day to Mr. Moreton , who would deliver it to Mildmay , and leave it take its course . 
Mildmay was so busy attending to his planting interests , that he had only heard by accident , that there was to be an election , and that Mr. Moreton was the candidate . 
It was his intention therefore , at a stated time , to ride over with Annie to Mr. Moreton 's house , and talk with him on the subject ; he was , therefore , not surprised the next day , when he saw Mr. Moreton coming toward Heritage Place , and supposing the gentleman was upon the business of the canvass , Mildmay met him at the gate , and warmly welcomed him into the house . 
The more Mildmay talked , the more moody became Mr. Moreton ; the interview soon settled down chilly and ceremonious ; at length Mr. Moreton , with evident embarrassment , put his hand in his breast , and taking out a neatly enveloped note , handed it to Mr. Mildmay . 
Graham broke the seal , and read the contents with evident surprise . 
Supposing that his eyes deceived him , he went to the window , and re-read the note , and having assured himself of the contents , he looked at Mr. Moreton , as if to assure himself that that gentleman was the bearer of such a message ; having confirmed himself in all these particulars , he folded up the note , quietly placed it in its envelope , and said : `` Mr. Moreton , I must confess my surprise at receiving a message of this kind , particularly as it is from a man , whom I have no very certain knowledge that I have ever seen . 
Mildmay 's voice and manner relieved Mr. Moreton , for every moment he was losing his self-control , and sinking in his own estimation , for consenting to bear the message at all . 
`` You shall hear from me then , '' said Mildmay quietly , for he determined , from the moment that he comprehended the nature of the note , not to speak an unnecessary word . 
Mildmay , after due reflection upon the challenge , decided that he would not alarm Annie by mentioning the subject to her ; and that he would write an informal note to Mr. Moreton , refusing to accept the challenge , or have any thing to do with Mr. Hickman , whose character and position he had become accidentally acquainted with , through some casual remarks of his neighbor , Mr. Speers . 
The day of the election was also the day for sending the reply , and on the morning of that important event , Mildmay noticed Mr. Moreton 's eldest son approaching his house , and on inquiry , found that the lad was going some distance , to attend a `` precinct , '' a few miles off , where he would remain all day , and bring home the returns of the `` poll '' to his father , in the evening . 
Mildmay congratulated himself upon having such an excellent person to take his rather delicate epistle , and gave it to young Master Moreton , with the request that he would deliver it as directed , on his return at night , -- the lad promised to do so , and continued his journey on the road . 
The fact , however , that Mr. Moreton had condescended to take a challenge from Hickman to Mildmay , was much speculated upon by many quiet , thinking people , who were in their hearts opposed to duelling ; and as they had an opportunity of expressing their indignation through the ballot-box , without incurring any responsibility , Mr. Moreton was therefore quietly deprived of about four votes for every one gained by Hickman 's influence , that , under other circumstances , would have been his . 
He did not , or would not , comprehend the real causes of this disaster , but in accordance with his whole life of neglect of self-control , which had comparatively ruined the usefulness of his otherwise splendid mind , he seemed to be desirous of finding some object on which to vent his spleen , amid which he remembered the note he had received from Mildmay by the hand of his son , but which had heretofore been unread , in the crowding excitements of the hour . 
While engaged in reading the first line in the frank and manly epistle of Mildmay , Col. Lee presented himself . 
Mr. Moreton , without particularly excusing himself , after he saw that Lee was seated , resumed the reading of Mildmay 's note . 
Could Mr. Moreton have received it under other circumstances , -- could his naturally sound judgment have operated a moment upon his mind , he would have sent for Mildmay , and in his natural , if expressed , enthusiasm , hugged him to his heart as a friend and younger brother , -- so cordial , so frank , so manly , was Mildmay 's letter : but such was not to be the case . 
After reading the epistle more than once , and after having several times determined to send for Mildmay , and himself make an explanation of his conduct so far as Hickman was concerned , -- his pride would revolt at making any concession ; he was afraidthat Col. Lee would not approve of such a course ; he remembered how Mildmay had disagreed with him in their last conversation , and without being conscious of it himself , he had adopted the prevailing idea , that Mildmay `` would n't fight : '' so , amid all these conflicting emotions , he turned to Col. Lee , and said , `` Mildmay refuses to meet Hickman . '' 
`` That 's true , '' said Col. Lee , in an authoritative tone , the idea suddenly flashing upon him , that if Moreton challenged Mildmay , he would of course have the arrangement of the preliminaries , which were much more elegant and aristocratic than elections ; and also remembering that Mildmay `` would n't fight , '' he concluded , to play upon Mr. Moreton 's high sense of honor , so as to get that gentleman to take Hickman 's place ; and so well did he succeed , that when he left for Beechland late at night , Mr. Moreton 's disappointment at the result of the election was entirely swallowed up by more vindictive feelings ; and Lee , in his lonely homeward ride , rehearsed to himself the exciting preliminaries of a `` personal meeting , '' in which he was to be the leading second , thereby acquiring for himself additional social and personal glory . 
Lee rode over to Heritage Place with `` the note , '' from Mr. Moreton , Mildmay accidentally met him in the road , near the house ; and the colonel internally congratulated himself upon the fact , as he did not care to be embarrassed in his errand , by the appearance of Mrs. Mildmay . 
Mildmay , in his letter to Mr. Moreton , had assumed the tone of one who had a right to speak , as to a friend ; he clearly expressed the obligations he was under to Mr. Moreton , from the first evening he landed at Heritage Place , up to the moment of his writing . 
Mildmay rode toward his home , with a struggle in his mind that gave him the first intense misery he had ever felt in his life . 
By a train of circumstances over which he had no control , and by the connivance of persons the least expected , he found himself in one of the most difficult positions in which a man of feeling and high sense of self-respect could be placed . 
Mildmay was in the garden of temptation , -- the bitter cup was at his lips ; his moral principles were now to be tested : how ignorant was he up to that moment of his real nature . 
Mr. Moreton would have made friends with Mildmay ; his calm judgment and better feelings dictated that he should , but he was so brave , that he was afraidof Col. Lee 's censure . 
Mildmay cared as little for the good or bad opinion of the people in and about Beechland , as perfectly independent circumstances , superior education , and want of sympathy , could make one ; yet , strange as it may seem , he cowered under the idea of having these same people , for whom he really felt so little respect , condemn him , for doing what he knew to be right , -- to be just , -- to be Christian , -- refuse to take part in a duel ; he therefore wavered , and finally placed his peace of mind , and his life , out of his keeping , -- surrendered to a bloody Moloch , the noble attribute of self-apprecience , and for the time , trembled more from the fear of corrupt man , than he did at the just anger of his God . 
After a long and most painful conversation with Gen. Bledsoe , Mildmay , as he was about retiring , remarked , `` See Mr. Moreton , do every thing proper to have this matter , as it should be , amicably arranged ; if it can not be , I leave all future arrangements in your hands . '' 
Mildmay rose just at the dawn of day , possessed with but one idea , and that was , how he could best account to Annie for his early morning ride . 
Mildmay at the sound pressed the deadly weapon against his heart , and casting his eyes upward , muttered , `` God of Heaven ! 
`` Upon my word , '' said she , with a merry laugh , as her eyes met Mildmay 's , -- `` upon my word , Graham , I shall begin to be jealous of the goddess Diana , if you thus stealaway to her retreats . '' 
Graham breathed more freely , as he found Annie had suggested a reason for his conduct , and quickly replied : `` You know that the deer are early risers , Annie , and if caught at all , it must be while the dew is on the ground . '' 
`` Perhaps so , '' said the young wife , `` perhaps so ; but do you know , Graham , '' placing her arm upon his shoulder , as they walked towards the lawn , `` that I could not have the heart to shoot any thing ; `` even the looks of that poor buck you brought home the other day , made me feel sad , -- its glazed and liquid eyes haunt me even now . '' 
It seemed to Graham that iron hooks had a hold upon his heart , tearing it asunder , and then crushing it with the weight ; but he maintained himself , and replied : `` There is enough of the savage life in us , Annie , in spite of our civilization , to make the sports of the field sometimes agreeable ; I think , perhaps , a dash of the wild man forms a useful alloy for even the noblest natures . '' 
and as the tender-hearted woman , all innocent of the fearful precipice upon which she was standing , asked this question , she looked at Mildmay a world of unutterable love . 
`` I will , Annie , '' said he , determined to fall dead at his wife 's feet before he would betray himself , or awaken by any extraordinary emotion on his part her sensibilities to the awful ordeal through which she , in his person , was about to pass . 
`` And so do , '' said Annie , stepping aside and gathering a white half-blown rose ; and returning to Mildmay , she took a pin from her dress , and fastened the bud to one of the button-holes of his coat , -- `` And so do , '' she repeated , standing back , as if to take in the effect of the flower ; `` and come home soon , for I shall wait breakfast for you , and Clemmy and I will see what good thing we can invent to appease that hunter 's appetite I know you will find in the woods ; '' and kissing Mildmay , she stood transfixed as long as he remained in sight . 
Graham looked back but once , -- waved his hand , and turning away , pressed it against his forehead , and stared wildly into the heavens . 
Who , but the Infinite , could fathom his thoughts ! 
-- who , save the Creator , comprehend the awful struggle in his mind between his moral feelings and the participation of crime , which would violate them all . 
How there came rushing upon him the precepts of peace , that had so often been enforced and illustrated in his early education ; how the form of his Saviour rose in his view , preaching peace and good-will to all mankind ; how Annie 's misery , if he fell : all these things rushed through his brain and heart , yet the spell of the demon of the duello was upon him ; the heathen Ajax defied but the lightning , -- a Christian now invoked the wrath of Almighty God ! 
As Mildmay rode slowly down the road , his faithful body-servant followed in the rear ; and tired of the silence , he took advantage of a favorable opportunity , and said , `` Master , I seed a buck in de old field yesterday ; I think you 'd better turn in de lower bars , and we can pass right by his tracks in comin up where de hands are at work . '' 
`` I 'm not after bucks this morning , nor am I going to the field , '' replied Mildmay , relieved perhaps to hear a voice of sympathy ; and then turning suddenly to the boy , who had come nearly alongside , he inquired , `` Did you ever see a duel ? '' 
`` You will probably see one this morning , '' returned Mildmay , with solemnity ; `` and I charge you , as you value your life , never to speak of it at the Heritage until I tell you . '' 
`` You will learn in due time , '' returned Mildmay ; and in another instant , he caught the sight of Gen. Bledsoe , who , with one or two friends , were leaping their horses over the partially let-down fence , showing that they had reached the place by coming across the fields . 
Graham saluted Gen. Bledsoe and his friends with the carelessness , and yet the studied courtesy , of every-day meetings ; and then riding up to the general , he grasped him firmly by the hand , and by consent the two rode ahead , and side by side . 
`` You are blessed with a fine morning , Mildmay , '' said the general , cheerfully ; `` all yesterday it looked like rain ; and I was very glad to see it come off clear in the west , and give promise of this splendid day . 
And now , '' said the general , taking out his watch , `` it is within a few minutes of the time of meeting , -- did you practise , Mildmay , that hint I gave you about turning your body , without moving your feet ? '' 
`` I did not , '' returned Mildmay , in an emphatic manner . 
`` Why , '' answered Mildmay , `` I came home ignorant of what success I might have had by practice . '' 
Mildmay noticed it , and for the first and only time on that memorable day , did his eyes flash malignant fire ; but he rode on in silence . 
Look how he interfered to save Toadvine from lynching , although the fellow had killed one of his best niggers ; and , besides that , Mildmay said he was willing to trust to the law for redress . 
`` I most certainly do , '' replied the colonel , rising with the other gentlemen to bid the lady good night ; and he continued , in a playful way , `` We shall not be hard upon Mildmay ; if he do n't beg off too much , we will dismiss him with very little ceremony , and leave him to the degradation of his own thoughts . '' 
`` I hope , '' said Beauchamp , with an oath , `` I hope this Mildmay will stand fire , for I should hate to be disappointed , after all the trouble we have had . ' 
`` If he will , '' said Col. Lee , walking pompously up and down , `` if he will , there will be displayed the handsomest piece of finessing on the part of Moreton that ever distinguished an honorable meeting . 
Mildmay will undoubtedly shoot quick , -- he has learnt the habit from deer-hunting ; and by the arrangements of the duello , Moreton will thus draw his fire , and will have time to shoot Mildmay down at his leisure . '' 
and woe to the spectators that are in the way of Mildmay 's bullet , for nobody will be safe except they stand close up to Moreton . '' 
Mr. Moreton and his friends were already upon the ground , when Mildmay and Gen. Bledsoe came in sight . 
said Gen. Bledsoe to Mildmay -- `` I am sure that this was not Mr. Moreton 's suggestion ; that gentleman has been badly advised . '' 
In a moment more the viands were dispensed with , and Mr. Moreton 's party shook hands with Gen. Bledsoe and Mildmay as cordially as if they had met at a picnic , instead of a hostile meeting . 
Mildmay went through this part of the ceremony with coldness ; he was not yet perfect master of his feelings ; dissembling was still difficult . 
While considerable discussion was going on in subdued tones , between the seconds , Mildmay had , entirely alone , seated himself on a limb of a fallen tree ; Mr. Moreton , on the contrary , was surrounded by a number of young men , who seemed to be very full of suppressed humor , for it seemed that , if it were proper , they would be entirely overcome with some excellent joke . 
As Mildmay sat by himself , Governor , who had not been upon the ground more than a moment before he comprehended the purpose of the assembling , and who was filled with alarm , came near , and stood behind his master -- an affecting statue of sorrowful interest , willing , could the sacrifice have been made , to give up his life to save his protector and friend . 
In the course of a few moments Gen. Bledsoe walked up to Mildmay , and announced to him , that the preliminaries were arranged . 
`` General , '' said Mildmay , in reply , `` your kindness to me on this occasion will ever be remembered with gratitude . 
Mildmay continued : `` I this morning make a sacrifice to public opinion , that , whatever may be the result , will be reflected upon by me , with sorrow , even to my grave . 
`` Mr. Mildmay , '' said the general , with perceptible sternness , and some undisguised feeling of disdain in his face , `` I have already assured you , over my own signature , that every proposition for peace has been almost rudely rejected ; and I will add , that in respect to your feelings , I have almost compromised myself -- and you , perhaps , by my active zeal to bring about a peaceful reconciliation . '' 
returned Graham . 
Mr. Moreton and Mildmay , after again ceremoniously shaking hands , at once took their appointed places , at twenty paces apart . 
Mildmay , on the contrary , had evidently not yet reached perfect maturity . 
His face was noble , and full of deep , abiding , solemn thought ; it was painfully interesting , to see so much responsibility marked upon so young a brow As he rose to his full height , he was certainly as perfect a specimen of manly beauty , as was ever seen . 
Gen. Bledsoe , who , from the moment when he first saw Mildmay , had conceived a high idea of his qualities in every respect ; when he came upon the ground , became so solicitous that Mildmay should sustain himself by the most approved bearing , that he unconsciously became affected with the sentiments of Mr. Moreton 's friends , and feared that , possibly , Mildmay might at the critical moment , `` compromise himself , '' and this feeling was somewhat confirmed by Mildmay 's just reiterated desire to know `` if every amicable proposition had been rejected ? '' 
The principals were at their places , their weapons in their hands -- when Gen. Bledsoe , his face full of deep sympathy , walked close up to Mildmay , and whispered in his ear : `` Mildmay , if there be a doubtin your mind , about your firmness on this occasion , if your conscientious scruples overcome your courage , let me take your place . 
said Mildmay , with impassioned energy . 
continued he , in a calmer tone , `` I will not forget mine . 
`` Now Mildmay , my boy ! '' 
Mildmay looked down , and there , in all its innocent loveliness , was Annie 's last tribute of affection , still fresh in the morning dews ; the young husband plucked it from its place , and thrusting it into his breast , so that it rested upon his heart , he turned to his second , and with a firm voice said : `` I am ready . '' 
Col. Lee , who had the ordering of the preliminaries , the moment he heard Mildmay 's remark , with professional solemnity asked : `` Gentlemen , are you ready ? '' 
At this instant , Mildmay , who was standing with his musket resting in the hollow of his left arm , to the astonishment of all present , dropped the butt upon the ground and said : `` Col. Lee , I desire some information . '' 
Gen. Bledsoe , who was now of course compelled to be a silent spectator , felt a sickness come over him , when Mildmay appeared thus so unnecessarily to interrupt the proceedings , while a look of sarcastic significance passed between Moreton 's friends , Beauchamp whispering , `` Mildmay 's going to faint . '' 
`` Do I understand aright , Col. Lee , '' said Mildmay , with an affectedly slow emphasis , `` that I can fire at any time between the counts of ` one -- two -- three . ' '' 
answered Col. Lee , waving his hand with authority . 
Upon hearing which , Mildmay very slowly stooped down , and pinching up some dry dust between the thumb and fore-finger of his right hand , -- without speaking , signified that he understood the arrangement , and instantly assumed his proper position . 
Gen. Bledsoe , whose confidence in Mildmay 's firmness had been so terribly shaken , by what appeared to be his ill-opportuned interruption ; instantly caught the deep intent of Mildmay 's question , and the reason of his apparent desire to fortify his finger against the possibility of slipping on the trigger ; it flashed upon him , like lightning , that it was all to derange Moreton 's calculations about Mildmay 's making a quick fire , and Gen. Bledsoe , whose heart , a moment before , was near collapsing with fear ; with a thrill of admiration , could now with difficulty restrain himself from falling on Mildmay 's neck , and bursting into tears Both Moreton and Mildmay now seemed conscious that the instant of action had arrived , for they simultaneously and courteously raised their weapons , as if `` presenting arms . '' 
Then said Col. Lee : `` Gentlemen , -- FIRE -- one -- '' The numeral had hardly escaped the lips of Lee , before the crashing sound of Mildmay 's musket echoed far and wide , and Moreton , with his weapon undischarged , sprang perpendicularly in the air , and then fell lumbering to the earth ; for an instant , his body trembled like an aspen leaf ; he essayed to raise himself , and amid gurgling sounds , could be faintly distinguished the words , `` My wife -- my children ! '' 
Mildmay , still standing in his place , gazed sadly at the group now kneeling about the lifeless form of the once splendid Mr. Moreton ; and then , handing his weapon to Governor , who could scarce conceal his exultation at the result , he mechanically moved toward his horse . 
But ere he reached his place of destination , Gen. Bledsoe , who had instinctively rushed toward the dying man , now turned to Mildmay ; and seizing him by the hand , he shook it convulsively , and looking him affectionately in the face , said : Mildmay , thank God youare safe , and you have , this day , added lustre to the bearing of a gentleman . '' 
Mildmay listened to these strangely sounding congratulations , as if he were in a dream , but rallying his thoughts , he bade all present a general adieu ; mounted his horse , and closely followed by Governor , slowly rode away . 
said Beauchamp , the moment Mildmay was out of hearing . 
`` Oh , I am sure nothing serious has happened to Moreton , '' she soliloquized ; `` did not Colonel Lee tell me that Mildmay ` would n't fight , ' and did not all my husband 's friends assure me that there was no danger ? 
The fact is , that Mildmay deceived us by his looks ; he was evidently much misrepresented : we had better see Mrs. Marbury -LRB- Aunt Margaret -RRB- , and make arrangements for calling in a physician , and such friends as the family may desire . '' 
Without seeming to notice any one , she strode a few paces , and in a plaintive voice , said : `` Mildmay begged for peace , God help him ! 
-- Mildmay begged for peace , -- here 's his very words ! '' 
-- me , Aunt Margaret , who have been robbed of the best of husbands , and that too , by villains , and fiends , who conspired against his life , and who have accomplished , by the hands of another , what they dared not have done themselves ? '' 
You told me , as you told him , that Mildmay would not fight -- you lied -- upon your souls , you knew you lied ! '' 
Onreaching home , Mildmay threw the bridle rein upon his horse 's neck , and entered the lawn ; Ponce de Leon had , as usual , watched his coming from a distance , and with one of his vast leaps , was about fawning upon his master , when he discovered something in Mildmay 's eye , that made him shrink back , and whine with terror -- on Mildmay strode , as if some fiend were in pursuit , and treading heavily as he walked into the house , he placed his gun upon its accustomed hooks , and presented himself in the breakfast room . 
At the table sat Annie , evidently awaiting his coming , but , as she looked up and saw Graham , she uttered an exclamation of surprise , and then seemed petrified into a statue of alarm . 
Annie still stared , her face working with strange and terrible emotion , while her eyes , to herself , seemed untrue in their vision , and bowing her head , she sighed -- ` I do know your walk , Graham ! '' 
answered Graham , with a sneer , and then he literally snarled through his teeth , `` the ears of love grow dull by time . '' 
`` Graham ! '' 
exclaimed Annie , and turning deadly pale , and rising straight up from her seat , she fell toward him , as stiff and cold as if she had been marble . 
Graham caught the insensible form of his wife , and held it as firmly , and remorselessly as if it were really an inanimate thing . 
Glaring down upon the closed eyes and pale face of the beautiful and innocent Annie , he tried to recollect what was his relation to the being he held in his arms ; he had , for the moment , no distinct idea of the relation of wife ; wandering , to him an age , in the undefined regions of horrid uncertainty , he first remembered his early associations in Malden ; and by degrees , and slow and painful progress , he traced his acquaintance with Annie , through courtship and marriage -- and carefully connecting the incidents , the truth finally dawned upon him who she really was ; and for the relief of his breaking heart , scalding tears ran streaming from his eyes . 
His mind once enlightened , he bore Annie to a couch , and the intense solicitude he felt lest the vital spark had fled , was a temporary relief from the tenfold more terrible burden that crushed his heart . 
The moment that she was left to herself , the currents of life slowly returned to their channels ; she sighed and moaned as one waking from a deep and almost fatal sleep ; and at last , with her eyes still closed , she reached out her hands , and ejaculated : `` Mother , where 's Graham ? '' 
`` Here I am , '' he answered , leaning over her prostrate form . 
`` And is this truly my Graham ? '' 
`` Annie , '' said Mildmay , supporting her in his arms , `` since we last parted , I have passed through dangers which you can not comprehend ; I have been tempted by the evil one , and have fallen a victim . 
I have those about me who have sought to destroy not only my life , but my honor ; '' and here Mildmay became too choked for utterance . 
Do you not love me , Graham ? 
`` Annie , '' said Graham , his face resuming some of its natural expression , -- `` Annie , a cloud has settled upon us ; the peace of our once happy home is destroyed for ever ! 
There passed through her mind a thousand things before unnoticed , which , when considered together , led her to the correct result ; and throwing her arms about Mildmay 's neck , she wept and sobbed like a child . 
It was while Annie was thus pouring out her feelings upon Mildmay 's breast , that her form seemed again to melt in unity with his own ; the consciousness of the possession of her unwavering love returned to him as a dim star glimmering in a dark and stormy sky , -- and as she looked up in his face , he pressed one long and earnest kiss of redemption upon her brow . 
Neither Annie nor Graham ever alluded to the cause of all this sorrow . 
The duel became a matter of newspaper notoriety ; `` public opinion , '' which would have been foremost in denouncing Mildmay if he had obeyed the reasonings of his own conscience , and `` refused to fight , '' was now poured out in news-paragraphical sympathy for the deceased , -- for the `` fatherless children , '' -- for the `` widowed and afflicted mother : '' and as these statements and reflections spread , they became exaggerated , and rolled back from the distance in a dark cloud of condemnation on duelling , and on the head of `` the monster Graham Mildmay , '' who was finally represented as `` a desperado of the Southwest , seeking by every means in his power , to imbrue his hands in human blood . '' 
It was these things that continually gave activity to the misery that rested upon the inmates of Heritage Place , and destroyed in the minds of Graham and Annie the little consolation that would have arisen in the thought that their sorrows were confined to their own domestic circle , and sanctified by the privacy of their own hearts . 
Her intense desire to soothe Graham under his misfortunes rendered her blind to her own declining strength ; and when Graham became conscious that she was , and had been , perhaps , a long time sinking under her weight of sorrow , a new cause of alarm thrilled his soul . 
The subject once broached by Graham , the language of sympathy broke Annie 's silence regarding herself , and she acknowledged that she felt that she had not long to live ; yet there was no perceptible , or defined sickness . 
Graham now in turn became the sympathizing nurse , and found absolute relief in his anxiety and attentions to Annie , from the more terrible feelings of remorse that still haunted his heart . 
`` Time , '' he would say , taking Annie 's attenuated hand in his own -- `` Time , my Annie , will assauge these regrets ; we are young , and we will outlive the first blow of this terrible affliction that has come upon us : we will know how to enjoy the blessings of the future by the severe lesson we have had of the past . 
Annie would smile , -- would look full of hope , but if Graham could have been restored to that sensitiveness of love that possessed his heart in the `` olden times , '' he would have perceived that Annie Hastings was quietly , but sweetly passing away ; she felt it -- knew it : her only consolation was , that she should breathe her last in Graham 's arms , and blessing his affection , lead the way to Heaven . 
Still Annie pursued her simple occupations , and sometimes made even Graham 's saddened face light up with a smile at her unusual interest in some trivial occupation , which showed , that she still remembered tastes and preferences which he had formerly expressed . 
From the moment that she bestowed her last look of affection upon her husband , and raised her last prayer that Heaven would bless him , Graham seemed to be as one stunned beyond recovery . 
Throughout all the affecting preliminaries , he passively obeyed the suggestions of Gen. Bledsoe , and submitted , without remark , to whatever was done by the kind-hearted ladies of the neighborhood , who volunteered their attentions by the bed of sickness , and in the chamber of death . 
Graham sat hour after hour upon the now , to him , deserted gallery . 
His servants moved noiselessly about , and dared not disturb his hopeless sorrow . 
Toward the close of day , Governor -LRB- since the duel more than ever cherished for his faithful service -RRB- handed his master a large number of letters and papers , which were listlessly received , and then , unnoticed , cast aside . 
The sun that had for some moments been struggling upon the horizon , and in flickering gleams illuminated the landscape , now rapidly disappeared ; and as there is no twilight in a Southern sky , the thick darkness of a starless night enshrouded the form of Graham Mildmay . 
