Have ye clapped eye on Captain Ahab ? '' 
`` Who is Captain Ahab , sir ? '' 
Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship . '' 
Clap eye on Captain Ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he has only one leg . '' 
Turning back I accosted Captain Peleg , inquiring where Captain Ahab was to be found . 
`` And what dost thou want of Captain Ahab ? 
He 's a queer man , Captain Ahab -- so some think -- but a good one . 
He 's a grand , ungodly , god-like man , Captain Ahab ; does n't speak much ; but , when he does speak , then you may well listen . 
Mark ye , be forewarned ; Ahab 's above the common ; Ahab 's been in colleges , as well as ` mong the cannibals ; been used to deeper wonders than the waves ; fixed his fiery lauce in mightier , stranger foes than whales . 
he ai n't Captain Bildad ; no , and he ai n't Captain Peleg ; he 's Ahab , boy ; and Ahab of old , thou knowest , was a crowned king ! '' 
Captain Ahab did not name himself . 
I know Captain Ahab well ; I 've sailed with him as mate years ago ; I know what he is -- a good man -- not a pious , good man , like Bildad , but a swearing good man -- something like me -- only there 's a good deal more of him . 
So good-bye to thee -- and wrong not Captain Ahab , because he happens to have a wicked name . 
Think of that ; by that sweet girl that old man has a child : hold ye then there can be any utter , hopeless harm in Ahab ? 
No , no , my lad ; stricken , blasted , if he be , Ahab has his humanities ! '' 
As I walked away , I was full of thoughtfulness ; what had been incidentally revealed to me of Captain Ahab , filled me with a certain wild vagueness of painfulness concerning him . 
However , my thoughts were at length carried in other directions , so that for the present dark Ahab slipped my mind . 
Tell me , when this same Pequod here had her three masts overboard in that typhoon on Japan , that same voyage when thou went mate with Captain Ahab , did ` st thou not think of Death and the Judgment then ? '' 
Life was what Captain Ahab and I was thinking of ; and how to save all hands -- how to rig jury-masts -- how to get into the nearest port ; that was what I was thinking of . '' 
`` Captain Ahab . '' 
`` Look ye ; when captain Ahab is all right , then this left arm of mine will be all right ; not before . '' 
Step and growl ; growl and go -- that 's the word with Captain Ahab . 
But if you are speaking of Captain Ahab , of that ship there , the Pequod , then let me tell you , that I know all about the loss of his leg . '' 
This circumstance , coupled with his ambiguous , half-hinting , half-revealing , shrouded sort of talk , now begat in me all kinds of vague wonderments and half-apprehensions , and all connected with the Pequod ; and Captain Ahab ; and the leg he had lost ; and the Cape Horn fit ; and the silver calabash ; and what Captain Peleg had said of him , when I left the ship the day previous ; and the prediction of the squaw Tistig ; and the voyage we had bound ourselves to sail ; and a hundred other shadowy things . 
During these days of preparation , Queequeg and I often visited the craft , and as often I asked about Captain Ahab , and how he was , and when he was going to come on board his ship . 
-- Ahab ? '' 
I was going to ask him some further questions concerning Ahab , when we heard a noise on deck . 
Meanwhile Captain Ahab remained invisibly enshrined within his cabin . 
Captain Ahab is all ready -- just spoke to him -- nothing more to be got from shore , eh ? 
And , as for Captain Ahab , no sign of him was yet to be seen ; only , they said he was in the cabin . 
Indeed , as that was not at all his proper business , but the pilot 's ; and as he was not yet completely recovered -- so they said -- therefore , Captain Ahab stayed below . 
`` I hope ye 'll have fine weather now , so that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye -- a pleasant sun is all he needs , and ye 'll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go . 
In that grand order of battle in which Captain Ahab would probably marshal his forces to descend on the whales , these three headsmen were as captains of companies . 
An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles of the sea , and all the ends of the earth , accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay the world 's grievances before that bar from which not very many of them ever come back . 
Forseveral days after leaving Nantucket , nothing above hatches was seen of Captain Ahab . 
Reality outran apprehension ; Captain Ahab stood upon his quarter-deck . 
But once Tashtego 's senior , an old Gay-Head Indian among the crew , superstitiously asserted that not till he was full forty years old did Ahab become that way branded , and then it came upon him , not in the fury of any mortal fray , but in an elemental strife at sea . 
Yet , this wild hint seemed inferentially negatived , by what a grey Manxman insinuated , an old sepulchral man , who , having never before sailed out of Nantucket , had never ere this laid eye upon wild Ahab . 
So that no white sailor seriously contradicted him when he said that if ever Captain Ahab should be tranquilly laid out -- which might hardly come to pass , so he muttered -- then , whoever should do that last office for the dead , would find a birth-mark on him from crown to sole . 
So powerfully did the whole grim aspect of Ahab affect me , and the livid brand which streaked it , that for the first few moments I hardly noted that not a little of this overbearing grimness was owing to the barbaric white leg upon which he partly stood . 
His bone leg steadied in that hole ; one arm elevated , and holding by a shroud ; Captain Ahab stood erect , looking straight out beyond the ship 's ever-pitching prow . 
And not only that , but moody stricken Ahab stood before them with a crucifixion in his face ; in all the nameless regal overbearing dignity of some mighty woe . 
But the Pequod was only making a passage now ; not regularly cruising ; nearly all whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to , so that there was little or nothing , out of himself , to employ or excite Ahab , now ; and thus chase away , for that one interval , the clouds that layer upon layer were piled upon his brow , as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon . 
For , as when the red-cheeked , dancing girls , April and May , trip home to the wintry , misanthropic woods ; even the barest , ruggedest , most thunder-cloven old oak will at least send forth some few green sprouts , to welcome such glad-hearted visitants ; so Ahab did , in the end , a little respond to the playful allurings of that girlish air . 
And all these subtle agencies , more and more they wrought on Ahab 's texture . 
It was so with Ahab ; only that now , of late , he seemed so much to live in the open air , that truly speaking , his visits were more to the cabin , than from the cabin to the planks . 
But once , the mood was on him too deep for common regardings ; and as with heavy , lumber-like pace he was measuring the ship from taffrail to mainmast , Stubb , the odd second mate , came up from below , and with a certain unassured , deprecating humorousness , hinted that if Captain Ahab was pleased to walk the planks , then , no one could say nay ; but there might be some way of muffling the noise ; hinting something indistinctly and hesitatingly about a globe of tow , and the insertion into it , of the ivory heel . 
Stubb , thou did ` st not know Ahab then . 
`` Am I a cannon-ball , Stubb , '' said Ahab , `` that thou wouldst wad me that fashion ? 
gritted Ahab between his set teeth , and violently moving away , as if to avoid some passionate temptation . 
As he said this , Ahab advanced upon him with such overbearing terrors in his aspect , that Stubb involuntarily retreated . 
WhenStubb had departed , Ahab stood for a while leaning over the bulwarks ; and then , as had been usual with him of late , calling a sailor of the watch , he sent him below for his ivory stool , and also his pipe . 
How could one look at Ahab then , seated on that tripod of bones , without bethinking him of the royalty it symbolized ? 
For a Khan of the plank , and a king of the sea , and a great lord of Leviathans was Ahab . 
With slouched hat , Ahab lurchingly paced the planks . 
Ahab seemed a pyramid , and I , like a blazing fool , kept kicking at it . 
But what was still more curious , Flask -- you know how curious all dreams are -- through all this rage that I was in , I somehow seemed to be thinking to myself , that after all , it was not much of an insult , that kick from Ahab . 
Captain Ahab kicked ye , did n't he ? ' 
In old England the greatest lords think it great glory to be slapped by a queen , and made garter-knights of ; but be yourboast , Stubb , that ye were kicked by old Ahab , and made a wise man of . 
D'ye see Ahab standing there , sideways looking over the stern ? 
Ahab has that that 's bloody on his mind . 
And though of all men the moody captain of the Pequod was the least given to that sort of shallowest assumption ; and though the only homage he ever exacted , was implicit , instantaneous obedience ; though he required no man to remove the shoes from his feet ere stepping upon the quarter-deck ; and though there were times when , owing to peculiar circumstances connected with events hereafter to be detailed , he addressed them in unusual terms , whether of condescension or in terrorem , or otherwise ; yet even Captain Ahab was by no means unobservant of the paramount forms and usages of the sea . 
But Ahab , my Captain , still moves before me in all his Nantucket grimness and shagginess ; and in this episode touching Emperors and Kings , I must not conceal that I have only to do with a poor old whale-hunter like him ; and , therefore , all outward majestical trappings and housings are denied me . 
Oh , Ahab ! 
From his complete inattention to the tidings , you would think that moody Ahab had not heard his menial . 
But ere stepping into the cabin doorway below , he pauses , ships a new face altogether , and , then , independent , hilarious little Flask enters King Ahab 's presence , in the character of Abjectus , or the Slave . 
Over his ivory-inlaid table , Ahab presided like a mute , maned sea-lion on the white coral beach , surrounded by his warlike but still deferential cubs . 
They were as little children before Ahab ; and yet , in Ahab , there seemed not to lurk the smallest social arrogance . 
And when reaching out his knife and fork , between which the slice of beef was locked , Ahab thereby motioned Starbuck 's plate towards him , the mate received his meat as though receiving alms ; and cut it tenderly ; and a little started if , perchance , the knife grazed against the plate ; and chewed it noiselessly ; and swallowed it , not without circumspection . 
For , like the Coronation banquet at Frankfort , where the German Emperor profoundly dines with the seven Imperial Electors , so these cabin meals were somehow solemn meals , eaten in awful silence ; and yet at table old Ahab forbade not conversation ; only he himself was dumb . 
Had he helped himself at that table , doubtless , never more would he have been able to hold his head up in this honest world ; nevertheless , strange to say , Ahab never forbade him . 
And had Flask helped himself , the chances were Ahab had never so much as noticed it . 
Besides , if it were so that any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask 's official capacity , all that sailor had to do , in order to obtain ample vengeance , was to go aft at dinner-time , and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky-light , sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab . 
Now , Ahab and his three mates formed what may be called the first table in the Pequod 's cabin . 
And what with the standing spectacle of the black terrific Ahab , and the periodical tumultuous visitations of these three savages , Dough-Boy 's whole life was one continual lip-quiver . 
In this one matter , Ahab seemed no exception to most American whale captains , who , as a set , rather incline to the opinion that by rights the ship 's cabin belongs to them ; and that it is by courtesy alone that anybody else is , at any time , permitted there . 
Nor did they lose much hereby ; in the cabin was no companionship ; socially , Ahab was inaccessible . 
And as when p642-200 Spring and Summer had departed , that wild Logan of the woods , burying himself in the hollow of a tree , lived out the winter there , sucking his own paws ; so , in his inclement , howling old age , Ahab 's soul , shut up in the caved trunk of his body , there fed upon the sullen paws of its gloom ! 
-LRB- Enter Ahab : Then , all . -RRB- 
Itwas not a great while after the affair of the pipe , that one morning shortly after breakfast , Ahab , as was his wont , ascended the cabin-gangway to the deck . 
And , so full of his thought was Ahab , that at every uniform turn that he made , now at the main-mast and now at the binnacle , you could almost see that thought turn in him as he turned , and pace in him as he paced ; so completely possessing him , indeed , that it all but seemed the inward mould of every outer movement . 
The hours wore on ; -- Ahab now shut up within his cabin ; anon , pacing the deck , with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect . 
`` Send everybody aft , '' repeated Ahab . 
When the entire ship 's company were assembled , and with curious and not wholly unapprehensive faces , were eyeing him , for he looked not unlike the weather horizon when a storm is coming up , Ahab , after rapidly glancing over the bulwarks , and then darting his eyes among the crew , started from his stand-point ; and as though not a soul were nigh him resumed his heavy turns upon the deck . 
With bent head and half-slouched hat he continued to pace , unmindful of the wondering whispering among the men ; till Stubb cautiously whispered to Flask , that Ahab must have summoned them there for the purpose of witnessing a pedestrian feat . 
cried Ahab , with a wild approval in his tones ; observing the hearty animation into which his unexpected question had so magnetically thrown them . 
But , they were all eagerness again , as Ahab , now half-revolving in his pivot-hole , with one hand reaching high up a shroud , and tightly , almost convulsively grasping it , addressed them thus : -- `` All ye mast-headers have before now heard me give orders about a white whale . 
While the mate was getting the hammer , Ahab , without speaking , was slowly rubbing the gold piece against the skirts of his jacket , as if to heighten its lustre , and without using any words was meanwhile lowly humming to himself , producing a sound so strangely muffled and inarticulate that it seemed the mechanical humming of the wheels of his vitality in him . 
`` It 's a white whale , I say , '' resumed Ahab , as he threw down the top-maul ; `` a white whale . 
`` Captain Ahab , '' said Tashtego , `` that white whale must be the same that some call Moby Dick . '' 
shouted Ahab . 
`` And has he a curious spout , too , '' said Daggoo , `` very bushy , even for a parmacetty , and mighty quick , Captain Ahab ? '' 
cried Ahab , `` aye , Queequeg , the harpoons lie all twisted and wrenched in him ; aye , Daggoo , his spout is a big one , like a whole shock of wheat , and white as a pile of our Nantucket wool after the great annual sheep-shearing ; aye , Tashtego , and he fan-tails like a split jib in a squall . 
`` Captain Ahab , '' said Starbuck , who , with Stubb and Flask , had thus far been eyeing his superior with increasing surprise , but at last seemed struck with a thought which somewhat explained all the wonder . 
`` Captain Ahab , I have heard of Moby Dick -- but it was not Moby Dick that took off thy leg ? '' 
cried Ahab ; then pausing , `` Aye , Starbuck ; aye , my hearties all round ; it was Moby Dick that dismasted me ; Moby Dick that brought me to this dead stump I stand on now . 
`` I am game for his crooked jaw , and for the jaws of Death too , Captain Ahab , if it fairly comes in the way of the business we follow ; but I came here to hunt whales , not my commander 's vengeance . 
How many barrels will thy vengeance yield thee even if thou gettest it , Captain Ahab ? 
To be enraged with a dumb thing , Captain Ahab , seems blasphemous . '' 
Are they not one and all with Ahab , in this matter of the whale ? 
But in his joy at the enchanted , tacit acquiescence of the mate , Ahab did not hear his foreboding invocation ; nor yet the low laugh from the hold ; nor yet the presaging vibrations of the winds in the cordage ; nor yet the hollow flap of the sails against the masts , as for a moment their hearts sank in . 
cried Ahab . 
cried Ahab ; `` but , maybe , 't is well . 
Once p642-216 more , and finally , the replenished pewter went the rounds among the frantic crew ; when , waving his free hand to them , they all dispersed ; and Ahab retired within his cabin . 
The cabin ; by the stern windows ; Ahab sitting alone , and gazing out . 
Come , Ahab 's compliments to ye ; come and see if ye can swerve me . 
Foremost through the sparkling sea shoots on the gay , embattled , bantering bow , but only to drag dark Ahab after it , where he broods within his sternward cabin , builded over the dead water of the wake , and further on , hunted by its wolfish gurglings . 
I heard old Ahab tell him he must always kill a squall , something as they burst a water-spout with a pistol -- fire your ship right into it ! 
A wild , mystical , sympathetical feeling was in me ; Ahab 's quenchless feud seemed mine . 
In that way , mostly , the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded . 
That captain was Ahab . 
And then it was that suddenly sweeping his sickle-shaped lower jaw beneath him , Moby Dick had reaped away Ahab 's leg , as a mower a blade of grass in the field . 
Small reason was there to doubt , then , that ever since that almost fatal encounter , Ahab had cherished a wild vindictiveness against the whale , all the more fell for that in his frantic morbidness he at last came to identify with him , not only all his bodily woes , but all his intellectual and spiritual exasperations . 
That intangible malignity which has been from the beginning ; to whose dominion even the modern Christians ascribe one-half of the worlds ; which the ancient Ophites of the east reverenced in their statue devil ; -- Ahab did not fall down and worship it like them ; but deliriously transferring its idea to the abhorred white whale , he pitted himself , all mutilated , against it . 
All that most maddens and torments ; all that stirs up the lees of things ; all truth with malice in it ; all that cracks the sinews and cakes the brain ; all the subtle demonisms of life and thought ; all evil , to crazy Ahab , were visibly personified , and made practically assailable in Moby Dick . 
Yet , when by this collision forced to turn towards home , and for long months of days and weeks , Ahab and anguish lay stretched together in one hammock , rounding in mid winter that dreary , howling Patagonian Cape ; then it was , that his torn body and gashed soul bled into one another ; and so interfusing made him mad . 
And , when running into more sufferable latitudes , the ship , with mild stun ` sails spread , floated across the tranquil tropics , and , to all appearances , the old man 's delirium seemed left behind him with the Cape Horn swells , and he came forth from his dark den into the blessed light and air ; even then , when he bore that firm , collected front , however pale , and issued his calm orders once again ; and his mates thanked God the direful madness was now gone ; even then , Ahab , in his hidden self , raved on . 
Ahab 's full lunacy subsided not , but deepeningly contracted ; like the unabated Hudson , when that noble Northman flows narrowly , but unfathomably through the Highland gorge . 
But , as in his narrow-flowing monomania , not one jot of Ahab 's broad madness had been left behind ; so in that broad madness , not one jot of his great natural intellect had perished . 
If such a furious trope may stand , his special lunacy stormed his general sanity , and carried it , and turned all its concentred cannon upon its own mad mark ; so that far from having lost his strength , Ahab , to that one end , did now possess a thousand fold more potency than ever he had sanely brought to bear upon any one reasonable object . 
This is much ; yet Ahab 's larger , darker , deeper part remains unhinted . 
Now , in his heart , Ahab had some glimpse of this , namely : all my means are sane , my motive and my object mad . 
But be all this as it may , certain it is , that with the mad secret of his unabated rage bolted up and keyed in him , Ahab had purposely sailed upon the present voyage with the one only and all-engrossing object of hunting the White Whale . 
Whatthe white whale was to Ahab , has been hinted ; what , at times , he was to me , as yet remains unsaid . 
Hadyou followed Captain Ahab down into his cabin after the squall that took place on the night succeeding that wild ratification of his purpose with his crew , you would have seen him go to a locker in the transom , and bringing out a large wrinkled roll of yellowish sea charts , spread them before him on his screwed-down table . 
But it was not this night in particular that , in the solitude of his cabin , Ahab thus pondered over his charts . 
For with the charts of all four oceans before him , Ahab was threading a maze of currents and eddies , with a view to the more certain accomplishment of that monomaniac thought of his soul . 
But not so did it seem to Ahab , who knew the sets of all tides and currents ; and thereby calculating the driftings of the sperm whale 's food ; and , also , calling to mind the regular , ascertained seasons for hunting him in particular latitudes ; could arrive at reasonable surmises , almost approaching to certainties , concerning the timeliest day to be upon this or that ground in search of his prey . 
And hence not only at substantiated times , upon well known separate feeding-grounds , could Ahab hope to encounter his prey ; but incrossing the widest expanses of water between those grounds he could , by his art , so place and time himself on his way , as even then not to be wholly without prospect of a meeting . 
And where Ahab 's chances of accomplishing his object have hitherto been spoken of , allusion has only been made to whatever way-side , antecedent , extra prospects were his , ere a particular set time or place were attained , when all possibilities would become probabilities , and , as Ahab fondly thought , every possibility the next thing to a certainty . 
But in the cautious comprehensiveness and unloitering vigilance with which Ahab threw his brooding soul into this unfaltering hunt , he would not permit himself to rest all his hopes upon the one crowning fact above mentioned , however flattering it might be to those hopes ; nor in the sleeplessness of his vow could he so tranquillize his unquiet heart as to postpone all intervening quest . 
Yet the premature hour of the Pequod 's sailing had , perhaps , been correctly selected by Ahab , with a view to this very complexion of things . 
And have I not tallied the whale , Ahab would mutter to himself , as after poring over his charts till long after midnight he would throw himself back in reveries -- tallied him , and shall he escape ? 
Often , when forced from his hammock by exhausting and intolerably vivid dreams of the night , which , resuming his own intense thoughts through the day , carried them on amid a clashing of phrensies , and whirled them round and round in his blazing brain , till the very throbbing of his life-spot became insufferable anguish ; and when , as was sometimes the case , these spiritual throes in him heaved his being up from its base , and a chasm seemed opening in him , from which forked flames and lightnings shot up , and accursed fiends beckoned him to leap down among them ; when this hell in himself yawned beneath him , a wild cry would be heard through the ship ; and with glaring eyes Ahab would burst from his state room , as though escaping from a bed that was on fire . 
For , at such times , crazy Ahab , the scheming , unappeasedly steadfast hunter of the white whale ; this Ahab p642-255 that had gone to his hammock , was not the agent that so caused him to burst from it in horror again . 
But as the mind does not exist unless leagued with the soul , therefore it must have been that , in Ahab 's case , yielding up all his thoughts and fancies to his one supreme purpose ; that purpose , by its own sheer inveteracy of will , forced itself against gods and devils into a kind of self-assumed , independent being of its own . 
Therefore , the tormented spirit that glared out of bodily eyes , when what seemed Ahab rushed from his room , was for the time but a vacated thing , a formless somnambulistic being , a ray of living light , to be sure , but without an object to color , and therefore a blankness in itself . 
Though , consumed with the hot fire of his purpose , Ahab in all his thoughts and actions ever had in view the ultimate capture of Moby Dick ; though he seemed ready to sacrifice all mortal interests to that one passion ; nevertheless it may have been that he was by nature and long habituation far too wedded to a fiery whaleman 's ways , altogether to abandon the collateral prosecution of the voyage . 
To accomplish his object Ahab must use tools ; and of all tools used in the shadow of the moon , men are most apt to get out of order . 
Starbuck 's body and Starbuck 's coerced will were Ahab 's , so long as Ahab kept his magnet at Starbuck 's brain ; still he knew that for all this the chief mate , in his soul , abhorred his captain 's quest , and could he , would joyfully disintegrate himself from it , or even frustrate it . 
Not only that , but the subtle insanity of Ahab respecting Moby Dick was noways more significantly manifested than in his superlative sense and shrewdness in foreseeing that , for the present , the hunt should in some way be stripped of that strange imaginative impiousness which naturally invested it ; that the full terror of the voyage must be kept withdrawn into the obscure background -LRB- for few men 's courage is proof against protracted meditation unrelieved by action -RRB- ; that when they stood their long night watches , his officers and men must have some nearer things to think of than Moby Dick . 
Nor was Ahab unmindful of another thing . 
The permanent constitutional condition of the manufactured man , thought Ahab , is sordidness . 
I will not strip these men , thought Ahab , of all hopes of cash -- aye , cash . 
They may scorn cash now ; but let some months go by , p642-268 and no perspective promise of it to them , and then this same quiescent cash all at once mutinying in them , this same cash would soon cashier Ahab . 
Nor was there wanting still another precautionary motive more related to Ahab personally . 
Having impulsively , it is probable , and perhaps somewhat prematurely revealed the prime but private purpose of the Pequod 's voyage , Ahab was now entirely conscious that , in so doing , he had indirectly laid himself open to the unanswerable charge of usurpation ; and with perfect impunity , both moral and legal , his crew if so disposed , and to that end competent , could refuse all further obedience to him , and even violently wrest from him the command . 
From even the barely hinted imputation of usurpation , and the possible consequences of such a suppressed impression gaining ground , Ahab must of course have been most anxious to protect himself . 
That protection could only consist in his own predominating brain and heart and hand , backed by a heedful , closely calculating attention to every minute atmospheric influence which it was possible for his crew to be subjected to . 
For all these reasons then , and others perhaps too analytic to be verbally developed here , Ahab plainly saw that he must still in a good degree continue true to the natural , nominal purpose of the Pequod 's voyage ; observe all customary usages ; and not only that , but force himself to evince all his well known passionate interest in the general pursuit of his profession . 
Be all this as it may , his voice was now often heard hailing the three mast-heads and admonishing them to keep a bright look-out , and not omit reporting even a porpoise . 
cried Ahab . 
Dough-Boy hurried below , glanced at the watch , and reported the exact minute to Ahab . 
With a start all glared at dark Ahab , who was surrounded by five dusky phantoms that seemed fresh formed out of air . 
While yet the wondering ship 's company were gazing upon these strangers , Ahab cried out to the white-turbaned old man at their head , `` All ready there , Fedallah ? '' 
Hardly had they pulled out from under the ship 's lee , when a fourth keel , coming from the windward side , pulled round under the stern , and showed the five strangers rowing Ahab , who , standing erect in the stern , loudly hailed Starbuck , Stubb , and Flask , to spread themselves widely , so as to cover a large expanse of water . 
`` Captain Ahab ? 
`` Spread yourselves , '' cried Ahab ; `` give way , all four boats . 
There she blows right ahead , boys ! 
In obedience to a sign from Ahab , Starbuck was now pulling obliquely across Stubb 's bow ; and when for a minute or so the two boats were pretty near to each other , Stubb hailed the mate . 
It took off the extreme edge of their wonder ; and so what with all this and Stubb 's confident way of accounting for their appearance , they were for the time freed from superstitious surmisings ; though the affair still left abundant room for all manner of wild conjectures as to dark Ahab 's precise agency in the matter from the beginning . 
Meantime , Ahab , out of hearing of his officers , having sided the furthest to windward , was still ranging ahead of the other boats ; a circumstance bespeaking how potent a crew was pulling him . 
As for Fedallah , who was seen pulling the harpooneer oar , he had thrown aside his black jacket , and displayed his naked chest with the whole part of his body above the gunwale , clearly cut against the alternating depressions of the watery horizon ; while at the other end of the boat Ahab , with one arm , like a fencer 's , thrown half backward into the air , as if to counterbalance any tendency to trip ; Ahab was seen steadily managing his steering oar as in a thousand boat lowerings ere the White Whale had torn him . 
The whales had irregularly settled bodily down into the blue , thus giving no distantly discernible token of the movement , though from his closer vicinity Ahab had observed it . 
But what it was that inscrutable Ahab said to that tiger-yellow crew of his -- these were words best omitted here ; for you live under the blessed light of the evangelical land . 
Only the infidel sharks in the audacious seas may give ear to such words , when , with tornado brow , and eyes of red murder , and foam-glued lips , Ahab leaped after his prey . 
But with Ahab the question assumed a modified aspect . 
Ahab well knew that although his friends at home would think little of his entering a boat in certain comparatively harmless vicissitudes of the chase , for the sake of being near the scene of action and giving his orders in person , yet for Captain Ahab to have a boat actually apportioned to him as a regular headsman in the hunt -- above all for Captain Ahab to be supplied with five extra men , as that same boat 's crew , he well knew that such generous conceits never entered the heads of the owners of the Pequod . 
Until Cabaco 's published discovery , the sailors had little foreseen it , though to be sure when , after being a little while out of port , all hands had concluded the customary business of fitting the whaleboats for service ; when some time after this Ahab was now and then found bestirring himself in the matter of making thole-pins with his own hands for what was thought to be one of the spare boats , and even solicitously cutting the small wooden skewers , which when the line is running out are pinned over the groove in the bow : when all this was observed in him , and particularly his solicitude in having an extra coat of sheathing in the bottom of the boat , as if to make it better withstand the pointed pressure of his ivory limb ; and also the anxiety he evinced in exactly shaping the thigh board , or clumsy cleat , as it is sometimes called , the horizontal piece in the boat 's bow for bracing the knee against in darting or stabbing at the whale ; when it was observed how often he stood up in that boat with his solitary knee fixed in the semi-circular depression in the cleat , and with the carpenter 's chisel gouged out a little here and straightened it a little there ; all these things , I say , had awakened much interest and curiosity at the time . 
But almost everybody supposed that this particular preparative heedfulness in Ahab must only be with a view to the ultimate chase of Moby Dick ; for he had already revealed his intention to hunt that mortal monster in person . 
Whence he came in a mannerly world like this , by what sort of unaccountable tie he soon evinced himself to be linked with Ahab 's peculiar fortunes ; nay , so far as to have some sort of a halfhinted influence ; Heaven knows , but it might have been even authority over him ; all this none knew . 
Walking the deck with quick , side-lunging strides , Ahab commanded the t ` gallant sails and royals to be set , and every stunsail spread . 
The strange , upheaving , lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows of so many sails , made the buoyant , hovering deck to feel like air beneath the feet ; while still she rushed along , as if two antagonistic influences were struggling in her -- one to mount direct to heaven , the other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal . 
And had you watched Ahab 's face that night , you would have thought that in him also two different things were warring . 
During all this blackness of the elements , Ahab , though assuming for the time the almost continual command of the drenched and dangerous deck , manifested the gloomiest reserve ; and more seldom than ever addressed his mates . 
So , with his ivory leg inserted into its accustomed hole , and with one hand firmly grasping a shroud , Ahab for hours and hours would stand gazing dead to windward , while an occasional squall of sleet or snow would all but congeal his very eyelashes together . 
By night the same muteness of humanity before the shrieks of the ocean prevailed ; still in silence the men swung in the bowlines ; still wordless p642-293 Ahab stood up to the blast . 
While in various silent ways the seamen of the Pequod were evincing their observance of this ominous incident at the first mere mention of the White Whale 's name to another ship , Ahab for a moment paused ; it almost seemed as though he would have lowered a boat to board the stranger , had not the threatening wind forbade . 
Though in the course of his continual voyagings Ahab must often before have noticed a similar sight , yet , to any monomaniac man , the veriest trifles capriciously carry meanings . 
murmured Ahab , gazing over into the water . 
Theostensible reason why Ahab did not go on board of the whaler we had spoken was this : the wind and sea betokened storms . 
This latter circumstance , with its own particular accompaniments , forming what may be called the secret part of the tragedy about to be narrated , never reached the ears of Captain Ahab or his mates . 
Bare-headed in the sultry sun , Ahab stood on the bowsprit , and with one hand pushed far behind in readiness to wave his orders to the helmsman , cast his eager glance in the direction indicated aloft by the outstretched motionless arm of Daggoo . 
Whether the flitting attendance of the one still and solitary jet had gradually worked upon Ahab , so that he was now prepared to connect the ideas of mildness and repose with the first sight of the particular whale he pursued ; however this was , or whether his eagerness betrayed him ; whichever way it might have been , no sooner did he distinctly perceive the white mass , than with a quick intensity he instantly gave orders for lowering . 
The four boats were soon on the water ; Ahab 's in advance , and all swiftly pulling towards their prey . 
But Ahab said nothing ; turning his boat , he sailed back to the vessel ; the rest as silently following . 
cried Ahab . 
The sudden exclamations of the crew must have alarmed the whale ; and ere the boats were down , majestically turning , he swam away to the leeward , but with such a steady tranquillity , and making so few ripples as he swam , that thinking after all he might not as yet be alarmed , Ahab gave orders that not an oar should be used , and no man must speak but in whispers . 
Darkness came on ; but three lights up and down in the Pequod 's main-rigging dimly guided our way ; till drawing nearer we saw Ahab dropping one of several more lanterns over the bulwarks . 
Though , in overseeing the pursuit of this whale , Captain Ahab had evinced his customary activity , to call it so ; yet now that the creature was dead , some vague dissatisfaction , or impatience , or despair , seemed working in him ; as if the sight of that dead body reminded him that Moby Dick was yet to be slain ; and though a thousand other whales were brought to his ship , all that would not one jot advance his grand , monomaniac object . 
* If moody Ahab was now all quiescence , at least so far as could be known on deck , Stubb , his second mate , flushed with conquest , betrayed an unusual but still good-natured excitement . 
A short space elapsed , and up into this noiselessness came Ahab alone from his cabin . 
`` Speak , thou vast and venerable head , '' muttered Ahab , `` which , though ungarnished with a beard , yet here and there lookest hoary with mosses ; speak , mighty head , and tell us the secret thing that is in thee . 
Well , now , that 's cheering , '' cried Ahab , suddenly erecting himself , while whole thunder-clouds swept aside from his brow . 
`` I fear not thy epidemic , man , '' said Ahab from the bulwarks , to Captain Mayhew , who stood in the boat 's stern ; `` come on board . '' 
demanded Ahab , when the boat drifted back . 
Mayhew having concluded his narration , Ahab put such questions to him , that the stranger captain could not forbear inquiring whether he intended to hunt the White Whale , if opportunity should offer . 
To which Ahab answered -- `` Aye . '' 
Ahab stolidly turned aside ; then said to Mayhew , `` Captain , I have just bethought me of my letter-bag ; there is a letter for one of thy officers , if I mistake not . 
cried Ahab . 
Meantime , Ahab holding the letter , muttered , `` Mr. Har -- yes , Mr. Harry -- -LRB- a woman 's pinny hand , -- the man 's wife , I 'll wager -RRB- -- Aye -- Mr. Harry Macey , Ship Jeroboam ; -- why it 's Macey , and he 's dead ! '' 
`` Nay , keep it thyself , '' cried Gabriel to Ahab ; `` thou art soon going that way . '' 
yelled Ahab . 
It fell at Ahab 's feet . 
`` Do you suppose Fedallah wants to kidnap Captain Ahab ? '' 
And Ahab chanced so to stand , that the Parsee occupied his shadow ; while , if the Parsee 's shadow was there at all it seemed only to blend with , and lengthen Ahab 's . 
As he mounted the deck , Ahab abruptly accosted him , without at all heeding what he had in his hand ; but in his broken lingo , the German soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale ; immediately turning the conversation to his lamp-feeder and oil can , with some remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in profound darkness -- his last drop of Bremen oil being gone , and not a single flying-fish yet captured to supply the deficiency ; concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically called a cleanone -LRB- that is , an empty one -RRB- , well deserving the name of Jungfrau or the Virgin . 
With a fair , fresh wind , the Pequod was now drawing nigh to these straits ; Ahab purposing to pass through them into the Javan sea , and thence , cruising northwards , over waters known to be frequented here and there by the Sperm Whale , sweep inshore by the Philippine Islands , and gain the far coast of Japan , in time for the great whaling season there . 
By these means , the circumnavigating Pequod would sweep almost all the known Sperm Whale crusing grounds of the world , previous to descending upon the Line in the Pacific ; where Ahab , though everywhere else foiled in his pursuit , firmly counted upon giving battle to Moby Dick , in the sea he was most known to frequent ; and at a season when he might most reasonably be presumed to be haunting it . 
in this zoned quest , does Ahab touch no land ? 
So Ahab . 
Levelling his glass at this sight , Ahab quickly revolved in his pivot-hole , crying , `` Aloft there , and rig whips and buckets to wet the sails ; -- Malays , sir , and after us ! '' 
As with glass under arm , Ahab to-and-fro paced the deck ; in his forward turn beholding the monsters he chased , and in the after one the bloodthirsty pirates chasing him ; some such fancy as the above seemed his . 
And when he glanced upon the green walls of the watery defile in which the ship was then sailing , and bethought him that through that gate lay the route to his vengeance , and beheld , how that through that same gate he was now both chasing and being chased to his deadly end ; and not only that , but a herd of remorseless wild pirates and inhuman atheistical devils were infernally cheering him on with their curses ; -- when all these conceits had passed through his brain , Ahab 's brow was left gaunt and ribbed , like the black sand beach after some stormy tide has been gnawing it , without being able to drag the firm thing from its place . 
Then rapidly pulling back towards the Pequod , and seeing Ahab leaning over the quarter-deck rail awaiting his report , he moulded his two hands into a trumpet and shouted -- `` No , Sir ! 
Upon which Ahab retired , and Stubb returned to the Frenchman . 
Some six handfuls were obtained ; but more was unavoidably lost in the sea , and still more , perhaps , might have been secured were it not for impatient Ahab 's loud command to Stubb to desist , and come on board , else the ship would bid them good bye . 
Erenow it has been related how Ahab was wont to pace his quarter-deck , taking regular turns at either limit , the binnacle and mainmast ; but in the multiplicity of other things requiring narration it has not been added how that sometimes in these walks , when most plunged in his mood , he was wont to pause in turn at each spot , and stand there strangely eyeing the particular object before him . 
Before this equatorial coin , Ahab , not unobserved by others , was now pausing . 
The firm tower , that is Ahab ; the volcano , that is Ahab ; the courageous , the undaunted , and victorious fowl , that , too , is Ahab ; all are Ahab ; and this round gold is but the image of the rounder globe , which , like a magician 's glass , to each and every man in turn but mirrors back his own mysterious self . 
old Ahab ! 
So cried Ahab , once more hailing a ship showing English colors , bearing down under the stern . 
cried Ahab , impetuously , and tossing about the oars near him -- `` Stand by to lower ! '' 
In the excitement of the moment , Ahab had forgotten that since the loss of his leg he had never once stepped on board of any vessel at sea but his own , and then it was always by an ingenious and very handy mechanical contrivance peculiar to the Pequod , and a thing not to be rigged and shipped in any other vessel at a moment 's warning . 
So , deprived of one leg , and the strange ship of course being altogether unsupplied with the kindly invention , Ahab now found himself abjectly reduced to a clumsy landsman again ; hopelessly eyeing the uncertain changeful height he could hardly hope to attain . 
It has before been hinted , perhaps , that every little untoward circumstance that befel him , and which indirectly sprang from his luckless mishap , almost invariably irritated or exasperated Ahab . 
This was quickly lowered to Ahab , who at once comprehending it all , slid his solitary thigh into the curve of the hook -LRB- it was like sitting in the fluke of an anchor , or the crotch of an apple tree -RRB- , and then giving the word , held himself fast , and at the same time also helped to hoist his own weight , by pulling hand-over-hand upon one of the running parts of the tackle . 
With his ivory arm frankly thrust forth in welcome , the other captain advanced , and Ahab , putting out his ivory leg , and crossing the ivory arm -LRB- like two sword-fish blades -RRB- cried out in his walrus way , `` Aye , aye , hearty ! 
asked Ahab , now sliding down from the capstan , and resting on the Englishman 's shoulder , as he did so . 
`` Spin me the yarn , '' said Ahab ; `` how was it ? '' 
cried Ahab , suddenly letting out his suspended breath . 
`` Aye , aye -- they were mine -- myirons , '' cried Ahab , exultingly -- `` but on ! '' 
But , at his superior 's introduction of him to Ahab , he politely bowed , and straightway went on to do his captain 's bidding . 
`` It was a shocking had wound , '' began the whale-surgeon ; `` and , taking my advice , Captain Boomer here , stood our old Sammy -- '' `` Samuel Enderby is the name of my ship , '' interrupted the one-armed captain , addressing Ahab ; `` go on , boy . '' 
`` My captain , you must have ere this perceived , respected sir '' -- said the imperturbable godly-looking Bunger , slightly bowing to Ahab -- `` is apt to be facetious at times ; he spins us many clever things of that sort . 
now cried Ahab , who thus far had been impatiently listening to this bye-play between the two Englishmen . 
`` Bless my soul , and curse the foul fiend 's , '' cried Bunger , stoopingly walking round Ahab , and like a dog , strangely snuffing ; `` this man 's blood -- bring the thermometer ! 
-- taking a lancet from his pocket , and drawing near to Ahab 's arm . 
roared Ahab , dashing him against the bulwarks -- `` Man the boat ! 
But Fedallah , putting a finger on his lip , slid over the bulwarks to take the boat 's steering oar , and Ahab , swinging the cutting-tackle towards him , commanded the ship 's sailors to stand by to lower . 
With back to the stranger ship , and face p642-524 set like a flint to his own , Ahab stood upright till alongside of the Pequod . 
And that fine gam I had -- long , very long after old Ahab touched her planks with his ivory heel -- it minds me of the noble , solid , Saxon hospitality of that ship ; and may my parson forget me , and the devil remember me , if I ever lose sight of it . 
Ahab 's harpoon had shed older blood than the Pharaoh 's . 
Theprecipitating manner in which Captain Ahab had quitted the Samuel Enderby of London , had not been unattended with some small violence to his own person . 
And when after gaining his own deck , and his own pivot-hole there , he so vehemently wheeled round with an urgent command to the steersman -LRB- it was , as ever , something about his not steering inflexibly enough -RRB- ; then , the already shaken ivory received such an additional twist and wrench , that though it still remained entire , and to all appearances lusty , yet Ahab did not deem it entirely trustworthy . 
And , indeed , it seemed small matter for wonder , that for all his pervading , mad recklessness , Ahab did at times give careful heed to the condition of that dead bone upon which he partly stood . 
Yea , more than equally , thought Ahab ; since both the ancestry and posterity of Grief go further than the ancestry and posterity of Joy . 
For , thought Ahab , while even the highest earthly felicities ever have a certain unsignifying pettiness lurking in them , but , at bottom , all heart-woes , a mystic significance , and , in some men , an archangelic grandeur ; so do their diligent tracings-out not belie the obvious deduction . 
With many other particulars concerning Ahab , always had it remained a mystery to some , why it was , that for a certain period , both before and after the sailing of the Pequod , he had hidden himself away with such Grand-Lama-like exclusiveness ; and , for that one interval , sought speechless refuge , as it were , among the marble senate of the dead . 
Captain Peleg 's bruited reason for this thing appeared by no means adequate ; though , indeed , as touching all Ahab 's deeper part , every revelation partook more of significant darkness than of explanatory light . 
And not only this , but to that ever-contracting , dropping circle ashore , who , for any reason , possessed the privilege of a less banned approach to him ; to that timid circle the above hinted casualty -- remaining , as it did , moodily unaccounted for by Ahab -- invested itself with terrors , not entirely underived from the land of spirits and of wails . 
But be all this as it may ; let the unseen , ambiguous synod in the air , or the vindictive princes and potentates of fire , have to do or not with earthly Ahab , yet , in this present matter of his leg , he took plain practical procedures ; -- he called the carpenter . 
Ahab -LRB- advancing -RRB- . 
But Ahab ; oh he 's a hard driver . 
And so Starbuck found Ahab with a general chart of the oriental archipelagoes spread before him ; and another separate one representing the long eastern coasts of the Japanese islands -- Niphon , Matsmai , and Sikoke . 
`` Captain Ahab mistakes ; it is I . 
What cares Ahab ? 
`` Captain Ahab , '' said the reddening mate , moving further into the cabin , with a daring so strangely respectful and cautious that it almost seemed not only every way seeking to avoid the slightest outward manifestation of itself , but within also seemed more than half distrustful of itself ; `` A better man than I might well pass over in thee what he would quickly enough resent in a younger man ; aye , and in a happier , Captain Ahab . '' 
Shall we not understand each other better than hitherto , Captain Ahab ? '' 
Ahab seized a loaded musket from the rack -LRB- forming part of most South-Sea-men 's cabin furniture -RRB- , and pointing it towards Starbuck , exclaimed : `` There is one God that is Lord over the earth , and one Captain that is lord over the Pequod . 
But , mastering his emotion , he half calmly rose , and as he quitted the cabin , paused for an instant and said : `` Thou hast outraged , not insulted me , sir ; but for that I ask thee not to beware of Starbuck ; thou wouldst but laugh ; but let Ahab beware of Ahab ; beware of thyself , old man . '' 
murmured Ahab , as Starbuck disappeared . 
`` What 's that he said -- Ahab beware of Ahab -- there 's something there ! '' 
It were perhaps vain to surmise exactly why it was , that as respecting Starbuck , Ahab thus acted . 
And this thought it must have been which suggested to Ahab that wild exclamation of his , when one morning turning away from surveying poor Queequeg -- `` Oh , devilish tantalization of the gods ! '' 
But few thoughts of Pan stirred Ahab 's brain , as standing like an iron statue at his accustomed place beside the mizen rigging , with one nostril he unthinkingly snuffed the sugary musk from the Bashee isles -LRB- in whose sweet woods mild lovers must be walking -RRB- , and with the other consciously inhaled the salt breath of the new found sea ; that sea in which the hated White Whale must even then be swimming . 
Availinghimself of the mild , summer-cool weather that now reigned in these latitudes , and in preparation for the peculiarly active pursuits shortly to be anticipated , Perth , the begrimed , blistered old blacksmith , had not removed his portable forge to the hold again , after concluding his contributory work for Ahab 's leg , but still retained it on deck , fast lashed to ringbolts by the foremast ; being now almost incessantly invoked by the headsmen , and harpooneers , and bowsmen to do some little job for them ; altering , or repairing , or new shaping their various weapons and boat furniture . 
Withmatted beard , and swathed in a bristling shark-skin apron , about mid day , Perth was standing between his forge and anvil , the latter placed upon an iron-wood log , with one hand holding a pike-head in the coals , and with the other at his forge 's lungs , when Captain Ahab came along , carrying in his hand a small rusty-looking leathern bag . 
While yet a little distance from the forge , moody Ahab paused ; till at last , Perth , withdrawing his iron from the fire , began hammering it upon the anvil -- the red mass sending off the sparks in thick hovering flights , some of which flew close to Ahab . 
`` Because I am scorched all over , Captain Ahab , '' answered Perth , resting for a moment on his hammer ; `` I am past scorching ; not easily can ` st thou scorch a scar . '' 
`` Look ye here , then , '' cried Ahab , passionately advancing , and leaning with both hands on Perth 's shoulders ; `` look ye here -- here -- can ye smoothe out a seam like this , blacksmith , '' sweeping one hand across his ribbed brow ; `` if thou could ` st , blacksmith , glad enough would I lay my head upon thy anvil , and feel thy heaviest hammer between my eyes . 
Why , Captain Ahab , thou hast here , then , the best and stubbornest stuff we blacksmiths ever work . '' 
When at last the twelve rods were made , Ahab tried them , one by one , by spiralling them , with his own hand , round a long , heavy iron bolt . 
This done , Perth was about to begin welding the twelve into one , when Ahab stayed his hand , and said he would weld his own iron . 
But , as Ahab looked up , he slid aside . 
At last the shank , in one complete rod , received its final heat ; and as Perth , to temper it , plunged it all hissing into the cask of water near by , the scalding steam shot up into Ahab 's bent face . 
`` Pray God , not that ; yet I fear something , Captain Ahab . 
Fashioned at last into an arrowy shape , and welded by Perth to the shank , the steel soon pointed the end of the iron ; and as the blacksmith was about giving the barbs their final heat , prior to tempering them , he cried to Ahab to place the watercask near . 
deliriously howled Ahab , as the malignant iron scorchingly devoured the baptismal blood . 
Now , mustering the spare poles from below , and selecting one of hickory , with the bark still investing it , Ahab fitted the end to the socket of the iron . 
Pressing his foot upon it , till the rope hummed like a harp-string , then eagerly bending over it , and seeing no strandings , Ahab exclaimed , `` Good ! 
This done , pole , iron , and rope -- like the Three Fates -- remained inseparable , and Ahab moodily stalked away with the weapon ; the sound of his ivory leg , and the sound of the hickory pole , both hollowly ringing along every plank . 
Nor did such soothing scenes , however temporary , fail of at least as temporary an effect on Ahab . 
Andjolly enough were the sights and the sounds that came bearing down before the wind , some few weeks after Ahab 's harpoon had been welded . 
And Ahab , he too was standing on his quarter-deck , shaggy and black , with a stubborn gloom ; and as the two ships crossed each other 's wakes -- one all jubilations for things passed , the other all forebodings as to things to come -- their two captains in themselves impersonated the whole striking contrast of the scene . 
gritted Ahab in reply . 
muttered Ahab ; then aloud , `` Thou art a full ship and homeward bound , thou sayst ; well , then , call me an empty ship , and outward-bound . 
And as Ahab , leaning over the taffrail , eyed the homeward-bound craft , he took from his pocket a small vial of sand , and then looking from the ship to the vial , seemed thereby bringing two remote associations together , for that vial was filled with Nantucket soundings . 
For next day after encountering the gay Bachelor , whales were seen and four were slain ; and one of them by Ahab . 
Soothed again , but only soothed to deeper gloom , Ahab , who had sterned off from the whale , sat intently watching his final wanings from the now tranquil boat . 
For that strange spectacle observable in all sperm whales dying -- the turning sunwards of the head , and so expiring -- that strange spectacle , beheld of such a placid evening , somehow to Ahab conveyed a wondrousness unknown before . 
These last three were brought alongside ere nightfall ; but the windward one could not be reached till morning ; and the boat that had killed it lay by its side all night ; and that boat was Ahab 's . 
Ahab and all his boat 's crew seemed asleep but the Parsee ; who crouching in the bow , sat watching the sharks , that spectrally played round the whale , and tapped the light cedar planks with their tails . 
Started from his slumbers , Ahab , face to face , saw the Parsee ; and hooped round by the gloom of the night they seemed the last men in a flooded world . 
-- I am immortal then , on land and on sea , '' cried Ahab , with a laugh of derision ; -- `` Immortal on land and on sea ! '' 
Theseason for the Line at length drew near ; and every day when Ahab , coming from his cabin , cast his eyes aloft , the vigilant helmsman would ostentatiously handle his spokes , and the eager mariners quickly run to the braces , and would stand there with all their eyes centrally fixed on the nailed doubloon ; impatient for the order to point the ship 's prow for the equator . 
It was hard upon high noon ; and Ahab , seated in the bows of his high-hoisted boat , was about taking his wonted daily observation of the sun to determine his latitude . 
Well that Ahab 's quadrant was furnished with colored glasses , through which to take sight of that solar fire . 
Meantime while his whole attention was absorbed , the Parsee was kneeling beneath him on the ship 's deck , and with face thrown up like Ahab 's , was eyeing the same sun with him ; only the lids of his eyes half hooded their orbs , and his wild face was subdued to an earthly passionlessness . 
At length the desired observation was taken ; and with his pencil upon his ivory leg , Ahab soon calculated what his latitude must be at that precise instant . 
As the frantic old man thus spoke and thus trampled with his live and dead feet , a sneering triumph that seemed meant for Ahab , and a fatalistic despair that seemed meant for himself -- these passed over the mute , motionless Parsee 's face . 
Unobserved he rose and glided away ; while , awestruck by the aspect of their commander , the seamen clustered together on the forecastle , till Ahab , troubledly pacing the deck , shouted out -- `` To the braces ! 
Standing between the knight-heads , Starbuck watched the Pequod 's tumultuous way , and Ahab 's also , as he went lurching along the deck . 
Well , well ; I heard Ahab mutter , ` Here some one thrusts these cards into p642-586 these old hands of mine ; swears that I must play them , and no others . ' 
And damn me , Ahab , but thou actest right ; live in the game , and die it ! '' 
Though lifted to the very top of the cranes , the windward quarter boat -LRB- Ahab 's -RRB- did not escape . 
cried Starbuck , seizing Stubb by the shoulder , and pointing his hand towards the weather bow , `` markest thou not that the gale comes from the eastward , the very course Ahab is to run for Moby Dick ? 
said Ahab , groping his way along the bulwarks to his pivot-hole ; but suddenly finding his path made plain to him by elbowed lances of fire . 
cried Starbuck to the crew , suddenly admonished to vigilance by the vivid lightning that had just been darting flambeaux , to light Ahab to his post . 
cried Ahab ; `` let 's have fair play here , though we be the weaker side . 
At the base of the mainmast , full beneath the doubloon and the flame , the Parsee was kneeling in Ahab 's front , but with his head bowed away from him ; while near by , from the arched and overhanging rigging , where they had just been engaged securing a spar , a number of the seamen , arrested by the glare , now cohered together , and hung pendulous , like a knot of numbed wasps from a drooping , orchard twig . 
cried Ahab . 
-LSB- Sudden , repeated flashes of lightning ; the nine flames leap lengthwise to thrice their previous height ; Ahab , with the rest , closes his eyes , his right hand pressed hard upon them . -RSB- 
Ahab 's harpoon , the one forged at Perth 's fire , remained firmly lashed in its conspicuous crotch , so that it projected beyond his whale-boat 's bow ; but the sea that had stove its bottom had caused the loose leather sheath to drop off ; and from the keen steel barb there now came a levelled flame of pale , forked fire . 
As the silent harpoon burned there like a serpent 's tongue , Starbuck grasped Ahab by the arm -- `` God , God is against thee , old man ; forbear ! 
But dashing the rattling lightning links to the deck , and snatching the burning harpoon , Ahab waved it like a torch among them ; swearing to transfix with it the first sailor that but cast loose a rope 's end . 
Petrified by his aspect , and still more shrinking from the fiery dart that he held , the men fell back in dismay , and Ahab again spoke : -- `` All your oaths to hunt the White Whale are as binding as mine ; and heart , soul , and body , lungs and life , old Ahab is bound . 
As in the hurricane that sweeps the plain , men fly the neighborhood of some lone , gigantic elm , whose very height and strength but render it so much the more unsafe , because so much the more a mark for thunderbolts ; so at those last words of Ahab 's many of the mariners did run from him in a terror of dismay . 
Ahab standing by the helm . 
Did n't you once say that whatever ship Ahab sails in , that ship should pay something extra on its insurance policy , just as though it were loaded with powder barrels aft and boxes of lucifers forward ? 
Not one ship in a hundred carries rods , and Ahab , -- aye , man , and all of us , -- were in no more danger then , in my poor opinion , than all the crews in ten thousand ships now sailing the seas . 
In compliance with the standing order of his commander -- to report immediately , and at any one of the twenty-four hours , any decided change in the affairs of the deck , -- Starbuck had no sooner trimmed the yards to the breeze -- however reluctantly and gloomily , -- than he mechanically went below to apprise Captain Ahab of the circumstance . 
-- Yes , it would make him the wilful murderer of thirty men and more , if this ship come to any deadly harm ; and come to deadly harm , my soul swears this ship will , if Ahab have his way . 
`` On this level , Ahab 's hammock swings within ; his head this way . 
Long maintaining an enchanted silence , Ahab stood apart ; and every time the tetering ship loweringly pitched down her bowsprit , he turned to eye the bright sun 's rays produced ahead ; and when she profoundly settled by the stern , he turned behind , and saw the sun 's rearward place , and how the same yellow rays were blending with his undeviating wake . 
Upon this every soul was confounded ; for the phenomenon just then observed by Ahab had unaccountably escaped every one else ; but its very blinding palpableness must have been the cause . 
Thrusting his head half way into the binnacle , Ahab caught one glimpse of the compasses ; his uplifted arm slowly fell ; for a moment he almost seemed to stagger . 
As for the men , though some of them lowly rumbled , their fear of Ahab was greater than their fear of Fate . 
But as ever before , the pagan harpooneers remained almost wholly unimpressed ; or if impressed , it was only with a certain magnetism shot into their congenial hearts from inflexible Ahab 's . 
But Ahab is lord over the level loadstone yet . 
`` Men , '' said he , steadily turning upon the crew , as the mate handed him the things he had demanded , `` my men , the thunder turned old Ahab 's needles ; but out of this bit of steel Ahab can make one of his own , that will point as true as any . '' 
With a blow from the top-maul Ahab knocked off the steel head of the lance , and then handing to the mate the long iron rod remaining , bade him hold it upright , without its touching the deck . 
At first , the steel went round and round , quivering and vibrating at either end ; but at last p642-604 it settled to its place , when Ahab , who had been intently watching for this result , stepped frankly back from the binnacle , and pointing his stretched arm towards it , exclaimed , -- `` Look ye , for yourselves , if Ahab be not lord of the level loadstone ! 
In his fiery eyes of scorn and triumph , you then saw Ahab in all his fatal pride . 
But heedless of all this , his mood seized Ahab , as he happened to glance upon the reel , not many hours after the magnet scene , and he remembered how his quadrant was no more , and recalled his frantic oath about the level log and line . 
The Manxman took the reel , and holding it high up , by the projecting handle-ends of the spindle , round which the spool of line revolved , so stood with the angular log hanging downwards , till Ahab advanced to him . 
Ahab stood before him , and was lightly unwinding some thirty or forty turns to form a preliminary hand-coil to toss overboard , when the old Manxman , who was intently eyeing both him and the line , made bold to speak . 
But Ahab can mend all . 
Captain Ahab ! 
`` Peace , thou crazy loon , '' cried the Manxman , seizing him by the arm . 
`` The greater idiot ever scolds the lesser , '' muttered Ahab , advancing . 
Here , boy ; Ahab 's cabin shall be Pip 's home henceforth , while Ahab lives . 
here 's velvet shark-skin , '' intenting gazing at Ahab 's hand , and feeling it . 
Steeringnow south-eastward by Ahab 's levelled steel , and her progress solely determined by Ahab 's level log and line ; the Pequod held on her path towards the Equator . 
Below in his hammock , Ahab did not hear of this till grey dawn , when he came to the deck ; it was then recounted to him by Flask , not unaccompanied with hinted dark meanings . 
I make a leg for Captain Ahab , and he wears it like a gentleman ; but I make a bandbox for Queequeg , and he wont put his head into it . 
-- Ahab comes slowly from the cabin-gangway , aud hears Pip following him . 
-LRB- Ahab to himself . -RRB- 
But ere her commander , who , with trumpet to mouth , stood up in his boat ; ere he could hopefully hail , Ahab 's voice was heard . 
Throttling his joy , Ahab negatively answered this unexpected question ; and would then have fain boarded the stranger , when the stranger captain himself , having stopped his vessel 's way , was seen descending her side . 
Immediately he was recognised by Ahab for a Nantucketer he knew . 
cried Ahab , closely advancing . 
For God 's sake -- I beg , I conjure '' -- here exclaimed the stranger Captain to Ahab , who thus far had but icily received his petition . 
I take back the coat and watch -- what says Ahab ? 
But the captain , for some unknown constitutional reason , had refrained from mentioning all this , and not till forced to it by Ahab 's iciness did he allude to his one yet missing boy ; a little lad , but twelve years old , whose father with the earnest but unmisgiving hardihood of a Nantucketer 's paternal love , had thus early sought to initiate him in the perils and wonders of a vocation almost immemorially the destiny of all his race . 
Meantime , now the stranger was still beseeching his poor boon of Ahab ; and Ahab still stood like an anvil , receiving every shock , but without the least quivering of his own . 
For youtoo have a boy , Captain Ahab -- though but a child , and nestling safely at home now -- a child of your old age too -- Yes , yes , you relent ; I see it -- run , run , men , now , and stand by to square in the yards . '' 
`` Avast , '' cried Ahab -- `` touch not a rope-yarn ; '' then in a voice that prolongingly moulded every word -- `` Captain Gardiner , I will not do it . 
-LRB- Ahab moving to go on deck ; Pip catches him by the hand to follow . -RRB- 
`` Lad , lad , I tell thee thou must not follow Ahab now . 
The hour is coming when Ahab would not scare thee from him , yet would not have thee by him . 
`` If thou speakest thus to me much more , Ahab 's purpose keels up in him . 
have a care , for Ahab too is mad . 
-LRB- Ahab goes ; Pip steps one step forward . -RRB- 
Andnow that at the proper time and place , after so long and wide a preliminary cruise , Ahab , -- all other whaling waters swept -- seemed to have chased his foe into an ocean-fold , to slay him the more securely there ; now , that he found himself hard by the very latitude and longitude where his tormenting wound had been inflicted ; now that a vessel had been spoken which on the very day preceding had actually encountered Moby Dick ; -- and now that all his successive meetings with various ships contrastingly concurred to show the demoniac indifference with which the white whale tore his hunters , whether sinning or sinned against ; now it was that there lurked a something in the old man 's eyes , which it was hardly sufferable for feeble souls to see . 
As the unsetting polar star , which through the livelong , arctic , six months ' night sustains its piercing , steady , central gaze ; so Ahab 's purpose now fixedly gleamed down upon the constant midnight of the gloomy crew . 
Alike , joy and sorrow , hope and fear , seemed ground to finest dust , and powdered , for the time , in the clamped mortar of Ahab 's iron soul . 
But did you deeply scan him in his more secret confidential hours ; when he thought no glance but one was on him ; then you would have seen that even as Ahab 's eyes so awed the crew 's , the inscrutable Parsee 's glance awed his ; or somehow , at least , in some wild way , at times affected it . 
Nor , at any time , by night or day could the mariners now step upon the deck , unless Ahab was before them ; either standing in his pivot-hole , or exactly pacing the planks between two undeviating limits , -- the main-mast and the mizen ; or else they saw him standing in the cabin-scuttle , -- his living foot advanced upon the deck , as if to step ; his hat slouched heavily over his eyes ; so that however motionless he stood , however the days and nights were added on , that he had not swung in his hammock ; yet hidden beneath that slouching hat , they could never tell unerringly whether , for all this , his eyes were really closed at times : or whether he was still intently scanning them ; no matter , though he stood so in the scuttle for a whole hour on the stretch , and the unheeded night-damp gathered in beads of dew upon that stone-carved coat and hat . 
At times , for longest hours , without a single hail , they stood far parted in the starlight ; Ahab in his scuttle , the Parsee by the mainmast ; but still fixedly gazing upon each other ; as if in the Parsee Ahab saw his forethrown shadow , in Ahab the Parsee his abandoned substance . 
And yet , somehow , did Ahab -- in his own proper self , as daily , hourly , and every instant , commandingly revealed to his subordinates , -- Ahab seemed an independent lord ; the Parsee but his slave . 
For be this Parsee what he may , all rib and keel was solid Ahab . 
Ahab must have the doubloon ! '' 
And thus , with one hand clinging round the royal mast , Ahab gazed abroad upon the sea for miles and miles , -- ahead , astern , this side , and that , -- within the wide expanded circle commanded at so great a height . 
So Ahab 's proceedings in this matter were not unusual ; the only strange thing about them seemed to be , that Starbuck , almost the one only man who had ever ventured to oppose him with anything in the slightest degree approaching to decision -- one of those too , whose faithfulness on the look-out he had seemed to doubt somewhat ; -- it was strange , that this was the very man he should select for his watchman ; freely giving his whole life into such an otherwise distrusted person 's hands . 
Now , the first time Ahab was perched aloft ; ere he had been there ten minutes ; one of those red-billed savage sea-hawks which so often fly incommodiously close round the manned mast-heads of whalemen in these latitudes ; one of these birds came wheeling and screaming round his head in a maze of untrackably swift circlings . 
But with his gaze fixed upon the dim and distant horizon , Ahab seemed not to mark this wild bird ; nor , indeed , would any one else have marked it much , it being no uncommon circumstance ; only now almost the least heedful eye seemed to see some sort of cunning meaning in almost every sight . 
suddenly cried the Sicilian seaman , who being posted at the mizen-mast-head , stood directly behind Ahab , though somewhat lower than his level , and with a deep gulf of air dividing them . 
Ahab 's hat was never restored ; the wild hawk flew on and on with it ; far in advance of the prow : and at last disappeared ; while from the point of that disappearance , a minute black spot was dimly discerned , falling from that vast height into the sea . 
and snatching Perth 's levelled iron from the crotch , Ahab held it out , exclaiming -- `` Look ye , Nantucketer ; here in this hand I hold his death ! 
cried Ahab like lightning to his men . 
As Ahab now glided from the dejected Delight , the strange life-buoy hanging at the Pequod 's stern came into conspicuous relief . 
Tied up and twisted ; gnarled and knotted with wrinkles ; haggardly firm and unyielding ; his eyes glowing like coals , that still glow in the ashes of ruin ; untottering Ahab stood forth in the clearness of the morn ; lifting his splintered helmet of a brow to the fair girl 's forehead of heaven . 
how oblivious were ye of old Ahab 's close-coiled woe ! 
Slowly crossing the deck from the scuttle , Ahab leaned over the side , and watched how his shadow in the water sank and sank to his gaze , the more and the more that he strove to pierce the profundity . 
From beneath his slouched hat Ahab dropped a tear into the sea ; nor did all the Pacific contain such wealth as that one wee drop . 
Ahab turned . 
for forty years has Ahab forsaken the peaceful land , for forty years to make war on the horrors of the deep ! 
Aye , I widowed that poor girl when I married her , Starbuck ; and then , the madness , the frenzy , the boiling blood and the smoking brow , with which , for a thousand lowerings old Ahab has furiously , foamingly chased his prey -- more a demon than a man ! 
what a forty years ' fool -- fool -- old fool , has old Ahab been ! 
how the richer or better is Ahab now ? 
-- lower not when I do ; when branded Ahab gives chase to Moby Dick . 
But Ahab 's glance was averted ; like a blighted fruit tree he shook , and cast his last , cindered apple to the soil . 
Is Ahab , Ahab ? 
Ahab crossed the deck to gaze over on the other side ; but started at two reflected , fixed eyes in the water there . 
Soon that peculiar odor , sometimes to a great distance given forth by the living sperm whale , was palpable to all the watch ; nor was any mariner surprised when , after inspecting the compass , and then the dog-vane , and then ascertaining the precise bearing of the odor as nearly as possible , Ahab rapidly ordered the ship 's course to be slightly altered , and the sail to be shortened . 
cried Ahab , flattening his face to the sky . 
Ahab had now gained his final perch , some feet above the other look-outs , Tashtego standing just beneath him on the cap of the top-gallant-mast , so that the Indian 's head was almost on a level with Ahab 's heel . 
cried Ahab , hailing the perched men all around him . 
`` I saw him almost that same instant , sir , that Captain Ahab did , and I cried out , '' said Tashtego . 
Soon all the boats but Starbuck 's were dropped ; all the boat-sails set -- all the paddles plying ; with rippling swiftness , shooting to leeward ; and Ahab heading the onset . 
`` An hour , '' said Ahab , standing rooted in his boat 's stern ; and he gazed beyond the whale 's place , towards the dim blue spaces and wide wooing vacancies to leeward . 
In long Indian file , as when herons take wing , the white birds were now all flying towards Ahab 's boat ; and when within a few yards began fluttering over the water there , wheeling round and round , with joyous , expectant cries . 
Their vision was keener than man 's ; Ahab could discover no sign in the sea . 
The glittering mouth yawned beneath the boat like an open-doored marble tomb ; and giving one sidelong sweep with his steering oar , Ahab whirled the craft aside from this tremendous apparition . 
The bluish pearl-white of the inside of the jaw was within six inches of Ahab 's head , and reached higher than that . 
And now , while both elastic gunwales were springing in and out , as the whale dallied with the doomed craft in this devilish way ; and from his body being submerged beneath the boat , he could not be darted at from the bows , for the bows were almost inside of him , as it were ; and while the other boats involuntarily paused , as before a quick crisis impossible to withstand , then it was that monomaniac Ahab , furious with this tantalizing vicinity of his foe , which placed him all alive and helpless in the very jaws he hated ; frenzied with all this , he seized the long bone with his naked hands , and wildly strove to wrench it from its gripe . 
At that preluding moment , ere the boat was yet snapped , Ahab , the first to perceive the whale 's intent , by the crafty upraising of his head , a movement that loosed his hold for the time ; at that moment his hand had made one final effort to push the boat out of the bite . 
Meanwhile Ahab half smothered in the foam of the whale 's insolent tail , and too much of a cripple to swim , -- though he could still keep afloat , even in the heart of such a whirlpool as that ; helpless Ahab 's head was seen , like a tossed bubble which the least chance shock might burst . 
And though the other boats , unharmed , still hovered hard by ; still they dared not pull into the eddy to strike , lest that should be the signal for the instant destruction of the jeopardized castaways , Ahab and all ; nor in that case could they themselves hope to escape . 
Meantime , from the beginning all this had been described from the ship 's mast heads ; and squaring her yards , she had borne down upon the scene ; and was now so nigh , that Ahab in the water hailed her ; -- `` Sail on the '' -- but that moment a breaking sea dashed on him from Moby Dick , and whelmed him for the time . 
The Pequod 's prows were pointed ; and breaking up the charmed circle , she effectually parted the white whale from his victim . 
Dragged into Stubb 's boat with blood-shot , blinded eyes , the white brine caking in his wrinkles ; the long tension of Ahab 's bodily strength did crack , and helplessly he yielded to his body 's doom : for a time , lying all crushed in the bottom of Stubb 's boat , like one trodden under foot of herds of elephants . 
`` The harpoon , '' said Ahab , half way rising , and draggingly leaning on one bended arm -- `` is it safe ? '' 
The eternal sap runs up in Ahab 's bones again ! 
At the well known , methodic intervals , the whale 's glittering spout was regularly announced from the manned mast-heads ; and when he would be reported as just gone down , Ahab would take the time , and then pacing the deck , binnaclewatch in hand , so soon as the last second of the allotted hour expired , his voice was heard . 
In this way the day wore on ; Ahab , now aloft and motionless ; anon , unrestingly pacing the planks . 
Ye two are the opposite poles of one thing ; Starbuck is Stubb reversed , and Stubb is Starbuck ; and ye two are all mankind ; and Ahab stands alone among the millions of the peopled earth , nor gods nor men his neighbors ! 
cried Ahab , after allowing a little space for the light to spread . 
-- Ahab will dam off your blood , as a miller shuts his water-gate upon the stream ! '' 
Whatever pale fears and forebodings some of them might have felt before ; these were not only now kept out of sight through the growing awe of Ahab , but they were broken up , and on all sides routed , as timid prairie hares that scatter before the bounding bison . 
For as the one ship that held them all ; though it was put together of all contrasting things -- oak , and maple , and pine wood ; iron , and pitch , and hemp -- yet all these ran into each other in the one concrete hull , which shot on its way , both balanced and directed by the long central keel ; even so , all the individualities of the crew , this man 's valor , that man 's fear ; guilt and guiltiness , all varieties were welded into oneness , and were all directed to that fatal goal which Ahab their one lord and keel did point to . 
cried Ahab , when , after the lapse of some minutes since the first cry , no more had been heard . 
It was even so ; in their headlong eagerness , the men had mistaken some other thing for the whale-spout , as the event itself soon proved ; for hardly had Ahab reached his perch ; hardly was the rope belayed to its pin on deck , when he struck the key-note to an orchestra , that made the air vibrate as with the combined discharges of rifles . 
cried Ahab , `` thy hour and thy harpoon are at hand ! 
Unmindful of the tedious rope-ladders of the shrouds , the men , like shooting stars , slid to the deck , by the isolated backstays and halyards ; while Ahab , less dartingly , but still rapidly was dropped from his perch . 
Ahab 's boat was central ; and cheering his men , he told them he would take the whale head-and-head , -- that is , pull straight up to his forehead , -- a not uncommon thing ; for when within a certain limit , such a course excludes the coming onset from the whale 's sidelong vision . 
But skilfully manuvred , incessantly wheeling like trained chargers in the field ; the boats for a while eluded him ; though , at times , but by a plank 's breadth ; while all the time , Ahab 's unearthly slogan tore every other cry but his to shreds . 
Seizing that opportunity , Ahab first paid out more line : and then was rapidly hauling and jerking in upon it again -- hoping that way to disencumber it of some snarls -- when lo ! 
Caught and twisted -- corkscrewed in the mazes of the line , loose harpoons and lances , with all their bristling barbs and points , came flashing and dripping up to the chocks in the bows of Ahab 's boat . 
Seizing the boat-knife , he critically reached within -- through -- and then , without -- the rays of steel ; dragged in the line beyond , passed it , inboard , to the bowsman , and then , twice sundering the rope near the chocks -- dropped the intercepted fagot of steel into the sea ; and was all fast again . 
While the two crews were yet circling in the waters , reaching out after the revolving line-tubs , oars , and other floating furniture , while aslope little Flask bobbed up and down like an empty vial , twitching his legs upwards to escape the dreaded jaws of sharks ; and Stubb was lustily singing out for some one to ladle him up ; and while the old man 's line -- now parting -- admitted of his pulling into the creamy pool to rescue whom he could ; -- in that wild simultaneousness of a thousand concreted perils , -- Ahab 's yet unstricken boat seemed drawn up towards Heaven by invisible wires , -- as , arrow-like , shooting perpendicularly from the sea , the White Whale dashed his broad forehead against its bottom , and sent it , turning over and over , into the air ; till it fell again -- gunwale downwards -- and Ahab and his men struggled out from under it , like seals from a sea-side cave . 
As with Fedallah the day before , so Ahab was now found grimly clinging to his boat 's broken half , which afforded a comparatively easy float ; nor did it so exhaust him as the previous day 's mishap . 
But when he was helped to the deck , all eyes were fastened upon him ; as instead of standing by himself he still half-hung upon the shoulder of Starbuck , who had thus far been the foremost to assist him . 
`` Aye aye , Starbuck , 't is sweet to lean sometimes , be the leaner who he will ; and would old Ahab had leaned oftener than he has . '' 
-- But even with a broken bone , old Ahab is untouched ; and I account no living bone of mine one jot more me , than this dead one that 's lost . 
Nor white whale , nor man , nor fiend , can so much as graze old Ahab in his own proper and inaccessible being Can any lead touch yonder floor , any mast scrape yonder roof ? 
-- What death-knell rings in it , that old Ahab shakes as if he were the belfry . 
Ahab is for ever Ahab , man . 
'T is Ahab -- his body 's part ; but Ahab 's soul 's a centipede , that moves upon a hundred legs . 
But ere I break , ye 'll hear me crack ; and till ye hear that , know that Ahab 's hawser tows his purpose yet . 
`` And as mechanical , '' muttered Ahab . 
Meantime , of the broken keel of Ahab 's wrecked craft the carpenter made him another leg ; while still as on the night before , slouched Ahab stood fixed within his scuttle ; his hid , heliotrope glance anticipatingly gone backward on its dial ; sat due eastward for the earliest sun . 
cried Ahab ; but the whale was not yet in sight . 
Here 's food for thought , had Ahab time to think ; but Ahab never thinks ; he only feels , feels , feels ; that ` stingling enough for mortal man ! 
Even Ahab is a braver thing -- a nobler thing than that.Would now the wind but had a body ; but all the things that most exasperate and outrage mortal man , all these things are bodiless , but only bodiless as objects , not as agents . 
Steering as she had done , the wind had been somewhat on the Pequod 's quarter , so that now being pointed in the reverse direction , the braced ship sailed hard upon the breeze as she rechurned the cream in her own white wake . 
cried Ahab , advancing to the hempen basket . 
`` Aye , aye , sir , '' and straightway Starbuck did Ahab 's bidding , and once more Ahab swung on high . 
But at last , some three points off the weather bow , Ahab descried the spout again , and instantly from the three mast-heads three shrieks went up as if the tongues of fire had voiced it . 
No such green weather stains on Ahab 's head ! 
Aye , aye , like many more thou told ` st direful truth as touching thyself , O Parsee ; but , Ahab , there thy shot fell short . 
In due time the boats were lowered ; but as standing in his shallop 's stern , Ahab just hovered upon the point of the descent , he waved to the mate , -- who held one of the tackle-ropes on deck -- and bade him pause . 
-- cried Ahab , tossing the mate 's arm from him . 
But Ahab heard nothing ; for his own voice was high-lifted then ; and the boat leaped on . 
But these were the first sharks that had been observed by the Pequod since the White Whale had been first descried ; and whether it was that Ahab 's crew were all such tiger-yellow barbarians , and therefore their flesh more musky to the senses of the sharks -- a matter sometimes well known to affect them , -- however it was , they seemed to follow that one boat without molesting the others . 
sees ' t thou that sight , oh Ahab ! 
The boats had not gone very far , when by a signal from the mast-heads -- a downward pointed arm , Ahab knew that the whale had sounded ; but intending to be near him at the next rising , he held on his way a little sideways from the vessel ; the becharmed crew maintaining the profoundest silence , as the head-beat waves hammered and hammered against the opposing bow . 
cried Ahab to the oarsmen , and the boats darted forward to the attack ; but maddened by yesterday 's fresh irons that corroded in him , Moby Dick seemed combinedly possessed by all the angels that fell from heaven . 
The wide tiers of welded tendons overspreading his broad white forehead , beneath the transparent skin , looked knitted together ; as head on , he came churning his tail among the boats ; and once more flailed them apart , spilling out the irons and lances from the two mates ' boats , and dashing in one side of the upper part of their bows , but leaving Ahab 's almost without a scar . 
Lashed round and round to the fish 's back ; pinioned in the turns upon turns in which , during the past night , the whale had reeled the involutions of the lines around him , the half torn body of the Parsee was seen ; his sable raiment frayed to shreds ; his distended eyes turned full upon old Ahab . 
those boats are useless now ; repair them if ye can in time , and return to me ; if not , Ahab is enough to die -- Down , men ! 
Ahab , '' cried Starbuck , `` not too late is it , even now , the third day , to desist . 
And at last when Ahab was sliding by the vessel , so near as plainly to distinguish Starbuck 's face as he leaned over the rail , he hailed him to turn the vessel about , and follow him , not too swiftly , at a judicious interval . 
And still as Ahab glided over the waves the unpitying sharks accompanied him ; and so pertinaciously stuck to the boat ; and so continually bit at the plying oars , that the blades became jagged and crunched , and left small splinters in the sea , at almost every dip . 
-- But who can tell '' -- he muttered -- `` whether these sharks swim to feast on the whale or on Ahab ? 
At length as the craft was cast to one side , and ran ranging along with the White Whale 's flank , he seemed strangely oblivious of its advance -- as the whale sometimes will -- and Ahab was fairly within the smoky mountain mist , which , thrown off from the whale 's spout , curled round his great , Monadnock hump ; he was even thus close to him ; when , with body arched back , and both arms lengthwise high-lifted to the poise , he darted his fierce iron , and his far fiercer curse into the hated whale . 
As both steel and curse sank to the socket , as if sucked into a morass , Moby Dick sideways writhed ; spasmodically rolled his nigh flank against the bow , and , without staving a hole in it , so suddenly canted the boat over , that had it not been for the elevated part of the gunwale to which he then clung , Ahab would once more have been tossed into the sea . 
But when Ahab cried out to the steersman to take new turns with the line , and hold it so ; and commanded the crew to turn round on their seats , and tow the boat up to the mark ; the moment the treacherous line felt that double strain and tug , it snapped in the empty air ! 
Ahab staggered ; his hand smote his forehead . 
Slope downwards to thy depths , O sea , that ere it be for ever too late , Ahab may slide this last , last time upon his mark ! 
Oh , Ahab , Ahab , lo , thy work . 
Why fly ye not , O Ahab ! 
cried Ahab from the boat ; `` its wood could only be American ! '' 
Diving beneath the settling ship , the whale ran quivering along its keel ; but turning under water , swiftly shot to the surface again , far off the other bow , but within a few yards of Ahab 's boat , where , for a time , he lay quiescent . 
Ahab stooped to clear it ; he did clear it ; but the flying turn caught him round the neck , and voicelessly as Turkish mutes bowstring their victim , he was shot out of the boat , ere the crew knew he was gone . 
A sky-hawk that tauntingly had followed the main-truck downwards from its natural home among the stars , pecking at the flag , and incommoding Tashtego there ; this bird now chanced to intercept its broad fluttering wing between the hammer and the wood ; and simultaneously feeling that etherial thrill , the submerged savage beneath , in his death-gasp , kept his hammer frozen there ; and so the bird of heaven , with archangelic shrieks , and his imperial beak thrust upwards , and his whole captive form folded in the flag of Ahab , went down with his ship , which , like Satan , would not sink to hell till she had dragged a living part of heaven along with her , and helmeted herself with it . 
It so chanced , that after the Parsee 's disappearance , I was he whom the Fates ordained to take the place of Ahab 's bowsman , when that bowsman assumed the vacant post ; the same , who , when on the last day the three men were tossed from out the rocking boat , was dropped astern . 
