`` Locke ! '' 
exclaimed the farmer , emerging , at this juncture , from the bushes on the opposite side of the fire , and going up and peering into the steaming kettles , `` why , Locke , what have you been about ? 
Locke , bring us a clean tub to turn it into , and we will see what can be done with it . '' 
Have you any milk or eggs for cleansing , Locke ? '' 
He got that from his mother : her maiden name was Locke . '' 
But do n't you think of giving him an education ? '' 
why I amgiving him one . 
He attends our district school regularly every winter . '' 
`` Then I say , No ; I intend him for a farmer . '' 
During the foregoing dialogue between Mr. Amsden and his guest , -- who stood over the kettle of boiling sugar , occasionally dipping into it with their slender wooden spoons or paddles , to sip the pure liquid , or the less cloying sweet of the snowy scum continually gathering in concentric and surgy lines around the point of ebulition , -- Locke stood like one spell-bound to the spot , eagerly drinking in the words and opinions of the courteous stranger , who had so eloquently expressed the feelings of his own breast , and given a definite shape to many a confused idea of a similar bearing , which had often risen in his own mind . 
`` Come , Locke , '' said Mr. Amsden , raising aloft his skimmer , from which each falling drop was followed by a fine , silken harl , that stiffened and shivered in the breeze ; `` come , it throws off the hairs pretty smartly , I see ; we may as well call it done , I think . 
And hav ` nt you a tin cup or something , Locke , into which you can take some by itself to carry to the gentleman 's little girl ? 
This breaking the ice of his bashfulness , Locke soon found himself engaged with his fair friend in a sociable conversation , which was maintained on her part with that sort of unconscious frankness , or forwardness , perhaps we might say , which characterizes the manners of the sex at the age of the one in question . 
`` O , no , no , sir , '' quickly interposed Locke , as the gentlemen was opening his purse . 
Is it not so , Locke ? '' 
`` Well , I would be a scholar , Locke , if I was you , '' added Mary , with charming naïveté ; and if you will , and come and keep school where I live , I will go to school to you , and become a great scholar too , if I can . '' 
Theaccidental call of the travellers at the house of the farmer , as narrated in our opening chapter , formed an era in the life of Locke Amsden . 
By that call , new thoughts had been suggested to his mind -- new feelings and hopes awakened in his bosom ; and , as the slumbering energies of his intellectual and moral nature became thus aroused , young ambition began to point him upward to the temple of science , over whose distanced-hallowed pinnacles floated the mystic banner of fame . 
Then came the inspiriting words of the beautiful little being , who , in angel shape , had thus appeared in his path to incite him onward ; and , `` I would be a scholar , Locke , '' continued to ring in his ears . 
Wondering what might be the contents of the box , the receipt of which was so unexpected to him , though partly anticipating the source from which it must have come , Locke flew for his hammer , and knocked off the cover ; when , to his joyful surprise , he found the box filled with books , upon the top of which lay a neatly folded and superscribed little billet , directed to himself . 
Eagerly snatching up the paper , he opened it , and read , in the finely-traced characters of an unsettled female hand , the laconic contents : -- `` A lot of old , musty volumes , in return for your nice little present . 
From what we have already shown the reader of the character and inclinations of Locke , it may be easily imagined with what rapture he doted on this munificent and appropriate present , not only from its intrinsic value , and the untold advantages which he was to reap from it , but for the fair giver , and her prompting father , by whom it had been so delicately and flatteringly bestowed , -- with what pleasure he looked forward to the time when he should be allowed to devote himself wholly to the great , but coveted task , which , in these books , he now saw set before him . 
But , although this course was a source of constant pleasure to Locke , not so did it soon become to his honest but simple-minded father , who , rightly enough attributing his son 's growing inadvertencies in business to these books , often wished , in his heart , the whole collection at the bottom of the sea . 
And these inadvertencies , which so naturally grew out of the course he was pursuing , were , it must be confessed , not unfrequently of a character to cause vexation to a business man of a less petulant turn than Mr. Amsden . 
All these , as innocently done as they were , cost him , as may well be supposed , many a scolding and fretful expostulation from his impatient and driving father , who , as the season of out-door labor drew to a close , expressed himself heartily thankful that the time for beginning the winter school had at length come , that Locke 's body might now go where his head and heart had been all summer . 
That other personage was the schoolmaster , who -- his acquirements , as usual with the mass of our district-school teachers , being confined to common arithmetic , grammar , and the like , without the ability to illustrate one half of the principles even of these -- viewed with considerable alarm , at the outset , the formidable-looking books which Locke had brought into the school with the avowed intention of pursuing the studies they contained . 
And he made several attempts to draw the other from his purpose . 
Common arithmetic , said he , should first be thoroughly studied , and all the sums worked over and over , till they were as familiar as the alphabet . 
Locke , in reply , said he should like to have a sum pointed out to him in any of the arithmetics which he could not already do ; though , if the master would illustrate to him the rules of allegation and double position , he would like to listen , as he did not quite understand all the reasons for the results of these two rules . 
In answer to this , Locke proposed to submit himself to an examination ; being able , as he believed , to answer every ordinary question that could be raised , either on the maps or in the text-book . 
Being foiled in these and every other attempt of the kind , the master concluded to let Locke go on in his chosen pursuits unmolested ; and right thankful would he have been for a reciprocation of the favor . 
This , however , as with reason he had feared , was not granted him by the unconscious object of his dread , who soon called on him for explanations of problems or principles , of which he knew about as much as the man in the moon ; but of which he had unwisely determined to conceal his ignorance , lest it should be said in the district , that there were scholars in the school who knew more than their master . 
At another time , he would take the book , look over the difficult passage , and , handing it back to Locke with a knowing smile , advise him to try it again ; he would soon see the only difficulty , and it would be better for him to discover it for himself . 
And at yet another , when hard pressed for assistance , he would read the problem in question several times , and after glancing at the context till he had got the run of the technical terms , proceed with a pretended explanation , for which neither himself , pupil , or any one else , could ever be any the wiser . 
For Locke , finding himself unable to make any thing out of the man , even when he was successful enough to get him to look at his studies , came , after a while , to the conclusion to let him entirely alone , and depend only on himself for mastering the difficulties which he met in his progress . 
Locke and this man , by that sort of intellectual free-masonry which passes among sympathetic minds , were not long , when the opportunity occurred , in finding each other out , and forming a close intimacy . 
Locke , in return , brought the other his books , which , to the extent of more than half of them , at least , he had never seen ; and which , being loaned him , he fell to studying with boyish enthusiasm . 
No sooner was this singular companionship thus fairly established , than our boy-hero was found , every rainy day , and at other times when he had finished his tasks , during the summer and fall , posting off on foot to commune and practise with his gray-headed brother in science . 
And Locke , bidding his old friend farewell , took home his books for the purpose of resuming his studies in the winter school , for the beginning of which the time had now arrived . 
But in this purpose he was for some time doomed to be disappointed . 
For the true secret of the misfortune at length leaked out ; when the discovery was made , that Locke Amsden had , in fact , been the innocent and unconscious cause of the whole of it . 
He , it appeared , besides annoying his own teacher with questions too hard for him , had also been the means of a similar annoyance to many other teachers of the neighboring districts . 
He had been in the habit , the preceding winter , of frequently attending the evening spelling-schools , which it was customary for the instructors in that section of the country to appoint and hold at intervals , through the whole term of their engagements . 
And at each of these evening schools , which he thus went abroad to attend , he was sure to propose to one or two of the best scholars , for answer , some difficult point in grammar , some mathematical question of his own originating , or , as was more generally the case , such as he had met with in his studies , and was anxious to see explained . 
And the same questions , also , besides being agitated in the schools into which they were first introduced , were often communicated to other schools , and thus became a source of trouble to other masters ; so that , in this way , there was scarcely a teacher , anywhere in the vicinity , who had not experienced the inconvenience of Locke 's scholarship and inquiring disposition ; and most of them , though they prudently kept the fact to themselves , fairly wished him out of the country , and secretly resolved never to be caught engaging to instruct any school where he should be a pupil . 
It appeared , therefore , that the failure of the committee , before mentioned , was occasioned , not by there being bad scholars in the school , but good ones ; or rather one , whose aptitude and acquirements had made him so much the dread of the schoolmasters , with whom the country then happened to be favored , as effectually to keep them out of the district . 
The disappointment thus occasioned the district , however , as vexatious as it was to Locke at the time , was , like many other disappointments in life , of which we are wont to complain , destined , in a short time , to prove a blessing , not only to him , but to the whole school . 
But all the larger boys and girls clamored ; Locke electioneered as if life and death hung on the event ; and his mother , whose influence was generally felt in the neighborhood , when she chose to exert it , went round to see other mothers , who , being either convinced by her arguments in favor of the cause she had espoused , or tired of having their noisy children any longer at home , beset their husbands to beset the committee ; and the result was , that the committee , unable to stem the current thus brought to bear against them , started off , and engaged the young gentleman , whose name was Seaver , at his own price . 
The next Monday morning , to the great joy of Locke , he appeared on the ground , and commenced the duties of his school . 
The instruction of a teacher of the character we have just described , was a new thing to Locke Amsden . 
And it is needless for us to say , perhaps , how the advantages thus furnished him were improved . 
The first week he spent in looking up , and obtaining from his teacher , explanations and illustrations of all the knotty points which he had left unmastered in his course of mathematics . 
When all these were clearly understood and familiarized to his mind , he commenced , in good earnest , his onward progress . 
Day and night , almost unceasingly , applying every energy of his mind , he soon finished what remained yet to be studied of the ordinary course of mathematics , and thence passed on into and through physics , or natural philosophy , astronomy , and even a considerable portion of fluxions , with a rapidity and comprehension of what he passed over , which perfectly astonished his instructor ; who , unwilling to check him in a career where he was accomplishing so much which was important , and which is so often neglected after the pupil is put upon more seductive studies , had thus far suffered him to bestow nearly his undivided attention to the branches we have enumerated . 
And , fired with new zeal at the prospect , our young aspirant , as he was thus made to see before him `` Alps on Alps arise , '' After the termination of this school , Locke found himself in a different situation from what he had ever been in before , at least , since he had begun the work of self-education . 
The books which had been presented him by the kind strangers -- around whose fondly-remembered images , fancy , as he grew older , was daily throwing a more romantic interest -- had all been studied , and their contents mastered ; and , as he was unable to procure others upon those branches which he next wished to peruse , he now found himself without any food for his hungering mind , or at least such as would satisfy a mind like his , whose desires , instead of being appeased , were now tenfold increased . 
And from this state of unsatisfied longings , without employment for his mental energies in the present , and without hope to encourage him to look forward with certainty to any period when his inclinations could be gratified in the future , fancy began to obtrude her illusive creations into those chambers of thought which before had been devoted to the operations of reason . 
He became absent , moody , and despondent , and was fast falling a prey to a morbid imagination -- a malady than which , for strong and sensitive minds , nothing scarcely is more to be dreaded ; for `` Woe to the youth whom Fancy gains , Winning from Reason 's hands the reins ; Pity and woe for such a mind Is soft , contemplative , and kind . '' 
In vain did his father attempt to rouse him from his almost continual reverie -- in vain attempt to repress those secret desires which he well knew to be the leading cause of his abstraction , and awaken an interest for business . 
But he little understood the nature of the mind he attempted to control ; for as well may we attempt to chain the lightnings of heaven , as the soul really thirsting after knowledge . 
One evening , as Locke sat alone in an open window , vacantly , and in moody thoughtfulness , gazing out at the rising moon , or the stars that were fading in her over-powering beams , his mother gently approached , and took a seat by his side . 
`` Locke , '' said she , in kind and gentle tones , after sitting a moment without appearing to attract the attention of the other , `` Locke , your father complains that you are unusually inattentive to business , this summer . '' 
Well , he is always complaining of me -- Ican do nothing right ; but brother Benjamin -- he can do nothing wrong . '' 
But still , Locke , I fear you have given too much cause for these complaints . 
`` I see , Locke , that your whole heart is set on being a great scholar . 
`` I am , Locke -- I am willing -- even desirous ; but such an education as I fear our means would be sufficient to afford you , would not , I suppose , satisfy you . 
`` Judge not too hastily , Locke ; perhaps he will consent to it . 
But suppose , Locke , I should try to intercede with your father for you , would you take hold of business as you ought , till after harvesting ? '' 
Locke did as his mother had advised ; and , two days afterwards , his father made the glad announcement of the permission which his mother had encouraged him to hope would be granted him . 
From that day , Locke was a new creature . 
As happy as the lark , with which he rose in the morning , he cheerfully and diligently toiled through the day ; giving his undivided attention to any and every kind of work upon which he was requested to engage . 
In this manner passed away the summer season ; and the happy period , which was to reward Locke for his toils , at length approached . 
It was , however , all in vain ; for Locke , steady to his unalterable purpose , would listen to nothing short of the promised year 's opportunity for study . 
And when the day fixed for his departure arrived , he packed up his books and scanty wardrobe , and , bidding the family adieu , set out on foot , with a light heart , for the village where the academy at which he proposed to pursue his studies was located . 
A little more than a day 's walk brought him to his destination , when , to his great joy , he found the institution under the charge of his old teacher , Seaver , who , a month or two previous , at the close of his collegiate career , had been engaged as a permanent preceptor . 
After the close of his year at the academy , young Amsden , who had now shot up into the usual proportions of manhood , returned to his father 's with the intention of commencing a vocation to which he had long looked forward with pleasing solicitude -- that of imparting to others the knowledge which had afforded him so much happiness in acquiring : For , from his childhood upward , he had heard no one employment so much lauded for honor and usefulness , as that of an instructor of youth ; he had seen the same idea reiterated by the most celebrated of authors ; and he had not yet learned , that the world too often applaud most what their practice shows they hold in the least estimation . 
Knowing nothing of the causes which had here led to the recent dismissal of the teacher , nor indeed of the particular character of the school , further than that it was a large one , and one , probably , which , though in rather a new part of the country , would yet furnish something like an adequate remuneration to a good instructor , Locke had no hesitation in deciding to make an immediate application for the situation . 
Accordingly , the next morning he mounted a horse , and set out for the place in question . 
Ascertaining from the remarks of the bystanders his identity with the committee-man he had become so curious to see , Locke fell to nothing his appearance closely , and the result was , upon the whole , a highly favorable prepossession . 
He was a remarkably stout , hardy-looking man ; and although his features were extremely rough and swarthy , they yet combined to give him an open , honest , and very intelligent countenance . 
Behind him , as backers , were standing in a group three or four of his sons , of ages varying from fifteen to twenty , and of bodily proportions promising any thing but disparagement to the Herculean stock from which they originated . 
As soon as all had left the room but Bunker and his sons , Locke , perceiving that the others now seemed to expect an announcement of his business , at once proceeded to make known the object of his visit . 
`` I came for that purpose , sir , '' replied Locke ; `` and I trust to be found qualified for the situation . 
`` I have but little hope , sir , that I shall be considered a proper teacher of your district , '' observed Locke , who had become so much disconcerted by the ominous conduct of the boys , and the remarks of their father of a similar significance , that he now began to think of beating a retreat . 
Now , sir , '' he added , again turning to Locke , `` now , sir , we will come back to your case , if you please -- what will be your price a month , and boarded ? '' 
`` I trust so , sir , '' said Locke , hardly knowing yet what to make of the man , `` I trust so . 
`` I offered the paper only to show my acquirements -- that I understood all the sciences taught in common schools , '' said Locke in reply . 
`` I certainly agree with you in much you have said , sir ; but if you intend to say that book learning , as you would term it , is useless , I must wholly dissent , '' observed Locke . 
The boy despatched soon returned with a full and valuable set of maps , with which , to the surprise of Locke , the owner soon showed himself perfectly familiar ; he , it appeared , having purchased them , some years before , for himself and children , with whom he had studied them , always keeping a boy by his side , when thus occupied , to read him the names of rivers , lakes , & c. , as , one by one , he traced out each on the map with his finger , till he had mastered the whole . 
`` Your method is new to me , Mr. Bunker , '' observed Locke , `` and I shall probably be indebted to you for a new idea . 
`` It may be owing to the difference in the polish of the two blades , perhaps , '' replied Locke . 
`` Your theory is at least a very ingenious one , '' observed Locke , `` and I am reminded by it of another of the natural phenomena , of the true explanation of which I have not been able to satisfy myself . 
`` That is , indeed , a curious and interesting fact in meteorology , '' responded Locke , `` and I can readily see the reason why the indication should generally , at least , hold good . '' 
Locke , after a moment 's reflection and a glance round the room for something to serve for apparatus , took from a shelf , where he had espied a number of the articles , the smallest of a set of cast-iron cart-boxes , as is usually termed the round , hollow tubes , in which the axletree of a carriage turns . 
Then selecting a tin cup , that would just take in the box , and turning into the cup as much water as he judged , with the box , would fill it , he presented them separately to the boy , and said , `` There , my lad , tell me which of these is the heaviest ? '' 
resumed Locke . 
`` You offer to make it so on your part , I suppose you mean to be understood , '' said Locke ; `` for on mine , you remember I told you , some time ago , that I feel unwilling to undertake to govern a school of the character I have discovered yours to be . '' 
It was with these feelings , that , after an interesting hour spent in general conversation , during the preparing and partaking of the substantial meal provided on the occasion , Locke Amsden took leave of his singular host and employer , and departed . 
On his way homeward , young Amsden fell to revolving over in mind the occurrences of the day , dwelling on the unexpected manner in which he had been received and examined , and on the still more unexpected intelligence of the man with whom he had thus come in contact , with the interested and curious feelings of one to whom some new leaf in the book of human nature has been presented for contemplation and study . 
Why , I am sorry you engaged in such a place , Locke . '' 
`` O , I do n't know , '' said Mr. Amsden ; `` they seem rather rough , according to Locke 's story , to be sure ; but it may do him good to place him among folks that will wake him up a little . 
There 's spunk enough in him , if you could get it to the surface , I rather guess . 
At all events , now he has engaged , I would do my best to carry it out , if I was he . '' 
said Locke , smiling good-naturedly at the thought of the other turning adviser in matters of school-keeping . 
`` I shall go on and endeavor to do my duty in a proper and decided manner , '' said Locke , in reply ; `` but to adopt your plan , though it might have its effect for a while , would yet be practising a deception to which I could never condescend . '' 
Ben did not attempt to controvert his mother 's general position , but still manifested a disposition to adhere to his opinion respecting the right and expediency of adopting the particular project he had advanced ; and muttering , `` Well , Locke must be helped for all that , '' fell to musing and devising some means by which his plan might be carried into effect without his brother 's agency ; but , not seeing fit to make known any of his conclusions , his remarks were soon forgotten , and the whole subject being at length dropped , the family retired for the night . 
But however mild his disposition , or unassuming his general demeanor , Locke Amsden was by no means wanting in resolution . 
On reaching the district where he had been engaged , Locke repaired at once to the residence of his employer , at whose house , it had been before arranged , he should first take up his lodgings , as the beginning of that round of boarding through the district , which here , as in many other places , was made to add variety , to say the least of it , to the monotonous life of the schoolmaster . 
He was received with much rough cordiality by Bunker , and with some show of respect by his mastiff-mannered boys . 
While the dinner was preparing , Ben , having departed for the stables , to see to his horse , in company with the boys , with whom he seemed determined to scrape acquaintance , Locke and his host soon became engaged in conversation on those topics in which they had previously discovered themselves to feel a mutual interest . 
`` Ay , '' said Locke , `` but does not your argument run against the abuse of learning , rather than its use ? '' 
`` Your impressions , '' rejoined Locke , `` are , I suspect , by no means uncommon . 
The dinner being now announced as in readiness , Locke went out to call in his brother , whom he at length espied in the yard of a grist-mill belonging to Bunker , and situated at no great distance from his house . 
What might be the nature of his communication , however , Locke , at that time , neither suspected nor ascertained , as he did not go near enough to hear what was said , and as Ben , when questioned on the subject , after joining the other , refused or evaded any direct answer . 
The next morning , after breakfast , as Locke was about to leave for the school-house , for the commencement of his task , Bunker took him aside : -- `` I should like to ask you one question , master , '' he said ; `` and if you answer it at all , which you can do as you like about , I hope you will do it candidly . '' 
`` It was one solely of his own contriving , and used without my knowledge or consent , '' replied Locke , promptly . 
On reaching the school-house , where he found most of the pupils assembled , Locke soon saw indications , which convinced him , that Ben 's bugbear representations , which had been made with so much address and apparent honesty that the truth of them seems not to have been doubted , were already known to every individual in school ; and that , in consequence , he had become , with the younger portion of them especially , the object of a terror which he little thought it would ever be his lot to inspire . 
In all these consultations , however , Tom Bunker , whom his father had secretly engaged to take Locke 's part in case of trouble , unexpectedly hung back , telling them they could do as they pleased ; but perhaps they would find out , that they had better let the man alone . 
And such was the effect of the kind and judicious manner which Locke displayed among the rough and uncultured pupils he had undertaken to control . 
But although young Amsden 's school was fast becoming what he had so sedulously labored to make it , and although his pupils had generally , since the expiration of the first half week of their attendance , so far shown themselves disposed to obedience and propriety of behavior , as led him to believe that no attempt would now be made to resist his orders , yet it was not long before he found he should not be permitted to avoid the test to which a master 's firmness and discretion are almost invariably put , in maintaining his authority , at some period or other of his school . 
Something like this was the process which Locke had perceived going on in his school , without knowing exactly where to interpose his authority ; when one , a boy of about fourteen , who had been more forward than others in the course , one day grew so bold as to place his orders at absolute defiance . 
Perceiving at once that his government was at an end , unless the offender was conquered , and indignant at his unexpected audacity , our hero , under the impulse of the moment , was about to chastise him on the spot . 
So strongly , indeed , did these considerations weigh on the mind of Locke , that he at length determined to adopt a different mode of punishing the boy in question ; and after trying to judge of his own feelings , were he placed in the offender 's situation , as to what course would most conduce to that penitence and humility best calculated for amendment , and calling to mind all he had ever observed of the effects of punishment on others , he at last hit on a plan which he determined to carry into immediate execution . 
`` I wish for no help in the mere chastisement , '' replied Locke ; `` but I think your presence would add much to its beneficial effects , and it is only for your son 's good that I request you to go . '' 
His reluctance having been thus wisely overcome , the father promptly called out his boy , who , not daring to disobey the command which was then given him , followed the two others , in dogged silence , to the school-house . 
On reaching the house , which , as expected and desired , was entirely solitary , Locke raised a light , and proceeded to the painful task before him . 
He first kindly addressed the offender ; and , in a manner calculated to humble without irritating , set forth the probable consequences , both to him and the school , of suffering his offence to pass without punishment , which he had been called there to receive , and then administered a chastisement of adequate severity . 
After this , he was again addressed by his teacher , the father occasionally putting in a word , for nearly an hour , before the expiration of which he gave unequivocal evidence of not only being deeply penitent for the past , but resolved on good behavior for the future . 
All troubles in regard to government being now at an end , and no others being anticipated by Locke , he urged his pupils forward in their studies with all the incitements he could command . 
At all events , he was accused of so doing , in connection with an event which soon occurred , and which came near breaking up his school . 
Old Winter had taken his January nap . 
And having protracted longer than usual his cold , sweaty slumbers , he had now , as if to make amends for his remissness , aroused himself with a rage and fury which seemed to show his determination to expel the last vestige of his antagonistic element , heat , that had thus invaded and for a while disarmed him , for ever from his dominions . 
Among the latter was the case of the only son and child of a poor , but pious and intelligent widow , by the name of Marvin , which excited in the bosom of Locke feelings of the deepest sorrow for the misfortune of the boy , and sympathy in the affliction of his doating parent . 
`` He is , '' replied Locke ; `` and I can hardly express how much anxiety I feel for his situation , which I fear you will pronounce dangerous . '' 
said Locke , in surprise ; I was not aware that there was to be one . '' 
As soon as he had done this , Locke , whose mind was still running upon the inexplicable news he had just heard from the woman , again turned to her , and asked if she knew whether Mr. Bunker had returned from the journey on which he had been for the last fortnight absent . '' 
`` Well , I am thankful for that , if he has indeed arrived , '' replied Locke , who felt anxious for the presence of his friend at the approaching meeting . 
Locke immediately complied with the request ; and as he turned his ear towards the rapidly-moving lips of the delirious boy , he could soon distinguish `` six times six are thirty-six -- seven times six are forty-two -- eight times six are forty-eight , '' and so on . 
Sometimes he would follow one figure in this manner through all its successive multipliers , in the usual table , and then take up another , follow it awhile , and suddenly drop it for a third , which in turn , perhaps , would be relinquished for some attempted process in subtraction or division ; in all of which he seemed to be constantly meeting with troubles and perplexities , with which he would appear to contend awhile , and then return to his old starting point in the multiplication table , and with freshened impulse hurry on with `` six times six are thirty-six -- seven times six are forty-two , '' & c. & c. , till something again occurred to turn his bewildered mind from the course it was mechanically pursuing . 
exclaimed Locke , as , with a sigh and starting tear , he turned away from the affecting spectable . 
As soon as Locke had helped his friend , the doctor , to a seat , and taken one near by for himself , he cast a leisurely look round the assembly . 
It required neither much time nor closeness of observation to apprise him that there was a great deal of suppressed , excited feeling prevailing generally among the company . 
Nor was he much longer in satisfying himself , from the words which occasionally reached his ears , from little knots of eager whisperers around him , and from the many cold and suspicious glances he encountered , that a great portion of this feeling was unfavorably directed against himself , the cause of which he was still unable to conjecture . 
`` I motion Deacon Gilchrist be Moderator of this meeting , '' said one , bobbing half-way up , and hastily squatting back to his seat , before the sentence was fairly out of his mouth . 
`` I am not so sure but they will need a moderatorbefore they get through , '' whispered the doctor to Locke , emphasizing the word so as to give it a literal signification . 
And the chairman , who was evidently a secret favorer of the project , jumped up to put the question ; when Locke , who had witnessed the movement with the utmost surprise , rose and demanded the reasons which the mover asserted he had for his proposed measure . 
was the only reply which Locke received to his reasonable demand . 
Locke could hardly bring himself to reply to this ridiculous charge , or even to answer the particular question that he had been thus publicly called on to answer . 
He did so , however , by briefly stating that he knew of no such art . 
He had heard , indeed , that the faculty of foretelling events , fortunes , and the like , was supposed to be attainable by figures . 
And he recollected , as he commenced arithmetic when a mere boy , indulging a sort of vague expectation that he should come across this art , if he went far enough . 
But the further he advanced , the more did he see the impossibility of acquiring any such faculty by the use of figures , which , more peculiarly than any other science , discarded all suppositions , and had to do only with certain demonstrable facts . 
And now , having studied or examined , as he believed , nearly all of that science that had been published , he was fully prepared to say that the belief in the faculty in question was wholly a delusion . 
Locke gave himself up as lost , and a few minutes more would , indeed , have been decisive of his doom , but for the unexpected arrival of a new personage . 
This arrival very visibly disconcerted the deacon 's party , and produced a dead pause in their proceedings , during which the former marched boldly up to Locke , and gave him one of those hearty and cordial shakes of the hand , which send assurance to the desponding heart , and are more gratefully felt , on some emergencies , than a thousand expressed pledges of friendship , on others . 
The doctor , then , while every ear and eye were regarding his words and movements with intense interest , called on Locke to ascertain the number of cubic feet contained in the empty space of the room . 
A carpenter present , who happened to have a bundle of his tools with him , having called into the meeting while on his way home from some finished job , produced a rule , and took the different dimensions of the apartment with great exactness ; when Locke , from the data thus furnished , quickly ascertained and told off the number of cubic feet , as required . 
`` Both Locke and Bunker , the latter of whom now began to be in his element , almost the next instant gave the same answer -- eight hundred and thirty-two feet . 
Locke -- who felt both pained and chagrined , that his inattention to this matter , in which he so well knew all the principles involved , should have so nearly led to disastrous consequences , and whose active mind , having seen through the whole subject at a glance , the moment the doctor put him on the track , had long since been engaged in devising a ready remedy for the discovered evil -- here interposed , and suggested that an opening made in the centre of the ceiling , would best effect the object in view . 
`` Well , Mr. Moderator , '' said the deacon 's tormenter , the rustic humorist , we mean , who was the first to take up for Locke in the debate , and who now seemed greatly to enjoy the triumph of the latter over the little clique of his chopfallen foes -- `` Well , Mr. Moderator , how is it about the old boy and his little blue influences , now ? 
Compared with the trials , vexations , and labors of the past , he now found but a path of flowers . 
The recent misfortune in his school , and the consequent infatuated movement to overthrow him , operating as all overwrought persecutions usually do , instead of injuring him , were the means of turning the popular current strongly in his favor , and of giving him a place in the estimation of nearly all around him , which he otherwise would have failed to obtain . 
Being no further troubled with the injudicious interference of parents , or the misbehavior of their children , -- those two evils which too often require the best part of a teacher 's time and attention to meet and overcome them , -- he had nothing to do but instruct his pupils . 
A new standard of taste and merit , in short , had been imperceptibly raised among them ; and the winter that Locke Amsden kept school became an era in the district , from which commenced a visible and happy change in the whole moral and intellectual tone of its society . 
Nor were the advantages which attended his exertions in this place wholly on one side . 
Locke thanked him for the option , and instantly decided to depart . 
His decision , however , was not grounded on any dislike to an agricultural life ; for , on the contrary , he ever thought highly of that healthful and noble avocation , which so early received the signal sanction of Heaven . 
And ever since that charmed hour in which he listened to the glowing picture of the life of the scientific farmer , drawn by the stranger gentleman , whose visit , with that of his bright-eyed daughter , was still secretly cherished in remembrance , as an event which first fairly apprised him he had a mind to be expanded , and a heart to be affected , he had determined eventually to return to that life . 
But Seaver , who felt a pride in the thought of furnishing the institution of which he was a graduate , with a scholar of Locke 's excellence , and believing , moreover , that he should be promoting the best interests of the latter , now began to beset him to make up his mind to leave the academy and enter college , by joining , if he preferred , such of the upper classes as his qualifications should be found to warrant . 
`` Have you yet concluded , '' said the friendly preceptor , coming to repeat his advice one day , some two or three months from his pupil 's return to the academy , -- `` have you yet concluded , Mr. Amsden , to follow my suggestions with regard to entering college ? '' 
`` No , '' replied Locke , `` my means are too limited ; and were it otherwise , your academy furnishes me with all the advantages which I at present desire , and more than I can fully improve . 
The objected want of pecuniary means having been obviated by the proffered assistance of the generous and high-minded friend who had induced him to take the step , -- Amsden , after a few days spent in preparation , and in writing to apprise his friends of his change of purpose , set out for the college to which he had been recommended by his preceptor , and for which his course of studies more particularly fitted him . 
Reaching the institution , after little more than a day 's journey , he immediately presented himself for examination ; when , having been found amply qualified , he was permitted to unite himself with the Sophomores , at a time when they had been nearly two years in college . 
And , within a fortnight from the time of the conversation above detailed , he might have been found within the classic walls of his newly adopted Alma Mater , burning , in his eager pursuit of knowledge , the midnight oil , where But alike vain and thankless would be the attempt to interest the general reader in a description of the seemingly dull and unvaried routine of a life of study . 
Upon inquiry of the bustling keeper of the inn where he stopped , Locke was told that the village school had not yet been supplied with a teacher ; and that the managing committee , consisting of the merchant of the place , the tailor , and the newspaper editor -LRB- for a political newspaper , called The Blazing Star , had just been established in this miniature city -RRB- , `` were now on the look-out to engage a man of those splendidest qualifications which the growing importance of the place demanded . '' 
As soon , however , as Locke announced his name and business , he suddenly became much less profuse of his bows and smiles , and , assuming a consequential air , observed , -- `` Why , sir , we are not over-anxious to engage a teacher just now -- though , to be sure , we have so many applications pressing upon us , that we shall be compelled to decide soon . 
`` As far as I could see changes to be improvements , I certainly should follow them , '' replied Locke . 
An understanding , and mechanical skill of execution , of the principles of penmanship , I consider of the first importance ; and , these attained , it may be be lastly important that the pupil be instructed in book-keeping , '' answered Locke , without observing the air of pique which became visible in the countenance of the interrogator at this answer . 
`` I have never , '' replied Locke , utterly surprised that a test-question of this kind should be put to him , `` I have never , till within the present year , been qualified by age for a voter . 
Mr. Blake here being not so prompt as usual in taking the lead , Amsden briefly but clearly explained the first principles of English Grammar , the object and uses of that branch , and his manner of teaching it by the text-books of Murray and others . 
`` Why , that would be nearly as difficult to tell , I imagine , as regards all the fundamental rules , as it would be to point out the most useful wheel of a watch , in which all the wheels are required to keep the whole in motion , '' replied Locke . 
asked Locke , quite innocently . 
This inquiry , as reasonable and fair as was its obvious object , produced , as a close observer might have easily seen , considerable sensation in the before well-assured mind of Locke 's exulting competitor ; and his uneasiness was the next moment increased into downright apprehension , by a remark of the tailor , who , in a rather hesitating manner , said , -- `` Why , there 's the minister that preaches half the time here -- and he 's now in the place , I guess . 
Meanwhile Locke , who was travelling horseback , but too well anticipating the result of the deliberation just described , had ordered his horse to the door , and stood impatiently waiting for some sign or message from the white house , which should apprise him of the decision of the committee . 
The message came even sooner than he expected , and was delivered by the boy literally , and no less cavalierly than it was indited by his master . 
Locke had , thus far , had no acquaintance with aught but country life , with which he had been accustomed to associate ideas of comparative ignorance and degradation , while his mind had been directed to villages and cities , as the exclusive seats of intelligence and refinement . 
For he had not learned that the people of cities and villages , as a mass , are , generally , less thinking , and often , less reading communities , than those formed of the residents of the country , who , finding themselves outshone by the former in external appearance , are thus driven to depend more on intrinsic qualities on which to base a reputation , leaving the others to dazzle by show , and , too often only , It was not very strange , therefore , that with impressions and views like those just named , contracted through a limited knowledge of the world , young Amsden should have presented himself at Mill-Town with a high opinion of the intelligence of its inhabitants , or that his disappointment should be great at finding things so exactly the reverse of what he had anticipated . 
A knowledge of the world as it is would have taught him that what he had witnessed was no miracle , even in the most favored parts of our land of boasted intelligence ; and it might have taught him also , that he who would succeed must always , in some measure , adapt the means he employs to the compass of the minds of those with whom he desires success . 
As Locke was slowly jogging onward , deeply engrossed in reflections which grew out of the occasion , and no less deeply dejected in spirits at the dark and discouraging prospects before him , he met a man in a sulky , who , in passing him , suddenly halted , and pronounced his name . 
Looking up at the traveller , now for the first time , the former at once recognized him to be no other than Dr. Lincoln , the kind and gifted physician , with whom he had formed so interesting an acquaintance at his school in the Horn-of-the-Moon . 
Struck with the kind interest which the other seemed to take in his concerns , Locke proceeded to give him a minute detail of all the circumstances attending his application for the school in the village he had just left , his examination , and the result of the whole affair . 
And having thus secured the feelings and prejudices of the committee for himself , he appears fairly to have exemplified , with them , the truth of another line of the same writer , by making `` Impossibilities seem just . '' 
`` I know not where to look , or what to do , '' replied Locke , despondingly . 
`` I would , '' replied Locke , `` if you were to be the examining committee . '' 
exclaimed Locke , unable to conceal the pleasure that this unexpected announcement occasioned him . 
This family belonged to the school district in which Locke Amsden was now engaged as a teacher for the ensuing winter ; but , being above patronizing a common school for the purposes of educating their children , Mr. and Mrs. Carter , or rather Mrs. Carter , in conjunction with two or three other wealthy families of similar views , had established a private school , or select academy , as they called it , which was designed to afford the means of what they chose to term a genteel education , leaving the district schools of the village to be attended by the children of less distinguished families , and all those who had tastes for nothing better . 
Towards night on the day previous to the one appointed for entering upon his engagement , young Amsden arrived in the village to which we have just introduced the reader , and immediately repaired to the residence of his employer , Dr. Lincoln . 
But to whom belongs that large house , up yonder , observed Locke , pointing to a castle-like building , standing on an eminence , a little aloof from all others . 
`` I had looked to see things different here , '' remarked Locke , glancing round the room , as they entered it . 
`` Well , I wonder , '' remarked Locke , now laughing heartily at the satirical hit of the other , `` I wonder , in view of the other conveniences of the house , how the matter of ventilation came ever here to be thought of , as it appears to have been , by that contrivance for lowering the upper sashes of the windows ? '' 
`` Perhaps not , in this old house , '' said Locke ; `` but in a new one , which you will build here soon , I conclude , you will probably have this attended to , as well as several other improvements , which should be made in the interior of most of our school rooms ; for I think you must agree with me , doctor , in the opinion that our school-houses are , generally , but illy adapted to the purposes for which they are , or should be intended . '' 
After Lincoln had taken Locke to the quarters he had engaged for him , and introduced him there , the two returned to the house of the former , where they found waiting for them an excellent supper , that was partaken with a keen appetite , and enlivened by a conversation of that easy , elevated , and sparkling character , which persons of intellect and attainments can always so easily get up , and which such only know how to appreciate and enjoy . 
Onrepairing to his school-house , the next morning , for the purpose of commencing his winter 's task , Amsden unexpectedly found , among the pupils there assembled , and awaiting his coming , one whose appearance instantly attracted his attention , and awakened in his bosom a lively and peculiar interest . 
said Locke , who , though now satisfied of the identity he had been secretly trying to establish , was yet reluctant to let the subject drop . 
Amsden now was quite willing to let the subject rest ; and , after some further conversation on indifferent topics , he bade the other good night , and departed . 
On entering his school-room the next morning , a little before the usual time of opening his school , Amsden was agreeably surprised to find the fair object of his yesterday 's solicitude already there , engaged upon her studies . 
Feeling himself now , by the discoveries he had made last evening , measurably relieved from the embarrassment which had kept him aloof the day before , he no longer hesitated to approach her , pay his respects , and make inquiries respecting the studies she proposed to pursue . 
His advances being here met with unaffected kindness and respectful courtesy , he soon ventured to allude to the circumstance of their former meeting , at his father 's ; and he felt not a little gratified and flattered to find that all the little incidents connected with that brief visit were fresh in her recollection . 
She had even learned his subsequent history , almost to the present time , from a mutual acquaintance of both , who had formerly attended Seaver 's academy . 
With regard to the general character and condition of the school of which he had taken charge , Amsden found matters much as his employer had represented . 
In the government of his school -- so far , at least , as respected a disposition to acknowledge and obey his authority generally -- he experienced , it is true , no difficulty with his pupils . 
With all these obstacles before him , it was some time before Amsden , with all his tact and perseverance , could succeed in confining his pupils to methods of study which promised any real improvement . 
And if he succeeded in doing that , he found it no less difficult to excite in them an interest in their studies sufficient to insure an application productive of any important results . 
At length , however , by extraordinary exertions , he so far overcame the difficulties with which he had to contend , as to command the attention of his pupils , and to raise , in most of them , some little ambition to press forward in the path of improvement . 
But , aware that much remained to be done , and being sensible at the same time that but few scholars will long persevere in attempts which the exertions of a teacher , only , have induced them to make , unless they expect their labors will be rewarded by the encouragement and approbation of those to whom they are in the habit of looking for every thing else in life , his next step was to enlist the interest of the parents in his school , and thus secure their cooperation in bringing about the desired object . 
With this end in view , he at first made an effort to induce the parents and guardians of the district to make individual visits to his school . 
But , meeting with no other success in this attempt than what consisted of promises , reluctantly given and invariably broken , he next determined to appoint a particular day for the reception of visiters , and to prepare his scholars for going through such interesting exercises on the occasion , as should furnish an additional inducement for the invited , at least , to attend . 
In pursuance of this plan , he fixed on a future day for what he concluded to call a public examination of his school . 
And , having caused information of the appointment to be spread through the neighborhood , he began to make arrangements for the purpose among his pupils , and to exhort them to the use of such diligence in their studies as should enable them to acquit themselves creditably before the expected assemblage . 
And , in the two weeks that intervened before the day of the proposed examination , they had made such progress that their teacher began really to feel very proud of his school . 
As the appointed day drew near , Amsden , to make doubly sure of a general attendance , was at the pains of calling on most of the parents and guardians of his pupils , to remind them of the time when the contemplated performances were to take place , and to urge them to be present . 
And so well did he prosper in obtaining individual promises of attendance , that he supposed there could be , this time , scarcely a possibility of a failure . 
His scholars , in the mean time , were full of ambition . 
He seemed to have succeeded , at last , in infusing into them a portion of his own spirit and enthusiasm for learning . 
Every thing went swimmingly on ; and he felt himself justified in looking forward with certainty to the brightest results from the operation of his plan . 
As Amsden 's examination was to begin only an hour before the time fixed on for opening these shows , and be resumed in the evening , for which the most interesting exercises , such as the reading of original compositions , declamations , and the speaking of a few select dialogues , were reserved , -- it barely occurred to him that the coincidence might possibly be perhaps a little unlucky , as a very few unthinking persons , who otherwise might come to swell his audience , would , likely enough , be led away to witness the trumpery tricks of the juggler . 
frequently reached Amsden 's ear from excited groups that were eagerly discussing the subject near the door ; and on passing round among the seats just vacated , he saw the word Potterwritten on this slate , Potteron that copy-book , and Potter , with his hat full of chickens , pictured out on the wall . 
All this looked rather ominous , to be sure ; and Locke began to tremble for the credit of his pupils : but , believing they would be brought to their senses by the presence of the company , now shortly to assemble , he restrained his anxieties , and awaited , as patiently as he could , the hour set for commencing the exercises , and the arrival of the spectators . 
At half-past two it was still the same ; and the anxious teacher , now becoming really alarmed on a point on which before he had not suffered himself to entertain a single doubt , began to glance uneasily through the windows , and keep an eager ear listening for the approach of footsteps at the door . 
But he looked and listened in vain . 
Locke , at the time previously set for the purpose , had commenced his examination , and thus far continued on with it , in the most unimportant parts of the exercises ; but the business dragged every moment more and more heavily , and it now became obvious that the school could not much longer be kept together . 
The next morning , on his way to his school , Locke encountered his friend and employer , Dr. Lincoln , and related to him the mortifying occurrences of the day previous . 
He had long entertained similar views himself , and had laid out his course with reference to them . 
But he was by no means prepared for the obstacles and discouragements by which he found his path beset ; and he was beginning to look on the prospect before him with a cold and doubtful eye . 
The wise and timely counsels of his employer , however , encouraged and reässured him , and he again returned with patient determination to his task . 
He now found , indeed , that patience and determination were alike needed by him , while trying to revive , in his pupils , the interest and ambition which he had succeeded in raising in them , previous to the failure of the little plan we have described . 
But although Amsden had at last found himself in a fair way of surmounting the obstacles that had here impeded his success as a teacher merely , yet there were , in the mean time , other trials attending his situation , which he was left to experience , and which he felt none the less keenly , for being compelled to endure them in silence . 
If the neglect and lack of interest which the inhabitants had exhibited towards his school had caused him so much chargin and disappointment , it is natural to suppose that a still greater neglect of himself , in all those little courtesies and marks of respect which are usually extended to all respectable members of society , would not long escape his notice , or fail to make him feel unpleasantly . 
Spruce mechanics and their journeymen frequently received their invitations ; the pert merchant 's clerk was sure to be remembered ; even Locke 's older pupils were not neglected , and sometimes , indeed , they were sought out and invited before his face . 
Nobody seemed to be aware that he was born with social feelings , or that he had any sort of claim to mingle in society , like other people ; and , throughout the whole , he was never complimented with a single invitation . 
At first he did not pay any attention to this circumstance ; or , if he did , he concluded it arose from some excusable inadvertence . 
But , being generally apprised of these assemblages , the next day after their occurrence , when he was often asked why he had not attended , the constant repetition of the neglect at length forced itself upon his observation , and caused him more pain than he would have been willing to confess . 
Let it not be supposed , however , that the unpleasant feelings he thus experienced arose from the disappointment of any particular wish he had to mingle in fashionable society . 
For , believing with his favorite poet , that -- `` e ` en while Fashion 's brightest arts decoy , The heart , distrusting , asks if this be joy , '' he felt conscious that he should have little relish for its frivolities and amusements . 
No , it was not this that disquieted him ; but it was the inference , the unavoidable inference , which he drew from the circumstance , that caused the pang ; awakening reflections as wounding to his sensibilities , as they were discouraging to his prospects , in the path of life he had marked out for himself . 
Dit it grow out of the narrow jealousy that there was any thing relating to his manners , his person , or his poverty , that had shut him out of society ? 
By no means ; for his dress was good , his person what few could boast of , and his manners -- he had no manners , he never tried to form any , but was wisely content with the unsophisticated demeanor of his childhood , which let his native benevolence , his kind and cheerful disposition , his strong sense and ready perception , shine out undisguised and clearly , and find their way , as they did , to every heart not foolishly shut by the conventional restrictions of modern society ; while they imparted to his appearance an ease and dignity that fitted him for every company . 
It was the low estimation in which , he could not but perceive , the occupation of the common teacher was held by the public ; an estimation , which , besides depriving that teacher of half the very influence he is expected to exercise over the minds of the young , virtually ostracises him from society , and leads even parents to place him whom they intrust to form the minds and characters of their own children for life -- to place him , unconsciously , we hope -- upon a level with the servants of their kitchens and the grooms of their stables ! 
But is the example , which his case exhibits , a solitary one ? 
On entering the house , he was no less gratified than surprised to find his fair favorite , Mary Maverick , standing by the pillow of the invalid , soothingly ministering to her necessities and comforts . 
A slight tinge of color overspread her sweetly eloquent countenance , as , inviting him to a seat near the sick-bed , she expressed her happiness at seeing him so mindful of the situation of their suffering friend . 
After witnessing the broken but heartfelt outpourings of gratitude of the poor woman to her kind benefactress , Locke offered to attend the latter to her home ; and , the offer being accepted , the couple left the humble abode , and were soon at the door of the princely mansion of the Carters . 
Perceiving at once the character of his reception , Amsden felt at a loss to decide for himself whether silence , speaking , or an abrupt departure , were the course demanded of him ; but , in his hesitation , he adopted the former , and sat , as did the rest of the company , some moments , without uttering a word . 
He had been secretly nettled that Miss Maverick , whose good-will , but for his interest to pay his court in other quarters , he would have gladly obtained , -- that Miss Maverick should leave his school for another which he had so affected to despise . 
And his animosities , as is often the case with base and contemptible minds , settled on the person who had won , and , in spite of all the pains he had taken to frustrate it , continued to retain his pupil . 
In addition to this source of dislike , the growing estimation in which his rival 's school was held had lately begun to alarm him for the safety of his hitherto undisputed dominion over the wealthy and fashionable part of the village . 
And he had therefore determined to lose no opportunity to disparage the man who was now before him . 
`` The propriety of this , '' replied Amsden , thus insolently challenged to defend his course , `` is sufficiently obvious from Miss Maverick 's own acknowledgment , that she did not fully understand some of the first principles on which the sciences she had attempted are based . 
But , though evidently disconcerted , he contrived to conceal his feelings , under an affected disdain to offer at this time any rejoinder -- leaving his fair worshippers now to take up the discourse . 
`` And there are again those , you might justly add , sir , '' promptly rejoined Locke , `` whom you can never impress with any sense of the beauties of the sound sciences , for the reason that they do not understand them . '' 
And , hastily gathering up his hat , gloves , & c. , from the table by which his rival had been sitting , he moved towards the door with the show of departing , when the three sisters with one accord rushed after him , and begged of him , for their sakes , to remain . 
And Amsden , to relieve the company from his presence , rose to depart . 
And this coin , when the former came in , had been left on the table at which the professor and his fair friends had been sitting , and by the side of which , when the position of the company became thus changed , Locke happened to be placed . 
But , although Amsden was made , for a while , to suffer , in the minds of many , by this pitiful conspiracy , intended to put the finishing touch to the other means which had been used to disparage and destroy him , he was yet destined soon to be exonerated from every injurious impression , in a manmer , which , had revenge been any part of his nature , would have afforded him all the triumph he could have desired over his despicable foe . 
Amsden was instantly sent for , and in a few minutes made his appearance . 
`` My temper has been sadly ruffled , Mr. Amsden , '' said the doctor , pointing the other to a chair beside him . 
inquiringly replied the former , in surprise ; for he knew not for what purpose he had been summoned . 
Locke read the billet , part of it , at least , with the utmost astonishment . 
`` I have , '' replied the latter , as he inspected the piece with a look of joyful surprise . 
`` Ay , ay , '' said Locke , laughing ; `` but we will leave it to the professor to chant the elegy , if such sad consequences are to follow from his own acts . 
The note was completed , and immediately sent off to its destination by one of the servants of the house ; when Locke and his friend separated , to await with patience , and silently , the result of their movement . 
He was alone in his room when the doctor 's servant entered and delivered Amsden 's letter , which , as he knew the servant , he received with rather a doubtful and uneasy expression . 
And no sooner was the messenger 's back turned , than he tore open the note , and eagerly ran over its contents , at which his usual air of swaggering assurance instantly forsook him . 
Crumpling up the paper , and thrusting it into his pocket , he rose , and for some moments paced the floor in visible agitation . 
`` Perhaps it is not too late to defeat him now , '' he at length began to think aloud . 
So saying , he threw his gaily-tasselled cloak over his shoulders , and took his way to the shop of the jeweller , whom he found preparing to retire for the night . 
As the reader may have perhaps already anticipated , the disgraceful flight of Tilden , and the disclosures that followed , respecting not only his character and false pretensions , but the base slanders he had originated , operated as a proud triumph to Amsden and his school . 
And if such be the effect -- as under favoring circumstances it often is -- of a contrast between the demerits of one , and the mere negative qualities of another , in conferring character on the latter , it would be strange , indeed , if the operation of this principle , under circumstances so well calculated to call it into action , did not greatly tend to bring one of Amsden 's high desert into notice , and place him on the elevation to which his merits entitled him . 
The period for which Amsden had concluded to continue his instructions had at length drawn to a close ; and the time had arrived when he was called to that interesting yet mournful task for a teacher -- the parting with his pupils , on the last day and hour of his school . 
Both of these cases might have been combined at this parting between Locke Amsden and Mary Maverick . 
Heeding not the inquiries that now assailed his ears amidst the creaking of the opening doors , or hastily-raised window-sashes of almost every house around him , Amsden bounded forward by the lurid light that now began to glimmer along the street , with the speed of the wind , towards the spot indicated by this awful and , to him , agonizing announcement . 
Standing at the foot of the ladder , and eagerly examining the disfigured persons of each of the females , as they came down , Amsden uttered an exclamation of despair , on finding , as the last one reached the ground , that she whom he most anxiously sought was not there ! 
burst from his agonized lips , as he cast a wild and frenzied look on those around him . 
Amsden almost instantly gained his feet , and rushed , convulsed and gasping for breath , out of the stifling smoke and heat that encircled the spot , into the fresh air . 
The eyes of all followed him , and many gathered round to hear if he brought hope or information on the subject of the general solicitude . 
He did not , could not , utter words ; but his woe-speaking countenance , as he looked upon the burning pile , and turned hopelessly away from the overpowering sight , told the sad tale that his tongue would have uttered . 
Eager to grasp at every appearance of hope , Amsden turned his eyes to the quarter from which the sounds proceeded , and beheld a small party rapidly approaching , with a long spliced ladder on their shoulders . 
As they drew near , the former unexpectedly recognized , in the burly frame and energetic manner of the foremost , his old friend Bunker , who , it appeared , having been aroused by the alarm from an inn nearly two miles distant , reached by him on a journey , a few hours before , had arrived just as the present emergency arose , and , with a quick glance at the means of relief , ran back to a neighboring barn , where he procured , and hastily lashed together , the implements with which he and others were now rushing forward to the rescue . 
Amsden , who had stood by , watching every movement with an intenseness of anxiety that had deprived him of the power of utterance , now rushed past his brave old friend , and , with a look of mute desperation , rapidly mounted the ladder , and soon disappeared in the smoke , on his perilous destination . 
Before these ominous words were out of the mouth of the speaker , Amsden , who had remained , in the mean time , stationary on his weak and failing support , without stirring a muscle , was rapidly gliding downward , with his still uninjured charge . 
Amsden cast a surprised and inquiring look at the person who had thus unexpectedly appeared with the claims implied by the exclamations just uttered , when he recognized , in his general appearance , the stranger with whom he had so nearly perished in the burning house . 
But the condition in which he now found himself precluded all further thought or inquiry on the subject . 
A strange , giddy , and sickening sensation came over him ; and , staggering , and grasping for something to support him , he was caught by Bunker , who immediately conveyed him , sick and helpless , to his lodgings . 
The unwonted exertions , and the fearful excitement of the night , had been too much for his already debilitated system ; and his failing strength and overtasked nerves had given way together . 
He rapidly grew worse , and , before morning , was delirious with a raging fever . 
For more than a fortnight , in despite of the daily , and often hourly attendance of the assiduous and skilful Lincoln , and the unwearied ministering of the kindest of friends , lay Locke Amsden ; his prostrate body the helpless and almost hopeless prey of disease , and his sympathizing mind the sport of those troublous and distressing fantasies of the fevered brain , which we can name as such , but never describe . 
It was the beginning of the third week from the night which proved so eventful to the leading personages of our story , that Amsden , after several hours of calm and refreshing slumbers , awoke in full possession of his reason . 
at length he faintly uttered . 
A slight rustling in the room now attracted his attention ; and , turning his head , he caught a glimpse of a female figure , quietly gliding out through the door . 
In a moment more the door was reöpened , when a matronly-looking woman entered , and , approaching the bedside of the evidently surprised invalid , gently asked , -- `` Locke , do you know me ? 
`` I came nearly ten days ago , to nurse you , Locke . 
interrupted Locke ; `` O -- why , I now recollect . 
observed Locke , thoughtfully ; `` and what a strange reversal of fortunes has a few days brought about between the dependent , and I fear misused , Mary Maverick , and the vain and haughty Carters ! 
Well , Mary , I suppose , is considered a wealthy heiress now , '' he added , with a sigh . 
O Locke ! '' 
Amsden possessed a sound and vigorous constitution ; and so rapid was his recovery , that , in one week from the time at which the delirium left him , he was able to leave the house . 
During the whole period of his convalescence , he had seen nothing of Colonel Maverick or his daughter ; the former having recently become too much indisposed to appear abroad , and the latter making that circumstance an excuse for the sudden discontinuance of those calls which were so frequently repeated so long as her friend was considered in danger . 
As they entered , Colonel Maverick , who was reclining on a sofa with a newspaper in his hand , instantly rose , and greeted Amsden with a warmth and cordiality which abundantly made good the assurance that his daughter had just uttered . 
The colonel , though thin and sallow , from the effects of his long residence in a tropical climate , and though troubled with a bad cough , to remove which , he was now confining himself within , under a course of medical treatment , appeared so much better than his visiter expected , that the latter soon forgot the apprehensions which Dr. Lincoln had excited , relative to the situation of the former , and gave himself up to the delights of a conversation which now ensued among the happy group , and to which the pleasant remembrances of the past , the grateful and gratified feelings of the present , and the congenial tastes of the parties , all combined to impart a reciprocal interest . 
And when , with a feeling of surprise , he perceived the unwelcome shadows of evening stealing over the landscape , and warning him that the time at which he had proposed to return had arrived , he wondered how the winged hours could have flown so quickly . 
Now , reluctantly rising with the intention of bidding his kind entertainers adieu , he proceeded to announce to them , with an effort at calmness which he was far from feeling , his previously formed determination of leaving town the next morning , on his long-delayed return to his college studies , upon the last term of which his class had , many weeks before , entered . 
And , if you must go , '' he continued , advancing and offering his hand in a kind , feeling manner , `` I will bid you , with many good wishes for your welfare , a good-bye for the present , but for the present only . 
Reciprocating the kind wishes of his almost revered friend , and bidding him , as he supposed , an adieu , at least for months , Amsden left the room for another parting , in which he felt far less prepared to act his part ; for Mary , who had not uttered a word during the foregoing dialogue , now attended him , in silent agitation , to the door . 
he said , with an effort , as he paused at the threshold , and took her trembling , but frankly-offered hand . 
She raised her eyes inquiringly to his , but read there that which caused her to drop them again instantly to the floor . 
he repeated , after a hesitating pause , `` your circumstances in life , since our last parting , have become much changed . '' 
once more began Amsden ; but as he glanced in thought at his own situation in life , and her altered condition , he could not go on . 
And she drew him , hesitating and irresolute , back towards the room they had just left ; and the next moment they stood before Colonel Maverick , who , though evidently surprised , yet welcomed their return with an affectionate smile . 
`` I am much gratified at your course , my daughter , '' interposed the colonel ; `` but proceed , '' he continued , turning encouragingly to the embarrassed lover ; `` proceed , Mr. Amsden . '' 
The few weeks now remaining to bring him to the close of his collegiate career rolled rapidly away ; when , with the highest honors of the institution , and the distinguished esteem of his fellows , he left this spot of hallowed associations , and flew back , as if on the fleet wings of love , to the scene where his affections had learned to cluster ; and where the wedded felicity , that now speedily succeeded to the happy and deserving pair , who became its mutually blest recipients , was only clouded by the event which had hastened their union , -- that of the still gradually failing health of the accomplished and high-minded Colonel Maverick , whom his sorrowing children were , in a few months , called on to bear to the silent tomb ; a bereavement for which they felt themselves but poorly compensated by the ample fortune he left them , not only to ensure the means of their own comfort and happiness , as far as such means have effect , but to enable them to become , as they soon did , the dispensers of comfort and happiness to others individually , and of general usefulness to the society at large , of which , ere long , they were the acknowledged ornaments . 
