``` Jesus , the Nazarene ! ' 
`` We both promised to remember this name ; and as our way to Jerusalem lay through Bethany , we wished much to call and see him ; but this step the young man mildly objected to , until , he having made known our wishes to him , he then might , if he desired to see us , send into Jerusalem for us to go to Bethany . 
`` Jesus , of Nazareth . '' 
And now , my dear father , comes to be related the most extraordinary thing that ever took place in Israel , and before human eyes , and which it must be clear to you bears unquestionable testimony , that Jesus of Nazareth , the noble stranger baptized in Jordan , and to whom John bore witness , is truly Messias , the Son of God . 
Please , my honored and beloved father , please to consider impartially the things of which I have written , the preaching of John , and his baptism of Jesus , whom , before ten thousand people he declared to be Messias , to whom he bore witness , and how the voice of God , as audible in the ears of all as that which shook Horeb , proclaimed from heaven that he was `` His beloved son ! '' 
In believing Jesus of Nazareth to be the Messias of God , I do not make myself less a Jewess ; but , without believing it , my dear father , I could not be completely a Jewess . 
If not , then , and we alone look for him , and every mother in Israel hopes tremblingly , with joy and doubt , that he may be found in her first-born son , is it that I am less a Jewess , or rather that I am only a true Jewess , when I believe Jesus to be the Messias , seeing in Him all that a Messias could bring , even the voice of God in testimony of His Mission ? 
You will not hear them only from my letters , dear father , for the report of these wonders is broad-cast over the land , and men who witnessed the baptism of Jesus , will , no doubt , report in Egypt what then took place , especially the voice of God rolling like articulate thunder along the cloudless sky , and the descent of the fiery dove upon the head of the new Prophet . 
But the light which descended was the most dazzling that human eyes ever encountered ; and though when descending with the velocity of lightning , it seemed like a lance of fire ; yet , upon reaching the bared head of Jesus , as He came forth out of the water , it assumed , as I before stated , the shape of a dove ; and , resting upon Him , overshadowed Him with its wings of light , and cast over his whole person a glittering splendor , like the sun . 
The brilliancy of the light from the dove was so resplendent that I could not behold it ; and when I looked again it had disappeared ; but a halo of softened lustre shone still around the head of Jesus , and his face , like that of Moses , emitted rays of glory . 
While thousands either stood stupefied , or fell upon their faces in adoration and fear , He withdraw himself from the multitude , no one knew how , save two persons , whose eyes never wander from him . 
He looked constantly around for Jesus , and then , with his hands clasped together and uplifted , gazed heavenward , as if satisfied , with the thousands around him , that he had been received up into Heaven . 
The excitement which the sudden disappearance of Jesus produced , led to a universal separation of the multitude , who dispersed in all directions , some to seek for Him , some to spread the news of what they had seen , and all forgetting John , whom they had hitherto followed , in the greater splendor of the new Prophet , whose advent had been so remarkably accompanied by fire and a voice from the sky . 
Rabbi Amos and our party remained standing near the water , for he did not wish us to be lost in the retiring throngs , and he desired to speak with John , who stood alone in the midst of the water , precisely where he had baptized Jesus . 
Not one of his disciples remained with him . 
The impression seemed to be that Jesus had gone up into Heaven . 
It affected us all deeply ; and we sat together late at night upon the porch under the fig trees , talking of Jesus , and the things that had transpired concerning Him that day ; and though we all rejoiced that He was on earth , we wept to think that He was driven by some destiny unknown and unfathomable by us , to dwell alone in the wilderness . 
As we sat up late conversing upon the remarkable events of the day , an observation made by John , when speaking of the change in the face of Jesus , that `` His visage was marred more than the sons of men , '' led the venerable Gamaliel to say to us : `` Those are the words of Esaias , and are truly spoken of Messias , when He shall come . '' 
At hearing this great and good man thus discourse , dear father , my heart sank within me ; for I could not but confess that these prophecies of honor could not apply to the humble person John had baptized ; for Lazarus had already told us that his friend Jesus was of humble birth , a carpenter 's son , and his mother a widow ; that he had known him from boyhood , but known him only to love him . 
I now looked towards him , but I took courage when I saw that the words of Gamaliel did not in the least dim the light of his faith and confidence , which sparkled in his eyes , that his friend Jesus was truly Messias of God . 
Show me that this Jesus , the Nazarene , fulfills both conditions in his own person , and I will prepare to believe in him . '' 
But immediately Lazarus rose to his feet and said : `` Although I did not before know of this prophecy , that Christ was to be born in Bethlehem , yet I am overjoyed to find the fact respecting Jesus fulfills it . 
He wasborn in Bethlehem of Judah . 
During the days when Cesar Augustus issued a decree that all the world should be taxed , his mother , and Joseph her husband went up to the city of David to be taxed , which is Bethlehem , and there Jesus was born , as I have often heard from her lips . 
`` Admitting , then , that he was born in Bethlehem , '' said Saul , who appeared to be much given to argument , `` you have to prove his lineage from David 's line . '' 
`` Wherefore did his parents go to Bethlehem , David 's city , unless they were of his royal line ? '' 
`` Every one born in the city of David , '' remarked Gamaliel , `` is not of necessity of David 's house ; but it is surprising if this Jesus was born in Bethlehem . '' 
`` But may not his lineage be ascertained without a doubt from the records of the tribes , and of their families , kept by the command of the law in the Temple ? '' 
`` And if you find that they do , '' asked John , with emotion , `` can you doubt any longer whether Jesus be the Christ ? 
asked Mary , with feeling , for she as strongly believed that Jesus was the Christ as I did , and she was pained by so many doubts , and such subtlety of objection from those who were so learned in the Prophets . 
Thus you see , my dear father , that even on the very day of these events by eye-witnesses themselves , there is much difference of opinion concerning who Jesus is ; and therefore I do not expect you , who are so remote from the scene , and who know them only by report , to believe all at once , as I myself do . 
Lazarus has returned to Bethany , where his occupation demands his attendance ; but his friend John remained with us , having agreed with Lazarus that he would go into the desert and not give up his search for the Divine Prophet , Jesus , until he had found him ; for both young men feel as sad as if they had lost a beloved and honored brother . 
You are willing to admit that Jesus may be born at Bethlehem , for many whom you know `` who are not prophets , neither sons of prophets , were born there . '' 
You are willing to admit that he `` may be of the lineage of David , for David 's descendants are as numerous as they are poor and obscure , yet they are not Messias , nor pretend to be Christs . '' 
Here I am content , my dear father , to let it remain , being fully persuaded that though this humble young man , Jesus , hath come lowly and obscure , yet He will prove himself to the world that He is the true Messias , Christ of God . 
Now , my dear father , let me resume the interesting subject , of which my letters have been so full ; and , moreover , as you have desired me still to keep you informed of all that transpires touching Jesus of Nazareth , and as no theme upon which I can write is so pleasing to me , I will narrate all that I have heard since I last wrote to you . 
For five weeks after we reached Jerusalem , we heard nothing of Jesus until John re-appeared . 
He and Lazarus came into the city together , and to the house of Rabbi Amos . 
`` Jesus in the desert ; and when I remember him there , I shall forget to smile more . '' 
`` I turned , and beheld Jesus advancing . 
He was pale , and wore an expression of gentle , uncomplaining suffering , on his benign countenance . 
His calm , chastened , dignified aspect , the serene composure and peace of his looks , awed me , while they caused me to love him . 
I hastened to meet him , and was kneeling in joy at his feet , when He embraced me as a brother , and said , ` Faithful , and full of love , wilt thou follow me ? ' 
They met and parted like strangers , John going away across Jordan into the wilderness , as Jesus entered the village of Bethabara ; and approaching the house of a widow , where he abode , He went in and we followed him , and took up our abode with him . 
Upon this , there was a tumultuous assembling together of the Priests in the porch of the Temple , and with many invectives they agreed to send answer to Pilate that they did not acknowledge Jesus of Nazareth to be the Christ . 
They were led to this the more urgently , inasmuch as they feared an arrest of Jesus would give the Romans occasion for arresting other Jews , and so bring on the nation great troubles ; just as , a few years ago , when a certain impostor rose up and called himself the Christ , the Romans were not satisfied with taking and destroying him , but they punished with fines every city in Judah . 
Therefore the Priests both denied to the Procurator any knowledge of Jesus , and entreated him not to pay any attention to him , till indeed he should find that he openly took the lead of armed men . 
Rabbi Amos informed us that the Procurator had got some news by a courier that morning , that Jesus , on his way to Cana , had been followed by full a thousand people , who , having recognized him as having seen him baptized of John in Jordan , hailed him as the Christ . 
Rabbi Amos says , the time for the appearing of Christ is come , as all must confess who read the Prophets ; and the only reason that Jesus is not believed to be he , is that he comes in poverty and humility , fasting and suffering . 
Oh , that you could have the faith in Jesus of Nazareth , that He is Messias , that I have , dearest and most honored father ! 
I can give you the particulars best by extracting from a letter written by John to Mary , a few days after his departure to join Jesus at Nazareth ; for John has joined himself to him , and become his disciple . 
`` Upon reaching Nazareth , '' says the letter , `` I was guided to the humble dwelling occupied by the mother of Jesus , by a large concourse of people gathered about it , of whom inquiring , I learned that it was to see the new Prophet they had assembled . 
I asked , wishing to know what the multitude thought of Jesus . 
Hereupon , seeing the faith of many staggered , I said , ` Brethren , Christ is truly of Bethlehem ; and verily Jesus , though He dwelleth in this place , was born in Bethlehem . ' 
`` Hereupon , the Levite , seeing that he had not the people with him , passed on his way , while I went to the door of the house where Jesus dwelt with his mother . 
There were two doors , one of which led into a work-shop , where I noticed the bench and tools of the occupation at which he had toiled to support himself and his mother . 
This sight made me half question whether he who was an humble artisan , whose tools and shop I saw before me , could in truth be the Christ of God , the Prince Messias whom all the patriarchs and prophets looked forward to with the eye of faith , desiring to see his day ! 
`` Of these , one was Andrew , who was , as well as myself , John 's disciple , and we were talking with him when Jesus came forth out of the wilderness . 
Another was Andrew 's brother , whose name is Simon , who hearing his brother speak of Jesus as the Christ , had gone with him to see him ; and had no sooner beheld him than he joined himself to him ; and Jesus , from the firmness and immovable zeal of his character , which He seemed to understand , called him also Peter , or Stone . 
His name was Philip , and he followed Jesus from having been prepared by John the Baptist to receive him . 
` It is Jesus of Nazareth , the son of Joseph , ' Philip answered . 
Nathaniel then went with him where Jesus was . 
When Jesus saw him approaching , He said to those about him , ` Behold an Israelite , indeed , in whom there is no guile ! ' 
Jesus answered , and said , ` Before Philip called thee , when thou wast under the fig-tree , I saw thee . ' 
Upon hearing this , Nathaniel , who knew that he was all alone in his garden , and unseen at prayer , when his brother came , regarded the serene face of Jesus steadfastly , and then , as if he beheld therein the expression of divinity , he cried before all the people , ` Rabbi , Thou art the Son of God ! 
Jesus looked upon him as if pleased at his confession , and said , ` Because I said unto thee , I saw thee under the fig-tree , believest thou ? 
`` These four , Andrew and Peter , Philip and Nathaniel , were then present in the house with him ; and , to my surprise and joy , with them stood my own brother James , whom Jesus had seen on the lake in his boat , and called him , when James left all and followed him . 
The mother of Jesus , a noble and matronly woman , still beautiful , and with a face of the holiest serenity , was present , and gazed with love and tenderness upon her Son , listening to his words , as if she also would learn of him that wisdom which hath descended upon him from above . 
The next day James and I went to the sea of Tiberias , but two hours distant , to see our father Zebedee , and transfer our interests to him ; and , during the afternoon , Jesus passed near the shore on his way to Cana , when , calling us , we left our ships with our father and joined him . 
His mother , and many of her kinsfolk were of the company , all going to a marriage of the cousin of the family . 
Upon our arrival at Cana , we were ushered into the guestchamber , and Jesus , in particular , was received with marked respect by the Hebrew master of the house , though he was an officer in the service of the Romans . 
We here met Elizabeth , the mother of John the Baptizer , who is a relative of Mary , the mother of Jesus . 
``` Ah , ' said the mother of the prophet , as she looked upon Jesus , who was talking with the governor of the feast , ` How blessed art thou , O , Mary , to have thy son ever with thee ! 
The mother of Jesus , who knew that the wine was out , turning to him , said , ` They have no wine ! ' 
for it seems that she knew the power that was within him , though he had not yet manifested it openly . 
I sat next to him , and heard her when she whispered to Jesus . 
He looked grave , and said with a slight tone of respectful reproof , and applying to her that title which we in Judea believe most honorable of all others , ` Woman , ' he said , ` what have I to do with thy private requests for the exercise of my power ? 
`` She then thanked him with deep emotion , and turned to the servants and beckoned to them , while her cheek borrowed a rich color from her hidden joy , and her eyes kindled with the feelings of a mother about to see her son display powers such as only come by the gift of God , and which were to seal Him as a Prophet , before the eyes of Jew and Gentile . 
The face of Jesus , ever calm and dignified , now seemed to express a certain consciousness of power within , that awed me . 
Casting his eyes upon several stone vases , which stood by the door empty , he said to them : ``` Fill the water-pots with water . ' 
``` Draw out now , and bear unto the governor of the feast , ' said Jesus to the servants . 
`` Then the servants and others told that they had filled the six water-pots with water to the brim , at the command of Jesus , and that when they drew out , behold it flowed forth wine instead of water . 
Upon this there was a general exclamation of surprise ; and the governor of the feast crying out , ` A Prophet hath been among us , and we knew it not , ' rose to approach and do honor to Jesus ; but he had already conveyed himself away , rising and passing out through the door , and sought the solitude of the garden . 
Thither I followed him , and worshiping him , sat at his feet and listened to him , while he unfolded to me wonderful things concerning himself , showing that he is truly the Son of God , and the very Christ . 
Doubt not , '' concludes the letter to Mary , `` doubt not that Jesus is the Christ . 
His miracle at Cana , of turning water into wine , is a public display of his divine power . 
All men at the feast have believed on Him , and his fame is spreading abroad throughout Galilee and Samaria . 
He has told me privately that he must soon visit Jerusalem , and he will there openly proclaim his mission as the Christ of God . '' 
In this manner , my dear father , writes the betrothed husband of my cousin Mary ; and I have given you the extract from his letter in order that you may see that Jesus is already attracting great attention , that he has disciples , and that he is by no means poorwho has the power to convert wells of water into wine . 
From this letter you must perceive that Jesus is at least a Prophet , equal to Elijah , who kept the cruse of the widow of Zarephath . 
If , therefore , you acknowledge this much , you must confess that he is a good man . 
Yet Jesus hath said to John , that He is the Christ ! 
Pardon your daughter for thus presuming to reason with you , but I am so earnest that you should believe , that I sometimes forget the daughter in the disciple of Jesus . 
As for my uncle , the good and learned Rabbi Amos , he is more than half his disciple ; and I have no doubt that when Jesus shall present himself in Jerusalem , and he can see him and hear his divine teachings , he will cast off all prejudice and become his follower . 
My Dear Father : -- You will not require the testimony of my letters to enable you to appreciate the fame of the wonderful young man of Nazareth , Jesus , who is daily proving himself a Prophet indeed , and mighty before God , showing all the people that God is with Him . 
Hearing of the fame of Jesus , he was seized with a strong desire to have him perform a miracle upon him . 
For this purpose , he begged money from the priests as they went by to the Temple , but though some gave , all laughed , saying that he could not be cured , inasmuch as one of his limbs was withered . 
All the city flocked to behold him ; and he related how that when he had reached Capernaum , where Jesus was , the crowd was so great that his bearers could not for some time get near him . 
At length Jesus moved on , healing the files of sick as he passed through them , at a word . 
`` Seeing me , '' said the man , `` he fixed his eyes upon me , and said , calling me by name : ``` Great is thy faith . 
John who follows Jesus everywhere he goes , and is a witness of all that he does and teaches , writes to Mary , that `` the sick and afflicted from all parts of the land of Galilee , from Decapolis , from Jerusalem , from beyond Jordan , even from Lesser Asia , come to him . 
When my beloved master , '' he writes , `` comes forth from a synagogue , where he has been reading the Prophets to the people , who hear him gladly , I have beheld two hundred persons , the lame , the palsied , the withered , the blind , the possessed of devils , and persons afflicted with all manner of diseases , laid in rows before the gate of the synagogue , awaiting his coming forth . 
Jesus at length appears , and upon seeing his face , that ever expresses holy benignity and innate power , they set up touching cries of the most thrilling appeal for his aid , and such appeals are never uttered in vain . 
Going through the rows of beds and litters , He lays his hand upon some , speaks a word to others , touches the eyes of the blind and the ears of the deaf , lays his hand gently upon the head of the lunatic , and commands in tones of authority the devils to leave the bodies of the possessed . 
And what is extraordinary , '' continues John , the devils always conduct with more terrific violence as he draws near , and while they leave the man with curses , they confess loudly that Jesus is ` the Son of David -- the Son of God ! ' 
When I next write to you , '' continues John , `` I will relate to you , so far as they are understood by me and my fellow-disciples , the things which he reveals respecting himself and the object of his mission on earth . 
Some things , however , are not comprehended by us , but he promises that we shall by and by understand what now appears obscure to us . '' 
Such , my dear father , is the tenor of the letters which my cousin Mary receives from John , the disciple of Jesus . 
They are all filled with accounts of his miracles , of his teachings , and of his journeyings . 
When we shall see Jesus at Jerusalem , I shall be able from personal observation to write to you more particularly concerning his doctrines and miracles . 
That He is the Christ , thousands now believe ; for they ask , very naturally , how could he do these things unless God were with him ? 
Moreover , Phineas , the venerable priest , whom you know , hath borne testimony to the fact , that when Jesus was an infant , during the reign of the elder Herod , there arrived in Jerusalem three eminent princes , men of wisdom and learning . 
He slew them in order that the infant Jesus might be destroyed among them ; for the three wise men , instead of returning through Jerusalem to their own country , and informing him where they had found the child , departed by another way ; and when Herod found that they were gone , he became so enraged , that he sent out a party of troops , under Jeremias their captain , who now liveth to testify , ordering them to slay every child under two years of age in Bethlehem , hoping , as I have said , to kill the infant Jesus among the number . 
`` Hereupon , '' said Rabbi Amos , who gave me the details of the foregoing interview between Caiaphas and Phineas , `` there arose a great uproar , some crying that Jesus was the Christ , and others that Phineas should be stoned to death . '' 
Thus you see , my dear father , how the evidence increases in value and importance , proving Jesus to be the Messiah . 
Now , my dear father , let me sum up the evidences that Jesus is the Messiah . 
First , his presentation in the Temple , when holy Simeon and Anna worshiped and prophesied of him . 
My Dear Father : -- The inquiry you made in your last letter , `` What hath become of John of Jordan , since the fame of Jesus hath so far eclipsed his own ? '' 
But on the contrary , John always plainly declared in his preaching , that `` he was not worthy to unloose the shoe latchet of Him who was to come after him ; '' and he distinctly said many times to all , that `` He to whom I bear witness must increase , but I must decrease ! '' 
The mission on which John came terminated when Jesus came . 
Soon afterwards he left the wilderness and entered Jericho , where Herod was then dwelling . 
Now Herodia , when it was reported to her how that the prophet had publicly spoken against her marriage with Herod , became very angry ; and when she found that John was still favored by her husband , she sent for Herod , and said , `` that if he would please herhe must throw the prophet of Jordan into prison . '' 
All the disciples of the murdered prophet then went where Jesus was preaching and healing , and told him what had been done to John . 
`` When Jesus heard of the death of John he was very sorrowful , '' writes John , his disciple , to Mary , `` and went away into a desert place apart , in order to mourn over the fate of his bold and holy forerunner . '' 
In the meanwhile , the disciples of John Baptist , believing that the murder of their prophet was but the first blow of a general slaughter , fled into the deserts , and sought Jesus to protect and counsel them . 
At length he found himself surrounded by a great multitude , who had fled from the cities , chiefly of John 's disciples , besides many who came to hear him preach , and be healed of him . 
Forgetful of all else , save following Jesus , they were without food . 
`` Which , '' says John , writing to Rabbi Amos , `` we who were his disciples seeing , suggested that Jesus should send them away to the villages to buy themselves victuals . 
But Jesus answered us and said quietly : ``` They need not go away -- give ye them to eat . ' 
Upon hearing this , Jesus said , ` It is enough ; bring them hither to me . ' 
`` We collected the bread and fishes , and I , myself , laid them upon a rock before Jesus . 
He then said to us , ` Command the multitude to sit down on the grass . ' 
And when they were all seated he took the five loaves , and laying his hands upon them and upon the two fishes , he looked up to heaven and blessed them ; and then breaking them into fragments , he gave them to us his disciples , and bade us distribute to the people . 
As often as we would return for more , we found the loaves and the fishes undiminished , and I saw with wonder how when he would break off a piece of one of the fishes , or of a loaf , the same part would immediately be seen thereon as if it had not been separated ; and in this manner he continued to break and distribute to us for nearly an hour , until all ate as much as they would , and were filled ; and when no one demanded more , and he ceased to break , he commanded us to gather up the fragments which lay by his side , which he had piled up about him as rapidly as he broke them off , and they were twelve baskets full over and above what was needed . 
Indeed , so great is the interest here felt to see Jesus and witness his miracles , that where one went to hear John preach in the wilderness of Jordan , ten go to see Christ in Galilee . 
`` If we suffer him to take men 's minds as he doth , '' said Caiaphas to Rabbi Amos yesterday , when he heard that Jesus had walked on the sea to join his disciples in their ship , and stilled a tempest with a word , `` the worship in the Temple will be at an end , and the sacrifice will cease . 
Herod having , as I have said , slain John , and hearing soon after of the fame of Jesus , said to Herodia : `` This is John Baptist risen from the dead , and therefore do mighty works show forth themselves in him . '' 
`` If he rise from the dead threescore and ten times , I will as many times have his head , '' answered Herodia ; whereupon Herod privately sent to Jesus , supposing him to be John Baptist , to keep in the parts of Galilee where he was . 
The Levites and Scribes of the city contend that he is Elias , who it is prophesied must come and restore all things before Messias . 
Others believe that he is Isaiah , or Jeremiah , raised from the dead ; and some say one thing , and others another thing . 
They are willing to believe Jesus to be everything but that which he is , viz. , the true Christ , Son of the Highest . 
This question Jesus himself has answered , says John , when some Rabbis put it to him . 
`` John came in the spirit and power of Elias , and therefore was he thus called by the prophet , '' was the answer of Jesus . 
I have written to you mainly of the miracles of Jesus , dear father , as being evidences conclusive of his divine power and authority to teach and restore Israel . 
I have said little of his teaching , as I have not yet heard him ; but I have heard those who have listened to him repeat much that he has taught them . 
You may charge me with being enthusiastic , my dear father ; but if Jesus be the Christ , earth has no language that can express the splendor of his reign . 
The occasion of the tumult , which seems to increase each moment , is an extraordinary act of power on the part of the new prophet , Jesus , that name become , by means of my pen , so familiar to you , -- a name at which , I can say without enthusiasm , every knee will yet bow , both of Jew and Gentile ! 
From him we learned that his beloved master , Jesus , had reached Bethany , and was reposing from his fatigues at the hospitable though humble house of Lazarus , Mary and Martha . 
`` Never prophet did the works Jesus does . 
It seems that all power is at his command . 
If you witnessed what I witness daily , as he traverses Judea , you would say that he was Jehovah descended to earth in human form ! '' 
I firmly believe Jesus to be the Messiah , the Son of God . 
`` And yet , '' said Nicodemus , a rich Pharisee who entered as John was first speaking , and listened without interrupting , for it is his wont to come in and out as he will , being a friend of my uncle , `` and yet , young man , I heard you say that Jesus , of whom you and all men relate such mighty deeds , has remained at Bethany to recover from his fatigue . 
This was spoken with a tone of incredulity by this learned ruler of the Jews ; and stroking his snowy beard , he waited of John a reply ; for like many of the chief men , nay , most of them , he was hard to believe all he heard of Jesus ; for as yet he had not seen him ; nor would he be likely to visit him were he to come into the city , in order to see for himself , lest his popularity among the Jews be diminished ; for he is a man of remarkable ambition , and aims one day to be the chief governor of the people ; therefore , though he should really be convinced that Jesus is the Messias , I fear he would not have candor enough , for fear of the Jews , to confess it . 
But John answered him and said : `` So far as I can learn the character and power of Jesus , his power over diseases is not for his own good , but for the benefit of the multitude . 
He uses his power to work miracles to do good to others from love and compassion , and to show forth the divine power in him . 
His miracles are used only as the proofs of his Messiahship . 
Being a man with his divine power dwelling in him , for us , he is subject to infirmities as a man ; he hungers , thirsts , wearies , suffers , as a man . 
John said this so sadly , as if he were repeating the very tones in which Jesus had spoken it , that we all remained silent for a few moments . 
After a full minute 's serious pause , he said : `` This man is doubtless no common prophet . 
`` It was Jesus , the Prophet of the Highest , '' answered he , with solemn gratitude . 
`` Jesus ! '' 
Dost thou doubt now , whether Jesus be the very Christ ? '' 
Jesus then stooped and laid his hand upon my brow , and said , ` Son , arise ! 
As Nicodemus took his leave , I overheard him , congratulating the happy father , say , that he should embrace the first opportunity to have an interview with Jesus ; and when my uncle told him that he hoped to entertain the mighty Prophet as his guest , the Ruler desired permission to visit him here upon his arrival , `` but secretly , '' I heard him add , in Rabbi Amos 's ear , as he took his leave . 
His account was thus : `` The Prophet Jesus having entered into the Temple with the multitudes following him to see what he would do , found all the courts filled with merchants , changers of money , and sellers of cattle to the sacrificers . 
my dear father , Jesus of Nazareth must be indeed invested with powers divine ! 
He who , with a word and a look , for the whip in his hand could not , says Rabbi Amos , have hurt a child , can thus impel thousands of men before him , could make THE WHOLE world fly from the terrible majesty of his presence ! 
My uncle , Rabbi Amos , who , on his return from the Temple , corroborated what Samuel had stated , added , that as Jesus stood alone , possessor of the gold-strewn floors of the Courts of the Temple , the High Priest advanced towards him , and with awe , not unmixed with anger , demanded of him by what authority he did these things , seeing that he took upon himself to purify the Temple . 
`` Hast thou not had proof of my power from heaven , '' answered Jesus , stretching forth his hand towards the still terror-stricken multitude . 
Thereupon , there was a multitude of voices , some crying one thing , and some another ; but the most part asserting their belief that Jesus was a just man and divine prophet . 
Caiaphas at length obtained silence , and said to him : `` Tell us plainly -- Art thou the Christ , the Son of the Blessed , that we may believe in Thee ? '' 
Rabbi Amos , who saw and heard all this , says that nothing could have been more striking than the contrast presented between the two men , the High Priest and Jesus , -LRB- if it be lawful to call him a man , dear father , -RRB- as they talked with each other ; the one clothed in magnificent garments , with a glittering tiara upon his brows , his port lofty and proud , his hair and beard white as snow , and his whole appearance majestic and splendid with outward richness ! 
That Jesus is the Christ , is now beyond question ; for he has openly acknowledged it to the High Priest . 
You say in your letter , dear father , that you have read with interest all my letters , and more especially those which relate to Jesus of Galilee , the mighty Prophet now vouchsafed to Israel . 
To this objection , dear father , also made , I believe , in a previous letter , Rabbi Amos desires me to say , that he has investigated the records of births kept in the Temple , and finds , as I have before named to you , that Jesus was born in Bethlehem . 
He afterwards removed with his parents to Egypt , and thence returning to Judea , settled in Galilee , where he was brought up . 
Of these facts in his history , not only Rabbi Amos is satisfied , but Nicodemus also , whose learning you will not gainsay , and the latter , very much to our surprise , and my own delight , added yesterday , when we were talking over the subject at supper , `` there is a prophecy , O , Rabbi Amos , which strengthens this mighty Prophet 's claim to be the Messiah . '' 
`` It is a new argument for Jesus , then , '' answered Rabbi Amos . 
My heart bounded with joy , dear father , at hearing this prophecy named ; but judge my emotion when Nicodemus , taking the roll of the Prophet Isaiah in his hand , read the words that follow , and applied them to Jesus , `` Beyond Jordan , in Galilee of the Gentiles , the people which sat in darkness have seen a great light ! '' 
This changes the objections to his coming from Egypt and from Galilee , into additional proofs of his claims to be the Messias . 
I hear you now ask , dear father , with many of the rich and influential citizens of Jerusalem , `` Have the rulers begun to believe in him ? '' 
O , my dear father , that you could see Jesus , and hear him discourse , as I have done ! 
All your doubts would then be dissipated , and you would be willing to sit at his feet , and learn of him the words of life . 
How shall I describe him -- how shall I cause you to hear and see him , as I have heard and seen ? 
The multitude now drew near ; but many of those in advance , seeing the Roman horse , stopped or fell back , so that I beheld Jesus appear in front , walking at an even , calm pace , John at his side , and also Rabbi Amos was with him . 
Passing the horsemen , John and Rabbi Amos conducted Jesus to our door ; but before they reached it there was a loud cry from several harsh voices to the Roman to arrest him . 
The multitude now began to retire , as the Roman horse slowly moved up the street , and Jesus being received into the house by Mary , who descended to open the door , quiet was soon in a measure restored ; though at one time a large concourse of persons , whose money-tables had been cast down , came to complain of their losses , and would have attacked the house but for Rabbi Amos , who went forth and civilly addressed them ; showing them that if they had sold and bought in the Temple , contrary to law , and that if Jesus had driven them forth alone , he must be a prophet , for only a prophet could make a thousand men flee before him ; `` and if he be a prophet , my friends , he has acted by command of God ; and take heed , lest in avenging yourselves against him , you be found fighting against God . '' 
In the meanwhile , Jesus was taken into the inner hall , and water being brought , Rabbi Amos himself removed his sandals , and washed his feet ; while Mary , to do him all honor , dried them with a rich veil , which she had just worked in anticipation of her coming bridal with her cousin John . 
But I had no eye or ear for any one but Jesus . 
I saw that he seemed weary and pale , and for the first time I noticed a wound oozing blood upon his temple , from which he seemed to suffer , as from time to time he raised his hand to it . 
Desirous of serving so holy a person , I hastened to prepare liniment , with which , bringing it into the hall , I was about to bind up his wound , which John said had been caused by a stone thrown by some wicked hand . 
Jesus turned his eyes upon him and said , `` Elias , thou readest the Prophets , and should know whether he who speaketh unto thee be the Christ or no ! 
In going to his apartment , the Prophet had to cross the court , and as I was watching his retiring footsteps , I saw four men who had climbed to the house-top from the street , the doors being shut , let down a fifth in a blanket at the very feet of Jesus . 
Jesus seeing their filial love , stopped and said , kindly : `` Young men , what would ye have me to do ? '' 
he asked , fixing his gaze earnestly on them . 
Jesus looked benignantly upon them , and then taking the venerable man by the hand , he said to him in a loud voice , so that all who were looking on heard him : `` Aged father , I say unto thee , arise and walk ! '' 
Jesus then withdrew himself from the grateful group , who , embracing their father , wept upon his neck , and then the whole four escorted him , two on each side , with their arms about him , and about each other , into the street , where they were received by the multitude with loud cries of gratulation ; for the old man had been well known in the city by all men , as palsied and unable to walk for thirty years . 
Such , my dear father , are the increasing testimonies Jesus bears , by miracles , as well as by words , to his being Messias . 
Dear Father : -- The visit of the prophet Jesus to the city has produced results of the most amazing character . 
His numerous miracles , performed in open day by a word , or a look , or a touch , or a command , the power of his preaching , the excellency of his doctrines , which are evidently divine , his clear assertions that he is the very Christ , have all contributed to bring the first men of Israel , rulers as well as people , to believe in him ! 
But the majority of the common people are in favor of Jesus , believing him to be the Christ . 
Even Nicodemus , who at first was inclined to accept Jesus as a Prophet , finding the Phari seesagainst him , and being unwilling to lose his popularity with them , kept away from the house where Jesus was by day ; but his curiosity to learn more of him , led him to visit the holy Prophet secretly by night . 
This he did twice , coming alone in the darkness , and being let in by his friend Rabbi Amos . 
She overheard their conversation , her window opening upon the corridor , where Jesus had been seated after supper , in the moonlight alone , for full an hour , gazing meditatively heavenward . 
His pale and chiseled features in the white moonlight seemed radiant as marble , and as cold , when Rabbi Amos came and announced the ruler Nicodemus , as desirous to speak with him . 
`` If I tell thee , Nicodemus , thou wilt not believe , '' answered Jesus , mildly . 
`` I will tell thee , Nicodemus , '' answered Jesus . 
Jesus then rose , and bidding his host good night , retired to the apartment which was assigned him , and Mary remained wondering at his sayings . 
Thus , dear father , it is made certain from his own words , that Jesus is the Christ ; that he is to establish a kingdom ; that he will stand on `` a throne high and lifted up , '' as saith the Prophet , and all the earth shall acknowledge him . 
But why his throne should be on Calvary instead of Mount Zion , Rabbi Amos wonders greatly , in conversing with us to-day ; for Calvary is a place of skulls , and of public executions , and is covered with Roman crosses , where every week some malefactor is crucified for his crimes ! 
And yet it is more mysterious still , his saying that we must be born again.But John remarked that there are many things which he says to him and his disciples , which Jesus plainly tells them they can not yet understand , but will by and by remember ; and that he tells them now that then , when they see these things fulfilled , they may remember that he told them of them and believe in him ; and have confidence that other sayings and prophecies of his , yet further in the future , will come to pass . 
Jesus , in all that he says , in all that he does , proves that he is omniscient and omnipotent ! 
Whatever he wills to do , he doeth . 
Never man had power such as dwells in him . 
This morning , as he was going forth from the house to depart into the country , a man lame from his birth , seated upon the threshold , caught him by his robe , saying , `` Master , heal me ! '' 
`` Son , thy sins be forgiven thee , '' answered Jesus , and then passed on ; but the Scribes and Pharisees who stood about , when they heard this , cried , `` This man , be he prophet or no , blasphemeth ; for God alone can forgive sins ! '' 
Jesus stopped , and turning to them , said : `` Which is easier , to say to this man , who has not walked for twelve years , and whose legs and arms are withered , as you see , ` Thy sins be forgiven thee , or to say , ` Rise and walk ? ' 
Thus did Jesus publicly show men that he could forgive sins , if he could heal , as the power to do both came equally from God . 
Knowledge of this fact reached Rabbi Amos , who at once sent a message to æmilius , our Roman friend , informing him that he apprehended that there would be an attempt made to assassinate Jesus at the going out of the gate , and asking his aid . 
When Jesus passed through the armed guard beneath the arch , the young Roman courteously offered him an escort to the next village . 
Jesus , graciously looking on him , said : `` Young man , I need not thy help . 
The Levites and their hired murderers now pressed forward , and broke through the cohort to reach Jesus , uttering wild and fearful cries ; but æmilius charging them , routed them , and put several to the sword . 
He then rode to the side of the Prophet , offering him the best horse in his company . 
This accommodation Jesus refused , but walked by the Roman soldier , who insisted on escorting him , affably conversing with him , and teaching him wonderful things touching the kingdom of God . 
Jesus stopped , though his disciple Peter would have bidden the lepers to hold their peace , as it was late , and his Master was weary ; but Jesus , who never wearies doing good , called the lepers to approach . 
They came timidly within twenty paces of Jesus , and stood still , tremblingly ! 
`` Fear not , '' said he , `` I will make you whole ! '' 
He then advanced towards them , and laying his hand upon each of them , they all , at the touch , were instantly changed to well men , with the buoyant form , clear eye , and rich bloom of health ! 
When æmilius saw this miracle , he dismounted from his horse , and falling at Jesus ' feet , cried , worshiping him : `` Thou art Mercury or Jupiter , O mighty God ! 
`` Rise , young man , '' answered Jesus , sadly looking upon him ; `` thou shalt have wisdom and grace , but not from thy gods ; there is but one God , even the Father ; worship him , and he will reward thee ! '' 
æmilius said to me that his heart thrilled at these words , with others he had spoken in the way , and he promised me that he would henceforth `` cast aside his gods and believe in the God of Israel , and in Jesus , his holy Prophet . '' 
he proclaims , '' as saith the prophet , `` liberty to the Gentiles . '' 
Now , my dear father , I have thus far faithfully written all that I have heard and witnessed respecting Jesus , as you desire . 
You must see that he is more than a Prophet , and is the very Christ , the son of the Blessed . 
They say the daily sacrifice will cease , the Temple fall to ruins , and the faith of Israel depart , if Jesus be suffered to live and preach , and do these mighty signs and wonders among the people . 
But all this establishes his claims ! 
Did not David prophesy of Messias , that when he should come , `` The kings of the earth would set themselves , and the rulers take council together against the Lord and against his anointed ? 
Thus , dear father , all things more and more go to prove Jesus of Nazareth to be the Christ of God . 
We are ambassadors of Jesus of Nazareth , and go from city to city , proclaiming the day of the Lord at hand , for Messias is come ! '' 
At hearing these words , Mary and I both exclaimed with joy that we had both seen and heard Jesus at Jerusalem , and believed on him . 
Upon going to the house-top , we beheld these two men standing upon an elevation , and preaching the kingdom of Christ at hand , and calling upon all who heard them to repent of their evil deeds and lead a godly life ; for Jesus would one day judge them according to the deeds done in the body . 
Upon this , some cried out against Jesus , and others threw stones at the two men ; and when we reached the house-top , we saw one of them remove his sandals and shake the dust from them , saying in a loud voice : `` As ye reject the words of life , your sins remain upon you , as I return to you again the dust of your city . '' 
This hostility , we found , was caused by an order from the Great Sanhedrim , to all the synagogues and priests in the land , that they should denounce all who preach Jesus of Nazareth as the Christ . 
`` Oh , '' sighs Mary near me , as I write , `` oh , that Jesus , the mighty Prophet , had been here ; he could have healed him ! '' 
Even Jesus can not return the dead to life ! 
Oh , if he could have been here yesterday , his power over diseases would have enabled him to save his precious life ! 
It reads as follows : if I have time to transcribe it before the call to follow the dead forth to burial is given : -- `` The bearer , beloved , is one of the disciples of Jesus . 
His name is Bartimeus . 
He was blind and poor , and subsisted by begging ; and , as you see , his sight is restored , and he insists now on going from town to town where he has been known as a blind man , to proclaim what Jesus has done for him . 
He takes this to you . 
There are many things which I have seen and heard touching my holy Master , Jesus , and his holy mission to the world , which I will declare unto you when we meet , that you also may have fellowship with us in those things which we know and believe concerning him . 
`` Jesus ? '' 
Yes ; he met the bier just outside the -- But here they come ! '' 
`` He lives -- he indeed lives ! '' 
Hundreds came in and viewed his feet and hands , and every tongue was eloquent in praise of the power of Jesus . 
`` Make known to me , Mary , the particulars of this wonderful miracle , '' I asked of her ; for though I saw Samuel now seated , and eating in the room , served by his glad mother and the happy Ruth , while all looked on , to see if he really ate , and though I believed in the power of Jesus to do all things , yet I could hardly realize that he whom I had seen carried out a dead man on his bier , I beheld now seated at table partaking of food , alive and well . 
Hearing some one say , ` It is the Prophet of Nazareth , with his disciples , ' I looked earnestly forward , and joyfully recognized Jesus at their head , with John walking by his side . 
``` Oh that Jesus had been in Nain , when thy son was sick ! ' 
I said to the widow , pointing him out to her , as the Prophet and his company stopped at the entrance to the bridge , and drew to one side , for the way was too narrow for both parties to cross at the same time . 
`` But Jesus laid his hand upon the pall over the body , and said to those who bare the bier : ``` Rest the bier upon the ground . ' 
`` They instantly stood still and obeyed him . 
He then advanced amid a hushed silence , and uncovering the marble visage , touched the hand of the dead young man , and said in a loud and commanding voice : ``` Young man , I say unto thee , Arise ! ' 
color flushed the livid cheek ; the eyelids opened , and he fixed his eyes on Jesus ; he raised his hand , his lips moved ; he sat up on the bier , and then spake aloud in his natural voice , saying : ``` Lo ! 
`` Jesus then took him by the hand , and assisting him to CHRIST RAISING THE WIDOW 'S SON.CHRIST RAISING THE WIDOW 'S SON . 
The Messias is come , and Jesus is very Christ , with the keys of death and hell . ' 
I sought out Jesus to cast myself at his feet , but he shrunk from the homage and gratitude which his mercy to us had awakened . 
The opposers of Jesus , the hostile Scribes and Pharisees , do not deny the miracle , for they were convinced of the reality of the death of the young man ; for he died , as I have before said , of the plague , and his corpse was a loathsome sight to those who beheld it ; yet , wonderful to relate , when he was restored to life by the power of Jesus , he sat up free from all external signs of the putrid disease , his skin fair and smooth , and his whole aspect that of ruddy health and manly beauty . 
Jesus came into the town during the evening , and abode with us . 
They anticipated his every wish , and seemed to desire that he had a thousand wants , that they might administer to them . 
But his life is simple -- his wants few . 
He thinks little of comforts ; and so that he can speak of the kingdom of God to those about him , he forgets to partake of the food before him . 
Mary is to-morrow to become the bride of John , and Jesus will be present at the wedding , for while he severely rebukes sin and folly , he sanctifies by his presence the holy rite of marriage , which God ordained . 
But when Rabbi Amos explained that they all were made after patterns of heavenly things , I ceased to marvel , and only wished I might one day dwell in those celestial abodes , where , the holy Jesus teaches us , are mansions not made with hands , of endless duration , reserved for all the good and virtuous . 
I was not permitted to approach the sacred chamber , where stood the four thousand vessels of gold of Ophir , used in the sacrifices on great days ; and this being a high day , I saw no less than six hundred priests standing about the altar , each with a golden censer in his hand . 
there is Jesus ! '' 
`` That , O stranger , is Jesus of Nazareth , the Jewish Prophet , '' uncle Amos , delighted to point him out to a foreigner . 
`` I have even heard of his fame in Macedonia , and am rejoiced to behold him . 
Think you he will do some great miracle ? '' 
`` He performs miracles not to gratify curiosity , but to bear testimony to the truths he teaches , that they are delivered to him of God . 
Every voice was hushed , as that of Jesus rose clear and sweet , and thrilling , like a celestial clarion speaking . 
And he preached , dear father , a sermon so full of wisdom , of love to man , of love to God , of knowledge of our hearts , of divine and convincing power , that thousands wept ; thousands were chained to the spot with awe and delight , and all were moved as if an angel had addressed them . 
The robber drew near , and taking a favorable position to execute the deed , raised his hand to strike the Prophet from behind , when Jesus , turning his head , arrested the hand of the assassin in mid-air , by a look ! 
When Jesus had exhibited him to all the vast concourse in this manner for a few minutes , he said to him : `` Return to those who hired thee . 
The assassin bowed his head with deep humility ; the knife dropped from his hand and rang upon the marble floor ; and he sank at Jesus ' feet , imploring forgiveness . 
The people would have torn Gazeel in pieces , but Jesus said : `` Let him depart in peace . 
Ye , priests , go about to kill me , '' he added , fixing his clear gaze upon the group which had sent Gazeel . 
Upon hearing these words , there arose a great cry from ten thousand voices : `` Hail to Jesus , the king of Israel and Judah ! 
We will have no king but Jesus . '' 
One of the priests , desirous of having Jesus slain , quickly answered , `` That the people had proclaimed Jesus , the Nazarene , king , '' and that he was already placing himself at the head of the people . 
The tumult was now fearful , and the bloodshed would have been great , but Jesus suddenly appeared before him -- none saw how he had reached the place -- and said : `` There is no insurrection , O Roman ! 
I am Jesus . 
When Jesus had thus said , he withdrew himself from Pilate 's presence ; and those who would have sought him to make him a king could nowhere discover him . 
The result of this attempt of the people to make the Prophet their king , and under his direction to overthrow the Roman power , has been , that the Roman authorities , instigated by Annas and the priests , begin to look upon Jesus with eyes of jealousy ; and Pilate this morning told a deputation of priests , who waited on him to petition him to arrest and imprison the Prophet , that on the first proof they could bring him of his hostility to Cæsar , he would send soldiers to take him . 
To-day Jesus was refreshing himself in our house , when several Scribes and Pharisees came in . 
I saw by their dark looks they meditated evil ; and secretly sent Elec with a message to Æmilius , -LRB- now Eleazer , -RRB- asking him to be at hand to protect Jesus ; for Æmilius is devoted to him as we are , and Jesus takes delight in teaching him the things of the kingdom of God . 
Jesus , knowing the hearts of these bad men , said to them , after they had seated themselves , and remained some minutes in silence : `` Wherefore are ye come ? '' 
Jesus look fixedly upon them , as if he read their wicked designs , and said : `` Show me the tribute money . '' 
Zadoc handed him a penny , the Roman coin sent into Judea by Cæsar , as our currency , and which we return to Rome again in tribute . 
When Jesus had taken the money , he looked on the head of Augustus stamped upon one side , and then turning to them , as they waited breathlessly for his answer , said sternly : `` Whose image and whose name is here impressed ? '' 
`` Then render unto Cæsar the things that be Cæsar 's , and unto God the things that be God 's , '' was his calm and wonderful answer . 
I breathed again ; for I feared he would answer openly that tribute ought not to be paid , which they hoped he would do , when they would immediately have accused him to Pilate as teaching that we ought not to pay tribute to Rome , and so a fomenter of rebellion . 
When Æmilius arrived , and found Jesus alone with our family , unharmed , he spoke freely his satisfaction . 
`` Æmilius , '' said Jesus to him , `` thou art now become a Jew . 
he asked , earnestly . 
Æmilius would have questioned him further , but Jesus left him , and went forth into the garden , where he remained late at night in meditation and prayer . 
Believing , my dearest father , that all I have written you touching Jesus has not been in vain , and that you are , with me and thousands in Israel , ready to believe him that he is the Christ , the Deliverer of Jacob , My Dear Father : -- I have received with joy your letter , in which you say you shall leave Egypt with the next passover caravan , in order to visit Jerusalem . 
My happiness is augmented to know that you will be here while Jesus is in the city ; for it is said , and John , Mary 's cousin , asserts it , that he will certainly be at the Passover . 
Last week , Eli , the paralytic , whom you knew , a scribe of the Levites , whose hand has been withered nine years , so that he had been dependent on the alms of the worshipers in the Temple for his bread , hearing of the power of Jesus , sought him at the house of uncle Amos , where he was abiding ; for it was our blessed privilege to have him our guest , for John , his beloved disciple , being betrothed to the fair daughter of uncle Amos , my gentle cousin Mary , always led the Prophet to our house . 
Jesus was reclining with our family at the evening meal , at the close of the day on which the uproar had taken place in the Temple , as described in my last letter but one , when Eli came and stood within the door . 
Humble and doubting , his knees trembled , and he timidly and wistfully looked towards Jesus , but did not speak . 
Jesus did not see the poor man , his face being turned towards Rabbi Amos , to whom he was explaining the meaning of the sacrifice of Abel . 
At this Eli ran forward , and casting himself at Jesus ' feet , kissed them and said : `` Rabbi , I am a poor , sinful man ; I believe that thou art the Christ , the Son of the Blessed ! '' 
asked Jesus , looking steadily upon him . 
`` Manasses , '' said Jesus , mildly , `` tell me whether is it an easier thing to do : to say to this man kneeling here , ` Thy sins be forgiven thee , ' or to say , ` Stretch forth thine hand whole as the other ? '' 
`` God alone , who first made him , '' answered Manasses , gazing upon the withered arm , which , shriveled to the bone , hung useless at his side . 
Therefore , '' said Jesus to the paralytic , `` I say unto thee , Eli , stretch forth thy hand whole ! '' 
The man , looking upon Jesus ' face , and seeming to derive confidence from its expression of power , made a convulsive movement with his arm , which , his mantle falling off , was bared to the shoulder , exhibiting all its hideous deformity , and stretched it forth at full length . 
`` Thou art now healed , Eli , '' said Jesus , impressively ; `` go , and sin no more ! '' 
Men and brethren , '' he continued , addressing those who were assembled , `` well did this holy Prophet of God say unto me , at the first , ` my sins were forgiven , ' instead of bidding me stretch forth my hand ; for it was a sin that brought on my paralysis , as a punishment for it . 
Verily , oh , Jesus of Nazareth , thou art the Son of the Highest ! 
And the proud priest fell at Jesus ' feet , and bowed his snow-white locks upon them in adoration and reverence . 
If , then , dear father , the secret sins of men are known to Jesus ; if he forgives sins as well as heals ; if he removes the temporal penalties which God inflicts upon men for their iniquities , what name , what power , what excellence shall we give to him ? 
How shall I be able to remember and repeat all the other mighty works which Jesus has done in proof of his divine power ! 
You must have heard how he fed , from a small basket of bread , -LRB- the frugal provision which a lad had brought into the desert for his mother and his brothers , -RRB- no less than five thousand men , not naming the women and children . 
My mind is overwhelmed , my dear father -- I am filled with astonishment and awe , when I reflect upon the might , power , and majesty of Jesus , and I fear to ask myself , -- who more than man is he ? 
Is he verily the awful and terrible Jehovah of Sinai , visible in the human form ? 
His beloved disciple , John , says that Jesus has promised the day is not far off when this veil will be removed , and we shall then know him , who he is , and wherefore he has come into the world , and the infinite results to men of his mission . 
The Passover is nigh at hand , when we shall again behold the majesty of his presence . 
I also related how that his many virtues had won for him the friendship of the equally youthful Prophet Jesus , who loved to make his abode his often abiding place ; and lofty must the virtues and excellencies of a man be , dear father , to command the holy friendship of this man of God . 
He has closed his eyes again , and seems heavy ; but his slumbers are restless , as you see ; and he seems to think his dear friend , Jesus the Prophet , is by him ; or he talks of Ruth as if she were not present . '' 
`` Jesus ! '' 
`` Yes , Jesus has the power to heal him , and Jesus loves him ! 
He will come and save him the moment he hears of his danger . '' 
This message was forthwith despatched by the hands of a young friend to Bethabara , beyond Jordan , where we learn Jesus at present abides . 
Their humble dwelling was the home of hospitality and kindness , and thither the Prophet of God , Jesus , loveth to resort whensoever his great labors will permit him . 
Nearly of the same age , a holy friendship had sprung up between him and Lazarus , who so loved the Blessed Anointed One of God , that he would readily have laid down his life for him . 
I have told you , dear father , what a happy household I have seen it when Jesus completed the number ; for he stayed so much with them when not preaching , or when wishing to rest a day or two from his weary toil , that they came to regard him as one of their family . 
Mary would devise ways to do him honor , and show her respect and affection , by working for him silken covers for the Books of the Prophets , which Lazarus would copy and present to his beloved friend ; while Martha seemed ever to be thinking what and how she should administer to his comfort , by providing every delicacy for her table . 
But so that Jesus could find listeners to his words of truth and wisdom , like Mary -- who loved to sit at his feet and hear the golden language fall from his sacred lips -- he thought not of meats or drinks . 
One day when I , with Mary and Lazarus , was listening to his heavenly teachings , wrapt in wonder and absorbing interest , Martha , who was preparing the meal , came and desired Mary to come and assist her ; but the dear , pious girl , heeded not nor heard her , she was feeding , so forgetful of all else , upon the celestial food that fell from the lips of Jesus , who was talking to us of the kingdom of God and the glories of heaven , and the necessity of holiness to dwell there . 
At length Martha , finding that Mary heard not , appealed to Jesus , saying something sharply : `` Lord , dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve alone ? 
We turned with surprise to hear her , who was usually so gentle and good , thus forget what was due to the presence of the Prophet ; and Lazarus , blushing , was about to speak and excuse his sister , who looked as if she were much worried with her domestic troubles ; but Jesus said kindly to her : `` Martha , Martha , thou art careful and troubled about many things ; thy household takes up too much of thy time and thoughts . 
`` Say not thus , oh , say not so , dear Lord , '' cried Martha , suddenly bursting into tears at Jesus ' touching words , and casting herself impulsively at his feet ; `` this house is thy home -- ever beneath its roof , while I have one above me , shalt thou have where to lay thy head ! 
Jesus raised her up , and said to her , gently : `` It is thy love for me , I well know , that maketh thee so careful and troubled to provide for me at thy bountiful table . 
I have been particular in giving you , dear father , these details of the domestic relations existing in the abode of Lazarus , and the sweet friendship that resided in their bosoms towards Jesus , and his familiar , brotherly love for them . 
You can now understand why , when Lazarus was taken ill , after his laborious vigils to copy the manuscript for the Roman Centurion , a message was at once sent to Jesus , who was in Bethabara beyond Jordan , for a physician of Jerusalem , whom the noble Caiaphas had sent out to Bethany , on hearing of the sudden sickness of the youthful Secretary , to whom he was greatly attached , for all people did love him who knew him -- this physician had at once pronounced him in danger of sudden death from inward bleeding of the lungs . 
`` Why , then , '' you may ask , dear father , `` should they send for Jesus , when death was certain . 
Jesus , '' you add , `` was no physician , or if he had been , he could not reverse the fate of the dying young man ! '' 
The fact , dear father , that under these circumstances they did send to Jesus to come and heal him , shows that it was not as a human physician they desired his presence , but as the miracle-working Prophet of God ! 
Now , that the sisters of Lazarus sent a message presently to Jesus to interpose between death and his life , shows that they plainly believed he had not only the power of miracles , but had power over death ; and that they had witnessed instances of his power sufficient to give them faith in his ability to save their brother ; while they knew that his love for him would certainly prompt him to exert it . 
After he had gone out of sight from the door , and the last echo of his horse 's hoofs ceased to be heard by the long-listening ears of his sister Martha , I re-entered the room where Lazarus lay . 
I could not gaze upon that abundant hair without recalling the day not long before , when at the dwelling of Rabbi Joseph Solomon , she drew near suddenly to Jesus , who was his guest , and bathed his feet with her fast flowing tears , mingling therewith her kisses , and then dried them with her shining hair ! 
And wherefore did she weep upon the feet of Jesus ? 
It was Jesus who reconciled her to her brother and sister , and hence her deep gratitude to him , which she has shown , not once , but many times , when he has been their guest , by bathing his feet with her tears , and wiping them with the hairs of her head . 
Her place is ever at his feet . 
Lovely and guilty one , her tears are her daily offering to heaven , and will atone for deeper guilt than hers , if tears do wash away sins ; but she says nothing has given consolation to her heart like the voice of Jesus , when he said to her , `` Daughter , thy sins be forgiven thee ! '' 
All too late was Jesus sent for ! 
He is dead ! 
To-morrow his burial will take place . 
You have already been informed by me how rapidly Lazarus failed after his sudden attack of hemorrhage of the chest , and that he soon died ; and that , in hopes that he might avert death , Jesus was sent for at the first to come to him . 
But Bethabara was a day 's journey , and ere the messenger reached him the soul of his friend had fled . 
The next day he was buried ; a very large concourse of people from the town of Bethany , and from Jerusalem , coming to his burial ; for he was greatly beloved ; even the chariot of the noble lady , Lucia Metella , the good and virtuous wife of Pilate , was present to do honor to the obsequies of him who had no other renown than his virtues . 
Others answered , as Lazarus himself , were he alive , would have had them : `` It is Lazarus , the friend of Jesus ! '' 
Suffice for me to tell you , at the close of this letter , that it was Jesus who raised him from the dead , the Prophet of God of whom you are yet in doubt whether he be the Messias or no ! 
Think of these things , dear father , ponder them well , and let not the poverty of Jesus be a stumbling-block to your faith in Him as Messias . 
That he has raised Lazarus from the dead , is alone proof to me that He is the Son of God . 
When Mary and Martha , finding Lazarus given over by the physicians as past possible recovery from his grievous illness , had dispatched the message to Jesus , as I have already stated , they began to be more cheerful with new-born hope , saying : `` If our dear Rabbi , the holy Prophet , comes , he will heal him with a word , as he has done so many of the sick . '' 
`` Nothing is impossible with Jesus , '' answered Mary , her eyes brightening with trusting faith . 
Thus the hours passed between mingled hopes and fears ; and ere Jesus came , the mantle of death was laid over the face of their dead brother . 
`` Lazarus is dead , and Jesus is away ! '' 
The next day the burial took place , as I have described already to you , dear father , in my last letter , and yet no messenger came from Jesus . 
The morning of the third day the messenger returned , and said that he had found the Prophet on the farther bank of Jordan , where John had baptized , and that he abode in an humble cottage in the suburbs of Bethabara , with his disciples , and was engaged in teaching the things of the kingdom of God , and unfolding the prophecies to many who resorted unto him . 
At this , Martha 's faith seemed for a moment shaken , but Mary eloquently defended her brother 's absent friend , and holy Prophet , saying , `` That when Jesus should come and speak in person for himself , he would make his words plain , and show them to have been spoken with wisdom . '' 
and their tears fell the faster in that they felt assured he would not have died had Jesus been there . 
Their faith and confidence in him underwent a sore trial as day after day passed , and nothing more was heard from him . 
`` He has forgotten us , '' answered Martha . 
`` He should be near to console us in our deep affliction , though he came not to heal our brother . '' 
`` But not his death , Mary , not his death!He is dead four days already ; and how can the grave give glory to the power of Jesus ? 
Will he raise him up since corruption has begun , nay , began ere we laid him in the cold sepulchre ? 
`` Ah , dear Martha , how soon is thy faith in Jesus , when proven , become nought ! '' 
`` Shall one day overturn your years of holy friendship for him ? 
Because he answered not our prayer to come to Lazarus , think you he loved him not , and is indifferent to our anguish ? 
`` He can heal a proud and rich ruler 's son , but he heeds not the cry of the poor and lowly , '' perseveringly answered Martha , expressing in her looks the intensity of her feelings against Jesus . 
Almost at the same moment , Elec , the Gibeonite , entered and said : `` Jesus , the Messias of God , is at hand ! 
He already entereth the village with his disciples . '' 
At this intelligence the mourners who sat with Mary and Martha in the vine porch , rose up to go and meet him ; but Martha , shrieking with sudden joy , sprang up , and more quickly than they reached the street , and running with great speed , came where Jesus was . 
`` I knew he would come ! 
I knew he would not leave or forsake us in our deep sorrow , Adina , '' she said , two or three times ; and as the confused noise of advancing foot-steps fell upon our ears , her heart beat quicker , and with the glow that joy and expectation made to enrich her face , I thought she looked more beautiful than ever before . 
When Martha came near Jesus , whom she met just entering Bethany , walking with four of his disciples along the dusty road , and looking weary and travel-worn , she ran and threw herself at his feet , crying : `` Lord , if thou hadst been here , my brother had not died ! '' 
Jesus taking her hand , raised her up , and said with emotion , for he was deeply moved : `` Lazarus sleepeth , Martha . 
Jesus then said unto her , lifting his celestial glances towards heaven : `` I am the resurrection and the life . 
To this speech Jesus made no reply , but turning to Martha , said softly : `` I am rejoiced that thy faith in me hath come back into thine heart , for thou hast doubted , oh daughter of little faith , in that I came not at thy call . 
Martha , then , overjoyed , and wondering that Jesus should have known her thoughts , so as to reproach her for her little faith as he had done , hastened to her sister , and entering , cried : `` I have seen the Lord ! 
Lazarus to come again into the house alive , walking with Jesus ! 
Certain of her Jewish friends from Jerusalem at that moment met her at the door , not knowing that Jesus had entered Bethany ; and began to comfort her , and to ask her if they also should go with her to weep at the grave of Lazarus ; for they said : `` She goeth unto the grave to weep there ! '' 
`` She goes to see Jesus , the friend of Lazarus , for he calleth her , '' answered Martha , smiling with eagerness , and speaking with an animation that presented a singular contrast to her late deep grief . 
Mary hastened to where Jesus sat by the fountain bathing his dusty and wounded feet , and discoursing to those about him upon the resurrection of the dead . 
Upon seeing Mary , he extended his hand , but she sank at his feet , and bathing them with her tears , wiped them with her gleaming black hair . 
Jesus sighed deeply , and groaned in spirit as he beheld her grief , and their mourning with her . 
His sacred countenance was marred with the anguish of his soul . 
he said to them . 
`` Come , dear Lord , and see , '' answered Mary , taking him by the sleeve of the robe , and drawing him towards the place of the tombs in the vale of Olivet . 
For Jesus ? '' 
At this moment we heard the noise of the multitude passing by , and it being told us that Jesus was going to the grave , Martha , embracing me with a heavenly smile , drew me gently after her , to follow the blessed Prophet to the tomb . 
How shall I describe Jesus , as he then appeared ! 
He wore upon one shoulder , from which it was almost dragged by the eager hand of Martha , a blue garment , woven without seam throughout , the affectionate work and gift of the two sisters . 
His face was pale and sad , yet a certain divine majesty seemed resting thereon , so that his calm , high forehead looked like a throne . 
His large , earnest eyes , richly brown in hue , and darkly shaded by sable lashes , were full of sorrow . 
His chiseled mouth was compressed , but the swelling of the nether lip betrayed the effort he made to suppress the outbursting of his heart 's deep grief . 
Slowly he moved onward , and entering the cemetery , he soon stood before the tomb of his beloved friend . 
For a few moments he stood gazing upon the door of the cave in silence . 
Mary knelt at his feet gazing up into his countenance with a sublime expression of hope and trust . 
Jesus looked tenderly upon them , and then resting his eyes upon the tomb , he wept . 
Large , glittering tears rolled down his cheeks , and glanced from his flowing auburn-colored beard to the ground . 
Jesus , uttering a deep sigh , now came nearer the grave . 
With a slight movement of his right hand to those who stood by , he said in a tone that , though low , was heard by the whole people , so solemn was the surrounding stillness . 
`` Daughter , '' said Jesus , looking on her , `` said I not to thee a little while since , if thou wilt believe that I can raise up thy brother , thou shalt see him alive again . 
The dark vault yawned with gloomy horror , and so corrupt was the air that rushed out , all fell back from it , save Jesus and Mary , several steps . 
Jesus stood looking into the cave , where , as our eyes became accustomed to the darkness within , we could discern the corpse of Lazarus , covered with the grave mantle , and his face bound with the napkin which was already discolored with the sepulchral damp of the grave . 
Raising his hands towards heaven , and lifting up his holy eyes , which were yet moist with tears , Jesus said in a voice of indescribable pathos and earnestness of appeal , and with a manner of the most awful reverence : `` Father , I thank thee that thou hast heard me . 
He then turned towards the tomb , and stretching forth his hand , he cried with a loud voice , that made every heart quake : `` Lazarus , come forth ! '' 
Scarcely daring to look , I looked and beheld what all eyes also saw , the corpse stand up within the vault , and turning round with its face towards us , came forth bound hand and foot with grave clothes , and his face bound about with a napkin . 
His countenance was like marble for whiteness , and his eyes , which were open , looked supernaturally brilliant . 
At beholding him , a simultaneous shriek burst from the bosoms of the people , and a backward rush of all who were nighest the cave . 
said Jesus , calmly , to the petrified and amazed men who had taken away the stone . 
Mary was the first one who had the firmness to approach him , and remove the napkin from the sides of his face , while others , taking courage by her example , hastened to unswathe his arms and feet . 
In a few moments he was free from his outer grave clothes , and the color of his cheeks came to him , his lips flushed brilliantly with red , his eyes looked natural , and beamed with wonder and love as he gazed about him . 
Seeing Jesus , he was about to cast himself at his feet in gratitude , -LRB- for he seemed to know all that had happened , -RRB- but the mighty Prophet drew him to his embrace and kissed him . 
Lazarus , the new-born from the dead , blooming in the rich hues of complete health , walked homeward by the side of Jesus , while the sisters hung upon him with deep thankfulness overflowing their happy hearts . 
Now the great Prophet , now Lazarus , and now Jesus again , received the plaudits of the vast throng of people . 
Hymns were chanted to Jehovah as we passed through the streets , and so many fell down to worship Jesus , that it was long before we crossed the threshold of the dwelling , which Jesus did indeed enter with Lazarus by his side . 
And Martha did see him sit at the same table , and that night saw his head rest in deep slumber upon the flower-strewn pillow which her faith and love had prepared for him . 
Thus , my dear father , have I given you a recital of the particulars of this mighty miracle , the report of which has filled all Jerusalem with amazement , and must lead the priests and the people to acknowledge Jesus to be the Messias of God , him of whom Moses and the Prophets did write . 
Like all my letters , dearest father , the theme of this will be Jesus , whom I unspeakably rejoice to hear you are beginning to regard with more favorable eyes , saying in your last letter , these words , which made my heart bound with joy : `` Were I to resist the testimony of the miracles which this wonderful Nazarine Prophet had evidently done , especially that of raising Lazarus , the scribe , from the dead , I fear I should be fighting against God ; for who can restore life and soul to the dead but Jehovah alone ! 
He spoke with Lazarus , and confesses to me that Jesus is evidently a mighty Prophet , sent from God ! 
That the hand of the Lord is upon him , and that mighty works show forth themselves in him , doubtless can not be disputed ; but that he is the Shiloh of Jacob , the kingly Lion of the tribe of Judah , I can not , for a moment , entertain the idea ; for if I accept him as Messias , neither have I , nor my countrymen at large in Israel , nor the scribes , nor the fathers in Jerusalem , read the Prophets aright , but rather with eyes blindfolded ; for to Jesus they do not , can not aim , else we have altogether misunderstood what is written in Moses and in the Prophets , and in the Psalms , concerning the Christ . '' 
You confess , dearest father , that you are at length convinced that Jesus is a Prophet , and that God is with him , for he could not do such great miracles , except the power of God was upon him . 
Now , if God co-operates with Jesus ; if God , so to speak , lends him his power , endows him with his own attributes , so that , like God , he heals , stills tempests , restores lost limbs , raises the dead from their graves alive again , it is because God has chosen him from among men , in order to clothe him with his mighty and divine attributes . 
To be the chosen recipient , by the Lord God Jehovah , of such mighty powers , Jesus must be good , must be holy , pious , and full of those holy virtues in which the Almighty delights ; in a word , God must approve of his character , and be content with whatsoever is done by him . 
Now Jesus , thus favored by God , whose power to work miracles you yourself , my dear father , have confessed must be conferred by Jehovah alone , distinctly and everywhere asserts that he is Messias , the Son of God , the Shiloh of Israel , of whom Moses and the Prophets so eloquently wrote . 
Jesus was about to answer , when a man , who stood near the reading desk , in whom was an unclean spirit , cried out , with a shrieking voice of mingled terror and awe : `` Let me alone ! 
Leave me as I am , thou Jesus of Nazareth ! 
Upon this Jesus turned to the multitude , and said : `` The very devils bear witness to me , who I am ! 
Then Jesus rebuked the devil which possessed the man , -LRB- who was Jaius , a Roman proselyte of the gate , who had long spread terror in the suburbs , by his exceeding madness and ferocity , -RRB- and said to the devil , in a voice of a master commanding a bond slave , `` Hold thy peace , Satan ! 
Jesus took him by the hand , and he stood up , and looking in the face of the Prophet with earnestness and wonder , he burst into tears of gratitude , exclaiming : `` I am escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowler ; the snare is broken , and I am escaped . 
He then sat at the feet of Jesus calm , grateful , happy , and in his right mind , while all gazed on him with wonder ; while from the great mass of the people rose a great shout , -LRB- for they were all amazed , -RRB- saying : `` This is none other than the Christ , the son of David ! 
At this , when the noise had a little subsided , some of the Scribes and Pharisees said , reproving him for not rebuking these cries , -- `` Who is this that suffereth himself to be hailed as king ! 
Æmilius -- who well understands these envious Jews , and who is wise in the knowledge of what Jesus teaches , and who loves him as a brother , and reveres him as a father -- Æmilius remained quiet , giving no signs that he would do the will of these wicked enemies of the Prophet . 
Jesus then said , in a loud , clear voice , -- `` My kingdom is not of this world ! 
Ye say truly , I am king , '' he added , with indescribable majesty of manner ; `` and hereafter ye shall behold me sitting upon the throne of heaven , high and lifted up , with the earth my foot-stool , and before me every knee shall bow , of things in heaven , of things on earth , and things under the earth ! '' 
When he had thus far spoken , he could not proceed farther , on account of the sudden and immense uproar which his words produced . 
Some shouted `` hosannas ; '' others said he blasphemed ; one cried for the Roman guard , another for the priests , to eject him from the tribune ; many rushed towards him , to cast themselves at his feet , while many , putting their fingers in their ears , hurried forth from the synagogue , crying , -- `` His blasphemies will cause the house to fall upon us , and crush us ! '' 
In the midst of it Jesus conveyed himself away , none knew where ; and when I returned to the house of Martha , I heard his low , earnest , touching voice in prayer to God , in his little chamber . 
Such , then , my dear father , is the testimony , as you have seen , in what I have above related , which Jesus publicly bears to himself , that he is the very Christ who should come into the world . 
There can be no further doubt of the fact now that he has so plainly stated it , pointing to the prophecies , which he is daily fulfilling by mighty works , in proof of the truth of his assertion . 
Is it not that He is the Christ?This result can not be avoided . 
Either Jesus is Messias , as he asserts , and his miracles prove , or he is not . 
Now if he is not , then he is an impostor and a liar , as well as a fearful blasphemer of Jehovah ! 
Moreover , the miracles of Jesus , you admit , prove him to have come from God , while you deny his claim to be Messias . 
Now , if Jesus truly came from God , as , looking at his miraculous power , you readily admit , he can not be a sinner : he , therefore , can not assert of himself what is not true . 
Yet he asserts that he is the Christ . 
We therefore , are forced to the irresistible conclusion , that either the miraculous power , with which Jesus is invested , did come from God , and that he is , as he says , the true and very Christ of the prophets and patriarchs , or that God has endowed a blasphemer of his name , a liar and impostor , with his own powers , and indorses the imposture by continuing these powers to him in every miracle that he performs . 
Jesus is , therefore , the Christ . 
Jesus is the Christ , or we make both God and the Prophet liars and co-partners in an enormous imposture ! 
Jesus is Christ , and let God be true , though all men be found liars . 
Pardon me , dearest father , if I have been too warm and urgent in my efforts to bring you to accept Jesus as the Christ . 
Some do think that he will enter Jerusalem , ere long , attended by tens of thousands of his followers , and that before him Pilate will peaceably vacate his Procuratoral chair , and retire , not only from the Holy City , but from Judea , with his legions ; and that Jesus will ascend the throne of David ; the glory of the age of Solomon be revived under his rule ; and with the kingdom of Judah for the centre of his power , he will extend the sceptre of his dominion from sea to sea , and from the rivers of Egypt and of the East , to the ends of the earth , till all nations shall fall down before him , emperors and kings sit at his feet , and every tongue and language and speech in the whole world acknowledge him to be the King of Israel , King of kings and Lord of lords ; while under the splendor of his reign Jerusalem and Judah will be more powerful than all the cities and kingdoms that have ever been on the earth , and to the dominion and glory of our people there will be no end . 
Such , dear father , is the future of Jesus , as looked for by all his disciples , save one , and this is John , the betrothed of my cousin Mary . 
He is more closely intimate with Jesus than any other man ; and is so beloved by him that he makes known to him many things which he withholds from the rest . 
The glory of Jesus you will behold , but first , we must pass through the valley of darkness , the gate of the tomb . 
His kingdom is not on the earth , but in the heavens . 
Here , I fear , he will pass through suffering and sorrow , and , perhaps , a painful death , for he has told me that he came to suffer and die , and that he can only win , bleeding from every vein , the kingdom , over which he is hereafter to reign in endless dominion . 
He has distinctly said to me , ` I must first suffer many things at the hands of men , before I enter upon my reign of glory . 
Jesus , the Prophet of God , is a prisoner to the Roman power ! 
He is accused of making himself a king , and of a conspiracy to re-establish the throne of David ! 
These base , degraded , and wicked scribes and priests , whom I am ashamed to call my countrymen , have accused the divinelygifted Jesus , before Pilate , of rebellion and treason ! 
At that supper Jesus had said very plainly , that one of our number would betray him into the hands of the priests ; who , since his triumphant entry into the Holy City , preceded and followed by the multitude , shouting hosannas , and proclaiming him Messias , had diligently sought his life . 
I was resting at the moment , with my cheek on the shoulder of Jesus , and said , softly : `` Lord , who is it that betrayeth thee ? 
Jesus shook his head , and smiling gently , said : `` My beloved brother , thou knowest not what thou wouldest do . 
I looked , and saw Judas reach forward , and dip into the dish at the same instant in which Jesus dipped ; but in his eagerness , or from conscious guilt , his hand trembled , he spilled the salt on the board , and the sop fell from his grasp into the bowl ; upon which Jesus gave him the piece he held , saying to him , with a remarkable expression in his clear , piercing eyes : `` Judas , what thou doest do quickly ! '' 
And the warmhearted disciple drew his sword , and placed himself by the side of Jesus , as if to defend him . 
said Jesus , gazing on him with a sad , sweet look : `` Verily , verily , Peter , thou little knowest thyself . 
`` Yes , Peter , '' answered Jesus , firmly , but kindly ; `` deny that you ever knew me ! 
for the time draweth near when there will be safety only in confessing ignorance of Jesus the Nazarene . 
And all of you , '' he added , while his voice grew tremulous , and tears glistened in his eyes , `` all of you shall be offended because of me , this night ; ye shall be ashamed to confess that you are my disciples , and ye will think me a deceiver , and will be displeased at me . 
Jesus then began plainly to tell us that he was to die , and that by his death we should be admitted into a heavenly Paradise , and live forever . 
We could not understand all he said , but we knew that he was soon to be taken from us ; and sorrow filled all our hearts . 
After discoursing with us in the most touching words , he at length said : `` Come , let us go over Cedron , to the garden we so much loved to walk in . '' 
We went out with him , inclosing him as a guard , to conceal his person from the Jewish spies , as well as to defend him . 
The moon shining brightly , and by its light glancing on the face of Jesus , by whom I walked , I saw that it was sadder than its wont , while he spoke but little . 
Familiar with all the paths , we advanced to a central group of the venerable Olivet trees , beneath which Abraham used to sit , and there Jesus , turning to us , said , in a voice of the deepest woe : `` Friends , the hour of my time of trial is come ! 
`` Yes , thou art always with me , beloved , '' he answered ; `` I will not leave thee now . '' 
So leaving the eight friends to keep watch against the intrusion of his enemies , who were known to be everywhere seeking him , he walked away to the most secluded recesses of the garden . 
He stopped at the place , near the rock , where Adam is said to have hidden from Jehovah ; and , saying to us , in a sorrowful tone : `` Tarry ye here , while I go apart , and pray to my Father , '' he went from us about a stone 's cast , and kneeled down , where a thick olive branch , hanging low to the ground , concealed him from our view . 
As he prayed thus , in great agony , I suddenly beheld a swift light pass by me , as if from the skies , and an angel stood by the side of Jesus , bending over him , and raising him up from the ground . 
I beckoned to Peter to be motionless , and he gazed with me in speechless astonishment and admiration upon the form of the angel , from whose glorious face was emitted the radiance which illumined the place where Jesus was . 
As the angel raised Jesus from the ground , we saw that his countenance was convulsed with anguish ; and upon his brow stood great shining drops of sweat , mingled with blood , which oozed from his pallid temples , and rolling down his marble cheeks , dropped to the ground . 
The face of Jesus grew more serene ; he raised his eyes with a divine expression of holy submission , and said , in a strong voice : `` Thy will , not mine , O God , be done ! '' 
After the departure of the angel , Jesus seemed calmer , and as we did not wish longer to intrude upon his sacred privacy , we softly returned to where James lay asleep . 
We remained for some time conversing together upon the wonderful vision we had seen , which confirmed us in the certainty that Jesus came from God , and was in truth the Messias , that should come ; but at length , wearied with our day 's excitements , we must have fallen asleep , for we were suddenly startled by the voice of our dear Master , saying : `` Why sleep ye , children ? 
cried Jesus , in a tone that roused them to their feet ; `` they are at hand who seek me ! '' 
While he was speaking , we saw many lights gleaming through the trees , along King David 's walk , and the tramp of feet fell on our ears . 
We at once took the alarm , and said to Jesus : `` Fly , dear Master ! 
Jesus shook his head , and said , with a sad smile , `` Ye know not now what ye say , or would do . 
While he yet spake , the multitude drew nearer , and those who had the lead , raising their torches high above their heads , discovered us , with Jesus in the midst . 
Upon discovering Jesus , this wicked man ran forward , with expressions of attachment in his face , and kissed Jesus on the cheek , saying : `` Hail , Master ! 
`` Judas , '' said Jesus , `` betrayest thou the Son of Man with a kiss ! '' 
When Judas heard this , he turned to the multitude , at the head of which I recognized some of the chief priests , and most learned scribes of the Temple , and cried aloud : `` This is he ! 
Thereupon the crowd , to the number of tenscore men , among whom were the vilest sort of people , rushed forward to lay hands upon Jesus : the moon and torches shedding almost the bright light of day upon the whole group . 
At seeing them advance so furiously , with spears , and clubs , and swords , Peter and James placed themselves before Jesus , to defend him , while I , being uncovered , cast myself across his breast , to shield his heart with my body . 
The more bold men in the crowd coming too near , Peter smote one of them with his sword , as he was reaching out his arm to grasp Jesus by the shoulder , and clave off his ear . 
At seeing this the crowd uttered a fierce shout , and were pressing upon us , when Jesus raised the palm of his hand , and said , quietly : `` Whom seek ye ? '' 
Instantly the whole mass rolled backward , like a receding billow rebounding from the face of an immovable rock , and every man fell with his forehead to the ground , where they lay for a minute stunned ; and we twelve stood alone , save Judas , who had not been struck down , and now remained gazing with amazement and terror upon the prostrate enemies of Jesus . 
While he was thus speaking , the men rose to their feet , and instead of flying , they seemed to be infuriated at their discomfiture ; and as the chief priests cried out that it was by sorcery they had been striken down , they rushed madly forward , and laid their hands upon Jesus , and upon us all . 
In vain I contended against numbers to rescue Jesus ! 
in vain the sword of the valiant Peter flashed in the torchlight , and fell upon the heads of the captors ; overpowered by numbers , we were defeated , and driven from the field of contest , leaving Jesus in the hands of his enemies ! 
We wondered that Jesus , who could , as he had shown , destroy his enemies with a wave of his hand , should suffer them to make him their prisoner ; for in their hands he knew he must die ! 
At one moment we are tempted to lose our confidence in him , and believe , as many now begin to say , that we have been following a deceiver , and in the next to trust fully in him , and that he will yet overcome his enemies , and be restored to us . 
At this fearful and sublime sound , all raised their heads , but saw nothing ; and Jesus said , with a majestic and commanding look , such as I never before beheld upon his face : `` Ye hear , '' he said to us , `` that I am not without heavenly friends ! 
Thus , dear father , was Jesus borne away by a fierce multitude , and dragged into the city , followed by a shouting and insulting crowd , who , seeing that , notwithstanding his miraculous powers , they could secure and hold him , mocked him only the more , making light of powers which could not prevent the capture of his person . 
Some even reviled him on the way , and asked him to call down the twelve legions of angels ; while others said they were hungry and thirsty , and would have him turn water into wine for them , and give them bread by another miracle of loaves . 
John , whose interest in , and affection for Jesus , led him to follow them , disguised in a Roman soldier 's cloak , heard all this ; but Jesus made no answer , only walking quietly along , patiently enduring all they said and did . 
When Annas knew that the prisoner was Jesus , he uttered a fearful oath of joy and wicked satisfaction , and coming down into the court , bade them bring the prisoner in . 
The calm majesty of Jesus abashed him , and checked the course of insulting questions he began to put to him . 
John followed , but being recognized as one of his disciples , by a soldier in Æmilius 's legion , he was seized , and only escaped by leaving his cloak in the hands of the rude Roman ; for such was the prevalent hatred to Jesus , that they called for his followers , and would have taken them also had it been in their power . 
To move in favor of Jesus is only to share his fate , and do him no service ; besides , I am pained to say , two or three of his disciples begin to doubt whether he is Messias , since , instead of establishing his promised kingdom , he is now a prisoner , and menaced with death . 
He , in whom I trusted -- He , whom thousands in Judah had begun to look upon as the hope of the nation -- He who , as his now wretched disciples trusted , would have redeemed Israel -- Jesus , has been delivered , this morning , by the Roman Procurator , to be condemned to death , and they have crucified him!Tears of grief unutterable fall upon the parchment as I write , and , more eloquently than any words , tell you how I am smitten by this heavy , heavy blow ! 
Jesus -- the noble , mild , courteous , and wise Prophet , who taught with such grace and wisdom , and whom we believed to be sent from God to be the Savior of our people , and the Prince who should sit on the throne of David , to restore the former splendor of our nation -- is dead!With him have perished all our hopes ! 
Even the disciples are outlawed , and a reward offered by Caiaphas for their arrest ; and all those who , two days ago , were so full of hope , and proud to sit at the feet of Jesus , and to follow him whithersoever he went , now fear to confess that they have ever known or seen him . 
But , my dear father , to whom I have ever confided all my feelings and thoughts , shall we pronounce Jesus an impostor ! 
Oh , can he whose very countenance was stamped with celestial dignity , whose lips dispensed truths such as the wisest philosophers and holiest prophets have loved to study and teach ; whose whole life has been blameless , and who has lived only to do good -- can he be , must he be pronounced a deceiver ? 
When I recall the sick he has cured , the indigent he has relieved , the mourners he has comforted , the ignorance he has enlightened , the dead he has up-raised , the sublime truths he has taught , his love of God , his respect for the worship of the Temple , the perfect morality of his daily life , the sincerity of all he said , and the universal sympathy which seemed to fill his bosom for all who were in sorrow -- I can not , oh , I can not bring my pen to write the word `` impostor , '' inassociation with his name . 
I feel desolate and miserable , like those who , confiding all their heart 's treasures to another 's keeping , whom they believed good and true , find that he was unworthy of confidence and betrays their trust . 
Jesus asserted that he came on earth to establish a kingdom , and sit on the throne of David ; and that all nations would receive their laws from Jerusalem . 
Mary , my cousin 's sweet voice , I catch , from time to time , trying to soothe him , although she is stricken , like us all , to the very earth ; for she trusted in Jesus , if possible , with more faith than I did ; and hence her dismay at his death , at the sudden termination of all her hopes in him , and of his restoration of Israel is in proportion . 
`` Yes , for Jesus was living to do it ! '' 
No , he will never move , speak , nor breathe again . '' 
I candidly acknowledge that I have been too hasty to confess Jesus as Messias of God ; but , oh , what could I do but believe in one who seemed so like an angel from heaven -- a celestial Prince ! 
Even now I hear her heavy sighs , from the couch where she lies , broken-hearted , in my aunt 's chamber , to which John led her , after the execution of Jesus , at his request . 
`` Oh , '' I heard her say to Rabbi Amos , when she came into the house , `` oh , that he could have deceived me thus -- he whom I believed to be the soul of truth . 
It was Jesus . 
His rich auburn locks were dishevelled , his beard torn , his face marred , and his garments rent . 
He was pale and suffering , but walked with a firm step . 
He looked up , and said , touchingly , ` Weep not for me , daughters of Jerusalem , but weep for yourselves . ' 
`` He would have said more , but the priest smote him rudely upon the mouth ; and the crowd , following his example , would have done him further insult , but for the Roman soldiers , who turned their spears every way , to guard him from violence ; for they had rescued him from the terrible rage of the Jews , by their centurion 's orders , and were commanded to bring him safely before Pilate . 
All I knew was what my eyes just beheld , that Jesus , our Prophet , our King , our Messias , on whom all our hopes and the joy of Israel rested , was dragged , a prisoner , through the streets , helpless and without a helper . 
At this moment , my father , Rabbi Amos , opened the outer gate , with a torch in his hand , to follow , at our request , the crowd of people , and see what should befall Jesus . 
Who has ordered the arrest of Jesus ? 
What has he done ? ' 
About half an hour after Jesus passed he reached our house , nearly destitute of apparel , his clothing having been torn off from him by the Jews , in their efforts to make him prisoner also . 
He is calm and confiding , saying that his beloved Master can never be injured by them ; and that he will , ere many hours , deliver himself from his foes , and proclaim himself king of Israel , with power such as man never had before ! 
Confident that Jesus is the son of God , we will not fear what man can do unto him . 
Come at once to our comfort ; for this is no time for the friends of Jesus to be out of Jerusalem . 
He says nothing can save Jesus but his own divine power . 
The Jews are in number many thousands , and cry for his blood . 
The fate of Jesus is sealed ! 
The Procurator has signed the sentence of death , and he is to be crucified to-day ! 
But now , that all is over -- now , that Jesus lies dead in the tomb and forever at rest , I have been able to resume my pen . 
In my next I will give you an account of his trial , as it was related to me by my uncle Amos , and by John , one of whom was present to the last . 
If anything can add to my mortification at the death of the Nazarene , Jesus , it is that I should have endeavored so earnestly to make you believe in him also . 
In the grave with Jesus is buried , henceforth and forever , all trust in human virtue -- even when accompanied by amazing miracles . 
Mary of Nazareth , the mother of Jesus , accompanied him , and they got safely out of the city , and are now at Bethany with Martha , -- whence they will go to John 's new home , near Gennesaret . 
Even Lazarus , whom Jesus raised , has been made prisoner , but was released by the influence of Æmilius , the Roman knight , who has conducted him hither , where he now is in safety ; and Æmilius has also placed a guard about our house , for fear of further Jewish violence . 
Æmilius is the only one who has any confidence left , since Jesus died , in his promises . 
He says that Jesus plainly foretold his death , and also that if he died , he would rise again ! 
Peter , also , recollects Jesus ' saying this ; but Uncle Amos has no confidence , and says : `` It is easy for any man to foretell that he will die , and quite as easy for him to add that he will rise again ! 
But let us see Jesus rise again , and we will believe in him indeed ! '' 
I should rejoice to have the faith of dear Æmilius ; but I tell him that I have hitherto believed too well , and that when Jesus expired , all faith in my bosom expired with him . 
As soon as the mob of Jews , who had Jesus under arrest , and which I saw pass the house , reached the house of Rabbi Annas , he , from his window , asked them whom they had in custody ; and when they answered that it was the `` Nazarene Prophet , '' he said , with great joy : `` Bring him into the lower court , that I may see him . 
It was with difficulty he made a passage to where Jesus stood , both imprisoned and defended by a glittering lattice of Roman spears . 
But Jesus stood calm and dignified , making no answer . 
Annas then angrily plucked him by the beard , and a messenger at the same moment arrived , to say that Caiaphas , the High Priest , who had married the beautiful and haughty Ruth , the daughter of Annas , demanded to have Jesus brought before him . 
Upon this he said , in a loud voice : `` Lead him to the Palace ! 
There now arose a dreadful shout from the priests and people , who rushing upon Jesus , attempted to grasp his person ; and in protecting him , as they had been commanded to do , the Romans wounded several of the Jews . 
They were forced back , their spears broken like straws , or turned aside , and Jesus successfully wrested from their power . 
But in the height of the battle , Æmilius , who had heard the tumult from the castle , appeared with a portion of the legion , of which he was Prefect , and instantly charging the people , who fled before the breasts of his horses , rescued the Prophet , but not without the sacrifice of the lives of three of the foremost . 
I am come into the world for this hour , '' answered Jesus . 
He must be obeyed , '' answered Jesus ; and Æmilius , surprised at his refusal to escape , reluctantly escorted him to the palace . 
Caiaphas was already upon his throne , although it was the hour of midnight , an unwonted time for him to sit in the council-chamber ; but his desire to have Jesus brought before him , of whose arrest in Olivet he had been an hour before apprised by one of his emissaries , led him to hold an extraordinary court . 
A score of the elders and chief-priests were standing about him , their dark eager faces earnestly watching the entrance , to get a look at the approaching Prophet . 
As Jesus serenely entered , led by the sorrowful Æmilius , Caiaphas bent his tall , gaunt form forward , thrust his neck and huge black head in advance , and , with keen eyes , and sharp , scrutinizing glances , surveyed his youthful rival . 
The Roman soldiers , with clanging steel , marched in , and arrayed themselves on either side of the High-Priest 's throne , having Jesus standing alone before its foot-stool . 
So seemed this terrible sea of human heads -- Jesus , the centre of their looks and of their hate , the Pharos at whose feet these foaming billows of passion broke with terrific power . 
He alone , of all that countless host , he alone was calm -- serene -- fearless ! 
Caiaphas gazed upon him , as he stood before his foot-stool , betraying admiration mingled with resentment . 
Caiaphas now waved his hand , with a gesture for silence , and addressed Jesus : `` So , then , '' he said , with haughty irony , `` thou art Jesus , the far-famed Galilean Prophet ! 
``` Jesus , ' said Rabbi Amos , who just entered ; and stood near , and saw all , ` Jesus remained unmoved . 
His bearing was marked by a certain divine dignity , and an expression of holy resignation sat upon his features . 
He looked like Peace , incarnate in the form of man ! 
A soft influence seemed to flow from his presence , and produce a universal , but momentary , emotion of sympathy . 
Caiaphas perceived it , and cried , in his harsh , stern voice : ``` You have brought this man before me , men of Jerusalem ! 
Of what do ye accuse him ? ' 
``` He is a malefactor , or we would not have brought him , responded a fierce voice , from the multitude . 
He is a Jew , and shall have justice by our laws . ' 
`` This said Æmilius , in hopes that if Jesus could be brought before Pilate , the Roman Procurator , he might be by him released , for he knew Pilate had no envy or feeling against the Prophet . 
One of these men testified that he had heard Jesus say , that he would destroy the Temple , and could again in three days rebuild it more magnificently than it was in the days of Solomon the Mighty . 
`` A second witness was now produced by Abijah , who testified , that Jesus had taught in Samaria , that men would soon no longer worship in the Temple , but that the whole earth would be the temple , for Jews and Gentiles . 
`` This was no sooner heard , than some of the men gnashed at Jesus with their teeth , and , but for the gestures and loud voice of the High-Priest , they would have made an attempt to get him into their power . 
He testified that Jesus said , that the day would soon come when not one stone should be left upon another of the Temple ; that he had called it ` a den of thieves , ' and the priests ` blind guides ' and deceivers ; the scribes foxes ; and the pharisees ` hypocrites ! ' 
`` But the fourth and fifth witnesses contradicted each other ; neither did the testimony of two others agree ; one , who asserted that he heard him call himself ` the Son of God , ' was contradicted by others , who asserted that it was only ` the Son of Man ; ' and , in another instance , one said he heard him say , that he and God were One , while the other testified that what he said was , that God was greater than he . 
The High-Priest now began to perceive that Jesus would have to be released , for want of testimony against him . 
`` But Jesus remained silent . 
Rabbi Amos at once recognized , in the violent speaker , Peter , who had come in with him and John ; the latter of whom , in the disguise of a priest , stood not far from Jesus , gazing tenderly upon him , and listening , with the most painful interest , to all that they testified against him : but Peter stood farther off , by the fire , yet not less eagerly attending to all that passed . 
`` As he spoke , '' said John , `` he cast his angry looks towards the place where Jesus stood . 
He caught his Master 's eyes bent upon him , with a tender and reproving gaze , so full of sorrowing compassion , mingled with forgiveness , that I saw Peter stand , as if smitten with lightning . 
I then remembered the words of Jesus to Peter , spoken but twelve hours before : ` This night , even before the cock crow the first watch of the morning , thou shalt thrice deny that thou knowest me ! ' 
`` At length , when order was restored , so that Caiaphas could be heard , he again addressed Jesus , saying , but with more respect than before : ``` Art thou the Christ , the Son of the Blessed ? 
`` Jesus then elevated his princely form , and bending his eyes upon the face of the High-Priest , with a look so brightly-celestial that Caiaphas involuntarily dropped his eyelids to the ground , answered , and said : ``` If I tell you , O Caiaphas , ye will not believe ! 
said Jesus , firmly . 
`` Jesus calmly answered , with the blood trickling from his lips : ` If I have spoken evil , bear witness of the evil , and judge me by our law ; but if well , why smitest thou me ? ' 
``` Ye have heard the blasphemy , ' said Caiaphas , extending his hands towards the people . 
cried Abner , in a hoarse voice , his eyes , red with being up all the night , glaring like a leopard 's ; and advancing to where Jesus stood , bound and bleeding , he spat in his face thrice . 
`` This was followed by a loud outcry for his death ; and several vile fellows also spat upon him , and pulled him by the beard , and for some minutes it seemed to be the only thought of all , who were any ways near him , to do him some ignominy ; and , but for the protection of Æmilius and his soldiers , they would have torn him in pieces . 
he cried , indignantly , to Caiaphas . 
`` At this determined attitude they gave back for a moment , and left Jesus standing in the midst , sad but serene . 
In the wild confusion , Jesus was carried , by fierce hands , to the opposite end of the council-chamber ; while Caiaphas strove to appease the wrath of Æmilius , who insisted that the fate of Jesus should be left with Pilate , the Procurator . 
`` When Æmilius , aided by the authority of Caiaphas , at length came where Jesus had been dragged , they found him standing blindfolded among a crowd of the basest fellows of Jerusalem , who were amusing themselves by slapping his cheeks , and asking him to tell , by his divine knowledge of all things , who did it ? 
They would also hold money before his blinded eyes , and ask him to name its value or inscription ; and when he still kept silence , they struck him , beat him with their hands , and cruelly smote him with their staves to make him respond . 
``` Nay , let him divine ! ' 
and he let a blow of his staff fall upon the head of Jesus , which would have felled him to the earth , but for the voice of Caiaphas , which arrested , in part , its force . 
he cried aloud , ` that this pestilent Nazarene is a blasphemer , we have heard with our ears ; and , by our law , he ought to die , because he hath made himself the Son of God ! 
`` This speech pleased the people , and having re-bound Jesus , more securely , they cried , all with one voice : ` To Pilate ! 
And this reminds me , my dear father , to mention what , in the multiplicity of subjects that rush to my pen for expression , I have omitted to state to you ; and what is unaccountable , unless men have , in very truth , crucified , in Jesus , the very Son of God . 
Can the death of Jesus be the cause of all these things ? 
If so , he was the Son of God , and men have done unto him whatsoever they listed . 
My last letter , my dear father , closed with the termination of the examination of Jesus before Caiaphas , the High-Priest , who not being able to convict him of anything save alleged blasphemy , and not having the power in his hands to condemn him to death on this charge , resolved , in order unfailingly to secure his execution , to charge him before Pilate , the procurator , of sedition and treason against Cæsar . 
But for the fact , that the Romans had taken the power of death from the Jewish nation , Jesus would have been then stoned to death for blasphemy , by order of Caiaphas ; but a more ignominious death , as a revolutionist and usurper of Cæsar 's crown , was in reserve for him , at the hands of the Roman law . 
Guarded by Æmilius , who was his true friend to the last , and followed by the envious Caiaphas , the fierce Abner , the captains of the Temple , Scribes , Pharisees , Sadducees , Herodians , and a mixed rabble of the Jews , artisans , peasants , robbers , beggars , and all the off-scourings of the nation that pour into the city at the Passover season , he was led to the house of Pilate . 
But when Æmilius explained to the captain of the guard , that the Jews desired to accuse Jesus , the Nazarene , of sedition before the Procurator , he was admitted , with the chief men of the city , into the outer court of Antiochus ; but none passed beyond the statue of Cæsar , lest they should defile themselves ; and , at their call , Pilate came forth to them . 
When he saw the vast concourse of people with Caiaphas and the chief priests , and many rich Sadducees , and the leading men of Jerusalem in the advance , and Jesus bound , and disfigured by the insults he had undergone , and Æmilius and his few soldiers enclosing him with their protecting spears , and heard the loud voices of the multitude , as of wolves baying for the blood of a defenceless lamb , he stood with amazement for a few moments , surveying the scene . 
he demanded , of the young Prefect . 
`` It is Jesus , called the Christ , my lord ; the Prophet of Galilee . 
The Jews desire his death , accusing him of blaspheming their God ; and -- '' `` But I have no concern with their religion , or the worship of their God . 
He then spoke to Æmilius , and desired him to lead Jesus to the spot where he stood . 
Jesus , in the meanwhile , stood motionless before his judge , his eyes downcast , and full of a holy sadness , and his lips compressed with immovable patience . 
Pilate now turned to him , and said : `` Thou art , then , that Jesus of whom men talk so widely . 
Before Jesus could reply , which he seemed about to do , for his lips parted as if to speak , there was heard a sudden commotion in the lower part of the court of Gabbatha , -LRB- for thus the outer court of the Pretorium , where they were , is called by the Jews , -RRB- and a loud , hoarse voice was heard crying : `` Make way -- give back ! 
All eyes turned in the direction of the archway , when a man was seen forcing his path towards the door of the Judgment-Hall , in front of which Pilate was standing , with Jesus a step or two below him . 
cried Iscariot , for it was he , leaping into the space in front of the portico . 
he exclaimed , on seeing the High-Priest . 
See thou to that , '' answered Abner , the priest , haughtily ; for Caiaphas was too much surprised at this open exposure of his bribery of Judas to speak , his eyes falling under the withering glance of the Roman Procurator . 
But Caiaphas shook him off ; Abner and the chief-priests also spurned him from them , as he approached them , when , at last , in a frenzied manner , he threw himself at the knees of Jesus , and cried , in the most thrilling accents : `` Oh ! 
This extraordinary interruption produced a startling effect upon all present ; and it was a few moments before Pilate could resume his examination of Jesus , which he did by entering the Judgment-Hall , and taking his seat on his throne . 
Pilate at length obtained comparative silence , and then said to Jesus : `` Hearest thou these accusations ? 
Pilate spoke as if he had taken a deep interest in Jesus , and would give him an opportunity of defending himself . 
This Jesus has done nothing worthy of death , were he called before a tribunal in the capital of the world itself , Cæsar his judge . '' 
`` Noble Governor , '' answered Caiaphas , stopping in his angry strides up and down the porphyry floor of the outer portico , `` thou forgettest that I brought him not before thee on this charge of blasphemy alone ; but for sedition . 
I must save both Jesus and myself ! '' 
While he was yet speaking and musing with himself , unconsciously , aloud , so that those who stood about him , among whom was El Nathan , the brother of the maid Mirza , who dwells in our household , and from whom I received this portion of the narrative , there was heard a great noise of voices , in the direction of the Maccabean Palace ; and as it grew nearer and more distinct , Pilate started up , and cried : `` It is as I feared -- Herod gives them no satisfaction , and they come again to me ! 
At this moment the multitude , increased , if it were possible , in numbers and in vindictiveness , reappeared , pressing Jesus before them . 
This time he was alone , Æmilius having been separated from him in the palace , and kept by the crowd from rejoining him . 
He was now unbound , and upon his head was a crown of thorns , piercing the tender temples , till the blood trickled all down his face ; upon his shoulders was clasped an old purple royal robe , once worn by Herod , in his state of petty king ; and his hand held a reed , as a sceptre ; and as he walked along , the bitterest among the priests , as well as the vilest of the common fellows , bent the knee before him , crying : `` Hail ! 
King Jesus ! 
My Dear Father : -- In this letter , which I write in the solitude of my chamber , while all in the house have sought repose , will be continued my account of the trial , if such it can be called , of Jesus . 
I have already shown you how he was first taken to Annas , and thence dragged before Caiaphas , who , unable to execute upon him the sentence of death , sent him to the Procurator Pilate , charged with conspiracy ; and he , shrinking from condemning a man whom he knew to be innocent of any crime , and yet fearing to release him , lest he should be impeached by the Jews to Cæsar , sought to shift the responsibility upon Herod , in whose tetrarchy lay Nazareth , where Jesus ordinarily dwelt . 
John , the faithful , and yet trusting disciple whom Jesus loved , still kept near his captive Master , and sought to cheer him by affectionate looks , and , where he could do it p612-408 with safety , by kind acts . 
More than once he was rudely thrust aside by the fiercer Jews , and once several men seized upon him , and would have done him violence , as a follower of the Prophet , if Caiaphas , to whom John is remotely related , and who knows him well , had not interposed . 
Indeed , it was through this protecting influence of the High-Priest , that the disciple was allowed to remain near Jesus . 
Mary , Martha , and Lazarus , were also with us , having come into the city as soon as my cousin Mary 's letter reached them ; and , besides , there were with us four or five of the disciples , who had come in , one by one , secretly , for fear of being seized by the Jews , and were anxiously waiting here the result , and firmly believing that Jesus would yet free himself by his divine and miraculous power . 
Herod , the Tetrarch of Galilee , who occupied the old palace of the Maccabees , which Alexander , the Macedonian , had built for Seleucus , was breaking his fast with fruit and wine , at a table overlooking , by a window , the street of the Gentiles , when the noise of the advancing thousands of the Jews , who were bringing Jesus before him , reached his ear . 
He started from the table , and said : `` These people are surely up in insurrection against Pilate ! '' 
`` No , great Prince , '' answered the lad Abel , his cupbearer , who is a cousin to John , and has told me many of these things ; `` they have taken the Nazarene Prophet , Jesus , and are trying him for sedition . '' 
`` Let thy prisoner fear not , '' answered Herod , regarding Jesus attentively , as he stood before him , in the calm majesty of innocence . 
Herod , then fixing his eyes curiously upon Jesus , who had stood silently before him , seemingly the only unmoved person in the vast concourse , heaving and murmuring around him , said to the soldiers : `` Unbind him ! 
`` Art thou the Nazarene , Jesus , of whom I have heard so much ? '' 
`` I am he , '' was the quiet answer of the captive . 
The man alertly came forward , and all eyes were directed eagerly upon him , and upon Jesus ; but he thrust the stump of his arm , by Herod 's order , in vain before Jesus . 
Jesus remained motionless , yet with a firm and majestic countenance , that made him look more kingly than Herod . 
Scarcely had Herod spoken these words , relinquishing Jesus into the hands of his foes , than , with a savage cry , as the famished jackals in the desert rush upon their prey , they rushed upon their victim . 
No words could have better pleased the people , save such as would have sentenced Jesus to death . 
With a glad response , they began to put into execution the hint he had so wickedly given them . 
One of his men of war brought a cast-off robe of purple , which belonged to Herod , and , with loud shouts of laughter , and coarse jests , they robed him in it , unresisting as the lamb wreathed for the sacrifice . 
Some one then untwined the creeping thorn , which grew on the outer wall , and twisting it into the shape of a crown , handed it over the heads of the men to Abner , whose hatred against Jesus proceeded from the well-known fact , that among the changers of money , whom he drove from the Temple , was a younger brother , who was making , by his business , great gains for the avaricious priest ; who , therefore , never forgave this act of the Prophet . 
Nothing could have done better ; '' and with his two hands he placed it upon the head of Jesus , pressing , cruelly , the sharp thorns into his temples , till the blood trickled from a dozen wounds . 
Jesus made no complaint , but the pain forced large bright tears from his eyes , which rolled down his cheeks , and fell along the purple robe like glittering pearls . 
exclaimed the man with one arm , using this one to reach a piece of reed , from which a Passover-lamb had been slung , to those who were arraying Jesus . 
This was thrust into his grasp , and he held it patiently . 
His submission , his silence , his endurance of pain , his constant dignity , the majestic indifference which he seemed to manifest to all their insults and tortures , brought tears into the eyes of Æmilius ; and John , unable to benefit his dear Master , kneeling at his feet , bathed them with his flowing tears , nor stirred , though men trampled upon him , and smote him ; but he desired to suffer with his Master , and , as he said to me , would gladly have borne in his stead all his indignities . 
and he pointed to Jesus . 
cried Herod , mocking him , and seemingly greatly amused at the jest . 
Upon this all who were around him kneeled , and some , mockingly , prostrated themselves before the Prophet ; but he stood so very like a monarch , that others , who were about to mock him , refrained ; and Herod even turned away , with a troubled look , saying , abruptly : `` Take him back to the Procurator ! '' 
Once more the vast multitude were in motion , and , with cries and insults , escorted Jesus from the presence of Herod , back to the Pretorium , as I have already stated in my previous letter . 
When , once more , Jesus stood before him , arrayed , as I have described , in the gorgeous robe and crown , Pilate , turning towards Caiaphas and the priests , said , angrily : `` What more will ye have ? 
`` My kingdom is not of the earth , '' answered Jesus . 
asked the Roman ; but , without waiting for Jesus to reply , and seeing that the Jews outside of the Hall were becoming more and more impatient , he hurriedly went out to them , and said : `` I find in the prisoner no fault at all . 
But , at the loud demand of the people , Pilate was forced to send to the officer of the wards , to let him go free ; and it was but a short time before he was escorted from his cell to the front of the Pretorium in great pomp , and became presently one of the most active in hostility to Jesus . 
Pilate , therefore , finding that the Jews would be content with nothing less than the blood of Jesus , returned , sorrowfully , into the Judgment-Hall , where he had left him seated upon the lower step of his throne ; for he could no longer stand for weariness , and for the heavy treatment he had undergone . 
My Dearest Father : -- I now resume the narrative of the condemnation , or rather sentence , of Jesus , after he had been brought a second time before Pilate . 
Jesus , as I stated in my last , had , from weakness , sunk upon the steps of the throne of the Hall of Judgment . 
When Pilate , after giving the order to release the robber-chief , Barabbas , came again where Jesus was , he stopped , and regarded him attentively , and with an expression of sorrow and admiration . 
The youthful beauty , the dignity , even in his humiliation , the patience , and air of innocence , that enveloped him , deeply impressed him . 
At length he spoke : `` If thou be indeed a god , O heroic young man , as thy patience would seem to prove thee to be , thou needest not to fear these blood-hounds , that bay so fiercely for thy blood . 
When Jesus , instead of replying , remained silent , the Procurator said , sternly : `` What , speakest thou not unto me ? 
Jesus looked up , and calmly said : `` Thou couldst have no power against me except it were given thee from above . 
And as Jesus said these words in an impressive tone , he glanced fixedly at Caiaphas , who was looking in at the door , as if designating the High-Priest . 
He took Jesus by the hand , and leading him to the portal , and pointing to him , said aloud : `` Behold your king ! 
Impressed , as he has since said , with the innocence of Jesus , and remembering the warning message sent him by his young and beautiful wife , who held great influence over him , he trembled with indecision . 
Pilate then turned away from them , and said to Jesus , who stood unmoved , with the same heroic and celestial serenity which he had manifested throughout the storm raging about him : `` Thou art , I feel , an innocent man ; but thou seest that I can not save thee ! 
Jesus made him no answer ; and Pilate , turning from him , with a sad countenance , walked slowly away , and left the Judgment-Hall . 
His disappearance was the signal for a general rush towards Jesus , chiefly of the rabble , who , indifferent about Gentile defilement , crossed the threshold into the hall , which Caiaphas and the chief priests had refrained from doing . 
These base fellows seized Jesus , and , aided by the men-at-arms , dragged him forth into the outer or common hall . 
Here they stripped him , and , by order of the chief captain , scourged him with forty stripes , save one . 
All this Jesus still bore with godlike majesty . 
Not a murmur escaped his lips ; not a glance of resentment kindled the holy depths of his eyes , which , from time to time , were uplifted to Heaven , as if he sought for help and strength from thence . 
`` Good Rabbi , '' said Jesus to him , `` let them do with me what they list ! 
Rabbi Amos accompanied the multitude , keeping as nigh to Jesus as the Roman soldiers , who marched on each side of him , would let him . 
With cries of horror , several of the Jews drove them away , and the Roman Centurion , whom Pilate had ordered to crucify Jesus for the Jews , directed four of his soldiers to convey the hideous corpse from sight , and see that it was either burned or buried . 
`` If , '' said Rabbi Amos to John , who now rejoined him `` if the accusers of Jesus are to be punished like this man , this will be a fearful day for the men of Jerusalem . 
This looks like Divine retribution , and , as if Jesus were , in truth , the favored Prophet of the Highest . '' 
By this time , the people , who were dragging Jesus to death , were got out of the gate , where a cross of heavy cyprus was obtained by the Centurion , from a yard near the lodge , wherein stood several new crosses , awaiting whatsoever victims Roman justice might , from day to day , condemn to death . 
The released Barabbas was himself present , and the most active , in laying the cross upon the back of the already faint and drooping Jesus . 
By the time the great crowd had passed the gate , it was known throughout all Jerusalem , that Pilate had given orders for the crucifixion of the Nazarene Prophet ; and , with one mind , all who had known him , and believed in him , or loved him , left their houses , to go out after him , to witness his crucifixion ; for , I forgot to say , that Caiaphas had promised , if Jesus were delivered up , his followers should not be molested . 
Mary , his mother , my cousin Mary , Martha and her sister , Lazarus , John , and Peter , and Thomas , and some women , his relatives from Galilee , and many others also went . 
Jesus was borne in front , where we could now and then catch the gleam of a Roman spear . 
We hastened to get near him , and , with difficulty , made our way to the head of the throng ; both foes and friends giving back , when they saw his weeping mother among us . 
Jesus had , at length , sunk to the ground , under the weight of the wooden beams on which he was to die , and fainted . 
`` He is dead ! '' 
was the cry of those about him ; but , as we drew near , he was reviving , some one having offered wine to his lips , and poured water upon his brow . 
He stood up , and looking mildly around . 
Meeting his mother 's gaze , he said , touchingly : `` Weep not ! 
Thus speaking , he smiled upon his mother , and upon us , with a certain look of Divine peace illuminating his countenance . 
Barabbas , the robber-chief , who had , in some degree , taken the lead of the mob , now , with the aid of three men , raised the cross to the shoulders of Jesus , and ordered him to move on . 
Barabbas again raised Jesus to his feet , and began to scourge him , to make him drag the heavy beams up the steep of Calvary . 
But he had no strength to advance three steps with it , though he made the effort to obey his tyrannous executioners . 
At this crisis they discerned the Syro-Phœnician merchant , Simon of Cyrene , a venerable man , well-known to all in Jerusalem , and father of the two young men , Rufus and Alexander , who were followers of Jesus , having sold , the last year , all they had , in order to become his disciples , and sit at his feet , and listen to his Divine teachings . 
But when he beheld Jesus standing , pale and bleeding , by the fallen cross , and knew what was required of him , he burst into tears , and kneeling at his feet , said : `` If they compel me to do this , Lord , think not that I aid thy death ! 
Simon , who is a powerful man , though three-score years of age , raised the extremity of the beam , and Jesus essayed to move under the weight of the other ; but he failed . 
Thus speaking in a courageous and bold voice , and looking as brave as if he would as gladly be nailed to the cross for his Master , as carry it after him , -LRB- for Simon had long believed in him , as well as his sons , -RRB- he lifted the cross upon his shoulders , and ascended the steep after Jesus , who , weak from loss of blood and of sleep , and weary unto death , had to lean , for support , against one arm of the instrument of death . 
The larger cross of the three was that for Jesus . 
He relates that Jesus continued to evince the same sublime composure when the Centurion commanded the crucifiers to advance and nail the malefactors to their crosses . 
He had heard Jesus preach in the wilderness of Jordan , and had once asked him , with deep interest , many things touching the doctrines he taught . 
John , who had seen him talking with Jesus , a few months before , at Bethabara , now recognized him , and saw him regard the Prophet with reverential looks ; and more than once heard the latter speak kind words to him as they climbed the hill . 
When the crucifiers , with their cords , baskets , nails , and iron hammer , drew near him , he said : `` I will not compel you to throw me down , I can die as I have lived , without fear ! 
Thus speaking , he stretched himself upon his cross , and extending his palms along the transverse beam , he suffered them to nail him to the wood , uttering not a moan . 
He glanced towards Jesus at the same time , with an expression of courage , as if he sought to show him that the pain could be borne by a brave man . 
And , perhaps , indeed , Jesus looked as if he needed a heroic example before him to show him how to die without shrinking , for his cheek was like the marble of Paros , in its whiteness , and he seemed ready to drop to the earth from weakness . 
His youth -- his almost Divine beauty , which not even his tangled hair , and torn beard , and blood-streaked countenance , could wholly hide -- the air of celestial innocence that beamed from his eyes , drew upon him many glances of sympathy , even from some of his foes . 
Jesus smiled forgiveness upon him so sweetly , that the stern Roman 's eyes filled with tears , and he placed his gauntleted hand to his face , to conceal his emotion . 
This was spoken to Jesus , who made no reply ; for , at this moment , the crucifiers drew nigh , to prepare him , by stripping , for the cross , lying at his feet . 
As an hour or two will elapse before all is ready for our safe departure , I will occupy the interval in completing my narrative of the crucifixion of Jesus ; especially as Rabbi Amos , finding I have been so careful , heretofore , in recording all things concerning him , desires me not to omit any particulars ; as my account may hereafter be convenient to refer to , and , perhaps , if necessary , be laid before Cæsar , in defence of such as may be sent to Rome on charges of sedition . 
When the Centurion , to whom was committed , by Pilate , the charge of conducting the crucifixion of Jesus , gave orders to bind him also to the cross , which lay upon the ground , like an altar awaiting its victim , the four Parthian soldiers , his brutal crucifiers , laid hold upon him , and began to strip him of his garments , for his enemies had put on him his own clothes , when they led him out of the hall of Pilate . 
`` The mother of Jesus , '' I answered , indignantly . 
I could not look towards the place where Jesus stood . 
I could hear the awful preparations -- the rattling of the hard cord , as they bound him to the cross , and the low , eager voices of the four busy Parthians ; and then the rattling of the spikes ; and then a silence like that of the grave ! 
A shriek burst from the soul of his mother , that echoed far and wide , among the tombs of Golgotha ! 
But Jesus made no moan , though the unearthly pallor of his countenance showed how inexpressible was his torture . 
The three crosses , that of Jesus in the midst , as the place of chief dishonor , being raised into the air , and fixed in the sockets of the rock , the Centurion commanded the adjacent space to be cleared , and that the malefactors be left to die . 
Oh , what a fearful death for Jesus ! 
for him whom we knew so well , and whom we still loved , although he had deceived us . 
There , thought we , he might linger two or three days , dying slowly , as some have done , and exposed to the fierce sun by day , and the chilly winds of night , while above them hovered , on steady wings , the savage birds of prey , impatient for their feast . 
Much of the residue of the account I have from John , who remained at the last close to the cross , while we stood afar off , with his weeping mother , Mary of Bethany , Martha , Lazarus , and Mary , the mother of Salome , and other women , our friends from Galilee , who also had hope in Jesus . 
There we waited , in expectation of seeing him do some mighty miracle from the cross , and descend unharmed , showing to the world , thereby , his title to be the Messias of God . 
The soldiers , who had nailed Jesus to the tree , began to divide , with noisy oaths , his garments among themselves , as well as those of the THE CRUCIFIXION OF OUR SAVIOUR.THE CRUCIFIXION OF OUR SAVIOUR . 
But I could not see the robe , which Jesus had worn , thus desecrated ; for still , oh yes , still we loved him , even in his death , which death was his and our infamy ! 
The mother of Jesus received the robe with deep emotions of gratitude to us all . 
After Jesus had hung about an hour upon the cross , Æmilius came from Pilate , and bore the inscription , which it is usual to place above the heads of malefactors , showing their name , and the crime for which they are crucified . 
Above the head of Jesus , by means of a small ladder ' was placed this inscription , in Greek , Latin and Hebrew : `` This is Jesus , `` The King of the Jews . '' 
When the wicked Abner read this , he turned angrily to the Centurion , and to Æmilius , who stood sadly near the cross : `` Write not , O Roman , that he is ` King of the Jews . ' 
Abner upon this mounted a mule , and hastened into the city to the Procurator , and laid his complaint before him . 
The Jews , in the meanwhile , mocked Jesus , and wagged their heads at him , and reminded him of his former miracles and prophecies . 
He had now lost faith in Jesus as a Prophet , but he loved him still as a man , and pitied him for his sufferings . 
He talked with him , and earnestly prayed him , as he hung , if he were indeed a god , to show his power . 
Jesus made no reply : but , shortly , said , in a faint voice -- `` I thirst . '' 
While Æmilius was affixing a sponge , dipped in this vessel of vinegar , upon a reed , split at the end to hold it firmly , Ishmerai , who all the while , as he hung , had uttered execrations upon his crucifiers , and upon Pilate , called , howling fiercely , to Jesus : `` If thou be the Son of God , save thyself and us ! 
But Omri , rebuking his fellow , said : `` Dost thou not fear God , seeing thou art in the same condemnation . 
Jesus turned his bleeding head towards him , and , with a smile of ineffable glory radiating his pale face , said : `` Verily , I say unto thee , this day shalt thou be with me in Paradise . '' 
At this moment , Æmilius came near with his dripping sponge , and presented the reed upwards to the parched lips of the suffering Jesus . 
When he tasted it , he would not drink , for he perceived it was the opiate which was usually given , in compassion to shorten the anguish of the crucified . 
But Jesus retaining his senses , in all their clearness , suffered all that such a fearful death imposes upon its victim . 
The form of Jesus , amid the universal gloom , shone as if divinely transfigured , and a soft halo of celestial light encircled his brow like a crown of glory ; while the dark bodies of the two robbers could scarcely be discerned , save by the faint radiance emanating from his own . 
The darkness continuing , many of the multitude at length ceased their moans , and the beating of their breasts , and rending their garments , and arose to their feet ; but moved not ; for none could stir from his place , for the midnight depth of gloom . 
Mary , his mother , and Lazarus said , with awe , both speaking together : `` This is his power . 
At length the cloud above the cross parted , with a loud peal of thunder , while a shower of terrible lightnings fell , like lances of fire , all around the hanging form of Jesus , which immediately lost its halo and its translucent radiance . 
His face , at the same time , became expressive of the most intense sorrow of soul , and he seemed , to all eyes , to be the central point of this fierce wrath of the heavens . 
Our rising hopes were blasted by the livid lightnings , which seemed to blast him . 
His mother gave utterance to a groan of agony , and sank upon the ground , satisfied that her son was truly accursed of God . 
Jesus then turned his head , and looked affectionately upon his mother , and committed her to the tender care of John , who stood supporting her near the cross . 
The mother of Jesus , who I thought went with the two Mary 's and Martha , remained at home unable to bear the sight of her dead son . 
On the day on which the wonderful events took place , which I have detailed at large in my last letter , that day which can never , for its signs and wonders , be forgotten in Jerusalem , the chief priests , at the head of whom was Abijah , met Pilate as he was riding forth from the city , attended by a score of men at arms , to survey the deep rents made by the earthquake , and to hear from the mouths of all the peole the particulars of the marvels which attended the crucifixion of Jesus . 
When they came near him , they besought him that he would command his soldiers to take down the bodies , as the next day was a high-day , and that it was contrary to their customs to have criminals executed or left hanging on that day . 
When he came in front of the crosses , he saw that Jesus hung as if dead , while the thieves still breathed , and from time to time heaved groans of anguish , although partly insensible from the effects of the opiate which had been administered to them . 
When the soldiers came to Jesus they saw that He was already dead . 
He seemed like a Phidian statue of the whitest marble of Paros . 
His polished limbs were shaped with celestial symmetry ; his golden hair was tossed by the evening breeze about his brow and shoulders ; his divine aspect death could not mar ; and the contrast he presented to the rough forms of the two malefactors between whom he hung , struck even the rude soldiers . 
Thus speaking , he directed his spear to the side of Jesus , and cleaved it to his heart . 
Until that moment he had believed that Jesus would revive and descend from the cross ; for to the last all our faith in his power to save himself was firm , though greatly tried when we saw him in the hands of the Roman soldiers . 
John , first having delivered the mother of Jesus to our care , and many of the women and others who had loved and followed him , remained long watching him , and expecting some great event . 
Jesus was dead -- dead , and thus proved a deceiver . 
Yet his emotions were not of anger , but of sorrow ; for he greatly loved him . 
When he raised his head to gaze upon his crucified Master , he saw flowing from the rent in his side two fountains together , one of crimson blood , the other of crystal water . 
He could not believe what he saw , until the soldiers and the Centurion also saw it , and expressed aloud their wonder at such a marvel . 
When John saw that Jesus was indeed dead , and all hope of his restoration to life was destroyed , he drew near , and asked permission of the Centurion to be allowed to have the body ; for he had promised the mourning mother of the dead son that he would recover it , if possible , for sacred burial . 
But in the meanwhile , Rabbi Joseph , the counsellor of Arimathea , whom , my dear father , you have , many years ago , well known to be a man of probity and honor , and who stands high in favor with Pilate , met him as he was skirting the wall of the city with his cohort , and asked him if , when Jesus should be pronounced to be dead , he might take down the body and give it sepulture . 
The sad bearers of the dead body of Jesus raised their sacred burden from the ground , and trode onward , their measured foot-falls echoing among the aisles of the garden . 
The body of Jesus , wrapped in its shroud of spotless linen , and surrounded by the preserving spices of Arabia , was then borne into the tomb , and laid upon the table of stone which Joseph had prepared for his own last restingplace . 
Rabbi Joseph , Nicodemus , and the rest of the friends of Jesus , then slowly retired , leaving a sentinel pacing to and fro before the tomb , and others grouped about beneath the trees or on the steps of the sepulchre , playing at their favorite game of dice , or gazing upon the broad moon and singing their native Italian airs ; yet with their arms at hand ready to spring to their feet at the least alarm or word of alert . 
Oh , that these forces were here on the day of the crucifixion , for then , says Rabbi Amos , Pilate , conscious of military strength , would have acted freely , and saved Jesus from their hands . 
Jesus is alive!Jesus has RISEN FROM THE DEAD ! 
Jesus has proved himself to be the Son of God ! 
Oh , now we know that Jesus is , indeed , the Messias who should come ! 
that I should have written to you such words of disbelief and of doubt , and have thought him in my heart a deceiver ! 
But I have seenhim , and he has forgiven me ! 
None of us understood his words , which he spake to us before his crucifixion , concerning his death , and hence all our consternation and despair . 
His death , to our benighted apprehensions , seemed the seal to a life of falsehood : the proof that he was a false prophet , rather than , as we now know it to be , a proof of his being the Son of God , by his resurrection from the dead ! 
Our Mighty Master -- Jesus -- the very Son of God , the Blessed ! 
Jesus is risen from the dead . 
He is alive , and walking ! 
I have seen Him -- he has spoken to Mary of Bethany , Lazarus 's sister , and also to me ! 
We three now hastened together towards the garden of Joseph , I wishing my feet wings , that I might reach the sepulchre sooner , fearing that the vision of Jesus would be vanished ere I arrived . 
The soldiers hurried forward into the city ; while , confirmed now in the certainty that Jesus was risen , I hastened , with Martha and Mary , in the direction of the garden `` Thou believest now , Adina , '' said Mary of Bethany , to me , as we flew along . 
I know that ye seek Jesus , which was crucified ! 
He is not here , but is risen , as he foretold . 
But I had not advanced so far as the gate of the garden , being behind the rest , when I beheld Jesus himself standing in my path . 
daughter of Israel , ' he said , ` Be not afraid . 
As we drew near , a bright light suddenly shone out from the tomb ; and upon going nigher I beheld two angels , clothed in white robes , and with countenances of Divine radiance , seated , one at the head , and the other at the foot of the slab of marble , on which the body of Jesus had lain . 
`` Be not afraid , daughters of Jerusalem , '' said one of the angels , speaking to us in the Hebrew tongue ; `` He whom ye seek , liveth -- and dieth no more!He is risen from the tomb , which could not hold him but through his consent ; for Jesus is Lord of Life , and Victor over Death and Hell , forevermore ! 
The angels then vanished from our sight ; and at the same moment John and Peter came running , and seeing the stone rolled away , John stooped down , and looked in , and said that he saw the linen clothes in which the body of Jesus had been wrapped , lying folded together , and also the napkin which had been bound about his head . 
He then called to John , who also went in , and both were convinced that their Lord had indeed risen from the dead ; and when we made known to them what the angels had said to us , that Jesus would go before , and meet them in Galilee , they rejoiced greatly , and shortly afterwards departed , to hasten into Galilee , no longer doubting , but believing . 
I also returned with them , to convey the news to Mary , the mother of Jesus , who had not left the house , and scarcely her bed , in her great sorrow , since the day of the crucifixion . 
Mary of Bethany , however , remained , lingering near the tomb , hoping that Jesus had not yet left the garden , and that she might once more behold him . 
Seated upon the steps of the tomb , weeping for joy at his resurrection , and wishing once more to behold him , she heard a footstep behind her , and , turning round , saw a man standing near her . 
It was Jesus himself , and kneeling , she was about to clasp his feet , when he said to her : `` Touch me not , Mary , I am not yet ascended to my Father . 
Jesus then vanished out of her sight ; and she came and told all these things to us , and to the disciples ; and we all , once more , believed that Jesus was Messias and Christ , the immortal Son of the Blessed . 
Such joy as filled the bosoms of his friends was never before experienced by human beings . 
Our happiness and exultation now were in proportion to our depression before his resurrection . 
Caiaphas hearing the uproar , sprang from his couch to inquire the cause of it , and on being assured by his servants , `` Jesus has burst his tomb and risen alive from the dead ! '' 
Caiaphas and the priests in the meanwhile assembled together in full sanhedrim , and hearing the testimony of the Centurion , were convinced that the fact could not be concealed of Jesus ' resurrection . 
He has told every one since that he must have seena spirit , for that the disciples of Jesus came by night and stole away the body of their master , while they slept , overcome with watching . 
His soldiers have also been bribed to tell the same tale . 
As Æmilius , who is filled with great joy at the resurrection of Jesus , to-day very justly says : `` If these soldiers slept on guard , they merited death therefor by the military laws of the empire . 
If , while sleeping , their charge -- the dead body of Jesus -- was taken away , they deserve death for failing to prevent it . 
He knows , because he has privately examined many of the soldiers , that Jesus did burst his tomb , and that angels rolled away the stone without breaking his seals , which could not have been left unmarred , but by a miracle . 
He knows that Jesus has arisen -- for it is believed that he has also beheld him ; at least such is the rumor of the Pretorium . 
It was the form of Jesus visible before him , doubtless , that drove him in such amazement from his Hall to his secret-chamber ; for it was remarked that he started , turned deadly pale , and essayed to address the invisible space before him , as if he saw a spirit . 
Therefore his soldiers are not molested -- and their exemption from arrest , is proof that the body of Jesus was not stolen away while they slept . 
That Jesus of Nazareth is alive from the dead is true , and if I had not seen him , the evidence is complete enough to convince me of the fact . 
Besides the facts which I have stated , is the increasing testimony of the thousands , who , to-day , have gone out of the city to see the sepulchre where he was laid . 
They say , both enemies of Jesus as well as our friends , that it was impossible for the door to have been opened by any human being , not by Pilate himself , without marring the seals . 
My dear father , remember no more my unbelief , but with me , believe in Jesus , that He is the Son of God , the Saviour of Israel , the immortal Christ of the Prophets . 
I am now at Bethany , where I have been some time making it my home , for such was the hostility of the Jews , incited by the chief priests , against us , that , by Pilate 's command , we were compelled to leave Jerusalem on the day of the resurrection , to remain until their hatred had in some degree subsided ; for he said that the continued presence there of the disciples of Jesus , kept up constant occasion for tumult and interposition of the Roman authority . 
From the preaching of John the Baptiser and the baptism of Jesus by him , until the glorious resurrection of the mighty Son of God ! 
Oh , read , reflect , compare the prophets that speak of Messias , with the life , and words , and deeds of Jesus ; and the life of Jesus with the prophets . 
There thou wilt see that he has proven himself the very Christ , by what we in our ignorance looked upon as the seal affixed to an impostor . 
You will find that in my letters I have told you that on the cross Jesus uttered these very words . 
and yet we rejected Jesus as soon as he died ! 
Read and compare these acknowledged prophecies of Messias with the accounts in my letters , dear father , and you will not only be convinced that Jesus is the Messias of the prophets , and Christ of God , but you will perceive that his humiliation and sufferings before Pilate and Caiaphas , his agony on the cross , his death and burial , instead , as we ignorantly conceived , of being evidences that he was not the Christ , were proof that He was the very Son of the Highest -- the Shiloh of Jehovah foretold by the prophets -- the Anointed King of Israel . 
See , in all you read , Jesus as the end of the prophets , the goal of all their far-seeing prophecies , the veritable and sure realization of their prophetic visions . 
This question , my dear father , was also put by some of the Jews to Jesus . 
He replied : `` Elias truly has come , and ye knew him not , and ye have done unto him whatsoever you list . '' 
`` He who came crying in the wilderness before me , and who spake of me , and whom Herod hath slain , '' He answered . 
`` But his spirit and power were those of Elias , '' answered Jesus . 
Thus , my dear father , has Jesus in all particulars proved himself to be the subject of all prophecy -- the King of Israel . 
Jesus has talked with me since his resurrection , and explained all this to me , and much more that is wonderful and full of joy . 
It is now four weeks since he arose , and during that time , he has been not only seen by all the disciples , but by hundreds of his followers . 
The seventh day after his resurrection he appeared openly at Nazareth , on the sea-shore , to Peter , John , Andrew , James , and other disciples , to his numerous relatives , and many of the chief citizens of his town , all of whom not only recognized him , but marveled to see his crucified hands and feet . 
That He is in the flesh in reality , and not a spirit , He has proven to his disciples , by eating with them ; and in a remarkable way to an incredulous disciple , called Thomas , who , not believing that Jesus was risen in his real body from the dead , was told by the Divine Lord to place his fingers into his hands , and his hand into his side ; which Thomas in fact did do ; when , falling at his feet in amazement and adoration , he worshiped him as God . 
It would take much time , my dear father , to record the numerous instances in which the risen Lord has been seen and spoken with , by persons who knew him before his crucifixion ; so that there is no fact so fully established in the minds of many thousands in Judah , as the resurrection of Jesus from the dead . 
They had become the followers of Jesus , because they saw in him that moral purity and truth , which formed the elements of their own characters . 
John , who is a member of this divine council , says that the power of Jesus , the extent and majesty of his kingdom , the infinite results of his death and resurrection , are not to be conceived of by those who have not listened to the sublime revelations of his own lips . 
Jesus has moreover taught his disciples that the Gentiles are to share equally with the children of Abraham the benefits of his death and resurrection ; that this good news shall be proclaimed to them by his disciples , and that they will gladly hear it and believe . 
`` Thou shalt see for thyself ere many days pass , '' answered Jesus . 
What is remarkable , dear father , notwithstanding the Jews have heard that Jesus walks everywhere through Jewry , yet no efforts are made to lay hands on him . 
At his presence , crowds of his enemies fly like the stricken multitude before the advancing sirocco . 
His presence in Judea is a present dread , like some great evil , to those who fear him ; but like a celestial blessing to more who love him . 
Pilate , on the eve of making a journey last week to Bethel , before quitting the city , dispatched couriers in advance to ascertain whether Jesus the crucified was on the line of his route ! 
Caiaphas having occasion to go to Jericho , a few days after the Passover , hearing that Jesus had been seen with his disciples on the road , made a circuit round by Luz and Shiloh , in order not to meet him . 
The gates of this city are kept constantly shut , lest he should enter within the walls : some of the chief priests fearing greatly to behold his face , while others imagine that he is engaged in raising an army , to advance upon and take Jerusalem from the Romans . 
And doubtless , dear father , were the kingdom of Jesus of this world , he would in a few days lead a countless host against the city , and make himself master of Judea . 
Oh , that you were here now , that you might be taken by John to see Jesus : for from what he says he will not long remain visible among us . 
Whither he goeth or how he goeth away , no man can say . 
In my last I informed you that Jesus , after his wonderful resurrection , which was declared to all men by infallible proofs , gathered once more his amazed and adoring disciples about him , and taught them , with more than mortal wisdom and eloquence , the great truths appertaining to his kingdom , which he now appointed them to extend throughout all the world . 
`` Mary , '' said Jesus , laying his hand gently upon her forehead , `` I am going to my Father 's house ! 
Thus speaking , he walked slowly onward towards the hill of Bethany , not far from the place where Lazarus was buried . 
John drew nearest to him , and upon his knees , with clasped hands , looked towards him earnestly ; for he knew , as he afterwards told us , what would take place ; Jesus having informed him the night before . 
Joy and yet tears were on his face , as he gazed with blinded eyes , as one gazes on the noon-day sun , upon his Divine Master . 
At the foot of the eminence towards the holy city , slept the gardens of Gethsemane , where Jesus loved to walk , and where he was arrested . 
Jesus seemed for a moment to survey these scenes of his suffering , of his ignominy and death , with the look of a divine conqueror . 
He then turned to his disciples and said : -- `` Ye have been with me in my sorrows , and you now shall behold my glory , and the reward which my Father doth give me . 
Thus speaking , in a voice that thrilled every bosom with emotions indescribable , he extended his hands above their heads and blessed them , while we all fell upon our faces to the ground , also to receive his blessing . 
He then lifted up his eyes to the calm blue depths of heaven , and said : -- `` And now , O Father , glorify thou me with thine own self , with the glory which I had with Thee before the world was ! '' 
As he spoke , we raised our faces from the ground , and saw him leaving the earth , rising from the hill-top into the air , with a slow and majestic ascension ; his hands outspread over us beneath , as if shedding down blessings upon us all . 
The loud burst of surprise which rose from five hundred voices at seeing him soar away into the atmosphere , was followed by a profound and awful silence , as we watched him rise and still rise , ascending and still ascending into the upper air , his whole form growing brighter and brighter , as the distance widened between his feet and the earth ! 
Upon our knees , in speechless amazement , we followed his ascent with our eyes , not a word being spoken by any soul ; and hearts might have been heard beating in the intense expectation of the moment . 
Surrounding Jesus , like a shining cloud , they received him into their midst , and hid him from our eyes , amid the glories of their celestial splendor . 
`` The Lord strong and mighty , even the Lord mighty in battle against principalities and powers , '' was chaunted back from the ascending escort of Jesus , in the sublimest strains of triumphant joy . 
In a few seconds we saw that they were angels , alighting on the place Jesus had left ; they said to the eleven , `` Why gaze ye up into heaven , ye men of Galilee ? 
This same Jesus whom ye have seen go into heaven , shall so come in like manner as ye have now seen him ascend ! '' 
Upon inquiring of others , who were also present , I find that only a few of the disciples of Jesus , besides the eleven , heard the heavenly chorus , and saw the cloud to be living angels . 
But to us , his dear friends , it was permitted to behold his glory , and to witness his reception heavenward by the angelic servants of his Father . 
But one thing I have presented clearly to you , dear father , and that is the factthat Jesus has ascended into the heaven of heavens ! 
Such , my dear father , is the appropriate crowning event of the extraordinary life of Jesus , both Messias and Christ ! 
All that Jesus said of himself is therefore true ! 
Jesus , the son of Maryin His human nature , was the Son of Godin His Divine Nature ; an incomprehensible and mysterious union , whereby He has brought together in harmony the two natures , separated far apart by sin , by sacrificing His own body as a sin-offering , to reconcile both in oneImmaculate body upon the cross . 
When we meet , which you rejoice me in saying , will be on the first day of the week , at Jerusalem , I will unfold to you all that the Divine and glorified Jesus has taught me . 
Doubt not that He is Messias . 
Hesitate not to accept Him ; for He is the end of Moses , and of the Law , and of the Prophets , the very Shiloh who should come and restore all things , to whom be glory , power , dominion , majesty , and excellency evermore . 
-LSB- Here terminates the series of letters of the Jewish maiden to her father , written during the Procuratorship of Pontius Pilate , under the reign of Tiberius Cæsar , the Roman Emperor . 
They cover a period of three years and six months , embracing all the events of the Life of John the Baptist , and of the Holy Jesus of Nazareth , to the day of His ascension into heaven . 
The Roman Centurion , Æmilius , it would appear from history , became Procurator of the Island of Britain in the West , and with Adina , his noble lady , was the first to entertain the Christian Apostle , Saul of Tarsus , otherwise Paulus , on his visit thither to proclaim at those ends of the earth the gospel of Jesus the Crucified , in obedience to the command left by Him with His disciples , that they should preach His gospel to every creature . 
The first establishment of the Faith of Jesus in this remote Roman barbaric Province by the Jewish Apostle , and its spread throughout the island , are to be found written in detail in certain letters , which the daughter of Æmilius and of Adina wrote to her brother , a Roman knight at Rome . -RSB- 
