The Spaniards , finding the syllables Pegrum a harsh morsel , spoke of the colonel , as they might of any stranger , as Don Fulano , -- as we should say , `` John Smith . '' 
John Brent . '' 
Youth had been a harsh season to Brent . 
Brent was a man of genius . 
All experience , therefore , piled itself upon him . 
He must learn the immortal consolations by probing all suffering himself . 
Brent 's story is a short one or a long one . 
Brent was a delicate , beautiful , dreamy boy . 
I was steady ; he was erratic . 
I was calm ; he was passionate . 
I was reasonably happy ; he was totally miserable . 
The cause was this ; and it has broken weaker hearts than Brent 's . 
Dr. Swerger was the cause of Brent 's misery . 
Swerger was Brent 's step-father . 
Mrs. Brent was pretty , silly , rich , and a widow . 
One intuition of Brent 's was worth all the thoughts of Swerger 's life-time . 
So had the boy Brent , -- the logic of a true , pure , loving heart . 
I knew , however , that his mother was visited by compunctions ; that she wished to be reconciled to her son ; that Swerger refused , and renewed his anathemas ; that he bullied the poor little woman to death ; that Brent had to wring the property out of him by a long lawsuit , which the Swergerites considered an unconstitutional and devilish proceeding , another proof of total depravity . 
Of course this experience had a tendency to drive Brent out of the common paths , to make him a seer instead of a doer . 
The vulgar , therefore , called Brent a wasted life , a man of genius manqué , a pointless investigator , a purposeless dreamer . 
Brent , therefore , boy and man , had had tough experience . 
So Brent paused in his work . 
Brent discovered this , and went about the world still pointless , purposeless , manqué , as they said , -- minding his own business , getting his facts . 
said Brent , pointing his whip at my traps . 
says Brent . 
The fine sensitiveness of a poetic man like Brent makes a prophet of him , -- that is to say , a man who has the poet 's delicate insight into character anticipates everything that character will do . 
So Brent was never surprised ; though I confess I was , when I found men , horses , and places doing what he had hinted long before . 
I see Brent every step and every moment . 
Brent and I stood the test . 
not on John Brent , the invulnerable . 
He laughs in the ugly phiz of Trouble . 
Brent was closer to Nature than any man I ever knew . 
Brent with Nature was like a youth with the maiden he loves . 
In all this time I learned to love the man John Brent , as I had loved the boy ; but as mature man loves man . 
`` If Jake Shamberlain is the captain of the party , '' said Brent , when we caught sight of them upon the open , `` we 'll join them . '' 
hailed Brent , riding up to the train . 
`` It 's my friend , Richard Wade , '' said Brent . 
`` Ef you turn out prime , one of the out and outers , like Brother John Brent , I 'll tip 'em the wink to let you off easy at the Judgment Day , Gentile or not . 
says Brent to me . 
Brent read the strangers , shivered at me , and said , sotto voce , `` What a precious pair of cutthroats ! 
`` The Cassius of the pair is bad enough , '' said Brent ; `` but that oily little wretch sickens me . 
`` Yes , '' said Brent , knocking the ashes out of his pipe ; `` night always seems to judge and sentence the day . 
`` I am never bored , '' said Brent to me , `` with the company or the talk of men like those , good or bad . 
`` Nil humani a me alienum puto , I repeat , '' said Brent , `` but that foul stuff is not the voice of humanity . 
`` I 've seen villains just like those two , '' said Brent , `` in every hell in Europe and America . 
Once , too , Brent heard Murker , aliasSmith , call his partner Larrap . 
`` Larrap is appropriate , '' said I , when Brent told me this ; `` just the name for him , as that unlucky mule branded ` A. & A. ' could testify . '' 
`` I 'm sorry old Bridger has come to grief , '' said Brent to me , as we rode over the plain toward the fort . 
replied Brent . 
Presently Brent 's quick eye caught some white spots far away on the slope of the prairie , like sails on the edge of a dreamy , sunny sea . 
said Brent . 
`` I can not laugh about that , '' said Brent . 
`` I do n't wish to hear that kind of stuff , '' said Brent , turning sternly upon Larrap . 
Brent caught him by the collar , and gave him a shake . 
Brent gave the greasy man a fling . 
said Brent . 
`` Sizzum , '' Brent avowed to me , sotto voce , `` may be a blind guide with ditchward tendencies in faith . 
Brent asked . 
`` And this is one of the religions of the nineteenth century , and such a man is its spokesman , '' said Brent to me , as the meeting broke up , and we strolled off alone to inspect the camp . 
`` I suppose , '' said Brent , `` that superstition must be the handmaid of religion , except in minds very holy , or very brave and thorough in study . 
So Brent and I commented upon the Sizzum heresy and its mouthpiece . 
Brent and I walked about to survey the camp . 
`` We have not seen , '' said Brent , `` one hearty John Bull , or buxom Betsy Bull , in the whole caravan . '' 
They were in good spirits , and went into little panics when they saw Brent in his Indian rig , and then into `` Lor me ! '' 
`` Perhaps we waste sympathy , '' said Brent , `` on these people . 
said Brent . 
John Brent and I , not to be deemed intruders , were walking away from the neat wagon at the upper end of the Mormon camp , when an oldish man beside the wagon gave us `` Good evening . '' 
Brent and I looked at each other . 
Brent and I exchanged looks . 
`` Mr. Richard Wade , late of California ; Mr. John Brent , a roving Yankee . 
Brent took the teakettle from her hand , and filled the teapot . 
said he , turning to Brent . 
Brent was kneeling at Miss Clitheroe 's feet , holding a cup for her to fill . 
Evidently to change the subject , she engaged Brent again in his tea-table offices . 
If I had been silent , Brent had not . 
Brent noticed the pain and the blush . 
Brent and I kept aloof as much as we might . 
`` We will certainly , '' said Brent , looking toward Miss Clitheroe for her invitation . 
said Mr. Clitheroe , interpreting Brent 's look ; `` my daughter will be charmed to see you . 
laughed Larrap , leering at Brent . 
Brent made a spring at the fellow . 
muttered he , shrinking back , with a cowardly , venomous look . 
Brent turned and walked off in silence . 
John Brent , what can be done ? 
said Brent . 
As Brent and I approached the fort , forth issued Jake Shamberlain , with a drummer on this side and a fifer on that . 
Some of them John Bulls has got their fiddles along . 
`` This helps us , '' said Brent . 
He nodded , but said nothing . 
`` The ragamuffin brigade , '' whispered I to Brent . 
Brent made no answer , and surveyed the throng anxiously . 
whispered I to Brent , after a while . 
`` Come , '' said Brent , `` let us get into purer air and among nobler creatures . 
How little we thought , '' he continued , `` when we were speaking of such scenes and people as we have just left as a possible background , what figures would stand in the foreground ! '' 
`` The stars , '' said Brent , bitterly , `` are cold and cruel as destiny . 
Brent and I could both have wept to hear this crazy , senile stuff . 
Brent dropped behind , talking earnestly with the lady . 
She was walking at some distance with Brent . 
`` O John Brent ! '' 
And if she can not master her father , and you , John Brent , can not master her , there is no hope . '' 
If he had given me a shadow of encouragement , I was ready to follow out the hint I had dropped when I said to Brent , `` What a night for a gallop ! '' 
Plead as he might , John Brent would never win her to save herself and lose her father ; and indeed that was a desertion he could never recommend . 
Miss Clitheroe and Brent joined us , -- a sadder pair than we . 
`` Dear lady , '' said I , taking her aside a moment while Brent spoke to Mr. Clitheroe , `` we are acquaintances of to-day ; but campaigners must despise ceremony . 
`` Do not speak to me , '' said Brent , `` I will talk to you by and by . '' 
He left me and went toward our horses . 
Bottery was fumbling drunkenly over his fiddle . 
Murker backed him . 
Brent was seated by the embers of a camp-fire , cowered in a heap , like a cold Indian . 
`` John , '' said I , `` I never knew you despondent before . '' 
`` Must we say helpless , John ? '' 
I knew that Larrap hated Brent for his undisguised abhorrence and the ugly words and collision of to-day . 
How I pitied poor Brent ! 
Brent , too , was on the alert . 
Brent , with a moan of weariness , threw himself down again on the grass . 
I kept a double watch of two hours , and then , calling Brent to do his share , threw myself on the grass and slept soundly . 
Brent did not share it . 
His usual gay matinsong was dumb . 
He cowered , chilled and spiritless , by our camp-fire . 
His despair began to infect me . 
`` Come , Brent , '' said I , shaking him by the shoulder , `` start , old fellow ! 
Brent would not turn . 
Brent hardly uttered a word . 
We had ridden some eighteen miles , when Brent fell back out of the dust of our march , and beckoned me . 
`` We will save her , John , '' said I. `` She is my sister from this moment . '' 
Brent and I were alone , as if the world held no other tenants . 
Brent 's instinct was true . 
Sizzum rode straight up to Brent . 
Brent ignored the Mormon . 
Brent 's manner carried conviction , even to Sizzum . 
`` Get the facts , Wade , '' said Brent , `` I can not trust myself to ask . '' 
`` Never mind , Mr. Clitheroe , '' said Brent , tenderly , `` I hope you have not lost a daughter . 
Brent , meantime , had rolled up a little stock of provisions in each man 's double blanket . 
Knives and six-shooters are enough , '' said Brent , as cool as if our ride were an ornamental promenade à cheval . 
`` Steady , steady , '' cried Brent . 
Brent had been quite unimpassioned in his manner until now . 
`` For Luggernel Alley , '' said Brent . 
At the left rode Brent , our leader . 
Brent looked a fit chieftain for such a wild charge over the desert waste , with his buckskin hunting-shirt and leggins with flaring fringes , his otter cap and eagle 's plume , his bronzed face , with its close , brown beard , his elate head , and his seat like a centaur . 
`` It worries me , this delay , '' I said to Brent . 
Brent followed the line with his eye . 
He galloped forward , with a look of triumph . 
Suddenly I saw him fling himself half out of his saddle , and clutch at some object . 
Still going at speed , and holding on by one leg alone , after the Indian fashion for sport or shelter against an arrow or a shot , he picked up something from the bushes , regained his seat , and waved his treasure to us . 
We ranged up and rode beside him over a gap in the sage . 
-- that was what he had stooped to recover . 
`` I take up the gauntlet , '' said Brent . 
Brent 's unerring judgment had divined the course aright . 
and my excited eyes seemed to read , gilded over its entrance , in the dead gold of that hazy October sunshine , words from Dante 's inscription , -- `` Here we are , '' said Brent , speaking hardly above his breath . 
Yes , John Brent , you were right when you called Luggernel Alley a wonder of our continent . 
Brent lifted him at a leap across the arroyo . 
Brent was out of the saddle almost before he struck , raising him . 
No , he would never rise again . 
Both his fore legs were broken at the knee . 
He rested there , kneeling on the rocks where he fell . 
Brent groaned . 
Brent drew his pistol to put poor Pumps out of pain . 
Brent hesitated one heart-beat . 
`` Now Brent ! 
Brent sprang up behind . 
Brent is the slightest body of an athlete I ever saw . 
It seemed one beat of time , it seemed an eternity , when between the ring of the hoofs I heard Brent whisper in my ear . 
Brent , grasping my waist with one arm , was awkward with his pistol . 
Brent shook with a spasm . 
His pistol arm dropped . 
`` I amshot , '' gasped Brent , and sank down fainting . 
Brent was roughly , but not dangerously , shot along the arm . 
If he could but have rest and peace and surgery ! 
This stranger elm filled my heart with infinite tender memories of home , and of those early boyish days when Brent and I lay under the Berkeley College elms , or strayed beneath the elm-built arches up and down the avenues of that fair city clustered round the College . 
In those bright days , before sorrow came to him , or to me my harsh necessity , we two in brotherhood had trained each other to high thoughts of courtesy and love , -- a dreamed-of love for large heroic souls of women , when our time of full-completed worthiness should come . 
And his time had come . 
Brent was lying under the spruces , drowsing with fatigue , reaction , and loss of blood . 
Miss Clitheroe sat by watching him . 
Indeed , from the beginning of our acquaintance yesterday , and now in this meeting of to-day , she had drawn apart from Brent , and frankly approached me . 
Except for Brent 's uneasy stir and unwilling moans , we might have forgotten the deadly business of that day . 
And , indeed , among the heroic gentlemen of the riper time to come , I can not dream that any will surpass in all the virtues and courtesies of the cavalier my friend John Brent , now dismounted and lying there wounded and patient . 
Brent stopped looking about for some one . 
`` But Brent 's wound ! 
Here Brent hailed us cheerily . 
`` It would be stupid for you to die now , John Brent the Lover , with the obstacles cut away and an heroic basis of operations . '' 
Brent was nerved to rise and walk a few steps to the camp-fire , supported by her arm and mine . 
And for personages , there was Armstrong , with his head turbaned , saddling the white machine ; the two mules , packed and taking their last nibbles of verdure ; Miss Clitheroe , in her round hat and with a green blanket rigged as riding-skirt , mounted upon the sturdy roan ; Brent resting on my shoulder , and stepping on my knee , as he climbed painfully to his seat on the tall sorrel ; Don Fulano waiting , proud and eager . 
She was confident of Brent 's instant recovery , with repose , and a surgeon more skilful than she , at Fort Laramie . 
She insisted upon her share of camp-duty ; and her great gray eyes were often to be seen gravely fixed upon a frying-pan , or watching a roasting bird , as it twirled slowly before the fire , with a strip of pork featly disposed overhead to baste that succulent revolver ; while Brent , poor fellow , lay upon the grass , wrapped in blankets , slowly accumulating force for the next day 's journey , and watched her with wonderment and delight that she could condescend to be a household goddess . 
Except for Brent 's wound , we four might have had a joyous journey , full of the true savor of brave travel . 
Brent revived . 
Forthe last hour I had ridden close to Brent . 
I sprang from Fulano , Brent quietly drooped down into my arms . 
We carried Brent in . 
Evidently a fine fellow , Ruby ; and , what was to the point , fond of John Brent . 
Dr. Pathie shook his head . 
I do n't wonder Brent loves her , as I divined he did from what Jake Shamberlain -- shrewd fellow Jake -- said when he consigned the father to me . '' 
I wish we could keep her , for Brent 's sake . '' 
Brent was still in a stupor . 
She stood looking at him a moment . 
He was breathing , but unconscious ; dead to the outer world and her presence . 
She stood looking at him , and seeming with her large , solemn eyes to review those scenes of terror and of relief since she had known him . 
Suddenly she stooped and kissed his forehead . 
Then she passionately kissed his lips . 
She grew to him as if she would interfuse anew that ichor of love into his being . 
She bent again , and kissed him passionately , -- then departed , and her tears were on his cheek . 
Brent ` sstupor lasted many days . 
While his mind slept , Nature was gently renewing him . 
There was no old fever of discontent in his brain . 
He had regrets , but no remorses . 
Others had harmed him ; his life had been a sad one ; he had never harmed himself . 
The thoughts and images tangled in his brain , the `` stuff that dreams are made of , '' were of happy omen . 
No Stygian fancies made his trance unrest . 
Captain Ruby and Doctor Pathie were disposed to growl at the rapidity of Brent 's cure . 
`` Ah , Doctor , '' said Ruby , `` you and I , for want of women to love , have to content ourselves with poetic rovers like Brent . 
Brent is here , wounded . '' 
`` Come in to Brent , '' said I , `` and we will talk matters over . '' 
Brent , I believe , had never identified Miss Clitheroe with the lady Biddulph fled from , and I had never mentioned my suspicions . 
`` Not one word , John ! '' 
Brent comprehended the Baronet 's heart and mind at the word . 
The other , I think , saw as plainly on Brent 's face that he was a lover , and perhaps the more fortunate one . 
Brent told our story in brief . 
`` Our two evil forces are erased from the world , Wade , '' said Brent . 
I knew John Brent well enough to believe that he would achieve the rescue . 
I forgive you , John ; hard it is , but I forgive you for stepping in before me . 
In fact , from the moment I saw her , I thought of no one else . '' 
`` Yes ; that is her power . 
But she could not love me ; so I came away , and we looked up Luggernel Springs and the Alley together , John , to give you a chance to snatch my destiny away from me . '' 
Brent , in his weakness , had no answer to make , except to give his hand to this gentle rival . 
I received her letter after we had parted , John , and I camped with Jake Shamberlain , waiting for the train . 
`` You are a stanch friend , Biron , '' said Brent . 
When can you travel , John ? '' 
said Brent . 
`` I have something to show you , John , '' said Biddulph . 
Brent was himself again . 
`` Certainly , '' said Brent . 
One tall , truculent Pike , the loudest of all that blatant crew , seemed to Brent and myself an old acquaintance . 
`` Yes , '' said Brent ; `` do you wonder that we have to run away to the Rockys and spend our indignation on grizzlys ? '' 
`` Port wine , '' whispered Brent . 
Brent tossed him up the files . 
`` Yes , '' said Brent , taking a nasal tone . 
`` Now , '' said Brent , `` that we 've put in action Christ 's Golden Rule , Jefferson 's Declaration of Independence , and All-the-wisdom 's Preamble to the Constitution , we can sleep the sleep of well-doers , if we have two man-stealers -- and one the brother of a murderer -- only papered off from us . '' 
`` His coquetries are as beautiful as a woman 's , '' said Brent . 
A cursed uproar here , where the hunt are man-stealers , '' said Brent . 
`` I can stand her loving John , and not knowing that she has me for brother too ; I 'm not of the lacrymose classes ; but this mad error of the father and this hopeless faithfulness of the daughter touches me tenderly . 
`` That I will , Armstrong , '' said Brent . 
Meantime nothing from Brent , -- nothing from Miss Clitheroe . 
And Brent . 
I wrote Brent , and re-wrote him ; but no answer . 
He and Brent and I , and a set of other fellows worth knowing , had been comrades in our younger days . 
Brent and Biddulph ! 
Could that be John Brent ? 
He was slouching along , looking upon the ground , a care-worn , dejected man . 
Walk on with us , Wade , and Brent will tell you what we have been doing . '' 
said Brent . 
said Brent , roused a little by my wilful calumny . 
Brent is with me . 
`` You must not think , '' says Brent , `` that I went up to Clitheroe even for Biron 's hospitality . 
`` We have had some queer and some romantic adventures in our search , eh , Brent ? 
said Brent again , as if in answer to my thought . 
said Brent , with a slight shudder . 
cried Brent with fervor . 
When a man like Brent once voluntarily concentrates all his soul on one woman , worthy of his love , thenceforth he must have love for daily food , or life burns dim and is a dying flame . 
Brent walked back with me to Smorley 's . 
Brent bade me good night with a revival of his old self . 
Brent lying wounded , while I gave him water , and a lady bound up his wounds . 
`` Going straight forward and minding my own business , have I effected in one day what Brent has failed in utterly after a search of months ? 
I wanted to shout so that John Brent , miles away across the wilderness of the great city , could hear and come with one step . 
John Brent himself , the wounded knight ; myself , bringing him water from the fountain ; our dear Ellen , kneeling beside ; and bending over us , Don Fulano , the chiefest hero of that terrible ride through the cañon . 
`` Where 's your friend , John Brent ? '' 
Forgive me , John Brent , if I did put my lips close to her burning cheek . 
An injunction not necessary for poor Brent , who sat dreary and listless . 
Brent recognized me in the grimy pirate before him . 
cried Brent . 
