`` Well , Clarence , I 'm glad you 've come . 
`` Well , Clarence , that 's true , but I do n't see that his denying it makes much difference . 
It 's natural enough that a man should say he 's no tory when he 's in a whig camp . 
There 's a chance of broken bones if he says otherwise , which Ned Conway aint a going to resk . '' 
`` Ah , Clarence , he 's your half-brother , and that 's the reason you aint willing to believe any thing agin him ; but I 'm dub ` ous I said nothing worse than the truth when I told Clinch he was a tory . 
I 'm sure the proofs agin him would have hung many a tall chap like himself . '' 
`` Well , that 's the same question , Clarence , only in another language . 
Did he swear to that , Clarence ? '' 
`` I 'm mightily afeard , Clarence -- now , do n't be angry at what I 'm going to say -- but I 'm mightily afeard Edward Conway aint telling you the truth . 
`` Yes , Clarence , and 't was then , so far back as them same days of our boyhood -- and they were mighty sweet days , I tell you -- that I found him out , and l'arned to mistrust him . 
God knows , Clarence , and you ought to know too , that Jack Bannister would like , if he could , all the flesh and blood in this world that was ever a kin of your ` n. I tried mighty hard to love Ned Conway as I loved you , but it was like fighting agin natur ' . 
`` You 're only too good for him , Clarence . 
I somehow almost think he aint naturally even a half-brother of your 'n any how . 
You do n't look like him ; neither eye nor mouth , nor nose nor chin , nor hair nor forehead -- all 's different as if you had come from any two families that lived at opposite eends of the river , and never seed one another . 
Them days is over with me and him , and so I 'll shut up on that subject . 
As for begrudging him the bread and bacon , and the drop of Jamaica , such as we git in the swamp yonder , -- well , I wo n't say nothing , because , you see , I ca n't somehow think you meant to say what you did . 
All that I do say , Clarence , is , that I wish I had enough to give him that would persuade him to show clean hands to his friends and blood-kin , and come out for his country , like every man that has a man 's love for the airth that raised him . '' 
`` I know you mean him no wrong , Jack , and me no pain , when you advise me thus ; but my word is pledged to Edward Conway , and I will keep it , though I perish . '' 
`` And do n't I tell you to keep it , Clarence ? 
You promised to save him from Butler 's men , that was a-hunting him , and what better way than to keep him close from sight ; for , if he once gits a-going agin , and they find his tracks , it wo n't be your boldness or my quickness that 'll git him into the swamp so easily . 
Look you , Clarence , did you think to ask him when he had last seen Flora Middleton ? '' 
`` Why should I ask him that ? 
I had no reason to suppose that he had any particular reason for seeing her at this , or at any other time . '' 
`` Now , Clarence , you need n't be telling me that , when I know so much better . 
I know that if he has n't a reason for seeing her , he 's always had a mighty strong wish that way ; and as for your own feelings , Lord bless you , Clarence , it 's no fault of your ` n , if every second man in the regiment do n't know the soft place in the colonel 's heart by this time , and ca n't put his finger on it whenever he pleases . 
`` Very true ; but that 's no good reason why he should n't love her when he did see her , Clarence . '' 
`` But it is good reason why he should not seek her with his love . '' 
`` I reckon , Clarence , he do n't much stand upon such a reason . 
There 's nothing brotherly in love matters , Clarence ; and even if there was , Ned Conway is about the last person to make much count of it . '' 
`` And did Edward Conway really tell you so , Clarence ? '' 
`` He did -- it was almost his last assurance when I left him . '' 
`` Then he told you a most crooked and abominable lie . 
He has seen her within the last three weeks . '' 
`` There 's nothing , Clarence , in the shape of licking that sich a person do n't desarve . 
I followed out more of his crooks than one , years ago , when there was no war ; and he had all the tricks of a tory even then . '' 
`` That he should basely lie to me , and at such a moment ! 
When I had risked life to save him ! 
Enough , that I know him and suspect him . 
He shall find that I know him . 
He shall see that he can not again cheat me with loving language and a Judas kiss . '' 
`` Ah , Clarence , but you can cheat yourself . 
He knows how quick you are to believe ; and when he puts on them sweet looks , and talks so many smooth words , and makes b ` lieve he 's all humility , and how sorry he is for what he 's done , and how willing he is to do better -- and all he wants is a little time -- as if ever a man wanted time to get honest in ! 
Look you , Clarence , you 're my colonel , and what 's more , I 'm your friend -- you know I love you , Clarence , better than one man ever loved another , and jest as well as Jonathan ever loved David , as we read in the good book ; but , with all my love for you , Clarence , d -- n my splinters , if you let Ned Conway cheat you any longer with his sweet words and sugar promises , I 'll cut loose from you with a jerk that 'll tear every j' int out of the socket . 
`` I 'll think of it , '' said Conway , in subdued tones ; `` meantime , do you take the canoe back to the island and bring him out . 
I 'll bring him out if you say so , Clarence , but it 's not too late to think better of it . 
He 's safe , for all parties , where he is . '' 
`` Clarence , if he turns out to be a tory , what 'll our men say to hear you harboured him ? '' 
they ca n't say that -- they sha n't say it , when Jack Bannister is nigh enough to hear , and to send his hammer into the long jaws that talk such foolishness ; but they 'll think it mighty strange , Clarence . '' 
Edward Conway , to my thinking , Clarence , was never a brother of your ` n , if ` brother ' has any meaning of ` friend ' in it . '' 
On the other hand , the younger of the two , whom we have known by the name of Clarence Conway , and who held a colonel 's command over one of those roving bodies of whig militia , which were to be found at this period in every district of the state , -- though resolute to release his brother from the honourable custody in which circumstances had placed him , still seemed to regret the necessity by which he was prompted to this proceeding . 
There were various feelings conflicting for mastery in his bosom . 
While he did not believe in the charges of political treachery by which his half-brother was stigmatized , he was yet any thing but satisfied that his purposes were politically honest or honourable . 
Equally dubious with his companion on the subject of Edward Conway 's principles , he was yet not prepared to believe in the imputation which had been cast upon his performances . 
He suspected him , not of fighting for the enemy , but of the meaner and less daring employment , of speculating in the necessities of the country ; and , in some way or other , of craftily availing himself of its miseries and wants , to realize that wealth , the passion for which constituted , he well knew , a leading and greedy appetite in the character of his kinsman . 
Clarence Conway was the younger son of a gentleman who came from the West Indies , bringing with him an only child -- then an infant -- the fruit of a first marriage with a lady of Barbadoes , who died in bringing it into the world . 
The infant , Clarence , became the favourite of his grandparents , by whom he was finally adopted . 
He thus became the heir of possessions of a vastness and value infinitely beyond those which by the laws of primogeniture , necessarily accrued to his half-brother . 
To Clarence Conway , therefore , the unfrequent appearance of Edward afforded but little discontent . 
With no such restraints as these , and once more safe from the dangers which had compelled him to seek shelter at the hands of his brother in the swamp , the future conduct of Edward Conway filled the mind of Clarence with many apprehensions ; the more strongly felt , since his falsehood in a particular respect , had been revealed by his companion . 
There was , as the latter had phrased it , a weak or tender spot in the bosom of Clarence Conway , which led him to apprehend every thing of evil should Edward prove false to certain pledges which he had voluntarily made , and proceed to a dishonourable use of his liberty . 
More than once , in the interval which followed from the first futile , to the final and successful invasion of the enemy , had Clarence sought him , to stimulate his patriotism , and urge him to the field . 
How this was done -- by what evasions , or in what manner -- Clarence Conway was at a loss to understand . 
Whenever they did meet , the efforts of Clarence were invariably made , not to find out the mode of life which the other pursued , but simply to assure himself that it was right and honourable . 
To this general object all his counsels were addressed ; but he was still compelled to be content with a general but vague assurance from the other , that it was so . 
Clarence was not willing to ascribe to treachery this inaction ; yet he could not , whenever he gave any thought to the subject , attribute it to any other cause . 
He knew that Edward was no phlegmatic ; he knew that he was possessed of courage -- nor courage merely ; he knew that a large portion of audacity and impulse entered into his character . 
What that business was , however , neither the prayers nor the exhortations of Clarence and his friends could persuade him to declare ; while the discovery of a circumstance , by the latter , which led him to apprehend the interference of the former in another field than that of war , contributed still farther to estrange them from each other . 
While , with vexing and bitter thoughts , Clarence Conway awaited the progress of his companion , with the fugitive whom he had given into his charge , Supple Jack -LRB- for that was the nom de guerreconferred by his comrades upon the worthy woodman , in compliment to certain qualities of muscle which made his feats sometimes remarkable in the course of their forest adventures -RRB- penetrated into the recesses of the swamp , with a degree of diligence which by no means betokened his own disposition of mind in regard to the particular business upon which he went . 
He soon reached the little island on the edge of the Wateree river , where Clarence Conway had concealed his kinsman from the hot hunt which had pursued him to that neighbourhood . 
So suddenly and silently did he send his canoe forward , that her prow struck the roots of the tree , at whose base the fugitive reclined , before he was conscious of her approach . 
The latter started hastily to his feet , and the suspicious mood of Supple Jack was by no means lessened , when he beheld him thrust into his bosom a paper upon which he had evidently been writing . 
The air of Clarence may have been more lofty ; but that of Edward was equally firm . 
The aspect of Clarence Conway was bright and open , like that of an unclouded sky ; that of Edward was dark , reserved , and lowering . 
This was said with an eager insinuating manner , and the hand of Conway was a second time extended to take that of the other . 
` Taint in my natur to keep the same always any more than the weather , and I tell you plainly I 'm quite another sort of person from the boy that used to play with you , and Clarence Conway , long time ago . '' 
`` Ah , Jack , but you hav 'n' t changed to him -- you are the same to Clarence Conway as ever . '' 
I aint ashamed to say that I love Clarence the same as ever , since he never once , in all my dealings with him , boy and man , ever gave me reason to mistrust him . 
You have known me quite as long as you have known Clarence , we have played as much together -- '' `` Ay ! '' 
You hav ` nt been so ready as Clarence to come out for your country . 
Now I 've starved in his company , and run , and fou ` t , and been with him in all sorts of danger , and he 's never been the first to run , and he 's always been the last to feel that he was afraid , and to show that he was hungry . 
For why , -- I know that you 're no friend to Clarence , for all he 's done for you . '' 
I know enough to know that you 've been a-working agin Clarence , and I suspicions you ha 'n' t done working agin him . 
You 've been talking at me ever since the time I helped Clarence to git you into the swamp , as if I had been some old friend of your ` n , and it went agin me to stand quiet and hear you all the time , and not set you right on that matter . 
Theboat , under the adroit management of Supple Jack , soon reached the shore where Clarence Conway awaited them . 
They were both equally tall , strongly made , and symmetrical -- each had the same general cast of countenance -- the hair was not unlike ; the complexion of Edward was darker than that of Clarence . 
The cheek-bones were higher ; the lips , which in Clarence Conway were usually compressed , giving an air of decision to his mouth which approached severity , were , in the case of Edward , parted into smiles , which were only too readily and too easily evoked , not , sometimes , to awaken doubts of their sincerity in the mind of the spectator . 
His hand remained untaken , however , and his eye shrunk from the encounter with that searching glance which awaited him in the eye of Clarence . 
A slight suffusion passed over his cheek , and there was a tremor in his voice as he spoke , which might be natural to the resentment which he must have felt , but which he showed no other disposition to declare . 
`` So cold to me , Clarence ? 
was the reply , and the eye of the speaker wandered from the strong glance of his kinsman , and his lips whitened as he spoke ; `` how , Clarence -- how have I deceived you ? '' 
`` Very true , Clarence , but I did not seek Flora in going there . 
`` I did not seek to convey such an impression , Clarence ; I simply spoke to the point , and spoke with literal exactitude . '' 
`` To answer you frankly , Clarence , '' replied the other with the air of a man unbuttoning his bosom to the examination of the world -- `` I found you jealous and suspicious on this subject -- in just the mood to convert the least important circumstance into a cause of doubt and dissatisfaction ; and , therefore , I withheld from you a fact which , however innocent in itself , and unworthy of consideration , I was yet well aware , in your tone of mind , would assume an importance and character which justly it could not merit . 
Besides , Clarence , there were so many subjects of far more interest to my mind , of which we had no speech , that I did not care to dwell upon the matter longer than was necessary . 
You forget , Clarence , that I had not seen you for months before this meeting . '' 
Edward Conway had somewhat overshot his mark when he spoke so slightingly of a subject to which Clarence attached so high an importance . 
The latter could not believe in the indifference which the other expressed in reference to one so dear to himself as Flora Middleton ; and , in due degree as he felt the probability that so much merit as he esteemed that maiden to possess , could not fail to awaken the tender passion in all who beheld her , so was he now inclined to consider the declaration of his kinsman as an hypocrisy equally gross and shallow . 
He resolved , internally , that he should neither deceive his judgment nor disarm his watchfulness ; that , while he himself forbore reproaches of every sort , which , indeed , at that moment would have seemed ungenerous and ungracious , he would endeavour to maintain a surveillanceover his rival 's movements , which would at least defeat such of his machinations as might otherwise tend to beguile from himself the affections of the beloved object . 
The closing words of Edward Conway suggested a natural change of the subject , of which Clarence quickly availed himself . 
A heavy cloud darkened , though for a moment only , the face of the elder Conway . 
`` There are some very strong prejudices against me in your mind , Clarence , or it would not be difficult for you to understand , how I might very naturally have secrets which should not be revealed , and yet be engaged in no practices which would either hurt my own , or the honour of my family . '' 
I take no heed of these -- I waste no thought on such profitless matters ; and you , Clarence , will save yourself much pain , and me much annoying conjecture , if you will resolve to scorn their consideration with myself , and cast them from your mind . 
`` Your doubt does them gross injustice ; '' replied Clarence Conway , with increased earnestness ; `` they are known men -- tried and true -- and whatever may be their excesses and violence , these are owing entirely to the monstrous provocation they have received . 
They bear to you no ordinary hate -- they speak of you in no ordinary language of denunciation -- '' `` My dear Clarence , '' said the other , `` you seem to forget all the while , that they never spoke of me at all -- certainly not by name . 
`` It is nevertheless exceedingly strange , Edward , '' was the musing answer of the still unsatisfied Clarence ; `` it is strange how any set of men should make such a mistake . '' 
Really , Clarence , I am afraid you are as credulous now at twenty-five as you were at five . '' 
`` I should not care much for the idle gabble of these country geese , Clarence , but that you should echo their slanders -- that you should join in the hiss . '' 
This story of the Black Riders , for example -- do you really believe , Clarence , in the alleged existence of this banditti ? '' 
Really , Clarence , the very extravagance of these stories should save you from belief ; and I must say , if you do believe , that a little more of the brotherly love which you profess , should keep you from supposing me to be the savage monster of whom they give such horrid traits in the chief of this Black banditti . 
My very appearance -- in our youth , Clarence , considered not very much unlike your own -- should save me from these suspicions . 
My vanity , indeed , is somewhat touched , Clarence , that my smooth visage should suffer such cruel misrepresentation . '' 
And as the speaker concluded this rhapsody , his eye suddenly wandered from that of the person he addressed , and rested upon the belt which encircled his own body -- a belt of plain black leather , secured by an ordinary iron buckle , painted of the same colour , and freshly varnished . 
An uneasy upward glance , at this moment , encountered that of his kinsman , whose eyes had evidently followed his own , to the examination of the same object . 
The keen eyes of Clarence , now doubly sharpened by suspicion , seemed disposed to pierce into the very soul of Edward Conway . 
`` But this , Clarence , '' said he , turning to his kinsman , `` this has nothing to do with what I was saying of myself . 
It does not impair the assurance which I made you -- '' Clarence Conway , who had been closely examining the articles , without heeding his brother , demanded of the woodman why he had not shown them to him before . 
The soul of Clarence was full of a new source of disquiet and dread ; while the apprehensions of Edward Conway , if entirely of another sort , were yet too active to permit of his very ready speech . 
demanded Clarence impatiently . 
`` Well , Clarence , you may ` pshaw ' it to me as much as you please , only I 'm mighty sartain , in your secret heart , you do n't ` pshaw ' it to yourself . 
I would n't ride far , Clarence ; and I 'd ride fast ; and I 'd git back as soon as horseflesh could bring me . 
Sorrel is in full blood now , and he 'll show the cleanest heels in the country , at the civillest axing of the spur . '' 
I understand you -- '' The rest was lost to the ears of Clarence Conway , in the rush of his own and the steed of his companion . 
As for you , Ned Conway , '' he continued in brief soliloquy , and with a lifted finger , `` you may draw your skirts over the eyes of Clarence , but it 'll take thicker skirts than yourn to blind Jack Bannister . 
Edward Conway felt it to be so in his own case , and readily concluded that Clarence would esteem it so . 
The few reflections , therefore , which time permitted him to make , were neither pleasant nor satisfactory ; and when he galloped off with his younger brother , he had half a doubt whether the latter did not meditate his sudden execution , as soon as they should be fairly concealed from the sight of the woodman . 
He knew enough of the character of Clarence to know that he would as soon destroy his own brother for treachery -- nay , sooner -- than an open enemy ; and the silence which he maintained , the stern , rigid expression of his features , and the reckless speed at which he seemed resolved to ride , contributed in no small degree to increase his apprehensions . 
For a brief space that ready wit and prompt subterfuge , which had enabled him hitherto to play a various and very complicated game in life , with singular adroitness and success , seemed about to fail . 
He felt his elasticity lessening fast -- his confidence in himself declining ; his brain was heavy , his tongue flattened and thick . 
He was weaponless . 
There was no chance of success in any conflict , unless from his enemy 's generosity ; and upon that , in those days , the partisan who fought on either side made but few calculations . 
He little knew how strong and active were those doubts -- the children of his wish -- which were working in the bosom of Clarence Conway in his behalf . 
At length the latter drew up his steed , and exhibited a wish to stop . 
`` You do not repent of it , Clarence ? '' 
`` I am at your mercy , Clarence Conway . 
exclaimed Clarence , chokingly . 
The elder of the kinsmen , at this appeal , displayed more emotion , real or affected , than he had shown at any time during the interview . 
He strode to and fro among the tall trees , with hands clasped behind , eyes cast down upon the earth , and brows contracted . 
A single quiver might have been seen at moments among the muscles of his mouth . 
He extended his hand to Clarence as he spoke . 
`` Let us part , Clarence . 
It would not be easy for me , Clarence , to forget any thing which has taken place in the last ten days of my life . '' 
`` Understand me , Clarence , as speaking nothing which should not become a man and your brother . '' 
That it was so , was reason sufficient why Clarence Conway should hesitate to urge a matter which might only terminate in bringing their quarrel to a crisis . 
`` The sooner we separate the better , '' was his only answer . 
The youth grasped the now reluctant hand of the elder Conway ; wrung it with a soldier 's grasp -- a pressure in which mingled feelings , all warm , all conflicting , had equal utterance ; -- then , springing upon his steed , he dashed rapidly into the forest , and in a few moments was hidden from sight in its thickest mazes . 
Yes , Clarence Conway , I will remember . 
He had extricated his horse from the cover which concealed him while he was giving utterance to this soliloquy . 
The noble animal neighed and whinnied after his late companion . 
The plaintive appeal of the beast seemed to irritate his rider , whose passions , subjected to a restraint which he had found no less necessary than painful , were now seeking that vent which they had been denied for an unusual season ; and under their influence he struck the animal over the nostril with the heavy hand of that hate which he fain would have bestowed upon his master . 
he muttered , as he leaped upon the saddle . 
`` I need no entreaty to this end , Clarence Conway . 
And , as he spoke , the sheeted tempest driving in his face the while -- he shook his threatening hand in the direction which his brother had taken . 
Turning his horse 's head upon an opposite course , he then proceeded , though at a less rapid rate , to find that shelter , which he now , for the first time , began to consider necessary . 
It may have been ten minutes after their separation , when he heard a sound at a little distance which aroused his flagging attention . 
`` That whistle , '' said he to himself , `` is very like our own . 
Speaking thus he replied in a sound similar to that which he heard , and an immediate response , almost at his elbow , satisfied him of the truth of his first impression . 
He drew up his steed , repeated the whistle , and was now answered by the swift tread of approaching horses . 
If you are diligent you will overtake one of our worst enemies : -- a friend of Butler -- a rebel -- no less than Colonel Conway . 
Pursue and catch him . 
You can not fail to overtake him if you try for it . 
Take him prisoner , alive , if you can ; -- I particularly wish that you should have him alive -- but , remember , take him at every hazard . 
Living or dead , he must be ours . '' 
`` If you succeed in taking him , bring him on to Muggs ' . 
In an instant they were on their way , pursuing the track which Clarence had taken for the Wateree . 
And , with these words , striking with his open palm upon the neck of his horse , he drove him forward to Muggs ' . 
was the fierce exclamation of Morton , spoken with instant promptness , as he hurled the pistol with which Clarence Conway had provided him , full in the face of the insubordinate . 
The capture of Clarence Conway was not such an easy matter . 
It will be remembered that when he separated from his brother , under the influence of feelings of a most exciting nature , he had given his horse a free spur , and dashed forward at full speed to regain his place of safety in the swamp . 
The rapidity of his start , had he continued at the same pace , would have secured him against pursuit . 
But , as his blood cooled , and his reflective mood assumed the ascendancy , his speed was necessarily lessened ; and by the time that his treacherous kinsman was enabled to send the troopers in pursuit , his horse was suffered quietly to pick his way forward , in a gait most suited to his own sense of comfort . 
The pursuers gained rapidly upon him , and owing to the noise occasioned by the rain pattering heavily upon the leaves about him , he did not hear the sound of their horses ' feet , until escape became difficult . 
At the same moment he discovered a horseman on either hand , while two others came close upon him in the rear . 
Their habits , the intentness of their pursuit , at once convinced him that they were enemies ; and with just enough of the sense of danger to make him act decisively , the fearless partisan drew forth his pistol , cocked it without making any unnecessary display , and , at the same time , drove the rowel into the flanks of his steed . 
A keen eye sent forward upon the path which he was pursuing , enabled him to see that it was too closely covered with woods to allow him to continue much farther his present rate of flight , and , with characteristic boldness , he resolved to turn his course to the right , where the path was less covered with undergrowth , and on which his encounter would be with a single enemy only . 
The action , with such a temperament as that of Clarence Conway , was simultaneous with the thought ; and a few moments brought him upon the one opponent , while his sudden change of direction , served , for a brief space , to throw the others out . 
The moment he swerved from the track , Conway dashed after him with increased earnestness , taking particular care to keep himself , meanwhile , between the individual and his friends . 
In this way he seemed to drive the other before him , and , as his own speed was necessarily increased under these circumstances , the man thus insulated became anxious about his position , and desirous to return . 
In both respects the advantage was with Conway ; and he might have controlled every movement of his enemy , but for the proximity of those who were now pressing on behind him . 
They were approaching rapidly nigher , and the disparity of force in their favour was too considerable to leave him a single hope of a successful issue should he be forced to an actual encounter . 
He soon saw that he must drive the individual before him entirely out of his path , or be forced to stand at bay against an attack in which defence was hopeless . 
His resolve was instantaneous ; and , reasonably calculating against the probability of any pistol shot from either taking effect while under rapid flight , and through the misty rain then driving into their mutual faces , he resolved to run down his enemy by the sheer physical powers of his horse , in defiance of the latter 's weapon and without seeking to use his own . 
He braced himself up for this exertion , and timed his movement fortunately , at a moment when , a dense thicket presenting itself immediately in the way of the man before him , rendered necessary a change in the direction of his flight . 
His pistol was emptied , but in vain ; and the rush of Conway 's horse immediately followed . 
Secure of safety , Conway dashed onwards , without an apprehension , and in a moment after had shared the fortune of him he had just overthrown . 
A sudden descent of one of the Wateree hills was immediately before him , and in the increasing dimness of the twilight , and under the rapidity of his flight , he did not observe that its declivity of yellow clay had been freshly washed into a gulley . 
His horse plunged forward upon the deceptive and miry surface , and lost his footing . 
A series of ineffectual plunges which he made to recover , brought him to the foot of the hill , where he lay half stunned and shivering . 
His girth had broken in the violent muscular efforts which he made to arrest his fall , and his rider , in spite of every exertion of skill and strength , was thrown forwards , and fell , though with little injury , upon the yellow clay below . 
He had barely time to recover his feet , but not his horse , when the pursuers were upon him . 
Resistance , under existing circumstances , would have been worse than useless ; and with feelings of mortification , much better imagined than described , he yielded himself , with the best possible grace , to the hands of his captors . 
Nothingcould exceed the surprise of Clarence Conway when , conducted by his captors into the house of Muggs , he beheld the condition of his kinsman . 
His ardent and unsuspicious nature at once reproached him with those doubts which he had entertained of the fidelity of the latter . 
He now wondered at himself for the ready credence which he had been disposed to yield , on grounds so slight and unsatisfactory as they then appeared to be , to the imputations against one so near to him by blood ; and with the natural rapidity of the generous nature , he forgot , in his regrets for his own supposed errors , those of which his brother had , as he well knew , most certainly been guilty . 
He forgot that it was not less a reproach against Edward Conway -- even if he was misrepresented as friendly to the cause of the invader -- that he had forborne to show that he was friendly to that of his country ; and , in that moment of generous forgetfulness , even the suspicious conduct of the fugitive in relation to his own affair of heart , passed from his memory . 
said Clarence , inquiringly . 
`` Clarence Conway , you perhaps deceive yourself with that notion . 
The generous nature of Clarence deeply felt these expressions . 
His wily kinsman well understood that nature , and deliberately practised upon it . 
He listened to the explanations and assurances of the former with the doggedness of one who feels that he has an advantage , and shows himself resolute to keep it . 
Still he was too much of a proficient in the knowledge of human nature to over-act the character . 
Such was the pang at this moment in the bosom of Clarence Conway . 
He renewed his efforts to soothe and to appease the resentments of his kinsman , with all the solicitude of truth . 
But let us say no more on this subject , Clarence . 
-- '' He paused . 
`` Nothing , perhaps ; -- but just now , Clarence , my thoughts and feelings are rather bitter than sweet , and may be supposed likely to impart something of their taste to what I say . 
Do you understand me now , Clarence Conway ? 
Clarence was , indeed , silent . 
Painful was the conviction that made him so . 
He felt the truth of what his brother had spoken . 
He felt that there was a gulf between them ; and he felt also that the look and manner of his kinsman , while he spoke the name , together with the tone of voice in which it was spoken , had most unaccountably , and most immeasurably , enlarged that gulf . 
Clarence felt at this moment that , though his suspicions of Edward Conway , as the chief of the Black Riders , were all dissipated by the position in which he found him , yet he loved him still less than before . 
At length Clarence broke the silence . 
His manner was subdued , but the soul within him was strengthened . 
The course of his kinsman had not continued to its close as judicious as it seemed at the beginning . 
It had been a wiser policy had he forborne even the intimation of reproach -- had he assumed an aspect of greater kindness and love towards his companion in misfortune , and striven , by a studious display of cheerfulness , to prove to his brother that he was only apprehensive lest the situation in which the latter had found him might tend too much to his own self-reproach . 
The reference to Flora Middleton placed Clarence on his guard . 
It reminded him that there were more grounds of difference between himself and kinsman than he had been just before prepared to remember . 
Clarence meanwhile proceeded as follows , with a grave severity of manner , which proved that , on one subject at least , he could neither be abused nor trifled with . 
`` Am I to tell you now , for the first time , Clarence Conway , that I love Flora Middleton ? '' 
`` Be it so , then , Edward Conway , '' replied Clarence , with a strong effort at composure . 
`` But , '' he added , `` if I mistake not , there was an understanding between us on this subject . 
You -- '' `` Ay , ay , to pacify you -- to avoid strife with my father 's son , Clarence Conway , I made some foolish promise to subdue my own feelings out of respect to yours -- some weak and unmanly concessions ! '' 
`` Why , the truth is , Clarence , it is something ridiculous for either of us to be talking of our future purposes , while in such a predicament as this . 
`` Your superior claims , Clarence , '' replied the other , `` consist , simply , if I understand the matter rightly , in your having seen the lady before myself , and by so many months only having the start of me in our mutual admiration of her charms . 
A warm flush passed over the before pale features of Clarence Conway . 
His lip was agitated , and its quivering only suppressed by a strong effort . 
he exclaimed -- `` we understand each other . '' 
`` But let me know , Clarence . 
He renewed the sentence , cautiously omitting the offensive member : `` Something of my course , Clarence , will surely depend on my knowledge of your claims . 
Clarence Conway was the curious witness to a long examination to which his fellow prisoner was subjected , the object of which seemed to be to establish the fact that Edward Conway was himself a most inveterate rebel . 
`` You do not deny that your name is Conway . '' 
`` Colonel Conway , of Sumter 's Brigade ? '' 
`` Iam Colonel Conway , of Sumter 's Brigade , '' said Clarence , interposing . 
`` Shumway , '' he exclaimed , turning to a subordinate , `` why the d -- l were these d -- d rebels put together ? 
He should know this fellow Conway . '' 
`` Do you still deny that you are Colonel Conway , of Sumter 's brigade ? 
My name is Conway , as I declared to you before ; but I am not of Sumter 's brigade , nor of any brigade . 
`` If the commission of Governor Rutledge of South Carolina will be any evidence to show who is , and who is not , Colonel Conway , of Sumter 's brigade , '' was the second interruption of Clarence , `` that commission will be found in my pocket . '' 
But can you guess , my dear fellow , '' turning to Clarence , `` you , who are so anxious to prove yourself a colonel -- can you guess what it will cost you to establish the fact ? 
`` If you think to terrify me by such threats , you are mistaken in your man , '' replied Clarence , with features which amply denoted the wholesale scorn within his bosom , `` and if you dare to carry your threats into execution , you as little know the men of Sumter 's brigade , the meanest of whom would promptly peril his own life to exact fearful and bloody retribution for the deed . 
I am Colonel Conway , and , dog of a tory , I defy you . 
The face of the outlaw blackened : -- Clarence rose to his feet . 
Though shocked at the seeming certainty of a deed which he had not been willing to believe they would venture to execute , he yet preserved the fearless aspect which he had heretofore shown . 
His lips still uttered the language of defiance . 
He made no concessions , he asked for no delay -- he simply denounced against them the vengeance of his command , and that of his reckless commander , whose fiery energy of soul and rapidity of execution they well knew . 
His language tended still farther to exasperate the person who acted in the capacity of the outlaw chief . 
Furiously , as if to second the subordinates in the awful duty in which they seemed to him to linger , he grasped the throat of Clarence Conway with his own hands , and proceeded to drag him forward . 
He did not see the significant gesture of head , glance of eye and impatient movement of Edward Conway , while he thundered out his commands and curses . 
His blood and brains bespattered the breast of Clarence Conway , whom his falling body also bore to the floor of the apartment . 
In that shout Clarence could not doubt that he heard the manly voice of the faithful Jack Bannister , and the deed spoke for itself . 
The fate of Clarence Conway was suspended for a while . 
It is true that the fierce command , so familiarly addressed to the robbers by their prisoner , did seem strange enough to the unsuspecting Clarence ; but even this was natural enough . 
Besides , the clamour , the uproar , the confusion and hubbub of the scene , not to speak of those conflicting emotions under which Clarence Conway suffered at a moment so full , seemingly , of the last peril to himself , served to distract his senses and impair the just powers of judgment in his mind . 
He felt that Edward Conway had acted unexpectedly -- had shown a singular activity which did not seem exactly called for , and was scarce due to those in whose behalf it was displayed ; but , making due allowance for the different effects of fright and excitement upon different temperaments , he did not regard his conduct as strange or unnatural , however unnecessary it might seem , and , perhaps , impolitic . 
Clarence Conway was his rival , was his enemy , and was in his power . 
He had already felt the humiliation resulting from the unbecoming equivocal position in which he stood to him . 
He had bowed to him , when he better felt the mood to battle with him . 
He had displayed the smile of conciliation , when , in his heart , he felt all the bitterness of dislike and hate . 
Why should he longer seek to maintain appearances with one from whom he now had seemingly nothing to fear ? 
Why not , at once , by a bold avowal of his course , justify , in the language of defiance , the hostile position in which he stood equally to his country and his kinsman ? 
Such a course would amply account for the past ; and , in those arguments by which the loyalists of that day found a sanction for their adherence to the mother country , he might well claim all the rights of position due to one , whatever may be his errors of judgment , who draws his sword in behalf of his principles . 
Clarence Conway was still his kinsman , and more than that , he owed him a life . 
`` Besides , '' was the language of his second thoughts , `` his myrmidons even now may be around us . 
That the followers of Clarence Conway were not far off was the very natural reflection of every mind , after the sudden and fearful death of him who had been the chosen representative of their chief . 
The game which he proposed in prosecuting his purposes equally with Flora Middleton and his brother , was best promoted by his present forbearance -- by his still continuing , at least while in the presence of Clarence Conway , to preserve his doubtful position as a prisoner . 
He sank back , accordingly , upon the bulk from which he had arisen in the first moment of the alarm . 
His efforts were addressed to the task of composing his features , and assuming the subdued aspect of one who stands in equal doubt and apprehension of his fate . 
Clarence , in the mean time , had also resumed his seat . 
He no longer looked towards his companion . 
His heart was filled with apprehension , in which his own fate had no concern . 
He trembled now for the life of the faithful woodman -- for he did not doubt that it was he -- who had tracked his footsteps , and so promptly interfered at the hazard of his own life , to exact that of his enemy . 
He could hear the distant clamours of the hunt without . 
He was roused from an attention at once painful and unavoidable by the accents of his kinsman . 
`` Clarence ! '' 
`` So I thought , '' replied Clarence , `` for you actually shouted to the wretches to pursue the murderer , and he , too , that noble fellow , Jack Bannister . 
`` Do you think it was he , Clarence ? '' 
I am sure of his halloo . '' 
`` If they catch him ! 
`` The jest is a bald one that 's born under the gallows , '' replied Clarence gravely , with a Whig proverb . 
`` If I stand in such peril , '' replied Clarence Conway , `` holding as I do a commission from the state authorities , I can not understand how it can be that you should escape , having , unhappily , no such sanction , and being so much more in danger from their suspicion . 
`` I am afraid , Clarence , that your commission will hardly prevail upon them to make any difference in their treatment of us . '' 
`` Do you really wish it , Clarence ? '' 
would you do this , Clarence Conway ? 
`` Clarence , '' he exclaimed , `` you are a very generous fellow . 
Have you forgotten that I am here , under these very bonds , charged with no worse offence than that of being Colonel Clarence Conway . 
`` Say nothing rashly , Clarence . 
was the remark of his companion , who added -- `` Perhaps , Clarence , our only hope of safety depends upon their having their victim . '' 
Led on by one of the party , by whom Clarence had been originally made prisoner , they rushed upon him . 
`` Scoundrels , give me but room , and I will follow you , '' cried Clarence with a scorn as lofty as he would have shown in a station of the utmost security , and with tones as firm as he ever uttered at the head of his regiment . 
They dragged him on until , at length , he stood in the blood , and just above the body , of the murdered man . 
But the scornful demand of Clarence , with which he concluded his contumelious speech , brought a new party into the field . 
This was no other than his kinsman . 
He had been a looker on for some moments -- not long -- for the whole scene took far less time for performance than it now takes for narration . 
He had watched its progress with new and rather strange emotions . 
At one moment , the selfish desires of his heart grew predominant . 
He thought of Flora Middleton , and he sank back and closed his eyes upon the objects around him , saying , in his secret heart -- `` Let them go on -- let him perish -- why should I preserve from destruction the only obstacle to my desires . '' 
At the next moment , a better spirit prevailed within him . 
He remembered the services of Clarence to himself . 
-- He owed to him his life ; and but now , had not the generous youth tendered him for his extrication and sole use that document , which he fancied would be all powerful in securing his own safety . 
Colonel Conway , you demanded to look upon the chief of the Black Riders . 
He is before you . 
He answers , at last , to your defiance . '' 
`` And him , thus known , I doubly scorn , defy and spit upon ! '' 
The instant was full of doubt and peril , and Clarence Conway forgot for the time his own danger in the contemplation of the issue . 
In silence the two led Clarence Conway out of the house . 
He followed them in silence . 
He looked once toward his kinsman , but Edward Morton was not yet prepared to meet his glance . 
Clarence was conducted to an out-house -- a simple , but close , block-house , of squared logs -- small , and of little use as a prison , except as it was secluded from the highway . 
Into this he was thrust headlong , and the door fastened from without upon him . 
There let us leave him for a while , to meditate upon the strange and sorrowful scene which he had witnessed , and of which he had been a part . 
His reflections were not of a nature to permit him to pay much attention to the accommodations which were afforded him . 
He found himself in utter darkness , and the inability to employ his eyes led necessarily to the greater exercise of his thoughts . 
He threw himself upon the floor of his dungeon , which was covered with pine straw , and brooded over the prospects of that life which had just passed through an ordeal so narrow . 
Let us now return to his kinsman . 
He and Clarence gave me shelter in the swamp when I was chased by Butler 's men , and when that skulking scoundrel , Stockton , left me to perish . 
Clarence rode on with me , and left Supple Jack to return to the swamp , where they have a first rate hiding place . 
As for hiding Clarence Conway here , now , or for a day more , that 's unpossible . 
It 's cl ` ar he 's got his friends on the track , one , or mout-be , a hundred ; and they can soon muster enough to work him out of the timbers , if it 's only by gnawing through with their teeth . 
Send him under guard to Camden ? 
The only entrance to this rude fabric was closely watched by the two persons to whom Clarence was given in charge . 
The lantern which he bore , and which he set down in one corner of the apartment , enabled Clarence to distinguish his brother at a glance ; but the youth neither stirred nor spoke as he beheld him . 
His mind , in the brief interval which had elapsed after their violent separation in the tavern , had been busily engaged in arriving at that stage of stern resignation , which left him comparatively indifferent to any evils which might then occur . 
Unable to form any judgment upon the course of his brother 's future conduct , he was not prepared to say how far he might be willing to go , and how soon , in permitting to his sanguinary troop the indulgence of their bloody will . 
Wisely , then , he had steeled his mind against the worst , resolved , if he had to suffer death in an obscurity so little desired by the youthful and ambitious heart , to meet its bitter edge with as calm a countenance as he should like to display under a similar trial , in the presence of a thousand spectators . 
His face might have been seen to vary in colour and expression as his eye turned upon the spot where Clarence was sitting . 
The moral strength was wanting in his case which sustained the latter . 
The consciousness of guilt enfeebled , in some degree , a spirit , whose intense selfishness alone , were he unpossessed of any other more decisive characteristics , must have been the source of no small amount of firmness and courage . 
As if ashamed , however , of his feebleness , and determined to brave the virtue which he still felt himself compelled to respect , he opened the conference by a remark , the tone and tenor of which were intended to seem exulting and triumphant . 
`` So , Colonel Conway , you find your wisdom has been at fault . 
The youth looked up and fixed his eye steadily on that of the speaker . 
`` Edward Conway , '' he replied , after a brief delay , `` you do not deceive me by that tone -- nay , you do not deceive yourself . 
`` I will prove to you , in due season , that I am no coward , Clarence Conway , '' replied the other , in hoarse and nearly undistinguishable accents ; `` you , at least , are seeking to convince me that you are none , in thus bearding the lion in his den . '' 
With a strong effort the outlaw kept down his temper , while he replied : `` I will not suffer you to provoke me , Clarence Conway . 
You have your wish , Clarence Conway . '' 
`` You are so far free , Clarence Conway ! 
It would now be easy for you to take the life of him whom you so bitterly denounce . 
`` No , Clarence -- for your own sake and safety , I would not fight you now . '' 
demanded Clarence . 
This done , Clarence Conway , I shall feel myself acquitted of all those burdensome obligations which , hitherto , have made me suppress the natural feelings of my heart -- the objects of my mind -- the purposes of interest , ambition , love -- all of which depend upon your life . 
Clarence Conway heard him with patience , but with mixed feelings . 
He was about to reply in a similar spirit , but a nobler sentiment arose in his bosom with the momentary pause which he allowed himself for thought . 
He kept down the gushing blood which was about to pour itself forth in defiance from his labouring breast , and spoke as follows : `` I will not say , Edward Conway , what I might safely utter , of my own indifference to your threats . 
The keen eye of Clarence flashed scornfully as he listened to this sneer . 
He bit his lip to restrain his emotion , and once more replied , but it was no longer in the language of forbearance . 
`` Enough , enough , Colonel Conway . 
I repeat , therefore , that I loathe you from my soul , Clarence Conway , and when I have fairly acquitted myself of the debt I owe you , by sending you to your swamp in safety , I shall then seek , by every effort , to overcome and destroy you . 
`` I hear you , '' replied Clarence Conway , with a tone calm , composed , even ; and with looks unmoved , and even sternly contemptuous . 
`` We are pledged , Clarence Conway , '' said the outlaw ; `` before daylight I will conduct you from this place . 
Long and earnest that night was the prayer of Clarence , that he might be spared from that strife which , so far , threatened to be inevitable . 
Yet he made not this prayer because of any affection -- which , under the circumstances , must have been equally misplaced and unnatural -- which he bore his kinsman . 
The sweet dependencies of mutual appeal and confidence were unknown to , and unexercised by , either ; and , so far as their sympathies were interested , Clarence , like the other , would have felt no more scruple at encountering Edward Conway in battle , than in meeting any indifferent person who was equally his own and the foe of his country . 
The noble animal which Clarence rode was restored to him at his departure . 
`` Colonel Conway , your path is free , and you are also ! 
The eye of Clarence followed him with an expression of stern defiance , not unmingled with sadness , while he replied : `` I will not fail thee , be that meeting when it may . 
And slowly , and solemnly , while the youth spoke , did he wave his open palm toward the path taken by his brother . 
But he wasted no more time in soliloquy . 
Prudence prompted him , without delay , to avail himself of the freedom which had been given him . 
He knew not what pursuers might be upon his path . 
He was not satisfied that his kinsman would still be true , without evasion , to the assurances which he had given in a mood of unwonted magnanimity . 
He plied his spurs freely , therefore , and his steed acknowledged the governing impulse . 
Another moment found him pressing toward the swamp . 
But he had scarcely commenced his progress , when a well-known voice reached his ears , in a friendly summons to stop ; while , on one hand , emerging from the forest came riding out his faithful friend and adherent , Jack Bannister . 
It was you , then , as I thought , whose rifle -- '' `` Worked that chap 's buttonhole , '' was the answer of the woodman , with a chuckle , as , shaking the long , ungainly , but unerring instrument , aloft , with one hand , he grasped with the other the extended hand of his superior . 
If I had , Clarence , I do n't think the drop would ha ' been on the button of him that tumbled . 
I suppose , Clarence , you 're pretty nigh certain now that he 's no ra'al , proper kin of your ` n , for you to be keeping him out of harm 's way , and getting into it yourself on account of him . '' 
`` And yet , he saved me from those ruffians , Jack . '' 
Clarence , and what of that ? 
Wa ` nt it him that got you into their gripe ; and would n't he been worse than any sarpent that ever carried p ` ison at the root of his tongue , if he had n't ha ' saved you , after what you 'd done for him jest afore ? 
Do n't talk to me of his saving you , Clarence -- do n't say any thing more in his favour , or I 'll stuff my ears with moss and pine gum whenever you open your lips to speak . 
You 've stood by him long enough , and done all that natur ' called for , and more than was nateral . 
It 's cl ` ar to you now , Clarence , that you knows all about him . '' 
He is the leader of the Black Riders . 
He declared it with his own lips . '' 
`` When he could ` nt help it no longer . 
Why , Clarence , he 't was that sent them fellows a ` ter you that tuk you . 
But , though you know that he 's a tory and a Black Rider , there 's a thousand villanies he 's been doing ever since we played together that you know nothing about ; and I 'm ` minded of one in preticular that happened when you was at college in England , by the coming of old Jacob Clarkson ! 
I had a liking for the gal -- I own it , Clarence -- and if so be things had n't turned out as they did , well , I mought ha ' married her . 
Besides , old Jake was too rough for the poor child , who , you know , Clarence , was a ` most to be pitied ; for it 's mighty few women in this world that can say no when they 're axed for favours by a man they have a liking for . 
We were all turned out on the sarch , and it was my misfortune , Clarence , to be the first to find out what had become of her . 
`` Did n't find her , Clarence ; but found out the miserable end she made of herself . 
`` 'T was a bad business , Clarence ; and I did n't feel the smallest part of it . 
There was a-many things long before that , that made me suspicion him ; but after that , Clarence , I always felt , when I was near him , as if I saw a great snake , a viper , or a mockasin , and looked all round for a chunk to mash its head with . '' 
But , Clarence , do n't you say nothing to him about this business . 
It 's a sore truth for him still , though the matter is so long gone by . 
But every thing helps to keep it alive in his heart . 
His old woman 's gone to her long home ; and though she had a rough tongue and a long one , yet he was used to her ; and when he lost little Mary , and then her , and the tories burnt his house , it sort-a cut him up , root and branch , and made him fretful and vexatious . 
But he 'll fight , Clarence , like old Blazes -- there 's no mistake in him . '' 
A brief grasp of the hand , and a kind word , terminated the interview between the youthful partisan and his trusty follower . 
The latter dashed abruptly into the woods bordering the swamp , while the former , taking an upper route , pursued the windings of the river , till he reached the point he aimed at . 
He took care to separate the suspected officers , in such a way as to deprive them , for the present , of all chance of communion ; -- then , taking the advance , he led them forward , and was soon found pursuing the track lately taken by Clarence Conway . 
Any body that speaks friendly , or kind , of Clarence Conway , I 'll help him if I can . 
The arguments of the woodman were plausible enough , and Clarence Conway felt them in their fullest force . 
But he had his doubts about the course alleged to be taken by his kinsman , and a feeling equally selfish , perhaps , but more noble intrinsically , made him fancy that his chief interest lay above . 
He was not insensible to his mother 's and his own probable loss , should the design of Edward Conway really be such as Bannister suggested , but a greater stake , in his estimation , lay in the person of the fair Flora Middleton ; and he could not bring himself to believe , valuing her charms as he did himself , that his kinsman would forego such game for the more mercenary objects involved in the other adventure . 
exclaimed the outlaw fiercely , `` and look you , girl , have I not told you a thousand times that I wish not to be called Conway . 
Call me Morton , Cunningham , John Stuart , or the devil -- or any of the hundred names by which my enemies distinguish me and denominate my deeds ; but call me not by the name of Conway . 
Who could it be but Clarence Conway -- that kinsman who seemed born to be his bane -- to whom he ascribed the loss of property and position ; beneath whose superior virtue his spirit quailed , and to a baseless jealousy of whom might in truth be ascribed much of the unhappy and dishonourable practices which , so far , he had almost fruitlessly pursued . 
His was the jealousy rather of hate than love . 
The grandmother was kind and good-natured as ever ; but Clarence saw or fancied that he saw in Flora an air of haughty indifference , which her eyes sometimes exchanged for one of a yet more decided feeling . 
The eyes of Clarence looked more than once the inquiry which he knew not how to make in any other way ; but only once did the dark-blue orbs of Flora encounter his for a prolonged moment ; and then he thought that their expression was again changed to one of sorrow . 
After that , she resolutely evaded his glance ; and the time , for an hour after his arrival , was passed by him in a state of doubtful solicitude , and by Flora , as he could not help thinking , under a feeling of restraint and excessive circumspection , which was new to both of them , and painful in the last degree to him . 
All the freedoms of their old intercourse had given way to cold , stiff formalities ; and , in place of `` Flora '' from his lips , and `` Clarence '' from hers , the forms of address became as rigid and ceremonious between them as the most punctilious Puritan of that day could insist upon . 
She was a noble specimen of the Anglo Saxon . 
Glowing with health , but softened by grace ; warmed by love , yet not obtrusive in her earnestness . 
Of a temper quick , energetic , and decisive ; yet too proud to deal in the language either of anger or complaint -- too delicate in her own sensibilities to outrage , by impudent haste , the feelings of others . 
Living at a time , and in a region , where life was full of serious purposes and continual trials , she was superior to those small tastes and petty employments , which dishonour too greatly the understandings of her sex , and diminish dreadfully its importance to man and to society . 
Her thoughts were neither too nice for , nor too superior to , the business and the events of the time . 
She belonged to that wonderful race of Carolina women , above all praise , who could minister , with equal propriety and success , at those altars for which their fathers , and husbands , and brothers fought -- who could tend the wounded , nurse the sick , cheer the dispirited , arm the warrior for the field -- nay , sometimes lift spear and sword in sudden emergency , and make desperate battle , in compliance with the requisitions of the soul , nerved by tenderness , and love , and serious duty , to the most masculine exertions -- utterly forgetful of those effeminacies of the sex , which are partly due to organization and partly to the arbitrary , and , too frequently , injurious laws of society . 
That she showed none of this animation -- this humour -- on the present occasion , was one of the chief sources of Clarence Conway 's disquietude . 
Restraint was so remarkable in the case of one , whose frank , voluntary spirit was always ready with its music , that he conjured up the most contradictory notions to account for it . 
he asked ; `` do you feel unwell ? '' 
was one of his inquiries , as his disquiet took a new form of apprehension . 
what makes you fancy such a thing , Colonel Conway ? 
`` No ; but you seem dull -- not in spirits -- something must have happened -- '' `` Perhaps something has happened , cousin Clarence : '' -- this was the first phrase of kindness which reminded Clarence of old times . 
He fancied she began to soften . 
`` Cousin Clarence , '' was one of the familiar forms of address which had been adopted by the maiden some years previously , when , mere children , they first grew intimate together . 
Such an opinion , Clarence , would annoy many a fair damsel of my acquaintance . 
`` Excuse me -- not to-night , Clarence ; '' and her present reply was made with recovered rigidity of manner . 
do you , Clarence ; -- and there , at present , lies the whole brunt of the war . 
I should like to play for you , Clarence -- but I can not . 
I can not -- I will not play for you to-night -- nay , do not interrupt me , Clarence -- my harpsichord is in tune -- and I am not seeking for apologies . 
I like frankness , and if Clarence be what he always seemed , and we always believed him -- he will like it too . 
The maiden looked to her grandmother , but did not answer ; and Conway , though greatly excited , could readily perceive that she laboured under feelings which evidently tried her confidence in herself , and tested all her strength . 
A deep suffusion overspread her cheek , the meaning of which , under other circumstances , he might have construed favourably to his suit . 
So indeed did it seem to be understood by the maiden ; for she instantly recovered herself and continued : -- `` Give me your arm , Clarence , and I will explain all . 
I am afraid I have overtasked myself , but the orphan , Clarence Conway , must assert her own rights and character , though it may somewhat impair , in the estimation of the stronger sex , her pretensions to feminine delicacy . '' 
Clarence paused as they emerged into the sweet natural shadows of the spot . 
She answered with a sigh : -- `` Can war permit of this romance , Clarence ? 
Can it be possible that he who thinks of blood , and battle , and the near neighbourhood of the foe , has yet a thought to spare to ladies ' bowers , vines , blossoms and such woman fancies as make up the pleasures of her listless moods , and furnish , in these times , her only , and , perhaps , her best society . '' 
`` No more , Clarence ; and you remind me of the explanation which I have to make -- and to demand . 
She seated herself upon a bench beneath the vines , and motioned him to a place beside her . 
After a brief delay -- a tribute to the weakness of her sex -- she began as follows : -- `` Clarence Conway , before I saw you to-night , I had resolved henceforward to regard and treat you as the most indifferent stranger that ever challenged the hospitality of my father 's dwelling . 
-- to likeyou , Clarence , that I feel unwilling to put you off as a stranger , without making such explanations as will justify me in this course . 
Briefly then , Clarence Conway , some things have reached my ears , as if spoken by you , and of me -- such things as a vain young man might be supposed likely to say of any young woman who has suffered him to think that she had thoughts for nothing beside himself . 
I will not tell you , Clarence , that I believed all this . 
Now , if you know any thing of a maiden 's heart , Clarence Conway -- nay , if you knew any thing of mine , you would readily imagine what I must have felt on hearing this . 
repeated the youth , with stern emphasis , as he laid his hand upon her arm , and looked her in the face with such an expression as falsehood never yet could assume . 
`` Be not angry , Clarence , '' she said gently -- `` remember what society exacts of my sex -- remember how much of our position depends upon the breath of man ; -- our tyrant too often -- always our sole judge while we dwell upon the earth . 
I tell you , Clarence Conway , that a woman of my frank nature , is compelled to be resentful , if she would subdue the slanderer to silence . 
-- '' He paused ! 
He was reminded at this moment of the late conference which he had with Edward Conway . 
In that conference he had certainly asserted a superior right , over his kinsman , to approach Flora Middleton with love . 
This assertion , however , only contemplated the relative position of the brothers , one to the other ; and was accompanied by an express disclaimer , on the part of Clarence , of any influence over the maiden herself ; but the recollection of this circumstance increased the difficulties in the way of an explanation , unless by the adoption of a single and very simple -- but a very direct course -- which is always apt to be regarded as one of great peril by all youthful lovers . 
Clarence Conway was one of those men who know only the Alexandrine method of getting through the knots of the moral Gordius . 
`` I can not tell you , Clarence . '' 
-- For a very simple reason ; -- I would not have you fight him , Clarence . 
None could be so base but the person whom you know as Edward Conway , but whom I know -- '' He paused -- he could not make the revelation . 
Know , then , that , to him -- to Edward Conway -- long ago , did I declare what I once already presumed to declare to you -- that I loved you -- '' `` Let me not hear you , Clarence , '' said the maiden timidly , rising as she spoke . 
But , he took her hand , and with a gentle pressure restored her to her seat beside him . 
Before he saw you , he knew that I loved you , and was the profligate confederate of my unsuspecting affections . 
He betrayed them . 
He sought you thenceforward with love himself . 
He poured this cursed falsehood into your ears , I have reason to think , but ten days ago . 
Within the same space of time I have saved his life . 
To him , only , have I spoken of you in terms liable to misrepresentation . 
I did not speak of having claims upon you , Flora , but upon him ; -- I charged him with treachery to my trust , though I did not then dream that he had been the doubly-dyed traitor that I have since found him . '' 
`` Let us return to the parlour , Clarence . '' 
`` Let me confess , also , Clarence : -- But three days before I received your letter , I was told of this . '' 
Has the reptile been so long at his web ? '' 
exclaimed the youth -- `` But I will crush him in it yet . '' 
Clarence Conway , beware of what you say . 
The tremors of the soft white hand which he grasped within his own assured the lover of the emotion in her breast . 
But , Clarence , I will not answer you to-night -- not now -- not here ! '' 
Clarence Conway was not the man to become subdued by `` amaryllis in the shade , '' nor meshed , fly-like , in the `` tangles of any Nra 's hair . '' 
A new mood possessed him with the communication of his faithful scout , who , by the way , also performed the duties of his lieutenant . 
Clarence promised him , and the excellent fellow disappeared , glad to serve the person whom he most affectionately loved . 
Clarence then proceeded to the apartment in which the ladies were sitting ; and suffering under the natural excitement produced by intelligence , always so startling in those days , as the approach of a British army . 
`` Spare me , Clarence -- not now . '' 
`` Ah , Clarence , urge me not ! 
he exclaimed with bright eyes and a bounding spirit . 
-- God be with you , and his angels watch over you , as fondly , as faithfully , and with more ability to serve you , than your own Clarence . 
Hastily seizing her hand , he carried it to his lips with a fervent pressure ; then , elastic with new emotions of delight , that made him heedless and thoughtless of the danger , he hurried downwards into the court-yard below . 
The scouts had gone , the sentinels withdrawn ; and , with a single glance up to the apartment where he had left the lady of his love , the youthful partisan took his way after his lieutenant . 
Let us only follow him so far as to look after other agents in our narrative , who lie upon his route , and whom we may no longer leave unnoticed . 
But his course was bounded by the military restraints which the timely prudence of Conway , and the watchfulness of Bannister , had set around the mansion . 
The person approaching was no other than Clarence Conway . 
He had just parted , as we have seen , with Flora Middleton . 
Her last words were still sounding in his ears like some sweet , melancholy music which the language of one heart delivers , in love , for the consolation of another . 
The last pressure of her hand seemed still to make itself felt from his own , upward , to his heart , with a sensation which carried a thrill of joy to its deepest recesses . 
With the bugle of the enemy sounding on the track behind him , he had then no thought , no feeling for the enemy -- and , certainly , no fear . 
Foes , at that moment , if not forgotten , awakened no emotion in his bosom which a smile of indifference upon his lips did not sufficiently express . 
From musings , the dreamy languor of which may be readily imagined , he was awakened by the sudden glimpse he had caught of his kinsman 's person . 
The mere human outline was all that he beheld , and this for an instant only . 
At first , he was disposed to fancy that it was one of his own dragoons , all of whom had gone forward in that direction , and one of whom might have been left in the hurry of his comrades , or possibly detached on some special service . 
The tones of his brother 's voice arrested the outlaw -- that voice awakened all his rage and hate , while reminding him of his gage of battle ; and when he remembered that Clarence Conway had but that instant left the presence of the woman whom he sought , and whom he had not been permitted to see -- when he remembered that he was his hated rival , and when he thought that his lips might even then be warm with the fresh kisses of hers -- the feelings in his heart were no longer governable ! 
Uniting with that gnawing impatience , which had grown almost to a fever , and was a frenzy , under his late constraint , they determined him against all hazards ; and , darting from the vault , he answered the summons of his foe with a hiss of scorn and defiance . 
-- Clarence Conway -- wretch and rebel ! 
and as the outlaw sprang forward from the tomb with uplifted dagger , Clarence met him with his own . 
A moment 's collision only had ensued , when the latter struck his weapon into the mouth of his enemy , with a blow so forceful as to precipitate him back into the cavern which he had just left . 
Clarence sprang into the tomb after him , and there , in the deep darkness of the scene , among the mouldering coffins and dry bones of the dead , they grappled in deadly desperation . 
The language of the outlaw was that of vituperation and hate ; that of Conway , an indignation natural to feelings which revolted at the brutal and sanguinary rage of his enemy , tempered , at the same time , with equal scorn , and resolution . 
In Clarence Conway , the chief of the Black Riders saw only the embodied form of all the evil influences which he had felt or fancied from his boyhood ; the long engendered envy and malice of twenty years finding , at length , its unqualified expression . 
In his eyes , he was the hateful rival who had beguiled from him with equal facility , the regards of parents , the attachments of friends , the smiles of fortune and the love of woman . 
Clarence , on the other hand , no longer saw the kinsman of his youth -- the son of the same father -- in the person of the outlaw ; or , if he remembered the ties of blood at all , it was only to warm his hostility the more against one who had so commonly outraged , and so cruelly dishonoured them ! 
Clarence had grappled closely with his kinsman , had borne him backward , and succeeded in prostrating him , face upward , upon the pile of coffins which rose in the centre of the tomb . 
Here , with his knee upon the breast of his enemy , one hand upon his throat , and the other bearing on high the already dripping steel , the stroke and the death seemed equally inevitable . 
I ask you not for mercy -- I loathe you , Clarence Conway -- I loathe and curse you to the last . 
He half rose -- he grasped the arm with which Clarence held him , with demoniac strength , and flinging himself upward , with the exercise of all that muscle which he possessed in almost equal degree with his brother , he almost shook himself free from the hold which the latter had taken upon him . 
It was then that the dagger of Clarence descended ! 
-- then , when it became obvious that no indulgence could be given to his foe without danger to himself ; but the blow , even then , was not final -- not fatal ! 
The dagger-point barely grazed the breast of the falling man ; and Clarence , still grappling with his foe , and grappled by him in turn , was dragged downward to the earth , and the two lay together , for an instant , without strife , among the crushed and bleached bones of a bygone generation . 
So far , Clarence Conway , you have had the matter all to yourself . 
To this the heart of Clarence gave back no response . 
Though not less fearless than his brother -- nay , though greatly excited by the strife , it yet had , to his mind , the aspect of a horror which he could not complacently behold . 
The few moments consumed in this brief dialogue , had brought him back to those reflections which the provocation of the strife had almost wholly banished . 
But he suffered no mental nor moral scruples , at such a moment , to impair his manhood . 
`` I too am ready , '' was his only answer as he left the vault . 
He was followed by the outlaw ; and there , in another moment , they stood together on the green sward before the tomb , fiercely confronting each other with eyes of mortal hate -- utterly unmoved by the pure and placid smiles of that maiden moon whose blessed light they were about to employ for the most unblessed purpose . 
Clarence Conway , on the other hand , took no such precaution . 
He calmly surveyed the movements of his opponent without changing muscle or position . 
His eye glanced , however , with a momentary anxiety , to the clear blue vault , and the pale , pure presence looking down upon him from above , and turned involuntarily , though for a single instant only , to the distant dwelling of Flora Middleton . 
`` Ay , look , Clarence Conway -- look ! 
demanded Clarence Conway . 
replied Clarence , while he continued to regard his enemy with a face of increased deliberation . 
was the ironical speech of the outlaw ; but Clarence interrupted him with a cool firmness of tone and look which disarmed the intended sarcasm . 
You may slay me , but I can grapple with you , Clarence Conway -- I can rush upon your weapon , and , sacrificing myself , succeed in killing you ! 
I am a desperate man , Clarence Conway , and such a man always has the life of his enemy at the point of his dagger ! '' 
`` You deceive yourself , Edward Conway -- fatally deceive yourself if you have such a fancy ; '' replied Clarence solemnly . 
For this reason I would forego the indulgence of those passions , Edward Conway -- '' `` Not Conway -- Morton , Cunningham ! 
-- any thing but Conway ! '' 
A smile of scorn passed over the lips of Clarence . 
`` I thank you for your correction , '' he said . 
cried Clarence , with a fury that seemed as little governable as that of the outlaw , `` you are doomed . 
Strike as if your heart were in it , Clarence Conway , for , by God 's death , I will have it in your heart , if hell has not grown deaf to human prayer . 
It is some pleasure , Clarence Conway , to know that yours is tolerably pure blood -- at least it will do no dishonour to my dagger . '' 
But Clarence was no ordinary foe . 
His anger did not deprive him of his coolness , and his skill with the weapon was far beyond that of most men of his time . 
Still , it required all his watchfulness and circumspection -- all his readiness of eye and arm , to baffle the purpose of the other . 
He renewed those coarse sneers and insinuations which had been always effectual in provoking Clarence , and which had closed their previous conference . 
He spoke of Flora Middleton , and in such language as was admirably calculated to throw a lover off his guard . 
I tell you , Clarence Conway , if ever woman spoke falsely , Flora Middleton spoke falsely to you when she consented to be yours . 
cried Clarence , striking at him furiously as he heard these words ; `` know I not that you have striven to fill her pure ears with falsehoods almost as foul as those you would now thrust into mine ? '' 
cried the other with a yell of delight , as his lunge carried the point of his dagger into the breast of the partisan -- a flesh wound only , but one in dangerous proximity to the angry heart that was now boiling in its neighbourhood . 
The youth felt his imprudence , but if he had not , there was a counselling friend at hand , who did not suffer him to go unreminded . 
`` Do n't you let him fool you , Clarence -- he 's only trying to blind you -- do n't mind him -- he 's a born liar , and if you stick as you should , he 'll die with a lie in his mouth . 
Strike away , Clarence , as you can strike ; and only forget that you ever had a father who was so foolish as to git a son of the wrong breed . 
`` Keep back -- meddle not , John Bannister , '' cried Clarence . 
`` I know it , Clarence ; but , Lord love you , do n't git into a foolish passion . 
-- I 'm jest a-looking on to see the eend , and obsarve fair play ; only make haste , Clarence -- shut him up as soon as you can , for the bugle 's a-sounding from the head of the avenue , and there 's little time to lose . '' 
The warning was not to be disregarded , and Clarence Conway soon brought the strife to an issue . 
The resumption of his caution seduced the outlaw into a renewal of his rashness , and his dagger hand was caught in the grasp of the partisan at the same moment when the weapon of the other sunk into his heart . 
Clarence relaxed his hold upon his victim the instant that the blow was given . 
He fancied that he had given him the coup de graceas he intended ; and a strange , keen , sudden pang rushed like lightning through his own bosom . 
A faintness covered his frame -- his sight was growing darkened ; and , with the last convulsive moment of reflection , he threw himself forward upon the breast of his enemy , whose dagger-point was now turned upon the ground . 
His left arm was tightly clasped about the form of Clarence , while his right , with all the remaining consciousness of his mind , and the concentrated , but fast failing vigour of his frame , addressed a blow at the heart of the latter , which it needed sufficient strength alone to render fatal . 
His hold upon his enemy was instantly relaxed , and he fell fainting at the feet of Clarence , ere the latter had sufficiently recovered from the horror which he felt , to be altogether conscious of the danger from which he had escaped . 
With every justification for the deed which necessity could bring , he yet felt how full of pain and sorrow , if not crime , was the shedding of a brother 's blood . 
Clarence had now overcome his enemy , who was prostrate and insensible , and , faint himself , was bending over him in a fruitless effort to stanch the blood which issued from a deep wound on the side . 
Bannister approached him with the inquiry -- `` God be thanked , Clarence , that you are uppermost . 
`` I 'm sorry for it , Clarence . 
I ai n't sorry that you ha n't killed him , for I 'd rather you should n't do it ; -- but I 'm mighty sorry he 's not dead . 
It 'll be all the better for him if he is . 
`` But we can not leave him here , Jack . 
You could n't help it , Clarence . 
He would force it upon you . 
Did n't I hear him myself ? 
demanded Clarence . 
demanded Clarence as he gazed with an aspect of complete bewilderment , now at the body of his kinsman , and now at the distant mansion . 
`` Clarence , trust to me . 
I 'll be mighty soon after you ; but before I start , I 'll give 'em a blast of my horn , and a scare from my puppy-dog here '' -- meaning his pistol -- `` which 'll be pretty sure to bring a dozen of 'em on my track . 
Trust to me , Clarence , and go ahead . '' 
He took not a single farther look at his enemy , whose grim and ghastly features , turned up-wards in the moonlight , presented an aspect far more fearful than any which the simple appearance of death presented ; and , with a few words of parting direction to the woodman , he hurried away to the hollow where his horse had been concealed . 
A quiet dignity and a gentle grace was apparent in the conduct of both , in receiving the British chief : -- and this , in the younger of the two ladies , was mingled with some little tremulousness -- the result of her consciousness of what had just before taken place between herself and Clarence Conway -- which Rawdon was not unwilling to ascribe to the agitation which his own presence must naturally produce in every youthful mind . 
But in revenge for this sharp speech of yours , fair lady , may I know when Colonel Conway was here last ; how long since he has taken his departure , and where I may expect to find him ? '' 
`` He has been here , my lord , I frankly tell you , but when he left I will not say . 
You will find him -- '' She hesitated as if in meditation , while her large brilliant eyes shone without a cloud upon her auditor , and her form seemed to dilate in more than feminine majesty as she rose to leave the room : -- `` Stay , Miss Middleton , '' said his lordship , `` you have not told me where I may expect to find Colonel Conway . '' 
These rascally horse of Lee and Conway have , I fear , cut off all my messengers to Cruger , as they certainly have cut off every thing , in the shape of intelligence , from me . '' 
`` Does your lordship know that Col. Conway , with all his troop , has been here within the last hour ? 
Your coming scared him from his roost . '' 
`` Then he can not even now be far . 
We must send Major Banks after him : '' and his lordship was about to summon a messenger . 
This is what Conway expects , and what he will prepare for . '' 
`` But we can not suffer him to lie or loiter about our encampment , we must brush him off at the risk of a sting . '' 
Now , however , Conway is in possession of his own ground , all of which he knows , while Major Banks will be moving to danger with a blind across his eyes . '' 
`` You are right : -- and what has Conway been doing here , and where is his brother , -- our desperado of the Congaree ? '' 
How is it I have not seen him , then ? '' 
`` You will see him shortly , my lord , and in bad condition . 
Clarence Conwaywas not far distant from the British camp , and was soon found by John Bannister , after the latter had taken his leave of Watson Gray . 
Conway 's regiment , according to the necessities of the service , was in half a dozen hands ; Sumter had a portion of it at this time , on the Santee ; Marion on the Pedee ; while Greene exercised the remaining divisions as Conway employed the small body in his immediate command ; -- in cutting off supplies -- intercepting messengers , overawing the disaffected , and hanging upon the skirts of the enemy where they marched , as at this time , in a body too large for any more bold procedure . 
As the connection between this latter person and Edward Morton was very well known to Clarence , the mind of the latter was rendered rather easy on the subject of his brother . 
He knew that Morton was of sufficient importance to the British army to make his restoration the particular charge of Rawdon ; but his satisfaction on this subject was somewhat qualified when he remembered that the patient would , necessarily , become an occupant of the same dwelling with Flora Middleton . 
This wood was traversed by the scouts of Conway , who saw the advanced videttes of the British , without suffering themselves to be seen , and gradually receded as the latter continued to approach ; still , however , keeping a keen eye upon the stations which they severally assumed . 
Conway , however , was not the man to do any thing rashly at such a moment . 
Before he led his men forward , he determined to explore the British camp himself ; and having arranged with Bannister for a concerted espionage , the two went forward for this purpose , though on different routes . 
Conway pursued the way through the pine forest in front , while Bannister took an opposite but parallel course along the high road , which he crossed for this purpose . 
By making a small circuit of a mile and a half along a negro footpath which carried them through a swamp on the right , Conway found that he could get into the British rear , and probably use the sabre to advantage on the edge of the encampment . 
All being now in readiness , Conway gave instructions to Lieutenant Peyton to make no movement on the front , until sufficient time had been allowed him for getting into the rear of the encampment ; and then to give the alertewith all the clamour he could command . 
By two and two , he led his troops forward , each man on foot and guiding his steed with rein shortened , until they had passed the narrow open neck of high land on which the public road ran , and which separated the one bay which he had lately occupied from another to which he now bent his steps . 
A British vidette was stationed not more than a hundred yards from the point of passage , and great indeed were the anxieties of Clarence and of all , until the horses ceased to traverse the highland , and entered upon the mucky unresounding footing of the swamp . 
The British sentinel was in his drowsiest mood , and suffered the passage to be effected without alarm . 
The last two files were now entirely beyond his hearing , and Conway , throwing off the difficult constraint , gave orders to his followers to mount and follow him at as swift a pace as possible through the negro trail which they now traversed . 
Conway had lost much blood , and this , Gray very well knew , was rather favourable to his condition . 
`` It 's a poor girl , '' he said to the servant to whom his information was entrusted , `` that followed Colonel Conway from the Congaree , and when he and his brother fought by the vault , which they did about your young mistress , the poor girl jumped between to save the Colonel , and got her hurts that way . 
Her personal presence was not necessary , but she could not sleep on account of the troublesome and humiliating fancies which possessed her , on the subject of the story which she had heard in regard to Clarence Conway . 
I 'm a sort of scouting serjeant , when I 'm in the woods , for Col. Conway 's rigiment ; but with my hands hitched behind me , jest now , I do n't feel as if I was any body . '' 
`` There 's more , I reckon , your lordship , '' said Gray , in a whisper , `` Col. Conway sometimes has a whole regiment , and I 've seldom known him with less than a hundred . '' 
Clarence Conway , with a single exception , had every reason to be satisfied with the result of his expedition . 
He had lost but one man , slain ; and but two were missing . 
The reader is already apprised of the situation of the former ; of the latter neither party had any present knowledge : Conway was utterly ignorant , and very anxious about the fate of his trusty agent . 
Clarence Conway did full justice to this affection . 
He loitered and lingered long that night while leaving the field of conflict , in the hope to see the trusty fellow reappear ; and slow indeed were his parting footsteps when , at the dawn of day , he set his little band in motion for the Saluda . 
With a sad heart , but no diminution of enterprise or spirit , Colonel Conway took up the line of march for the Saluda , with the purpose of joining General Greene before Ninety-Six ; or , in the event of that place being already in possession of the Americans , of extending his march towards the mountains , where General Pickens was about to operate against the Cherokee Indians . 
But Conway was soon made sensible of the inefficiency of his force to contend even with the inferior cavalry of the enemy . 
The march of the British , though urged forward with due diligence by their stern commander , was , at the same time , distinguished by such a degree of caution as effectually to discourage Conway in his attempts upon it . 
Conway was compelled to console himself with the profitless compliment which this vigilance paid to his spirit and address ; and after hovering for the best part of a day 's march around the path of the advancing enemy , without an opportunity to inflict a blow , he reluctantly pressed forward with increased speed for Ninety-Six to prepare General Greene for the coming of the new enemy . 
This siege formed one of the most animated and critical occurrences during the southern war , and had already lasted near a month , when Colonel Conway joined his little troop to the force of the commander-in-chief . 
The arrival of Conway announced the approach of Rawdon , and the same night furnished the same important intelligence to Cruger . 
Colonel Conway was admitted that night to the tent of the general , where a council of war was to be held as to the course now to be pursued . 
Conway had seen him more than once before , but never to so much advantage as now , when a defeat so serious as that which threatened his hopes , had rendered necessary the measure of consultation then in hand . 
He looked for the signs of peevishness and vexation but he saw none . 
His tall , erect , military form , pale , thin and melancholy features , light brown hair , already thinned above his lofty brow , together with the soft blue eye which lightened them up at moments with almost girlish animation , seemed to the mind of Conway inexpressibly touching . 
The fate and name of Kosciuzko seemed so intimately connected with that of his country , that the eye of the spectator beheld the miseries of Poland in the sad features of its melancholy exile . 
His words , few , and sweetened as it were by the imperfect English in which they were expressed , riveted the attention of all , and were considered with marked deference by the commander , to whom they were addressed . 
There were other brave men at that anxious table , but Conway had eyes and ears for none but these . 
Colonel Conway , whose exertions merit my warmest acknowledgments , represents his force as quite too formidable for any thing that we can bring against him . 
He brings with him three fresh regiments from Ireland , the remains of the regiment of Boze , near six hundred loyalists whom he has mounted as cavalry , besides Coffin 's dragoons ; -- in all , an army little short of three thousand men . 
The British general was at hand , and , the dead being buried , the American commander struck his tents and commenced the retreat which carried Clarence Conway still farther from a region in which all his feelings and anxieties were now deeply and doubly interested . 
We will not attempt to pursue his flight , but retracing our steps in a quarter to which he dare not turn , we will resume our march along with that of the British army , when they left the Middleton Barony , to advance upon Ninety-Six . 
Let me treat her kindly , and not remember to her detriment , that Clarence Conway has been her destroyer . 
Oh , Clarence , Clarence ! 
She took it for granted that Clarence Conway was the one who was wholly guilty -- his victim was only weak through the strength of her attachment . 
`` Surely , Clarence Conway could not have drawn weapon upon her ! '' 
That vicious adherent seized the moment to inform him of the steps he had taken to lay the wrong done her innocence at the door of Clarence Conway , and to convey this impression to Flora Middleton . 
-- of Conway . 
Take him not from me -- not -- not till I am in the grave . 
Mr. Clarence Conway is in no danger -- he escaped . 
Conway had ruined her peace and happiness ; her father had driven her from her home ; and he , who had never wilfully meant , or said , her wrong , had inflicted the fatal blow which had deprived her of life -- perhaps , the stroke of mercy and relief to a crushed and wounded spirit such as hers ! 
`` That should be the wish of Clarence Conway , not yours ; '' said Gray , taking the literal sense of the outlaw 's expression . 
She heard frequently of Clarence Conway , and always favourably . 
Now he was harassing the tories on the upper Saluda , and now driving them before him into the meshes of Pickens among the Unacaya mountains . 
It was reported that a severe fight had taken place between Conway 's Blues and the Black Riders . 
The latter were beguiled into an ambush which Conway had devised , after the ordinary Indian fashion , in the form of a triangle , in which twenty-three of the Black Riders were sabred , and the rest dispersed . 
They suspect us , they know something , perhaps , and if Conway has only cut themup along with the twenty-three , we shall count him as good an ally as the best . '' 
The outlaw referred to the slander which Gray had insinuated against Clarence Conway . 
She 's so proud that there 's no telling where it hurts her , and she 'll never tell herself ; but I know from the flashing of her eye , after I said what I did about Colonel Conway and Mary Clarkson , that she believed and felt it . 
Gray took the hint , and the surgeon readily accepted the invitation to a walk , in which the former continued to give to his companion a very succinct account of the duel between the brothers , and the engagement supposed to be existing between Clarence and Flora . 
`` Now , Mr. Conway , your patient , as soon as he heard that Colonel Conway was courting Miss Middleton , pursued him to reproach him for his breach of promise to the poor creature . 
The proud stomach of Colonel Conway could n't bear that , and he drew upon Mr. Conway and wounded him in the face before he could put himself in preparation . 
`` He will go to Flora Middleton in his dove-coloured small-clothes , and find some way of letting her know what a scamp Clarence Conway is , and what a martyr I have been to the cause of innocence betrayed . 
Let him kill Clarence Conway in her esteem , and he , certainly , is not the thing to be afraid of . 
The supposed infidelity of Clarence Conway had touched her deeply -- more deeply than even she had at first apprehended . 
When she first heard the accusation against him , and saw the wretched condition of the poor girl whom she believed to be destroyed by his profligacy , she said , in the fervour of virtuous indignation which prevailed in her mind , -- `` I will shake him off for ever , and forget that I ever knew him ! '' 
Clarence Conway , we are sundered , -- separated , for ever ! 
Strange to say , though she knew him chiefly as the friend of Clarence Conway , and had every present reason to believe in the faithlessness and unworthiness of the latter , her confidence in , and esteem for , John Bannister , remained entirely unimpaired . 
The wonder was that Conway should have so entirely secured the affections of such a creature . 
`` No : they were gone after Conway , somewhere above upon the Eunoree . '' 
`` May they find him , and batter out each other 's brains at the meeting ; '' was the pious and fraternal wish of the outlaw . 
For , though he desarves hanging and quartering as much as ever man desarved it , yet he 's come of the same blood , half-way , with Clarence Conway ; and for his sake , I 'm willing to let Ned Conway get clear of the hanging . 
He had no means of contending with such a force , and where was Clarence Conway ? 
Feeling for his commander , and sympathizing with his affections , the first thought of Bannister had reference to the new dangers which beset the path of Flora Middleton . 
-- if he would only send Clarence now , with fifty of his troop , among these bloody black reffygees ! '' 
-- four feet -- do you take me with you , Capt. Conway ? 
roared Gray ; and Conway also echoed the laughter of the surgeon , but it was rather at himself than his wit . 
`` You discompose my nerves , Capt. Conway . 
had it been Clarence Conway , who lay sick and wounded in her dwelling , what a difference ! 
She 'd have deigned him a glance before this ! 
She 'd have sat beside his bed , and her hand would have been in his , and she would have played with his hair , and her long locks would have floated upon his cheek ! 
If you are right , -- if she believes that Clarence Conway has been doing those evil deeds which I need not acknowledge , and has dismissed him for ever from her regards , then this is the very time to urge my claims and be successful . 
did n't you let her know that they were got fighting with Clarence in defence of injured innocence , and all that ! 
He had every reason to suppose , in addition , that the late close intercourse between herself and Clarence Conway , however brief , had enabled the latter to afford her some information of the true state of their mutual feelings and interests . 
But , in due proportion with the small amount of knowledge which he possessed , was the reasonable apprehension which he entertained of the extent of what she knew . 
He had every reason to fancy that she knew all ; and his chief hope lay in the fruitful falsehoods which his wily coadjutor had taken occasion to plant within her mind . 
If those falsehoods had taken root -- if they flourished -- perhaps the difficulty would not be great to make her doubt all the assertions of his brother . 
Such were his thoughts , and such the hopes , upon which he founded his new purposes of deception . 
The surprise of all parties was great , and openly expressed , as he suddenly entered the supper-room . 
said Conway . 
exclaimed Conway . 
was the interruption of Conway . 
The pale yellow crescent which gleamed upon their caps of felt or fur , and their blue uniforms , apprised him that they were the favourite troopers of Clarence Conway ; and the wild shout which they set up at seeing him , too plainly told the eagerness with which they were resolved to dash upon their prey . 
Gnashing his teeth in the bitterness of his disappointment , he growled , in loud soliloquy , as he drove the spurs into his charger 's sides , and sent him headlong through the woods . 
Where the deuse did Conway spring from ? 
He 's after Stockton , that 's clear ; but what brought him below ? 
The very first pistol-shot had been reported to Conway by one of his scouts , and the troop had been scattered instantly , with orders to take a wide circuit , and contract to a common centre , around the spot whence the alarm had arisen . 
One and another of Conway 's troop appeared at almost every interval in the forest , the pursuing party were pressing forward with wild shouts of rage and encouragement from behind , and a darker feeling , and far more solemn conviction of evil , now filled the mind of the outlaw . 
These drove him forward ; and he derived a new stimulus of daring , as he discovered among the advancing horsemen the person of Clarence Conway himself . 
The sight of Clarence Conway aroused in him something more than the mere desire of escape . 
Of escape , indeed , he did not now think so much . 
But the desire to drag down with him into the embrace of death an object of so much anxiety and hate , and frequent vexation , was itself a delight ; and the thought begat a hope in his mind , which left him comparatively indifferent to all the dangers which might have threatened himself . 
He saw Conway approaching , but he did not now wait for his coming . 
To remain , indeed , was to subject him to the necessity of throwing away his resources of death and of defence , upon the less worthy antagonists who were closing up from behind . 
Accordingly , drawing both pistols from his belt , he dropped the reins of his horse upon his neck , and gave him the spur . 
cried Conway to the troopers around him , as he saw this action -- `` the man is desperate . '' 
He himself did not seem to value the caution which he expressed to others . 
He dashed forward to encounter the desperate man , his broadsword waving above his head , and forming , in their sight , the crescent emblem of his followers . 
With loud cries they pressed forward after his footsteps ; but the splendid charger which Conway bestrode , allowed them no chance of interposition . 
The resolute demeanour , and reckless advance of Conway , probably saved his life . 
The bullet shattered the epaulette upon Conway 's shoulder , and grazed the flesh , but scarcely to inflict a wound . 
Before he could use the second , a henchman of Conway 's , a mere boy , rode up , and shivered the hand which grasped it by a shot , almost sent at hazard , from a single and small pistol which he carried . 
In another moment the sweeping sabre of Conway descended upon the neck of the outlaw , cutting through the frail resistance of coat and collar , and almost severing the head from the shoulders . 
The space of time had been fearfully short between his own fate , and that which the murderer had inflicted upon Brydone . 
His reflections upon that person , may justify us in giving those which fell from the lips of Clarence Conway , as the victim was identified . 
said he , `` a bad fellow , but a great scout . 
Dividing his little force , Conway gave the order to `` trot , '' and the troop was soon under quick motion , going over the ground which they so recently traversed . 
It was midday before Clarence Conway took up the line of march for Middleton Barony , and this mental inquiry was one for which he could find no plausible solution until some time after he had arrived there . 
Let us not anticipate his arrival . 
At that very moment Gray was quivering in the few brief agonies of death , which he endured under the sabre of Clarence Conway . 
It is , -- it must be the voice of Clarence Conway . '' 
Clarence Conway was , indeed , within the dwelling . 
With limbs that trembled , and a heart that shuddered as he advanced , the young commander trod the avenues of the dwelling which bore such bloody proofs , at every footstep , of the fearful conflict which we have faintly endeavoured to describe . 
The victims were all unknown to him , and their uniforms , those equally of the British and the banditti , did not awaken in him any sympathy in their behalf . 
Even though it had been made their place of retreat and refuge , such , he would have preferred it to remain , sooner than its peaceful and pure sanctuary should have been dishonoured by such unholy tokens . 
But the more serious concern which troubled him , arose from his apprehensions for Flora and her grandmother . 
He hurried through the several chambers , calling on their names . 
Well might his voice thicken with a husky horror , as he heard the responses only of the deserted apartments , in so many mocking echoes . 
At length , when he was most miserable , and when , in his further search in the upper chambers , he dreaded lest he should happen on their mangled remains , his ear recognised , or he fancied , an answer in those tones which were then doubly dear to his senses . 
he cried aloud , but with a rapidity of utterance which almost made his syllables incoherent , lest he should somehow lose the repetition of the sweet assurance which he had so faintly heard before . 
The door of the attic was thrown open in the next instant , and the voice of the maiden summoned him to her presence . 
He clasped her in his arms with a fervour which could not be put aside ; which no mere looks of reserve could discourage or repulse ; nay , under circumstances of relief which wrought in her mind a momentary forgetfulness of his supposed perfidy . 
was his fervent ejaculation ; `` but tell me , dear Flora , what means the horrible carnage which has taken place below ? '' 
`` Oh , Clarence -- your brother ! 
Is he not there -- is he not among the slain ? '' 
he is not among them -- what of him ? 
`` Then they have made him prisoner -- the Black Riders -- they made the assault upon the house because he was in it ; their avowed purpose being to execute death upon him as a rebel . '' 
A sad smile passed over the lips of Clarence , as he heard these words , and his head was shaken with a mournful doubt . 
`` He has nothing to fear from them , Flora ! '' 
he replied , `` but where are they ? 
`` But your brother -- remember , Colonel Conway , that he isyour brother ! '' 
`` Colonel Conway ! '' 
exclaimed the young soldier , with a surprise that was greatly increased as he beheld the looks of the speaker , now suddenly cold and frozen . 
I tremble , Colonel Conway , lest you should be too late ! '' 
`` Colonel Conway , again ! 
From her heart she wished him , of all others , to fare well ! 
She looked with a longing , lingering gaze after his noble form , so erect , so commanding , so distinguished in all its movements , by the governing strength of a high and fearless soul within . 
Clarence Conway immediately set his troop in motion . 
He detached his more trusty scouts in advance . 
At the moment of leaving the house , he had no sort of intelligence which could designate the position of the Black Riders , or even assure him of their near neighborhood . 
Conway moved forward therefore with the greatest caution . 
He might be entering an ambuscade , and certainly had reason to apprehend one , in consequence of the sudden flight of the banditti from the mansion-house before they had sacked it . 
The stern justice which in those days required blood for blood , had long since selected the fierce chief of the Black Riders as a conspicuous victim for the gallows ; and Clarence Conway , as a means to avoid this cruel possibility , issued the sanguinary orders to his troop to show no quarter . 
This resolve was made and the command given , after he had been advised by the scouts that the enemy were collected in force upon an open ground on the river bluff , a short mile and a half above . 
They also conveyed to Conway the farther intelligence that they might have gone much nearer with impunity , -- that the foe , so far from forming an ambush , had not , in fact , taken the usual precautions against attack , -- had not thrown out any sentinels , and might be surprised with little difficulty . 
Upon hearing this , Clarence Conway gave orders for a division of his force into three equal parties ; one of which was despatched to make a circuit , and gain a point above them upon the river , a second was ordered to traverse the river banks from below , while he , himself , leading on the third division , was to burst suddenly upon them from the forest -- the nearest point from which the attack could be made . 
Were they apprised of his approach ? 
Clarence Conway , in all his conjectures , made no sort of approach to the real nature of that one rifle-shot , and yet it was of some importance to him and to his feelings . 
It rendered a portion of his task less irksome , and far less difficult . 
Silently , he led the way for his division -- not a bugle sounded -- scarce a word was spoken , and the parties separated on their several courses , with no more noise than was unavoidable , from the regular and heavy tread of their horses ' feet . 
It 's a good name , and he 's the blood-kin of Clarence . '' 
Clarence Conway was already upon them . 
His little band , in advance of the other two divisions , began the fray as soon as it had reached within striking distance ; and the sudden effect of their surprise compensated well for the inadequacy of their numbers . 
He rallied his men with promptness , enforced their courage by the exhibition of his own ; and his numbers , being still superior to the small force which had followed Conway through the woods , the effect of his first surprise was overcome , and the issue of the conflict soon grew doubtful . 
It was the fortune of Stockton to fall under the sabre of Clarence Conway ; while Darcy , leaping into the river perished beneath a blow from the clubbed rifle of John Bannister , whose boat , a moment after , touched the shore . 
Clarence Conway , after the close of the conflict , devoted a few painful moments to the examination of the bloody field . 
The eye of Clarence , searchingly fell on that of his follower ; and he at once divined the meaning of the interruption . 
`` Yes , Clarence , there he is ; -- a rifle bullet kept off a worse eending . 
He died like a brave man , though it mou ' t be , he did n't live like a good one . 
Leave the rest to me , Clarence . 
I 'll see that he 's put decently out of sight . 
`` It 's a ragged hole that a rifle bullet works in a white forehead , Clarence ; and you 'll hardly know it ; '' said the scout as he reluctantly gave way before the extended hand of his superior . 
Clarence Conway gazed in silence for a space upon the inanimate and bloody form before him ; a big tear gathered slowly in his eyes , but he brushed away the intruder with a hasty hand ; while he turned once more to meet his followers who were slowly gathering in the back grounds . 
He felt , even at that moment , a cheering sensation , as he knew that his brother had fallen by another hand than his . 
That pang , at least , was spared him ; and for the rest , the cause of sorrow was comparatively slight . 
`` He could have lived ; '' he murmured as he turned away from the bloody spectacle -- `` He could have lived only as a dishonoured and a suspected man . 
His path would have been stained with crime , and dogged by enemies . 
Flora Middleton and her lover were soon reconciled , and the misunderstanding between them easily and promptly explained . 
Jacob Clarkson and John Bannister were living and sufficient witnesses to save Clarence Conway the necessity of answering for himself , and of denouncing his late kinsman . 
In the course of a brief year following these events , the British were beaten from the country , and Clarence and Flora united in the holy bonds of matrimony . 
His long stories about the Revolution , of his own feats and those of Clarence Conway , were remembered and repeated by him , with little variation , to the last . 
In this he differed considerably from ordinary chroniclers of the old school , simply , perhaps , because his stories were originally more truthful , and his memory , in spite of his years , which were `` frosty but kindly , '' was singularly tenacious to the end . 
John Bannister lived long enough to see the eldest son of Clarence Conway almost as good a marksman with the rifle , and as supple a forester , as he himself had been in his better days ; and his dying moments were consoled by the affectionate offices of those , whom , with a paternal wisdom , he had chosen for his friends from the beginning . 
