`` Richard Wade , '' says Churm . 
`` He has been in California , '' the nominator said . 
`` We must get Wade , '' Churm says , with authority . 
`` He knows Iron by heart . 
He can handle Men . 
I will back him with my blank check , to any amount , to his order . '' 
`` We take him , '' they said , and Richard Wade was the new Superintendent unanimously . 
Wade left his traps at the station , and walked through the village . 
Wade read , `` Ringdove , Successor to late P. Purtett . '' 
So said Wade , and rang the bell under the roses . 
`` This explains the roses and the melodeon , '' thought Wade , and asked , `` Can I see your mother ? '' 
`` Mild , timid , accustomed to depend on the late Perry , and wants a friend , '' Wade analyzed , while he bowed . 
He proposed himself as a lodger . 
The cut of Wade 's jib was unclerical . 
He did not stoop , like a new minister . 
He was not pallid , meagre , and clad in unwhole some black , like the same . 
His bronzed face was frank and bold and unfamiliar with speculations on Original Sin or Total Depravity . 
`` I am not the new minister , '' said Wade , smiling slightly over his moustache ; `` but a new Superintendent for the Foundry . '' 
The widow 's heart thus opened , Wade walked in as consoler . 
This also opened the lodgings to him . 
He was presently installed in the large and small front-rooms up-stairs , unpacking his traps , and making himself permanently at home . 
asks Whiffler , with a half-sneer , watching Wade hanging a map and a print vis-à-vis . 
Whiffler himself , insolent , cowardly , and a humbug , if not a swindler , was enough , Wade thought , to account for any failure . 
But he did not mention this conviction . 
Atten next morning , Whiffler handed over the safe-key to Wade , and departed to ruin some other property , if he could get one to ruin . 
Wade walked with him to the gate . 
mused Wade , as he returned to the office . 
He had the bell tapped and the men called together in the main building . 
Wade grew indignant , as he looked about him and saw so much good stuff and good force wasting for want of a little will and skill to train the force and manage the stuff . 
He abhorred bankruptcy and chaos . 
`` All they want here is a head , '' he thought . 
He shook his own . 
Wade had made up his mind on this subject . 
He waited a moment until the men were still . 
He was a Saxon six-footer of thirty . 
He stood easily on his pins , as if he had eyed men and facts before . 
His mouth looked firm , his brow freighted , his nose clipper , -- that the hands could see . 
Wade began , short and sharp as a trip-hammer , when it has a bar to shape . 
Richard Wade is my name . 
The men were evidently impressed with Wade 's Inaugural . 
In a better mood , Bill would have liked Wade 's looks and words ; but to-day he had a sore head , a sour face , and a bitter heart , from last night 's spree . 
And then he had heard -- it was as well known already in Dunderbunk as if the town-crier had cried it -- that Wade was lodging at Mrs. Purtett 's , where poor Bill was excluded . 
says Wade . 
Wade moved close to him , also looking dangerous . 
Wade knocked him down flat on a heap of moulding-sand . 
He jumped up from his soft bed and made a vicious rush at Wade . 
But he was damaged by evil courses . 
He was fighting against law and order , on the side of wrong and bad manners . 
The same fist met him again , and heavier . 
Up went his heels ! 
Down went his head ! 
It struck the ragged edge of a fresh casting , and there he lay stunned and bleeding on his hard black pillow . 
said Wade , in a tone that made the ringer jump . 
Thepioneer sunbeam of next Christmas morning rattled over the Dunderbunk hills , flashed into Richard Wade 's eyes , waked him , and was off , ricochetting across the black ice of the river . 
Wade jumped up , electrified and jubilant . 
He had gone to bed feeling quite too despondent for so healthy a fellow . 
Christmas Eve , the time of family meetings , reminded him how lonely he was . 
He had not a relative in the world , except two little nieces , -- one as tall as his knee , the other almost up to his waist ; and them he had safely bestowed in a nook of New England , to gain wit and virtues as they gained inches . 
`` I have had a stern and lonely life , '' thought Wade , as he blew out his candle last night , `` and what has it profited me ? '' 
But , answered or not , the question troubled Wade no more . 
Wade went down to breakfast with an heroic appetite . 
His `` Merry Christmas '' to Mrs. Purtett was followed up by a ravished kiss and the gift of a silver butter-knife . 
Wade 's salutation to Belle Purtett was more distant . 
`` We shall meet on the ice , Miss Belle , '' said Wade . 
Wade breakfasted deliberately , as a holiday morning allowed , and then walked down to the Foundry . 
`` I wish I were Rembrandt , to paint this grand shadowy interior , '' thought Wade , as he entered the silent , deserted Foundry . 
He opened his office , took his Report and began to complete it with , s , ; s , and.s in the right places . 
`` Come in , '' said Wade , and , enter young Perry Purtett . 
Wade followed him . 
Wade , following in the wake of Perry , took his stand facing the rank , and waited to see what he was summoned for . 
Perry advanced and did his office loftily , much to the amusement of Wade and the workmen . 
`` Now , boys , '' Bill perorated , `` before I retire to the shades of private life , I motion we give Three Cheers -- regular Toplifters -- for Richard Wade ! '' 
Wade and Good Government ! '' 
Wade and Prosperity ! '' 
Wade and the Women 's Tears Dry ! '' 
Of course Wade had to speak , and did . 
He would not have been an American in America else . 
But his heart was too full to say more than a few hearty and earnest words of good feeling . 
`` Now , men , '' he closed , `` I want to get away on the river and see if my skates will go as they look ; so I 'll end by proposing three cheers for Smith Wheelwright , our Chairman , three for our Orator , Tarbox , three for Old Dunderbunk , -- Works , Men , Women , and Children ; and one big cheer for Old Father Iron , as rousing a cheer as ever was roared . '' 
The rest were already at high jinks on Zero 's Christmas present , when Wade and the men came down from the meeting . 
Wade buckled on his new skates in a jiffy . 
He stamped to settle himself , and then flung off half a dozen circles on the right leg , half a dozen with the left , and the same with either leg backwards . 
cries Wade , halting in front of the men , who , some on the Foundry wharf , some on the deck of our first acquaintance at Dunderbunk , the tug `` I. Ambuster , '' were putting on their skates or watching him . 
`` Now , then , '' Wade said , `` we 'll give Dunderbunk a laugh , as we practised last night . '' 
They got under full headway , Wade backwards , Bill forwards , holding hands . 
When they were near enough to the merry throng out in the stream , both dropped into a sitting posture , with the left knee bent , and each with his right leg stretched out parallel to the ice and fitting compactly by the other man 's leg . 
You wish to be so ranked among the people and things that lead the age ; -- consider the qualities you must have , and while you consider , keep your eye on Richard Wade , for he has them all in perfection . 
See Wade , how he shows them ! 
If I attempted to catalogue Wade 's achievements , this chapter might become an unintelligible rhapsody . 
Wade was U. P . 
Wade , U. P. , added to these an indefinite list of combinations and fresh contrivances . 
He spun spirals slow , and spirals neck or nothing . 
He pivoted on one toe , with the other foot cutting rings , inner and outer edge , forward and back . 
He skated on one foot better than the M. A.s could on both . 
He ran on his toes ; he slid on his heels ; he cut up shines like a sunbeam on a bender ; he swung , light as if he could fly , if he pleased , like a wing-footed Mercury ; he glided as if will , not muscle , moved him ; he tore about in frenzies ; his pivotal leg stood firm , his balance leg flapped like a graceful pinion ; he turned somersets ; he jumped , whirling backward as he went , over a platoon of boys laid flat on the ice ; -- the last boy winced , and thought he was amputated ; but Wade flew over , and the boy still holds together as well as most boys . 
Besides this , he could write his name , with a flourish at the end , like the rubricaof a Spanish hidalgo.He could podograph any letter , and multitudes of ingenious curlicues which might pass for the alphabets of the unknown tongues . 
He could nottumble . 
`` It 's all in the new skates , '' says Wade , apologizing for his unapproachable power and finish . 
`` Now chase me , everybody , '' said Wade . 
And , for a quarter of an hour , he dodged the merry crowd , until at last , breathless , he let himself be touched by pretty Belle Purtett , rosiest of all the Dunderbunk bevy of rosy maidens on the ice . 
But to-day Bill was a lion , only second to Wade , the unapproachable lion-in-chief . 
Getting up the meeting and presenting Wade with the skates was Bill 's own scheme , and it had turned out an eminent success . 
It was not the first time he had been jealous of Wade ; but he had quelled his fears , like a good fellow . 
Wade , noble fellow , worthy to win any woman 's heart , had fascinated his landlady 's daughter . 
`` I do n't wonder you like him , '' said he . 
Thehugging of Wade by the happy pair had to be done metaphorically , since it was done in the sight of all Dunderbunk . 
`` I do n't see her , '' Wade replied , looking with a mock-grave face up and down and athwart the river . 
`` I can hardly afford to make two bites of a holiday , '' said Wade . 
Prosperous Dunderbunk had a Dinner , yes , a Dinner , that day , and Richard Wade was gratefully remembered by many over-fed foundry-men and their over-fed families . 
Wade had not had half skating enough . 
`` I 'll time myself down to Skerrett 's Point , '' he thought , `` and take my luncheon there among the hemlocks . '' 
The Point was on the property of Peter Skerrett , Wade 's friend and college comrade of ten years gone . 
Peter had been an absentee in Europe , and smokes from his chimneys this morning had confirmed to Wade 's eyes the rumor of his return . 
The Point was a favorite spot of Wade 's . 
Many a twilight of last summer , tired with his fagging at the Works to make good the evil of Whiffler 's rule , he had lain there on the rocks under the hemlocks , breathing the spicy methyl they poured into the air . 
Braced by his lunch on the brown fibre of good Mrs. Purtett 's cold drumstick and thigh , Wade was now in fine trim . 
Wade felt the high exhilaration of pure blood galloping through a body alive from top to toe . 
The rhythm of his movement was like music to him . 
Just before he came abreast of it , Wade under mighty headway flung into his favorite corkscrew spiral on one foot , and went whirling dizzily along , round and round , in a straight line . 
At the dizziest moment , he was suddenly aware of a figure , also turning the Point at full speed , and rushing to a collision . 
He jerked aside to avoid it . 
He could not look to his footing . 
His skate struck a broken oar , imbedded in the ice . 
He fell violently , and lay like a dead man . 
His New Skates , Testimonial of Merit , seem to have served him a shabby trick . 
Appalled by the loud thump of the stranger 's skull upon the chief river of the State of New York , the lady -- it was a young lady whom Wade had tumbled to avoid -- turned , saw a human being lying motionless , and swept gracefully toward him , like a Good Samaritan , on the outer edge . 
It might be that he was killed , and half the fault hers . 
Wade 's impressive face , though for the moment blind as a statue 's , also seized its advantage and stared at her intently , with a pained and pleading look , new to those resolute features . 
Wade was entirely unconscious of the great hit he had made by his tumble : plump into the arms of this heroine ! 
There were fellows extant who would have suffered any imaginable amputation , any conceivable mauling , any fling from the apex of anything into the lowest deeps of anywhere , for the honor he was now enjoying . 
But all he knew was that his skull was a beehive in an uproar , and that one lobe of his brain was struggling to swarm off . 
His legs and arms felt as if they belonged to another man , and a very limp one at that . 
A ton of cast-iron seemed to be pressing his eyelids down , and a trickle of red-hot metal flowed from his cut forehead . 
Just as she was making up her mind to scream , Wade stirred . 
He began to tingle as if a familiar of the Inquisition were slapping him all over with fine-toothed currycombs . 
He became half conscious of a woman supporting him . 
In a stammering and intoxicated voice he murmured , -- He opened his eyes . 
It was not his mother ; for she was long since deceased . 
`` Do n't cry , '' says Wade , vaguely , and still only half conscious . 
`` Do n't scalp me , '' Wade continued , in the same tone . 
He raised his hand to his bleeding forehead . 
She laughed outright at his queer plaintive tone and the new class he had placed her in . 
Her laugh and his own movement brought Wade fully to himself . 
She perceived that his look was transferring her from the order of scalping squaws to her proper place as a beautiful young woman of the highest civilization , not smeared with vermilion , but blushing celestial rosy . 
`` Thank you , '' said Wade . 
And he regretted profoundly that good breeding obliged him to say so . 
He rested on the ice , -- posture of the Dying Gladiator . 
Wade submitted with delight to this treatment . 
`` Who would not break his head , '' he thought , `` to have these delicate fingers plying about him , and this pure , noble face so close to his ? 
he ejaculated with fervor . 
says Wade , entirely satisfied with the tête-à-tête . 
It 's Wade , Richard Wade , Dick Wade ! 
`` I 'm all right now , thanks to my surgeon , '' says Wade . 
He pulled up and clung to his friend . 
`` She has a singularly true face , '' Wade replied , `` and that is the main thing , -- the most excellent thing in man or woman . '' 
`` I like the name , '' says Wade , repeating it . 
Wade laughed . 
Fanny Skerrett gave her hand cordially to Wade , and looked a little anxiously at his pale face . 
Wade said , continuing the quotation , -- `` We effeminate women of the nineteenth century are afraid of broken heads , '' said Fanny . 
`` I enjoy it , '' said Wade . 
She delivered this little speech with a caressing manner which totally fascinated Wade . 
`` Never , '' thought Wade , `` did I see such a compact little casket of perfections . 
`` You need not say it , Wade , -- your broken head exempts you from the business of compliments , '' said Peter ; `` but I see you think my wife perfection . 
Wade , however , remembered her sweet earnestness when she was playing leech to his wound , and chose to take that mood as her dominant one . 
`` She must have been desperately annoyed with bores and boobies , '' he thought . 
`` But , Wade , '' says Peter , `` all this time you have not told us what good luck sends you here to be wrecked on the hospitable shores of my Point . '' 
She acknowledged with a cool bow that she did remember her guardian 's character of Wade . 
Wade could divine easily the meaning of this little mischievous talk . 
His friend Churm had no doubt puffed him furiously . 
`` I am almost ruddy again , '' says Wade . 
And she gave him another little draught to imbibe . 
He took it kindly , for her sake , -- and not alone for that , but for its own respectable sake . 
His recovery was complete . 
His head , to be sure , sang a little still , and ached not a little . 
Perhaps he would , if he had had a trouble to dodge . 
So he began to move about slowly , watching the ladies . 
Presently she wound off a series of perfectly neat ones , and , looking up , pleased with her prowess , caught Wade 's admiring eye . 
Wade was thrilled . 
he cried , in answer to the part of her look which asked sympathy ; and then , in reply to the implied challenge , he forgot his hurt and his shock , and struck into the same figure . 
He tried not to surpass his fair exemplar too cruelly . 
But he did his peripheries well enough to get a repetition of the captivating nod and a Bravo ! 
All her hues were cool and pearly ; while Wade , Saxon too , had hot golden tints in his hair and moustache , and his color , now returning , was good strong red with plenty of bronze in it . 
`` Thank you , '' he replied . 
A civil nothing ; but meaning managed to get into his tone and look , whether he would or not . 
Which he perceiving , on his part began to feel guilty . 
So , without troubling themselves to analyze their feelings , they found a piquant pleasure in skating together , -- she in admiring his tours de force , and he in instructing her . 
said Mrs. Skerrett , pointing to the other pair skating , he on the backward roll , she on the forward , with hands crossed and locked ; -- such contacts are permitted in skating , as in dancing . 
She can not disdain Wade . 
He carries too many guns for that . 
He is just as fine as she is . 
He was a hero when I first knew him . 
His face does not show an atom of change ; and you know what Mr. Churm told us of his chivalric deeds elsewhere , and how he tamed and reformed Dunderbunk . 
No , Fanny dear , I read Wade 's experience in my own . 
I do not feel very much concerned about him . 
He is big enough to take care of himself . 
Meanwhile Wade had been fast skating into the good graces of his companion . 
Wade 's last turn brought him to the very spot of his tumble . 
said he . 
`` Here is the oar that tripped me , with ` Wade , his mark , ' gashed into it . 
If I had not this '' -- he touched Miss Damer 's handkerchief -- `` for a souvenir , I think I would dig up the oar and carry it home . '' 
`` You will join us again to-morrow on the river , '' said Mrs. Skerrett , as Wade rose to go . 
Wade departed and marked this halcyon day with white chalk , as the whitest , brightest , sweetest of his life . 
When Mr. Churm was not by , they all claimed the honor of having discovered Wade , or at least of having been the first to appreciate him . 
They all invited him to dinner , -- the others at their houses , Sam Gwelp at his club . 
They passed a unanimous vote of the most complimentary confidence in Wade , approved of his system , forced upon him an increase of salary , and began to talk of `` launching out '' and doubling their capital . 
Churm and Wade had a hearty laugh over the absurdities of the Board and all their vague propositions . 
Wade laughed . 
It 's quite a romance already , Richard , my boy ! 
Wade , loaded with the blessings of his Directors , took the train next morning for Dunderbunk . 
As the train rattled along by the river , Wade could see that the thin ice was breaking up everywhere . 
At Yonkers a down train ranged by the side of Wade 's train , and , looking out he saw Mr. and Mrs. Skerrett alighting . 
He jumped down , rather surprised , to speak to them . 
`` Do , Wade ! 
Wade promised to `` shine substitute '' at his friend 's board , and took his place again . 
Until now , the beat of its wheels , like the click of an enormous metronome , had kept time to jubilant measures singing in Wade 's brain . 
He was hurrying back , exhilarated with success , to the presence of a woman whose smile was finer exhilaration than any number of votes of confidence , passed unanimously by any number of conclaves of overjoyed Directors , and signed by Brummage after Brummage , with the signature of a capitalist in a flurry of delight at a ten per cent dividend . 
But into this joyous mood of Wade 's the thought of death suddenly intruded . 
He could not keep a picture of death and drowning out of his mind . 
As the train sprang along and opened gloomy breadth after breadth of the leaden river , clogged with slow-drifting files of ice-blocks , he found himself staring across the dreary waste and forever fancying some one sinking there , helpless and alone . 
He seemed to see a brave , bright-eyed , ruddy boy , venturing out carelessly along the edges of the weakened ice . 
But whenever this inevitable picture grew before Wade 's eyes , as the drowning figure of his fancy vanished , it suddenly changed features , and presented the face of Mary Damer , perishing beyond succor . 
Of course he knew that this was but a morbid vision . 
Yet that it came at all , and that it so agonized him , proved the force of his new feeling . 
He had not analyzed it before . 
Men like Wade , strong , healthy , earnest , concentrated , straightforward , isolated , judge men and women as friends or foes at once and once for all . 
He had recognized in Mary Damer from the first a heart as true , whole , noble , and healthy as his own . 
A fine instinct had told him that she was waiting for her hero , as he was for his heroine . 
As the train rattled round the curve below the tunnel through Skerrett 's Point , Wade could see his skating course of Christmas-Day with the ladies . 
Wade almost dreaded lest his vision should suddenly realize itself , and he should see his enthusiastic companion of the other day sailing gracefully along to certain death . 
Mrs. Damer 's gracious reply informed Wade `` that she should be charmed to see him at dinner , etc. , and would not fail to transmit his kind warning to Miss Damer , when she returned from her drive to make calls . '' 
She read a little , fitfully , sang fitfully , moved about the house uneasily ; and at last , when it grew late , and she was bored and Wade did not arrive , she pronounced to herself that he had been detained in town . 
It was well understood by this time that the iron Wade made was as stanch as the man who made it . 
An hour before sunset , Bill Tarbox stepped into Wade 's office . 
`` Run down , Perry , '' said Wade , `` to the ` Ambuster , ' and ask Captain Isaac to step up here a moment . 
He tore back to the Foundry , dashing through the puddles , and , never stopping to pick up his cap , burst in upon Wade and Bill Tarbox in the office . 
His dumb terror brought back to Wade 's mind all the bad omens of the morning . 
Wade made for the river . 
This was the moment all his manhood had been training and saving for . 
For this he had kept sound and brave from his youth up . 
As he ran , he felt that the only chance of instant help was in that queer little bowl-shaped skiff of the `` Ambuster . '' 
He had never been conscious that he had observed it ; but the image had lain latent in his mind , biding its time . 
`` Somebody carried off , -- perhaps a woman , '' Wade thought . 
He sprang on board the little steamboat . 
She was swaying uneasily at her moorings , as the ice crowded along and hammered against her stem . 
Wade stared from her deck down the river , with all his life at his eyes . 
For one instant Wade thought that the terrible dread in his heart would paralyze him . 
But in that one moment , while his blood stopped flowing and his nerves failed , Bill Tarbox overtook him and was there by his side . 
Wade put on his cap mechanically . 
This little action calmed him . 
`` Bill , '' said he , `` I 'm afraid it is a woman , -- a dear friend of mine , -- a very dear friend . '' 
`` Find the thole-pins , Bill , while I cut a plug for her bottom out of this broomstick , '' Wade said . 
Wade jumped down on the ice and received her carefully . 
They ran her along , as far as they could go , and launched her in the sludge . 
Wade in the bow could do better . 
He jammed the blocks aside with his boat-hook . 
He dragged the skiff forward . 
He steered through the little open ways of water . 
Wade steered by his last glimpse , -- by the current , -- by the rush of the roaring wind , -- by instinct . 
A dusky mass flung together on a waning rood of ice , -- Wade could see nothing more . 
Thrust , Richard Wade , with your boat-hook ! 
Wade knew his mark , -- the cut of his own skate-iron . 
Wade laid Mary Damer against the thwart . 
He unclasped her stiffened hands . 
She opened her eyes and knew him . 
All about it was , that Miss Damer was safe , and not dangerously frozen , -- and that Wade and Tarbox had carried her up the hill to her mother at Peter Skerrett 's . 
