As the last resort , I determined to go and deliver it to Mr. Ashley , and claim his good offices . 
He lived a considerable distance from the city , but being a man well known , I soon got a direction to his country seat . 
Notwithstanding some symptoms of ennui , which began to creep over me , I felt myself so comfortable that I hardly knew whether to be glad or sorry , when one day a gentleman was ushered into my room , who announced himself as Mr. Ashley . 
`` I just now , '' said he , `` received a letter from an old friend of yours and mine , who says he gave you one to me , and inquires whether I have seen you . 
He looked at me with a mixture of pity and wonder . 
There was an honest freedom , mingled with hearty kindness , about Mr. Ashley , that won my confidence , and after some little struggle with myself I agreed to accompany him home . 
His establishment was large , and he had about him a number of workmen and labourers . 
But I regretted to see that he had made little or no advance in the great plan of perfectibility . 
He paid no regard to the system of perfect equality , except so far as the administration of justice required , and the grand principle of a community of goods , was entirely banished . 
Instead of treating his men and women like machines , he actually put them on the footing of rational beings , accountable for their actions , forgetting entirely that these proceeded from an erroneous system of education , over which they had no control whatever . 
He laughed at the idea of entirely banishing idleness , poverty and crime , and of course the necessity of punishment , by means of any system ever yet invented . 
As to the counteracting principles , he went so far as to say that this was a phrase invented by my master , who by giving new names to old things , had sought to screen the absurdity of his new system , from the eyes of the ignorant . 
Nevertheless , Mr. Ashley was a shrewd , clearsighted man , who had seen much , read much , and reflected much in the course of his life . 
Like all the well educated Americans , I have seen , he had those practical notions of liberty , that are essential to its existence , and which only the habitual enjoyment of it can thoroughly implant in the mind . 
`` The first right of a people , '' said Mr. Ashley to me , in one of our discussions -- `` the first right of a people is that of making their own laws -- their first duty is to obey them . 
`` Your master , as you call him , '' said Mr. Ashley to me , one day that I had advanced the doctrine of perfectibility -- `` your master appears to consider all the vices and crimes of mankind as proceeding from ignorance . '' 
In the main , I do believe that the acquisition of knowledge , unless , '' said Mr. Ashley , smiling , `` it meets with one of your master 's counteracting principles , is favourable to virtue . 
`` O certainly -- there I agree with you perfectly , '' said Mr. Ashley , smiling . 
Mr. Ashley seeing me rather posed , went on . 
`` Call them what you will , '' said Mr. Ashley , `` names do not alter things , nor can all thy master 's jargon about principles and circumstances , disguise the passions and appetites of human nature , from those who are not governed by mere words . 
`` Pardon me , '' said he , `` I believe it has great influence , and that to know our duties , is essentially necessary to the practice of them . 
`` The absence of all temptation to do evil , '' replied I. `` My friend , '' replied Mr. Ashley , `` where there are temptations to do good , there will be temptations to do evil . 
`` Why , I do n't know , '' replied Mr. Ashley -- `` a good intention certainly goes far to sanction a reasonable degree of theoretical absurdity . 
But though weakened I was not overcome , and I exulted from time to time in detecting Mr. Ashley in what I supposed inconsistencies and contradictions . 
`` I do , as usual , '' replied Mr. Ashley , `` to the extent to which he carries it . '' 
In discussing these points Mr. Ashley observed -- `` That the object of my master , in making a perfect equality , and a community of goods , two of the fundamental principles of his system , appeared to be that of withdrawing from his Men Machines three of the great sources of injustice and crime among mankind , to wit , ambition , avarice and envy . 
`` Well , counteracting principles then , '' said Mr. Ashley , good naturedly -- `` the idea , I say , is absurd and preposterous . 
Mr. Ashley was no better pleased with my master 's great principle , `` that all that was necessary to the perfection of society was self-love properly understood . '' 
`` Like all the rest of your master 's principles , '' said he , `` it is alike absurd and dangerous in its application , by being carried to an extreme . 
Mr. Ashley shook his head . 
These arguments , and a variety of others Mr. Ashley from time to time brought forward against my master 's new system , I confess undermined for a time my firm reliance upon its practicability . 
By degrees , I abandoned all present thoughts of joining the new association of which I saw flaming accounts in the public papers , and begged Mr. Ashley to procure me some employment . 
`` With all my heart , '' said he , `` what are you fit for ? 
Accordingly I went into the fields with Mr. Ashley , to assist in some light labours of the field , but I made a poor hand of it . 
One day he set me to driving a cart , and found me about an hour afterwards , standing before the wheel watching till it should begin to go round like a spinning jenney . 
From time to time , he tried me at other occupations , but I know not how it was , I could never get on , for want of the inspiring din , and clattering wheels of the cotton machinery , and was either found quite becalmed in the fields , or watching the motion of a water wheel , belonging to a mill upon the estate . 
At length , however , Mr. Ashley hit upon an expedient , that partly answered the purpose of setting my machinery going . 
He procured a machine called in America , a horse-fiddle , which was placed on a pole in the field where I was to be employed . 
I began to be tired of Mr. Ashley , and he , I believe , became quite tired of me , finding I was proof against his sophistry . 
I determined at once to leave Mr. Ashley , and as I had become convinced that the outside crust of this world was not fitted for my master 's theory , nor my master 's theory for it , decided to try the experiment , and see what the inside would do for us . 
`` Where art thou going , my good friend , '' said Mr. Ashley . 
